EFFECTIVE 2 AUGUST 1990 EXPIRES 9 MAY 1993
SOURCE
iff.
TERM.
No. OF EMPLOYEES
N OMBRE D'EMPLOYfS
1£&.
L.d>
OOLLECITVE AGREEMENT
BETWEEN:
WESTON BAKERIES LIMITED, Orillia, Ontario, hereinafter called
"the Company"
Of the First Part
and
RETAIL, WHOLESALE, BAKERY AND CONFECTIONERY WORKERS' UNION, LOCAL 461, A.F.L. :C.I.O. :C.L.C. hereafter called "the Union"
Of the Second Part
A-RTTCTiE 1 - RECOGNITION
1.01	The Company recognizes the union as the sole collective bargaining agent for all plant employees of the Company in Orillia, Ontario, save and except office staff, sales staff, foremen and these above the rank of foreman, and persons regularly employed for not more than twenty-four (24) hours per week.
ARTICLE 2 - RELATIONSHIP
2.01	There will be no discrimination, interference, restraint or
coercion exercised or practised by the Company or by any of its representatives with respect to any employee because of his merribership	in the union, or connection with the Union, and
membership in the Union, by employees vJro are eligible to join, will not be discouraged.
2.02	There will be no intimidation, interference, restraint or coercion exercised or practised upon enployees of the Company by the Union, or by any of ita members or representatives. There will be no solicitation for membership or other union activity on the premises of the Company during an employee's working hours.
0053403
ARTICLE 3 ~ CHECK-OFF OF UNION DUES
3.01	Employees shall, on being hired, be required to sign authorization to deduct the Union initiation fee and monthly dues from their pay. Union dues will begin to be deducted upon completion of thirty (30) days of work.
The Company will make such deductions frcm earnings on a weekly basis and remit them monthly to a designated official of the Union. Seasonal employees, or those hired for term or task, are excluded from these provisions. However, should a seasonal employee be offered continuous employment similar authorization is required in the thirty (30) day period of offer of continuous employment.
ARTICLE 4 - NO STRIKES OR LOCK-OUTS
4.01	The Company will not cause or direct any lock-out of its employees. The union will not excuse or direct any strike or other collective action which will step or interferewithsewiceor impair efficiency of operations. If such, collective action should be taken, it will instruct the employees to return to wok and perform their duties in the usual manner.
ARTICLE 5 ~ RESERVATION OF MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
5.01	Except wlieie abridged by the terms of this Agreement, the management of the Company's operations and the selection and direction of employees shall continue to be vested with the cempany-
ARITCLE 6 - UNION COMMITTEES AND STEWARDS
6.01	The Union shall have the right to appoint or otherwise select a Committee of not more than four (4) employees.
6.02	The Union shall have the right to appoint or otherwise select a reasonable number of employees of the Company to act as stewards to assist employees in presenting their grievances to representatives of the Company.
6.03	Employees shall not be eligible to act as stewards or members of the Union Committee until after they have completed the probationary period.
ARTICLE 6 ~ UNION COMMITTEES AND STEWARDS - Cont'd
6.04	The Union recognizes that stewards, members of the Union Committee and the other Union officers, have regular duties to perform on behalf of the Company and that such persons will not leave their regular duties without obtaining the permission of their foreman or immediate supervisor. When resuming their regular duties, they will report to their foreman or supervisor, and will give any reasonable explanation which may be requested with respect to their absence. In accordance with this understanding, the Company will compensate employees for time spent in negotiating with the Company and discussing grievances during working hours.
ARTICLE 7 ~ COMPLAINTS AND GRIEVANCES
7.01	If an employee has a complaint he wishes to bring to the attention of the Company, the matter will be taken up with the employee's immediate supervisor. The employee may do this with or without his steward or may request the steward to do it for him. The supervisor will give his reply within twenty-four (24) hours to the person who presented the complaint to him.
7.02	If the reply of the supervisor is not satisfactory to the employee concerned, the complaint may be stated inwritingongrievance forms and submitted, within three (3) working days following the reply of the supervisor, to the Department Head.
7.03	If the reply of the Department Head is not satisfactory to the employee concerned, the grievance shall be submitted, within three (3) working days following the reply of the Department Head, to the Production Manager.
7.04	Within five (5) working days following receipt of a written grievance the production Manager and/or such other persons as may be designated by the Company, will met with the Union Committee to discuss the grievance. The Production Manager, or his designate, will give his reply in writing within five (5) working days after the meeting has been held. At this stage, a full-time officer of the Union may be present, if his presence is requested by either party.
7.05	If the reply of the Production Manager is not satisfactory, the Union Committee may, within ten (10) working days following receipt of the said reply, refer the grievance to arbitration.
7.06	Any of the time allowances provided in this Article may be extended by mutual agreement between the Company and the Union Committee.
7.07	The Company wee/ refuse to consider any complaint or grievance where the circumstances surrounding such occurred more than five (5) working days before the complaint or grievance was brought to the attention of the company.
ARTICLE 7 - CCMELAINIS AND GRIEVANCES - Cont'd
7.08	Any disciplinary notice placed against an employee will be removed from his file after eighteen months from the date of issue, provided no further incidents of a similar or related nature has occurred during that period. (Note: This will exclude the present system on lateness.)
ARTICLE 8 - ARBITRATION
8.01	Any arbitration proceedings under the terms and conditions of this Collective Agreement shall be in accordance with the Ontario Labour Relations Act.
8.02	Each party shall bear the expense of its own nominee and equally bear the expense of the Chairman of the Arbitration Board.
ARTICLE 9 - DISCHARGE CASES
9.01	A claim an employee who has completed the probationary period that he has been unjustly discharged frcm his employment shall be treated as a grievance, if a writtai statement of such grievance is lodged with the production JVfcrago' within three (3) days after the employee ceases to weak for the Company.
9.02	Such special grievance nty be settled by confirming the Company's action in dismissing the employee or by reinstating the employee with full compensation for time lost, or by any other arrangement which is just and equitable in the opinion of the conferring parties.
9.03	When an enployee has been dismissed without notice, he shall have the right to interview his steward for a reasonable period of time before leaving the plant premises.
9.04	Any suspensions or dismissals w i 11 be confirmed in writing by the Company and a copy given to the chief Steward.
ARTICLE 10 - MANAGEMENT GRIEVANCES
10.01	If the Company has a complaint against the union or any of its representatives, it will make such complaint in writing, which will be considered as a grievance ccsnmencing at the production Ifenager's stage.
ARTICLE 11 - SENIORITY
11.01	An employee will be considered on probation and will not be placed on a seniority list until after he has completed forty-five (45) days of work for the Company.
ARTICLE 11 - SENIORITY - Cont'd
11.02	seniority lists based upon the date on which regular and part-time employees corratenced to work for the company shall be established for each department and posted in April and October of each year.
A copy will be given to the Chief Steward.
Seasonal employees or part-time who are offered full time/continucus employment will commence their probationary period cited in 11.01 above commencing from the date of offer of full time employment. At the completion of their probationary period, they shall have their seniority dated back to 50% of their date of continuous employment.
11.03	In cases of promotion or demotion of employees, the reliability, skill, ability and physical fitness of the employee to perform the work shall be the governing factors, and v/here these are relatively equal, seniority shall govern,
11.04	Where it is necessary generally to reduce the working force of the employes, seniority will be the guiding factor so long as it does not prevent the Company from maintaining a working force of employees who are qualified and willing to do the work which is available.
11.05	Members of the Union Committee and Stewards will be retained by the Company in the event of a lay-off affecting their department, so long as there is work available in their respective departments which they are qualified and willing to do, notwithstanding their position on the seniority list.
Temporary work assignments will be filled by recalling laid off employees. Such temporary recalls will be made by contacting the most Senior employee available who is qualified to perform the work without training.
11.06 Employees who are laid off will be retained on the Company1 s seniority list for twelve (12) months if their Company service is less than five (5) years and eighteen months if their service is five (5) or more years, but unless they signify their willingness to return to work within too (2) days after begin requested to do so, and report to work within ten (10) days thereafter, they will forfeit their claim to re-employment by the Company.
11.07	In the event an employee with more than ten (10) years of service is subject to lay-off after exercising displacement rights under the provisions of this Article, and junior employees will be retrained, such employee will be eligible for a retraining assignment. Hie Company will discuss with the Unionandthe
ARTICLE 11 - SENIORITY - Cont'd
employee an appropriate training assignment from among the junior employees to be retrained. Such assignment will be a ten (10) day training period, on mutual agresnent with the Union. At the end of the assignment period, the Company will be the sole determiner as to whether the ertployee is sufficiently qualified to continue in that position.
Any of the above provisions will not allow anemployeetobe retrained or to bump into the Maintenance or Transport Department, unless qualified, as determined by the Company, at the time of transfer under this provision.
11.08	An ertployee promoted to a supervisory position nay be returned to the bargaining unit by the Company with full accumulated seniority and may exercise the same rights as though he had remained in the bargaining Unit, provided he returns to the bargaining Unit within twelve (12) months following his promotion. If returned after a period in excess of twelve (12) months, he shall be credited with his former bargaining Unit Seniority date, however, he shall not be able to exercise his Seniority for job bidding or vacation selection for a period of one year from his return to the bargaining Unit.
ARTICLE 12 ~ LEAVE OF ABSENCE
12.01	Authorized Leave Without Pay:
The Company	grant leave of absence to any ertployee in writing
for legitimate personal reasons. Any person v\ho is absent w i t h such written permission shall not be considered to be laid off, and his seniority shall continue to accumulate during his absence.
Requests for leave of absence shall be made in writing. A copy of letters granting a leave of absence, with conditions outlined, or refusing a request, will be sent to the Union office.
leave of absence to attend Union conventions, courses and conferences will be granted without pay and without loss of seniority provided that notice of at least one (l)week is given to the Company
and provided that not more than two (2) employees are absent for such purposes at any one time.
ARTICLE 12 ~ LEAVE OF ABSENCE - Cont'd
12.02 Bereavement
.Any employee will be granted up to five (5) days leave of absence with pay in the event of the death of his father, mother, step-parents, sister, brother, spouse, father-in-law, mother-in-law or child to make arrangements for and attend the funeral, Only that portion of the five days which would otherwise have been working days will be paid. In the case of death of an employee's brother-in-law, sister-in-law, grandparent, or grandchild three (3) days off without loss of pay will be allowed to attend the funeral. At the discretion of the Company, the five (5) or three (3) days payment in^ include the day immediately following the day of the funeral where travel, distance or similar considerations are involved.
12.03	Jury Duty and Crown Witness
An errployee who is called for jury duty will be paid the difference between the regular rate of pay and the amount he is paid for jury duty. An errployee subpoenaed as a witness for the Crown shall suffer no loss of regular earnings as a result of such action.
12.04	Injuries at Work
Employees who are injured while performing the normal requirements of their job shall be paid a full day's pay for the day of said injury.
12.05	Pregnancy Leave
A female employee will be granted a leave of absence because of pregnancy according to the provisions of the current Employment Standards Act.
ARTICLE 13 ~ BUUETIN BOARDS
13.01 The Company will provide bulletin boards in convenient locations throughout the plants for the union to post notices of its activity. All such notices must be signed by the proper officer of the local union and be submitted to the production Manager, or his authorized representative, for approval before posting,
ARTICLE 14 ~ FOREMEN
14.01 Foremen and other persons outside the bargaining unit shall not normally perform work of the bargaining unit except:
a)	to perform experimental or development work;
b)	to instruct or train new employees;
ARTICLE 14 - FOREMEN - Cont'd
c)	to replace an employee who is late or absent from his place of work;
d)	in cases of emergency.
ARTICLE 15 - SAFETY
15.01	The Union and the Company will cooperate in developing and maintaining the high standards of safety with the objective of reducing and, where possible, eliminating the causes of industrial accidents.
15.02	To this end, a Safety Committee consisting of Union and Management
representatives will meet at regular intervals of not less than once each calendar quarter.
15.03	Recommendations of the Safety Committee will be made to the Production Manager who will study them and reply in writing prior to the next scheduled safety meeting.
ARTICLE 16 - MISCELLANEOUS
16.01	Wherever the male gender is used in this Agreement, the terms shall apply in equal measure to all employes, whether male or female.
16.02	An employee who purchases safety shoes or boots for use on the job will be reimbursed by the Company up to Seventy-Five ($75.00) Dollars per year upon presentation of the receipt for such purposes. Increase to $80 May 9, 1991 and increase to $85 May 9, 1992. Foot protection is mandatory for all enplqyees.
Joint Safety Committee to review and recommend type of foot protection to be appropriate.
ARTICLE 17 - SCHEDULES
17.01	Attached hereto and forming part of this Agreement are the following schedules:
Schedule "A"	- Hours of Wok, Holidays, Overtime and other
Working Conditions
Schedule "B" schedule MC" Schedule "D" Schedule "E"
Job Classifications and Wgp Rages Vacations Employee Benefits Transport Drivers
ARTICLE 18 ~ SEVERANCE PAY
18.01	In the event of the permanent closure of the plant, permanent full-time employees whose employment is terminated w i 11 be paid
severance pay of twenty-five (25) hours at the employee's current rate of pay for each full completed year of continuous service with the Ccmpany, cctnmencing with the second (2nd) year. Employees with five (5) or more years of continuous service will receive one weeks pay per year of service.
No severance pay will be paid to employees who are offered a transfer to other employment that may be provided by the Company
within the radius of fifty (50) miles.
In the event of government regulations being introduced to provide that an employer shall pay severance pay to eitployees, a terminating employee will be paid severance pay either in accordance with government regulations, or in accordance with the scale above, whichever is the greater amount.
ARTICLE 19 - TERMINATION OR lyPDIFICAITON
19.01	This agreement, which supersedes all previous Agreements, shall continue in effect untji—the 9th day of May, 1993, and unless either party gives notice m writing to the other party that amendments are required, or that the party intends terminating this Agreement, then it shall continue in effect until the 9th day of May, 1994, and so on from year to year thereafter.
19.02	Notice that amendments are required, or that either party intends to terminate the Agreement may be given only during a period of not more than ninety (90), ncr less than thirty (30) days prior to May 9, 1993, or any succeeding anniversary date.
19.03	The parties will meet for the purpose of conducting negotiations within twenty (20) days after the giving of such notice.
SIGNED AT ORILLIA, ONTARIO, THIS------DAY OF
1990
FOR THE CCMPANY
FOR THE UNION
SCHEDUIE "A"
hours of mm, etc.
tOR PRODUCTION WORKERS
A-l ERQVISIONAL GUARANTEE
Each regular full time employee who has oonpleted fifty-two (52) weeks of continuous employment with the Company will be given the opportunity to earn each week no less than the equivalent of forty (40) hours pay at his or her straight time rate. To qualify for this quarantee, the employee shall be required to report for work at his or her scheduled starting time each working day, and to perform whatever work the Company has available and assigns to him or her. This provision will not apply in the event that fire, flood, strike, mechanical breakdown or other circumstances beyond the control of the Company prevent the Company from continuing its operations.
In the event an additional shift is required for production (e.g. low run, multi products or varyirg amounts) and such production is insufficient to consistently provide a full week's work, it may be designated as the "additional shift", Such designation will indicate that employees assigned to that shift v/ill enjoy all provisions and benefits of this agreement save the provisional guarantee of forty (40) hours specified above, which will be scaled down to a thirty (30) hour guarantee. (Should a Senior employee be assigned in order that qualified employees are available for such shift, such employee would retain his weekly guarantee subject to his seniority entitlement.)
Regular employees nay elect to be assigned to this shift, however, such election roust be understood to be conditional on the thirty (30) hour guarantee and the employee m y not elect to be
transferred from that shift until either the shift is discontinued and he exercises any displacement rights or, he qualifies under A-3 (job posting).
Nothing in this Schedule shall be interpreted in such a 11u' as
to prevent the Company from laying off employees, provided that those employees who qualify for the provisional guarantee shall not be subject to lay-offs of a duration of less than one waek.
A-2 WORK WEEK
a)	The regular weekly hours shall be forty (40).
b)	The regular weekly hours shall be worked in any five (5) days of the week.
c)	The daily hours, starting and quitting times, and the time of rest periods and lunch periods will be determined by the Company in accordance with production requirements. Any full time regular employee reporting for work at his or her scheduled starting time on any shift will be given the opportunity to earn no less than six (6) hours1 pay for that shift.
Employees will be notified as far in advance as possible of any general change in shift starting times. In the event a shift starting time is advanced on short noticeandthe employee was not notified of such change, he or she shall be given the opportunity to wok the equivalent number of hours scheduled for that shift. VYhm it is necessary to change a shift starting time without twenty-four (24) hours advance notice the reasons for such change will be given to the employees affected and to the appropriate Union Steward.
Shift schedules will be posted each Thursday for the following week.
d)	The lunch period will be one-half (1/2) hour without pay each day. The lunch period will not occur for an employee before he has worked three (3) hours and will occur before he has worked five (5) hours.
e)	Rest periods of ten (10) minutes duration will be provided in the morning and afternoon of each regular work day. When a nine (9) hour production day is requested an additional paid rest period of fifteen (15) minutes will be scheduled in sequence of operations commencing after eight (8) hours have been worked.
f)	In the event the Company fails to schedule an employee's lunch or rest period in accordance w it h sub-sections (d) and (e), above, the Company will pay the errployee concerned one-half (1/2) hour at his or her regular rate of pay. This obligation on the part of the company will not apply if the sequence of lunch and/or rest periods is disrupted, due to the unscheduled absence of another employee assigned to the shift, or to the failure of another employee to return from his or her lunch or rest period in time.
SCHEDULE "A" - Cont'd
A-3 JOB VACANCIES
a)	Job vacancies including those in General help "A", shall be
posted on plant bulletin boards for not less than four (4) working days.	Employees may apply for vacant jobs to the
appropriate department supervisor. Such applications will be considered and w i 11 be granted or refused on the basis stated in paragraph 3 of Article 11 of this Agreement. If the most senior applicant is not given the posted vacancy he or she will be told the reason(s) within a period of three (3) working days following the selection. The Chief Steward will receive a copy of all posted job vacancies.
b)	The successful applicant shall be given the job rate provided he or she adequately performs all the duties of the position. Should the applicant not meet the above he or she shall return to his or her previous position. The successful applicant shall be given a trial period of up to five (5) working days.
c)	An employee who is transferred as a result of the job posting
provision shall not be eligible to apply for another posted vacancy for a period of one year. This does not apply to Company initiated transfers.
A-4 OVERTIME PROVISIONS
a)	The Company may require employees to perform overtime work in excess of their regularly assigned hours. However, employees will not be required to work more than three (3) overtime hours ii excess of their regular shift. Maintenance enployees will be exempt from this limitation
b)	An employee shall not be forced to take time off for overtime
worked.
c)	overtime at the rate of time and one-half (1 1/2) will be paid for all time worked in excess of eight (8) hours daily. Overtime shall be on the above daily basis or after forty (40) hours of work in a week, but not both. In a week in which a Paid Holiday occurs, weekly overtime shall be paid for time worked in excess of thirty-two (32) hours. In a week in which a double holiday is observed, weekly overtime shall be paid for time worked in excess of twenty-four (24) hours.
d)	An employee will be paid overtime i f required t o work on his day off, provided he completes his regular work week.
SCHEDULE "A" - Cont'd
e) Meal Allowance:	Employees who wok ten (10) hours or more in
a day will be paid a meal allowance of four dollars and seventy-five cents ($4.75), increased to five dollars ($5.00) effective May 9,	1991 and five dollars and fifty cents
($5.50) My 9, 1992.
A-5 CALL-IN PAY
If an employee is required to return to work after finishing his
shift and leaving the Company premises, the employee shall be paid at least an amount equivalent to four (4) hours pay at the aiplcyee's regular hourly rate.
A-6 HOLIDAYS
1
2
a)
b)
c)
The following days will be recognized as holidays regardless of the day on which they fall.
New Year's Efy Good Friday Victoria Day Dominion Day Civic Holiday
Labour Day Thanksgiving Day Christmas Day Boxing Day
subject to the discretion and control of the Company, the above holidays will be celebrated either on the day they occur, or during the week of the holiday.
Employees will be paid for the above holidays or the days celebrated in lieu thereof, provided:
They have completed thirty (30) days of wok for the Company.
They have worked the required shifts immediately preceding and
following the holiday or the day celebrated in the lieu thereof.
Except:
a)	Death in his or her immediate family
b)	Being granted written permission by the Supervisor to be absent on either or both of the said shifts
c)	Lay off on either or both of the said shifts only
d)	Where a verified personal illness for not more than five (5) days affects either or both of the qualifying days.
d)	Pay for the holidays will be at an employee's regular hourly rate of pay multiplied by eight (8) hours or ten (10) hours for those who regularly work a four (4) day ten, (10) hour per day work week.
SCHEDULE "A" - Cont'd
e)	In the event of a paid statutory holiday to which he would otherwise be entitled falls within an employee1 s vacation period, he will be given a day off with pay in lieu thereof at a time mutually agreed upon between the errployee and his supervisor.
The supervisor will keep a record of this day for future reference.
f)	Employees required to work on the day publicly celebrated as
the holiday for those days listed in A-6 a) above, will be paid at the rate of time and one-half (11/2) for such work. There shall be no pyramiding of hours paid at time and one-half (1	1/2) i.e. no interpretation of this Article in
conjunction with A-4, Overtime Provisions, shall require the Company to pay the time and one-half (1 1/2) rate more than once for any hour or hours waked in a week.
g)	"Floater1* Holiday Each full time regular employee shall be entitled to a "floater" paid holiday each year, and such holiday to be scheduled by mutual agreement between individual employees and the Company. The supervisor will keep a record of this day for future reference.
h)	Wbae an errployee works on a paid holiday he or she will get time and one half (1 1/2) for such work. The holiday pay will be retained and he or she will be given a day off w i th said pay at a time mutually agreed to with the errployee. The supervisor will keep a record of this day for future reference.
As of December 31 of each year, the unused days in the 1st paragraph will either be taken in January, February, or March or be paid.
A-7 UNIFORMS
a) "Inside" plant employees who axe employed on a regular full time basis will be supplied at Company expense clean sets of uniforms for wear in the plant during their working hours.
RrHKnTTTE »B"
JOB CIASSIFICaJIOKS AND WAGE RATES
B-l a) The Conpany will classify employees and will pay the appropriate hourly rates as set out below.
May 9	May 9 May9
1990	1991	1992
Dough Mixer "A"
Dough Mixer "B"
Wrapping Machine Operator Oven Operator Divider & Moulder Relief Pan Greaser
K
Shipper
Receiver
Sanitation

yv\
y General Help "A" .h Y General Help "B" >1 ’ Maintenance Electrician Maintenance Mechanic ♦Building Maintenance

$ 13.53 13.39 13.51 13.37
13.33
13.33 13.03
13.33
13.33 12.90 12.80 12.56 13.83 14.08 13.23
$ 14.23 14.09 14.21 14.07
14.03
14.03 13.73
14.03
14.03 13.60 13.50 13.26 14.53 14.78 13.93
$ 14.88 14.74 14.86 14.72
14.68
14.68 14.38
14.68
14.68 14.25 14.15 13.91 15.18 15.53 14.58
b) The minimum and hiring rates for the above classifications will be fifty (50) cents below the maximum rate shown, a new employee will receive an adjustment of twenty-five (25) cents per hour after each thirty (30) days of work until his maximum jab rate is reached.
c) in the event new classifications are introduced, the Company will immediately notify the Union.
d) head Hand An employee designated as, and assuming the responsibility of, Lead Hand will be paid one dollar ($1.00) an hour over and above his or her regular earnings while so employed.
e)	Eligible maintenance employees will be reimbursed to a maximum of one hundred and sixty dollars ($160.00) per calendar year for replacement or repairs of personally owned tools broken or damaged in use v\hai performing work for the Company.	This amount will increase to $170.00 per calendar
year effective My 9,	1991 and $180.00 per calendar year
effective My 9, 1992.
B-2 SEASONAL EMPLOYEES
Employees hired between My 1st and September 15th for seasonal work will be considered seasonal employees. Their hourly rate of pay shall be determined by the Company and they will have no access to or coverage from the Collective Agreement.
B-3 RATES OF PAY WHEN EMPLOYEES ARE TRANSFERRED FROM ONE JOB TO ANOTHER
a)	An employee who is temporarily transferred to a higher rated job for the convenience of the Company in order to meet production requirements shall be paid thehigherj obrate provided he works more than one (1) continuous hour on the higher rated job, and further provided he is qualified to perform the job.
b)	An employee who is temporarily transferred to a lower category shall retain his regular rate of pay.
c)	An employee who is transferred at own request or who accepts transfer rather than be laid off shall be paid the rate of the job to which transferred.
B-4 NIGHT PREMIUM
A premium of sixty-five (65) cents per hour shall be paid to inside errployees, i.e., in production and related classifications, for each hour worked between 9 p.m. and 6 am. This premium is not to be used in calculation overtime rates. The rate shall increase to seventy (70) cents effective My 9, 1992.
B-5 PART-TIME EMPIDYFFS
Employees who normally work less than 40 hours a week shall be considered part-time. They shall receive an hourly rate of pay of $10.10 an hour. Effective My 9,	1991 this shall increase to
$10.45 per hour and effective My 9, 1992 shall increase to $10.80 per hour.
While part-time employees are not covered under the Collective Agreement they shall:
1. a) receive 1	1/2 their hourly rate for hours worked in
excess of 40 in a week.
b) the following will be recognized as holidays regardless of the day on which they fall.
New Years Day Good Friday Victoria Day Dcaninion Day Civic Holiday
Labour Day Thanksgiving Day Christinas Day Boxing Day
c)	Part-time employees will receive holiday pay based on the requirements of the Employment standards Act
d)	c-6Part-time eitployees eligible for holiday pay must normally work forty (40) hours per week for 50% of the weeks over a twelve (12) month period.
2.	receive first consideration for full-time vacancies.
3.	receive a payment of twenty-five cents an hour in lieu of benefits for each hour worked.
SCHEDULE "C"
VACATIONS
C-l vacations with pay will be granted to employees on the following basis:
a)	Under five (5) years - in accordance with the Employment standards Act.
b)	Five (5) years of continuous service - Three (3) weeks
c)	Ten (10) years of continuous service - Four (4) weeks
d)	Seventeen (17) years of continuous service - Five (5) weeks
e)	Twenty-four (24) years of continuous service - Six (6) weeks
Any employee qualifying for additional vacation entitlement in 1935 will not use the additional entitlement to upset any already existing or agreed to vacation schedules.
C-2 continuous service for the purpose of computing vacations with pay will be calculated up to 30th June of the year in which vacations are granted.
C-3 Payments for vacations shall be at the rate of two percent (2%) of an employee's earnings for each week of vacation the employee is entitled to receive. Vacation pay will be based on the previous year's T-4 earnings and will not include taxable benefits.
C-4 Under normal conditions, vacations will be granted on the basis of seniority - i.e. those with the greatest seniority shall have the choice of vacation dates. All employees will receive their first two (2) weeks choice of vacations before other employees select their third or further weeks vacation.	However, the Company
reserves the right to alter vacation dates if it becomes necessary to do so in order to maintain a qualified working force. Vacation lists will be posted not later than March 1st of each year and will be declared closed by March 31st. Any changes thereafter shall be only by mutual agreement.
C-5 An employee who is entitled to two (2) weeks vacation will, wherever possible, receive the second week of vacation consecutive to the first week. An employee who is entitled to three (3), four (4), five (5) or six (6) weeks vacation will be granted the third, fourth, fifth, or sixth week at the discretion of the Company and not necessarily in conjunction with the first two (2) weeks, or with each other.
06	Employees will not be allowed t o waive their vacation claims and have them accumulated from year to year.
07	Employees shall receive their vacation pay prior to going on vacation.
SCHEDULE "D" EMPLOYEE BENEFITS
Full time actively employed regular employees under age sixty-five (65) at the Company's Orillia Plant are covered for the following benefits from the first day of the calendar month immediately following the completion of forty-five (45) days of work:
100% Company Paid
a)	O.H.I.P.
b)	Group Life Insurance - effective Sept. 1/90 - $16,000.00
-	effective May 9/91	~ $17,000.00
-	effective My 9/92	— $18,000.00
c)	Accidental Death & Dismemberment - same as above
d)	The Temporary Disability Benefit will be sixty-six and two thirds percent (66 2/3%) of normal earnings (i.e. rate times normal work schedule) to a maximum equal tothecurrent U.I.C. maximum benefits on the 1/1/4/39 basis (first day of accident, first day of hospitalization, fourth day of illness for 39 weeks) followed by the fifteen (15) week U.I.C. entitlement period and the further fifty (50) week period benefit. It is understood that any recovery under wa^p loss replacement submissions would be forthcoming to the Company,
e)	Extended Health Care, including Prescription Drugs at 100% after deductible of Ten (10) Dollars (single), and designated Major Medical benefits at eighty percent (80%).
f)	Dental Cate Plan (pays one hundred percent (100%) of
designated basic benefits and fifty percent (50%) of designated electives) will be at the current O.D.A. Schedule.	The maximum will be One Thousand Dollars
($1,000.00). per claimant per year.
g)	The Optical Plan will provide one (l)pair of prescribed glasses to a maximum of one hundred and twenty Dollars ($120.00) every two (2) years for eligible eitployees.
Eligible dependants of the above eitployees are also covered for:
O.H.I.P.
Extended Health Care including Prescription Drugs Cental Care Plan Optical Plan
SOTFnjLE "E" TRANSPORT EMPLOYEES
E-l The regular weekly hours shall be worked in any five (5) days of the week. The Company shall continue its present practice regarding operating on a basis of four (4) day transport runs where
practically possible.
E-2 Overtime at the rate of time and one-half (11/2) will apply to the
classification of Transport Drivers for all hours worked in excess of forty (40) hours in a week. In a week in which a paid holiday occurs, weekly overtime shall be paid for time worked in excess of thirty-two (32) hours, ard in a week in which a double holiday is observed for time worked in excess of twenty-four (24) hours.
E-3 Meal Allowance:	Employees who work ten (10) hours or more in a day
will be paid a meal allowance of four dollars and seventy five cents ($4.75). Effective My 9,	1991 that rate shall be five
dollars ($5.00). Effective May 9,	1992 the rate shall be five
dollars and fifty cents ($5.50).
E-4	UNIFORMS
a)	The present practice regarding the supplying and cost sharing
of uniforms for Transport Drivers will be continued. However, each regular full time Transport Driver will be paid an allowance of One Dollar and Seventy-Five Cents ($1.75) per week toward the cost of cleaning of his uniform, this amount to be accumulated and paid on or about December 15th of each year.
b)	The cost sharing for Transport Drivers will be:
Seventy-five Percent (75%) Company Twenty-five Percent (25%) Employee
E—5	SCHEDULE BIDDING
If the majority of the Transport Drivers on bid runs (includes driver working in shipping paid transport rate) indicate to the Company in writing that they wish to do so, they shall be permitted
in January of each year to submit bids for the regular daily transport trips, and Transport Drivers with the greatest seniority shall have the first opportunity to make a selection at that time.
Transport Drivers will also be permitted to bid on runs when scheduled runs are discontinued or when .scheduled runs are added or when major charges are made to scheduled runs.
E-6 The Company will pay the Transport Drivers the following hourly
Effective May 9, 1990 $14.10 Effective May 9, 1991 $14.80 Effective May 9, 1992 $15.45
MEMORANDUM
The parties agree that the following items represent full and final resolution of all matters outstanding between them and will unanimously recommend acceptance to their principals.
The current collective agreement shall be renewed and w i 11 continue in effect until May 9, 1990 with the following additions:
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
vacation pay will be based on the previous year's T-4 earnings. Increase the meal allowance to $4.50.
The supervisor will record the day off mutually agreed to with the employee for future day off.
Mxe transport related items to a new Schedule "E".
Delete the November 29, 1985 letters of understanding.
Male the appropriate changes where contract should read "production manager"
Amend A-3	(c) to include the understanding that a transfer
initiated by the Company will not be considered as a successful bid.
In 18.01 change 3rd year to 2nd year.
Amend to provide a tool allowance increase to $135 effective My 8, 1988 and $150 effective 6, 1989.
Provide a general wsye increase of 40 cents per hour effective the date of ratification. Effective My 8, 1988 a further 40 cents per hour. Effective xney 6, 1989 a further increase of 40 cents per hour. Provide on the date of signing a retroactive payment for all full-time employees on the payroll of 40 cents per hour for each hour worked between IVty 9, 1987 and the date of ratification.
The attached definitions on seasonal and part-time errployees will be incorporated into the Collective Agreement.
Add the attached letters of understanding.
In A-8 add the following:	"Transport Drivers will also be
permitted to bid on runs when scheduled runs are discontinued or when scheduled runs are added or when major changes are made to scheduled runs."
In 12.02 change from 2 t o 3 days.
Amend A-3-B to allow for a trial period of up to five working days. Delete B-5 from Collective Agreement.
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
Signed this______ Dfy of
at Orillia, Ontario 1990
For the Union
For the Company
Seasonal
DEFINITIONS
Employees hired between My 1 and September 15 for seasonal work w i 11 be considered seasonal enplcyees. This hourly rate of pay shall be determined by the Company and they will have no access to or coverage from the Collective Agreement.
Part-Time
Employees who normally work less than 40 hours a week shall be considered part-time. They shall receive an hourly rate of pay of $8.75 an hour. Effective My 8, 1988 this shall increase to $9.00 per hour and effective May 6, 1988 shall increase to $9.25 per hour.
While part-time enployees are not covered under the Collective Agreement they shall:
1) Receive 1 1/2 their hourly rate for hours worked in excess of 40 in a week.
2. Shall receive a payment of twenty-five cents an hour in lieu of benefits for each hour worked.
WESTDN BAKERIES LIMITED
HEAD OFFICE
22 ST. CLAIR AVENUE EAST, SUITE 301 TORONTO, ONTARIO M4T 2S3 Telephone: 416-923-2205
August 3, 1990
Mr. Richard Woodruff Business Agent
Retail, Wholesale, Bakery and Confectionery Workers' Union Local 461 15 Gervais Drive Dan Mills, Ontario M3C 1Y8
Dear Richard:
This letter, which is separate and apart from the collective Agreement, shall be your assurance that:
within two weeks of the ratification date of this Agreement, Kevin Tracey and Bill Fell will meet with errployee representatives to discuss and implement ways to reduce the levels of overtime.
Yours truly,
Kevin Tracey
General Manager
WESTON BAKERIES LIMITED
HEAD OFFICE
22 ST. CLAIR AVENUE EAST, SUITE 301 TORONTO, ONTARIO M4T 2S3 Telephone: 416-923-2205
August 3, 1990
Mr. Richard Woodruff Business Agent
Retail, Wholesale, Bakery and confectionery Workers' Union local 461 15 Gervais Drive Dear Mills, Ontario M3C 1Y8
Dear Richard:
,, This l pttpr of understanding which is senar-ate 3rd apart form the Collective Agreement, will confirm the understanding1 reached at
negotiations.
In scare circumstances transport drivers may have to wait for their loads. When this happens, they will be required to assist in loading their trucks.
W e would not require the driver to perform other work on the dock while waiting for their load. In the event of a delay beyond the control of the Company as outlined in A-l of the Collective Agreement, drivers will be advised of possible delays in scheduled starting times on a daily basis.
Yours truly
Bill Fell
Distribution Manager
WESTDN BAKERIES LIMITED
HEAD OFFICE
22 ST. CLAIR AVENUE EAST, SUITE 301 TORONTO, ONTARIO M4T 2S3 Telephone: 416-923-2205
August 3, 1990
Mr. Richard Woodruff Business Agent
Retail Wholesale, Bakery and confectionary Workers1 Union Local 461 15 Gervais Drive Don Mills, Ontario M3C 1Y8
Dear Richard:
This letter, which is separate and apart frcm the collective Agreement, shall be your assurance that:
The Company will meet with the Union to discuss the Maintenance Electrician rate if required during the term of the agreement.
Yours truly,
K. Tracey
General Manager
WESTDN BAKERIES LIMITED
HEAD OFFICE
22 ST. CLAIR AVENUE EAST, SUITE 301 TORONTO, ONTARIO M4T 2S3 Telephone: 416-923-2205
August 3, 1990
Mr. Richard Woodruff Business Agent Retail Wholesale, Bakery and Confectionary Workers' Orion Local 461 15 Gervais Drive Den Mills, Ontario M3C 1Y8
This letter, which is separate and apart from the Collective Agreement, shall be your assurance that:
The Union will be notified of part-time rate and will have the right to question said rate.
Yours truly,
K. Tracey
General Manager
WESTDN BAKERIES LIMITED
HEAD OFFICE
22 ST. CLAIR AVENUE EAST, SUITE 301 TORONTO, ONTARIO M4T 2S3 Telephone: 416-923-2205
August 3, 1990
Mr. Richard Woodruff Business Agent
Retail, Wholesale, Bakery and confectionery Workers' Union local 461 15 Gervais Drive Don Mills, Ontario M3C 1Y8
Dear Mr. Richard:
At the recently concluded negotiations at the Orillia Plant, the following were mutually agreed.
1.	As in the past, should the funeral of a close relative or friend of an employee be held on a work day, the employee could be granted a leave of absence for the day, without pay, upon reasonable request.
2.	The present practice of offering extra trips that occur on an unscheduled basis to the most seniordriver available and willing, will continue.
3.	A discipline procedure concerning lateness has teen derived, copy attached, and will be posted.
Uniforms
4.	As discussed, the Production Manager or his designate may provide additional uniform issues, at his discretion, owing to considerations such as heavy and prolonged humidity or production schedule, extraordinary cleanup or maintenance assignments, etc.
..2/
- 2 -
seasonal Employees
5.	Persons hired for term or task (e.g. summer peak season) will be advised of their status and sign such recognition. Near the end of the season (e.g. a week or two prior to labour Day weekend), the Production Manager will discuss with the Chief Steward what is known of the remaining manpower requirement, how long and which seasonal help will be retained, and what postings or displacements will be required. The seniority status of offers of full time employment to seasonal help is outlined in 11.02.
Peak Season Assignments
6.	Employees who accept temporary assignments during peak season production, will return to their former positions at expiry of the temporary assignments.
Lead Hand
7.	When a person is temporarily appointed to the position of Lead hard for a period in excess of three months, his job will be posted as a temporary vacancy.
Yours truly,
Kevin Tracy General Manager
KT:nrib