WESTON BAKERIES LIMITED Regina, Saskatchewan
- and -
THE BAKERY, CONFECTIONERY AND TOBACCO WORKERS ’ INTERNATIONAL UNION LOCAL NO. 389, SASKATCHEWAN
Effective:	15 March 1993
Expiry:	15 March 1996
cont.racts\ reg-pl t
ooS^k.05 )
Article 32 Expiration of Agreement
Letters of Understanding	_
Signing space for both Parties
COLLECTIVE_______A Q R E E M £ .H.I
BETWEEN
WESTON BAKERIES LIMITED (Regina, Moose Jaw and Saskatoon, Saskatchewan) (hereinafter referred to as 'the Company')
and
THE BAKERY, CONFECTIONERY AND TOBACCO WORKERS'
INTERNATIONAL UNION LOCAL NO. 389,
Saskatchewan, of the City of Regina in the Province of Saskatchewan (hereinafter referred to as 'the Union')
Article 1 - UNION RECOGNITION!
1.01	The Company recognizee the Union as the sole collective bargaining agency for the employees covered by this Agreement during the life of this Agreement.
1.02	This Agreement applies to all employees employed by the Company under the jurisdiction of its Bakery in each area designated above, but does not apply to employee8 employed as Office Staff or to Company officials who act in a confidential or supervisory capacity. The Company shall, upon the written request of the Union, send to the Union a list of a Company officials so acting, and will indicate by appropriate job titles, the nature and extent of their authority,
1.03	Recognized supervisors and foremen who are not part of the bargaining unit will not perform work that is performed by regular employees within the bargaining unit, except:
a ) when performing development or experimental work;
b)	when checking production on any operation;
c)	when employees are not available for work due to being late for work or absent from the Plant;
d)	in cases of emergency.
NOTE:	The terms of this section shall be subject to the grievance
procedure.
1.04	Where a vacancy occurs, the Company agrees to inquire whether any Union members are available before engaging non-union help. It is clearly understood that there is no obligation on the part of the Company regarding their final select i on.
1.05	Where used in this Agreement, the term 'emergency* shall be defined as any circumstance occurring which is beyond the control of the Company.
1.06	Wherever the male pronoun is used, it shall be deemed to include the female pronoun, and vice versa.
ARTICLE 2 - UNION, DISCRIMINATION
2.01	No employee shall be discriminated against for being a member of the Union or taking part in Union affaire,
2.02	The Company will permit the Business Agent or officially appointed representatives of the Union to enter the various departments of the Company's plant during working hours in order that they may attend to the business affaire of the Union provided, however, that none of them unduly take8 up the time of the employees at work and that each such representative, will, as a matter of courtesy, contact the Manager or Production Manager on entering the plant.
ARTICLE____- UNICN SECURITY
3.01	All employees shall remain members in good standing with the Union ae a condition of employment. New employees hired after the date of this Agreement shall be advised of this requirement and shall, as of the first day of their employment, file a post-dated application to join the Union thirty (30) days later. The Company shall forward the poet-dated application to the Union at the same time aO the monthly dues, etc.
3.02	The negotiating Committee is a separate entity from the Grievance Committee and will deal with only such matters as are properly the subject of the negotiations, including proposals Cor the renewal car modification of this Agreement at the proper time.
The Union will not question the dismissal of any employee employed for less than thirty (30) working days.
ARTICLE 4 - DEDUCTION OF THE UNION DUES FROM WAGES;.
4.01	Upon the individual request, in writing, of any employee, the
Company shall deduct any pay on or before the 15th of each month out of the wages due to sucn employee to the person designated by the Union to receive the same, the Union dues, initiation fees, fines and assessments of such employee, and the Company shall furnish to the Union the names of the employees who have given such authority, also the names of the employees who have left the service of the Company. The Company will include an employees union dues on their T-4.
ARTICLE .5.. - LEAVE. .QF_ ABSENCE i
5.01	Leave of absence without pay, may be granted to any employee for a good and sufficient reason satisfactory to the Company without forfeiture of seniority.
5.02
5.03
Employees who are elected or appointed to do Union work shall be granted leave of absence without pay and without loss cf seniority for such purpose by mutual agreement between the Company and the Union. It is understood that such leave shall not impair the smooth operation of the business and that at lease 3 weeks notice shall be given unless in the case of emergency.
Special leave of absence for a period not to exceed three (3) days, with pay, shall be granted by the Company in cased of pressing emergency. Pressing emergency shall oe confined to casejUpf sickness, deatli,'or accident to tFie 'Immediate family oCJvfKr. *	,*<;u
*— Jai	~ CLcxAjg.	^
employee. The immediate family is limited to mother, father, husband, wife, eon, daughter, brother, or sister of the employee. Employees receiving special leave with pay under this sub-article may be required to produce a Doctor's certificate or some other authorized verification satisfactory to the Company before receiving such pay. In the case of bereavement in the immediate family, additional leave of absence shall be granted without pay, if required and requested. In the case of the death of a father-in-law, mother-in-law, grandchild, or grand parents, one (1) working day off with pay will be allowed to attend the funeral.
ARTICLE 6 - HOURS OF work (BAKERY EMPLOYEES! l
6.01	Thirty-six and one-half (36 1/21 hours or less shall constitute a week's work made up of five (5) working days; three (3) days at seven and one-half (7 1/2) hours and two (2) day8 at seven (7) hours. Overtime at the rate of time and one-half (1 1/2) shall be paid over the regulation hours in any one day, or over thirty-six and one-half (36 1/21 hours in any one week, except in weeks where public holidays occur, when the weekly hours ahall be reduced by seven and one-half (7 1/21 in a week where one (1) public holiday occurs, and the weekly hours will be reduced by fifteen (15) in a week where two (2) public holidays occur. Employees will be notified as far ahead as possible when overtime is required and will be given a minimum of two (2) hours notice of such overtime except in cases of emergency. Also, except in cases of emergency, employees may not be required to work overtime providing management can get another qualified employee to perform the work required.
6.02	a) Shift schedules showing starting time6 and anticipated finishing times will be posted sixty (60) hours in advance of becoming effective, Except in cases of emergency, forty-eight (48) hours notice will be given of any change in scheduled shifts,
b)	Days off Under present conditions, production employees, maintenance employees, Sanitation persons, and Thrift Store employees, shall have two (2) consecutive days off, either Friday and Saturday or Saturday and Sunday, or Sunday and Monday.
c)	Employees who are not granted two (2) regular shifts off together each week, will be paid a premium of one dollar and five cents (1.05c) per hour for each hour worked between 12:01 am and llsS9 pm each Sunday. The aforementioned premiums shall also apply to all hours worked on a Monday Statutory Holiday. This shall bmrnie $1.10 per hour effective March IS, 1991 and $1.15 per hour effective March 15, 1992.
6.03	All employees shall have at least twelve (12) hours off between shifts daily, and thirty-six (36) hours off in the event of their day off except in the case of emergency.
6.04	If an employee ie required to work on hie scheduled day off, the employee shall be paid at the rate of double time for the hours, so worked on said day. Any employee not wishing to work on their scheduled day off shall place their name on a list to be revised every six (6) months.
6.05	Any employee who works on hie scheduled day off shall not be
required nor scheduled to take another day off that work week.
6.06

6.07
6.08
6.09
Not less than one-half hour, and not more than one hour shall be allowed between the third and fifth hours of work for meals. Mealtime is not to be considered as working time. No employees shall be required to remain on the premises during the luncn period.
All employees shall alternate between night and day shifts,
There shall be no split shifts, except in case cf emergency requiring a shut-down exceeding two (2) hours.
Employees called to work will be paid for not less than four (4) hours.
6.10 No dividerman shall be required to commence work before 8:00 pm
except that this ahall not apply in Christmas and New Year's weeks. Effective March IS, 1992 no aividerman shall be required to commence work before 7:00 pm.
ARTICLE 7 - PUBLIC HOLIDAY.!.
7.01	'Public Holiday' shall mean and include any of the following days:
New Year's Day	Canada Day	Remembrance Day
Good Friday	Labour Day	Christmas Day
Victoria Day	Thanksgiving	Day	Boxing Day
and any other day when proclaimed by Federal, Provincial or civic authority in the area; and whenever a holiday falls on a Sunday, the expression 'public holiday' includes the following day.
7.03 The Company may substitute another working day within the same week *	the public holiday occurs unless mutually agreed otherwise.
ARTICLE 8 - VACATIONS
8.01	Vacations with pay shall be granted by the Company as follows:
8.02
8.03
a)	one (1) year of continuous
b)	Eight (8) years of *	*
c) Thirteen (13) years •	•
d) Eighteen (18) years *	*
e)	Twenty-three (23)	■	*
service - three (3) weeks four (4) weeks five (5) weeks six (6) weeks seven (7) weeks
Gross earnings for purposes of calculating vacation pay shall be those earnings sat out in an employee's T-4 slip for the prior year to the year in which the vacation is being taken,
The fourth, fifth, sixth and seventh weeks of vacation, where applicable, ahall be taken at a time convenient to the Company.
I
a)	Employees will submit to the Company a list of the employees and holiday or vacation dates requested in accordance with the seniority list supplied by the Company. In co-operation with the employees, as many employees as possible, consistent with the efficiency of the plant will be permitted vacation or holiday time during the period mm the let of May to the 30th of September. Vacations of persons excluded front the bargaining unit ahall not interfere with vacation8 of employees covered ty this Agreement.
bl Vacation lists will be completed and posted by April 1. After the completed list is posted, should a vacation period beoame vacant, it will be posted immediately to allow interested employees an opportunity to change their vacation dates.
If a public or statutory holiday occurs during an employee's vacation, the employee shall be entitled to one (1) extra day of vacation or he/she may elect to receive one (1) day's pay in lieu thereof. The selection of the extra day ahall be mutually agreed by r.he Supervisor and the employee.
ARTICLE 9 - CQNVENIENCES.1
9.01
9.02
9.03
If the Company decides the wearing of uniforms and crests by the salesmen is obligatory to employment, the Company will provide the salesmen with such uniforms at seventy-five percent, (75%) of the cost to the Company, the uniform becoming the property of the employee. Uniforms are to remain the property of the Company for six (6) months. In the event of any employee leaving the Company, he will be reimbursed at the rate of l/6tb per month for his portion. Employees shall be informed cf the cost of uniform articles, including crestB, and shown a copy of the actual invoice, if requested. Crests shall be part of the Uniform, and the coat sharing formula shall apply. Complete uniform consists of:	1 Heavy
Jacket per 2 yrs., 3 pants, 5 shirts, 2 cape, 2 ties, 1 jacket (light) •
All inside employees shall have uniforms supplied and laundered by the Company. Production employees shall be supplied with a smock for female employees and a shirt and trousers for male employees. All other inside employees shall be supplied with suitable wearing apparel chosen by the Company.
Employees shall Go-operate and assist in maintaining the utilities and conveniences of the plant in good order and to refrain fiom any conduct which would tend to depreciate or render unsanitary any such utensil or convenience.
9.04
9.OS
9.06
9.07
•The employees will leave their benches and machines in clean condition, ready for the next day's work. Smoking to be allowed only in the following placest Dressing Rooms, Lunch Rooms, Coffee Rooms, Salesmen's Cashing-in Room, or any other place authorized by Management.
All deliveries made to route book established customers of a salesman and all orders given to a salesmen on any day shall accrue as commissions to the salesman in or on whose route the delivery is made or the orders given.
Commission shall be paid to the salesman on whose route any bakery products are delivered or supplied to a route book established customer by or from the Company's Plants in Saskatchewan.
No other sales agreement will be entered into for the duration of this Collective Agreement, unless the salesman receives his commission, or regular weekly earnings as the case may be.
9i08 • a) Fifteen (15) minutes' rest period shall be allowed during tho forenoon shift and during the afternoon shift. The foreman will arrange such rest periods as near mid-forenoon shift as possible and as near mid-afternoon shift as possible.
b)	When an employee works overtime he/ehe will be given a fifteen (15) minute rest period before overtime commences, and every two (2) hour period thereafter. In the event that overtime entails two two (2) or more hours the company will provide the employees with a reasonable lunch.
9.09	The company shall have all trucks kept as clean as possible except
’	truck interior8 which shall be the responsibility of the salesman.
9.10	Salesmen will attend sales meetings once per quarter, commencing not later than 4:00 pm. No salesmen shall be obliged to attend meetings on his scheduled day off. The Company shall provide a reasonable meal at this meeting.
ARTTPT.E 10 - RESERVATION OF MANAGEMENT'S RIGHTS:
10.01	Subject: to the provisions of the Agreement, the Union acknowledges that it is the exclusive function of the Company to;
a)	maintain order, discipline and efficiency;
b)	hire, discharge, transfer, promote, demote or discipline employees, provided that a claim of discriminatory promotion, demotion or transfer, or a claim that an employee has been discharged or disciplined without reasonable cause vrey be dealt with under the grievance procedure as set out in this Agreement;
c)	generally manegg._ control, continue, discontinue, in whole or in part, the industrial'enterprise in which the company is engaged; and without restricting the generality of the foregoing, to determine the number and location of the plants, the products to be manufactured, kinds of machines and tools used, processes of manufacturing and designing of products, and the control of materiale and parts to be incorporated in products or its sales policy in so Far as it does not conflict with terms of this Agreement.
The Company has the right to operate its plant for as many hours as may be required to produce the quantity of bakery products for which the Company feels that there will be a demand.
ARTICLE 11 - GRIEVANCE J>fiOCE13UREi.
11.01	A grievance committee, not exceeding three (3) employees, shall be paid for time lost from work during regular working hours while processing grievance of employees with representatives of the company.
11.02	a non-probationary employee has been disciplined, suspended,
* demoted or refused re-employment, or ban any difference concerning the interpretation, application, or administration or alladged violation of the provisions of this agreement, an investigation shall be held at hie request or the Union's written request, the procedure to be as followsi
a)	The employees shall, within three (3> working days, first state his case to and be heard by the Union or a committee of the Union offically appointed for that purpose;
b)	The Union shall, through a committee for the employees, of the
Company concerned, with the Business Agent present or absent, at the option of the Union, have the right to be accorded a hearing by the Company, and the hearing shall be held within three (3) working days or the application for such hearing being made; then the Company shall, within three (3) days cf the said hearing, give its decision in writing to the (Jnien,
H.03 If no agreement is reached under the foregoing procedure, the parties agree that the matter shall be referrecf to an impartial Conciliation Board, for which the following procedure shall be invoked.
11.04	The party referring the matter to conciliation shall, within ten
(10) days of the decision given under paragraph 11.02 (b) submit the matter to be conciliated, in writing, to the other party, and at the same time submit the name c£ its nominee to the Conciliation Board. The party receiving such notice in writing shall, within five (5) days of receipt thereof, submit the name of its nominee to the other party.
11.05	The two nominees so appointed members cf the Conciliation Board shall, within five (5) days from the appointment of the second of them, endeavor to agree upon a third person to be the third member and Chairman of the Conciliation Board. However, if they are unable to agree upon a third person within such time limit, either of them or they may together request the Minister of Labour tor the Province of Saskatchewan to name a third menber and Chairman of the Conciliation Board.
11.06	By mutual agreement, the part lea may refer the grievance to a single arbitrator.
11.07	The Conciliation Board shall receive and consider such material evidence as may be submitted by the parties, and shall make such . independent investigation as it deem8 necessary to reach a full understanding and determination of the issues in dispute. The Conciliation Board shall not alter, add to or amend any of the clauses contained herein.
11.08	This provision shall provide a peaceful method cf adjusting grievance so that there shall not be a suspension or interruption of normal operations. Both parties have agreed to act in good faith in proceeding to adjust grievances under this procedure.
11.09	Each party shall Jt>fcar the expense cf the appointee appointed by it, and the parties will jointly bear the expense of the Chairman.
11.10	The Company shall render all possible assistance in the conduct of any and all investigations made under this procedure.
ABIIg?-S 12 . SENIORITY?.
l2.oi“"' New employees shall be considered on probation and shall not have any seniority rights until the employee has completed thirty (30) working days, after which time the employee's seniority date shall be his date of hire. There shall be one seniority list for fulltime employees and one senority list for part-time employees. Part-time seniority shall be calculated by actual hours worked. Part-time employees who restrict their availability shall not accumulate seniority. Part-time employees shall not have any seniority rights over full-time employees. Seniority shall be established and recognized by departments - i.e. production and sales, for each designated area, as defined in paragraph 1.02, subject to the provision that an employee in either department be given preference over new help, subject to skill and ability. Seniority shall terminate as cf the date of termination of the employee's service by discharge on the part of the Company, or voluntary quit on the part of the employee. If an employee is laid off by the Company, seniority ohall continue for a period of six (6) months. If, within fourteen (14) days' written notice to do so, the employee does not return to work, any claim cf seniority or re-employment is forfeited by the employee concerned except where such employee is unable to return by reason of sickness.
12.02	When a new position is created, or a vacancy occurs, the Company will post a notice of such position or vacancy, stating the position and the rates of pay, for a period of four (4) working days prior to a permanent appointment being made thereto. The name of the employee awarded the vacant job shall be posted on the bulletin board if the employee was an applicant. The Company will make every reaeonable effort to place a successful applicant on the posted job as soon as practically possible. All copies of the jab postings and the name of the successful applicants shall be forwarded to the Union office.
12.03	Where there is a possibility cf a job being filled other than by seniority, it is agreed that a Union-appointed committee of three (3) shall meet with the management and review the applications.
12.04	Any successful applicant for a posted job who fails to qualify shall revert to hie former job held at the time he made the applicat ion.
12.05	An employee who is transferred as a result of the posting procedure will be allowed up to twenty (20) working days' trial period.
12.06	Seniority lists shall be revised and posted on the Company bulletin boards once each four (4) months commencing the first week of January. A copy of all seniority lists will be forwarded to the Union's office. The lists will show the classification cf employees as of the date of posting#
12.07	In promotions, demotions, lay-offs and re-hiring, seniority will be given every consideration, subject to skill and ability.
12.08	Names of employees, hired, diecharged or promoted, and of employees who leave the service of the Company, shall be promptly forwarded at the time of such action to the representative of the Union designated to receive such names.
ARTICLE - UNION SHOP CARDSt
13.Ov The Company will display in its establishment the designation of a Union Shop as supplied by the Bakery, Confectionery and Tobacco Workers' International union cf America.
ARTICLE 14 - NQ VERBAL OR WRITTEN AGREEMENT!
14.01	No employee shall enter Into a verbal or written Agreement which may conflict with this Agreement
ARTICLE 15 - EXTRA PutieB AND STAFF CHANGES;.
15.01 When an employee is transferred to a lower paid job at the request of the Company, the employee shall receive the rate of the former job for a period of three (3) weeks. However, in casee of transfers accepted by the employee to avoid lay-off, and in cases when the employee transfers at his own request, the rate w i 11 change inuneaiately. In the case of temporary transfers to a higher rate job which becomes necessary, the new rate for the job shall apply.
ARTICLE, .liL- MISCELLANEOUS i.
16.01	All bottled drinks will be consumed in lunch or dressing rooms. N) foodstuffs, liquid beverage6 or containere for same to be taken in to any work area.
16.02	Any employee guilty of diehoneet pract ice8 or willful carelessness leading to the damage of Company property, shall be held responsible for payment for same and liable to immediate dismissal from the Company's service. The Company agrees fo notify the Shop steward within twelve (12) hours of any action taken under this sub-article and shall, if requested, supply a general statement of the reason therefore.
16.03	Spirituous liquor or non-prescription use of narcotics will not be taken onto Company premises or on a Company vehicle. Any employee frequenting beer parlors or indulging in the use cf spirituous liquor or non-prescription use of narcotics during working hours or, in the case of salesmen, before having delivered their vehicles to the Company's plant and cashed in, shall be liable to instant dismissal.
16.04	The Company and the Union shall co-operate in all matters relevant to absenteeism.
16.05 Matters which arise between the Union and the Company that require adjustment will, in the absence cf the Branch Manager, be deferred until such time as the Branch Manager can sit in personally with those concerned for discussion, but in no case shall they be deferred for a period exceeding seven (7) days.
16.06	Any employee who baa completed thirty (30) days of work for the Company and whose employment is terminated for any reason except discharge for cause, will be given one (1) week's notice of such termination or pay in lieu thereof. It an employee ie required to continue working beyond the one (1) week's notice, he shall be given a further notice of one (1) week. Any employee who wishes to terminate hie employment shall give the Company one (1) wedc's
not ice f such termination.
16.07	The Company will not be required to pay an employee while absent from employment due to sickness or otherwise, excepting such benefits as accrue to the employee by reason of the Company Insurance Plan and such benefits as may accrue from Articles 26 and 27 of this Agreement.
16.08	Cameras to be positioned on exits. Union doeB not support theft of Company product.
ARTICLE 17___WACF.S AND CLASSIFICATIONS (BAKERY EMPLOYEES) ;
17.01	a) The wage rate specified herein is weekly and minimum, and no employee shall have his or her pay reduced except as a result of change of classification. Nothing contained herein shall prohibit the paying of a higher rate of pay, at the discretion of the Company.
CLASSIFICATION
Effective	Effective	Effective
MarchlS/93.	Marchl5/94	Marchi5/9S
Doughman, Ovenman and Cake Mixer
Bench and Machine Hands, Bread
Wrapper & Doughnut Fryer, Dividerman, Moulderman
Bread Racker, Shipping Linesman, Shippers, Checkers, and Sanitation
Receiving
Bun Boxer and leer, Bun Wrapper, Box Maker and Dishwasher (Cake shop)
Cake Depositor, Do-Nut Machine Operator, Cookie Machine Operator, Sweet Goods a Cake Wrapper (Machine), Cake Utility Cake Finisher a Cake Shipper
Head Shipper
City Truck Driver
Mechanic, Electrician, Engineer Helper
Journeyman-Garage Mechanic
$	634.13
629.13
624.13
626.13
616.13
619.13
630.13 424.40
627.13
634.13
$	649.13
644.13
639.13
641.13
631.13
634.13
645.13 439.40
642.13
649.13
$ 664.13
659.13
654.13
656.13
646.13
649.13
660.13 454.40
657.13
664.13
Thrift Store Man	551.92	566.92	581.92
Relief Man 1 - Rate to apply to job v	performed.
Relief Wan 2 - Rate to apply to job
performed.
Frozen Dough Department.
Dough man, Dividerman
Freezer/Moulder Operator utility
Packaging
634.13	649.13	664.13
629.13	644.13	659.13
17 01 b) New Hires in the thrift store shall be paid an hourly rate of
' $11.00.
** Red circle current employees.
c) All full-time employees will receive a lump sum payment of $500 on December 1, 1993. This payment shall be pro-rated cor part-time employees based on hours worked versus hours possible to work from V\fey 1, 1993 to December 1/ 1993. Effective March 15,
1995 a $15.00 increase and	_
effective March 15, 1996 a $15.00 increase will apply.
17.02	Effective the week of July 1/ 1975, the Companies added one ($1.00)
per week to the gay of each employee: such addition was in lieu of the legislated Medical Care and Hospital Services premiums.
In the event the Government again introduces such premiums, the one dollar ($1.00) will be used toward the payment of such premiums.
17.03	Employees hired after July 10, 1990 will be paid in accordance with the following progression scale:
a)	1st year	of	employment	-	75%	of	basic	wage
b)	2nd year	of	employment	-	80%	of	basic	wage
c)	3rd year	of	employment	-	85%	of	basic	wage
d)	4th year	of	employment	-	90%	of	basic	wage
e,)Sth year of employment - 100% of basic wage
Employees must work a minimum of 225 shifts to progress to the next level. Vacations will be considered time worked.
17.04	Any employee whose entire shift or any portion of his shift falls between the hours of 7:00 pm and 6:00 am shall be paid, in addition to his regular rate of pay, a premium of thirty-nine (39) cents per hour for all such hours worked. This shall become 41 cents effective March 15, 1991 and 43 cents effective March 15, 1992,
17.05	a) In addition to such regular job duties as time will permit, a Lead Hand ah all be responsible for assisting in scheduling and assigning work to employees he is required to lead, and for seeing that such employees produce the quantity and quality of work required by the Company. A Lead Hand shall not have any authority to hire or discharge employees or to exercise any disciplinary act ion.
Lead Hand regularly employed and designated ae such by the Company will be paid not lees than ten dollars ($10.00) per week above the rate at the highest classification he is required to
lead. Where the rate of a Lead Hand is presently higher than referred to herein, his rate will not be reduced to conform with the amount sec out above.
17.OS c) Lead Hands shall not be granted any seniority preference over other employees.
ARTICLE,18 - HOURS,-1SALESMEM1.L
18.01 All salesmen shall work a five day week, it baing understood that Management may make such arrangement with the Union, varying this clause to provide that, where necessary, salesmen may work any combination of days over a period of one (1), two (2), six (6), or twelve (12) weeks. City salesmen shall work on the basis of a five (S') day, forty (40) hour work week.
The company may reduce the work week for any route from five (5) to four (4) days. This shall only take place after discussion with the union and the salesman involved, and shall have no effect on the present arrangement regarding the number of weekly hours to be worked.
18.02	When a salesmen has worked on his scheduled day off; he shall be paid two (2) times the basic pay rate and, in addition, two (3) times the commission rates for that day. However, it is agreed, notwithstanding any other provision, that this shall not apply if a salesman makes a voluntary arrangement with another salesman and it has been cleared by the Management and the Union,
18.03	When a public holiday falls an a salesman's day off, he will ba entitled to another day off within thirty (30) days.
18.04	a) The Hours worked on routes by country salesmen shall not exceed mat than fifty (SO) each regular work week from tnbour Day to the
end of tho first week of the following June, and fifty-five (53) each regular week from the start of the second week erf June to Labour Day*
b)	In the event of a country salesman being required to wnfc in excess of the hours set out above and such excess work is in connection with the sale and delivery of the Company's products, for each one and one-half (1 1/2) hours so worked he will be granted one (1) hour off with pay at a time arranged between the salesman and the Sales Manager.
c)	For purposes of time off, a day shall be considered as ten (10) hours.
ARTICLE 19 - WAGES. COMMISSIONS AMD (SALESMEN) i
19.01 a) Salesmen shall be paid 491.46 basic pay plus the following kilogram rates per products soldi
Bffectivet	March IS, 1993 March 15, 1994 March 15, 1995
Branded	9.0 cents	10.5 cents	12.0 cents
privste Labels	5.1 cents	5.1 cents	S.l cants
b) Drop Delivery
U PartialJDJCQB - Rout«® with drop delivery calls on them ahall pay the current base rate per week and a kilogram rate equal to one-half (1/2) the kilogram race in effect.
ID 100% Drop Delivery Routes - Employees assigned to a 100%
drop routs shall receive a weekly wage of $588.80 per week. Effective March 15, 1991, this shall be $608,80 per week.
Effective March 15, 1992 this shall be $628.80.
Pull commission shall be paid to present salesmen (as of April 19, 1983) who have existing calls presently being served on a drop delivery basis. If any existing call is changed to drop, the matter will be reviewed and explained to the salesmen involved before the change iB effective upon signing the renewed Collective Agreement.
19.02	a) Regular Relief Salesmen hired cn a full-time basis shall be paid ‘ the average cf all routes serviced, plus $5.00 per week.
Relief Salesmen will receive commission for the route serviced provided they operate and are responsible for the routes themselves. Commission will not bet paid while learning or reviewing a route along with another salesman.
b) Regular Relief Salesmen required to travel eighty (80) kms or more to take over a route will be paid an hourly rate of $7.00 for the said eighty (80) kms, pro-rated accordingly where the mileage exceeds eighty (80), plus an allowance of a maximum of $18.00 per day meal allowance, where the salesman is required to stay overnight. If a relief salesman uses his own automobile for travel, a mileage allowance cf twenty-five cents ($0.25) per km will be paid.
19.03	part-time relief salesmen shall be paid the average of the route they service for days spent on the route, plus such portion of wages they earn from time they spend on other jobs.
19.04	a) Salesmen in training shall be paid $487.46 for a period of four (4) weeks, and $491.46 per week thereafter, with the right to bid on the first route vacant.
19.05	Where a salesman-in-training is assigned to take over a routs before he has completed his training period, he shall be paid wages and commissions in accordance with paragraph 19.01.
19.06	country salesmen required to drive in excess of three hundred and twenty two (322) kms weekly, will receive a bonus of .0031 cents per kin for kms driven in excess of three hundred and twenty two
(322) weekly.
19.07	In weeks in which Public Holidays occur, as set out In Article 7, salesmen shall be paid for such weeks at not lees than the average
of their weekly earnings for the preceding calendar year.
Note:	A 11 full-time employees will receive a lump rum payment of $500 on
December 1, 1993. This payment shall be pro-rated lar part-11ms employees based on hours worked versus hours possible to work from Nay 11 1993 to December 1, 1993.
ARTI^E 20 - DELIVERIES ^AND-MOfiKIMG CONDITIONS (SALESMEN) i.
20.01	No bakery or salesman shall be permitted to make deliveries of any
kind on Sundays or holidays.
20.02	Nothing in this Article shall prevent or limit deliveries to trains, buses, or hospitals, at any time.
20.03	All salesmen and Relief salesmen will be responsible for any shortage occurring on a route which he is working, except when the cash ha8 been transferred to a trainee to handle exclusively, and the Company has been so advised in advance of the transfer of cash.
20.04	Trucks to be cleared of all bakery products every Saturday, and these bakery product6 to be returned to the Company with full credit to salesmen.
20.05	In cases of a new man starting on a route, he will not be asked to take over bakery products left by the former salesman.
20.06	No unauthorized person shall be permitted to serve customers, drive or ride in Company vehicles.
ARTICLE 21 - TRANSPORT DRIVERS.L
21.01	a) Transport drivere will be paid the following rates based on
kilometres driven!	# #	#
i) Effective upon ratification - .233 cents/km il) Effective March 15, 1994 - .237 cents/km Hi) Effective March IS, 1995 - .242 cents/km
Note:	(Bob, your team from Regina will have to fill in the "red circle*
rates for the transport guys* Remember, if they bid off their existing route they lose the “red circle*)
b) In addition to the foregoing, transport drivers shall receive a meal allowance c£ $70.00 per month.
21.02	The hours of work and overtime provisions contained in this Agreement shall not apply to Transport Drivers.
21.03	Any employee other than a transport driver who is required to make a trip, shall be paid a daily meal allowance cf Five Dollars
($5.00) plus 6.2 cents (6.2c) per km.
21.04' Breakdown tine Cor transport drivere will be paid as follows;
First hour of breakdown - no additional pay
Next three hours, or portion thereof - $b.25 per hour effective March 15, 1991 the rate shall increase to $5.50. Effective March
15, 1992 the rate shall be to $6,00.
The term .breakdown, shall mean mechanical breakdown of transport equipment .
ARTI^E- 22 - RQVTJE..CHAMGES1
22.01	Any outside salesman or driver whose route is split shall receive the same total rate of wages as his past three (3) months' average for a further period of three (3) months from the date of adjustment. If an employee requests a split route the above wording shall not apply,
22.02	AH salesmen will be notified of route vacancies. it is recognized by the Company that this will entail mailing cf notices c£ vacant routes to all employees who are not located in areas where they have access to the bulletin boards.
This procedure shall not, in any way, affect or delay the filling of vacant routes by the Company.
ARTTCT.K 23 - NEW OCCUPATIONAL CLASSIFICATIONS;
23.01	classification titles and rates thereto for any new classification or positions that may hereafter be established, shall be subject to negotiation and agreement between the Company and the Union and a supplementary agreement shall be executed in respect to any such posit ion.
ARTICLE 24 - SAFETY. AND _HEALTHl
24.01	The Company shall make all reasonable provisions for the safety and health cf the employees during working hours, the Union may, from time to time, bring to the attention of the Company any suggestions in this regard and also any other suggested improvements regarding conditione cf work insofar as they affect the safety and health of employees. Such recommendations shall be subject to negotiations between the Company and the Union.
ARTICLE 25 - COMPENSATION FOR INJURY i
25.01	When an employee is injured in the performance of his duties during working hours, the Company agrees to pay to such employee the difference between the Workers* Compensation Board payment and such employee's regular wage rate on the following conditions;
The Company will not gay the above mentioned difference for the ItretT two weeks an employee la off on account of being infrared" After the second week, the Company will pay cne diIterance tor a
period, not to exceed ninety (90} days. ;	'	~ ~	1	“
25.02 An employee who 1b injured while at work will be paid for the balance of the shift.
ARTICLE 26 - SICK LEAVE BENEFITS t
26.01 Regular full-time employees, after three (3) months' consecutive
employment, will be allowed sick leave benefits et the rate of one-half (1/2) day for each month worked thereafter up to a maximum of nine (9) days. Sick leave pay will only be paid for the second and third working days of any absence due to illness. However, should such continue for five (5) working days or more, then the first day
will be paid, provided there are sufficient benefits credited to the employees.
In no event shall the wages paid by the Company and the monies 'received from Weekly Indemnity exceed a regular day's pay,
26.03	The Company shall, upon request, be provided with verification of illness of the employee in the form of an authentic medical certificate. The Company will bear the cost of the initial certificate to a maximum of ten Dollars ($10.00) upon proof of such cost.
26.04	Any employee who abuses the sick leave privilege, contained herein may have the benefits diecontinued or reduced and shall be subject ■to discipline by the Company.
ARTICLE 27 ~ SEVERANCE PAY:
27.01	In the event of amalgamation, _ permanent closure of plant or department thereof, or automation causing regular full-time employees to lose employment, regular full-time employees will be paid severance pay as follows, in addition to the regular week's notice, or pay in lieu thereof to which employees may be entitled.
(a}
Over two (2) years 4 up to ten (10) years of continuous service
one (1) week's pay for each full two (2) years of such service;
(b)
Over ten (10) & up to twenty (20) years of continuous service
one (1) week for each full year of continuous service in excess of ten (10) years to a maxinun of twenty (20) full years of service.
NOTE* The amount set out in (b) to be paid in addition to the amount set out in (a).
27.02	An employee who loses his employment in accordance with the terms hereof may elect to receive hie severance pay as soon as passible, or he may elect to be placed on a recall list subject to recall in accordance with the terms of the seniority provisions of this Agreement. If the employee elects to receive his severance pay as moon as possible after losing employment or at any time during the recall period, he shall forfeit any claim to employment with the Company. An employee who elects to be placed cn a recall list and who is not recalled within twelve (12) months, shall bo paid the severance pay to which ha was entitled at the time he lost his employment.
27.03	Where a sales route is discontinued by the Company, the severance pay applicable w i 11 be paid to the salesman involved unless he is offered suitable alternate employment by theOompaiy which he could reasonably be expected to perform and which is not more than a radius of 40.3 kms from where he ha6 previously been located.
ARTICLE 28 - AUTOMATION
28.01	Where the Company introduce, automatic equipment or any new
technology which may cause regular full-time employees to lose their employment, the Company will meet with and advise the Union
as far in advance as practicable of the particular situation and its expected duplications.
ARTICLE 29 - JURY DUTY PAYx
29.01	An employee called for jury duty shall be paid the difference between jury duty pay and the eura which would have been paid i f the employee had worked the normal shift or day.
29.02	Payment will only be made if:
a)	the employee has given the Company prior notice of jury duty
call, and
b)	he presents proper evidence that jury duty has been performed, and the amount of remuneration received for such duty.
ARTICLE..,3.0 - PENS10H...FUMD1
30.01	The Standard Collective Bargaining Clause, referring to the Bakery, confectionery and Tobacco Union and Industry Canadian Pension Fund, as amended, shall be continued without change, This Clause shall continue to form part of this Agreement, and shall continue in full force and effect during its term.
30.02	The Company's contribution fo the Pension (Plan C) fund shall be in daily amount sufficient to provide a pension under the existing retirement oonditione of $600.00 per month. This shall be increased to $625.00 per month effective March 15, 1991. Effective March 15, 1992, this shall increase to $675.00 monthly. Bffective one clear month after 1993 ratification the amount shall increase to $725.00. This shall increase to $775.00 on March 15, 1994 end to $825.00 on March 15, 1995
30.03	As used herein, the term ‘existing retirement oonditione. shall mean those in effect as of the signing date c£ this Agreement.
APPROVED STANDARD COLLECTIVE BARGAINING ..CLAUSE (CANADA)
The undersigned Employer and Local Union represent that the only agreement between the said Local Union and Employer regarding pensions or retirement for employees covered by this Collective Bargaining Agreement between the Local Union and the Employer is as follows
1. a) Commencing with the 1st day of August, 1990, and for the duration of the current Collective Bargaining Agreement between the said Local Union and Employer and any renewals or extensions thereof, the Employer agrees to make payments to the Bakery, Confectionery and Tobacco Union_ and Industry International Pension Fund tor each employee working in job classifications covered by the said collective Bargaining Agreement, as followst
For each day or portion thereof, for which an employee subject to the Collective Bargaining Agreement receives pay, the Employer shall make a contribution at $7.52 to the above named Pension Fund, but not more than 5 days per week for any one employee.
Effective March IS, 1991, Employer contribution will bo $7.90. Effective March 15, 1992, Employer contribution will be $8*66. For the purpose of this Article, it is understood that contributions shall be payable on behalf of employees from the first day of employment whether said employees are permanent, temporary or seasonal, or full-time or part-time employees, and regardless of whether or not they are members of the Union. It is further understood that each day or hour paid for, including days or hours of paid vacations, paid holidays, and other days or hours for which pay is received fcy the employee in accordance with the Collective Bargaining Agreement, shall be counted as days or hours for which contributions are payable.
b)	The Employer hereby agrees to become a party to the AgpoonoM; and Declaration of Trust dated September 11, 1955, establishing the said Bakery, Confectionery and Tobacco Union and Industry International Pension Fund, and agrees to be bound by all terms and provisions cf the said Agreement, a copy of which Is annexed hereto and made a part hereof. The4 Employer further agrees irrevocably to designate as its representatives an the Board of Trustees of the Fund, such ^fruatee as are named in said Agreement and Declaration of Trust as Employer Trustees, together with their successors selected in the manner provided in the said Agreement, and agrees to be bound by a 11 the action taken by the said Employer Trustees pursuant to the said Agreement and Declaration of Trust.
c)	it is agreed that the Pension Plan adopted by the Trustees of the said Pension Fund shall be such a8 will quafify for approval for the appropriate Canadian Government Departments, so as to enable the Employer to treat contributions to the Pension Fund as a deduction for income tax purposes.
d)	It is agreed that all contributions shall be made at such times and in such manner as the Trustees require; and the Trustees shall have the authority to have an independent Certified Public Accountant audit the payroll and wage records of the Employer for the purpose of determining the accuracy of contributions to the Pension Fund.
e» If the Employer fails to make contributions to the Pension Fund after the date required by tho Trustees, the Local Union, in addition to any rights the Trustees may have, shall have the right to take whatever steps ere available to it under the Collective Bargaining Agreement and applicable law to secure compliance with this Article. The Employer shall be liable for all costs incurred in collecting the payments due hereunder, together with attorney's fees and such penalties as may be assessed by the Trustees.
2.	The parties agree and represent that there is no other agreement between them regarding pensions, other than this Article, presently in effect. The parties further agree that no agreement regarding pension benefits other than this Article shall be effective during the period covered by the said Collective Bargaining Agreement, except with the consent of the Board of Trustees.
3,	The expiration date of the present Collective Agreement between the Local Union and the Bnployer is March IS, 1993. Copies of any renewal or extension agreements will promptly furnished to the Pension Fund Office and, if not consistent with this Standard Collective Bargaining Clause, can be used by the Trustees as the basis for termination of participation of tne Employer.
article shall be binding upon the parties hereto, their successors administrators, executors and assigns. The Enployer shall give prior notice in writing of this Article to any purchaser, transferee, lessee, assignee or other successor in interest. A copy of such notice shall be furnished to the Trustees not later than ten (10) days after the effective date of the transaction. The Employer agrees that its failure to so notify its successor and the Trustees will operate to continue its obligation under this Article.
ARTICLE 31 - WELFARE BENEFITS!
31.01	The Company will continue in effect the following welfare
*	provisions and employees are eligible to participate in the Weekly Indemnity, Group Life Insurance and The Dental Plan after three (3) months of employment.
a)	The Weekly Indemnity Plan a8 constituted, shall have a benefit level of $325.00 per week or to 60% of the U.I.C. maximum. It is further understood that Weekly Indemnity Benefits will apply on the basis of the first day of coverage in case of accident, and fourth day in case of illness for a total of twenty-six (26) weeks.
b)	The Group Life Insurance Plan based on yearly earnings with a maximum of $26,000 insurance. Increase coverage to $27,000 effective March 15, 1994. Bffective March 15, 1995 increase coverage to $28,000.
cl The basic Dental Plan amended to include dentures.
31.02	The premiums of the above plane will be cn a shared basis with the
Company paying seventy-five per cent (75%) and each eligible employee paying twenty-five per cent (25%).
31.03	With regard to the Dental Plan, the following shall apply with respect to membership in the said Plan?
a)	All new employees, as soon as they become eligible, shall enroll in the Dental Plant
b)	All present employees with dental insurance coverage shall remain in the Plan;
c)	Effective March 16, 1978, all employees not enrolled shall be given the opportunity to do so.
31.04	The Company shall not be responsible for decisions made by the carriers of the above welfare plans (i.e. Weekly Indemnity, Group Insurance and Dental Plan) with respect to the payment 0/beneffts, nor shall there be any liability on the part of the Company for such decisions.
ARTICLE 32 - EXPIRATIOM OF AGBEEMJEMXi
32 01 This Agreement shall take effect and be binding upon the parties
*	until the 15th Day nf March. 1996, and shall continue in effect from year to year thereafter unless notice of revision thereof is given by either party, in writing, by registered mail, et least thirty (30) days, ana not more than sixty (60) days prior to the natural expiration date of same, in which case either party may, on fourteen (14) days* notice, in writing, require the other party to
enter into negotiations for the renewal cf the Agreement within the same period, and both of those notices shall contain an itemized list of all requested changes and these shall be the only items which will be considered.
DULY SIGNED BY THE PARTIES HERETO, IN THE CITY OF REGINA, IN THE PROVINCE OF SASKATCHEWAN
DATED THIS
DAY OF

1993
MEMBERSHIP OATH
1, (caving name), solemnly promise to maintain the Constitution of the International Union and the By-Laws of this or any other Local Union with I may become affiliated as they are not Constituted ox may later be changed,
I promise to maintain the dignity of this organization and to further its objectives,
I furthermore promise that I will not join or render aid or comfort to any organization hostile to the Bakery, Confectionery and Tobacco Workers' International Union and that I will keep secret the proceedings c£ this union,
I also promise that I willwhenever possible, purchase only Union Label goods.
LOCAL UNION OFFICER'S OATH
I, (giving name) , do solemnly promise that I will to the best of my ability perform the duties of my office faithfully and honorably on behalf of the membership,
And that I will always conduct myself in this office according to the strictest requirements and standards cf conscience and integrity,
And the provisions and spirit of the Constitution of the Bakery, Confectionery and Tobacco Workers' International Union and the By-Laws cf my Local Union and that I will carefully preserve and guard all union property that may be l«ft in my charge and that upon the expiration cf my term of office I will turn over such property to my duly elected and installed successor.
WESTON BAKERIES LIMITED
P.0 BOX 345,1377 HAMILTON STREETREGINA, SASK. S4P3A1
June 24,1994
Mr. Harvety Stevenson Business Agent B.C. AT. Local #389 Saskatchewan Office
Dear Harvey:
This letter will be an understating between Weston Bakeries Limited and the B.C. & T. Local #389 regarding Article 21.01 (a) of our collective agreement
Transport mute pa* schedules will change to a per kilometer rate W/E July 9/94. This will affect a 11 routes except those routes that would suffer a loss of income: These routes will be red-circled on tho rate they are presently at. they will also rocicvc a $15.00 a week increase effective March 15/94, and March 15/95.
This red-circle arrangement wi 11 cease shoulda driver bid off the current red-circled route that he is on.
Sincerely.
Bob Davies Operations Manager
WESTON BAKERIES LIMITED
P.0 BOX 345,1377 HAMILTON STREET, REGINA, SASK. S4P 3A1
June 24,1994
Mr. Harvery Stevenson Business Agent B.C.&T. Local #389 Saskatchewan Office
Dear Harvey
This letter will be an understating between Weston Bakeries Limited and the B.C. & T. Local #389 regarding summer students. The Company agrees -to the following:
- Summer Students will be noted on the shift schedule and seniority with an "S"
- If a summer student replies in writting to the Company prior to September 15, that he is not returning to school, he wi 11 no longer be a summer student and his seniority will date back to his
first day hired that year.
-	Seniority for summer students shall be based on previous summer employment and they shall have seniority rights over more junior summer students, eg: first year summa students.
-	They have no seniority rights over other call in personnel.
Sincerely,
Weston Bakeries Limited
Bob Davies Operations Manager
WESTON BAKERIES LIMITED
P.O BOX 345,1377 HAMILTON STREET, REGINA, SASK. S4P 3A1
June 24,1994
Mr. Harvery Stevenson Business Agent B.C.&T. Local #389
Saskatchewan Office
Dear Harvey:
This letter will be an understading between Weston Bakeries Limited and the B.C. & T. Local #389 regarding our existing contract. The company agrees to the following:
Production employees work week will be either Sunday to Thursday or Monday to Friday, alternating between the two.
The divider start times will be Sunday	-9:00 A.M.
Monday to Friday -4:00 A.M.
Any deviation for any reason w i 11 be negotiated with the Union prior to the change.
Sincerely,
Weston Bakeries Limited