Section B
C O L L E C T I V E A G R E E M E N T
BETWEEN:
WESTON BAKERIES LIMITED, WINNIPEG, MANITOBA
- and -
BAKERY, CONFECTIONERY AND TOBACCO WORKERS AND GRAIN MILLERS INTERNATIONAL UNION, LOCAL #389 WINNIPEG, MANITOBA
Effective: Opening
Expiry:	A minimum of 6 years with an expiry of 31, October, 201____.
00554 (07)
C O L L E C T I V E A G R E E M E N T
BETWEEN:
WESTON BAKERIES LIMITED, Winnipeg, Manitoba (hereinafter called "the Company")
- and -
THE BAKERY, CONFECTIONERY AND TOBACCO WORKERS AND GRAIN MILLERS INTERNATIONAL UNION, LOCAL #389,
Winnipeg, Manitoba, (hereinafter called "the Union")
It is the intent and purpose of this Agreement that the Company and the Union co-operate to obtain a safe and efficient facility with the unrestricted production and distribution of quality products; to promote an environment of safety first; to maintain a harmonious relationship between the Company and its employees; to provide a method of settling in an amicable manner any difference or grievance which may from time to time arise; and to set forth rates of pay, hours of work and other conditions of employment to be observed between the parties hereto. All subject to the terms of the Collective Agreement in force.
In this Agreement wherever the words “he”, “she”, “his”, or “her” appear, it shall be construed as meaning persons of either gender.
Article 1 - SCOPE AND EXTENT:
1.01	This Agreement applies to all plant employees (herein called the Plant Employees) of the
Company, located at______________________________in the City of Winnipeg, Manitoba,
as designated by Certificate #352 of the Manitoba Labour Board, dated February 6,1952, but does not extend to employees employed as office staff; or to Company officials who act in a confidential or supervisory capacity. The Company shall, upon the written request of the Union, send to the Union a list of Company officials so acting, and will indicate by appropriate job titles, the nature and extent of their authority.
Article 2 - RECOGNITION:
2.01	The Plant Employees have selected the Union as their sole and exclusive bargaining agent, and the Company recognizes the Union as such.
2.02	The Company shall recognize the Business Agent of the Union as a representative of the Plant Employees, and shall extend to him every privilege as such.
Article 3 - RELATIONSHIP:
2
3.01
3.02
3.03
3.04
3.05
3.06
All Plant Employees who are presently employed, who are now members of the Union, and all plant employees hereinafter employed, shall, from the date of this Agreement, or within thirty (30) calendar days of employment, become and remain members in good standing of the Union, for the life of this Agreement.
The Company agrees that all new employees shall, on the first day of employment, sign a post-dated application for membership in the Union, effective thirty (30) calendar days later, which shall provide for Company deduction of Union initiation fees, dues and assessments. For the convenience of the Company, application forms shall be supplied by the secretary of the Union.
Upon the individual request, in writing, of any employee, the Company shall deduct from the 1st two pay periods of each month out of the wages due to such employee to the person designated by the Union to receive the same, the Union dues, initiation fees, fines and assessments of such employee, and the Company shall furnish to the Union the names of the employees who have given such authority, also the names of the employees who have left the service of the Company. The Company will include the employee’s union dues on their T-4.
Monies deducted shall be forwarded by the Company to the Secretary- Treasurer of the Union as soon as administratively possible and no later than 3 weeks from the 4 week period to which the deductions were made.
The terms and conditions as negotiated by the parties of this Agreement shall apply to all plant employees and no alteration of wages, increase in hours of labour, or changes in working conditions shall be made to any plant employees without prior discussion with the Union or its representatives.
(a)	The Company will permit the Chief Steward of the Plant to enter any department to conduct business on behalf of the Union, provided he first notifies the department head and further provided he does not unduly take up the time of employees at work.
(b)	The Business Representative of the Union will be permitted to visit the Plant to conduct Union Business, provided permission is first obtained from the Plant Manager or in is absence the senior manager on shift, and further provided such visit does not interfere with production or the work of employees.
Recognized supervisors and foremen will not perform work that is performed by regular employees within the bargaining unit, except:
(a)	when performing development of experimental work;
(b)	when checking production on any operation;
3
3.07
3.08
Article 4 4.01
Article 5 5.01
5.02
5.03
(c)	when employees are not available for work or due to being late for work providing every effort is being made to replace the employee
(d)	in cases of emergency.
NOTE:	The terms of this section shall be subject to the grievance procedure.
Where used in this Agreement, the term "emergency" shall be defined as any circumstance occurring which is beyond the control of the Company, and may become the subject of discussion between the parties.
The Company agrees to display a Union plaque on the Company premises.
MANAGEMENT RIGHTS:
Except where specifically abridged by the terms of this Agreement, it is the exclusive
function of the Company to:
(a)	Maintain order, discipline and efficiency;
(b)	Hire, discharge, transfer, promote, demote or discipline employees, provided that a claim of discriminatory promotion, demotion or transfer, or a claim that a nonprobationary employee has been discharged without reasonable cause, may be the subject of a grievance and dealt with as hereinafter provided;
(c)	Manage, control, continue, in whole or in part, the industrial enterprise in which the Company is engaged.
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE:
Any complaint, disagreement or difference of opinion between the Company, the Union, or the employees covered by this Agreement, which concerns the interpretation or application of the terms and provisions of this Agreement shall be considered a grievance. Any employee, the Shop Steward, the Union or the Company may present a grievance. Any grievance, which is not presented within thirty (30) calendar days following the event given rise to such grievance, shall be forfeited and waived by the aggrieved party.
Step #1:
By a discussion between the employee and his immediate supervisor. The employee or the supervisor may request the presence of a Shop Steward. If a satisfactory settlement cannot be reached within five (5) working days, then;
Step #2:
If the grievance is not then settled, the Union shall state the grievance in writing setting out the following:
4
5.04
5.05
5.06
5.07
Article 6
6.01
6.02
(a)	the nature of the grievance and the circumstances out of which it arose;
(b)	the remedy or correction required and;
(c)	the article(s) of the agreement claimed to have been violated.
and deliver a copy to the Plant Manager or his designate requesting a meeting which will be held within two (2) working days or such longer time as may be mutually agreed upon. At this meeting, up to 2 shop stewards and the grievor may be present. The Business Agent of the Union may be present if his presence is requested by either party.
No Company official shall take up a grievance personally with any affected employee without a Shop Steward being present once the grievance has been formally lodged, in writing, by the Grievance Committee.
Step #3:
If the grievance is not settled at the meeting held under Step #2, the grievance shall be discussed within a further period of five (5) working days, between the Plant Manager or his designate and a representative of the Union, who shall meet and attempt to reach a settlement.
Any arrangement or decision agreed to under the foregoing steps shall be confirmed and set forth in writing, and be binding upon the Union, the Company, and the employee or employees concerned.
A grievance committee, not exceeding two (2) employees, shall be paid for time lost from work during regular working hours while processing and discussing grievances of employees with representatives of the Company. Meetings to discuss grievances shall be held during regular office hours of the Company.
ARBITRATION:
Should the parties fail to reach an agreement under the foregoing procedure, either party may refer the matter to arbitration. In such event, the requesting party shall, within (10) working days of completion of the steps referred to above, serve written notice on the other party by registered mail of its request, stating the matter to be arbitrated.
The requesting party shall then notify the other party, in writing, within five (5) working days, of its serving such notice, of the name of the person to represent it as an arbitrator, and the receiving party shall, within five (5) working days of receipt of such name, notify the requesting party of the name of its arbitrator. The two arbitrators so named shall then meet and attempt to settle the dispute, and failing agreement, they shall, within five (5) working days after their last meeting, name an impartial representative to assist them in settling the dispute. The two persons named and the impartial representative, shall form a Board of Arbitration, herein called "the Board", and the impartial representative shall act as Chairman of the Board. Should the two arbitrators fail to agree on the choice of the impartial representative, the Minister of Labour for the Province of Manitoba shall be asked to select such person. The majority decision of the Board shall be final and binding upon both parties. By mutual agreement, the parties may refer the grievance to a single arbitrator.
5
6.03	The Board of Arbitration shall have jurisdiction and authority only to interpret, apply or determine compliance with the provisions of this Agreement insofar as shall be necessary to the determination of grievances appealed to the Board, but the Board shall not have jurisdiction or authority to add to, deduct from, or alter in any way, the provisions of this Agreement.
6.04	The Board of Arbitration shall adopt its own procedure for determining the matter in dispute.
6.05	No person shall be appointed as an Arbitrator who has been involved in any attempt to settle the grievance. The cost of the arbitrators appointed by the Company and the Union shall be borne by each party respectively, and the cost of the third member of the Board shall be borne equally by the Company and the Union.
Article 7 - DISCHARGE CASES:
7.01	The Union will not question the dismissal of any employee employed for less than 5 months.
7.02	A claim by a non-probationary employee that he has been unjustly dismissed from employment, shall be treated as a grievance, only if a written statement to that effect is lodged with the Winnipeg Manager of the Company within five (5) working days of the employee being given notice of dismissal. Such special grievances may be settled by confirming the Management's action in dismissing the employee, or by reinstatement of the employee with full compensation for time lost, or by any other arrangement which, in the opinion of the parties, is fair and reasonable.
Article 8 - CONTINUITY OF OPERATIONS:
8.01	There shall be no strike, slow-down or stoppage of work on the part of the Union, or any employee, and there shall be no lockout by the Company during the life of this Agreement, or during the period stipulated by Manitoba Law, for the negotiation of a new Agreement.
8.02	A shut-down occasioned by any cause beyond control of the Company, or by any changes in method of operation, shall not constitute a lockout.
8.03	Any employee who contravenes the provisions of this Article may be subject to discharge by the Company and, if discharged, may have recourse to the grievance procedure.
6
Article 9
9.01
9.02
9.03
9.04
9.05
9.06
SENIORITY:
Employees shall be considered on probation and shall not be entitled to seniority rights until they have completed 5 months service with the Company. Upon completion of the probationary period, seniority shall be dated from the date of employment. During an employee's probationary period, he shall be considered as being employed on a trial basis and may be discharged or laid off at the discretion of the Company and neither such employee nor the Union shall have recourse to grievance or arbitration procedures. Employees who restrict their availability shall not accumulate seniority. This shall not prevent seniority already accrued from being used in recall from lay-off.
As of the first week of May and the first week of October of each year, the Company shall prepare and maintain seniority lists; such lists shall be posted on the Company bulletin boards or will otherwise be made available for the employees to examine on request. A copy of all seniority lists will be sent to the Union office. The classification of employees as of the date of preparation of seniority lists will be shown on the said seniority lists.
Layoff and recalls from layoffs will normally be based upon seniority subject to the employees being of equal merit, skill, ability and having the physical capabilities to perform the classifications remaining.
All employees may exercise their seniority rights and shall be entitled to a trial period of up to twenty (20) working days in layoffs and recalls from layoff. The trial period may be extended by mutual agreement between the Company and the Union.The rate of pay applicable during such trial period shall be that of the rate the employee was earning prior to the trial period commencing, except that where the classification rate at which the employee is working during the trial period is less, then the lesser rate shall apply. Where a trial period is applicable, training will be provided.
Where practical, training opportunities and scheduling practices will be done by seniority. The objective is to ensure those with greater seniority have the skill sets to enhance their job opportunities within the plant. Persons trained will provide their skills in jobs as required.
Training guidelines will be developed, implemented and monitored by the Joint Labour Management Committee or their designates. The Joint Labour Management Committee shall be made up of two Management and two Union members.
An employee laid off in accordance with 10.03 above will, if he had six (6) months or less of seniority at the time of layoff, retain the seniority he had and the right to be recalled for a period equal to his seniority to a maximum of six (6) months. If he had more than six (6) months of seniority at the time of layoff, he will retain the seniority he had and the right of recall for a period equal to this seniority, but not exceeding twelve (12) consecutive months.
An employee who is working at a full-time job when recalled shall first contact the Company as soon as possible and then shall report for work within seven (7) days. However, if the employee is not working at a full-time job, he shall first contact the Company as soon as
7
9.07
9.08
Article 10
10.01
10.02
10.03
possible and then shall report to work within three (3) days. Failure to report to work within the time limits set out herein shall mean an employee shall forfeit any claim to recall. Any recalls shall, if made by telephone, be immediately confirmed by registered mail or courier addressed to the last known address on record with the Company.
Where the Company is unable to contact an employee by telephone who is eligible for recall following layoff, the Company may call the next eligible employee. Where the said recall does not involve the first eligible employee and is for more than one (1) working day, the Chief Steward will be notified of the circumstances.
In cases of sickness and injury the Company will maintain the employees benefits for a period of six months from the date of injury/illness. The employee will remain on the seniority list for a total of eighteen months from the date of injury/illness, provided they are totally disabled for the entire period.
Further, a person shall lose all seniority and his employment shall be terminated if he:
(a)	quits;
(b)	is discharged for just cause
(c)	is absent from work without contacting the Company for three (3) working days;
(d)	overstays an authorized leave	of absence.
In c and d above the employee may provide an explaination as to his absence which will be reviewed by the Company. In the event the Company does not accept the explaination given, the Union may refer this matter to the grievance procedure.
VACANCIES:
(a)	When a team member vacancy occurs or new full time team member position is created, the Company agrees to post a notice of such vacancy where all employees may see same. Such notice shall remain posted for a minimum of seven (7) calendar days. Candidates will normally be selected by seniority subject to the employees being of equal merit, skill, ability and have the physical capabilities to perform the classification requested. All applications shall be made in writing. A copy will be given to the Chief Steward)
(b)	Posted jobs shall be those that are created or vacated and it is deemed that the position will be maintained, for example Team Member, Breadline.
Where there is a possibility of a job being awarded other than by seniority, it is agreed that an appointed committee of two (2) Stewards shall meet with no more that two (2) management members and review the applications, it being understood that no employee shall serve on the committee while his own case is being dealt with.
Successful applicants shall be put on the job within twenty working days subject to the Company having qualifed staff to place in the vacated position of the applicant.
8
10.04	Successful applicants for a job posting who fail to meet the job requirements after a 2 week trial period shall revert to their original job. The trial period may be extended by mutual agreement between the Company and the Union. The applicants to the original job posting will be considered as outlined in this article. When bidding for more than one (1) posted job at a time applicants shall indicate their preference. Employees who attain a job through the posting procedure will not participate is future postings until 6 months has elapsed from the date of the posting being posted which they received.
10.05	If, during the currency hereof, it is deemed necessary by the Company to create a new job or classification, not at present classified herein, the wage rate shall be negotiated by the parties prior to its posting.
10.06	Any employee who may be absent due to illness, vacation or leave of absence or worker's compensation who was not contacted and informed of the vacant position by the Company may, within five (5) days upon return to work, submit an application for a job that has been posted.
10.07	Where possible, preference will be given to senior support team members for vacation and part-time relief in the team member classification.
Article 11	- SAFETY AND HEALTH:
11.01	The Union and the Company will cooperate in developing and maintaining the high standards of safety with the objective of reducing and, where possible, eliminating the causes of industrial accidents. The union and the employer agree to constitute a joint health and safety committee consisting of a minimum of four members with an equal number of representatives from the union and the Company, which shall identify potential health and safety risks, recommend the means of improving the level of health and safety Where the company requires employees to wear company approved safety footwear, such wearing shall be a condition of employment and must be worn on duty at all times. Employees will be reimbursed for such footwear up to an allowance of one hundred dollars ($100.00) per pair of shoes after each two thousand (2000) hours of work. Some departmental exceptions may be necessary and will be reviewed by the Company.
11.02	Upon mutual request of the parties hereto, or by request of the Company, any or all employees shall be subject to a physical examination by a competent physician at the Company's expense.
Article 12	- BULLETIN BOARDS:
12.01
The Company will provide bulletin boards in mutually satisfactory locations throughout the plant for the convenience of the Union in posting notices of Union activity. All such notices
9
Article 13 -	must be signed by the proper officer of the local Union. All notices shall be submitted to the Plant Manager for approval prior to posting. - LUNCH AND REST PERIODS:
13.01	In a minimum eight (8) hour shift employees shall be scheduled for two (2) paid ten (10) minute rest periods and one (1) unpaid thirty (30) minutes meal period for each shift worked. For greater clarity, employees shall be scheduled for the following rest and meal periods:
(a)	up to a Five (5) hour shift: one (1) paid ten (10) minute rest period.
(b) more than Five (5) hours and up to a Seven (7) hour shift: one (1) paid ten (10) minute rest
(c)	period and One (1) unpaid thirty (30) minute meal period. more than a Seven (7) hour shift: two (2) paid ten (10) minute rest periods one (1) unpaid thirty (30) minute meal period. For every two (2) hours or more worked in addition to an eight (8) hour daily shift, employees shall be granted an additional ten (10) minute break.
Article 14 -	- DISMISSAL AND LAY-OFF NOTICE:
14.01	Except in the case of cause, all employees employed by the Company for more than thirty (30) working days, shall receive equivalent to one pay period notice, or pay in lieu thereof. before dismissal, and the employee shall give the Company equivalent to one pay period notice before severing employment with the Company.
14.02	All warnings, lay-off and dismissal notices shall be given by the Company in writing, with reasons given, and a copy provided to the Shop Steward.
Article 15 -	- LEAVE OF ABSENCE:
15.01	The Company will grant leave of absence without pay, to one employee who is appointed or elected to union office, for a period up to and including one (1) year. Further leave of absence may be granted by mutual consent. The employee who obtains this leave of absence shall return to his Company within thirty (30) calendar days after the completion of his term of employment with the Union.
15.02	Subject to business requirements the Company will grant leave of absence without pay to a maximum of 3 employees who are elected as representatives to attend Union meetings and Union conventions, in order that they may carry out their duties on behalf of the Union.
15.03	In order for the employer to replace the employee with a competent substitute, it is agreed that before the employee receives this leave of absence, as set forth in clauses 16.01 and
10
16.02 above, the employer will be given due notice, in writing; in the case of 16.01, twenty (20) calendar days, and in the case of 16.02, five (5) calendar days.
Article 16 - COMPASSIONATE LEAVE:
16.01	Permanent employees who, through illness, are compelled to leave work during the course of a day, shall receive full pay for the whole of such day, providing they have worked at least four and one-half (4 1/2) hours.
16.02	An employee who has completed the probationary period shall be entitled to not more than three (3) consecutive days' leave of absence with pay in the event of the death of the employee's father, mother, sister, brother, spouse, child, grandparents, father-in-law or mother-in-law, to attend the mourning and the funeral. Only that portion of the three (3) days that would otherwise have been time worked will be paid. Additional leave without pay will be granted up to a maximum of four (4) consecutive days if such leave is justified.
16.03	The Company may grant written leave of absence to any employee for legitimate personal reasons. Such leave, when granted by the Company, shall be without pay and with accumulation of seniority. For any LOA approved for longer than 2 pay periods the employee will be required to pay 100% of the health benefit premiums.
Article 17 - UNIFORMS AND WHITES:
17.01	Employees who are required by the Company to wear uniforms shall have such uniforms supplied and laundered by the Company.
17.02	The Company shall supply and launder aprons for such of the employees as the Company shall consider requires them.
Article 18 - WAGES:
18.01	The wage rates specified herein are minimum. Nothing contained herein shall prohibit
the paying of a higher rate of pay or implementing a bonus program at the discretion of the Company. The Company will advise the Union of any proposed wage adjustments prior to implementing same. Each employee, coming under this Agreement, shall be governed by the classifications and wage rates as set out in Appendix “A”(subject to any adjustments).
11
18.02
18.03
18.04
18.05
18.06
Employees who are promoted or, permanently transferred to another department at the initiative of the Company, shall be put on the wage scale of the new classification which coincides to their wage rate at the time of transfer e.g. without reduction in wage rate.
If however, a transfer takes place as a result of a request of an employee, then such employee shall be put on the wage scale, which corresponds to the hours worked with the company not withstanding any resultant wage rate reduction.
A Lead Hand, designated as such by the Company to direct the work of others, may assist in scheduling and assigning work to employees and for seeing that such employees produce the quantity and quality of work required by the Company. He shall not have any authority to hire or discharge employees or to exercise any disciplinary action.
Lead Hands shall not be granted any seniority preference over other employees.
An employee required to work fifty per cent (50%) or more of the hours in a work week in one or more classifications will be paid for the full week at the highest rated classification in which he has worked.
Any employee required temporarily to take the place of a lower-rated employee shall not have his wages reduced.
Job Rotation
Employees may be provided with opportunities to rotate between team member and support team member positions within the bakery and will receive the applicable rate based on the position being performed. Should employees be relocated on a temporary basis from team member to support team member position to accommodate planned training, their rate shall not be reduced. This will allow employees an opportunity to be trained on team member positions and increase internal opportunities for posted positions in the team member classification.
Equipment Allowance
In January of each year, employees classified in a trades category in the Maintenance Department will be entitled to a $600.00 equipment allowance. The equipment must be used on the premises. Employees will be reimbursed funds from this allowance upon providing proof of purchase for the necessary tools and equipment to the plant manager. Reimbursement shall be made to the employee in a timely manner. There will be no carryover of unused entitlement from year to year.
12
Article 19 - Statutory Holidays
19.01
All Employees covered by this Agreement shall receive a day off with pay for the following Statutory Holidays, and all other Public Holidays proclaimed by the Provincial and Federal Governments, provided they have been employed with the Company for thirty (30) working days prior to the holiday:
New Year's Day, Good Friday, Victoria Day, Dominion Day, Civic Holiday,
Labour Day, Thanksgiving Day, Remembrance Day, Christmas Day, Boxing Day.
Holiday pay for purposes of the above will be based on the average daily hours worked by the employee in the four (4) weeks immediately preceding the holiday to a maximum of eight (8) hours. However, in the event of a work schedule where the maximum hours of work of an employee at straight time rate consists of ten (10) hours per day and where the work week at straight time rate consists of forty (40) hours per week or eighty hours bi-weekly then, the calculated holiday pay will be to a maximum of ten (10) hours.
It is recognized that the employer may substitute another day off to recognize the Statutory Holiday. Employees required to work the holiday or in the event of a substituted day, shall be paid at the rate of time and one half (1% x) for work on that day in addition to their calculated holiday pay.
In lieu of payment or premiums as described above for public holidays (excluding Christmas Day), employees will be eligible for two weeks of paid time off to be taken outside the May 1 to September 30 regular vacation period. In addition, employees will be eligible for one “floating” public holiday, which may be taken in the regular vacation period. All time off must be taken by December 31st for the previous 12 months in which it was earned.
In the event that employees receive compensation for the public holiday but have not yet earned the public holiday and are no longer employed by the Company by either voluntary or involuntary reasons, the public holiday(s) will be treated as vacation days and deducted accordingly from the employees’ vacation entitlement on termination from the Company payroll system.
This program will discontinue and the contract will return to its original state should the Labour Board or a Court determine that this does not meet or exceed statutory requirements, or should this provision not be cost neutral to the Company versus statutory requirements. The Union will be notified by November 30 if the Company intends to discontinue the practice in the following year.
Article 20 - HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME, ETC.:
13
20.01
20.02
20.03
20.04
20.05
20.06
This Article defines the normal hours of work and provides the basis for calculating overtime. It shall not be construed as a guarantee of hours per week, or of days of work per week, or as a restriction on the scheduling of a longer or shorter work week or work day whenever; in the opinion of the Employer, this is required for business reasons.
Regular Work Schedule: The maximum hours of work of an employee at straight time rate shall consist of eight (8) consecutive hours per day. The work week at straight time rate shall consist of forty (40) hours per week.
Scheduling:
Scheduling will be done by classification within each department (and in production by production line) on a weekly basis in accordance with seniority and subject to employees having the present ability to perform the work in a proficient manner. Scheduling in accordance with seniority refers to the number of hours scheduled in a week and does not preclude or limit the scheduling of shifts or scheduling on a rotational basis.
Prior to implementing a rotational shift schedule the Company will meet with the Union to review such schedules for viable alternatives. The parties agree to have full consultation prior to intiating any such practice.
Employees may with the consent of the Company restrict their availability to designated days in the week. Restricted employees will be scheduled hours only after unrestricted employees have been scheduled hours.
For purposes of this agreement, departments are (1) Production, (2) Shipping, (3) Sanitation and (4) Maintenance .
The Company will provide at least forty eight (48) hour notice of a change in schedule except in the event of emergency or other unforeseen circumstances.
Overtime shall be paid at a rate of time and one half times (1^ x) the regular hourly rate for work performed in excess of eight (8) hours of work in the day or forty (40) hours of work in the week.
The Employer shall pay an employee called in to perform work, not continuous with his regular work nor previously scheduled by the Employer, wages for at least four (4) hours of work at the employee’s regular rate of wages.
The above wording does not preclude the employer from instituting a work schedule where the maximum hours of work of an employee at straight time rate consists of ten (10) consecutive hours per day and where the work week at straight time rate consists of forty (40) hours per week or eighty (80) hours in bi-weekly schedule. In such instance overtime would be paid at a rate of time
14
20.07
20.08
20.09
20.10
and one half times (l1^ x) the regular hourly rate, in circumstances where the employee had been required to perform work in excess of ten (10) hours in a work day; or forty (40) hours in a work week; or eighty (80) hours in a biweekly schedule.
Prior to implementing a bi- weekly schedule where employees are scheduled over 40 hours in a calander week at their regular rate of pay, the Company will meet with the Union to review such schedules. If the employees have concerns, the Union shall have the opportunity to propose alternative schedules that meet business requirements for consideration. The parties agree to have full consultation prior to intiating any such practice.
The parties agree that it is not the intention to have an averaging agreement that will exceed forty-eight (48) hours in a calendar week.
If, due to business requirements or at the request of an employee group, either party may express an interest to have an extension on the 48 hr weekly maximum. The parties will meet to discuss and agree to a revised schedule.
In the event overtime is required, the Employer will schedule such overtime on a rotational basis to those who volunteer. In the event there is not sufficient volunteers to work the required overtime, the Employer will schedule overtime as per a and b below.
(a)	or overtime that is to be less than one shift; overtime will first be offered to those senior employees at work with the present ability and willingness to do the work in the classification(s) on the related production line or, in the work area where the overtime is required. Failing this, the Employer will assign the work to employees at work with the present ability to do the other work.
(b)	Where overtime is anticipated by the Employer to be one or more full shifts, the
overtime will first be offered to those senior employees with the present ability and willingness to do the work in the classifications on the related production line or, in the work area where the overtime is required. Failing this, the Employer will assign the work to employees with the present ability to do the work.
Under normal circumstances an employee required to work overtime will be given notice of at least one (1) hour.
Any hours beyond twelve (12) consecutive hours in any one shift shall be worked in accordance with the Hours of Work provisions of the Employment Standards Legislation.
No employee except the Doughman and Maintenance Man shall be required to commence work earlier than 10:00 p.m. on Christmas Day and, if the plant is closed on New Year’s Day, 8:00 p.m. New Year's Day unless otherwise mutually agreed between the Company and the Union.
15
20.11
20.12
20.13
Article 21 21.01
If an employee is absent during the regulation week without valid reason for any part of his scheduled work, he shall only be paid overtime on a weekly basis.
Any contemplated change of a major nature, in the schedule of working hours, shall be brought to the attention of the Union, at least one week before such change is made effective, and the Union shall have the right to make such representations as it may deem proper.
All employees must adhere to and use to the time system for the recording of hours worked and security systems. Employees may be requested to use the time system for all breaks.
VACATIONS:
Vacation will be scheduled within each department (and in production by line) with selection by seniority within each classification provided employees remaining have the present ability to perform the available work in a proficient manner.
The company’s vacation year will be the period from January 1st to December 31st. A notice will be posted on November 1st of each calendar year, requesting employees to state their choice of vacation dates for the following calendar year. Such notice will be removed by the Employer at the end of that month and the vacation schedule prepared and posted within ten days. Requests to reschedule vacation periods after this date will be considered by the Employer; however, the requested changes will not be made if, in the opinion of the Employer, the rescheduling will interfere with the vacations of other employees or with the Employer’s operating needs. All full time employees will have the opportunity to schedule 2 weeks vacation between the prime vacation period of May 1 to September 30th
(a)	An employee with one (1) year or more but less than five (5) years of continuous service as at January 1st of the vacation year shall be entitled to two (2) weeks vacation. Pay for such vacation shall be four percent (4%) of the employee’s straight time earnings in the previous year.
(b)	An employee with five (5) years or more of continuous service as at January 1st of the vacation year shall be entitled to three (3) weeks vacation. Pay for such vacation shall be six percent (6%) of the employee’s straight time earnings in the previous year.
(c)	An employee with ten (10) years or more of continuous service as at January 1st of the vacation year shall be entitled to four (4) weeks vacation. Pay for such vacation shall be eight percent (8%) of the employee’s straight time earnings in the previous year.
(d)	An employee with Seventeen (17) years or more of continuous service as at January 1st of the vacation year shall be entitled to five (5) weeks vacation. Pay for such vacation shall be ten percent (10%) of the employee’s straight time earnings in the previous year.
(e)	An employee with twenty five (25) years or more of continuous service as at January 1st of the vacation year shall be entitled to six (6) weeks vacation. Pay for such vacation
16
21.02
21.03
21.04
21.05
21.06
21.07
21.08 Article 22 22.01
23.02
shall be twelve percent (12%) of the employee’s straight time earnings in the previous year.
Employees who have attained 10 years of consecutive service will qualify for the following:
(a)	3 weeks vacation within the prime vacation period, and the other week at some time outside the prime vacation period. If vacation weeks are avalible employees may schedule the 3 weeks consecutivley.
(b)	At the request of the employee, 4 weeks may be taken consecutively at some time outside the prime vacation period.
Part time employees will be paid accumulated vacation earnings in January for the previous year.
The prime vacation period shall be from May 1st to September 30th each year. However, this shall not preclude an employee from making a mutually satisfactory arrangement with his supervisor or foreman to take all or part of his vacation at a time other than the prime time vacation period.
The vacation list shall be posted not later than December 15th of each year, and should a vacation period become vacant, after the holiday list has been posted, such vacancy shall be posted immediately.
(Subject to 19.01) If a public or statutory holiday occurs during an employee's vacation, the employee shall be entitled to one (1) extra day of vacation or he may elect to receive one (1) day's pay in lieu thereof. The arrangement for the extra day's vacation or pay in lieu thereof shall be made with the employee's foreman before the employee commences his vacation.
All employees shall take their vacations annually.
The cut-off date for accumulating service for vacations with pay shall be December 31st . SICK LEAVE:
Regular full-time employees who have completed three (3) consecutive months of employment shall accumulate sick leave benefits at the rate of 4 hours for each full month worked to a maximum of 48 hours. Sick leave pay shall only apply to the second and third working day of any illness except that, if an employee is absent due to illness for more than seven (7) calendar days, then the first day will be paid, provided there is sufficient benefits credited to the employee.
In no event shall the wages paid by the Company and monies received from weekly Indemnity exceed a regular day's pay.
17
23.03	If the Company requests verification of illness, the employee shall be required to provide suitable verification, such as an authentic medical certificate. The Company will bear the cost of such certificate upon proof of such costs.
23.04	An employee, if found abusing this privilege, may be disciplined by the Company. The Company may discontinue or reduce the benefit to the employee.
Article 24 - SEVERANCE PAY:
24.01	In the event of amalgamation/permanent closure of plant, or department thereof; or
automation; causing a regular employee to lose his or her employment, the Company hereby agrees to pay such employees severance pay at their regular rate of pay as follows:
•	one week of pay per year of service for all employees with less than ten years’ continuous service;
•	two weeks per year of service for all employees with ten years’ or more continuous service to a maximum of 40 weeks.
An employee who loses his employment in accordance with the terms hereof may elect to receive his severance pay as soon as possible or he may elect to be placed on a recall list, subject to recall in accordance with the terms of the seniority provisions of this Agreement. If the employee elects to receive his severance pay as soon as possible after losing employment or at any time during the recall period, he shall forfeit any claim to employment with the Company. An employee who elects to be placed on a recall list and who is not recalled within twelve (12) months, shall be paid the severance pay to which he was entitled at the time he lost his employment.
Article 25 - AUTOMATION:
25.01	Where the Company introduces automatic equipment or any new technology which may cause regular full-time employees to lose their employment, the Company will meet with and advise the Union as far in advance as practicable of the particular situation and its expected implications.
Article 26 - JURY DUTY:
26.01	An employee who is required to serve on a jury will be paid the difference between his regular rate of pay and the fees received from the Court for his service as a juror. Such employee shall be required to report to work on any days he is not required to sit on a jury or remain in the courtroom.
Article 27 - BENEFITS:
18
27.01
27.02
27.03
27.04
27.05
27.06
27.07
27.08
27.09
Weekly Indemnity
Weekly indemnity will be provided to all employees eligible for the health and welfare plan based on sixty six and two thirds (66 2/3%) of individual weekly earnings exclusive of overtime. Weekly Indemnity payments will not exceed the EI maximum payments. The
duration of the weekly indemnity benefit will be 26 weeks.
Long Term Disability
The benefit level of the Long Term Disability plan will cover 50% of the employee’s current weekly rate exclusive of overtime to a monthly maximum of $1,500.00.
Group Life Insurance shall be $28,000 for all employees.
Dental Coverage, basic dental insurance will include denture insurance and plan C.
Coverage will be based on one hundred per cent (100%) of the prevailing fee schedule with a yearly maximum of $1,500.00.
The Company/Employee premium cost split will be 75% - 25% for health and welfare benefits which will include life insurance, weekly indemnity, dental plan, medical and hospital plans.
The Company/Employee premium cost split will be 50% - 50% for the long term disability benefit.
Should the Manitoba Government re-introduce a hospitalization and Medicare premium plan paid by individuals, the Company agrees to share the costs on a 75/25% basis as set out in 27.05 for all employees eligible for the benefit program.
The Company provides an eye care plan that provides a maximum of $100 per employee and eligible dependents to defer the cost of prescription eye wear. The benefit is available once every two years.
The Company and the Union agree that no changes to the current benefit coverage will occur without consent of both parties.
The following employees are eligible for benefits:
To be eligible for coverage an employee must have worked an average of thirty six (36) hours per week in a thirteen (13) consecutive week period between October 1 and May 1. An employee who restricts their availability or who does not submit the required forms will be disqualified. Hours worked for purposes of this clause include Company paid time off (vacations and statutory holidays) and, absence due to illness for more than ten (10) working days.
Students will not be eligible for the benefit plan.
19
If an employee is laid-off and does not work for a period of 30 days, their benefits will be terminated. Upon recall, benefits will be reinstated immediately.
Article 28 - PENSION PLAN
The Company and the Union agree to work with the trustees of the pension plan to establish a revised pension plan that will provide a defined contribution based plan with contributions on the following basis.
The Company will match employee contributions up to a maximum of 3% for employees with up to 5 years service ,
6 to 10 years, 4%
10 years +, 5%
For new employees who start their employment at the new plant, contributions will start after the employee achieves 2 years of service.
Article 29 - TERMINATION:
29.01	This Agreement shall take effect and be binding upon the parties from__________until
the 31th day of October, 20__and shall continue in effect from year to year thereafter,
unless notice of termination or of revision thereof is given by either party, in writing, by registered mail, at least thirty (30) days and not more than ninety (90) days prior to the natural expiration of same, in which case either party may, on ten (10) clear days' notice, in writing, require the other party to enter into negotiations for the renewal of the Agreement within the same period, and both of these notices shall contain an itemized list of all requested changes and these shall be the only items which shall be considered.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto have executed these present and all employees hereby agree to carry out the rules and regulations as laid down by the Company from time to time, to be loyal to the Company, to promote its interests and to support any effort the Company may make to develop and extend its business.
SIGNED AT WINNIPEG, MANITOBA, THIS DAY OF	, 2006.
FOR THE COMPANY
FOR THE UNION
20
Wage Appendix
Hours Worked	0-500	501-1000	1001-1500	1501-2000	2001-3000	3001-4000
Support Team Member	11	11.25	11.5	11.75	12	12.25
Team Member	12.5	12.85	13.2	13.6	14	14.3
Relief	12.75	13.1	13.55	13.85	14.25	14.55
Lead Hand	13.5	12.85	14.2	14.6	15	15.3
Maintenance Journeymen	25				25.5	
Non Ticketed Maintenance	22.5	22.5	22.5	22.5	22.5	22.5
Maintenance Apprentice	55%				65%	
Hours Worked	4001-5000	5001-6000	6001-8000	8001-10,000	10,001-12,000	12,001 +
Support Team	12.5	12.75	13	650.00 lump	13.5	14
21
Member						
Team Member	14.6	14.9	15.2	760.00 lump	15.75	16.5
Relief	14.85	15.2	15.45	790.00 lump	16	16.75
Lead Hand	15.6	15.9	16.2	860.00 lump	16.75	17.5
Maintenance Journeymen	26		1350 lump sum	26.5	1350 lump sum	27
Non Ticketed Maintenance	22.5	22.5	22.5	22.5	22.5	22.5
Maintenance Apprentice			75%	85%		
						
		Support Team Member		Team Member		
		general production, sanitation and assistant shipper		mixer, divider/krd, oven operator, shipper/receive r		
				bread/roll wrap operator		
Effective the 1st of the month following one full year of operation, the following increases will be applied to the top rates of each classification.
1st year, no increase
2nd year, .25 cents hr 3rd year, 2% lump sum 4th year, .25 cents hr 5 th year, 2% lump sum
Lump sum increases will be paid based on regular earnings in the previous 12 months.
November 6, 1997
Mr. H. Marx Business Manager BC&T Local 389 Winnipeg, Manitoba
Dear Mr. Marx:
RE: Floating Public Holiday
22
This letter which is separate and apart from the Collective Agreement confirms the following agreement regarding the floating public holiday referenced in clause 20.01.
New Year’s Day will be designated as the one “floating” public holiday for all eligible employees. However, if future business needs necessitate operating the plant on New Year’s Day, the Company agrees to meet with the Union to discuss options for selecting a different floating public holiday in accordance with clause 20.01.
Sincerely,
Bill Van Oije
Director, Human Resources Weston Bakeries, Western Canada