soutta	Co		
t".	gild S'		d?7
THM.	%w		zb
No. o, ' employees		NO	
. NOMaH ■ O'EMPlOvfs'			
G-8_L_L_E_e_I_I_y-E__a_@_B-E-E_M_E_N_I

WESTON BAKERIES LIMITED, Winnipeg, Manitoba
- and -
BAKERY, C^ONFECTI^ONERY ^ TOBACCO WORKERS
INTERNATIONAL UNION, LOCAL 1389
Effective:	9 May, 1987
Expiry:	30 April, 1990
W-Pl«nt
00 .55/ -
Page 1
Page 3
Page 4 Page S
Page 6
Page 7 Page 3 Page 9
Page JO
Page 11 Page 12
Page 14 Page 16 Page 10
Page 19
Page 20 Page 21 Appendix 1
i_N_e_E_X
• aBIICLE§-QE_aSBggt!EtjI
ygSIQM^eeKEBIES^IMIIEB-iWLGQiefflx^tdaQltgbai
Article 1 Article 2
Article 3
Article 4
Article $
Article 6
Article 7
Article 8 Article 9 Article 10
Article 11
Article 1'2
Article 13
Article 14 Arti cl e 15
Article 16
Article 17 Article 18
Article 19 ■
Article 20
Article 21
Article 22
Article 23 Article 24
Article 23 Article 26 Article 27
Article 23
Scope and Extent
ftecogn11 i on Relationship
Management Rights Right to Transfer
Grievance Procedure
Arbitration
Discharge Cases Management Grievances Continuity cf Operations
Seniority
Vacancies
Safety and Health Bulletin Boards Lunch and Rest Periods
Dismissal and Lay-off Notice Leave cf Absence Coftpassi mats Leave
Uniforms and Whites
Wager
Hours of Work and Overtime, Etc.
Vacations
Sick Leave Severance Pay
Automation Jury Duty Welfare
Termination
Signing Page and Date
Canadian Bakery Confectionery Uniorr“4fid Induafery Pension Fund - Approved Standard Collective SarqaLning Clause (Canada).
BETWEEN:
BAKERIES LIMITED, Winnipeg, Manitoba (hereinafter called "the Company")
- and -
M E BAKERY, CONFECTIONERY AND TOBACCO WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION, LOCAL *399, Winnipeg, Manitoba, (hereinafter called "the Union")
WHEREAS the parties hereto have formulated this Agreement in order to continue and maintain the existing peaceful and harmonious industrial relationship between the Company and its employees, concerning hours of work, rates of pay, working conditions and employer-employee relations generally,
tjQtii.-ItiEBEEeRE^.KdE.eaBIlES.tiEBeiQ-tiayE-tiUIUaULX-aQBEEB.aS-EeUUQtiSi
acUEiea^-sseeg-auB-ixigMii
1.01	This Agrement applies to al I plant employees (herein called the Plant Employees) of the Company, i n the City cf Winnipeg, Manitoba, a6 designated by Certificate #352 c£ the Manitoba Labour Board,--dated February 6, 1952, but does not extend to employees employed «s office staff; or to Company officials vJho act in a confidential or eupervieory capacity. The Company ehall, upon the written request of the Union, mend
to the Union a list of Company official* *o acting and will indicate by appropriate job titles, the nature and extent of their authority.
fltAlfile-2-t-BECP9NITI0N«
2.01	The Plant Employees have selected the Union as their sole and exclusive bargaining agent, and the Company recognize* the Union as such.
2.02	The Company shall recognize the Business Agent of the Union as a representative cf the Plant Employees, and shall extend to h i m every privilege as such.
3.01	All Plant Employees at present employed, vdx> are now member*;©*
the Union, and all plant employees hereinafter employed, shall, from the., date of this Agreement, or within thirty (30) calendar day* of employment', become and remain'1 member* in good «t*nding„of the Union, for the life of this Agreement.
2
3.02	The Company agrees that all n©/v employees shall, on the first day of employment, sign a past-dated application for membership in the Union, effective thirty (30) calendar days later, which shall provide for Company deduction of Union initiation fees, dues and assessments. For the convenience of the Company, application forms shall be supplied by the secretary of the Union.
3.03	The Company shall deduct from the pay of each plant employee who so requests the Company, in writing, to do so, all Union initiation fees, dues and assessments uniformly applied.
All such deductions for Union fees, dues and assessments shall be taken from the first pay period of the month.
3.0s	All sums deducted, together with a record of those from v\hcm
such deductions have been made, and the amount, shall be forwarded to the Secretary Treasurer of the Union not later than the twentieth (20th) day of the calendar month in which such deductions are made
3.06	The Company shall supply the Union, at least once per month, with the names cf all new employees and those having left the service of the Company.
help shall be required, the Company shall notify the Union of its requirements and the Union shall endeavour to send competent, personnel to the Company, but the Company shall not be obliged to engage anyone so sent by the Union.
3.06	The terms and conditions, as negotiated by the parties, of this Agreement shall apply to a I I plant employees and no alteration of wages, increase i n hour6 of labour, or changes in working conditions shall be made to any plant employees without p ri o r discussion w i t h the Union or its representat i/es.
3.09	(a) The Company will permit the Chief Steward cf the Plant-to enter any department to conduct business on behalf of the Union, provided he first notifies the department head and further provided he does not unduly take up the time of employees at work.
<b) The Business Representative of the Union will be permitted to visit the Plant to conduct Union Business, provided permission i* first obtained from the General Manager, or Production Manager, and further provided such visit does not interfere with production or the work of employees.
3.10	Recognized supervisors and foremen will not perform work that is performed by regular employee® within the bargaining unit, except:
<a) when performing development or experimental work;
<b) when checking production on any operation;
3
Qcfei£l§_3 <Cant'd >
employees are not available for work due to being late for work or absent from the plant;
<d) in cases of emergency.
NOTE: The terms of this section shall be subject to the grievance procedure.
3.11	Where used in this Agreement, the term "emergency" shall be defined as any circumstance occurring which is beyond the control of the Company, and may become the subject of discussion between the parties.
3.12	The Company agrees to display a Union plaque on the Company premises.
acUcl.e_4_=_tjatjQggtiEfcjI_ei@HISi
4.01	Except where specifically abridged by the terms of this Agreement, it i s the exclusive function of the Company to:
<a> Maintain order, discipline and efficiency;
<b)	Hire, discharge, transfer, promote, demote or discipline
employees, provided that a claim of discriminatory promotion, demotion or transfer, or a claim that a nan-probationary employee has been discharged without reasonable cause, nay be the subject of e grievance and dealt with as hereinafter provided*
<c)	Manage, control, continue, in whole or in part, the indus-
trial enterprise i n which the Company is engaged.
ArticLe_5_=_BIGUI_XQ-IBeySEEBi
5.01	Notwithstanding the provisions embodied i n Agreements entered into between the Company and:
(1) Bakery. Confectionery and Tobacco Workers International Union, Local 3B9	Certificate
M.L.B. 41352
(2) Retail, Wholesale Bakery Workers’ Union, Local 895
Certificate M.L.B. 4t659
It is agreed that the Company may, from time to time, at its sole discretion, for compassionate or similar reasons, transfer any employee to or from any part of the Company's operations in the Province of Manitoba.
- 4 -
Arti.cl.e_5 (Cant'd)
5.02.	Provided he has at least twenty (20) years' service with the
Company, and does not displace any employee then with five (5) years or more of service in the new unit, he shall be accepted into the new unit with five (5) years' seniority.
fiCti£ig_6_r_6RlEVay£E-PBQG£DUREi
A grievance is a difference arising between an employee and/or the Union and the Company, as to the meaning or application of any provision of the Agreement. Unless agreed to by both the Company and the Union, no grievance shall be processed, should the alleged circumstances have originated or occurred more than thirty (30) calendar days prior to its original presentation i n writing. No grievance shall be processed the Union on behalf of an employee without the employee the Union of such proceeding.
6.02	I f a complaint or question should arise, which is not settled to the satisfaction of the employee or employees concerned, after discussion with the immediate -foreman concerned, or the superintendent i n the absence of the foreman, within one (1) working day, or within any such longer period as may be mutually agreed upon the time, then the following steps o-f the grievance procedure shall be invoked, in order:
6.03	Stes-tii
The Production Manager or his designate rc&j confer with not less than three (3) representatives of the Grievance Committee of the employees and settle the grievance, subject to the confirmation of the management o-f the Company, and i-fffhe grievance i s not settled with in three working days to the satisfaction o-f the employees, representatives may appeal to the General Manager of the Company, but the employees must carry out the! orders of the Production	Manager or	his	designate,	pending	the	appeal.
6.04	§tea_i!2t
ITthe grievance is not then settled, the Union shall state the grievance in writing and deliver a copy to the General Manager or his designate requesting a meeting which-will be held within two (2) working days or such longer time as may tie mutually agreed upon. At this meeting, the Business Agent of the Union maj be present i f his presence is requested by either party.
6.05	No Company	official	shall	take	up	a	grievance	personally	with
any affected employee without a Shop Steward being present, once the grievance has been formally lodged, in writing, by the Grievance Committee.
- 5
6cii£i§_* <Cont'd)
6. Ob	Sjtee_|t3:.
If the grievance is not settled at the meeting held under Step #2, the grievance shall be discussed within a further period of five <5) working days, between a the General Manager of the Company or his designate and a representative of the Union, who shall meet and attempt to reach a settlement.
Any arrangement or decision agreed to under the foregoing steps shall be confirmed and set forth i n writing, and be binding upon the Union, the Company, and the employee or employees concerned.
6.00	A grievance committee, not exceeding three <3) employees, shall be paid for time lost from work during regular working hours while processing and discussing grievances of employees with representatives of the Company. Meetings to discuss grievances shall be held during regular office hours of the Company.
ArticIg_7_-_ARBiTBQTIQNl
7.01	Should the parties fail to reach an agreement under the -foregoing procedure, either party may refer the matter to arbitration. In such event, the requesting party shall, within <10> working days of completion of the steps referred to above, serve written notice on the other party by registered mail of its request, stating the matter to be arbitrated.
7.02	The requesting party shall then notify the other party, in writing, within five <5> working days, of its serving such notice, of the name of the person to represent i t as an arbitrator, and the receiving party shall, within five <5> working days of receipt of such name, notify the requesting party of the name of its arbitrator. The two arbitrators so named shall then meet and attempt to settle the dispute, and failing agreement, they shall, within five <5) working days after their last meeting, name an impartial representative to assist them in settling the dispute. The two persons named and the impartial representative, shall form a Board of Arbitration, herein called "the Board", and the impartial representative shall act as Chairman of the Board. Should the two arbitrators fail to agree on the choice of the impartial representative, the Minister of Labour for the Province of Manitoba shall be asked to select such person. The majority decision of the Board shall be final and binding upon both parties.
7.03	The Board of Arbitration shall have jurisdiction and authority only to interpret, apply or determine compliance with the provisions of this Agreement insofar as shell be necessary to the determination of grievances appealed to the Board, but the Board shall not have jurisdiction or authority to add to, deduct from, or alter i n any way, the provisions of t h is Agreement.
6
A-r-t-icle-Z (Cant'd)
7.04	The Baard of Arbitration shall adopt its own procedure for determining the matter in dispute.
7.05	No person shall be appointed as an Arbitrator who has been involved in any attempt to settle the grievance. The cost of the arbitrators appointed by the Company and the Union shall be borne by each party respectively, and the cost of the third member of the Board shall be borne equally by the Company and the Union.
£5Cfeiclg_8_-_DISCU£BQg_QQ§g§i	6 0*4^ •
The Union will not qu^tian the dismissal of any employee emp-toyfcd for lees than thirty (SB/ working days.
e. 02	A claim by a non-probationary employee that he has been unjustly
dismissed from employment, shall be treated as a grievance, only if a written statement to that effect is lodged with the Winnipeg Manager of the Company within five <5) working days of the employee being given notice of dismissal. Such special grievances may be settled by confirming the Management's action in dismissing the employee, or by reinstatement of the employee with full compensation for time lost, or by any other arrangement which, in the opinion of the parties, i s fair and reasonable.
aru£i.e_2_-_aeNeegtiEyi_iBiiY6MQE§t
9.01	it is understood that the management of the Company may bring forward at any meeting with the employees' Grievance Committee, any complaint with respect to the conduct of the Union, its officers, committeemen or stewards, and that if such complaint by management is not settled to the mutual satisfaction of the conferring parties, it msy be treated a5 a grievance and referred to arbitration i n the same way as the grievance c£ an employee.
acticU-iS-=-.CQNXINUm„BE_BEiBaiIQy§i
10.01	There shall be no strike, slow-down or stoppage c£ work on the part of the Union, or any employee, and there shall be no lockout by the Company during the life of this Agreement, or during the period stipulated by Manitoba Law, for the negotiation of a new Agreement.
A shut-down occasioned by any cause beyond control of the Company, or by any changes in method of operation, shall not constitute a lockout,
10.03 Any employee who contravenes the provisions of this Article may be subject to discharge by the Company and, if discharged, may have recourse to the grievance procedure.
7
£cti£ls_n_r_ SENIORITY!
11.01	Employees shall be considered on probation and shall not be
entitled to seniority rights until they have completed thirty (30) working days' service with the Company. Upon completion of the probationary period, seniority shall be dated from the date of employment. During an employee' s probationary period, he shall be considered as being employed an a trial basis and may be discharged or laid off at the discretion of the Company and neither such employee nor the Union shall have recourse to grievance or arbitration procedures. Employees who restrict: their availability shall not accumulate seniority. This shall not prevent seniority already accrued from being used in recall from lay-off.
As of the first week of MI^ and the first week of October of each year, the Company shall prepare and maintain a seniority list; such list shall be posted on the Company bulletin boards or will otherwise be made available far the employees to examine on request. A copy of all seniority lists will be mailed to the Union office. The classification of employees as of the date of preparation of seniority lists will be shown an the said seniority lists.
11.03	Promotions, transfers, demotions, upgradings, layoff and recalls from layoffs will normally be based upon seniority, provided there is equality of skill, ability and physical fitness amongst the eligible employees.
11.04	All employees may exercise their seniority rights and shall be entitled to a trial period of up to thirty (30) working days in layoffs, recalls from layoffs, transfers, reduction in staff for any reason, or when making applications for vacancies posted on the bulletin board. The, rate of pay applicable during such trial, period shall be that of the rate the employee was earning prior to the trial period commencing, except that where the cl assi f 1 cati on rate at which the employee is working during the trial period is less, then the lesser rate shall apply. Where a trial period is applicable, training will be provided.
11.05	Where it is found necessary to generally reduce the working force, seniority of all plant employees will be the guiding factor, so long as it does not prevent the Company from maintaining a workable farce of employees who are qualified and willing to do the work which is available.
11.06	An employee laid off in accordance with 11.05 above will, if he had six (6) months or less c£ seniority at the time of layoff, retain the seniority he had and the right to be recalled for a period of six (6) months. If he had more than nix (6) months of seniority at the time of layoff, he will retain the seniority he had and the right of recall for a period equal to this seniority, but not exceeding twelve <121 consecutive months. An employee who is working at a full-time jab when recalled shall first contact the Company as soon as possible and then shall report €or work within seven <7) days. However, if the employee is not working at a
a
fiCtiSle_l1 (Cont'd)
full - time job, he shall first contact the Company as soon as possible and then shall report for*work within three (3) days. Failure to report for work within the time limits set out herein shall mean an employee shall forfeit any claim to recall. Any recalls shall, if made by telephone, be immediately confirmed by registered mail or telegram addressed to the last known address on record with the Company.
11.07	Where the Company is unable to contact an employee by telephone
who is eligible for recall following layoff, the Company may call the next eligible employee. Where the said recall does not involve the first eligible employee and is far more than one <1> working day, the Chief Steward will be notified of the circumstanees.
fit:feiclg_i2_r_yacANCiESj.
When new positions are created or a vacancy occurs, including lead hand vacancies, the Company agrees to post a notice of such vacancy where all employees may see same. Such notice shall remain posted for a minimum of three <3) working days. Senior employees applying for same shall be given preference. All applications shall be made in writing and a copy handed to the Chief Steward.
<b) All full— t ime job vacancies shall be posted.
(c) Posted jobs shall be those that are vacated, for example Oven Operator (Bread).
12.02	Where there is a possibility of a job being awarded other than by seniority, it is agreed that an appointed committee of three (3) Stewards shall meet with the management and review the applications, it being understood that no employee shall serve on the committee while his own case is being dealt with.
12.03	Successful applicants shall be put on the job within eight working days, provided the job is in operation and unless agreement is reached to extend this period of time.
Successful applicants for a job posting who fail to qualify shall revert to their original job.
If, during the currency hereof, it is deemed necessary by the Company to create a new job or classification, not at present classified herein, the wage rate therefor shall be negotiated by the parties prior to i t s posting.
9
Arti.cig_.12 (Cant'd.)
12.06	Any employee who may be absent due to illness, vacation or leave of absence or worker's compensation may, within five (5) days upon return to work, submit an application for a job that has been posted.
12.07	Where possible, preference will be given to senior helpers for vacation and part-time re I i ef i n higher classifications.
acUcLe_i3_2_§AEEiy_fiUD_HEAUIti!
13.01	The Company shall make every effort to provide all safeguards necessary for the health and comfort of the employees, and the employees shall endeavour at all times to promote cleanliness and safety.
Upon mutual request of the parties hereto, or by request of the Company, any or all employees shall be subject to a physical examination by a competent physician at the Company's expense.
Acti£ie_i4_r_£yysgiitLggA5BSi
14.01	The Company W i I I provide b u 11 et i n boards in mutually satisfactory locations throughout the plant for the convenience of the Union in posting notices of Union activity. All such notices must be signed by the proper officer of the local Union.
15.01	No employee shall be required to go for lunch before completing three and one-half (3 1/21 hours' of work, nor shall any employee be required to exceed four- And one-half (4 1/21 hours' work without a meal period, Meal periods shall be thirty <30) minutes w i t h o u t pay..
15.02	A rest period of ten <10) minutes shall be allowed, without deduction of pay, to each employee at approximately mid-nay in each half shift. Any employee \AfD works eight and one-half (0 1/21 hours, but not mare than nine <9) hours in any one day shall, after the completion of seven and one-half <7 1/21 hours, be entitled to a third 10-minute rest period and, if the work day is more than nine <9) hours, then the third rest period shall be twenty (20) minutes. It is understood that in lieu of the third lO-minute rest period the Company may elect to pay 15 minutes at straight time.
15.03	(a) An employee who, through some action on the part of a Company Supervisor, does not receive a lunch break will be paid three dollars and fifty cents <43.SO) for any lunch break so missed, in addition to .pay for the extra thirty <30> minutes he has worked.
(b) An employee who does not receive rest periods during the •regularly scheduled shift because of some action on the pert of a Company Supervisor will be paid one dollar and twenty-five cents (*1.25) for each rest period so missed.
10
Articlo_i6_-_DISMISSAL_AND_LAV-gFF_NgTICEi
16.01	Except in the case of cause, all employees employed by the Company for more than thirty (30) working days, shall be entitled to one-week's notice before dismissal, and the employee shall give the Company one (1) week's notice before severing employment with the Company. Failure on the part of any employee to observe the terms of this clause shall be deemed to be a breach of this Agreement, and the employer shall be entitled to retain and use for his cwn purpose, any monies due to such employee, up to and including one week's wages.
A I I warnings, lay- off and dismissal notices shall be given by the Company, in writing, with reasons given, and a copy provided to the Shop Steward.
16.03	Regular employees who are laid off, and who have not severed their employment with the Company, shall receive one (1) week's notice, or pay in lieu thereof. Regular employees shall be defined as any employee employed as regular help for more than thirty (30) working days. If the Company requires an employee to continue working one (1) week or more after the original one week's notice has expired, the employee shall then be entitled to a further one <1> weeks' notice of lay-off.
6dticlg_17. - LEAVE DF ABSENCE!
The Company w i I I grant leave of absence without pay, to employees who are appointed or elected to union office, for a period up to and including one <i> year. Further leave of absence may be granted by mutual consent. The employee who obtains this leave of absence shall return to h i 5 Company w i t h i n thirty (30) calendar days after the completion of his term.of employment with the Union.
17.02	The Company w i I I grant leave of absence without pay to employees who are elected as representatives to attend Union meetings and Union conventions, in order that they may carry out their duties on behalf of the Union.
17.03	In order for the employer to replace the employee with a competent substitute, it is agreed that before the employee receives this leave of absence, as set forth in clauses 17.01 and 17.02 above, the employer will be given due notice, in writing; in the case of 17.01, twenty (20) calendar days, and in the case of 17.02, five (5> calendar days.
Arti£le_ie_-_COMEaSSigNaiE_LEAVEi
Permanent employees who, through Illness, are compelled to leave work during the course of a day, shall receive full pay for the whole of such day, providing they have worked at least four and one-half <4 1/21 hours.
Articlg_^e (Cant'd)
18.02	An employee who ha5 completed the probationary period shall be entitled to not more than three (3) consecutive days' leave of absence with pay in the event of the death of the employee's father, mother, sister, brother;.child, father-in-law or mother-in-law, to attend the (nourrii'ng	...t^aneral. Only that portion of the three (3) days
that would ot . ««*#&%iVe''Deen time worked will be paid. Additional leave without pay will be granted up to a maximum of four (4) consecutive days if such leave is justified.
18.03	The Company may grant written leave of absence to any employee for legitimate personal reasons. Such leave, when granted by the Company, shall be without pay and with accumulation of seniority.
acfei£ig_19_-_yb!IF0RMS_AND_yHriESi
Except for Transport Drivers and Special Delivery, employees who are required by the Company to wear uniforms shall have such uniforms supplied and laundered by the Company. The existing ractice regarding uniforms for female employees - i.e., the type of uniform, shall remain in effect. White uniforms for male employees shall consist of a T-shirt and trousers with three (3) such uniforms being supplied each calendar year. Transport drivers and special delivery drivers shall pay 25% of the cost of their uniforms and tne company the balance of the fuflowing alotment:
1	heavy jacket (each 2 years)
3 pairs of pants (annually)
5 shirts
2	caps
2 jackets
Such uniforms shall be new and kept in good repair.
19.02	Transport Drivers, Special Delivery, etc. shall pay twenty-five per cent (25%) of the cost: of their uniforms and the Company the balance.
19.03	The Company shall supply and launder aprons for such of the employees as the Company shall consider requires them.
WEE >1 BAKERIES LIMITED
12
SctiEle_20_=_yAgESi
20.01	(a) The Company covenants and shall pay all employees employed by it,
pursuant to this Agreement, not less than the following schedule of wages, durin such time as thia Agreement is in forcei	.	/;
Glassification
Bough Operator Operator
Div±<
' "trapping
Machine Oper.
erator
lng
Hourly
*15.03
14.97
Weakly -Ralc_
*550.46
S46*44
Hourly
_£La±j0_
*15.43
15.37
Weekly
-Rale..
*565.06
561.04
Hourly _Rat£i_
*15.00
15.77
*579.^ 575. i
Other Production Mach. Opsr.
(Roll) — a trr’/}ntWtf7Z
.ietant Dough Operator
Shipper and Receiver
14.78	539.51
14.93	544.98
14.97	546.44
15.18	554.11
15.33	559.58
15.37	561.04
15.58	568.7
15.73	574.1
15.77	575.6
Checker
Utility
Maintenance, 5th Cl. Cert.
Maintenance^ Mechanic -* Auto & Truck Mechanic
3ity Del i very ■lei per
fard Attendant UjrfTnerh.
toll Pack tk •Rapper
14.89
14.91
15.70
15.13
14.93
14.67
14.53
543.52
544.25
573.09
552.28
544.98
535.49
530.38
15.29	558.12
15.31	558.85
16.10	587.69
15.53	566.88
15.33	559.58
15.07	550.09
14.93	544.98
15.69	572.7
15.71	573.4
16.50	602.2
15.93	581.46
15.73	574.16
15.47	564.6*}
15.33	559. sa
13
Qc£iEig_20 (Cant'd)
b) except where previous experience warrants a higher starting rate, any employee will be hired at 25'/, below the rate of his assigned classification. At the end of 130 days worked, he will receive the full classification rate.
20. 02	Iransbqct_Dri.vers_XCountryii
Effective	Effective	Effective
May_lJ._1992	tjay_.U_i2§§	C3ay„ix_i2@2
♦563.14	$577.74	*592.34
In addition to the above basic rate of pay, Transport Drivers shall be paid a mileage allowance as follows:
1600 to 2400 Kilometers per week -	1.875c per kilometer;
Over 2400 Kilometers per week	-	2.5c per kilometer
for kilometers driven in excess of 2400.
The hours of work and overtime provisions contained in this Agreement shall not apply to transport drivers.
<c) All transport shall be equipped with first-aid kits and
flares.
Transport Drivers shall not be required to load a trailer
at home base.
(e) A Transport Driver who is delayed away from the home base because of breakdown or weather conditions, shall have all reasonable expenses for meals and accommodation paid by the Company.
20.03	(a) A Lead Hand, designated as such by the Company to direct
the work of others, may assist: in scheduling and assigning work to employees and for seeing that such employees produce the quantity and quality of work required by the Company. He shall not have any authority to hire or discharge employees or t o exercise any disciplinary action.
<b) A Lead Hand, shall, be paid not leas than *10.00 per week above the rate of the highest classification he ia required to lead. Where the rate of a Lead Hand is eurrenty higher than referred to herein, his rate shall not be reduced to conform with the amount set out above.
- 14 -
Arti.cl.e_20 (Cant'd)
20.3	<c) Indirect production a Lead Hand shall not replace
any employee in his classification for more than eight <0) hours in a week in addition to relieving for rest periods, lunch periods or when regular employees are absent from the Plant due to being late for work or absent from work.
Lead Hands shall not be granted any seniority preference over other employees.
20.04	An employee required to work fifty per cent (SO*/.) or more of the hours in a work week in one or more cl assif i cations will be paid for the full week at the highest rated classification i n which he has worked. For any hours less than fifty per cent <50‘/.) of the weekly hours, he shall be paid the appropriate pro-rated hourly rate except that this shall not apply for short periods c£ less than one <1) hour.
20. OS Any employee required temporarily to take the place of a lower— rated employee shall not have hi5 wages reduced.
20.06 If any part c£ an employee's shift falls between the hours of 9s00 p.m. and 6:00 am, he shall be considered a Night Worker and shall be paid twenty cents <20c) per hour in addition to his regular rate for all hours worked.
ActisLe_2l_=_HDyBg_eE_WQRK_at^QY£RnME.1._EICii
21.01	The following shall be defined as public holidays, for which all employees shall be paid:
Labour Day,
Thanksgiving Day,
Remembrance Day,
Christmas Day,
Boxing Day.
and all other holidays declared by the Dominion, Provincial or Municipal Governments.
New Year's Day, Good Friday, Victoria Day, Domi ni on Day,
Ci v i c Hoi i day,
one-half <36 1/21
rided into anv. a public or st
hours per
\/« (5) :utory
21.02	Employees shalI work thirty-six and
week, herein called the "regulation hours':, days, herein called the “regulation,tJays".
holiday occurs during any part ot”the calendar week, the regulation hours and the regulation days shall be reduced by one-fifth (1/Sth) for each holiday therein.
15
Article 21 (Cont‘ d. >
21.03	(a! Shift schedules showing the normal starting times and anticipated finishing times will be posted at least forty-eight <4Q> hours in advance o£ the end of the work week of the employees affected. Except in the case of emergency, shift schedules shall not be changed unless forty-eight (48) hours' notice is given to the employee affected.
<b> All employees shall have at least twelve (12) hours off between the end cf a shift and the start of the next.
(c) Employees shall have two (2) days off together which shall be Friday-Saturday, or Saturday-Sunday, or Sunday-Monday, and shall have fifty-two (52) hours off work where the two consecutive days apply. The consecutive days off set out herein may not apply to maintenance and cleaning employees; however, they shall have two (2) days off together under the same provision set above.
<d> No employee except the Sponge Operator shall be required to commence work earlier than 9t00 p.m. on Christmas Day and New Year's Day unless mutually agreed between the Company and the Union.
21.04	(a) No employee shall be called upon to work more than seven and one-half (7 1/2) hours i n any one day, unless paid time and one-half for all hours worked i n excess thereof up to nine (9) hours with double time, thereafter, provided that both daily and weekly overtime shall not be paid far the same hours. Such extra hours worked shall not be included in computing the regulation hours.
<b) An employee required to work overtime will be given notice of at least one (1) hour.
21.05	Employees'who are called in to work for regular shift hours shall be paid for not less than six (6) hours.
21.06	If an employee is absent during the regulation/week without valid reason for any part of h i s scheduled work, he shall be paid overtime only on a weekly basis.
21.07	Any employee who works in excess of the regulation hours in a week, shall be paid at the rate of time and one-half his regular rate for all such extra hours worked, subject to the provisions of clause 21.04.
21.08	Any employee who shall work in excess of the regulation days shall be paid at the rate of two and one-half (2 1/21 times his regular rate for ouch extra hours worked, provided, however, that such extra hours shall not be included in computing the regulation hours.
21.09	Except in case of emergency, or immediately prior to a double or triple holiday, no employee shall be called upon to work more than nine (9) hours i n any one day.
16
fiCticle_21 (Cant'd)
Any contemplated change of a major nature, i n the schedule of working hours, shall be brought to the attention of the Union, at least one week before such change i s made effective, and the Union shall have the right to make such representations as it may deem proper.
21.11 All employees except Transport Drivers shall be required to punch a time clock.
21.12	An employee who has left the Company premises and who is then called in to work outside his regular working hours to meet emergency conditions, shall receive not less than the equivalent of four (4) hours' pay at time and one-half.
6cfelcle_22_-_yeCAIIQfvjSi
22.01	Vacations with pay will be granted by the Company in accordance with the following:
(a)	Twelve (12) months service,
continuous or collective
(b) Three (3) years of service <c> Eight <8> years of service
<d) Thirteen (13) years of service <e> Eighteen, (18) years c£ service <f) Twenty-three (23) years of service
two < 2) weeks; three (3) weeks: four (4) weeks; five < 5) weeks; six (6) weeks; seven (7) weeks.
22.02	I n the fi rst year an employee qualifies for a third week of vacation, the employee shall, by request, be granted a three <3> week vacation to run consecutively.
22.03	Apart from the exception set out in 22.02 above, the three (3) weeks' vacation will normally be scheduled in two <2> periods, one of fourteen (14) consecutive days within the regular vacation period, and the other of seven (7) consecutive days at some time outside the regular vacation period.
22.04	The four (4) weeks' vacation shall be taken a5 follows:
la) Twenty-one (21) consecutive days within the regular vacation period, and the other seven (7) consecutive days at some time outside the regular vacation period:
- or -
<b) At the request of the employee, twenty-eight (28) consecutive days at some time outside the regular vacation period.
- 17
A.uJcie-22 <Cor\t'd)
22.05 Employees with less than twelve (12) months' service will be paid vacation pay pro-rated in accordance with the amount of time worked up to the cut-off date.
The regular vacation period shall be from May 1st to September 30th each year. However, this shall not preclude an employee from making a mutually satisfactory arrangement with his supervisor or foreman to take all or part of his vacation at a time other than the normal vacation period.
The vacation list shall be posted not later than April 1st of each year, and should a vacation period become vacant, after the holiday list has been posted, such vacancy shall be posted immediately.
Choice of vacation periods shall be granted according to seniority.
22.09	If a public or statutory holiday occurs during an employee's vacation, the employee shall be entitled" to one (i) extra day of "vacation or he may elect to receive one (1) day's pay in lieu thereof. The arrangement for the extra day's vacation or pay in lieu thereof shall be made with the employee's foreman before the employee commences his vacat ion.
22.10	All employees shall take their vacations annually.
22;11 The cut-off date for accumulating service for vacations with pay shall be. September 30tti of each year.
22.12	An employee who works six <61 months or more in the year prior to hie vacation in a higher rated c 1 a s s i f i c at i o n, will have hie vacation pay pro-rated in accordance with such time worked.
22.13	An employee will be allowed up to three <3) months' absence due to illness or eaffipsnslbl e injury during the vacation year without any deduction being made from his vacation pay. However,, should such absence exceed three (3> months, his vacation pay will then be pro-rated for such excess absence only on the basis of a full year's credits. Should absence due to illness or eompensible injury cover the entire vacation year, the employee shall not be eligible for vacation pay. An employee who is on leave for reasons other than set out above, shall have his vacation pay pro-rated in accordance with time lost due to such leave of absence.
"Vacation year" shall mean Hay lstto April 30thf inclusive.
22.14	Vacation pay for transport drivers shall be based on the applicable weekly rate plus average mileage allowance paid during the vacation year.
- IB -
23.01	Regular full-time employees who have completed three <3> consecutive months of employment shall be paid sick leave benefits at the rate of one-half <i/2) day far each full month worked to a maximum of nine <91 days. Sick leave pay shall only apply to the second and third working day of any illness except that, i-fan employee i s absent due to illness for more than seven <7) calendar days, then the first day will be paid, provided there i s sufficient benefits credited to the employee.
no event shall the wages paid by the Company and monies received from weekly Indemnity exceed a regular day's pay.
If the Company requests verification of illness, the employee shall be required to provide suitable verification, such as an authentic medical certificate. The Company will bear the cost of such certificate upon proof of such costs.
23.04	An employee, if found abusing this privilege, may be disciplined by the Company. The Company may discontinue or reduce the benefit to the employee.
24.01	In the event of amalgamation, permanent closure of plant or department thereof, or automation causing regular full-time employees to lase employment, regular full-time employees will be paid severance pay as follows, in addition-to the regular week's notice, or pay in lieu thereof to which employees may be entitled.
<a) Over two ' (2) years k up to
ten (10) years of continuous, service.
One (1) week's pay for each full two <2> years of service;
<b> Over ten <10) years and up to twenty <20> years of continuous service.
One (1) week for each full year of continuous service in excess of ten <10) years to a maximum of twenty (20) full years of service.
NOTE:	The amount set out in <b> to be paid in addition to the
amount set out in (al.
24.02	An employee who loses his employment in accordance with the terms hereof may elect to receive his severance pay a5 soon as passible or he may elect t o be placed on a recall list, subject to recall in a^orandance with the terms of the seniority provisions of this Agreement. employee elects to receive his severance pay as soon as possible after
- 19 -
BcticleJ? 3 (Cant'd)
losing employment or at any time during the recall period, he shall forfeit any claim to employment with the Company. An employee who elects to be placed on a recall list and who is not recalled within twelve (12) months, shall be paid the severance pay to which he was entitled at the time he lost hi 5 employment.
Arti£le_25^r_aUIQt!AIIONi
Where the Company introduces automatic equipment or any new technology which may cause regular full-time employees to lose their employment, the Company will meet with and advise the Union a5 far in advance as pratlcabls of the particular situation and its expected impl ications.
Articlg»26_-_aUBV_DUD;i
26.01	An employee who is required to serve on a jury will be paid the difference between his regular rate of pay and the fee’s received from the Court for his service as a juror. Such employmee shall be required to report for work on any days or half days he is not required to sit on a jury or remain in the courtroom.
Article 27 - wfi farf:
27.01	Weekly Indemnity shall be based upon two - thirds <2/3rds) earnings
to a maximum cf $318.00 per week or 607. of the U.I.C. maximum whichever Is greater. Effective May l, 1988, this shall become $325.00 per week or 60*/. of the U.I.C. maximum whichever is greater.	_
27.02 Group Life Insurance shall be $21,000 for all employees, This shall increase to $22,000 effective May I, 1938 and $23,000 effective May 1, 1989.
27.03	(a) As soon as it can be arranged, the present Basic Dental
Insurance Plan will be amended to provide for denture insurance.
Effective May 1, 1989 the Plan C plan will be implemented with	increased
costs above the current Plan E? to be	borne 60V. by the employer	and	40V.	by
the employee.
(b) Dental Insurance coverage shall be based on one hundred per cent (100%)of the prevailing fee schedule.
<c) Effective July 1 , 1977, all new employees, as soon as they become eligible, shall enroll in the Dental Insurance Plan.
All present employees with Dental Insurance coverage shall remain in the Plan.	.
<©) Effective May 1, 1973,	all employees not enrolled in	the
Dental Insurance Plan shall be given	the opportunity to do so,
- 20 -
Article_27 (Cant'd)
27.04	The Company w i I I pay seventy-five per cent (757) of the premium costs of Weekly Indemnity, Group Life Insurance, Basic Dental Insurance Plan and Hospitalization and Medicare Premiums, should they be re-introduced.
27.05	(a) Pensions will be $500.00 per month and increased to $525.00
per month, effective May l, 1908 and w i I I become $575.00 monthly effective May 1, 1909, with the premiums for the pension not to exceed sixty-five cents <65c> per week for each ten dollars ($10.00) of pension benefit.
The pension agreement between the Company and the Union shall be part of this Agreement and appears as Appendix 1 attached hereto.
<b) The Company will i <i>
(ii>
to the Manitoba Pension Commission to implement a Plan C type plan, effective May 1,	1983;
<
investigate the costs of implementing a Plan C type plan at a cost not to exceed 20c per hour.
If these two conditions cannot be met, then the Company w i I I discuss alternative p«n«ion changes to be effective not before Hay i,
20.01 This Agreement shall take effect-and be binding upon the parties ■from the date hereof, until the 30th dav of Anril. 1990 and shall continue in effect from year to year thereafter, unless notice of termination or of revision thereof is given by either party, in writing, by registered mail, at least thirty <30) days and not more than ninety (90) days prior to the natural expiration of same, i n which case either party may, on ten (10) clear days' notice, in writing, require the other party to enter into negotiations for the renewal of the Agreement within the same period, and both of these notices shall contain an itemized list of all requested changes and these shall be the only items which shall be considered.
- 21
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto have executed these present and all employees hereby agree to carry out the rules and regulations as laid down by the Company from time to time, to be loyal to the Company, to promote its interests and to support any effort the Company may make to develop and extend its business.
SIGNED AT WINNIPEG, MANITOBA, THIS__________DAY OF_________________, 1987.
ESB_IHE_cgtjeeNX
EQB_IbE_UNIQN

CANADIAN BAKERY AND CONFECTIONERY UNION AND	APPENDIX I
__________INDUSTRY PENSION FUND____________
APPROVED STANDARD COLLECTIVE BARGAINING CLAUSE _____________________(CANADA)__________________
The undersigned enployer and Local Union represent that the only agreement between the said Local Union and Enployer regarding pensions or retirement for enployees covered by the Collective Bargaining Agreement between the Load Union and the Employer is as follow'
1*	(a) Ccrrmencing with the 20th day of September 1970, and for the duration of the
current Collective Bargaining Agreement, between the said Ldcai Union and h.-ployer and any renewals or extensions thereof, the Employer agrees to make payments to the Canadian Bakery and Confectionery Union and the Industry Pension Fund for each employee working in job classifications covered by the said Collective Bargaining Agreement as follows:
For each day or portion thereof, for which an employee subject to the Collective Bargaining Agreement, receives pay, the Employer shall make a contribution of $6,175 to the above named Pension Fund, but not more tfran$30.88 per week for any one employee.
Effective May i, 1987, the contribution rate shall be $6,50 per day, but not more than $32.50 per week for any one employee.
Effective My 1, 1988 the contribution rate shall.be $6.83 per day, but not mere than$34.13 per week for any one employee.
Effective My 1, 1989 the contribution rate shall be $7.48 per day, but not more than $37.38 per week for any one enployee.
For the purposes of this Article, it is understood that contributions shall be payable on behalf of enployees from the first day of employment, whether said enployees are permanent, temporary or seasonal, or full-time or parttime employees and regardless of whether or not they aremedbers of the Union.
It is further understood that each day paid for, including days of paid vacation, paid holidays, and other days for which pay is received by the employee in accordance with the Collective Bargaining Agreement, shall be counted as days for which contributions are payable.
(b) The Enployer hereby agrees to become a party to the Agreement and Declaration of Trust, September 7, 1979, establishing the said Canadian Bakery and Confectionery Union and Industry Pension Fund, and agrees to be bound by all terms and provisions of said Agreement, a copy of which is to be hereafter annexed hereto and made a part hereof. The Employer further agrees irrevocable to designate as its representatives on the Board of Trustees of the Fund such Trustees as are named in said Agreement and Declaration of Trust as Erployer Trustees, together with their successors selected in the manner provided in the said Agreement, and agrees to be bound by all action taken by the said Employer Trustees pursuant to the said Agreement and Declaration of Trust.
CANADIAN BAKERY AND CONFECTIONERY UNION AND
INDUSTRY_PENSION_EUND________________________ APPENDIX, 1
APE’5‘QyED_STANDARD_COLLECIiyE_BARGAJ[NI NG CLAUSE
(canadaT
The undersigned Employer and Local Union represent that the only agreement between the said Local Union and Employer regarding pensions or retirement for employees covered by the Collective Bargaining Agreement between the Local Union and the Employer is as follows:
1.	<a)	Commencing with the 20th day of September 1970, and for the
duration of the current Collective Bargaining Agreement, between the said Local Union and Employer and any renewals or extensions thereof, the Employer agrees to make payments to the Canadian bakery and Confectionery Union and the Industry Pension Fund for each employee working in job classifications covered by the said Collective Bargaining Agreement as fal lows:
For each day or portion thereof, for which an employee subject to the Collective Bargaining jAgreerrent,„r_eceives pay, the Employer shall make a contribution of C$6.5£j. to the above named Pension Fund, but not more than $32.50 per week for any one j.
employee.
Effective May 1, 1909, the contribution rate shall be $6.03 per day, but not more than *34.13 per week for any one employee.
Effective May 1, 1909, the contribution rate shall be $7.40 per day but not more than $37.38 per week for any one employee.
For the purposes of this Article, it is understood that contributions shall be payable on behalf of employees from the first day of employment, whether said employees are permanent, temporary or seasonal, or full-time or part-time employees and regardless of whether or not they are members of the Union. It is further understood that each day paid for, including days of paid vacation, paid holidays, and other days for which pay is received by the employee in accordance with the Collective Bargaining Agreement, shall be counted as days for which contributions are payable.
<b)	The Employer hereby agrees to become a party to the Agreement
and Declaration of Trust, September 7, 1970, establishing the said Canadian Bakery and Confectionery Union and Industry Pension Fund, and agrees to be bound by a 11 terms and provisions of raid Agreement, a copy of which i s t o be hereafter annexed hereto and made a part hereof. The Employer further agrees irrevocable to designate as its representative* on the Board of Trustees of the Fund such Trustees as are named in raid Agreement and Declaration of Trust as Employer Trustees, together with their successors selected in the manner provided in the said Agreement, and agrees t o be bound by a 11 action taken by the said Employer Trustees pursuant to the said Agreement and Declaration of Trust.
eeeiNBix-i
page 2.
1. (Cont‘d.)
<c) It is agreed that the said Pension Plan shall be such as will qualify for approval by the appropriate Canadian Government Departments so as to enable the Employer to treat contributions to the Pension Fund as a deduction for income tax purposes.
i s agreed that a l l contributions shall be made at such times and in such manner as the Trustees require; and the Trustees shall have the authority to have an independent Chartered Accordant audit the payroll and wage records of the Employer for the purpose of determining the accuracy of contributions to the Pension Fund.
<e> If the Employer fails to make contributions to the Pension Fund after the date required by the Trustees, the Local Union, in addition to any rights the Trustees may have, shall have the right to take whatever steps are available to it under the Collective Bargaining Agreement and applicable law t o secure compliance with this Article. The Employer shall be liable for all costs incurred in collecting the payments due hereunder, together with all legal fees and costs and such penalties as may be assessed by the Trustee.
2*	The Parties agree and represent that there is no other agreement
between them regarding pensions, other than this Article, presently in effect. The Parties further agree that no agreement regarding pension benefits other than this Article shall be effective during the period covered by the said Collective Bargaining Agreement, except with the consent of the Board of Trustees.
3.	The expiration date of the present Collective Bargaining Agree-
ment between the Local Union and the Employer is April 30, 1990. Copies of any renewal or extension agreements will be promptly furnished to the Pension Fund Office and, if not consistent with this standard Collective Bargaining Clause, can be used by the Trustees as the basis for termination of participation of the Employer.
QEP£NQIx_i.
page 3.
4.	This Article shall be binding upon the Parties hereto, their
successors, administrators, executors, and assigns. In the event that the Employer sells, leases, or transfers this Company or any part thereof, or i s taken over by assignment, receivership or bankruptcy proceedings, the successor shall be bound by the terms and conditions of this Article for the life thereof. The Employer shall give notice of this existence of this Article to any purchaser, transferee, leasee, assignee, or other successor in interest. Such notice shall be in writing, with a copy to the Trustees, not later than ten <10) days prior to the effective date of the transaction. The Employer agrees that its failure to so notify its successor and the Trustees will operate to continue its obligations under this Article.
SI@NiD_eN_BEHALF_gF-It!g_yyieti	§i§NFD_ON_gEHALE_QF_THE_>QOM£A£lY