Collective Agreement
Between
INTERBAKE FOODS (1988) LTD London, Ontario
—and—
THE AMERICAN FEDERATION OF GRAIN MILLERS INTERNATIONAL UNION
AFL - CIO - CLC
Effective: May 1,1990 Expiry: April 30,1993
INDEX
Arbitration ............................
Bereavement Leave ......................
Bulletin Boards ........................
Change In Shift.........................
Clothing for Plant Employees............
Complaints and Grievances...............
Discharge and Discipline ...............
Discrimination .........................
Established Work Practices..............
Gender..................................
Grievance Committee ....................
EloursofWork ...........................
Job Classification and Wage Rate .......
Job Security............................
Job Skills Inventory....................
Job Skills Training.....................
Jury Duty...............................
Layoffs.................................
Letters cf Intent and Understanding.....
-Vacancies...........................
-Emergency Procedures................
-Paid Lunches .......................
-Plant Shutdown .....................
-Pension Plan........................
-Scheduling..........................
-Overtime Perimeters ................
-Overtime Scheduling.................
Leave of Absence .......................
Long Haul Tractor Trailer Drivers Uniforms
Maintenance Department .................
Management Rights ......................
n
24 31 42
41 9 13 4
46-50
4
8
36
33-35
29
22
22
25 19 51
51
52
52
53
54
54
55 55 24
42
43 6
1
Negotiating Committee ........................
No Guarantee..................................
No Strikes or Lockouts........................
Off Shift Premium.............................
Overtime Rates................................
Overtime Regulations .........................
Part Time Employees...........................
Pay Week......................................
Plant Visitation..............................
Policy Grievances ............................
Posting of Job Vacancies......................
Purpose ......................................
Recall to Work ...............................
Recognized Holidays...........................
Relationship .................................
Reporting Allowance...........................
Rest Periods .................................
Schedules.....................................
Scope and Recognition.........................
Seniority.....................................
Severance Pay.................................
Stewards......................................
Termination or Modification...................
Training Administration.......................
Union Activities .............................
Union Elections...............................
Union Security ...............................
Use of Part Time Help.........................
Vacation Plan ................................
Welfare and Safety............................
Work Performance and Efficiency...............
8
36 5
37
38 37 50 42
30
13 20
3
39
40 8
39
42
31
4
14
25
■b
23
30
30
5
31 43-45
26 45-46
2
riVE AGREEMEN
BETWEEN:
INTERBAKE FOODS (1988) LTD., London, Ontario,
(Hereinafter referred to as “the Company”) -and-
THE AMERICAN FEDERATION OF GRAIN MILLERS INTERNATIONAL UNION, AFL-CIO-CLC, LOCAL 242, (Hereinafter referred to as “the Union”).
Article 1 — PURPOSE
1.01	The general purpose of this Agreement is to maintain satisfactory relations between the Company and its employees, to promote the mutual interest of the Company and its employees, to provide orderly collective bargaining relations, to provide a procedure lor the prompt disposition of grievances, and to develop and maintain mutually satisfactory hours, wages, working conditions, efficiency and safety.
TERMINATION OR MODIFICATION:
1.02	(a) This Agreement, which supersedes all other, written, express or implied, will continue in effect until the 30th day of April 1993, and will continue in effect from year to year thereafter unless either party gives notice cf its intention to terminate or to seek amendments to this Agreement within a period of not more than ninety (90) days prior to the date of expiry.
3
(b)	In the event that either party gives notice seeking amendments, negotiations will commence within twenty (20) days after receipt of such notice and if as a result of such negotiations, the parties fail to negotiate a new Agreement or modificationof the present Agreement prior to the date cf termination, then this Agreement will terminate on that date.
(c)	It is understood that during any negotiations following upon notice of termination or notice of amendment, either party may bring forward counter proposals arising out of or related to the original proposals. GENDER:
1.03	(a) Except where clearly indicated otherwise,
reference to the masculine pronoun shall refer to either sex.
DISCRIMINATION
(b)	It is agreed that the provisions of this agreement shall be applied to all bargaining unit employees without discrimination in regard to race, colour, religion, sex, age, handicap, or national origin. Such employees who claim that he/she has been discriminated against with regards to rights guaranteed by this agreement, may grieve as provided in Article 10.
Article 2 - SCOPE AND RECOGNITION:
2.01	The Company recognizes the Union as the sole collective bargaining agent of all employees of the Company at its London Plants, save and except Forepersons, persons above the rank of Foreperson, plant nurses, office and sales staff, and watchmen.
2.02	A full-timeemployee is one who is hired to normally work forty (40) hours per week.
4
\rticle 3 - UNION SECURITY
3.01	All employees covered by the terms of this Agreement will be required to become and remain members in good standing in the Union as a condition cf continued employment.
3.02	All employees will pay Union dues after three days of work. This payment <f Union dues will not be refunded, but will in no way change the new employee’s status as a probationary employee. All new employees will become and remain members in good standing in the Union upon completion of forty-five (45) working days of service as defined in section 14.02 cf Article 14, as a condition of continued employment. The Company will notify new employees of this condition of employment at the time of hiring and will require a signature on the “Application Form” at that time.
3.03	CHECK-OFF:
The Company will, fcr the term of this Agreement, deduct Union dues, sums collected from weekly dues will be forwarded along with a record showing for whom the deductions were made, to the financial secretary no later than the last day of each week. When an employee has been off on weekly indemnity and returns, no more than 1 week union dues of back premiums will be taken off any one pay. Initiation fees will also be deducted after forty-five (45) working days and submitted to the Secretary-Treasurer of the Union.
Article 4 — NO STRIKES OR LOCKOUTS
4.01	The Company agrees that it will not cause or direct any lockout of its employees during the term of this Agreement.
4.02	The Union agrees that there will be no strike or other collective action which will stop or interfere with production, deliveries or services, and that if any such
5
collective action should be taken, it will instruct its members to carry out the provisions cf this Agreement and to return to or resume work and perform their duties in the normal manner.
Article 5 - MANAGEMENT RIGHTS:
5.01	Management of the business of the Company, the direction of its working forces, the securing of efficient operation of the plant, the schedules and quantities of production and methods, processes and means of production and distribution are the exclusive functions of the managerial and supervisory staff of the Company.
5.02	Management shall determine the kinds of products to be manufactured, processed and/or distributed by the Company. The equipment, materials and processes shall be those deemed by Management most suitable for its requirements.
5.03	Management shall maintain order, discipline and efficiency.
5.04	Subject to the limitations of this Agreement, Management will hire, promote, transfer or demote employees and suspend, discharge or otherwise discipline employees for just cause, subject to the right of the employees to enter into the grievance procedure as contained herein. The Union recognizes the right of the Company to institute and enforce reasonable rules and regulations, a copy of which will be given to all employees. Any changes to or any new rules will be discussed with the Union prior to being posted on the bulletin boards. Copies if changed, or new rules, will be given to the Union.
6
5.05	The Company will not contract out any work which is normally performed by members cf the bargaining unit, contracts in force as of the effective dates of this Agreement excepted. When outside contracts are necessary, the Union will be notified in writing at least forty eight (48) hours before any work commences, in order that representation may be made to the Company. Before contracting out any work, the Company will meet with the Union Grievance Committee or appropriate union steward to explain to them work to be contracted, why it is necessary to contract any such work, and the approximate time that will be required to perform the work. It is the Company’s and Union’s understanding and intent to cooperate in the case of emergencies or unusual circumstances. Only bona fide Union labour will be employed on any contracted work on Company property, if available in the City of London at a reasonable competitive cost. Current list of annual contracts will be given to the Union and reviewed once every year.
5.06	(a) Employees will not be required to, or be penalized for, refusing to cross a picket line where a legal strike is in progress.
(b)	The Company will not knowingly purchase or use material from a Company where a legal strike is in progress, if it is able to secure such material from other sources without unreasonable delay.
(c)	The Company agrees that it will not knowingly manufacture, process or package any product normally produced by another Company where a legal strike is in progress for the purpose of assistingthe employer to maintain operations or market.
(d)	The Union agrees to meet with the Company in an attempt to work out a satisfactory solution to the above-mentioned problems which is acceptable to both parties.
7
Article 6 - NEGOTIATING COMMITTEE
6.01	The Company recognizes the right of the Union to appoint or otherwise select a Negotiating Committee cf not more than eight (8) employees, and will deal with the said Committee on such matters as are properly the subject of negotiation during the term of this Agreement, including proposals for the renewal or modification of this Agreement at the proper time.
6.02	International Representatives of the Union may be present at any meeting held under this provision if their presence is requested by either party hereto.
Article 7 - STEWARDS
7.01	The Company acknowledges the right of the Union to appoint or otherwise select stewards to assist employees in presenting their grievances to the representatives of the Company. A list of such stewards and areas within which each one is to normally function will be a matter of record between the Company and the Union. The Company will not be obliged to recognize any steward until notified, in writing, of their name and area in which the steward is to normally function.
Article 8 - GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE:
8.01	The Company recognizes the right of the Union to appoint or otherwise select a Grievance Committee of not more than four (4) Union officers plus two (2) stewards as observers and other stewards concerned to be called in singly as necessary.
Article 9 - RELATIONSHIP
9.01	It is mutually agreed that employees will not be eligible to serve as stewards or members of any committee established under this Agreement, until after they have served their probationary period in the employment of the Company.
8
9.02	Officers and stewards, required to be absent from their regular duties for the purpose of investigating and
processing grievances and complaints will notify their foreperson, who will arrange the necessary relief as soon as possible. It is understood that only under emergency conditions shall a foreperson refuse to grant permission to stewards to leave their job(s) for necessary steward’s duties. It is agreed that stewards will only absent themselves from their duties for the length of time necessary to investigate or adjust a complaint or grievance and will report to their foreperson immediately upon their return to their job. The Local Union President will be assigned to work on day shift. The same absence from work for Union business regulations as govern other Local Union officials will apply to the President.
9.03	The Company agrees to permit stewards and committee members, includingthe negotiating Committee, reasonable time off from regular duties to attend to matters properly coming under the provisions of the Agreement and that in accordance with this understanding, will compensate them at regular rates cf pay for time allowed off during regular working hours.
9.04	The Union agrees to keep the Company currently informed, in writing of the names of the stewards and committee members. The Company will not be asked to recognize any steward or committee member until such notification from the Union has been received.
Article 10 — COMPLAINTS AND GRIEVANCES:
10.01	It is the mutual desire of the parties hereto that complaints of employees will be adjusted as quickly as possible. It is understood that a formal grievance may not be filed until the employees have contacted their
9
foreperson giving them an opportunity to adjust the complaint or answer the question within that shift, or any longer period which may be mutually agreed upon by the employee and foreperson concerned. Employees may be assisted by any Steward in their Department.
10.02	Employees will be allowed reasonable time off to register complaints or questions during working hours after securing permission from their foreperson.
10.03	Failing satisfactory adjustment or answer, the following stepsof the Grievance Procedure may be invoked in order, provided the grievance is reduced to writing within three (3) working days cf the answer to the foreperson and within ten (10) working days of the time the facts giving rise to the grievancebecame known to the employee.
10.04	The following procedure shall be followed in a sincere effort by both parties to reach a mutually satisfactory settlement.
STEP I
(a)	The written grievance will be signed by the employee and the steward and be delivered to the foreperson concerned.
(b)	The foreperson concerned will state a decision in writing, with appropriate reasons and return the grievance and signed statement to the employee, with a copy to the steward and the Local Union President within two (2) working days.
(c)	Failing settlement, the grievance may, within two (2) working days following the decision of the foreperson, be referred to and dealt with under the following Step 2.
(d)	Grievancesmay be registered during regular working hours at the reasonable convenience of the foreperson during that shift.
10
NOTE:	The term Foreperson shall not include any
bargaining unit personnel.
STEP 2
The steward and the aggrieved will meet with the Personnel Manager and the Superintendent of the department concerned, or their designate within five (5Jworking days. The President of the Union or his/her designate will be present at Step 2 meetings. A written answer to the grievance will be given by the appropriate Company official within two (2) working days following this meeting. If no settlement is reached at this stage, the grievance will be referred to a meeting of the Grievance Committee and Management of the Company.
STEP 3
(a)	If the reply of the appropriate Superintendent is not satisfactoryto the aggrieved,the grievanceshall be referred, within three (3) working days following the date of the Superintendent’s reply, to the Production Manager. The Production Manager and/or such other persons as may be designated by the Company, will meet with the Union Grievance Committee within a further five (5) working days to discuss the grievance. The Production Manager or his designate will give a reply to the grievance,in writing, within five (5) working days after the said meeting has been held.
(b)	Failing settlement within a period of five (5) working days following the meeting, at the request cf either party, the grievance may be referred to arbitration as provided hereinafter.
10.05	Any of the time limits provided in this Article may be extended by mutual agreement between the Company and the Union.
11
10.06	If a grievance is to be referred to arbitration, the party requesting arbitration will do so within ten (10) working days after receipt of the other party’s answer at Step 3 of the grievance procedure. Nothing in the grievance procedure will prevent representatives from either party from reviewing matters and trying to reach an agreement before going to arbitration.
Article 11 — ARBITRATION:
11.01	When either party requests that a grievance be submitted to arbitration, they will make such request in writing, addressed to the other party, after the grievance has been dealt with in Step 3 of the Grievance Procedure and at the same time will suggest the name of the sole arbitrator. The other party will have ten (10) working days to accept or to suggest the name of another arbitrator. If the parties cannot agree on the sole arbitrator within the above ten (10) working days, the party requesting arbitration will request the Minister of Labour for the Province of Ontario to appoint the sole arbitrator.
11.02	Each party willjointly and equally bear the expense of the sole arbitrator.
11.03	No matter may be submitted to Arbitration which has not been properly carried through all appropriate steps of the grievance procedure.
11.04	The sole arbitrator will not be authorized to alter, modify or amend any part of this agreement, nor to deal with any matter not covered by this agreement.
11.05	In suspension or discharge cases, the arbitrator will have authority to deal with such matters properly before it in any manner which it deems just and equitable in the circumstances of the case. All reasonable arrangements will be made to permit the arbitrator to fully investigate all the circumstances relating to the grievance.
12
11.06	The proceedings of the arbitrator will be expedited by the parties hereto. The decision of the arbitrator will be final and binding upon the parties hereto.
Article 12 - POLICY GRIEVANCES
12.01	Either the company or the union executive committee may file a policy grievance over any dispute or alleged violation arising out of an interpretation of a section of the collectiveagreement, which will be presented in writing, dated and signed by the aggrieved party to the other party. A meeting, as set out in Step 3 will be held between the parties within five (5) working days after receipt cf the grievance. Failing settlement, the matter may be referred to arbitration in the same way as the grievance cf an employee as set out on 10,06 above.
12.02	International Union representatives may be present at any meeting held under the provision of this Article, if their presence is requested by either party.
Article 13 - DISCHARGE AND DISCIPLINE
13.01	Verbal warnings will be given in the presence of a steward. A copy of written warning notices will be given to the affected employee and the employee’s regular area steward.
13.02	(a) A claim by a suspended or discharged permanent employee that the suspension or dischargefrom employment is unjust will be considered a specialgrievance and will be treated as in Step 3 of the Grievance Procedure. Any employee discharged or suspended will have the right to be represented by the union president or his/her designate at the time.
In the event the president or his/her designate is not available, the employee will have the right to representation by any steward available. An employee returning to the
13
plant on the matter of a grievance will report to the Personnel Office before entering the plant proper. Such grievances will be lodged with the Personnel Manager, in writing, within three (3) working days from the date of the suspension or discharge. Such grievances will be heard by the Production Manager or his designate (not the Personnel Manager) within a further three (3)working days. At this hearing, employees will be accompanied by their steward and the President of the Local Union, or his/her designate, if the employee so desires, and the matter will be treated as in Step 3 of the Grievance Procedure.
(b)	Such grievances may be settled by confirming the Company’s action in suspending or dismissing the employee, or by reinstating the employee without the loss of seniority with full compensation for
the time lost, or by any other arrangement which is mutually considered just and equitable by the parties. If the suspension or dischargeis confirmed by the Production Manager or his designate, then the matter may be referred to arbitration as provided in Article 11.
(c)	Personnel files will be kept intact, however, for disciplinary actions, records will be disregarded after two (2) years from the incident.
Employees who wish to have access to their own personal file, under supervision of management, must submit the request in writing to the Personnel Department. Request will be granted (unless abused) within a reasonable period of time.
Article 14 — SENIORITY
14.01	Seniority will provide employees with security based on their continuous employment with the Company dating from the employee’s most recent date cf hire.
14
14.02	Employees having less than forty-five (45) working days of service will be considered probationary employees and will have no seniority rights during this probationary period, except that such employees will be given the opportunity to return from lay-off before new employees are hued. It is understood, however, that summer students will not accumulate any seniority rights.
14.03	Seniority lists cf permanent employees will be maintained by the Company and revised every six (6) months. All seniority lists will be posted on the bulletin boards of the Company and a copy supplied to the Union President, Union Executive, and Stewards.
14.04	Areas and Departments will be defined as follows:
AREA BY FUNCTION	DEPARTMENT
Mixing Process Baking Process Cream & Gum Process:
(including cooking, sanding,
Panning Process Hard Candy Process Caramel Process Fancy Biscuit Packing Soda Packing Chocolate Packing Caramel Packing: (including Lozenge, Hard Candy)
Mixed Candy Packing Shipping
Receiving: (including stores, plant services, material services)
Sanitation
Maintenance: (including building maintenance)
Biscuit Process Candy Process
oiling)
Biscuit Packing Candy Packing
Material Handling
Service
Maintenance
15
14.05
(I)	Employees will be assigned weekly according to the needs cf the operation.
AREA
(II)	(a) Area operations will be staffed by the most senior qualified employees who have sufficient seniority to remain in their area.
(b)	Senior qualified employeesfrom an area will be allowed to fill the vacancies for higher groupings within their area before they are filled from outside the area, provided the daily operational requirements are maintained. If there are no vacancies in higher groupings, the employees will be placed in their grouping.
(c) Employeeswill exercise their seniority within a grouping cm their shift within their area before being scheduled to a vacancy in a lower grouping on their shift. If there are no vacancies available for which the employee is qualified the employee will displace thejunior employee on their shift. The displacedjunior employee will exercise their seniority on another shift in their area.
(d)	Employees will be scheduled by seniority and qualification to remain on their assigned weekly shift, provided the daily operational needs are maintained. Employees will be assigned to their grouping and then their posting after the area and shift preference have been met.
(e)	Daily shift transfer within an area when required.
1) If there is no increase in the work force within an area senior people will be brought from afternoons to days. Conversely,junior employees will be transferred to afternoons from days.
16
2) If there is an increase in the work force in an area the employees coming into the area will be placed on the available vacancies irregardless of shift.
(f) It may be necessary to move people offtheir posting in order to keep the most senior people working in an area.
DEPARTMENT
(III)	Employees who do not have sufficient seniority to remain in their area will then be assigned work in another area within their department where there are available openings, failing that they will use their seniority to displace the most junior employee within their department. PLANT
(IV)	Employees who do not have sufficient seniority to remain in their department will then be assigned where needed in the plant on a similar shift if possible.
(V)	Failing that the employee will displace the most junior employee in plant in order cf reverse seniority.
(VI)	Employees on jobs that have rotating shifts will be required to work all shifts when necessary. (excluding VIII below)
(VII)	When employees are scheduled to be laid offfrom the plant, such layoffs will occur in order of reverse seniority.
(VIII)	PACKAGING DEPARTMENTS CANDY/ BISCUIT
Employees who do not hold seniority to stay in their department will then be assigned work in the other packaging department where there are available openings on days or afternoons, failing that they will displace the most junior employee in the department before moving to midnights.
17
The midnight shift will be staffed by volunteers first from the operating area and then the operating department and then by volunteers from the other packaging department and then volunteers from the plant. The remainingopenings will then be staffed by qualified junior employees from either packaging department, provided the daily operational needs are maintained.
NOTE:
(1)	Senior employees will replace the most junior employees job that they are capable of doing according to Article 15,01 (as referred to displacing the mostjunior employee)
(2)	Vacancies - for the purpose of this section is an opening in an area where there is non-sufficient labour from the area to fill job(s), or is an opening in an area when a junior employee is reduced out of an area.
(3)	This Article may not be construed as preventing the company to assign any junior qualified personnel to meet operational requirements.
14.06	Seniority status, once acquired, will be lost only for the following reasons:
(a)	Voluntary resignation.
(b)	Discharge forjust cause.
(c)	Layoff in excess of one (1) year.
(d)	Layoff in excess of eighteen months for employees with five (5) or more years cf seniority.
(e)	Failure to return to work after a layoff within seven (7) working days after proper notification by registered mail has been sent to the employee at the last address appearing on the records of the Company.
(f)	Correct phone numbers and addresses are the responsibility of the employees.
18
Article 15 — LAYOFFS:
15.01	When an employee is scheduled or displaces another through the exercise of seniority this may only be done when that employee has the ability and qualifications to do the job without training. (i.e. capable of performing the job safely and efficiently after receiving a minimum amount cf simple instructions and directives). This article applies to all cases of displacementby seniority except where otherwise specifically indicated in another part cf the agreement (ex. 22.04 Job Elimination).
15.02	(a) As changes in the schedule occur during a week, as a result of production changes, the company will re-assign the affected employees based on the needs f the operation.
(b)	Should there be a cutback in production within two (2) hours from the completion of the scheduled shift, then seniority will not apply except that summer and probationary employees would be displaced by permanent employees in accordance with seniority.
(c)	If it is obvious that a job will not run the full shift, then the Company will endeavour to assignjunior qualified and experienced employees to those jobs.
15.03	(a) Not withstanding their position on the seniority list, Union Officers (President, Vice-president, Recording Secretary, Financial Secretary-Treasurer) will have top seniority throughout the Company’s operation in the event of layoff and recall.
(b) Recognized stewards shall have top seniority in their respective area, and shall not be displaced by any of the above named officers. In the event of a layoff and recall, the steward with the greatest seniority shall be retained or recalled.
19
15.04	Employees exercising seniority rights to avoid a layoffwho take work in other than their regular department shall receive the rate of thej ob to which they are assigned. Employees assigned to jobs other than their own for the convenience cf the Company shall receive the rate cf the job or their regular rate, whichever is the greater. When an employee works on a higher rated job for four (4) hours or more, that employee will receive the higher rate
for that shift.
Article 16 - POSTING OF JOB VACANCIES
16.01	(a) When a permanentjob vacancy occurs, and a replacement is required, a notice of such vacancy including the job classification rate, title and area and effective date will be posted, except group No. I, plant wide for five (5) regular working days.
(b) Applications will be considered first by department, then total plant. The name of the successful applicant along with the award date and effective date will be posted three (3) working days from the close of bidding. An employee will not be allowed to bid into another job and later return to his originaljob more than twice in any one (1) year period. The successful applicant will be paid the training rate of the new posting or their own rate whichever is greater, anytime after the effective date that the job is running.
16.02	The successful bidder will have the greatest seniority and be capable to perform the work, or be given a fair trial to learn the qualificationsof the work. Successful bidders will be given a fair trial and, if found unsatisfactory, or within thirty (30) working days indicate their desire to return to their former job, they will be returned as soon as a replacement is available under the bidding procedure. Senior employees refused an opportunity on
20
a job vacancy for which they have bid or who are removed from the job after a trial period, will be given the reason in writing by the appropriate Supervisor. Grievances arising out of such refusal will be referred directly to Step 2 of the Grievance procedure. It is understood and agreed that it will not be necessary to re-post a job in the case of an employee returning to his former job, under this provision, within thirty (30) working days, and applications will be considered from among the original bidders.
16.03	Skilled trades jobs will be posted on the Department bulletin board as in 16.01. If no suitable applications are received, the posting will then go Factorywide. If no applications are received for a posted job, or, if of the applicants, no employee has the required certificate, the Company may hue a new employee.
If required, the Company will post factory-wide for apprentices and register same under the Provincial Regulations. If no suitable applicants are available the Company may hue a new employee. Apprentices are not subject to layoff or bumping.
16.04	APPRENTICESHIP PROGRAM:
The Company will provide an Apprenticeship Program in the Maintenance Department during the term cf this Agreement, as follows:
A)	Qualifications:
1.	An employee applying to be an apprentice, must be certified as medically fit by the Plant Physician.
2.	The employee must pass an aptitude test established by the Company.
3.	The employee must possess Grade 12 diploma or equivalent.
21
B)	Procedure:
Vacancies for the Apprenticeship Program will be posted on the Plant Bulletin Boards. Selection will be made on the basis cf seniority, amongst those who apply and qualify under A above. If no qualified applicants apply lor the job, then the Company will hire candidates from outside.
C)	Administration:
An apprentice will be removed from the Program if the standards established by the Company are not met by the apprentice.
16.05	Employees absent from work due to illness, vacations, leave of absence (not exceeding four weeks from posting the notice) or layoffs, and who are eligible to bid for the openings, will be considered along with other eligible applicants and, if selected, the job will not be filled permanently until the absent employee returns to work.
16.06	(a) JOB SKILLS INVENTORY
Each departmental area will keep a job skills inventory including:
a)	present posting
b)	past posting (dates)
c)	past skills use
This J.S.I. will also be kept in the personnel office and will be updated annually Employees not willing to train shall sign their J.S.I, indicating this request.
(b) JOB SKILLS TRAINING
Training will be accomplished in the following manner by seniority:
i)	offered to employees in an area by seniority
22
ii)	offered to employees in department by seniority
iii)	offered to employees on plant wide basis by seniority
iv)	employees must train in their area first, then department in order to keep senior people working in their area
v)	employees will train first on jobs held by juniors in Section (i), (ii), (iii), with the intent of keeping the most senior people in an area, department and plant
16.07	TRAINING ADMINISTRATION
Training can be done by anyone who has acquired the necessary skills to train a specific job function. Training and experience go hand-in-hand and therefore, the senior posted person will be asked to train. However, a senior qualified person will be asked to assist in training, if available. Assessment cf work performance shall be the responsibility of the supervisor.
Should the senior people not feel up to training or if they have been doing excessive amounts of training, then thejunior person qualified to do thej ob will be appointed. Training of people within an area should be done from the senior people fist. This will allow them a multi-skill set so they can stay in their area and avoid layoff. Refer to Schedule 1 for trainer’s rate. Trainer’s rate will apply when supervision determines that training is required for at least a full shift.
16.08	The number of days spent on a job prior to successfully bidding on a job, will be considered as part of the training period.
23
Article 17 - LEAVE OF ABSENCE:
17.01	The Company may grant Leave of Absence to any employee for legitimate reasons. Such leave of absence will be in writing and seniority will continue to accumulate as though the employee were actually at work.
The Company may refer such applications to the Medical Centre for advice before making a decision on the application or may require a statement from a Medical Doctor in support cf such application. Twenty-five (25) year service employees will be granted Leave of Absence during, June, July, August and September on one occasion only.
17.02	Company will grant Leave of Absence to Union Officers and no more than four (4) other employees at one time delegated to attend Union conferences and conventions, provided one weeks’ notice is given to their plant manager.
17.03	The Company agrees to grant Leave of Absence to Union Officers to accept a full-time Union job with the American Federation of Grain Millers Union with retention of seniority rights.
17.04	(a) Employees applying for a leave of absence will not be required to use their vacation before leave of absenceis granted, if leave of absence is requested outside the vacation period.
(b)	Anyone being granted a leave of absence will be given a written copy by the Personnel Manager.
17.05	Any employee engaging in employment other than that referred to in 17.03 above during a leave of absence or extention thereof, may be subject to immediate dismissal. Article 18 - BEREAVEMENT LEAVE:
18.01	In the event of a death in the employee’s current immediate family (parents, including legal adoption) sister,
24
brother (including legal step-sister and step-brother) spouse car children, father-in-law or mother-in-law, employeeswill be entitled to be absent from work for a period of not more than three (3) consecutive regular working days, or, in the case cf brother-in-law,sister-in-law,grandparents or grandchildren, one (1) day off with pay when such absence is necessary to make arrangements for and/or attend the funeral, provided acceptable proof is shown where requested. During such absence, employees will be compensated for their straight time regular rates. Company to provide for (1) day with pay for an employee acting as pall bearer for a fellow employee.
Article 19 - JURY DUTY:
19.01	The Company agrees to pay a full day’s pay at the straight time hourly rates for each day an employee is required to serve and does serve on any jury, provided employees would have worked on the day or days actually served on the jury. Employees, however, will be required to turn in to the Company the jury duty fees in order to receive the compensation above provided. Employees subpoenaed as witnesses, except in their own defence, will be compensated in the same manner as those qualifying for jury duty pay.
Article 20 - SEVERANCE PAY
20.01	In the event an employee is terminated as a direct result of the closing of the Plant, that employee will be paid severance pay as follows:
(a)	Five (5) years or more of continuous service
-	1 weeks pay per year of service to a maximum cf 26 weeks.
(b)	Five (5) years or less of continuous service
-	1 weeks pay.
25
(A weeks pay to be the regular weekly hours multiplied by the employee’s regular hourly rate.)
20.02	No employees will qualify for severance pay if they are offered employment elsewhere in the Company, or if the closing results from or during a strike at the InterBake London Plant.
20.03	An employee who accepts severancepay will have no further claim to employment with the Company.
20.04	An employee qualifying for severance pay under the terms cf this Article who may also become entitled to severance pay in lieu of notice under Government legislation, will receive either the severance pay provided herein, or the severance provided by legislation, whichever is greater, but not both.
20.05	In the event of the plant closing, wages owing the employees shall take preference, as required by law. Article 21 - WELFARE AND SAFETY
21.01	(a) In the interest of any employee sustaining
an incapacitating injury at work or becoming permanently affected by an occupational disease during the course of employment with the Company, the Company and the Union will confer to offer alternative and suitable employment, if such is available.
(b)	When an employee has a Doctor’s certificate referring to change in job, the supervisor will send the employee to the Medical Centre. If the Company Doctor and the employee’s Doctor agree on the employee’s condition, change of job will be considered. When a disagreement occurs between doctors, a specialist will be consulted on mutual agreement of the doctors. If further disagreement, the whole matter will be returned to the Grievance Committee.
26
21.02	The Company will continue to administer the Company group insurance plan which includes:
(a)	Life Insurance for active employees will be equal to annual earnings with a minimum of $13,000.00 on a basis of $500.00 increments to a maximum of $21,000.00 effectiveAugust 1,1990. Effective May 1,1991, minimum $14,000.00, maximum $22,000.00. Effective May 1,1992, minimum $18,000.00, maximum $26,000.00. Effective August 1, 1990 a paid up $1,600,00 policy for future retirees. A paid up policy of $1,700.00 to be paid to all future retirees effective May 1, 1991. A paid up policy of $2,000.00 to be paid to all future retirees effective May 1, 1992.
(b)	Weekly Indemnity coverage of sixty-six and two-thirds percent (66 2/3%) of the employee’s regular weekly earnings (forty (40) hours at base rate on regular group) to the current U.I.C. maximum. There shall be a 1-1-4-26 payment formula. Income Tax to be deducted at source. The Company will prepay up to four (4) weeks equivalent weekly indemnity for employees off for reason of pregnancy, if the employee claims and qualifies for Unemployment Insurance Commission benefits. Such advance will be repaid when the U.I.C. benefits are received.
(c)	Extended health plan paying for ninety percent (90%) of specified medical expenses after annual deductibles of ten dollars (10.00) for single and twenty dollars (20.00) for family coverage. The maximum lifetime benefit will be $40,000.00 effective May 1, 1990. Effective May I, 1992, $50,000.00.
(d)	The Company will pay 70% of the premium costs of a Dental Plan equivalent to Blue Cross #7, the most current O.D.A. Schedule to be in effect. The Plan
27
will contain a $25.00 deductible with co-insurance on a 100% basis for preventive services, 80/20 basis for basic services, 50/50 basis for restorative services, 50/50 basic for dentures, to be in effect August I, 1990.
(e)	Eye Care Plan
To provide $75.00/2 years ($75.0011 year for children under 18 years of age) towards prescriptionglasses or contact lenses effective August 1, 1990.
Effective May 1st, 1992 $100.00/2 years ($100,00/1 year for children under 18 years cf age).
21.03	There will be a Safety Committee cf four (4) members, two (2) non-bargaining unit members which will be appointed by the Company and two (2) bargaining unit members by the Union. The Safety Committee will tour the Plant once each month.
21.04	Employees injured at work while performing their assigned duties and who leave the Plant premises for medical treatment, will be paid for the balance of that shift, providing they report to, or telephone, the Personnel Office following such treatment.
21.05	A First-Aid Certificate holder will be present on each shift and emergency instructions will be posted near each First-Aid box. There will be employees trained in First-Aid on duty at all times and the location of these employees will be posted in prominent locations throughout the Plant.
21.06	The Company will pay fifty-five dollars ($55.00) per calendar year effective July 15, 1990 (effective May 1,1991, $60.00)towards the cost of safetyshoes as approved by the Company for those employees required by the Company,to wear safety shoes, or by Government Dictate. If required and approved by Company an additional pair may be purchased within the same year.
28
In addition, the Company will pay one hundred percent (100%) of the cost of prescription safety glasses, Company
to determine supplier, for employees on jobs where the Company thinks the lenses are necessary.
Article 22 — JOB SECURITY:
22.01	Three (3) months notice will be given to the Union to advise of any significant technological change.
22.02	If the context of anyj ob should be changed during the term of this Agreement to a sufficient extent that either an increase or decrease in thejob rate should be considered, or a newjob established, it will be subject to negotiation with the Union Grievance Committee. If agreement is not reached, the Company will assign a rate and the Union may grieve under Article 12, Any rate agreed to or awarded at arbitration will be retroactive.
22.03	(a) When ajob is to be eliminated, the Company will give thirty (30) days of prior notice to the affected employee and the local Union President in writing.
(b) When a job is eliminated the former incumbent will retain his former rate of pay or the rate of the new job, whichever is greater, for a twelve (12) month period from the time of elimination.
22.04	When a job is eliminated the following applies: (a) The affected employee with sufficient
seniority will be entitled to displace the most junior employee on any job for which the affected employee meets minimum qualifications within the area, then department, then plant. A fair trial period of up to thirty (30) working days will be given the affected employee to establish competency.
Failing the trial period, the employee will be laid-off and will apply seniority according to Article (14.05).
29
(b)	Employees being displaced as a result of job elimination will exercise the same options as in (a) above.
(c)	Employees who become redundant by the reassignment cf duties will exercise the same option as in (a) above.
(d)	Affected employees or displaced employees will be paid the rate of the job to which they will become assigned.
Article 23 - UNION ACTIVITIES
UNION ELECTIONS:
23.01	In order to assist the Union during the term of this Agreement to obtain a truly representative vote of employeesby secret ballot for the election of Union officers, the Company will provide facilities on its property lor the annual election of such officers, outside of working hours, in accordance with present practice.
Arrangements for the election will be made between the Company and the Union Executive Committee prior to the date of the election, but it is understood that the vote will be conducted by a Union Election Committee. PLANT VISITATION:
23.02	The business representative of the Union will be granted admission to all properties covered by this Agreement during working hours to interview members ofthe Union after first receiving permission from the Plant Manager or his designate, and with the understanding that there will not be any interruption or curtailment in production. This clause shall also apply to the Local Union President during their off-shift hours.
30
BULLETIN BOARDS:
23.03	For the convenience cf the Union, the Company will provide bulletin boards on which may be posted notices of the Union activities. Such notices will be subject to the approval of the Production Manager before posting. Article 24 - SCHEDULES
24.01	The following schedules are hereby annexed to and form part of this agreement:
(1)	A schedule of Job Classifications, Wage Rates.
(2)	A schedule of Hours of Work, Overtime Regulations, Statutory Holidays, etc.
(3)	A schedule of Vacation Privileges.
(4)	A schedule of Work Performance and Efficiency.
(5)	A schedule of Established Work Practices.
(6)	A schedule of Part-Time Employees.
(7)	Letters of Intent and Understanding.
Article 25 - USE OF PART-TIME HELP
25.01	It is necessary to employ both regular (referred to as “full-time employees”) and part-time employees.
31
SIGNED AT LONDON, ONTARIO FOR THE COMPANY:
S. KRAWEC Director c£ Manufacturing
N. NORMANDIN Director cf Industrial Relations
B.	SMITH
Packaging Supervisor
R.	ELRICK
Quality Control Manager FOR THE UNION
D. GRAHAM
President
L.	FOISY
Vice President
A. DORMAN
Secretary Treasurer
C.	SPENCER Recording Secretary
S.	FLETCHER
M.	BEST A. CHOY R. NORRIS
M. KONESKO Int. VP A.F. of G.M.
32
u>
SCHEDULEI
JOB CLASSIFICATIONS AND WAGE RATES
Group 1 ..................................
Probationary employees, first 45 days Of work. On completion of 45 days of work, the employee will be assignedto a permanent job classification and will be paid the minimum of such job classification
Group 2...................................
Packers, Machine Operators, Placers, and Relief Timekeepers
May 1, 1990$ 9.80 May 1,1991 $10.45 May 1,1992 $11.30
HourlyRate$11.80 for 60 days of work then $12.08 $12.45 May 1, 1991 $12.73 $13.30 May 1,1992 $13.58
Group 3......................................
Tray Off. Twist Wrap Machine Operators. Janitors and Sanitation. Truckers, Envelope Wrappers, Biscuit, Processing. Candy Processing
Group 4......................................
Carton PrinterOperators.Verticle Form& FillOperators. Elevator Operators, Cut & Wrap Operators. Assistant Cookers,Sanitors, Auto LoadCarton MachineOperator, Laundry Attendant, Truckers (Mixed Candy & Caramel Room), Sheeter and Laminator Operators, Groundskeeper. Candy Maker (Pan Room), and Palletize Off Conveyor
Hourly Rate $12.12 for 60 days of work then $12.34 $12.77 May 1,1991 $12.99 $13.62 May1,1992 $13.84
Hourly Rate $12.36 for 60 days of work then $12.43 513.01 May 1, 1991 $13.08 $13.86 May 1,1992 $13.93
Group 5	 Icing Mixers, Assistant Mixers, Refuse Disposal Collectors, Mogul Truckers, Candy Makers, Mold Makers, Hard Candy Cookers, Sanding Machine Operators, IngredientWeigher (Biscuit)	$13.11 May 1,1991 $13.21 $13.96 May 1,1992 $14.06
Group 6A 	 Vertol Maker, Enrober Operators, Machine Operators (Biscuit),Mogul Operators, Peters Machine Operators. Tractor Trailer Driver- City, Material Handlers, Candy Maker, Votator Operator, Grand Slam	$13.27 May 1,1991 $13.37 $14.12 May 1,1992 $14.22
Group 6B 	 Top Candy Makers, Extruder Operators, Cutting Machine Operators, Mixers (Biscuit). Lab Attendant (Cellar),Chief Material Handlers, Crystal Room (while operating], Bakers, Machine Operator Set Up Biscuit. Long HauITractorTrailer Driver	$13.47 May 1, 1991 $13.57 $14.32 May 1,1992 $14.42
Group 7	 Building Maintenance, Mechanics’^” Belt Repair	$14.77 May 1,1991 $15.10 $15.62 May 1,1992 $15.95

Group 8	.................................................................................Hourly Rate$15.78
This group includestradespersonswith certificates	May 1,1991 $16.43
May 1, 1992 $17.28
Group 9 .............................................................................* . . . . Hourly Rate$16.26
Technicians	Mayl,	1991 $16.91
May 1,	1992 $17.76
Trainers Rate..................................................................................$ .30 cents per hour
(seetraining administration)
Long-Haul Tractor Trailer Driver .... Rate $544.36 per week tor 42-1/2 hours, plus Saturday, Sunday
and holidays at overtime rates per hour, with a two hour minimum plus road expenses incurred plus$10.00 per month Safe DrivingAward when qualified.
May 1, 1991, $571.99 andfor May1,1992, $608.12
Daily overtime to be paid alter 4 30 p m
In addition driverswill be paid $ 02 per mile
Mealsfor Drivers • • Breakfast$3 75 Lunch $4 25 Dinner$675
SCHEDULE II HOURS OF WORK OVERTIME REGULATIONS GENERAL WORKING CONDITIONS
1.	NO GUARANTEE
The Company does not guarantee to provide work for any employee for regularly assigned hours or for any other hours, unless so specifically provided for herein.
2.	HOURS OF WORK
(a)	Regular Shifts: Shift No. 1: Commencing between 6:00 a.m. and 8:00 a.m. to 2:00 p.m. and 4:00 p.m.
Shift No. 2: Commencing between 2:00 p.m. and 4:00 p.m. to 10:00 p.m. and 12:00 a.m.
Shift No. 3: Commencing between 10:00 p.m. and 12:00 a.m. to 6:00 a.m. and 8:00 a.m.
(b)	Hours d Work: All employees: The regular work week consists cf five (5) eight (8) hour shifts for a total of forty (40) hours, Monday through Friday. (no split shift)
(c)	By exception, some employees in the processing departments will schedule starting times of their shifts to accommodate regular shifts. Their regular work week will consist of five (5) eight (8) hour shifts for a total of forty (40) hours which may start on a Sunday (no split shift).
(d)	Rotating shifts will be weekly.
(e)	Shift No. 3 starts on Sunday except for sanitation which starts on Monday.
(0 Any changes to the above when conditions warrant will be subject to negotiations between the Union’s Executive Committee and the Company.
(g)	An employee may be required to change from one shift to another in order to meet unexpected changes in production schedules. However, such a change may
36
not be made more than once weekly and in such cases, a break of at least eight (8) hours will be allowed between shifts. A shift change is defined as: a change from one shift to the opposite shift. This does not apply in the case of a layoff, or as a result of an individual remaining in their area.
(h)	It is understood for Maintenance Personnel Employees, that if a job is started either during regular or overtime hours, that job will be completed if the company requires it to be completed by the tradesperson on the job, or another qualified replacement, if one can be obtained.
(i)	Present practice for paid lunch periods will continue as per letter of intent November 23, 1988.
3.	OFF-SHIFT PREMIUM
Effective May 1, 1990, a premium of thirty-five cents ($ .35) per hour, and May 1, 1991, thirty-seven cents ($ .37) per hour, and May 1, 1992, thirty-nine ($ .39) per hour will be paid for hours worked during the second shift.
Effective May 1, 1990, a premium of forty cents ($ .40) per hour and May 1, 1991, forty-two ($ .42) cents per hour, and May 1, 1992, forty-four ($ .44) cents per hour will be paid for hours worked during the third shift.
4.	OVERTIME REGULATIONS
All overtime work in excess of five (5) hours per week in a regular work week will be voluntary. The five hours will not necessarily be continuous. Overtime work on Saturdays, Sundays and Statutory Holidays will be entirely voluntary except in cases of emergency, such as fire, flood, power failure or acts of God. Overtime will be distributed on a departmental basis, by rotation starting with the most senior qualified employee. Notice of Saturday, Sunday or
37
Holiday overtime will be given on Tuesday if possible. Employees will work the shift wherever their seniority falls.
A paid relief period of twenty (20) minutes when working in excess cf two (2) hours, overtime and an additional paid relief period of ten (10) minutes when working in excess of three (3) hours overtime following the regular shift will be allowed. Employees working more than five (5) hours on Saturday, Sunday and Holidays will be given a one half hour paid lunch period. Overtime records will be made available to the responsible Steward if requested.
Employees are required to notify their foreperson before 10:00 a.m. on Friday if they will not be available for work on Saturday or Sunday. Employees accepting work on a Saturday and Sunday, who fail to report for the assigned work, will forfeit his/her right to be scheduled on the next occasion for Saturday/Sunday work.
On one occasion, per calendar year, non-accumulative, an employee may be required to perform a shift of overtime work on Saturdays, Sundays or Holidays. It is understood, that this requirement will only be used by the Company in the case of extreme need for product, when enough volunteers are not available.
5.	OVERTIME RATES:
(a) All Regular Production Shifts: Employees will be paid for overtime work at the rate of time and one-half for hours worked in excess of the regular work day or shift in any one day, Monday through Friday.
AH hours worked on Saturdays will be paid at the rate of time and one-half (1 1 /2). All hours worked on Sunday will be paid at the rate of double time (2).
Continuous production shifts will receive one and one-
38
half (1 1/2) times the regular hourly rate for all hours worked in excess of eight (8) in one day, or forty (40)
in one week.
Shift premiums to apply on all hours worked on second and thud shift regardless of starting and quitting time. Employees working through from Shift 3 to Shift 1 will receive shift premiums for all hours worked in Shift 1.
(b) Essential Service Shift Employees will be paid for overtime work at the rate of time and one-half (1 1 /2) for hours worked in excess cf the agreed upon work day or shift in any one day during the scheduled work week.
All hours worked on the sixth (6th) day of a scheduled work week will be paid at the rate of time and one-half (I 1/2).
All hours worked on the seventh (7th) day of a scheduled work week will be paid at the rate of double time (2).
6.	RECALL TO WORK
An employee recalled to the plant to perform overtime work in the event of an emergency will be paid for not less than the equivalent of four (4) hours time at the applicable rate.
When an employee is recalled to work overtime and has not had eight (8) hours unbroken free time since completing the last regular scheduled shift, such employee will not be required to continue working into the next regular shift except in the case of extreme urgency.
7.	REPORTING ALLOWANCE:
Employees reporting for work who have not been advised in advance to the contrary, will be given work for at least four (4) hours at regular rate, or if no work is available, will be paid four (4) hours at regular rates in lieu of work.
39
Where lack of work is due to circumstances such as fire, flood, power failure, or Acts cf God, this obligation shall not prevail.
An employee on lay off who is called in to work less than four (4) hours prior to the commencement of the shift will receive one (1) hour straight time. This clause assumes commencement of work at the requested time. This hour bonus is not to be calculated as time worked.
8.	RECOGNIZED HOLIDAYS
(a)	All permanent employees will be reimbursed for wages lost by reason of the plant being closed on any or all of the twelve (12) recognized holidays, (effective May 1, 1991, thirteen (13) ), provided they have worked their scheduled shift prior to and following the holiday, unless excused by the Personnel Office, in writing.
When absence is due to illness or injury and provided the employee works sometime in the week in which the holiday occurs or the following week, Personnel Office will also excuse.
Permanent employees who are laid off within two (2) weeks prior to the holiday or who are recalled after layoff within two (2) weeks following the holiday, will be entitled to holiday pay.
(b)	An employee working on a higher rate of pay before and after a holiday for the convenience of the Company, will receive the higher rate for the holiday.
(c)	An employee required to work on a recognized holiday will be paid at the rate of time and one-half (1 1/2) for all hours worked on the holiday, in addition to the holiday pay, at straight time. Employees working beyond eight (8) hours will be paid two and one-half (2 1/2) times the regular rate for all hours worked over eight (8).
40
If a recognized holiday is observed during the vacation period of an employee, the employee will be paid for the recognized holiday in addition to the vacation allowance, or an extra day cf vacation in lieu thereof at the wish of the employee, provided the extra day vacation is so requested before vacation begins.
Holidays recognized under this provision are as follows: New Year’s Day	Civic Holiday
Good Friday	Labour Day
Easter Monday	Thanksgiving Day
Victoria Day	Christmas Day
Canada Day	Boxing Day
2 holidays to be taken as Floaters, (3 Floaters effective May 1, 1991) (between Christmas Day and New Year’s in accordance with production requirements.)
(d)	Recognized holidays falling on a Saturday or Sunday will be observed on the preceding Friday or the following Monday.
(e)	Also, arrangements may be mutually made annually to substitute Saturdays worked at regular rates prior to Christmas as paid off in order to extend the Christmas holiday break.
9,	CLOTHING FOR PLANT EMPLOYEES:
Uniforms will be provided without a charge. All employees will be provided with two (2) clean uniforms per week. Additional clean uniforms will be provided at the discretion of the foreperson.
41
10.	LONG-HAUL TRACTOR TRAILER DRIVERS UNIFORMS
The Company will pay the total cost of driver’s uniforms and cleaning when necessary. Uniforms will be issued by March 31st and will consist of:
2 pair of trousers 1 jacket 1 hat 4 shirts
1	tie
2	pair of gloves
or any combination of same that does not total more than the total cost cf the above mentioned articles of clothing.
11.	PAY WEEK:
For payroll purposes, the work week commences at seven o’clock Sunday morning. Payment will be made by cheque each Thursday, except when a recognized holiday falls on Friday, when payment will be made Wednesday.
12.	REST PERIODS
All employees will be allowed two (2) rest periods, each of ten (10) minutes duration, one in each half of the working day or shift, at regular rate. Lunch period of one-half (1/2) hour will be established in all departments.
13.	CHANGE IN SHIFT
If employees have their shift changed by the Company without notice on the prior working day, and those employees have a pre-arranged commitment, then the foreperson will make arrangements to relieve the employee for such commitment.
42
14.	MAINTENANCE DEPARTMENT:
Subject to it’s prior approval of the tools involved, the Company will credit an employee’s account with an annual tool allowance in the amount cf $132,50 effective August 15,1990, $135.00, effective May 1, 1991, $138.00, effective May 1, 1992 (applies to new or upgraded tools) to those employees who are required by the Company to provide their own set of tools. The purpose of this allowance is to replace the employee’s existing tools that become broken or damaged in the performance of the employee’s job. If specialized tools are required, they will be supplied by the Company. and such tools will remain the property cf the Company. Unused portion of allowance in any year may be carried over into the next year only.
SCHEDULE III VACATION PLAN
1.	Length of service based on the employee’s length of service on the anniversary date of hire in the vacation year will be the essence of qualification for paid vacation. All vacation pay will be based on the previous year’s earnings.
2.	Employees with less than one (1) year’s service with the Company on the employee’s anniversary date of hire in the vacation year, will be granted vacation allowance as authorized by Province of Ontario regulations.
3.	Employees with one (T) year cf service but less than five (5) years service with the Company will be granted a vacation of two (2) weeks and will receive vacation allowance calculated at the rate of four percent (4%) of
gross pay earned in the vacation year.
43
4.	Employees with five (5) years of service but less than twelve (12) years service with the Company will be granted a vacation of three (3) weeks and will receive vacation allowance calculated at the rate of six percent (6%) of gross pay earned in the vacation year.
5.	Employees with twelve (12) years of service but less than twenty (20) years of service with the Company will be granted a vacation cf four (4) weeks and will receive vacation allowance calculated at the rate of eight percent (8%)of gross pay earned in the vacation year.
6.	Employees with twenty (20) years of service but less than twenty-five (25) years with the Company will be granted a vacation of five (5) weeks and will receive a vacation allowance calculated at the rate of ten percent (10%)of gross pay earned in the vacation year.
7.	Employees with twenty-five (25) years of service with the Company will be granted a vacation of six (6) weeks and will receive a vacation allowance calculated at the rate of twelve percent (12%) of gross pay earned in the vacation year.
8.	Preference of vacation dates will be recognized in order of area seniority provided that such preference is indicated to the Company prior to May 1st in the vacation year and that the exercise of such seniority will not disrupt production or work schedules. Employees will be entitled to take three (3) consecutiveweeks vacation between June 1st and September 30th. The fourth, fifth and sixth weeks of vacation are to be taken at other times, subject to operational requirements of the vacation year.
9.	In the event that continuity of service with the Company is broken, an employee re-entering the service of the Company at a later date will be considered a new employee in respect of the Vacation Plan.
44
10.	(a) Employees who are laid off but who have not severed their employment with the Company will not be said for any vacation credit at the time of layoff, but such employee vacation credits will be determined and paid at the employee’s request during the vacation year as cf the employee’s anniversary date of hire in the vacation year.
(b)	Payments made in lieu of wages by the Workmen’s Compensation Board will be included in determining gross pay for the purpose of calculating vacation pap
11.	Employees leaving the Company during the vacation year will be entitled to receive credit, calculated to the day of leaving, by cheque in accordance with the Plan.
12.	All deductions normally made from an employee’s regular pay will be deducted from the vacation pay.
13.	Vacation pay will be paid on a separate cheque with all normal deductions.
SCHEDULE IV
WORK PERFORMANCE AND EFFICIENCY
1.	Employees will perform any and all reasonable duties to which they may from time to time be assigned and it is understood that the Company is entitled to receive a fair day’s work from each employee. It is understood that employees will not be required to perform any work assignment which violates either the established Company rules and regulations or safety rules or which, because of certified medical reasons, is liable to cause or aggravate injury. An employee having a complaint concerning a work assignment other than as referred to herein will nevertheless perform the same, after which such complaints may then be presented at Step 2 of the grievance procedure.
45
2.	Complete production standards for each department will be prominently posted the day the lines are being manufactured and will reflect any and all changes permanently established by the standards department. The Union recognizes that the right cf the Company to establish fair standards of production is granted by Article 5 cf this Agreement. New standards will be established by the Company. Results reflecting the efficiency of each department will be posted in each department as they become available. The Union agrees to work with the Plant Manager to promote efficiency where operating results are regularly below standard. The employees affected by a new time study will be told beforehand with an explanation of what is being attempted.
SCHEDULE V
ESTABLISHED WORK PRACTICES
(This replaces all prior letters cf understanding, Labour-Relations minutes or other past practices).
Any new established work practices, letters of intent and understanding, agreed to will be distributed to all employees monthly during the life of this agreement.
1.	If a driver has his driving licence suspended for reasons which in the opinion of the Company, do not preclude that driver from driving a Company vehicle upon reinstatement, then the Company will provide an inside job (at that maximum rate) for the driver if an inside employee is qualified and willing to trade jobs with the driver (at that maximum rate) for the period of suspension.
2,	Forepersons of employees who leave early will advise the Personnel Office to telephone those employees and inform them of the time to report for work on the next day that work is available.
46
Employees returning from absence due to sickness are to telephone the Personnel Office in the morning. The Personnel Office will notify their foreperson(s) to list them for work on the next day that work is available.
3.	All employees must call the Company prior to the commencement of their shift when unable to report for work.
4.	All employees must call in prior to 12:00 p.m. the day before returning to work after an absence.
5.	Employees called in by telephone for that day of work will be taken strictly in order from the seniority list. If employees in turn cannot be contacted, including repeated busy signals, they shall be by-passed for the next in turn. Employees knowing they were by-passed may contact Personnel Office to inquire if work is available for them.
6.	Drivers will be paid for the first full week of absence due to illness.
7.	Any employee will not be placed after reporting for work one (1) hour late without just cause.
8.	When a steward is absent, the President or his/her designate will substitute.
9.	The Personnel Office has complete listings of departmental seniority which can be referred to by the Union.
10.	If a steward secures a change with another employee on the opposite shift and each can do the other’s job, permission will be given to change in order to attend Stewards’ meetings.
47
11.	100% cf back dental premiums are due upon return to work.
12.	Notice will be given the relevant steward when the 1 Personnel Office is first notified that an employee has completed the probationary period.
13.	All machine men and bakers will rotate on shifts respectively.
14.	Yearly statements on pension contributions will be distributed at an early date. Employees unable to estimate their benefits will be assisted by the Personnel Office.
15.	The Company will make every effort to have employees who are responsible for cleaning their immediate area not switch between areas of contrasting temperature.
16.	Employees wishing to transfer to another department must register their request in the Personnel Office. A transfer request is only valid during the calendar year in which it is requested. The transfer register will be used to fill permanent vacancies before new employeesare hired, and employees will be selected on a seniority basis. Written requests of employees wishing to transfer will be given to the local Union President. Employees are only entitled to transfer once during the term of this agreement.
17.	The Company will give the Union President a written notice as soon as possible regarding a major plant layoff which is expected to be in excess of five (5) continuous days of work. A notice will be posted on the Bulletin Board in the Department concerned.
18.	The Company will pay one hundred percent (100%) of all fees and required textbooks upon successful completion of a technical course which has been assigned or approved by the Company prior to the commencement of that course.
48
9. The Company will pay employees who have lermission to be off work on Union business and to bill he Union for such sums.
:0. When any equipment breaks down during the 2nd ind 3rd shifts, no management personnel (excluding Maintenance supervision) will perform any work that :ould normally be done by the bargaining unit personnel ;xcept in the cases of:
1.	Emergency
2.	Training
3.	Experimentations and quality control
4.	Assisting in repairs
5.	Maintaining safety
6.	When regular employees are not available to do the work, Maintenance personnel will be called as soon as possible.
21.	Tradespeople will, during the probationary period, present their license or certificate to the Department Steward.
22.	A Lead Hand is defined as follows:
(a)	Lead hands will be assigned by the Company on a temporary basis as needed. They can be deemed as the competent person in charge as required under the Ontario Health and Safety Act. Lead hand designation will be noted on the area schedule with a copy to the union executive.
(b)	Lead hands will be required to have working knowledge of variousjob skills in an area. This knowledge will be used to assist in trouble shooting, ensuring smooth start ups and provide assistance to employees regarding operational procedures and health and safety practices.
(c)	Lead hands will be required to relieve, fill in when needed and do necessary clerical functions.
49
(d)	Administration and discipline with regards to the collective agreement will be dealt with by supervision and is not a function of lead hands.
23.	Tools for Sanitation will be provided a5 determined by the Company.
24.	An employee working in a job classification for seventy-fivepercent (75%))f his working time in a calendar year, will be considered as permanent in that classification and will be paid at the appropriate hourly rate. Seventy-five percent (75%)will equate to 175 days.
25.	An employee accepting a position with the Company outside the bargaining unit will have six (6) months to confirm his decision to remain outside the bargaining unit and the Company will have six (6) months to assess said employee(s) acceptability in such position. During such period, his seniority shall be retained and accumulated. At the expiration of such period, the employee’s seniority shall be cancelled.
It is understood and agreed that either the employee or the Company may make a decision to change or rescind their initial decision at any time during the six (6) month period.
SCHEDULE VI PART TIME EMPLOYEES (INCLUDING STUDENTS)
1.	Part-timers, including summer students, may be hued under the following conditions:
(a)	these employees do not benefit from the collective agreement except for this schedule.
(b)	from May 1st to September 30th, these employees will work 40 hours or less per week.
50
(c)	from October 1st to April 30th, these employees
may not work more than 24 hours per week, will not
be assigned on jobs of group 4 or more and as much as possible will be scheduled on the 2nd and 3rd shift.
(d)	these employees are to pay union dues after 3 days cf work.
(e)	rate of pay shall be that of the probationary employee.
At any time, these employees, as much as it is possible and feasible, will not be assigned to jobs higher than group 2.
SCHEDULE VII
LETTERS OF INTENT & UNDERSTANDING
1.	Vacancies
2.	Emergency Procedure
3.	Paid Lunches
4.	Plant Shutdown
5.	Pension Plan
6.	Scheduling
7.	Overtime Perimeters
8.	Overtime Scheduling
LETTER OF INTENT
VACANCIES DUE TO DAILY ABSENTEEISM A. Workers outside their department
Vacancies due to a call in from a scheduled worker will be replaced by another worker who has been called in for that day. If the scheduled worker is absent on the second day then he/she will be replaced by a worker who belongs to the area/department, but did not have the seniority to be scheduled in the area/department.
51
PLACEMENT OF CALL-INS B. Placement of call-ins
Workers who are called in to replace an absent worker will generally be placed in the vacant spot. However, supervisors will place the worker within the area/ department at their discretion as to skills, training, upgrading and seniority on a one to one basis.
LETTER OF INTENT EMERGENCY PROCEDURES CONCERNING INJURED WORKERS
A.	Any injury requiring medical aid from a doctor or hospital will be sent by ambulance, taxi cab, or co-worker. The injured person will not drive themself. Taxi or ambulance connection should be made through the nurse or security guard.
B.	Any job site where an accident occurs cannot be started up until the site has been inspected by a member of the joint Health and Safety Committee. Please also remember that a work station where a critical accident occurs (as defined under the Occupational Health and Safety Act) cannot start up until a Health Inspector inspects the site and gives approval.
LETTER OF INTENT NOVEMBER 23, 1988
POLICY ON PAID HALF (1/2) HOUR LUNCH This will confirm our conversation of today’s date, and will clarify the Company’s position on the paid half-hour lunch.
If an employee works on a position that is running continuously; that is, 7:00 a.m. - 3:00 p.m., 3:00 p.m.
- 11:00 p.m., or 11:00 p.m. - 7:00 a.m., the half-hour will be paid.
52
If an employee is transferred for the Company’s convenience to a paid lunch position from an unpaid position, he/she will be considered as working a continuous shift for paid lunch purposes.
If an individual moves to a position that is noncontinuous production; that is, 7:00 a.m. - 3:30 p.m., the half-hour lunch will not be paid, except if transferred for the convenience of the Company.
If an employee is transferred to a paid lunch position fcr four (4) hours or more, at the convenience of the Company, the employee will receive the paid lunch.
Trusting this clarifies the Company’s position and will eliminate any future misinterpretations.
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING PLANT SHUTDOWN
The Company may close the plant for two (2) weeks proceeding the civic holiday. Employees are required to take 2 weeks vacation during the shutdown.
Preference of vacation dates will be recognized in order of seniority by area provided that such preference is indicated to the Company prior to May 1st in the vacation year and that the exercise cf such seniority will not disrupt production or work schedules and is in accordance with the following additional rules during shutdown:
-	3 consecutive weeks (including the 2 weeks shutdown) may be scheduled by seniority failing this;
-	2 other consecutive weeks outside the shutdown, between June 1st and September 30th, by seniority
During the term cf this letter employees with 5 years of seniority or more will receive vacation pay of at least 50% of their regular weekly earnings in the reference year fcr each week of the shutdown.
53
Notice of plant shutdown shall be posted on the bulletin boards no later than March 1st.
This letter of understandingtakes effect as of the effective date of the Collective Agreement and expires on October 31st, 1991. At this time the parties will jointly determine its renewal or cancellation.
While in effect this letter replaces Schedule 3, No. 8.
LETTER OF INTENT PENSION PLAN
December 31, 1990, the Company commits itself to post improvements to the pension plan in the area cf early retirement (age or penalty) or in the area of pension credit (as related to earnings used in computation).
LETTER OF INTENT
The soda packaging will consist of two assigned shifts.
The afternoon shift will be staffed weekly by reverse seniority starting with the most junior qualified people of the shift who are designated for afternoons, provided they have seniority.
The day shift will be filled along with the remaining employees from the afternoon shift. The day shift will be merged as to their seniority and placed accordingly. This procedure will be used to staff Mondays.
Daily shifts change if the work force remains the same in the area and will use the following procedure:
Days to afternoons the junior person off the afternoon list who is on days will transfer afternoon people coming to days will be the senior person.
Soda packaging employees who did not have seniority to be in the area on Monday will fill vacancies on a similar shift when returning to their area. It is understood that the junior qualified person might from time to time have to move off their shift to meet production demands.
54
SCHEDULE 7 OVERTIME PERIMETERS SATURDAY/SUNDAY /STATUTORY HOLIDAYS
1.	Employees who volunteer for overtime and fail to report are to forfeit their next opportunity for overtime. At the super visor’s/superintendent’s discretion, employees may be granted permission to be off the Friday prior to the overtime, which will not disallow them to work the overtime. If employees do not have permission and are absent on the Friday, they will not be allowed to work the overtime.
2.	Saturday, Sunday and Statutory Holiday overtime opportunity will be taken down by 8:00 a.m. on Thursday, prior to the overtime, and posted by noon on that Thursday. Employees have until 10:00 a.m. on Friday to remove their names and not work the overtime without penalty.
3.	Employees on holidays cannot work the Sunday of the week their holidays start or the Saturday of the week their holidays end.
4.	Overtime will be offered on a departmental basis first.
5.	Failure to report is deemed to be insufficient notification to allow reasonable time to call in a replacement at least one hour before your scheduled shift starts.
6.	Employees laid off for more than 30 days may not volunteer for this overtime.
OVERTIME SCHEDULING
WEEKEND OVERTIME
Saturday, Sunday and Statutory Holiday overtime will be followed on separate rotating lists, starting with the senior employee in the department, on January 1st of each year.
55
Positions will be placed by senior qualified people in the department, and not necessarily job postings, in order to accommodate as many people as possible in the rotation. WEEKLY SCHEDULED OVERTIME Overtime will be offered on a rotating list starting with the senior employee in the department.
Positions will be placed by senior qualified people and not necessarily their job postings. Overtime will only be offered to the shift on which it is scheduled. NON-SCHEDULED OVERTIME OR SCHEDULED OVERTIME OF TWO (2) HOURS OR LESS Overtime will be offered to the people performing the work in the production/process line first on a voluntary basis. Failing sufficient response, the overtime will then be offered to the senior qualified person in the department regardless of job posting.
NON-SCHEDULED CALL-IN OVERTIME DUE TO ABSENTEEISM OF UNSCHEDULED PROGRAM CHANGE WHERE SUFFICIENT TIME WAS NOT AVAILABLE TO POST
Overtime will be offered to the people performing the work on the production/process line four hours each from the opposite shifts on a voluntary basis. Failing a response, the senior qualified person in the department will be offered the overtime regardless of job posting. If a production line is not running, senior qualified person will be asked.
All employees will notify their supervisors if they wish to be called in for unscheduled overtime. A list cf people agreeing to be called in will be kept in Personnel and it will be the employee’s responsibility to keep the list updated regarding their status and correct phone listing. Off-shifts will have access to this list via Security department.
56