COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
between
O-PEE-CHEE COMPANY LIMITED
and
GLASS, MOLDERS, POTTERY, PLASTICS & ALLIED WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION AFL-CIO, CLC
LOCAL UNION #49B
LONDON, ONTARIO
l
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Article 1-Purpose............................. • 3
Article 2 — Union Recognition.................4
Article 3 — Reservation of Management
Rights........................4
Article 4 — Strikes and Lockouts .............5
Article 5 — Union Membership and
Check-Off......................5
Article 6 -Union Affairs......................6
Article 7 — Adjustments of Disputes
and Grievances.................8
Article 8 -Arbitration . , ,.................12
Article 9 —	Seniority and Promotions........14
Article 10 —	Leave . ,....,..................21
Article 11 —	Bulletin Board . ,..............24
Article 12 — Wages and Other	Allowances......24
Article 13 — Hours of Work and Overtime......27
. .	.30
. .	.31
. .	.32
. . .34 . .	.35
,	36
. ..38
. .	.39
. .	.39
Article 14 — Rest Periods.............
Article 15 — Reporting for Work and
Call-In................
Article 16 — Safety and Health........
Article 17 — Insurance Plans..........
Article 18 — Pension..................
Article 19 — Paid Holidays . , , ,.....
Article 20 — Vacations..........., . .
Article 21 — Limitation of Work
By Supervisor...........
Article 22 — Paid Education Leave. . .
Article 23 — Tool Allowance...........
Article 24 — Duration . . , . ,........
Schedule “A”
Schedule “B”
Schedule “C”.............
Letters of Understanding. -2-
,42 .48 .53 . 57
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
BETWEEN:
O-PEE—CHEE COMPANY LIMITED (hereinafter referred to as “The Company”) AND:
GLASS, MOLDERS, POTTERY, PLASTICS AND ALLIED WORKERS UNION (hereinafter referred to as the “Union” through its Local #49B)
GENERAL
Wherever the masculine is used in this Agreement, it shall be construed as if the feminine had been used where the context so requires, and the rest of the sentence shall be construed as if the grammatical and terminological changes thereby rendered necessary have been made.
ARTICLE 1 PURPOSE
1.01	It is the intent and purpose of the parties hereto set forth herein the basic agreements covering wages, hours of work, other conditions of employment, and the methods of adjusting alleged grievances to be observed between the parties hereto, covering the employees defined in the recognition clause.
1.02	Where any clause or provision of this Collective Agreement is contrary to legislation which affects the parties, such legislation shall override the particular clause or provision.
—3—
ARTICLE 2 UNION RECOGNITION
2.01 The Employer recognizes the Union as the sole bargaining agent for all employees of the Company save and except foremen, foreladies, persons above the rank of foreman and forelady and office staff.
ARTICLE 3
RESERVATION OF MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
3.01	The Union acknowledges that it is the exclusive function of the Company to:
(a)	Maintain order, discipline- and efficiency.
(b)	Hire, promote, demote, transfer, reclassify, discipline or suspend employees, to discharge any employee for proper cause, provided that a claim by an employee who has acquired seniority that he has been discharged without proper cause may be the subejct of a grievance and dealt with as provided in clause 7.04 of this Agreement.
(c)	Operate and manage its business in all respects in accordance with its commitments and responsibilities and in pursuance of its policies; decide on the number of employees needed in any classification; establish job qualifications; determine the location of plants, the product to be manufactured, the schedules of production and sales; decide on the methods, processes and means of manufacturing and distributing and on the extension, curtailment or cessation of operations.
3.02	The Company agrees that the exercise of the above functions shall not be inconsistent with the provisions of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 4
STRIKES AND LOCKOUTS
4.01	The Union agrees that there will be no strikes or other activity on the part of employees which will halt, limit or interfere with normal business procedures during the life of this Agreement.
4.02	The Company agrees that there will be no lockout of employees during the life of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 5
UNION MEMBERSHIP AND CHECK-OFF
5.01	All present employees who are members of the Union shall be required to remain members of the Union during the term of this Agreement. Newly-hired employees will be required to become members of the Union and shall pay Union dues as defined below.
5.02	The Financial Secretary of the Local Union will keep the Company currently advised in writing of the amount of initiation fees and also of the amount of the regular monthly Union dues.
5.03	The Company agrees to deduct from its employees the regular monthly Union dues, and in the case of new employees, the regular initiation fee. Such dues deductions will be made from the first pay received by each employee in each calendar month, and the initiation fees commenc-
— 5 —
ing in the third month of the employee’s service, and will be remitted to the Financial Secretary of the Local Union bv the fifteenth (15th) day of each month along with- a list of names showing from whom the deductions are made.
5.04	When the dues check-off deduction co-in-cides with the issuance of an employee’s vacation pay, Union dues will be deducted from such pay.
5.05	The Union agrees to save the Company harmless from any and all claims for amounts deducted from pay and remitted under the terms of this Article.
ARTICLE 6 UNION AFFAIRS
6.01	The Union and the Company agree that there will be no intimidation, interference, restraint or coercion exercised or practiced by either of them or their representatives, upon employees of the Company because of membership or nonmembership in the Union.
6.02	The Union will select or appoint a committee consisting of not more than six (6) stewards including a Plant Chairperson and Chief Steward to represent employees in presenting their grievances under Article 7 of this Agreement.
Three of such stewards shall represent the 1910 Huron Street Location, which for purposes of representation shall include 1295 Clarke Road, and three of such stewards shall represent the 430 Adelaide Street Location, which for purposes of representation shah include the “Annex“ at 427 Adelaide Street. The Plant Chairperson and the Chief Steward must not be from the same location.
6.03	The Company acknowledges the right of the
— 6 —
Union to select or appoint a Negotiating committee of five (5) employees, two (2) representing the 1910 Huron Street location including 1295 Clarke Road? two (2) representing the 430 Adelaide Street location, including the “Annex” at 427 Adelaide Street and the Plant Chairperson. Those members of the negotiating committea who are in attendance at negotiation meetings with the Company except mediation shall be paid their scheduled job rate for their regularly scheduled hours the day of said meeting.
It shall be the Negotiation Committee’s function to meet with the Company to negotiate the renewal and modification of this Agreement at the expiration of the current Agreement.
6.04	The Union shall notify the Company in writing of the names of the committee members and any alterations thereto. The Company shall not be required to recognize any steward or committee member until such notification from the Union has been received.
6.05	The Union agrees that Committee members have their regular duties to perform on behalf of the Company and they will not leave their regular duties without first receiving permission from their supervisor. Such permission will not be unreasonably withheld. Committee members will return to their regular duties as expeditiously as possible.
6.06
(a)	Committee members shall receive their scheduled job rate during meetings held with Company representatives during their normally scheduled hours of work.
— 7 —
(b)	Employees processing a grievance under Article 7 shall receive their scheduled job rate during their normally scheduled hours of work.
(c)	Payment under (a) and (b) above shall not include time spent in either Mediation or Arbitration proceedings.
6.07 The Company shall not unreasonably withhold permission for staff officers of the Union to confer with members of the Union Committee on request to the Personnel Office.
ARTICLE 7
ADJUSTMENTS OF DISPUTES AND GRIEVANCES
7.01	It is the mutual desire of the parties hereto that complaints of employees shall be adjusted as quickly as possible, and it is understood that an employee has no grievance until he has first given his immediate supervisor an opportunity to adjust the complaint. If an employee has a complaint, he shall discuss it with his immediate supervisor within five (5) working days after the circumstances giving rise to the complaint occur and failing settlement it may then be taken up as a grievance within three (3) working days following receipt of the immediate supervisor’s decision as follows:
Step No. 1
An employee with a grievance shall present a signed, written complete statement outlining in detail the circumstances as well as the redress sought, to his immediate supervisor either directly or with the assistance of the committee member
— 8 —
for his location. The immediate supervisor shall give his decision in writing to the employee within three (3) working days following presentation of the grievance to him.
Step No. 2
If the matter is not satisfactorily adjusted in Step No. I, the employee either alone or through his committee member or with him, may then take the written grievance up with the Manager or supervisor in charge of that department within
five. (5) .working days after the date of the immediate supervisor’s reply. If'there is no*Bfanager or sup ervisor in charge of that department or the Manager or supervisor is the same person referred to in Step No. 1, the grievance may, within the same time limit, be processed directly to Step No. 3. Within three (3) working days of receipt of the grievance in this Step No. 2, the Manager or supervisor shall give his decision in writing to the grievor and a copy to the committee member.
Step No. 3
If such grievance is not satisfactorily adjusted with the Manager or supervisor in Step No. 2, it may be submitted in writing to the Vice-President-Manufacturing or his delegate within five (5) working: days after the date of the Step No. 2 reply. Within five (5) working days of receipt of the grievance in this Step No. 3, a meeting will be arranged to discuss the grievance. At this meeting, the grievor, the committee member for the location concerned, the shop chairperson and a staff officer from the Union may be present at the request of either party. The Company may also have other management representatives in attendance. The Vice-President-Manufacturing shall give his decision in writing to the —9—
shop chairperson, with a copy sent to the staff officer from the Union, within five (5) working days following the date of the meeting.
7.02	Should any grievance not be submitted in writing within the time limits specified in this Article 7, it shall be considered to have been settled on the basis of the Company’s reply to the grievance. If no written answer has been given to the grievance within the time limits specified, the employee shall be entitled to submit his grievance to the next stage including arbitration.
7.03
(a)	‘ The Union may file a “Policy Grievance” at Step No. 3 of the grievance procedure. A “Policy Grievance” is defined as one which alleges a misinterpretation or violation of a provision of this Agreement and which, because of the nature-or scope of the subject matter, could not otherwise be handled as an employee grievance commencing at Step No. 1. Such “Policy Grievance” shall be in writing and signed by the Shop Chairperson.
(b)	The Company shall have the right to lodge a grievance with the Union concerning the application or interpretation of any provision of this Agreement. The grievance shall first be presented in writing to the Union and a meeting will be held within five (5) working days between representatives of the Company and the Union and the grievance shall be answered in writing by the Union within five (5) working days of such meeting.
7.04	An employee who has acquired seniority under this Agreement claiming that he has been
— 10 —
discharged from employment without just cause may file a written statement of such claim at Step No. 3 of the grievance procedure providing such claim is lodged with the Plant Manager within three (3) working days of the discharge.
7.05	An employee who has acquired seniority under this Agreement claiming that he has been laid off without just cause may file a written statement of such claim at Step No. 2 of the grievance procedure provided such claim is lodged with the Manager or Supervisor in charge at that department within five (5) working days after the circumstances giving rise to the grievance.
7.06	The term “working days” in this Article shall mean plant working days.
7.07	Any steps of the Grievance Procedure may be waived by mutual agreement in writing between the Company and the Union.
7.08	Any employee receiving a disciplinary notation on his record will have such notation cancelled if the employee serves a period of twelve (12) months without a further disciplinary notation on his file. The plant chairperson shall be given a copy of all disciplinary notations being entered on an employee’s file,
7.09	Failing settlement under the foregoing procedures of any grievance arising from the interpretation, application, non-apili ication or violation of any provisions of this Agreement, including any questions as to whether a matter is arbitrable or in the case of an employee who has acquired seniority under this Agreement, a grievance alleging mat he has been discharged without just cause, such a grievance may be submitted to arbitration as provided in Article 8,
— 11 —
providing a written request for arbitration is received within ten (10) working days after the final decision is given in Step No. 3.
7.10	Time limits fixed in this Article may be extended by mutual agreement in writing between the Company and the Union.
ARTICLE 8 ARBITRATION
8.01
(a)	A complaint regarding the meaning, interpretation, application or alleged violation of this Agreement including a Union or Company Policy Grievance as defined in Article 7, paragraph 7.03, or an allegation by an employee who has acquired seniority that he has been discharged without cause, which has been properly carried through all the requisite steps of the Grievance Procedure outlined in Article 7 and which has not been settled or abandoned, may be referred to a single Arbitrator, at the written request of either of the parties hereto in accordance with Article 7, paragraph 7.09.
(b)	The party requesting arbitration shall advise the other party by registered mail stating the matter to be arbitrated and the names of three arbitrators. The recipient of such notice shall, by return mail, acknowledge receipt of such advice and, at the same time, provide the name of the arbitrator, if any, that it selects from the three names or the names of other arbitrators.
(c)	If either of the parties fails to appoint an arbitrator, or if the parties fail to agree
— 12 —
upon a chairman within the time limit, the appointment shall be made by the Minister of Labour for Ontario upon the request of either party. The arbitrator shall hear and determine the difference or allegation and shall issue a decision and the decision is final and binding upon the parties and upon any employee or employer affected by it. <d) The parties may mutually agree to the appointment of a board of arbitration. If the parties agree to a board of arbitration the requesting party shall inform the other party of the name of an appointee to a board of arbitration. Within five (5,1 days the other party shall inform the requesting party of the name of its appointee to the arbitration board. The two (2) appointees so selected shall, within five (5) days of the appointment of the second of them, appoint a third person who shall be the chairman. If either of the parties fails to appoint an arbitrator, or if the two appointees fail to agree upon a chairman within the time limit, the appointment shall be made bv the Minister of Labour for Ontario upon the request of either party. The arbitration board shall hear and determine the difference or allegation and shall issue a decision and the decision is final and binding upon the parties and upon the employee or employer affected by it. The decision of a majority is the decision of the arbitration board, but if there is no majority the decision of the chairman governs. 8.02 The Arbitrator, .or a Board of Arbitration, will not have the authority to alter, modify, or amend any part of this Agreement or, to make
— 13 —
any decision inconsistent therewith, nor deal with any matter not covered by this Agreement.
8.03	Each party hereto will jointly bear the expenses of the Arbitrator or Chairman of a Board of Arbitration, but each party shall bear the costs and expenses of its appointee to any Board of Arbitration.
8.04	Time limits fixed in this Article may be extended by mutual agreement in writing between the Company and the Union.
ARTICLE 9
SENIORITY AND PROMOTIONS
9.01	Seniority is based upon the length of continuous service with the Company.
9.02	An initial seniority list shall be established at the signing of this Agreement and shall be brought up to date every six (6) months thereafter. Only employees who have completed the probationary period shall be shown on the seniority list.
9.03
(a)	An employee other than an employee in a classification within the Maintenance Department as outlined in Schedules “B” and “C” of this Agreement, shall be considered a probationary employee until he has worked a total of forty-five (45) days or longer if mutually agreed upon by the parties, within any continuous six (6) month period, and during this period he shall have no seniority rights.
(b)	An employee in a classification within the Maintenance Department as outlined in Schedules “B” and “C” shall be considered a
—14—
probationary employee until he has worked a total of seventy-five (75) days or longer if mutually agreed upon by the parties, within any continuous six (6) month period and during this period he shall have no seniority rights.
(c)	It is expressly understood by both parties that during the probationary period an employee shall be considered as being employed on a trial basis and may be discharged at any time at the sole discretion of the Employer.
(d)	The parties agree that the discharge of a probationary employee shall not be the subject of a grievance and/or arbitration pursuant to this Agreement.
9.04
(a)	On successful completion of the probationary period an employee shall be placed on regular staff, his name shall be placed on the seniority list and his seniority shall date back to his last date of hire.
(b)	In the event two (2) or more employees were hired on the same day, their seniority shall be determined in the following sequence:
(i) date application is received by personnel.
(ii) time application is received by personnel.
This provision will only effect those employees
who were hired after March 1, 1983.
9.05	Seniority will continue to accumulate during any authorized leave of absence, including vacations, provided for in this Collective Agreement.
9.06	The Union Committee shall be given notice as soon as possible of any lay-off and it then shall be posted on the bulletin board.
-15-
9.07
(a) An employee who is affected by a work shortage and who is subject to lay-off will be entitled to claim initially the job held by another employee at his own location (i.e., Adelaide Street or Huron Street) provided the affected employee possesses the necessary qualifications and ability to perform the job being claimed and also provided that:
(i) the job rate being claimed is held by the employee with the least seniority at his location who is currently working in that job classification; and
(ii) the job rate being claimed is equal to or lower rated than the job being held by the employee making the claim.
(b)	The most junior employee in a job classification at a location (i.e., Adelaide Street or Huron Street) who is affected by a work shortage and who is subject to lay-off may claim the job held by a more junior employee in that job classification at the other location provided the affected employee possesses the necessary qualifications and ability to perform the job being claimed and also provided that:
(i) the job rate being claimed is held by the employee with the least seniority who is currently working in that job classification; and
(ii) the job rate being claimed is equal to or lower rated than the job being held by the employee making the claim.
An employee execising his option to accept a lay-off under this sub-para-
16
graph 9.07(b) must advise the Company within one (1) day of the posting of the manpower schedule.
(c)	If the employee who is affected by a work shortage and who is subject to lay-off is unable to claim the job of the most junior employee in that iob classification outlined in 9.07(a) or 9.07(b) because the affected employee does not possess the necessary qualifications and ability to perform the job being claimed, the affected employee may claim tne iob ot the most junior employee in that job classification to which he possesses the necessary qualifications and ability to perform provided the job being claimed is equal to or lower rated than job held by the employing making the claim.
(d)	For reasons such as raw material shortage and machine breakdown, the Company mav lay off any employee for a temporary period not exceeding three (3) working days, without regard to seniority outside his own location provided that no individual employee shall he laid off by virtue of this section for more than ten (10) days in any calendar year. In the administration of this clause, any part of a day shall constitute one day.
9.08
(a)	Before new employees are hired, the Company will recall employees having seniority on lay-off who possess the necessary qualifications to perform the work available. When such employees are recalled, it shall be on the basis of seniority and qualifications.
(b)	If the anticipated term of work on a recall
— 17 —
is for a period of less than one (I) week, the employee will be advised and may elect to decline the recall without losing seniority under the provisions of 9.09(a)(6).
9.09
(a)	An employee’s seniority shall be terminated and he shall be deemed to lose all status as an employee if:
1.	He is laid off for a continuous period equal to one-half (H) the employee’s seniority up to a maximum of eighteen (18) months; or
2.	He retires or is retired: or
3.	He is discharged and not reinstated in accordance with the grievance procedure;
4.
5
6.
7,
8.
He is absent from work for a period in excess of three (3) working days without notifying the Company unless he subsequently satisfies the Company that his failure to so notify was for reasons beyond his control; or He voluntarily leaves the employ of the Company; or
He fails to reply to a recall within forty-eight (48) hours of notification of such recall to his last known address, or subsequently fails to report for work within three (3) further days following such reply; or
He uses a leave of absence for a purpose other than that for which it was granted;
He fails to return to work within twenty-four (24) months following the commence-
or
-18-
ment of an absence due to an illness or accident.
(b)	A person receiving Worker’s Compensation shall not lose seniority under Clause 9.09(a) (8) above, until a qualified physician or the Worker’s Compensation Board has determined that he will be unable to return to work or until three (3) years have elapsed, whichever occurs first.
9.10
(a)	The term “vacancy” as used in this Agreement shall be defined as any job opening of more than thirty (30) working days duration except that vacancies of more than thirty (30) working days caused by employees being on vacation: or off due to comDensable or noncompensable accident or illness; or on an approved leave of absence shall be considered temporary.
(b)	In the event new positions are created and established which are expected to exceed thirty (30) working days or a vacancy other than a temporary vacancy occurs in an existing position which the Company wished to fill, the available position will be posted on the’ Company’s bulletin boards for a period of three (3) working days in order that employees may apply for such position.
The posting notice will specify the nature of the job, the qualifications required, the number of vacancies, the rate of pay and date of commencement of the job.
A copy of all postings will be given to the Shop Chairperson.
— 19 —
(c)	No employee may change jobs through the exercise of job bidding under this Article more than twice in any twelve (12) month period.
(d)	Packaging/Processing mechanics posted to the Maintenance Department in a classification as outlined in Schedule “B” may progress to Group 4 without the positions being posted provided the employee has successfully completed the full training programme and fully meets all the criteria including qualifications, skill and ability of each group.
9.11	(a) The Company shall make a selection within five (5) working days of the termination of the posting period from those applicants who are deemed to have the necessary skill and ability to perform the requirements of the position in a satisfactory manner. The position shall be assigned to the most senior of such applicants.
(b)	Where the senior applicant is selected with or without an interview, there will be no requirements for the Company to interview less senior applicants.
(c)	The Company shall not hire any outside applicants until all applications from present employees are considered.
(d)	The Shop Chairperson shall be advised of all successful applicants and the anmes of all applicants shal be made available to him on request.
(e)	Where an applicant is awarded a job through the job posting procedure, he shall be eligible for a training period. Such training
—20—
period as determined by the Company will be from a minimum of two (2) working days for positions which demand lesser skills to a maximum of ten (10) working days for more skilled positions.
In the event the applicant proves unsatisfactory in the position during the aforementioned training period, or if the employee finds himself unable to perform the duties of the new position, he shall be returned to his former position without loss of seniority and with the current rate of wages for said former position.
In the event an employee is returned to his former position, any other employees who had been promoted or transferred as a result of the promotion or transfer of the returning employee shall be returned to their former positions without loss of seniority and with the current rate of wages for said former positions.
9.12	When an employee is to be laid off for a contemplated period of less than thirteen (13) weeks, it is not necessary for the Company to issue vacation pay unless requested to do so by the employee.
ARTICLE 10
LEAVE
10.01	An employee who for a consecutive period of thirteen (13) weeks has not been absent from work, nor late for work more than ten (IO) minutes total in any one (1) month, shall be entitled to a period of leave equal to one-half of the
— 21 —
employee’s normal work day, such paid leave to be cumulative and to be taken at such time as approved by the Company.
10.02
(a)	In the event of a death in an employee’s immediate family (which shall only include parent, foster parent, sister, half-sister, brother, half-brother, spouse, child, father-inlaw, mother-in-law, grandparent, grandchild. person to whom the employee is a court-appointed legal guardian), the Company agrees to continue to pay, on a straight time basis at the regular hourly rate for the actual time absent from work by each employee of the family involved to arrange and/or attend the funeral, but in no case to exceed three (3) regular working days. It is understood that the aforementioned three (3) regular working day period may include one (1) day following the funeral.
(b)	In the event of the death of a brother-in-law
or sister-in-law the Company agrees to continue to pay, on straight time basis at the regular hourly rate for the actual time absent from work for an employee to attend the funeral, but in no case to exceed one 0) regular working day.
10.03
(a) While it is the exclusive prerogative of the Company to grant a leave of absence. an employee who has completed his probationary period may apply, in writing, for an extended leave of absence without pay for a period not to exceed two (2) months in duration provided the Company is able to
— 22 —
replace such employee with a competent trained substitute so as not to interfere with production. The Company shall advise the employee whether or not his request has been granted within one (1) week of receiving such request except any leave of absence requested for the period of July 1st to August 31st. Requests for leaves of absence for the period of July 1st to August 31st shall be submitted to the Personnel Department between March 1st and April 30th, and the employee shall be advised whether or not his request has been granted by May 15th.
(b) The Company will, if production requirements permit, consider one (I) extra week’s leave without pay to allow employees to vacation with their families.
10.04
(a)	The Company agrees to pay the difference between a full day’s pay at the employee’s straight time hourly rate and the amount the employee receives as jury duty pay (excluding payment for travelling, meals, or other expenses) for each day the employee is required to absent himself from work in order to serve on a jury.
(b)	Employees on day shift who are on Jury or Witness Duty and are not required and let go by eleven (11:00) o’clock shall go into work for the afternoon.
(c)	Employees on other than the day shift who are required for such service in excess of four (4) hours shall not be required to go to work on their normal shift that day.
— 23 —
ARTICLE 11 BULLETIN BOARD
11.01	The Company shall provide a bulletin board for the use of the Union at each location. The Shop Chairperson or his designate may post notices relating to official Union functions.
11.02	All other matters which the Union may want to post will have to be approved by the Company.
ARTICLE 12
WAGES AND OTHER ALLOWANCES
12.01	The Company agrees to pay and the Union as the sole bargaining agent for employees of the Company covered by the Agreement, agrees to accept during the life of this Agreement, the scale of wages set forth in Schedule “A”, “B” and “C”.
12.02	An employee required to work on other than the normally scheduled day shift, will be compensated, in addition to normal earnings, by a premium of twenty-eight cents (.28) per hour on the afternoon shift and thirty-four cents (.34) per hour on the night shift.
12.03	Employees will be paid by cheque. Except in the event that a paid holiday falls on a Monday, the afternoon and night shift employees will be given their cheques at the end of their Thursday shift and Friday morning respectively; all other employes will receive their pay cheques prior to the end of the shift on Thursday. In the event that a paid holiday falls on a Monday, employees working on the day shift will be given their cheques prior to the end of their shift on Friday and all other employees will be able to receive their
—24—
che ues from the payroll clerk after 10:00 A. M. on the%riday. For the purpose of this Article, employees shall be paid either by cheque or by direct deposit into the personal bank account of the employee’s choice.
12.04
(a)	Employees, other than employees in a classiincation. within the' Maintenance 'Department as outlined in Schedules “B” and “C”, who, for the convenience of the Company are temporarily transferred to a job normally paying a different basic rate shall:
(i)	retain their scheduled! itb rate should it be greater than the established basic rate for the job classification to which they are transferred;
(ii)	be paid the basic rate normally paid for the work to which they have been temporarily transferred should it be higher than their scheduled job rate.
(b)	Employees in a classification within the Maintenance Department as outlined in Schedules “B” and “C” who are temporarily assigned to a piece of equipment or a classification for which they have not received credits, will not receive credits for such equipment or classification until they have met all of the established criteria as set out in the training requirements such that the employee is fully able to perform the job in an efficient manner without further training.
12.05
(a)	An employee who claims a lower rated job under the provisions of Article 9, paragraph 9.07 shall retain his scheduled job rate as
-25-
shown on the weekly manpower schedule for the balance of the week. Employees shall then receive the job rate of the scheduled job subject to 12.05 (b), (c), (d) and (e).
(b)	Employees with three (3) or more years of seniority as of April 30, 1986, who are posted under the provisions of Article 9, paragraph 9.11 as of April 30,1986 and claim a lower rate job under the provisions of Article 9, paragraph 9.07 shall receive a job rate of not less than ten cents (.10) per hour less than the employee’s posted job rate subject to 12.05 (c), (d), and (e),
(c)	In the event an employee covered under paragraph 12.05 (b) above does not:
(i)	accept training on another machine in his classification; and
(ii)	successfully meet the required qualifications,
he shall revert back to the wage rate of the job of which he is performing.
(d)	In the event an employee with three (3) or more years seniority as of April 30, 1986 does not perform work in his posted job grade for a six (6) month period of time, the employee’s wage rate shall then revert back to the wage rate of his posted job rate as of April 30, 1986, subject to 12.05 (e).
(e)	In the event there is subsequent work in the employee’s former posted job, he shall be trans-
-26-
ferred back in order of seniority to said job at the appropriate job rate.
12.06	An employee required by the Company to transfer to one of the Company’s other locations during his regular shift shall be given transportation or round trip payment in lieu thereof at the rate of twenty cents (.20) per kilometre.
12.07	The Company shall pay a First Aid Attendant with a current first aid certificate and duly appointed by the Company, a bonus of ten cents (.10) per hour above his scheduled job rate.
12.08	The Company shall pay a premium of thirty cents (.30) per hour for all hours worked by an employee when designated as a lead hand by Management of an unsupervised shift.
ARTICLE 13
HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
13.01	The following paragraphs and clauses are intended to define the normal hours of work for the purpose of calculating overtime and shall not be construed either as a guarantee of any minimum or as a restriction of any maximum number of hours worked.
13.02	The normal work week shall be forty (40) hours comprised of five (5) days of eight (8) hours Monday to Friday inclusive.
—27—
13.03
(a)	The employee shall be paid overtime at the rate of time and one-half (1-1/2) the job rate for all hours worked:
(i)	in excess of eight (8) hours in any one day, and
(ii)	on a Saturday.
(b)	The employee shall be paid overtime at the rate of twice (2) the job rate for all hours worked:
(i)	on a Sunday and
(ii)	on a Paid Holiday.
(c)	For the purpose of clause 13.03 (b) above, the shift commencing at 11:00 p. m. Sunday night shall be deemed to be work performed on a Monday.
13.04	The Company will make every effort to notify employees of Saturday overtime by Thursday noon; daily overtime by noon of the day overtime is required.
13.05	The Company shall make every effort to offer overtime work among qualified employees who normally perform the work at the location where such work is required by following the procedure outlined in this clause:
(a)	Overtime work will first be offered to employees who are currently scheduled to perform the job.
28-
(b)	Where overtime is offered and there are more volunteers than required, overtime assignments shall be made to the most senior of those employees who have volunteered.
(c)	Where overtime is offered and there are insufficient volunteers to meet requirements, the Company may assign such overtime work to employees who are capable of performing the work but in inverse order of seniority.
13.06	Subject to schedules of production, shift starting times will normally be as follows:
(a)	One shift operation:
(i)	7:00 a. m., or
(ii)	3:30 p. m., or
(iii)	11:00 p. m.
(b)	Two shift operation: 7 a. m. and 3 p. m.
(c)	three shift operation: 11 p. m., 7 a. m. and 3
p. m.
13.07	The Company may, when necessary, vary the shift starting times provided in clause 13.06 above, or the starting time of any individual employee by up to one-half (1/2) hour, except for Truck Drivers which may varied by up to one (1) hour.
13.08	Except for a transfer of shift under paragraph 13.09, employees who are required by the Company to change their shift will be given a minimum oftwenty-four (24) hours notice and will be paid for all time lost directly related to the
-29-
change in shift. All employees changing their shift with less than twenty-four (24) hours notice will be paid at the rate of one and one-half (1-1/2) the job rate for the first eight (8) hours worked on the new shift. It is understood that the provisions of paragraph 15.01 do not apply to this situation.
13.09	(a) When Operating on either a two-shift or a three-shift operation, employees shall be assigned one-half (1/2) hour paid lunch period.
(b)	An employee scheduled to work on either a two (2) shift operation or three (3) shift operation, who transfers for the convenience of the Company to a one (1) shift operation within his scheduled shift shall receive an additional one-half (1/2) hour’s pay at one and one half (1-1/2) times his regular straight time scheduled job rate.
(c)	Where work is offered under 13.09 (b) above and there are insufficient aualified volunteers to meet requirements, the Company may assign such work to employees within that location who are qualified to perform the work but in inverse order of seniority.
ARTICLE 14 REST PERIODS
14.01
(a) Relief or rest periods consisting of ten minutes in each half (1/2) of the shift of each work day shall be observed and the time shall be included as a part of the hours worked. The question of whether these periods are taken on a staggered system or by means of stopping work in respective departments of the factory shall be decided by the Company -30-
from time to time or the foreman of the department involved. The time of such periods shall be computed from the time employees leave work to the time of return,
(b) Employees who are assigned to shift work and who receive a paid lunch period shall receive only one of the relief or rest periods provided in Clause (a) above.
ARTICLE 15
REPORTING FOR WORK AND CALL-IN
15.01	Reporting Allowance — Employees reporting for work who have not been advised in advance to the contrary, will be given work for at least six (6) hours at scheduled job rate, or if no work is available, will be paid six (6) hours at scheduled job rate in lieu of work.
This obligation shall not prevail when the lack of work is caused due to circumstances beyond the control of Management nor when the employee has not kept the Company advised of his address and telephone number.
Similarly this obligation does not apply in the event an employee is suspended from work, or leaves work on his own volition or is already paid unuller paragraph 13.08.
15.02	An employee who is recalled to the plant to perform overtime work in the event of an emergency will be paid for not less than the equivalent of four (4) hours time at overtime rates. An employee who is called into work immediately prior to his regular shift will be paid overtime rates for all hours worked prior to such regular shift.
-31-
ARTICLE 16 SAFETY AND HEALTH
16.01
(a)	The Company shall make reasonable provisions for the safety and health of employees during the hours of their employment. Except for safety shoes or boots, protective devices and other equipment deemed necessary by the Company to protect employees properly from injury shall be supplied by the Company.
(b)	The Company shall pay sixty percent (60%) of the cost of one (1) pair of safety shoes per year for each employee up to a maximum of Fifty dollars ($50.00) commencing after an employee has been six (6) months with the Company. Effective May 1, 1989, the Company shall pay seventy percent (70%) of the cost of one (1) pair of safety shoes per year for each employee up to a maximum of Fifty dollars ($50.00) commencing after an employee has been six (6) months with the Company.
The Company shall pay one-half (1/2) the cost of a second pair of safety shoes if required in the year up to a maximum of Twenty-Five Dollars ($25.00) commencing after an employee has been six (6) months with the Company.
16.02
(a) A safety committee of not less than four (4) persons, with equal representation from the Union (at least one (1) employee from 1910 Fiuron Street location and one (1) employee from 430 Adelaide Street location) and the Company shall be formed to recommend action on safety matters.
-32-
(b)	(i) The Safety Committee will meet at regu-
lar intervals at the call of the Chairman but in any event, except in an emergency situation, not less frequently than six (6) times per year and not more frequently than once per month.
(ii)	The Chairman will give committee members a minimum of ten (10) days advance notice of the meeting date in order that members may submit items for the agenda of such meeting. Agenda items will be submitted to the Chairman at least three (3) days prior to the scheduled meeting date.
(iii)	The Committee shall determine its own procedures and a majority of the Committee shall constitute a quorum.
(iv)	Regular committee meetings should include a tour of the work place if required.
(c)	(i) Each Union nominee to the committee
shall also act as a “health and safety representative” under the Occupational Health and Safety Act, 1978.
(ii) In this regard, if, during the investigation of any complaint under the Occupational Health and Safety Act, the health and safety representative concurs with the Company that no hazard exists or that the complaint has been remedied, the employee who lodged the complaint must then continue to work as directed.
•33-
ARTICLE 17 INSURANCE PLANS
17.01	The employer shall pay on behalf of all eligible full-time employees subject to 17.03 who have completed their probationary period, the premium cost of the following insurance plane to be administered in accordance with the terms, rules and regulations of the respective plans:
(a)	O.H.I.P.
(b)	semi-private hospital room
(c)	extended health care (Ten Dollars ($10.00) single, Twenty Dollars ($20.00) family deductible)
(d)	dental plan (1986 O.D.A. Schedule).
Effective October 1,1988, the 1987 O.D.A. fee schedule.
Effective May 1, 1989, the 1988 O.D.A. fee
schedule.
(e)	life insurance with A.D. & D. in the amount of Fourteen Thousand Dollars ($14,000). Effective October 1,1988, life insurance with A.D. & D. in the amount of $15,000. Effective May 1, 1989, life insurance with A.D. & D. in the amount of $16,000.
(f)	Weekly Indemnity Plan based on 1-1-4-15 for all eligible employees who have ninety (90) days seniority with the Company. Payment shall be (66-2/3%) of an employee’s weekly earnings up to the maximum U.I.C. benefits.
17.02	Employees shall not be eligible for any of the insurance plans as outlined in paragraph
17.01	after they have reached age 65.
17.03	In the event an employee is off work due to a leave of absence or lay-off, the Company shall
-34-
continue to pay the premiums of the insurance outlined in paragraph 17.01 for the balance of the month that the leave of absence or lay-off commenced. However, employees on leave of absence or lay-off may elect to retain coverage in each of the plans during the leave of absence or lay-off by prepayment of the full monthly premium.
17.04	It is understood and agreed that in assessing the expense required for these negotiated employee benefits outlined within this Article, the parties have taken into account any and all savings or increases in premiums or elimination of premiums that may be realized during the period of this Agreement under the Unemployment Insurance Act, O.H.I.P. or any other Govern ment legislated plan, and the full employee’s portion of any savings resulting from this assessment are included as part of the negotiated wage increases and improved benefits contained in this Collective Agreement.
ARTICLE 18 PENSION
18.01	Effective May 1, 1989, the Company will establish an employee pension trust. The pension trust will comply with all existing applicable legislation and will be administered in accordance with the terms, rules and regulations of the plan. The pension trust will be funded on a money purchase bases. Employees will join the plan on the first day of the week followina the date on which the employee completes the-probationary period. The Employer will contribute 1.5% of each member’s gross earnings inclusive of vacation
-35-
pay. Employees will be allowed to makevoluntary contributions to the pension trust. All contributions shall be invested in Guaranteed Investment Certificates. Employees will receive semiannual statements as provided by the plan carrier. Full vesting will occur after two (2) years of membership in the pension trust.
ARTICLE 19 PAID HOLIDAYS
19.01	The Company agrees to pay all employees who are subject to this Agreement one (1) day’s pay at the employee’s current job rate for each of the said paid holidays subject to the following conditions:
(a)	A full time employee must have worked his last work day preceding the paid holiday and must work his full first work day following the paid holiday to be eligible for pay for the holiday. If a full time employee is absent on either his last work day preceding or his first work day following the paid holiday due to illness, the employee shall be eligible for pay for the Holdiay provided a medical doctor’s certificate is supplied and the employee works either his last work day preceding or his first work day following the paid holiday.
(b)	In order to be entitled to holiday pay, a new employee must have had at least four (4) consecutive weeks employment with the Company prior to the paid holiday.
(c)	No employee who is off work due to leave of absence, sick leave or Workers’ Compen-
-36-
sation shall be entitled to pay for any paid holiday occurring within such period.
(d)	Where the paid holiday occurs in the period in which an employee is on his scheduled vacation then the employee will receive pay for the paid holiday inaddition to his scheduled vacation pay.
(e)	Where any employee is laid off for a period exceeding fourteen (14) days and consequently absent from work either on the day prior to or the day following any such holiday, such employee shall not be entitled to pay for such holiday.
19.02	The following days shalal be observed as paid holidays:
New Year’s Day
The 3rd Monday in February
or Hertiage Day if Declard
Good Friday
Victoria Day
Canada Day
Civic Holiday
Labour Day
Thanksgiving Day
The day before Christmas Day
Christmas Day
Boxing Day
The day before New Year’s Day
19.03	The Company will post the date on which the paid holiday shall be observed at least three (3) weeks prior to such date. Paid holidays which fall on a Saturday or Sunday shall be observed on a regular work day.
■37-
ARTICLE 20 VACATIONS
20.01	The vacation period shall be fixed for the two (2) weeks immediately prior to the Civic Holiday weekend and during such two (2) week period the plant will be closed except for maintenance or repair work as required. Any part of earned vacation period in excess of two (2) weeks shall be taken at a time convenient to the employee and the Company.
20.02	Entitlement for annual vacation is based on the employee’s service with the Company.
20.03	Vacation entitlement for regular full time
employees shall be based on years of continuous service as a regular full time employee as follows: Years of Continuous Service	Vacation
Entitlement
1 year but less than 5 years 5 years but less than 12 years 12 years but less than 22 years 22 years or more continuous service
Effective May 1,1989
Years of Continuous Service	Vacation
Entitlement
1 year but less than 5 years 5 years but less than 10 years 10 years but less than 20 years 20 years or more continuous service
Vacations must be taken within months from entitlement.
38-
10 days 15 days 20 days 25 days
twelve (12)
10 days 15 days 20 days 25 days
20.04	Vacation pay shall be the rate of two-fifths (2/5) of one per cent (1%) of the previous year’s earnings for each day of vacation entitlement with a minimum of four percent (4%) of total earnings.
ARTICLE 21 LIMITATION OF WORK BY SUPERVISION
21.01	Non-bargaining unit. employees shall not perform work normally performed by members of the bargaining unit except in the following situations:
(i)	instructing employees; or
(ii)	testing or development of products, processes or equipment; or
(iii)	emergencies provided the Company has attempted to rectify the situtation.
ARTICLE 22
PAID EDUCATION LEAVE
22.01	The Company agrees to pay into a special fund one cent (.01) per hour per employee for all regular hours, for the purpsoe of providing paid educational leave.
The. purpose of Daid educational leave will be to upgrade the employees in all aspects of handling their Union functions in respect to employer/ employee relations including social services rendered to employees (Worker’s Compensation, U.I.C., C.P.P.). Such monies will be paid quarterly into a trust fund established and administered by the Union and accompanied by data showing the basis of payment.
-39-
The Company further agrees upon written notice received at least one (1) month in advance that up to six (6) members of the bargaining unit, no more than two (2) from any one department at one time, selected by the Union at attend the recognized Union educational courses, will be granted a leave of absence without pay for up to twenty (20) days actual instruction time, plus travel days, where necessary, in any twelve (12) month period. Seniority will continue to accrue during any such absence.
ARTICLE 23 TOOL ALLOWANCE
23.01	The Company shall continue its present policy of replacing broken or worn tools provided the damage was not as a result of negligence. The Company shall replace stolen tools provided there are signs of break and entry and there is a police report on file.
ARTICLE 24 DURATION
year unless within the period of ninety (90) days prior to the expiry date either party gives notice in writing of its desire to terminate or bargain with a view to the renewal with modifications. of the Agreement.
24.01	This Agreement shall become effective as, of September ID. 1988 and jihall remain in effect until and including April 30, 1990 and shall 'continue thereafter for successive terms of one (1)
■40-
Signed at London, Ontario, the 7th day of February 1989.
FOR THE UNION:
Leroy Oldham Nancy Swaine Bruce Day Jannette Baynham Charmaine Fralick Jack Erskine
FOR THE COMPANY:
Garry W. Foster W. F. Broughton
■41
SCHEDULE “A”
EFFECTIVE SEPTEMBER 10TH, 1988, ALL REGULAR HOURLY RATES SHALL BE AS
FOLLOWS:
Classification	Job Grade	Hiring Rate 0 to 45 Working Days	46 to 120 Working Days	121 to 240 Working Days	241 Working Days or More
General Help	 1 General Packer Big Mouth Drilling Card Slitter Novelty Candy Filling Box Machine Packers for: Tart'N'Tiny/Nerds DinaSour Eggs/Juice Gobstoppers/Midget DinaSour Runts		7.76	7.91	7.96	8.01
Hollow Ball inspector....	2	5TTJ5	on	022	8.27
Slab Gum Inspector Turn Table
Machine Operator Fors Card Cross cutter
& Collator Mach.......... 3
General Packaging Mach.
Mira Pak Machine Focgrove (Model 42B)
Machine
Packaging Machinery (Model DP) Machine Thrills Machine Multi-Pak Machine Auto wrap Machine
Flavour & uye ............
Operator Trainer
Quality conct(illtil r.....	5
Material Handler Case Sealer Processing Helper Janitor
Assistant shipper
8.32	8.37	8.42
it.04
—43—
CONT'D classification	Job Grade	Hiring Rate 0 to 45 Working Days	46 to 120 Working Days	121 to 240 Working Days	241 Working Days or Wore
Extruder Operator		 Tablet Press Operator	. . 6	9.25	9.40	9715	9.50
ease Maker	 Powder Blender Pan Room Operator Polishing Room Operator utility Person	7	9.42	4.57	9752	9.67
Shipper	 Gum Maker	a	9.70	§755	9755	9.95“
Roaster and Fryer	 Operator Truck Driver	. . 9	9.93	10.08	10.13	10.18
—44—
EFFECTIVE MAY 1ST, 1989, ALL REGULAR HOURLY RATES SHALL BE AS FOLLOWS:
Job Classification Grade	Hiring Rate 0 to 45 Working Days	46 to 120 Working Days	121 to 240 Working Days	241 Working Days or More
General Help............. 1 General Packer Big Mouth Drilling Card Slitter Novelty Candy Filling Box Machine Packers for: Tart1N1Ti ny/Nerds DinaSour Eggs/Juice Gobstoppers/Midget DinaSour Runts	4.11	8.26	8.31	8.36
Hollow Ball Inspector.... 2 Slab Gum Inspector Turn Table	8.37 -45-	8.52	8.57	8.62
Machine Operator For:
Card Cross Cutter
& Collator Mach........... 3	8*52	8.67	8.72	8.77
General Packaging Mach.
Mira Pak Machine Forgrove (Model 42B)
Machine
Packaging Machinery (Model DF)Machine Thrills Machine Multi-Pak Machine Auto Wrap Machine
Flavour 6 Dye Mixer...... 4	8.80	8.95	9.00	9.05
Operator Trainer
quality controller......... 5	9.19	9.34	9-39	9.44"
Material Handler Case Sealer Processing Helper Janitor
Assistant Shipper
—46—
CONT'D: Classification —	Job Grade	Hiring Rate 0 to 45 Working Days	46 to 120 Working Days	121 to 240 Working Days	241 Working Days or More
tactruaer Operator Tablet Press Operator	6	9.60	9.75	9.80	9.85
Base Maker				9. 77	9. 92	9. 97	10.02
Powder Blender Pan Room Operator Polishing Room Operator Utility Person					
Gum Maker		8		10.05	10.20	10.25	10.30
Roaster and Fryer	 Operator Truck Driver	9	10.28	10.43	10.48	10.53
—47—
SCHEDULE“B”
CTTBCTIVB SEPTEMBER 10TH, 1988, ALL REGULAR HOURLY TOTES SHALL BE AS FOLLOWS»
	uk kikim ua	uk un	UK UTO	uk turn
amtnanov	0 10 41	U TO 1Z«	121 TO iU	HI OK MM
	UU1K Mil	WQKUM MIS	uaamaua	WMKM MTK
um tain.							}.t)			9.9i		
	UK	.75 fua 8AM	l.SO rum Mat	un	.71 rum UK	1.38 MM	un	.n MM	i.sa naa MM	ua	URil .71 VLM UM	uiiii 1.10 VLM MM
nuKMiM/raoomu* MOUMO	ta.ja	11.11	ll.M	18.91	11.28	IM1	18.98	UJ)	ll.M	I8.4J	11.18	12.11
rtcuciM raocaaaiM	tl.24	11*99	12*74	11.19	12.14	ISM	11.44	12.19	12.94	11.49	<2.24	12.99
■ ! 13 ill	11.91	tl.88	11.41	ll.M	12.81	11.98	12.11	12.88	11.81	12.18	12.91	11.88
noutw rascnatn KOUMCS	12.47	11.11	11.97	11.41	11.17	14.12	12.87	1102	14.17	12.72	11.47	14.22
-48—
EFFECTIVE MAY 1ST, 1989 ALL REGULAR HOURLY RATES SHALL BE AS FOLLOWS:
CUMIfICATIM	kui ZIIIRB SATt 0 TO 4) WUIM IMP*			MO* MTS 44 TO 120 wowoe MTS			SAM SAT* 111 TO 240 mam oats			BASS BATS 241 0* HORS WOW IS MTS		
am LCfiL	10.00			10.22			i	0.20		10.33		
	MU 1411	SATRli .75 M USX	1.50 rtm SAM	1AM UR	RATS l1 .75 rtoo BASC	KATE 12 1.50 rtoo SAM	SAB Ml*	IAT0H .75 AM SAM	RATSl2 1.50 ruo SAM	BASK SA2*	RATStl .75 AM BAM	RATStl 1.50 PLUS ■AOS
ctoor i rAcueiK/nMmn Mauncs	10.72	11.a	12.23	10.00	11.42	12.30	10.93	11.40	12.42	10.9*	11.73	12.40
MOOT 2 MOCACtKO mOCEMIB muina	11.51	12.24	13.09	11.74	12.49	13.24	11.79	12.54	13.29	11.04	12.59	13.24
MOOT 3 PACZACtae meustM maun ci	12.24	11.01	13.74	12.41	13.14	13.91	12.44	13.21	13.94	12.51	13.24	14.01
r*auetMS nocuits mciAMCS	12.42	13.27	14.32	12.97	13.72	14.47	13.02	12.77	(4.52	13.07	13.02	14.37
(OCOCXIZEB	KATZt I la4«acr(«l	0***« 7 Kill VrigM
aiTirtCAm
PKkiti*| IMUm HKkMiti
—49—
SCHEDULE "B* (Cont'd)
The following in an outlina of tha criteria used to establish tha
various baa* rates.	
Entry Level	Baployees entering the Maintenance Departaent with less than two years Maintenance related job experience. -
Croup 1 Packs? i ng/Processing Mechanics	Have successfully completed and Maintains <1> to (5> credits, or entry frocs outside the •Maintenance Departaent with a minimum of two or more years previous naintensnee related job experience and with a time limit of one year to achieve the Minimum credits for Group 1.
Croup 2 Packsging/Processing Mechanics	Rave successfully completed and Maintains (6) to (11) credits, or entry from outside the Maintenance Department with a minimum of five or more years previous msintsnsnca related job experience and with a time Unit of two yeera to achieve the minimum credits for Group 2.
Group 3 Packaging/processing Mechanics	Rave succeaefully completed and maintains (12) to (25) credits, or entry from outside the Maintenance Department with a minimum of eight or more years previous maintenance related job experience and with a time limit of three years to achiava the minimus credits for Group 3.
Croup 4 packaging/processing Mechanics	Rave auccesafully completed and maintained more than (25) cradits.
SCOTPOLE *B» (COfltM)
tews* otrnxnoiM awo cowoitxom
1.	BMployo* priority for training shall bo baaad oa tho naode of tho Company. Tho Coapony ahall dttoraino if tho aoployeo hu eho afcill, ability and aptltado to bo traiaod on apoeifio pioeoo of oquipaant.
2.	Tho following i« a Hot of aachino eotogorlao aad crodita aooooiatod to oaehi
HJUaiHC CATEGORIES Aeto Wrap Haehlnoo Pua Oip Kaehinoa Haiti Pack Kaehinoa Niro Pat Naebinoa Boa Kaehinoa
tig Koath Drill Maehinoo Single Stroke Proaaoa Rotary Proaaoa D02 and 533 proaaoa Overwrap Kaehinoa Novelty Plllora Blondora Porgrovao
O.P. Card Kaehinoa D.f. Guo Kaehinoa
CREDIT
3
3
3
2
2
1
1
2
2
l
1 1 3
2 2
KACBXMt CATEGORIES Card Collatera Card Slittara Thrill Kaehinoa Extruders Mlxara
Spray syataaa Rottioa * Pane
Gonoral packaging Haehlnoo
Roaatara
Pryoro
Shakers
Sugar syataaa
Gold Rnah Haehlnoo
Shrink Wrap Kaehinoa
Grinder*
CREDIT
3
1
3.	An taploya* will only raeaiva cradita for a machinery
category provided ho ,hoo the qualifications* experience and ha* mC ail of th# aatabliahod criteria aot ooe in eho training requirements ouch that ho ia fully aoie to perfora tho job in an afflciant aannar without further training.
SCBgOOLB (Cont'dJ
4.	An employee idiRtUlid by the Company* who dona not fully none all of ttta critoria established by tho Coopany for each place of equipment for which ha has received cradle shall be required to cake additional training to upgrade hia skills to fully meet the established criteria ae see out in the training reqeiraments for said equipment.
In the event the aeployee does nott
I)	accept the training) or
II)	successfully eaet the established criteria
he ahall lose the credits associated with the eachine in question* and ha shall revert back to the wage rate aaeociated with the nunbar of credits Cor the Machinery for which he is Cully able to neat tne required criteria.
5.	No credits will be assigned other than those outlined in (2) above.
Any new piece of equipment which does not fail within the present eetegorias will be rated by the Company aftar a aia week familiarisation period.
6.	The number oC earned credits is based on the number of credits an employee haa acquired, lean the number oC credits deducted as a result oC equipment not in production Cor one year or redesigned equipment.
7.	a) Creditlsl will be deducted Cron an employee's rating
Cor equipment that haa been redeslqnad or has not been in production Cor one year. The employee will havo an opportunity to train in another category in order to maintain his credit laveis.
b) In the event an employee does nott
i)	accept training in another machine category) or
ii)	successfully meet the established criteria as eat out in the training requirements.
he shall revert back to the wage rate associated to the number of earned credits.
8.	Other than Cor the purpose of experimentation, or testing a piece of equipment which haa not bean in production Cor one year, an employee will regain ail lost credits once the equipment is Cully in production again and the employee has demonstrated thee he Cully meet* all of the established criteria aa sat out in the training requirements.
9.	A redesigned piece of equipment meant extensive design changes wnich would result in an emoloyte losing the credits aaaigned to that machine. Maintenance employees would then have to meet the established criteria as set out in the trainine requirements of the re<^teaigned piece of equipment to qualify for tho credits assigned to that machine.
•53-
sarecot* 'c* (coae'd)
i 1911 * AM. IWMI BOOKLT RATCS UALL U Al rOUONti
•54-
aewnnmn "c« (Coat'd)
The following Is so outline of tbo critsrls used to aetebllab t)M ▼•clous boss rate#.
Bloetrielan/Keebinlet Most Him tin qualifications sad
-experience •• wall so being capeblo of Isncning nod epnratlng on nil available or now equipment within tholr required spoeifientlons and doing nil rnquirod oporntioni and/or repairs la an efficient* co-operative manor demonstrating at all Unas, tba necessary '	skills and ability to do tba job while
holding a valid Ontario Journeyman's License.
ilaetrleian/Nneblnlst
Apprenticeship
Apprenticeship bevel 1 toployees entering an apprenticeship
prograa with acquired boars of 0 to 2000.
Apprenticeship Level 2 Baployeee Creai Level 1 or those hired with acquired hours of 2001 to 4000.
Apprenticeship Level 3
toployees frost Level 2 or thooe birod with acquired houra of 4001 to (000.
Appronticeahip Level 4 laployeee troa Level 3 or thooo hired with acquired houra of C001 to 0000.
Stores •A*	All the deties of "8“ below ud including
sotting ap and Maintaining an approved stores aystea* with appropriate doeuaentaelon to track equipasnt costs* inventory costs* re-order quantities. Should bo capable of using a coaputar terminal and prepared to take appropriate , courses or aaainara in order to upgrade and aaiotala new or existing systaas.
stores *B*	Receives* stores and ieanee aaterlale.
rills orders froa reqoisitioaa. Handles end identifies all types of aaterlal* and parts without instruction. Initiates purchase orders . . required. Maintains the proper inventory of required part*
• £ Mterials in an acceptable aannar.
•55-
8CBBD0LB "C* (Coat'd)
Bullding/General
Maintenance 'H* All tha datiaa of "B" below and including the oparating and Maintaining of various types of stationary equipment and mechanical equipment such aa boilers, pumps, compressors and rafrlgaratlon equipment, etc* Lays out, installs and maintains complete high pressure piping installations for a variety of equipment such as compressors and boLlecs. install and maintain low pressure installations, including sprinkler systems.
Must hold a goveriuMnt approved up to date certificate or license fort
1* Pipe Fitter or
2.	Gas Fitter or
3.	Third Class Operating Engineer or
4.	Refrigeration or.
3. Millwright
and/or equivalent*
Building/General
Maintenance "B” Minor maintenance of building e.g. rough partitions, shelves, repair door/loeks, etc. Construct and install racks, cabinets, benches, jigs and fixtures. Repair wooden equipment. Fabricate, assembles, installs and repairs sheet metal items. Assembles, installs and maintains air, gas, water and waste disposal systems. Assists in the layout, installation and maintenance of various types of plant operating equipment.
■56-
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
Mr. Jack Erskine
Glass, Molders, Pottery, Plastics
&Allied Workers International Union
400 Adelaide Street North London, Ontario N6B 3H6
RE: The definition of a re-designed piece of equipment Dear Mr. Erskine:
This letter will serve to clarify the understandingreached between the parties with regard to the definition of a re-designed piece of equipment as provided for in Schedule “B” — Terms, Definitions and Conditions Number 9, of the Collective Agreement.
An example of re-designed piece of equipment is the U.F.O, machine. Originally a plastic bottom half was inserted into the machine manually. The plastic bottom half was then filled automatically with candy. The top half was placed over the bottom half manually and both pushed together by an air cylinder. A label is then placed on the top of the U.F.O, automatically, and then packed into a display box. This machine operated at a speed of seventy-two (72) strokes per minute.
The product O.F.O. has been discontinued and the machine redesigned to produce a combination of products which are Giant DinaSour Eggs, which have one (1) egg per box, Giant DinaSour Eggs, which have two (2) eggs per box and the Juice flavoured products.
These products are all small cartons of approximately the same size, which automatically feed into the machine, gluded automatically on the bottom, filled automatically, glued automatically on the top and discharged from the machine to be packed into a display box at a speed of one hundred and forty (140) strokes per minute.
-57-
page 2
Each of the small cartons requires a certain amount of change-over time each time a different product is required.
The re-design was very extensive, ultimately changing the machine completely to produce different products. Often we will introduce auxiliary pieces of equipment to the main packaging machine, such as a packing aid for the packer. Although this is a change, it becomes part of the packaging machine requiring a certain amount of time to learn. The change is not extensive enough to be considered a re-design.
Other exampes ofchanges that have occurred in the past, which would not be considerd as a redesign change are: weight changes or size changes or count changes, such as 3 cent Bazooka, 5 cent Bazooka, 10 cent Bazooka, 15 cent SweeTarts, and 30 cent Bottlecaps. Changes to equipment that are of a minor nature that do not affect the basic operation, will not be considered as a re-design change.
Sincerely,
O-PEE-CHEE COMPANY LIMITED
Mr. Garry W. Foster
Vice President - Manufacturing
Acknowledgement on behalf of the Union Jack Erskine
Date: September 10,1988
•58-
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
Mr. Jack Erskine
Glass, Molders, Pottery, Plastics
& Allied Workers International Union
400 Adelaide Street North
London, Ontario
N6B 3H6
RE: Articlae 9 ■ Seniority and Promotions Dear Mr. Erskine
This letter will serve to confirm our understanding reached during negotiations concerning the administration of Article 9 - SENIORITY AND PROMOTIONS, paragraph 9.07. The following illustration will demonstrate the procedure under paragraphs 9.07(a), (b) and (c):
Location 1	Location 2
(Adelaide Street)	(Huron Street)
Job Classification — 4 Job Classification — 4 Seniority Ranking 1	Seniority Ranking 4
Seniority Ranking 2	Seniority Ranking 6
Seniority Ranking 3
Seniority Ranking 5 Job Classification — 3 Job Classification — 3
If the job of the most senior employee (seniority ranking — I) working in job classification 4 is eliminated, the following examples will illustrate some of the possible ramifications:
59-
EXAMPLE I
Location 1
tS
(1 Qualified) -
Location 2 ■»6 (5 Qualified)
“•Most junior employee in job classification 3 that 6 is qualified to perform.
EXAMPLE 2
Location 1
Location 2
£
- -4 (3 Qualified)
6 (3 not qualified) (4 not qualified) (5 not qualified)
*3 (1 Qualified) ----------
5(1 not qualified)
/	(3 not qualified)-*"'
I 4 Qualified (Most junior employee in job classification 3 that 5 is qualified to perform.
It is agreed and understood that the term location as used in paragraph 9.07 (d) is any one of the areas described below:
Location
1. Gum Processing
2. Packaging
Description 430 Adelaide Street -Basement - Base Making —2nd Floor - #4 Extruder
—3rd Floor Annex
430 Adelaide Street -Basement -Card Cutting & Collating —1st Floor
—2nd Floor (excluding *4 Extruder)
-60-
3.	Adelaide Street	Annex and 430 Adelaide St.
Mechanical	-all maintenance
(excluding janitors)
4.	Candy Processing 1910 Huron Street
-Processing and Material Handling 1295 Clarke Road Warehouse
5.	Candy Packaging 1910 Huron Street
-Packaging
6.	Huron Street	1910 Huron Street
Mechanical	-All Maintenance
Sincerely,
O-PEE-CHEE COMPANY LIMITED
Mr. Garry W. Foster Plant Manager
Acknowledgement on behalf of the Union Jack Erskine
Date: September 10, 1988
■61
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
Mr. Jack Erskine
Glass, Molders, Pottery, Plastics
& Allied Workers International Union
400 Adelaide Street North
London, Ontario
N6B 3H6
RE: Promotion of Plant Employees to a
Classification within the Maintenance Department as outlined in Schedules “B” and “C” of this Agreement.
Dear Mr. Erskine:
This letter will confirm our understanding with regard to an applicant who is presently employed in the Production
Department who successfully receives a position within
the Maintenance Department that:
(a)	there would be probationary period of 60 working
(b)	if the employee was found not to be suitable, tha
employee would be transferred back to his previous classification; and
(c)	any vacancy caused by the posting for the Maintenance Department position would not be posted until the successful completion of the 60 working days probationary period.
Sincerely,
O-PEE-CHEE COMPANY LIMITED
Mr. Garry W. Foster
Vice President • Manufacturing
Acknowledgement on behalf of the Union
Jack Erskine
Date: September 10,1988
—62—
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
Mr. Jack Erskine
Glass, Molders, Pottery, Plastics
& Allied Workers International Union
400 Adelaide Street North
London, Ontario
N6B 3H6
RE: Machine categories and credits associated to each. Dear Mr. Erskine:
This letterwill serve to clarify the understanding reached between the parties with regard to machine categories and credits associated to each, as provided for in Schedule “B” -Terms, Definitions and Conditions Number 2, of
the Collective Agreement.
Similar or like machines have been grouped together to create one (1) machine category. This normally occurs
when the mechanical function of the machine is considered to be the same or similar or combined in an operation. Usually training is only required on one piece of equipment and the rest of the equipment in the same category may require no more than a few days of orientation.
i. e. We currently have four (4) box machines.
1 — Tart'N’Tiny, 35 cents Nerds 1 — Gobstoppers, DinaSour Eggs 1 — Giant Dinasour Eggs, Juice 1 — Runts, 10 cent Nerds, 35 cent Nerds
4 Total
■63-
page 2
Although there are four (4) separate machines, they are
only considered to be one (1) category.
Each machine category has been assigned a specific number of credits, based on the degree of difficulty for
each piece of equipment.
A rating of one (1) would be a machine that requires fewer skills and less experience to maintain in an efficient manner, where a higher rating of three (3) would be a
machine that requires a much higher degree of skill and a lot of experience to maintain in an efficient manner.
Therefore, each category has been weighted based upon their degree of difficulty.
Sincerely,
O-PEE-CHEE COMPANY LIMITED
Mr. Garry M. Foster
Vice President • Manufacturing
Acknowledgement on behalf of the Union
Jack Erskine
Date: September 10, 1988
-64-
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
Mr. Jack Erskine
Glass, Molders, Pottery, Plastics
& Allied Workers International Union
400 Adelaide Street North
London, Ontario
N6B 3H6
RE: Time Cards
Dear Mr. Erskine:
This letter will serve to confirm the understanding
reached during negotiations that employees do not have to punch their time card in or out, if they are not leaving the premises at meal break.
Sincerely,
O-PEE-CHEE COMPANY LIMITED
Mr. Garry W. Foster
Vice President - Manufacturing
Acknowledgement on behalf of the Union Jack Erskine
Date: September 10,1988
-65-
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
Mr. Jack Erskine
Glass, Molders, Pottery, Plastics
& Allied Workers International Union
400 Adelaide Street North
London, Ontario
N6B 3H6
RE: Production Incentive Bonus Dear Mr. Erskine:
This letter will serve to confirm the understanding reached during negotiations concerning the Production
Incentive Bonus.
The attached outline details the method by which the Incentive Bonus System has operated in the past. It is
agreed that such system will continue as outlined for the duration of the Collective Agreement now being entered into.
Sincerely,
O-PEE-CHEE COMPANY LIMITED
Mr. Garry W. Foster
Vice President ■ Manufacturing
Acknowledgement on behalf of the Union
Jack Erskine
Date: September 10,1988
—66—
September 10,1988
PRODUCTION INCENTIVE BONUS The “Production Incentive Bonus” is a method of sup plementing the hourly wage payment of production employees involved in packing operations and all employees in the Maintenance Department.
Production employees when performing “fill-in” or temporary jobs such as special promotions or prepacks
(deals) and bulk packs, or other packing operations which are designated as such, do not participate in the bonus scheme.
The details of the Production Incentive Bonus system are as follows:
PRODUCTION EMPLOYEES
For every packaging machine operation in the plant, the Union and Management had mutually agreed on the speed of the machinein packages per minute, the amount of downtime required on the machine (i.e. lunch, breaks, changing paper, mechanical adjustments, personal fatigue, etc.) and the resulting output of the machine operating at 100% efficiency in an 8 hour shift.
From the above data, a bonus structure is developed which pays the employee 20$ per hour for all hours worked on the bonus job, when the machine operates at 70% efficiency, increasing to 50$ per hour for all hours worked on the bonus job, when the machine operates at 100% efficiency.
For efficiencies between 70% and 100%, bonus payments
rise accordingly:
i.e. at 80% efficiency, the bonus payment is 30$ per hour for all hours worked on the bonus job and at 90% -67-
efficiency, the bonus payment is 40$ per hour for all
hours worked on the bonus job. In summary, for each 1% increase in efficiency above 70%, the bonus rate
increases by 1$ per hour.
For efficiencies over 100%, bonus payments are paid
accordingly:
i.e. at 101%efficiency, the bonus payment is 51$ per hour for all hours worked on the bonus job and at 110% efficiency, the bonus payment is 60$ per hour for all
hours worked on the bonus job.
When employees are assigned to a specific packaging
machine operation for less than a whole shift, the bonus structure is adjusted accordingly:
i.e. an employee operates a machine for 4 hours of a shift and is then transferred to another operation. If in the 4 hour period, the machine operates at 100% efficiency, the employee will be paid 50$ per hour for the four hours.
A “pre-production” bonus shall apply for a B-week period to new packaging operations or to existing packaging operations that have undergone a major change. This is to compensate employees while they are learning a new machine or operation. The “pm-production” Bonus operates at a level of efficiency of 70% of the final incentive schedule.
i. e. If the final 100% efficiency is to be 1000 boxes per shift, the 100% pre-production efficiency will be .70 x 1000 = 700 boxes and the 70% pre-production efficiency will be .70 x 700 =490 boxes. The hourly bonus
rates are then adjusted to this efficiency schedule.
A minimum incentive bonus on production machines of 20$ per hour on established bonus jobs, shall apply where production is reduced by more than one (1) hour, due to
lack of supplies.
—68—
The Union, through its Union Committee, and/or the Company, has had the right to request a review of any bonus rate. Any such request to be in writing - giving
reason for review.
A review shall consist of 2 Work Studies to be completed within 30 days. Any adjustment up or down — to an incentive bonus rate has then been discussed between the Union Committee, the employee involved, and the Company.
Bonus rates may also be reviewed by the Company because of the introduction of new material and/or new equipment, the simplification to present equipment and/or manufacturing methods or procedures and if errors have been made in the initial standards and rates may be subsequently altered if the standards have changed by at least 5% as a result of the changes mentioned above.
Bonus rates for new products and/or operations (where feasible) are established between the Company and the
Union Committee after the necessary work studies have been completed.
A manual outlining the schedules of the Production Incentive Bonuses for each packaging machine operation in our plant is available on request.
MAINTENANCE DEPARTMENT
All employees in the Maintenance Department receive a Production Incentive Bonus based on the weekly operating efficiency of all packaging machine operations as
posted weekly by the Production Department.
•69-
Based on a 40 hour week, all Maintenance employees receive an hourly incentive rate based on the following schedule:
PLANT
OPERATING EFFICIENCY INCENTIVE RATE
Below 70%	0<P	per hour
At 70%	35<f	per hour
at 71%	35.5$	per hour
at 72%	36$	. per hour
at 73%	36.5$	per hour
at 74%	37$	per hour
etc., etc., etc.		
at 100%	50$	per hour
at 101%	50.5$	per hour
September 10,1988
•70-