RATIFIED JUNE 15 1993 INDEX
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT WILLIAM NEILSON LTD./7EAMSTERB-L0CAL 647
HALTON HILLS DAIRY "------
JANUARY 1, 1993 - DECEMBER 31, 1995
SOURCE			
iff,		<Pi	
TERM.		I 2.	dL
Mo. OF
EMPLOYEES
NOM2RE
D'EMPlOY^S
121
M.
ARTICLE
SUBJECT
PAGE
14.15
27
5
"3" & “C" (3)
1.01,1.02
26.03 13
4.03
14.02,14.11
1.01,1.02
"G"

6 ■ 5.07
19
Absenteeism & Notification Agreement, Expiry & Renewal Arortration, Grievance Procedures. Apprenticeship Programme Bargaining Unit, See Scope Bereavement
Bidding For Vacant Positions 3uiletin Boards
Call-In Pay, See Days & Hours. Of Work Check-Off, Union Dues & Deductions. Complaint Procedure Collective Agreement, See Scope Co.V.-Cf-Living Allowance (COLA,)
Days And Hours Of Work Dental Plan
uisaaiity, AD&.D, S i D, L i D ■ Discharge, Tennination Of Employment Discipline, Progressive Procedure Dock Pick-Ups	•
Truck Jockeys'& Garage Employees, Rules
17
27
8
30,31
5
25
5
S
£
1 J
25
34,35
a
a
24
Page 2
ARTICLE	SUBJECT	PAGE
"G*	Drug Plan	38
15.08	Float Days, Booking	19
25	General Notes	25
5	Grievance Procedures/Arbitration	8
15	Holiday Pay Pian	19
"G"	Hospital, OHIP, Semi-Private, Ambulance	35
14	Hotins Of Work	15
14.20	injury Shift Guarantee	18
13	Job Postings, Procedures	14
25.10	Jury Duty	25
il	Lay-Offs & Recall	13
I u	Leave Of Absence	13
19.01	License, Driver's Loss Of	21
"G“	Life Insurance; Active/Retired Employees	33
4.10	Negotiations, Committer & Pay	7
"G"	Employer Health Tax	38
14	Overtime, Hours & Meal Allowance	15
"A"	Pay Rates: Plant	28,29
”3M	Trades.	30
"C"	Garage	31
MD"	Toronto Depot	31
ii—	London Depot	32
»l— u r	COLA	32
21.01	Pension Pian	23
8,"AN(5)	Probationary Employees & Rates	10,29
7.05	Promotion, Outside Bargaining Unit	9
Page 3
ARTICLE	SUBJECT	PAGE
2	Recognition	6
12.01	Re-Employment, Seniority List 1 Year	14
9	Relief Staff	10
14.16,14.17	Rest Periods	17
20	Safety	22
20.06	Safety Shoes	22
22	Sale Or Acquisition	24
1	Scope	5
7	Seniority, Establishing	9
7.03	Seniority, On Re-Employment	9
25	Severance Pay	24
21.01	Sick benefits: Pension Plan	23
"G“	Semi-Private & Ambulance	35
"G"	Short Term Disability	34
21.04	Sick Pay	24
"G"	Special Accident Benefit	35
“G"	Weekly Indemnity/LTD	34,35
"A” (1)	Shift Premiums: Plant	25
"3" (2)	Trades	30
15	Statutory Holidays & Lieu Days	19
4	Stewards, Rules Pertaining To	7
26.05	Strikes & Lock-Outs	25
24	Supervisors, Allowable Duties	24
6	Termination, Rules Applying	9
•C" (2)	Tool Allowance: Garage.	31
"B" (D	Trades	30
16.02	Top-Up ?ay	19
13.10
Unbid Jobs
15
4>- M NJ
ARTICLE
SUBJECT
PAGE
18	Uniforms:
17
•4.10	Union:
4.08
3 & 26.14
26.09
.02
Garage, Maintenance, Refrig	21
Plant	20
Bargaining Committee, Pay	7
Bulletin Board	7
Dues	6,26
Leave-Of-Absence On Business	26
New Employee's Membership	6
Recognition	6
Stewards	7
15	Vacation, Entitlement & Booking	18
"G"	Visioncare Pian	38
26.12	Warning Letters, Withdrawal	26
"A" (6)	Washup Time (Personal)	30
Page 5
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT This Agreement, effective the 1st day of January 1993 BETWEEN
MILK AND BREAD DRIVERS, DAIRY EMPLOYEES,
CATERERS AND ALLIED EMPLOYEES,LOCAL UNION 647
affiliated with the International Brotherhood of Teamsters,
Chauffeurs, Warehousemen and Helpers of America, hereinafter referred to as the "UNION"
- AND-
WILLIAM NEILSON LIMITED hereinafter referred to as the "COMPANY"
WITNESSETH:
It is !he desire of the parties to this Agreement to establish, promote and foster a good relationship that will be enduring and of mutual benefit to both the Union and the Company.
I is the essence of this Agreement that Ihere shall Se e> maximum of co-operalion and of help from the employees of the Company to obtain all possible business and expand the operation of this Company and the parties hereto pledge their full support and co-operation in this regard.
ARTICLE 1 -SCOPE
1.01	This agreement shall cover every employee of the Company employed in cr about the Milk Pasteurizing plant in the Halton Hills (Georgetown) area who are listed in the wage appendices of this agreement and any additional classifications added during the term of this agreement.
1.02	The Company agrees that if the existing operations covered by this Collective Agreement, or any pari of them, are transferred, moved or otherwise relocated to a location outside the geographic area of the Bargaining Unit, the employees covered by this Agreement shall have their seniority and bidding rights on job vacancies protected subject to the Law. The Company shall notify the Union at least two (2) months in advance of any transfer, move, or relocation.
Page 6
ARTICLE 2 - RECOGNITION
2.01	The Company agrees to recognize the Milk and Bread Drivers, Dairy Employees, Caterers and Allied Employees Local Union No. 647, affiliated with the International Brotherhood of Teamsters, Chauffeurs, Warehousemen and Helpers as the sole Collective Bargaining Agency for all such employees coming within the Bargaining Unit.
2.02	All employees of the Company covered by this agreement must, after 60 days or 480 hours worked from the date of hiring, become and remain members of the Union in good standing during the life of this agreement as a condition of employment.
2.03	The Company agrees to contact the Union office regarding hiring employees who are covered by this agreement and to hire unemployed members of Local 647. If a referred member of the Union is, for some reason, not acceptable, such reasons will be discussed between the Company and the Union.
2.04	The Company further agrees to inform all new employees who are covered by this .agreement (including those hired .to fill temporary vacancies caused by illness, emergency or any other cause and those hired forthe summer vacation period) that Union membership is a condition of employment after 60 days or 480 hours worked from the-date of hiring. The Company undertakes to inform the Chief Steward whenever a new employee is hired
2.05	The Company will give written notice of the names of new employees hired to the Union office monthly via payment of dues submitted by the Payroll Dept.
2.06	The Company will give written notice of the names of relief staff hired to the Union office monthly via payment of dues submitted by the Payroll Dept.
2.07	New employees shall be liable to pay the full amount of union dues (excluding initiation fee) for the week in which they are hired. In the first 60 days or480 hours worked, the Company will deduct the appropriate amounts from their wages and remit the same in accordance with the provisions of Art. 3 hereof, as if they were regular employees. After GO days or 480 hours worked, all employees must, as a condition of continued employment, become members of the Union in accordance with the provisions of the Union constitution and bylaws. In the case of every employee, the Company agrees to deduct from his date of hiring the full Union initiation fee then in force and to remit the same to the Union office
ARTICLE 3 - CHECK-OFF
3.01	The Company agrees to deduct, each month, from the pay of each employee an amount equivalent to the Union dues and assessments owing by each employee for Union purposes. The Union shall notify the Company in writing as to the prevailing rates of Union dues and any assessments. The amounts so deducted shall be remitted to the Union no laier than the twentieth (20th) day of the month for which the deduction is made
3.02	The Company further agrees that in the event of an employee being on vacation at the time of the regular deduction, such deduction shall be made from the employee's vacation pay. <
3.03	In the case cf a Union member being off through sickness or injury on the dues deduction pay, his dues shall be deducted from the first (1st) full week's pay after his return to work, unless the Company is otherwise informed by the Secretary Treasurer of the Union.
Page 7
ARTICLE 4 -STEWARDS
4.01.	(a) The Company shall recognize a total of six (6) stewards of which two will be from
Wage Appendix A and one from each of Wage Appendices B, C, D, and E. From this group of-six, the stewards from Wage Appendix A shall be elected as Chief Stewards. The role of the elected stewards shall be to ensure that both parties to the collective agreement shall live up to the provisions of the collective agreement and to report any infractions of such provisions and rules as per Article 5.
(b)	It is understood that if the regular steward is absent, that one cf the other elected stewards shall deal with the grievance.
(c)	The Chief Steward, or an alternate elected steward representing the area in which the grievance is filed shall attend the third stage grievance hearing with the grievor.
4.02	Stewards shall be elected by Union members or appointed by the Executive Board and shall have been an employee for a minimum of one year. There shall be no discrimination against the Steward for union activities.
4.03	The Steward shall have no authority to alter, amend, violate or otherwise change any part ofthis Agreement. The Steward shall report to the Business Agent of the Union any violation of this Agreement. The Steward shall be considered the senior employee in the craft group in which he is employed in the event of lay-off only
4.04	A list of all the Stewards will be provided by the Union and Management shall keep the Stewards informed of all union personnel changes Including lay-off. This information shall be considered confidential.
4.05	A copy of the Company bulletin pertaining to Union members shall be given to the Steward.
4.05	The Steward shall be allowed time to service any grievance. Representatives of tne Union shall be allowed to contact the Steward by asking permission of the appropriate manager.
4.07	The Union representative, Steward, and Business Agent shall advise the Manager/Supervisor on duty of his presence for access to the Company premises at any reasonable time, to see that the agreement is be'ng complied with. Security procedures must Se observed.
4.08	The Company will supply Union Notice Boards.
4.09. When Stewards are brought in for consultation by Management at a lime after they have completed their normal work day, they shall be compensated for the accumulation of the hours at the appropriate rate of pay.
4.10 The Company agrees that the Chief Stewards and Stewards shall be paid a regular day's pay for each day or portion thereof at negotiations. It is further agreed that the Bargaining Committee will be limited to a total of seven (7) persons.
E 5 ■ GRIEVANCE
CEDI
5.01	The Company shall entertain a complaint for alleged breaches of any provision of this agreement. The complainant may approach supervisory personnel for an amicable discussion and solution and it is understood that an employee has no grievance until he has firstgiven his immediate supervisor the opportunity of adjusting his complaint within five (5) working days.
5.02	First Stage • The employees with their accredited representative shall have the right to discuss at a suitable time, any written grievance signed by the employee stating the article/clause that has been violated with the immediate supervisor of the department within one (1) month of the alleged infraction. This meeting shall be held within three (3) working days of the time at which the grievance is submitted. The supervisor shall give his Mitten reply within two (2) working days, exclusive of weekends and paid plant holidays.
5.03	Final Stage • Within two (2) working days following receipt of the written response to the fiat stage. The final stage grievance shall be attended by the appropriate Chief Steward and Company Representative. If the issue is still unresolved five (5) working days after this final stage meeting, the party desiring Arbitration shall notify the other party in writing. It is agreed that a single Arbitrator would be used for the purpose of resolving differences between the two parties provided that there is mutual consent to this approach. Sole Arbitrators will be selected from the designated list of Arbitrators. The time limits will hold except where the parties jointly agree to an extension
5.04	The Arbitrator shall not have the right to alter or change any provision of this Agreement or substitute any new provisions in lieu thereof, or to give any decision inconsistent with the terms and provisions of this Agreement except as defined in Clause 5.05. Each of the parties hereto will equally bear the fees and expenses of the Arbitrator.
The decision of the Arbitrator shall be final and binding on both parties.
5.05	Where an Arbitrator determines that an employee has been discharged or otherwise disciplined by the Company for cause and the Collective Agreement does not contain a specific penalty forthe infraction that is the subject of matter of the arbitration, the Arbitrator may substitute such other penalty forthe discharge or discipline as to the Arbitratorseems just and reasonable in all the circumstances.
5.06	it is further agreed that the Union Business Agent and the Company shall have the right to originate a grievance at a time not later than one month from the date of the alleged infraction with regard to any dispute in the interpretation or manner in which the contract is being complied with. The grievance shall specify the article in which the collective agreement is being violated.
5.07- The application of progressive discipline and all disciplinary procedures shall be administered in the presence of a Steward or a member of the bargaining unit whose function it will be to act as an observer.
Page 9
ARTICLE 6 ■ RUT.F.S APPLYING TO TERMINATION
6.01	The Company may discharge or dismiss any employee forgood Cause upon one (1) week's notice or one (!) week's pay in lieu of notice, except that the Company shall have the right to summary dismissal or discharge upon any of the following grounds or similar serious causes:
m Stealing, dishonesty, willful destruction of Company property or physical violence directed at other employees;
(m Drinking while on duty or being under the influence of liquor or non-prescription drugs while on duty;
(iii) Direct refusal to obey orders given by the proper party unless such ordersjeopardize life, health, or safety of the employee.
6.02	On any discharge case, the Company shall send the Union within one working day, a copy of the discharge notice, and such notice shall contain reasons for discharge.
6.03	Each employee who desires tc-terminate his employment must give the Company one (1) week's notice. If he fails to do so, he shall, upon complaint from ?he Company, be dealt with by the Union.
6.04	Any employee leaving the Company shall be furnished with a reference provided his work has been satisfactory.
ARTICLE 7 - ESTABLISHING SENIORITY
7.01	An updated seniority list shall be posted every six (6) months and verified by the Steward.
7.02	There shalt be three (3)craft groups forthe purpose of differentiation in the matter of seniority.
GROUP 1 - As listed in Wage Appendix "A", "D" & "E" GROUP 2 - As listed in Wage Appendix "B"
GROUP 3 - As listed in Wage Appendix "C"
7.03. Discharge or resignation of any employee shall constitute a break in service. His seniority shall start anew on re-employment.
7.04	Where an employee having three (3) years of service witn a Company having contractual relations with this Union is elected or appointed for a tern of office with the aforesaid Union, his seniority shall be protected.
7.05	Where an employee has been transferred or promoted to a position outside the bargaining unit, he shall lose his seniority at the time of transfer.
Page 10
7.06	Relief staff hired into probationary positions, will be granted seniority on a prorated basis for service accumulated from January 1st of the year in which they were hired, upon completion of their probationary period.
■ARTICLE 8 - PROBATIONARY EMPLOYEES
8.01	New employees shall be considered probationary employees until sixty (60) days or 480 hours have been worked from date of hiring. After sixty (60) days or 480 hours have been worked such employees shall be given seniority credit back to the date of hiring.
8.02	A probationary employee shall be entitled to all provisions of this Collective Agreement except:
(a)	A probationary employee shall not exercise job bidding rights 2s specified in Article 13	'
(b)	A probationary employee will noLparticipate inrihe-Welfare Plan as specified in this Agreement (Appendix G).
ARTICLE 9 - HIRING OF RELIEF STAFF
9.01	Relief staff may be hired during the summer vacation period (June 1 to Sept. 15), Christmas holidays, March break, S.7.D., W.C.B and on Saturdays throughout the yea:. It is understood that qualified recall employees, selected from the Company's recall list, will be given preference over relief staff and such employees will be, if required, utilized on a person to person replacement. They may also be hired at other times subject to the following:
(a)	The Steward will be notified prior to the calling in of Relief Staff at times other tnan those identified above.
(b)	Relief staff will not be used to deny an overtime opportunity to a regular employee on his day off, other than Saturdays or as provided in Article 9.01
(c)	Christmas holidays shall be defined as the last two (2)weeks of December.
This period will be designated as an overload situation. This period, only, supersedes 9.01.
(d)	In the event of an overtime/overload work situation involving employees in Appendices "A", "B", "C", "D" and "E"the following procedure shall be applied:
i) The employee performing the job
jj) The senior qualified and capable employee who is at work and available in the department whose regularly scheduled shift ends exactly when the overtime opportunity is available,
iii)	The senior qualified and capable employee who is at work and available in the depanment whose regularly scheduled shift has ended within one (I) hour of the start time of the overtime opportunity.
iv)	The senior qualified and capable employee who is at work and available in the department whose regularly scheduled shift will end within one (I) hour of the start time of the overtime opportunity.
Page 11
v)	The senior qualified and capable employee in the classification in which the overtime opportunity arises not on site within the department.
Employees brought in under this sub-section will be guaranteed a minimum of:-
a)	three (3) hours attime and one-half (1 1/2x) and one (l)hourat doubletime (2x) if called in for part of an eight (8) hour shift or
b)	three (3) hours attime and one-half (1 1/2x) and two (2)hours at double time (2x) if called in for part of an ten (10) hour shift
Ifhe/she works beyond four (4)or five (5) hours, he/she will be guaranteed four (4) or five (5) additional hours pay at the rate of double (2x) time.
vi)	The senior qualified and capable employee not on site within the department. Employees brought in under this subsection will be guaranteed a minimum of:-
a)	three (3) hours attime and one-half (11/2x) and one f/jhour at double time (2x) if called in for part of an eight (8) hour shift or
b)	three (3) hours attime and one-half (1 1/2x) and two (2)hoursat double time (2x) if called in for part of an.ten (10) hour shift.
If he/she works beyond four (4Jor five (5) hours, he/she will be guaranteed four (4) or five (5) additional hours pay at the rate of double (2x) time.
vii)	Overtime opportunities at any location covered by this agreement shall be restricted to employees who are regularly employed at the location where the overtime is being offered.
vii!) Relief Staff
In the event an Appendix "A" employee is unable to report to his assigned shift and must be replaced, the opportunity to perform the overtime work will be offered for a period of up to four (4)or five (5) hours as per the above seven step procedure.
It is agreed that a relief employee may be called in for the final portion of the shift or any portion of the first four (4) hours declined by the regular employee.
This procedure presumes that regular staff are at work and available for overtime. Should this not be the case, a Relief employee may be called in to work the first portion of the assigned shift and the remaining portion shall be treated as an overtime opportunity for the appropriate regular staff subject to the requirements outlined above, it is agreed that if the appropriate regular staff called declines the overtime opportunity, the Relief employee may work the entire shift
Page 12
9.02	Relief staff shall be entitled to all provisions of this Collective Agreement, except as specifically dealt with in this Agreement, and subject to the following:
(a)	Relief staff shall be required to serve a sixty (60) day or 480 hours probationary period. Following this period relief staff shall have access to the grievance procedure concerning any alleged violation of this Agreement except a termination based on lack of work
(b)	A relief employee shall not be allowed to accumulate seniority.
(c)	A relief employee shall not exercisejob bidding riqhts.
(d)	Relief staff cannot dispute their number of hours of work There is no guarantee of full days, weeks, of seasons of work
9.03	When an employee at any location covered by-this agreement is absent from work for any reason the temporary vacancy created.shall.be filled by the following selection process
a)	Utility employees
b)	Spare employees
c)	Qualified recall employees selected from the Company's lay-off list in sequence and assigned to such temporary vacancies.
d)	Relief employees in that order.
9.04	Relief staff shall receive a probationary rate for the first sixty (60) days or four hundred and eighty (480) hours of their employment with the Company. If the probationary period is satisfied during their first calendar year, they shall be paid the rate for the job during employment in the second year and shall be paid for statutory holidays as specified by the Employment Standards Act of Ontario provided they work the assigned shift before and after the statutory holiday.
9.05	Relief staff will be required to buy safety boots upon hiring and will receive reimbursement as per Articles 22.06 upon completion of the probationary period.
9.06	Relief staffshall riot be entitled to any of the provisions outlined in Appendix "G" nor shall they be entitled to float days or lieu days.
9.07	Positions that are vacant for thirty nine (39) weeks will be posted. Article 11.01 will apply to employees returning after their absence which was in excess of thirty nine (39) weeks.
Page 13
ARTICLE 10 - LEAVE OF ABSENCE
10.01	In the event of sickness in an employee's family or for educational purposes, necessitating time off, leave of absence may be granted for a period of up to six (6)months by mutual agreement between the Company and the Union without loss of seniority. Leaves of absence requiring more than six (6) months will be considered, if justified.
10.02	Where definite proof b given of extreme necessity, this leave of absence may be extended by mutual agreement between the Union and the Company.
10.03	No employee shall be given leave of absence for the purpose of going into other
employment outside of the Company, except for full-time employment with the Union of Local 647. 1 is agreed that fringe benefits will be applied to those employees granted leaves of absence of up to thirty days. Leaves of absence exceeding the thirty day limit shall not quality for fringe benefit coverage.	.
ARTICLE 11 - LAY-OFFS AND RECALL
11.01	Re lay-off: In the event of a cutback in a job classification, the junior man in that classification would be the one moved out of the job. He, in turn, would have the right to Dump ?he most junior man in the department out of his job. The most junior man in the department, if he had seniority, would have the right to bump out the mostjunior man in the craft group. The intent is that the mostjunior man in the craft group is the one to be displaced. If that employee possesses the qualifications required, he may be permitted to bump the mostjunior employee in one of the other craft groups.
11.02	The Company shall, in the event it is necessary to lay-off permanent employees (not applicable to probationary employees), give to said employee or employees, five (5) days notice of impending lay-off or five (5) days pay in lieu of notice unless prevented from doing so forthe reasons outlined in Part 1A, Section 6B, Subsection 3(D) of the Employment Standards Act.
11.03	If an employee is terminated while on lay-off, notice of pay in lieu of notice requirements as specified by the Employment Standards Act shall apply.
11.04	Recall of employees on lay-off shall be carried out in order of seniority. Only one recall list shall be maintained regardless of craft group affiliation and employees comprising that list shall be recalled in terms of seniority. Provided he has the qualifications, the most senior man shall be the first to be recalled to a permanent position.
An employee recalled to a craft group other than his own, shall be entitled to be transferred back to his own craft group should a vacancy arise, in this event, he will be replaced by the next meet senior man on the recall list, assuming the qualification requirements are met.
Employees on lay-off will be recalled to temporary work in order of seniority. If such employees work thirty-two (32)hours or more, welfare provisions as outlined in Appendix "G" will be applied forthe period, Qualified employees on the Company's recall list shall have precedence over relief staff for recall to temporary job situation.
Page 14
ARTICLE 12 - RE-EMPLOVMENT T.TffT
12.0; All employees laid-off through no fault of their own by the Company shall be placed on the seniority list for re-employment for one (1) year. All employees rehired within one (1) year from the date of lay-off shall be given continued seniority for the total period employed, subject to their ability to perform the job requirements.
ARTICLE 13 - BIDDING FOR VACANT POSITIONS
13.01. All bids are to be made in writing on the appropriate form in duplicate, one copy to Management and one copy to the Steward. Senior employees will have the first opportunity of fdling such vacancy providing they have the necessary qualifications.
t
13.02	All job postings shall hata the time posted and the dosing time for bids on the notice. Such postings shall remain on the notice boards for all departments for a period of three working days which shall exclude Sunday: No employee's bid will be accepted after the closing time stated on the job posting. All permanent vacancies and all new positions are to be posted within 21 days. Bids for the position of lead hand in Wage Appendix "C" shall be restricted to garage employees who are Class "A" Mechanics
13.03	All job postings will be plant wide. Successful bidders will be notified within two days of the closing date of the job posting. Necessary qualifications, including notice of medical examination, will be posted with alljob postings. Where e medical examination is requested the procedure set out in letter of understanding #1 shall be followed.
13.04	Employees prior to going on vacation must submit to their Steward a bid specifying the job they wish to bid on while they are absent on vacation.
13.05	Up to three job postings per week will be put up across the bargaining unit. Regular employees shall be allowed to bid on the completion of the probationary period. A permanent employee who is successful in his bid shall forfeit his bidding rights for twelve months from date of acceptance.
13.06	No vacancy occurring in connection with a lay-off where a junior man is concerned, who is to be replaced by a senior employee, shall Se subject to bid.
13.07	Any employee refusing to accept an award after bidding shall lose his bidding rights for twelve months. All job vacancies posted for bid must be filled. If not filled through the bidding procedure, the most senior employee who has no permanent job assignment will be allocated to !he position.
13.08	In the event the company has employees on the re-employment lists and the bidding procedure has beer, adhered io and vacancies have been created, then the following shall apply. The senior employee on ?he re-employment list may have the first (1st) opportunity of filling such vacancy providing he has the qualification.
Page 15
13.09	(a) After an employee has been awarded a position through the bidding procedure, said employee is to be placed in the awarded position within a period of fourteen (14) days. It is understood that if the employee cannot be placed on the awarded position within fourteen (14) days, the Union and the Company and employee shall meet to discuss the matter,
(b)	Starting on the first day in the awarded position the employee shall begin the training period set out in Letter cf Understanding #2. Successful completion of the training period will be followed by a ten (10) day trial period.
(c)	If atany time during the training and/or trial period an employee proves to be unsuccessful the employee will be returned to his former job and shall lose his bidding rights fortwelve (12) months
1
(d)	Utility, Spare, qualified Recall*employees from the Company's recall list or Relief employees ,!n that order, will be utilized to fill the employees former job during the training and trial period.
(e)	Employees bidding or bumping into another department after the vacation schedules are set will have to accept whatever vacation time is available.
13.10	A total of three (3) jobs will be designated as unbid disability]obs at Halton Hills. Candidates for unbid jobs must substantiate their bids with medical documentation and will only hold the unbid jobs for as long as the medical condition continues.'
13.11	Job bidding rights are to be restored in the event of job redundancies.
13.12	Employees who have requested and received the Dairyman's .Training Course, to enable them to perform a job, will not bid off that job foi a period of two years.
ARTICLE 14 -DAYS AND HOURS OF WORK
14.01	Five (5) days shall constitute a working week for all employees except as otherwise specified. For those working an eight (8) hour day, hours worked in excess of eight (8) hours per day or forty (40) hours per week shall be paid overtime premiums as follows:-
a)	From eight (8) to eleven (11) hours at time and one-half (H/2x)ofthe appropriate rate and
b)	All hours worked in excess of eleven (11) hours per day shall be paid at double (2x) time
For employees working the ten (10) hour day, overtime premiums shall be:-
(c)	Fran ten (10) hours to thirteen (13)hours at time and one-half (11/2x)
(d)	All hours in excess of thirteen (13) hours at double time (2x).
Page 16
14.02	a) Five (5) days of eight (8) hours and/or four (4Jdays of ten (10) hours, shall constitute a working week for specified employees. It is agreed that no employee shall be asked to work his day off except in the case of an emergency, epidemic or sickness, in which case he will be paid:-
i)	Time and one-half (lillx) forthe first (1st)three (3)hours and
ii)	Double (2x) time for all hours in excess of three (3) hours.
Employees will be guaranteed eight (8) hours if called in on their regular day off.
(b) Five (5) days of eight (8) hours alternating with four (4) days of ten (10) hours shall constitute a working week for those employees so designated. If an employee is working the five (5) days of eight (8) hours schedule, paragraph 14.02(a) applies with respect to working on his day off. An employee who is working the four (4)days at ten (10) hours schedule and is called in on his day off shall be paid:-
i)	Time and one-half (1 1/2x) forthe fiistthree (3)hours and
ii)	Double time (2x) forail hours in excess of three (3)hours.
14.03	The opportunity to perform overtime work shall be given according to the procedures outlined in Article 9.01 (cf).
14.04	It is agreed that every effort will be made to have the work completed voluntarily in order cf seniority of the personnel on shift. Under no circumstances will the Company be forced to shut down a machine or machines for lack of an operator or operators, This principle would apply to all departments of the Company.
14.05	Four (4) hours notice will be given if an employee is required to work overtime or his day off, except where the conditions that cause the overtime or the work on the day off are not known to the Company four (4) hours in advance. Where the Company fails to give the required notice, such work will be on a voluntary basis.
14.06	Where inside plant employees work on Tuesday or Wednesday, all plant employees shall have the opportunity on request to share in the available work and thereby also share in the resulting week-ends off. A four (4Jweek master schedule, designating Tuesday or Wednesday as the down day will be posted forthe production and shipping departments.
14.07	The Company agrees to continue the present practice with respect to "Saturdays off as it relates to the Production and Storage areas.
14.08	(a) All employees who work on Sunday as a regular day of work shall be guaranteed a minimum cf eight (8) hours work which shall be paid at the rate cf time and one-half
(1 1/2X). Hours worked in excess eight (8) hours (10) hours on Sunday shall be paid at double time (2x).
(b) The regular work week in shipping shall start on Sunday at six (6) p.m. (or later) arid finish Friday a.m. Shipping employees who start at six (6) p.m. or later shall be paid at their regular rate cf pay and article 14,08 (a)shall not apply.
Page 17
14.09	If a greater number of hours on a shift starting on Saturday are worked on a Sunday, then all hours worked on Sunday are to .be paid at time and one-half (1 1/2x).
14.10	(a) All employees called back to work after leaving the premises on the completion of a regular eight (8) or ten (10) hour shift shall be guaranteed a minimum of four (4) or five (5) hours work at the rate of time and one-half (1 1/2x) of the employee's regular hourly rate.
b) If an employee is required to start work before the start of his/her regularly scheduled shift, he/she irust work all hours of his/her regular shift to be eligible to be paid the appropriate overtime premium for the work performed prior to his/her regular work
14.11	If an employee is required to report back to work within ten (10) hours of finishing a regular shift, he will be guaranteed a minimum of eight (8) or ten (10) hours of work, four (4) or five (S)hours of which will be a! time and one-half (1 1/2x) and four (4) or five (5) hours of which will be at double time (2>Q. It is agreed that an employee will be allowed to leave at the completion of eight (8) or ten (10) hours. If the Company 'equests the employee to continue working, he will continue at the rate of double (2x) time.. If, however, the employee asks to stay beyond the eight (8) or ten (10) hours,, and there is work available, he will do so at his regular rate.
14.12	Maintenance and Garage Mechanics shall have their scheduled days off and starting time posted two (2)weeks in advance.
14.13	It is agreed that no employee covered by this Agreement shall be asked to work more than two (2) consecutive off days except in the case of extreme emergency.
14.14	It is further agreed one (1) week's notice and explanation shall be given to the Steward as well as the employees in the department involved for any change in starting time of any inside employees except in the case of emergency. This rule is not applicable to Relief staff during vacation/holiday periods.
14.15	Absenteeism without cause and/or without notification to the Company shall be construed as an abuse of this Agreement. Proven abuse by any employee may result in dismissal or suspension by the Company, or suspension by the Union.
14.15	All plant employees shall be entitled to an on-premises rest period to be authorized by management of 15 minutes, morning and afternoon, but shall not occur sooner ?han one and one half hours from the beginning of each half shift. Lunch periods shall not be within three hours of starting or after 5 hours worked on the eight hour shift and not within 4 hours of starting or after 6 hours worked on the ten hour shift
14.17 If an employee is scheduled to work two (2)or more hours overtime, he shall receive a fifteen (15) minute on-premises break at the completion of his regular shift and will receive additional fifteen(l 5) minute on-premises break periods before each succeeding two (2) hours overtime, provided additional overtime has to be worked. If an employee is required io work more than one (1) hour overtime, he will either receive a fifteen (15) minute on-premises break before starting or Cb paid for fifteen (15) minutes.
•K.-t8 if an employee is required to work in excess of two (2) hours of overtime beyond his regular shift, he will be paid a meal allowance of six dollars and fifty cents ($6.50) or he will take the meal being provided.
Page 18
14.19	Under no condition is time off to be given in lieu of overtime pay.
14.20	In the event an employee has reported for work, and as a result of an accident which occurs on the job or Company premises, is required to lose time from the job, the employee shall receive his regular pay for the day on which the accident occurred.
14.21	It s expected that an employee will be available to work his regularly scheduled hours. If in the event an employee is absent in the week he has worked his scheduled day off and it is the third such occurrence in a rolling twelve (12) month period, the following procedure will apply:
a)	Work performed on a regular scheduled day off will be paid as straight time for all regular hours worked eight (SJorten (10)] as applicable. If the employee was required to work overtime on that day, subsequent hours worked will be computed at overtime rates of pay applicable for a regularly scheduled shift.
b)	in the event this clause is invoked, it will supersede Article 14.02
ARTICLE 15-VACATIONS
15.01	It is agreed that employees in the service of the Company fora period of one (l)year shall receive two (2) weeks vacation with pay annually. Employees shall be eligible for vacation after having worked for a period of six (6) months and less than one (1) year as of July 1st on the basis of one-half (1/2) day for each month employed.
15.02	Employees with continuous service with the Company for a period of five (5) years shall receive three (3)weeks vacation with pay.
15.03	Employees with continuous service with the Company for a period of ten (10) years shall receive four (4) weeks vacation with pay.
15.04	Employees with continuous service with the Company for a period of eighteen (18) years shall receive five (5) weeks vacation with pay. Employees with continuous service with the Company of twenty eight (28) years shall receive six (6) weeks vacation with pay, Service is computed to June 30 in the year in which the vacation is to be taken.
15.05	New employees who are not entitled to vacations as of July lstwill receive vacation pay for the period of employmen?to June 30th in accordance with the Employment Standards Ad.
15.05	The choice of vacation period will be given to the employees according to seniority. The Company agrees to make every attempt to provide three (3) weeks vacation during prime time (June 1 - Sept. 15) for inside workers.
15.07	For the purpose of determining vacation the year shall be considered as the first of July of any calendar year; that is an employee would have to be employed for six (6) months previous to July 1st in order to he eligible for vacation in that year. Employees must take vacation earned during vacation year before April 30 of the year following the vacation year in which it was earned. The vacation lists shall be posted not later than April 1st.
Page 19
15.08	Employees must declare their full holiday schedule, Including float day entitlement by the 15th of March. Otherwise, seniority rights are revoked. Changes to the schedule after March 15 will be handled on a first-come, time available basis. Vacation has priority over float or lieu days in booking for vacation time off
15.09	For each week of vacation entitlement, vacation pay will be computed on the basis of two (2) percent of previous year's earnings as per T4 slip less taxable benefits and allowances and less sick pay/or regular rate, whichever is greater.
15.10, Any employee voluntarily terminating his/her employment with the Company or being pensioned off or laid-off, who is entitled to one (1), two (2), three (3), four (4), five (5) or six (6) weeks vacation, depending on his length of service, shall receive vacation pay at the rate of two (2), four (4), six (6), eight (8), ten (10), ortwelve (12) percent of his earnings as the case may be, for the period worked since the previous July 1st, Any employee not entitled to the above will be paid in accordance with the Employment Standards Act
15.11	Vacation pay shall be paid by separate cheque to all regular employees.
15.12	Production and Storage personnel will have a minimum of eight (8) employees off during the summer and Christmas vacation periods.
ARTICLE 16 - STATUTORY HOLIDAYS
16.01	It is agreed that New Year's Day, Good Friday, Victoria Day, Canada Day, Civic Holiday Labour Day, Thanksgiving Day, Christmas Day, Boxing Day, plus four floating holidays to be given at a time mutually agreed to by the employee and the Company shall be recognized as statutory holidays and shall be appreciated as days offimth full pay. Should any employee be required to work on a statutory holiday as stated above, said employee is to be notified one week in advance of the statutory holiday, except in the case of sickness or emergency and he shall receive two times his regular rate plus his holiday pay or a paid day in lieu. The foregoing choice shall be the Employee's. However, if the employee chooses the day in lieu with pay, he must notify the Company within a period of three days of the holiday. Heritage Day to be included as a statutory holiday if declared by the Federal Government.
The four floating holidays, added to the nine statutory holidays, provides a total of thirteen paid holidays per year.
16.02	Employees off on extended illness will receive top-up pay for the statutory holiday providing the employee has performed some work for the Company in the three months prior to the holiday. This provision does not apply to employees receiving WCB benefits nor to those actively employed. Active employees must report forwork on their assigned shifts before and after the statutory holiday in order to be paid.
16.03	The Company may reschedule the day off in the week in which Boxing Day or New Yearis Day falls, with the understanding that it will not Se rescheduled to fall on a statutory holiday.
16.04	Should any statutory holiday occur during the employee's vacation or day off, the employee shall have the choice of an extra day's pay or day in lieu with pay but this choice must be made at vacation scheduling time.
Page 20
16.05	Outstanding days in lieu shall be posted by November 15 showing the dates during which these days should be taken. Employees shall give the Company the dates they desire and department seniority will be the deciding factor. Such dates, once issued, shall not be changed unless by sickness or an emergency. Employees who have not taken days in lieu by April 30th each year shall be paid, in the case of hourly rated employees, eight hours of pay at the regular hourly rate for each day owing. For employees working the alternating 8 and 10 hour shifts, lieu days will be paid at the rate equal to 10 hours
16.06	Employee requests for lieu days off will be granted provided that:
(a) The employee gives 30 days notice.
(5) lieu days will be given on a first come, first served basis and the Company will maintain control over the number of people granted the same day off.
(C) Should circumstances change, the lieu day otherwise 'agreed to may be changed, but only by mutual consent.
d) If an employee requests a lieu day without 30 days notice, the Company will grant the request provided it can do so.
ARTICLE 17 - UNIFORMS fPLANTl
17.01	This provision does not apply to relief staff who will be issued clothing 2s appropriate. Uniforms will be issued according to size required by employee.
17.02	Three (3) uniform sets, [three (3) pants and three (3)shirts] will be issued at the start of permanent employment. One (1) parka will be issued where required. These will be personally monogrammed for each employee. The uniforms shall be returned for replacement when worn out. Such replacement mast be pre-authorised by the department manager.
17.03	Appropriate coveralls for storage personnel will also be stocked, based on the formula in Clause 17.02.
17.04	Daily laundry hours will be from 6:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. so as to be convenient for all employees to obtain their uniforms. These hours will Se posted and respected by each employee.
17.05	It was agreed that the Company would provide an insulated vest where applicable and to supply a coat where necessary.
17.06	Loaders and storage personnel shall be supplied with waterproof gloves. Issuance of same will be under the supervision of the Department Manager.
Page 21
ARTin.F. 18 -HARA^F MATNTFNANrF R RFFRIC.F.R ATTDN UNIFORMS
18.01	Garage mechanics and mechanics helpers, maintenance men and refrigeration mechanics shall be supplied with coveralls and safety boots as per clause 22.05. Issuance of same shall be under the supervision of departmental management. Acid gloves for the handling of batteries will be supplied. In addition to the supplies outlined above, thermal clothing, to include thermal coveralls, gloves and safety boots suitable for winter work will be provided where required for outside work
18.02	Service mechanics shall be supplied with a heavy coat, gloves and raincoat while on service calls.
18.03	The Company will supply three (3) sets of rainwear to be available for use by employees in the Garage Department.
ARTICI F. 19 RIII.FS AFFF.CTINr. TRUCK .lOrKF.VS & r.ARAT.F F.MPI.OYFF.S
19.01	(a) Where an employee whose normal duties include the operation of the Company's vehicles has his Class "A" license revoked, the employee will be allowed to work in a long term vacant position in the plant that is being filled by Relief staff for a period up to thirty nine (39) weeks. It is understood such employees while operating in a Relief capacity will have their terms and conditions of employment governed by the terms and condition of the Relief provisions of the Collective Agreement with the exception of Bidding rights and benefits. The employee must bid onto a job at the earliest posting opportunity. If the employee does not have a bid, he will only be able to fill in for long term absences until such time as his bid is returned to him, he will not be placed.
b) 'In the alternative, where an employee whose normal duties include the operation of the Company's vehicles, has had his Class "A" license revoked, he will be permitted to take a leave of absence. This leave of absence shall be limited to the length of the license ;evocation or one (I) year, whichever is the lesser The resulting vacancy will be filled with a relief driver for the entire duration of the drivers absence
When the drivers license is reinstated, he shall not be returned to his regularjob until he has been retested and approved by the Company's Driver Trainer.
19.02	A Driver involved in an accident has the option of representing himself to the Safe Driving Committee along with his written report.
13.03	Truck Jockeys agree to cooperate in the operation of the truck wash and will be responsible for keeping the inside of the cab clean and tidy. This will be done on Company tine;
Page 22
ARTICLE 20 - SAFETY
20.01	a) It is to the mutual advantage of both the Company and the employees that employees shall not operate vehicles which are not in a safe operating condition and not equipped with the safety appliances required by law. It shall be the driver's responsibility to perform pre-trip and post-trip inspections of vehicles and emergency equipment daily. Any and all defects found during these inspections or during the daily operation of his vehicle shall be reported promptly, in writing, to the Company. It shall be the duty of the Company to maintain all vehicles in safe operating condition in accordance with the Ministry of Transport and Communication regulations.
b) The maintenance of equipment in sound operating condition is not only a function but a responsibility of Management. The determination of, as well as the responsibility for, all decisions in respect to the condition of the equipment shall rest with the senior qualified supervisor on the premises. The Company shall not require employees to take out on the streets or highways any vehicle that is not-in safe operating condition. It shall be a violation of this Agreement if an employee refuses to.operate equipment unless the equipment is proven to be in an unsafe condition.
20.02	All employees are required to wear or use the safety equipment provided by the Company for their protection.
20.03	The Health and Safety Committee will hold regular meetings at least bi-monthly and during the regular business hours.
20.04	A limit of six (6) cases high will be observed on both trucks and customer locations excepting for the twenty (20) litre cases which will be limited to five (5) high.
20.05	Where an employee can establish that the wearing of a piece of safety equipment is detrimental to his health, the Company will investigate a suitable substitute. All employees must wear at all times the uniform and safety equipment supplied by the Company.
20.05	The Company will pay up to seventy-six (576.00) dollars for safety footwear. Old boots are to be turned in and any additional pairs of boots required in any calendar year must be authorized by the Department Manager. Probationary employees will be required to purchase the first pair of safety boots and will be reimbursed as per above cn completion of probationary period.
20.07	When job conditions require special attire for safety or substantiated health reasons, it will be provided,
Page 23
ARTICLE 21 - SOCIAL WELFARE BENEFITS
21.01	PENSION PLAN
a)	Effective the Monday following the date of ratification the Company agrees to pay to the Milk Drivers and Dairy Employees Pension Plan, the sum of twenty-two ($22.00)dollars per week for all employees covered by this Agreement who have been in the employment of the Company for one (1) year.
Effective January 1,1994, Company's portion shall be increased to twenty-four ($24.00) dollars per week.
Effective January I19J5, the Company's portion shall be increased to twenty-six ($26.00) dollars per week.
Union members hired who are covered by the Pension Plan shall be entitled to payment by the Company from the date of hiring.
b)	Effective the Monday following the date of ratification' each employee entitled to pension payment by the Company under this Agreement shall pay to the Milk Drivers and Dairy Employees Pension Plan the sum of twenty-two ($22.00)dollars per week by means of a payroll deduction.
Effective Jan. I d994 the employee's payment will increase to twenty-four ($24.00)dollars per week.
Effective Jan. 1,1995 the employee's payment will increase to twenty-six ($26.00) dollars per week
21.02	WELFARE PLAN
a)	All new permanent employees shall become part of the Welfare Plan at the completion of their probationary period of sixty (60) days or 480 hours worked. Employees on lay off or leave of absence shall not have welfare contributions remitted on their behalf until they return to work
b)	The company agrees to provide a Long Term Disability Program to commence in the fortieth (40th) week, For Plan description see Appendix "G".
21.03	a) On re-employment of a former employee, ortransfer from a participating company, welfare coverage will be effectivethe first day the employee starts his new employment, if this transfer or re-employment takes place within sixty (60) cays or 480 hours worked.
b)	On return from sickness, lay-offs or leave of absence, welfare coverage will also be effective from the day the employee starts his employmen:.
c)	The Company agrees lo pay the full premium for each week the employee has money coming to him while absent from work. The premium will then be paid by the Welfare Plan fora period of thirty-nine (39) weeks or for a time to be determined by the Trustees of the Welfare Plan.
Page 24
21.04	SICK PAY
The Company's sick pay plan became effective on January 1, 1965 on the following basis:
a)	ELIGIBILITY: Any employee who has'completed one (1) year's service
will participate. Employees with less than one (1) year's service will begin to participate in the month following the month in which they complete one (1) year's service.
b)	ACCUMULATION: Sick pay credits will accumulate at the rate of one-half (1/2) day for each month of active service for all eligible employees.
c)	WITHDRAWALS: There will be no draw against accrued days in the sick bank unless the employee has established a claim under the Weekly Indemnity Plan. This having been done, he will draw sick pay credits equivalent to the number of working days missed prior to the establishment of the'^laim, providing he has sufficient days banked.
d)	PAY-OUT: It i agreed that the Company will pay out any unused skk pay credits at the end of each calendar year., This payment will be made by December 15th of each year. An employee may elect to accumulate sick pay credits to a maximum of two (2) years,
A five percent (5%) premium shall be added to the pay-out
ARTICLE 22 - SALE OR ACQUISITION
22,01	The Company undertakes to notify the Union of the acquisition by it of any daines or the sale by it to other dairies of any part of its business not later than the effective date of such acquisition or sale.
ARTICLE 23 - DOCK PICK-UPS
23.01	The Company undertakes to advise the Union of any expansion of this volume of business and the reasons for such and the Union will discuss and cooperate forthe protection of the business.
ARTICLE 24 - SUPERVISORS
24.01	No person who is excluded from the bargaining unit will be allowed to perform duties of an employee in the bargaining unit unless agreed to by the shop steward.
ARTICLE 25 -SEVERANCE PAY
25.01	In the event of technological changes and/or ?he acquisition of other daines, the Company agrees to notify the Union of any lay-off due to automation two (2) months in advance of such lay-off, and further to give the employees affected, sixty (60) working days notice of the impending lay-off.
25.02	In connedion with a lay-offdue to the acquisition of other dairies, the acquiring company will give thirty (30) working days notice to any employees who may be laid off.
Page 25
25.03	Severance pay to those employees with one (1) year or more of service who are laid-off whether due to automation or acquisition shall be paid at the rate of one (1) week per year of service for service of less than ten (10) years, one and one-half (1,1/2) Weeks per year of service for service of less than twenty (20) years and two (2jweeks per year ?orthose years in excess of twenty (20) years of service.
Payments made as per this formula will be pro-rated for partial years of service.
ARTICLE 26 - GENERAL NOTES
26.01	This Agreement shall not take from the employees any privileges they have hitherto enjoyed, except as are specifically dealt with in this Agreement.
25.02	Any employees receiving at the present time, more than the attached Schedule sets forth, shall suffer no reduction in pay.
26.03	No employee shall be asked or permitted to make any verbal or written agreement which may conflict with this Agreement.
26.04	Employees are not permitted to engage in any other major occupation or business during the course of their employment.
25.05	a) In view of the orderly procedure established by this Agreement for settling disputes and the handling of grievances, the Union agrees that there shall not be any strike or picketing during the life of this Agreement.
b)	The Company agrees that there shall be no lock-outs during the life of this Agreement.
c)	It shall not be considered a violation of this agreement for employees not to ship products to non-Union carriers delivering to a place where a lock-out, strike or picket line exists.
' d) it is agreed that the participation of any employee in any such controversy shall no! interfere with his regular duties with the Company.
26.06	The Company agrees that in the event of the dairy having contractual relations with the Milk and Bread Drivers and Dairy Employees, Caterers and Allied Employees Local Union 647, is taken over, the employees of the dairy shall be given credit for the seniority rating they enjoyed with the former Company for the purpose of determining seniority in the group as a whole.
26.07	It is also agreed that the Wage Summary outlined in Appendices "A", "B", "C", "D" and "E* are recognized as part of this Agreement.
Page 26
26.08	BEREAVEMENT
In the event of a death in the immediate family of an employee covered by this agreement, the Company agrees to grant the necessary time off without loss of pay up to four days. In the event of a death in the non-immediate family of an employee covered by this agreement, the Company agrees to grant the necessary time off without loss of pay up to one day.
Immediate family shall be comprised of father, mother, spouse (including common-law), children, brother, sister, maternal and/or paternal grandparents.
Non-immediate family shall be comprised of father-in-law, mother-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, spouse's grandparents, ex-spouse, and nieces and nephews directly related to employee.
26.09	Where it is necessary for any employee to be absent from work on Union business, the Company agrees to release such employee forthe time necessary at the request of the Union, at no expense to the Company.
26.10	JURY DUN . Where an employee is called forjury duty or as witness, he shall be paid his full pay by the Company. Such employee will give his jury pay or witness cheque to the Company in return. •
26.11	Machine operators will not perform repairs to a machine of a major nature normally performed by members of the Maintenance Department.
2G.12 All warning letters pertaining to misconduct shall remain on file until a period of twelve (12) months free of related incidents has elapsed.
26.13	Management shall retain all rights and privileges of operating its business that are traditional to the operation of an on-going business.
25.14	Union dues will be included on the T4 slips.
25.15	The Company agrees to the printing, in booklet form, ofthe Collective Agreement.
26.15	?he Company undertakes to rotate employees in the utility classification.
ARTICLE 27 - EXPIRATION AND RENEWAL OF AGREEMENT
27.01 This Agreement shall become effective as of January 1,1993 and shall continue in force and effect until December 31,1995 and yearly thereafter unless not less than thirty (30)
days and not more than ninety (90J days prior to the termination date written notice of termination or of amendments shall be given by either the local Union orthe Company, one to the other, by registered mail, notice of its demands and proposals or amendments to the Agreement. Such notice shall be addressed to the Company at the Company’s place of business and to the Union at 7 Hafis Road, Toronto, Ontario, M6M 2V6.
IN WITNESS THEREOF, the parties hereto mentioned have executed this Agreement the day and the year fist above written.
Page 28
WAGES (GENERAL)
Year one /1) Lump Sum Payment of One Thousand Dollars ($1,000:00)
Year two (2\ Lump Sum Payment of Four Hundred dollars ($400:00) payable by seperate cheque on the first pay day in January 1994.
Lump Sum Payments will be prorated forall employees - fulltime, recall and relief— with less than Two Thousand Eighty (2080) regular hours worked in the preceding calendar year. E.G Year one to be prorated on regular hours worked in 1992. Year two to be prorated on regular Hours worked in 1993.
Yearthree 131 A two percent j2%) increase applicable to all Wage Appendices. For full time and recall employees the increase will be calculated on the pay rates in effect on December 31, 1992. For relief employees the increase will be calculated on the rate of fifteen dollars ($15) per hour.
WAGF. APPENDIX "A"
[PLANTWAGES]
	Effective .	Effective	Effective
	.1-.lsn.m	•i .Ian ■1904	1 Jan./95
CATEGORY 'A1			
Checker	S19.30	$19.30	S/9.S9
CATEGORY'S'			
Loader	513.01	$19.01	$19.39
CATEGORY - ~			
Utility Production Utility Storage Spare Production Spare Storage	$18.85	$18.86	$19.24
Process Helper/Milk Raw Milk Receiver	$18.69	$18.69	S19.06
Process Cultured Products Creamer Operator Stock Taker
Process Cultured Produets/CIP
7age 29
	Effective 1 Jan./93	Effective 1 Jan 1994	Effective 1 Jan./95
CATEGORY 'E Materials Handler Filler Op./Cultured Prod. Filler Operator CIP Cleaner Plant Cleaner Returns Receiver	S18.58	$18.58	$18.95
CATEGORY T Unrtirer Operator Line Clearer Order Picker Palletizer Fork Lift Operator Returns Dumper Culture Products Packer Cultured Products Palletizer	$18.39	$18.39	$18.76
CATEGORY 'G* Unbid	S18.11	S18.11	$18.76
CATEGORY *H' Relief	$15.00	$15.00	$15.30
CATEGORY 'J' Truckjockey	$19.49	$19.49	$19.88
A1] There shall be a shift premium of sixteen dollars and eighty cents (S16.80) per week paid to all plant employees other than caretakers and janitors. This shall apply to any regular weekly shifts starting from eleven (11:00) a.m. and before five (5:00) a.m. It is agreed that shift premiums shall be considered as part of the rate for purposes of computing overtime.
A2] Employees starting between the hours of twelve (12:00) midnight and four-thirty (4:30) a.m. shall not be asked to work more than eight (5) hours in any one (1) day.
A3] . No inside employee shall be asked to work a split shift (meaning two start times in one day). Different starting hours on different days during the week is not a split shift.
A4] It is agreed that any employee being required to act in the place of an inside employee for one (l)day, shall be paid the wage pertaining to said position if more than previously earned.
A5] There shall be a starting rate for probationary staff of thirty-five cents (.35) per hour less than the job rate for the first sixty (60) days or 480 hours worked, then the prevailing raie for the job concerned as outlined above shall apply.
Page 30
A6] Employees shall be provided with a five (5) minute period for washup preceding shift end provided the replacement personnel are available where appropriate.
A7] All Ex Drivers who have had developed for them a " Personal Wage Guarantee" shall continue to receive this guarantee as long as they remain in their present classification.
A8] The personal wage guarantee shall be discontinued only in the following circumstances:
a)	He voluntarily bids out of the job classification set out in paragraph 1.
b)	Branch, depot or plant closure.
c)	If he is laid-off or if his services are terminated
ITRADES WAGES!
Maint. Electrician Maint. Mechanic
Apprentice
WAGE APPENDIX "B"
Effective	Effective	Effective
1 Jan/93	1 Jan/94	1 Jan/95
$21.99	$21.99	$22.43
$21.22	$21.22	$21.54
(See C3 below)
31]	Tool allowance shall be paid at the rate of three hundred and twenty five dollars ($325.00) per year, in January of each year, to qualified mechanics, machinists and maintenance men, electricians, carpenters, and refrigeration mechanics. The Company agrees to supply special tools, tools with a drive of three quarter inch (3/4”) or more to replace womout Company tools.
32]	There shall be a shift premium of sixteen dollars and eighty cents ($16.80) per week. This shall apply to any regular weekly shifts starting from eleven (11:00) am. and before five (5:00) a.m. It is agreed that shift premiums shall be considered as part of the rate for purposes of computing overtime.
33]	Apprentices shall receive seventy percent (70%) of the posted rate in year one (1); eighty percent (80%)in year two (2); ninety percent (90%) in year three (3): and one hundred percent (100%) in year four (4).
Page 31
WAGE APPENDIX "C"
GARAGE WAGES	Effective 1 Jan./93	Effective 1 Jan 194	Effective 1 Jan./95
Mechanic	$21.00	$21.00	$21.42
Refrigeration Mechanic	$20.18	$21.18	$21.60
Mechanics Helper & Greaser	$18.39	$18.39	$18.76
Relief	$15.00	$15.00	$15.00
Apprentice	See C3 below		
Lead Hand	See C4 below		
C1] Standby pay, effective June 1,1981, shall be thirty-five dollars ($35.00) per week. It shall be paid only to those tradesmen designated for standby duty
C2] Tool allowance shall be paid at the rate of three hundred and twenty five dollars (5325,00) per year, in January of each year, to qualified mechanics, machinists and maintenance men, electricians, carpenters, and refrigeration mechanics.
C3] Apprentices shall receive seventy percent (70%) of the posted rale in year one (1); eignty percent (83%)in year two (2):ninety percent (90%) in year three (3) and one hundred percent (100%) in year four (4).
C4) The Lead Hand shall Se a Class "A" mechanic who will be paid fifty (50) cents per hour above the employee's regular rate.
-WAGE APPENDIX "D*1
TORONTO DEPOTWAGES	Effective 1 Jan,/91	Effective Uan/94	Effective 1 Jan./95
Utility Picker	$19.30	519.30	$19.69
Utility Storage	$19.30	$13.30	$19.69
Stocktaker	$18.69	$18.69	$19.05
Relief	$15.00	$15.00	$15.00
WAGE APPENDIX "E"
LONDON DEPOT WAGES	Effective 1 Jan./93	Effective 1 Jan/94	Effective 1 Janl95
Utility Warehouse	$19.30	$19.30	• $19.67
Relief Utility Warehouse	$16.00	$16.00	$16.32
	WAGE APPENDIX	"F" fCOLAl	
All employees covered by this agreement, except relief staff and probationary employees shall be entitled to a cost of living allowance (OOlA)based upon the CPI published by Stats Canada. This COLA has been included as part of this contract since Jan. 1,1975 and is paid on the second pay day of every third month. Payment b made via separate COLA cheque and the amount shall not form pari of an employee's applicable weekly or hourly rate as detailed in the wage appendices of this agreement. The COLA shall not be included in the calculation of any other form cf pay, allowance, or benefits except as is required by law. Continuation of the COLA formula shall be conditional upon the continued availability of the official CPI. If there is a decrease in CPI, the allowance shall be adjusted downward, but an employee's applicable hourly rate shall not Efe affected.
The procedures for calculating any increase under the COLA provision shall be zs toiiows: The CPI for March shall be compared to the CPI for ?he preceding December. The allowance shall Eb increased by 1 cent for each 0.5 point increase by which the March CPI exceeds the December CPI. This allowance shall be paid in July. The June CPI shall be compared to the March CPI and the allowance payable under the above formula shall be paid in September. The August CPI shall be compared to the June CPI and the allowance payable under the above formula shall be paid in January. The December CPI shall be compared to the August CPI and the allowance payable under ?he above formula shall be paid in April.
The COLA will not be triggered until the CPI reaches 6.0%. The current maximum payout is 51.25 per hour while the current payout Sands at $1,175 per hour as of January 1987.
APPENDIX "GM WELFARE PROVISIONS!
GENERAL /ISIOI
ELIGIBILITY • Eligible dependents include the employee's spouse, and unmarried children who are a dependent of the employee or his/her spouse, plus such children who are under age 25 and either a full-time student or totally disabled.
'EFFECTIVE DATE OF BENEFITS • All employees who have completed ar application card are covered on the sixty-first (61st) calendar day or 481st hour worked from the date of employment, or re-employment, if hired or rehired by an employer contributing to the Fund within sixty (60) days of the dale the previous employment terminated.
The dependents of said employees are covered on the date the employee is covered, or the date they become dependents, Whichever is later.
The application cad is available from the Employer, Union or Administrator, and must be submitted by the Employer when the new employee's name is added to the Monthly Contribution Report.
TERMINATION DATE OF BENEFITS - If employment terminates for any reason other than retirement, all benefits except Disability Income cease at the end of the month. Disability ' Income Benefits cease on the last dale employed.
W.C.B. - During the period in which the employee is in receipt of Workers Compensation and Is an employee of William Neilson Ltd., the Company shall provide at no cost io the employee Drug Plan (less those benefits covered first by Workers Compensation) and Hospitalization (less those benefits covered first by Workers Compensation).
EARLY RETIREMENT - Benefits coverage will be provided for employees taking the eariy retirement option available at age 60, up to age 65 for Prescriptions, Visioncare, Dental and Life Insurance ai the reduced retirement rate. (AD&D., S.T.D. and L.T.D. do not apply to retirees).
BENEFITS - The Company will pay the full costs of the benefits listed below for each employee covered by this Agreement who is a member of the Milk Drivers and Dairy Employees Welfare Plan. The benefits are listed below.
LIFE INSURANCE- (Employee Only) - The benefit is provided by a Group Term Life Insurance. Policy which provides that premium payments are waived, and full coverage remains in force, up to age sixty-five (65) in the even! of total and permanent disability occurring while insured and before age sixty-five (63). For retired employees, coverage will be five thousand dollars (£5,000.) io age seventy (70) and 'our thousand dollars ($4,000.) thereafter.
Employees whotermiriaie employment may convert to an individual life insurance policy, without evidence of good health, by making written application to the Insurer within thirty-one (31) days of the date employment terminates.
The amount of Life Insurance will be thirty thousand dollars ($30,000.00).
Pag; 34
ACCIDENTAL DEATH AND DISMEMBERMENT (Employee Only) This benefit provides the payment of a principal sum, or part thereof, for losses that occur within three hundred and sixty-five (365) days of a causative accident. In the case of loss of life,the benefit is payable to the employee's name beneficiary under the Life Insurance Benefrt; for other losses, the benefit is payable to the employee.
TAEUEOF BENEFITS;
FOR LOSS OF	AMOUNT
Life (in addition to Life Insurance) Both Eyes Both Hands Both Feet
One Hand and One Foot
One Hand and Sight of One Eye
One Foot and Sight cf One Eye
One Leg
One Arm
One Hand
Sight of One Eye
Both the Thumb and Index Finger
Principal Sum Principal Sum Principal Sum Principal Sum Principal Sum Principal Sum Principal Sum 3/4 Principal Sum 3/4 Principal Sum 1/2 Principal Sum 1/2 Principal Sum Hand	1/4 Principal Sum
The Principal Sum is the maximum payable tor all losses due to any one (1) accident. Nu benefits are payable for losses due to intentionally self-inflicted injuries, suicide, declared or undeclared war, full-time service in the Armed Forces, or while a crew member in an aircraft.
The Principal Sum will be twenty-six thousand dollars (326,000.)
SHORT TERM DISABILITY INCOME BENEFIT NON-OCCUPATIONAL DISABILITIES ONLY /EMPLOYEE ONLY1
Commencing on the first (1st) day cf examination by a physician fortotal disability due to an accident, or the fourth (4th) such day for illness, the Plan pays a Weekly Benefit up to the specified maximum benefit period. "Total Disability" means the employee's inability to perform each and every duty of his occupation. Disabilities due to pregnancy are limited to fifteen (15) weeks, unless there are complications. Disabilities separated by less than thirty (30) days of full-timework are considered one (1)disability, unless the subsequent disability is due to an unrelated cause and commences after the employee's return to work.
Benefits are not payable unless the disabled employee is losing wages on account of the disability. Therefore, benefits are not payable for periods of time during which there are no lost wages, such as vacation, leave of absence, etc.
Weekly benefit will be four hundred dollars [$400,00) and to an amount equal to the UIC -maximum. Maximum benefit period is thirty-nine (39) weeks.
It is understood that !he Company will bear the total cost of providing the above Sickness arid Accident Plan in lieu of the Unemployment Insurance Commission programme, therefore the premium credit including the employee's portion by the Unemployment Insurance Commission or any governmental source,shall be retained by the Company.
Page 35
SEMI-PRIVATE HOSPITAL BENEFIT - (Employee and Dependents) The plan pays the hospital's daily charge for.the difference in cost between a semi-private room and standard ward. Confinement for non-complicaled pregnancies is not covered if conception occurred before the employee was insured.
AMBULANCE BENEFIT - (Employee and Dependents) For necessary ground ambulance service, to or from a hospital, the Pian pays thirty dollars ($30.00) for each period of Disability (as defined under the Disability Income Pian). This amount is applicable to the deductible amount of OHIP's Ambulance Benefit, and does not duplicate in anyway the OHIP Ambulance Benefit.
SPECIAL ACCIDENT BENEFIT - (Employee and Dependents) The Plan allows up to three hundred dollars ($300.00) for certain services or supplies received within three (3) months of a causative accident that is noticovered by Worker's Compensation Board.
EL EXPENSES AINING T< SPECIAL ACCIDEN' BENEFIT )NL
1.	Hospital charges resulting from confinement
2.	Medical or surgical treatment or supplies
3.	Diagnostic services
4.	Services of a registered Nurse
5.	Dental X-ray, or examination
LONG TERM DISABILITY INCOME BENEFIT • (Employee Only) A Monthly Income Benefit of one thousand, eight hundred and fifty dollars ($1,850.00), effective the Monday following the DOR, will be paid to employees who are totally disabled, commencing with the exhaustion of the Short Term Disability Income Benefit provided herein. The employee will be regarded as "Totally Disabled" when the nature and degree of the disability is such that the employee cannot perform each and every duty cf any occupation for which he e reasonably suited, having regard for education, training and experience. The benefit is payable as long as the employee is "Totally Disabled", and ceases upon the earliest of death, recovery or attainment of age sixty-five (65). Benefits are not payable for a disability resulting from intentionally self-inflicted injuries, while sane or insane, riots, insurrections or any act of war, or the commission of, or an attempt to commit, any criminal act. If the disability results from mental or nervous illness, the monthly benefit otherwise payable shall be reduced by fifty percent (50%)during any period when the disabled employee is hospitalized.
If the disabled employee is in receipt of a benefit under the Worker's Compensation Act, on account of the same disability, the Monthly income Benefit otherwise payable under this Plan will be reduced, dollar for dollar, by any amounts payable under the Act.
If a disabled employee is in the "Grey" area between total disability and total recovery, and. attempts some form of "light work" under the supervision of his physician, his Long Term Disability Benefit will be reduced by sixty-six point six percent (56.6%) of income derived fromsuch rehabilitative employment for up to two (2)year$ of such employment. If the employee cannot continue the employment for health reasons, he goes back on his full Long Term Disability Benefit; if he is still so employed after two (2)years, his Long Term Disability 3enefit ceases since he is no longer regarded as "Totally Enabled.
During the period which an employee is in receipt of L.T.D. benefits, the Company shall provide, at no cost to the employee Drug Plan, Dental Plan, and Hospitalization coverages.
Page 36
COMPREHENSIVE DENTAL CARE INSURANCE PLAN - (Employee and Dependents)
ELIGIBLE EXPENSES
DIAGNOSTIC
-	One clinical examination per period of six consecutive months
-	Tests and laboratory examinations
-	Radiographic examinations and interpretations
(a)	periapical and/or occlusal films,one complete series per period of twenty-four consecutive months.
(b)	up to four bitewing films per period of twelve consecutive months. PREVENTATIVE
-	Prophylaxis, limited to two treatments per period of twelve consecutive months
-	Topical application of fluoride provided the dependent s under Age 17, limited to two treatments per period of twelve consecutive months
-	One oral hygiene instruction per period of twelve consecutive months
RESTORATIVE
-	Amalgam, silicate, acrylic or composite restorations SURGERY
Removal of erupted teeth and residual roots Removal of tumors and cysts
ADJUNCTIVE SERVICES .	Local anesthesia
General anesthesia, if required
Endodontic services, bu; excluding procedures 39510 to 39730
PERIODONTIC SERVICES Removable Dentures
initial provision of complete and partial dentures necessitated by the extraction of one or more natural teeth while the person was insured
-	Replacement of existing partial or complete dentures provided the person has been insured under this benefit for at least twelve consecutive months
One denture adjustment and one denture repair per period of twenty-four consecutive months
-	Addition to an existing partial denture necessitated by the extraction of one or more natural teeth while the person was insured under this benefit
.	Denture prophylaxis and	polishing
.	Relining of dentures
.	Rebasing of dentures
ORTHODONTIA, provided that the patient is under Age 18 and requires the use of orthodontic appliances for prevention or correction of teeth irregularities to establish normal occlusion.
Page 37
BASIS OF PAYMENT
For all of the above Eligible Expenses; excluding Orthodontia, the Plan will pay the amount charged by the Dentist or the amount in the applicable Ontario Dental Association Fee Guide-General Practice, whichever is the lesser, up to a Maximum Benefit of $1,600 per employee and 51,600 per Insured Dependent. Removable dentures are 100% insured with a lifetime maximum of two thousand dollars (52,000). For Orthodontia, the Plan will pay 75% of the amount charged, up to the aforementioned Fee Guide, to a Maximum Lifetime Benefit cf 51,500 per person. The O.D.A. fee guide used shall be
a)	for contract year 1993, O.D.A. fee guide for 1992
b)	for contract year 1994, O.D.A. fee guide for 1993
>
c)	for contract year 1995, O.D.A.fee guide for 1994
EXCLUSIONS
No benefit will be payable for:
-	Orthodontic treatment that commenced prior to the effective date of this Benefit.
-	. Expenses incurred for cosmetic purposes.
-	Expenses covered by any law or public plan, or that result from intentionally self-inflicted injuries, or treatment that is clearly experimental in nature.
Replacement df dentures which are los'„ mislaid or stolen.
Replacement of existing removable dentures unless they are at least five years old.
PRE-ASSESSMENT OF DENTAL CLAIMS
Frequently, and particularly if the treatment is costly or complex, more than one method of Dental Treatment is professionally adequate-in the circumstances. If the patient is about to incur Dental Treatment, the cosf of which will be at least $300., the employee is required to submit to the Administrator, in advance of treatment being commenced, the Dentist's Treatment Plan, including pre-operative evidence. The Administrator will advise the employee of the services that will be covered, and the amount payable by the Plan, in the event that the treatment is carried out and the employee or dependent is insured when such treatment is provided, in the event that the employee failsto submit the Claim for ?re-Assessment, the Plan will base its payment on the evidence then available, and will pay the leas! expensive, professionally adequate, mode of dental treatment.
SUBMITTING A CLAIM
The Dentist has a supply of Official Dental Claim Forms, which when filled out COMPLETELY BY THE EMPLOYEE, may be submitted to Employee Benefit Plan Services for reimbursement. These Forms are to be used for the above ?re-Assessment Service. The Human Resources Department within the Company also keeps a supply cf claim forms from Employee Benefit Plan Services which when fully completed by the Dentist and the employee, may be submitted for reimbursement.
Pag; 3S
DRUG PLAN - (Employee and Dependents)
The Plan pays the amount charged by a Pharmacist, Dentist, Physician or hospital for prescribed drugs, medicines, sera, injectables, insulin and diabetic supplies, minus twenty cents (.20) for each such prescription or refill thereof. If the one (1) prescription covers more than one (1) order, twenty cents (.20) is deducted from each order (referfo claims procedure on page 42). Patent medicines, vitamins (unless injected) and expenses covered by any other agency are not covered.
VISIONCARE PLAN • (Employee and Dependents)
Effective with prescriptions filled on or after April 25, 1983, the Plan will pay the amount charged by a Dispensing Optician or Optometrist, up to a maximum of one hundred and twenty* five dollars (S125.00), Bifocals up to maximum of one hundred and fifty dollars ($150.00), and Trifocals to a maximum of one hundred and seventy-five dollars (5175.00) per twenty-four (24) consecutive months. Only one claim is allowed per insured person per twenty-four 24) consecutive mofiths, except in the case of children requiring a more frequent change in lens due to progressive myopia, hyperopia or astigmatism. In this case, and provided there is a change in prescribed lens, the above maximums apply each twelve (12) consecutive months. .
CONTACT LENS
If you order contact lens, hard or soft, the lifetime maximum is two hundred and twenty five ($225.00) dollars. Once this maximum is reached, your future claims, for regular glasses or contact lens, will be limited to the above twenty-four (24) month maximurns,
EXCLUSIONS
The Plan will not pay for sunglasses, special tints, frame ornamentation or personification, or make any special allowances if your glasses a: contact lens are lost, siclen or broken.
PROVINCIAL GOVERNMENT HOSPITAL AND BASIC MEDICAL PLANS
The Company will pay the full costs of the Employer Health Tax How to Claim Benefits
All claims, except those under the Dag Plan are to be submitted on the proper form, along with appropriate bills or receipts to the Administrator
Employee Benefit Plan Services Suite 600, 300 John Street Thornhill, Ontario L3T 5W4
General Enquiry Telephone No. 731*1412
?rescription receipts will be placed by the employee in the prescription drop box. Payments will be picked up, usually within 24 hours, from the Receptionist.
Dental and Visioncare forms for the Employee Benefit Pian Services are available from the Human Resources Department,
Page 39
Claim Forms for Disability Income must be submitted through the Employer. Claim forms can be obtained through your Company Health Centre, Union Office, or the Administrator.
Submissions of Claims ■ Ail claims, except Weekly Indemnity, must be submitted within ninety (90) days of the date of loss or expense is incurred. Weekly indemnity claims must be submitted within two (2) weeks of the date a physician is first (1st) consulted forthe disability.
Disclaimer - It is expressly understood and agreed that the information appearing above is a summary only, and that the eligibility of any person or claim will be governed by the terms of the Insurance Contracts through which the benefits are provided.
Rate of Weekly Employer Contributions • Effective with weeks worked on and after ratification, including weeks of paid vacation, the Company will contribute each week for each eligible employee the sum of: "An amount equal to the cosf of these benefits and administration, as determined the Trustees from time to time during the life of the Agreement".
Administration - The Employer agrees that the benefits provided herein will be provided through the Milk Drivers and Dairy Employees Local 647 Welfare Trust Fund, and that the • required Weekly Contributions will be forwarded not laterthan the fifteenth (15th) of the month following the month for which the report is submitted.
Contributions will be by cheque made payable to The Milk Drivers Local 647 Welfare Fund" and forwarded along with the Report to the Administrator,
Employee Benefit Plan Services Suite 600,300 John Street Thornhill, Ontario L3T 5W4
Page 40
Letter of understanding #1
Between
William Neilson Ltd. (the Company)
and
Teamsters Local 647 (the Union)
Re. medical clearance in bidding procedure
The Company and The Union agree that:
1)	In orderto be entitled to request that an employee undergo a medical examination, the Company must stipulate in the posting that a medical examination may be required.
2)	An employee will only be asked to undergo a medical examination if the Company has reasonable and probable grounds forsuspecting that because of a medical condition the employee is unfit to perform the posted job.
3)	Provided the employee consents, the Company will advise the employee in the presence of a Union Steward of the Company's reasons for requiring a medical examination, The Union Steward and the employee will be afforded the opportunity to make representations as to whether the request is justified.
4)	in the event that the union disagrees with the Company's request that the employee undergo a medical examination, the employee will nevertheless undergo a medical examination by a physician of his or her choice but will retain all right to grieve.
5)	The employee shall consent to the examining physician discussing the employee's medical assessment with the Company's medical department. In the event of a disagreement between the examining physician and the Company's physician, the employee.may be required to undergo an examination by a physician agreed to by both the Company and the employee.
6)	Employees will be permitted to undergo any medical examinations during scheduled working hours to a maximum of two (2) hours, unless special circumstances require additional time. In the event that the employee does not schedule a medical examination during scheduled working hours, he orshe will be paid to a maximum of two (2)hours straight time pay. Employees will also be reimbursed the following reasonable out-of-pocket expenses where they occur transportation costs, parking fees; and any fees charged by the examining physician above and beyond O.H.I.P.
Signed at Hatton Hills this____day of__________-1993
Forthe Company
Forthe Union
Page 42
Letter of understanding #2
Between
William Neilson Ltd. (the Company)
and
Teamsters Local $47 (the Union)
Re. Training periods for Article 13,09 tel
The Company and The Union agree that:
Where an employee successfully bids,or is placed into a job, the following training periods shall apply:
Minimum	Maximum
Jab	# of Days	# of Days
Checker	2	5
Loader	2	5
Utility Production	10	34
Utility Storage	2	10
Spare Production	10	34
Spare Storage	2	10
Process Helper/Milk	2	10
Raw Milk Receiver	2	10
Process Cultured Products	2	10
Creamer Operator	2	24
Stock Taker	2	5
Process Cultured Products/ClP	9	10
Materials Handler	2	i 0
Filler Op./Cultured Prod	2	10
Filler Operator	2	10
CIP Cleaner	*>	10
Plant Cleaner	2	15
Returns Receiver	0	3
Unitizer Operator	2	5
Line Clearer	2	
Order Picker	2	5
Palletizer	2	5
Page 43
Job	Minimum	Maximum
	H ofDavs	H cf Davs
fork Lift Operator	2	5
Returns Dumper	1	2
Culture Products Packer	1	2
Cultured Products Palletizer	1	2
Unbid	0	0
Utility Picker	2	5
Stocktaker	2	5
Utility Warehouse/Sp“ciaI Delivery	2	10
Signed at Halton Hills this	dav cf	1923
For the Company
For the Union
Page 44
Letter of Understanding &3
Between
William Nleilson Ltd. (the Company)
and
Teamsters Local 647 (the Union)
Re: Drivers
In the event that the Company decides to change its distribution operation by eliminating the use of owner operators and reverting to the former practice of hiring drivers as direct employees the Company and The Union agree:
That all references to drivers contained in the Collective Agreement in force forthe period January 01, 1991, to December 31, 1992, shall become part ofthe Collective Agreement in force at the time the reversal takes place.
Signed at Halton Hills on the___day of
1993
For the Company
Forthe Union
Page 45
Letter of Understanding #4
Between
William Neilson Ltd. (theCompany)
and
Teamsters Local 647 (the Union)
Re: -.London Depot Relief Employees
In the matter of Relief Employees employed at the Company's London Depot the Company and the Union agree:
a)	That such an employee shall have, as a condition of employment, a valid Class "A Z" driving licence and shall have been approved to drive by the Company's Driver Trainer.
b)	That such employee shall be paid, effective the Monday following the date of ratification, a base rate of sixteen dollars ($76.00) per hour,
c)	That such an employee shall not be replaced by a Recall employee from the Company's recall Ks: unless the Recall employee has a valid Class "AZ" drivers licence and has been approved to drive by the Company's Driver Trainer.
Signed at
this,_______________of July 1993
For the Company
Forthe Union