	- \ SOURCE	(V		
EFF.	91		IT
. TERM.^C Ino. OF	¥	Mi	JL
EMPLOYEES
NOMBRE
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
This Agreement, effective the 19th day of September, 1997 - BETWEEN *
WILLIAM NE1LSON LIMITED hereinafter referred to as the "COMPANY"
-AND-
MILK AND BREAD DRIVERS, DAIRY EMPLOYEES. CATERERS AND ALLIED EMPLOYEES, LOCAL UNION 647
affiliated with the International Brotherhood of Teamsters, Chauffeurs, Warehousemen and Helpers of America, hereinafter referred to as the "UNION"
0057% Cot)
INDEX
Article	Xidc	Page
1	Recognition	3
2	Management Rights	3
3	Union Security	4
4	Grievance Procedure and Arbitration	5
5	Discharge and Discipline	7
6	Strikes or Lockouts	7
7	Seniority	8
8	Job Postings and Vacancies	10
9	Hours of Work and Overtime	10
10	Vacations	11
11	Paid Holidays-	12
12	Notice of Absence and Leave of Absence	13
13	Bereavement Leave	14
14	Jury Duty	14
15	Uniforms	14
16	Gender	15
17	Discrimination	15
18	General	1S
19	Term of Agreement	#
Appendix "A'	Part-time Employees and Students	
Appendix "B”	Wages / Classifications / COLA	19
Appendix "C*	Health & Welfare - Pension	21
Letter of Understanding #1	Assurance of Employment	23
Letter of Understanding #2	Severance	25
Letter of Understanding #3	Economic Adjustment	28
1
ARTICLE 1 • RECOGNITION
1.01
1.02
1.03	(a)
(b)
(0
ARTICLE 2 -2.01
(a)
(b>
(c)
(d>
(e)
The Company recognizes the Union as the exclusive Bargaining agent for all employees at the Halton Hills Milk Pasteurizing Plant save and except Supervisors, persons above the rank of Supervisor, office staff, and persons covered by subsisting Collective Agreements.
It is not the intention of the Company to normally utilize persons outside of the bargaining unit to perform bargaining unit work. However, the Union recognizes that the nature of the Company's business emphasizes the need to react quickly and cost-effectively to changes that are necessary for.the benefit of the business. In the event that the Company determines that it b necessary for persons outside of the bargpinirg unit to perform bargaining unit work, the performance erf such work shall not occur without prior discussion with the Union. The Union shall be entitled to make recommendations with respect to the manner in which such work is to be performed. In the event that the Company and the Union are unable to resolve the issue, the Company shall be entitled to take whatever steps are necessary and such action shall not be construed as a violation of this Agreement and no arbitrator, arbitration board or any other administrative tribunal shall have jurisdiction to entertain any grievance and/or complaint that may be filed as a result of the Company's decision.
Full-time employees are those who normally work the hours provided for in Article 9 herein.
Part-time employees are those employees who normally work thirty-two
(32)hours per week or less. All matters relative to part-time employees shall be governed by Appendix "A" of this Agreement.
A student employee b a person who is hired to work on a full-time basis from May 1 up to September 30 and December 1 up to and including January 15. Under no circumstances can a student employee acquire seniority under this Agreement or any Appendix thereof by reason only of his employment during such periods. All matters relative to student employees shall be governed by Appendix ’A" of this agreement.
MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
The management of the business and the direction of the working force is a right vested solely and exclusively with the Company and the Company shall have the unfettered right to:
plan, direct and control the operations;
maintain the discipline and efficiency of the employees;
establish and require employees to observe Company rules and regulations which are just and fair;
hire, layoff or assign working hours;
transfer, promote or demote employees;
3
(f)	suspend, discharge or otherwise discipline employees;
(g)	determine the products to be processed, manufactured or handled
(h)	study or introduce new or improved production methods and the Union agrees to co-operate with the Company in the installation of any such methods and in the education of it’s members for the necessity of such changes and improvements:
(I) establish schedules of production and the methods, processes and means of production handling and to determine the manner in which work is to be performed:
(j)	determine and establish the level of skills, ability, knowledge, competence and qualifications necessary to perform the work;
(k)	introduce and establish production/performanca levels that employees are expected to meet:
(l)	introduce and establish incantive/performance programs:
(m) introduce classifications and determine the appropriate hourly rates of pay and determine the necessary skills, ability, qualifications and physical competence required for all classifications.
2.02	Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the provisions of Article
2.01 herein shall be deemed not to exclude other functions not specifically set forth. It is understood that the Company retains all rights , not otherwise specifically provided for in this Agreement.
ARTICLE 3 - UNION SECURITY
3.01	The Company agrees to deduct the regular monthly Union dues from the pay of employees in the bargaining unit. Those employees in the bargaining unit who work less than thirty*tw° (32) hours per week shall be liable to pay the full amount of Union dues. The Company will deduct the appropriate amounts from their wages and remit the same as if they were regular employees.
3.02	The Union shall notify the Company in writing of the prevailing rate of Union dues. The amount so deducted will be forwarded to the designated officer of the Union by the twentieth (20th) day of the month for which the deduction was made.
3.03	Each employee must sign a dues deduction authorization form after completing his or her probationary period. The Company, in making the aforesaid deduction, shall have the right to rely upon the signed authorization form. The Union agrees to defend and hold the Company harmless against all claims, demands and expenses, should any person at any time claim that the Company acted wrongfully or illegally in making such check-off deductions, or should any person at any time contend or claim that the Company has acted wrongfully or illegally in requiring any employee to execute an authorization to deduct Union dues form.
4
3.04
ARTICLE
4.01
4.02
The Union may elect or appoint from among the employees with seniority one (1) steward per shift to a maximum of three (3) stewards who will also comprise the Union bargaining committee. The Union recognizes that the stewards have regular duties to perform as employees of the Company. Therefore, such employees will not leave their regular work for the purpose of conducting business on behalf of the Union without first obtaining permission from their recognized supervisor. With this understanding, the Company will pay for any regular hours lost by the stewards in handling grievances during working hours. The Company will pay the members of the bargaining committee for any regular hours lost during such negotiations, up to but not including Conciliation.
- GRIEVANCE AND ARBITRATION PROCEDURE
If an employee covered by this Agreement has a complaint relating to the interpretation, application or administration of this Agreement or where the employee alleges a violation of this Agreement an earnest effort will be made to settle such difference without delay in the following manner.
STEP 1 The employee involved, and the steward if the employee requests, must first discuss the grievance with the employee's supervisor and must do so within three (3) working days of the date upon which the incident giving rise to the grievance first occurred.
STEP 2 If the grievance is not settled at Step 1 and the employee wishes to pursue the grievance, a written grievance must be submitted to the Company within five (5) working days of the date upon which the incident giving rise to the grievance first occurred, on a form to be provided for that purpose. The grievance form shall be signed by the employee and a steward and shall indicate the nature of the grievance, the provision in the Collective Agreement alleged to have been violated and the redress sought. The Company shall give its reply, in writing, to the grievance within five (5)working days following receipt of the written grievance. If the Company does not respond within the five (S) working days, the grievance should be considered denied.
STEP 3 If the Company's reply to the grievance is not satisfactory and the Union wishes to pursue the grievance further, the Union may give notice to the Company. Notice must be given within five (5) days from the date of the Company's reply at Step 2. The parties shall then arrange for a meeting to discuss the grievance and the Union representative may attend such meeting. Following such meeting the Company shall give it's reply within five (5) days from the date of the meeting. If the Company does not respond within the five (5) working days, the grievance should be considered denied.
Should the Union desire to submit a policy grievance it must do so in writing within five (5) working days of the date upon which the incident giving rise to the grievance occurred and the Company shall give it's reply to the grievance in writing, within five (5)working days following receipt of the grievance. If the Company does not respond within the five (5) working days, the grievance should be considered denied.
5
4.03
4.04
4.05
4.06
4.07
4.08
4.09
4.10
4.11
Should the Company wish to submit a grievance it shall do so in writing to the Union representative and the Union shall give its reply, in writing, within five (5) working days following receipt of the grievance.
Should any grievance fail to be satisfactorily settled under the foregoing provisions of this Article it may be referred to arbitration by either the Company or the Union as herein provided.
Where a difference arises between the Company and the Union relating to the interpretation, application or administration of this Agreement, including any question as to whether a matter is arbitrable, or where an allegation is made that this Agreement has been violated, either of the parties may notify the other party in writing of it's desire to submit the difference or allegation to arbitration. Such notice must be given in writing to the other party within ten (10) working days after the written decision b rendered at Step 3 of the Grievance Procedure and shall contain the name of three suggestions for arbitrator. The recipient of the notice shall within five (5) working days inform the other party whether any of the three proposed arbitrators are satisfactory and, if not, will suggest three other names. The party desiring arbitration will then contact the other party if necessary to resolve the choice of arbitrator. If the parties fail to agree upon an arbitrator within twenty-one (21) working days, either party may apply to the Ministry of Labour for Ontario to appoint an arbitrator.
The arbitrator shall hear and determine the matter and shall issue a decision which shall be final and binding upon the parties and upon any employee affected by it
The arbitrator shall not have any authority to alter or amend in any way the provisions of this Agreement; to substitute any new provisions in lieu thereof; to give any decision inconsistent with, or contrary to, the terms and conditions of this Agreement; or to consider any matter not covered by a provision of this Agreement.
The cost and expenses of the arbitrator shall be borne equally by the parties. Either party may be represented by counsel.
The time limits in this Article are mandatory, but may be extended by mutual agreement. Any grievance not filed or not appealed from one step of the grievance procedure to the next, or not taken to arbitration within the specified time limits shall be deemed to be abandoned.
No matter may be submitted to arbitration which has not been properly carried through all steps of the grievance procedure and within the time limits specified or any agreed upon extension.
Employees who feel that they have been discharged without just cause may file a written grievance. All cases of discharge must be grieved within five (5) working days from date of discharge and will commence at Step 3.
6
ARTICLE 5 •
5.01	(a)
(b)
5.02
5.03
5.04
ARTICLE S • 6.01
DISCHARGE AND DISCIPLINE
No employee, except employees during their probationary period, shall be discharged or disciplined except for just cause. The Union agrees to cooperate in any endeavor to correct inefficiencies of employees which might necessitate disciplinary action.
Discharge and discipline grievances may be settled by confirming the Company's decision or by re-instating the discharged or suspended employee with compensation for time lost, less interim earnings if applicable or by any other arrangement which is just and equitable in the opinion of the Company and the Union.
The Company agrees that whenever an interview is held with an employee regarding his work or conduct, which becomes part of his record, the steward or a Union representative shall be present at such interview. Failure to comply with this requirement shall not cause any resultant discipline to be null and void. Further, the Union representative or steward will leave the meeting if requested to leave by the employee.
All disciplinary warnings or reprimands which are placed in an employee's record and all notices of demotion for cause, discharge or suspension, shall be in writing and shall contain the reason for the warning, reprimand, suspension or discharge. One (1) copy shall be given to the employee and one (1) copy shall be forwarded to the Union within seven (7)days of the incident giving rise thereto. Failure to provide any of the copies referred to herein shall not render the discipline null and void.
The Company may discharge any employee for cause. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Company shall have the right to discipline up to and including discharge upon any of the following, or similar grounds, without notice of pay in lieu thereof:
(i)	stealing, dishonesty, willful destruction of Company property or physical violence directed at other employees:
(ii)	drinking while on duty or being under the influence of liquor or non-prescription drugs while on duty:
(iii)	direct refusal to obey orders given by the proper party unless such orders jeopardize life, health or safety of the employees.
STRIKES OR LOCKOUTS
The Union undertakes and agrees that while this agreement is in operation, neither the Union nor any employee, shall take part in or call or encourage any strike, picketing, sit-down, slowdown or any suspension of, stoppage of, or interference with, work or production which shall in any way affect the operations of the Company. Nor shall there be any sympathy strikes or secondary boycotts and the Company agrees that it will not engage in any lockout during the term of this agreement.
ARTICLE 7 - SENIORITY
7.01
7.02
7.03
7.04
7.05
Employees shall acquire seniority rights based on the length of service while in the bargaining unit. An employee shall not acquire seniority rights during a probationary period of sixty (60) completed worked days, or longer period if mutually agreed upon by the Union and the Company and such agreement shall not be unreasonably withheld. Once an employee has successfully completed the probationary period, his seniority shall date back to the last day of hiring. Notwithstanding any other provision to the contrary that may be contained elsewhere in this Collective Agreement, the Company shall have the right to terminate an employee during his probationary period for less than just cause.
The continuous length of service of an employee in the bargaining unit shall be the determining factor in layoffs which result in the reduction of the bargaining unit subject to the provisions of Article 7.03 herein provided for and recalls from layoff.
Where the Company reduces the number of employees in the bargaining unit, the employee affected by the layoff (defined as a period of seven (7) consecutive working days of no work), shall have the following options:
(a)	he can accept the lay-off; or
(b)	he shall be entitled to displace the most junior employee in the bargaining unit for whose job he immediately possesses the skills, ability, knowledge, competence and qualifications necessary to perform the work in question;
(c)	if the affected employee is unable to displace a more junior employee, he shall be deemed to be laid off.
No probationary, part-time or student employees will be retained in the bargaining unit if a full-time employee is laid off provided that the full-time employee immediately possesses the skills, ability, knowledge, competence and qualifications necessary to perform the work in question.
An employee shall lose all seniority and his employment shall automatically be terminated if any of the following should occur:
(a)	he voluntarily leaves the employ of the Company;
(b)	he is discharged and not reinstated through the Grievance procedure as herein provided for;
(c)	he is absent from work for more than three (31consecutive working days without providing a reasonable explanation which is acceptable to the Company;
(d)	he fails to return to work after a lay-off within seven (7) days of the delivery by registered mail of notice of recall;
8
(e)
(f)
(g)
(hi
(i)
7.06
7.07
7.08
7.09
7.10
he fails to return to work upon the conclusion of a leave of absence without providing a reasonable explanation which is acceptable to the Company:
he fails to take a medical examination by a duly qualified medical practitioner when required to do so by the Company;
if he b not recalled to work from a lay-off, his name shall be retained on the seniority list for a minimum of six (6) months, up to a period equal to his bargaining unit seniority as at the date of lay-off, up to a maximum of twelve (12) months;
he fails to meet the production/performanca levels established by the Company from time to time;
he is granted a leave of absence and then uses such leave of absence for reasons other than those provided for in Article 12.02 herein.
Where an employee has been transferred or promoted to a position outside the bargaining unit, his seniority shall continue to accrue for a period of twelve (12) months from the date of transfer or promotion. Thereafter, his seniority shall be maintained.
The Company shall maintain a seniority list updated with a copy to the Union when necessary. Any employee objecting to such seniority list must do so within five (5) working days of the posting of such list.
An employee’s seniority shall continue to accumulate on each occasion that he is absent from work because of illness, injury or approved absences.
When an employee is absent from work because of sickness or disability, he shall not lose seniority except as provided in Articles 7.05 (c) and (f), of this Agreement. Upon his return to work, he shall be returned to his former position at the applicable rate of pay, provided that such position still exists and further provided that the returning employee immediately possesses the physical fitness and the skills, ability, knowledge, competence and qualifications necessary to perform the work in question. In the event that the return of the employee results in the displacement of another employee who was permanently assigned to such position, then the displaced employee shall be deemed to be laid-off and the provisions of Article 7.03(b) shall apply.
In the event that the returning employee is unable to satisfy the requirements of his former position, the Company and the Union shall meet to determine alternate employment for such employee.
Severance pay to those employees who are laid-off shall be paid in accordance with the Employment Standards Act of Ontario.
An employee who accepts severance pay shall have no further claim with the Company.
9
ARTTHI-F a ■ JOB POSTINGS AND VACANCIES
8.01
8.02
ARTICLE
9.01
9.02
9.03
9.04
9.05
9.06
Vacancies which are deemed to be permanent by the Company will be posted on the bulletin board and the employees shall have the right to apply for such vacancy. Selection to such vacancy shall be made at the sole discretion of the Company. The Company will undertake to consider seniority.
An employee who is awarded a posting and progresses from a lower, to a higher paying classification shall be moved to the rate which is closest to, but higher than his existing hourly rate. He will then move through the wage progression of that classification, during the timeframe outlined in Appendix “B".
• HOURS OF WORK & OVERTIME
The work week for full-time employees shall normally consist of forty (40) hours, from Sunday to Saturday. It is understood that the Company retains the right to establish various shift configurations or the number of hours to be worked, not specifically provided for herein, provided that such shifts are in accordance with applicable legislation. Further, nothing herein shall be construed as a guarantee of daily or. weekly hours to be worked or paid, except as hereinafter provided for in Article 9.07.
Starting and quitting times and the arrangement of shifts and the assignment of employees to particular shifts shall be determined by the Company at its sole discretion. In the assignment of employees to particular shifts, the Company may give consideration to the seniority of the employees involved. In addition, the Company undertakes to consider any undue hardship caused to an employee by such assignment.
It is not the intention or desire of the Company to apply the provisions of Articles 9.01 and 9.02 in a frivolous or arbitrary manner, and to that extent the Company confirms that the application of this clause will be done so as to advance or promote the best interests of the business.
Overtime shall be paid at the rate of time and one-half the employee's regular straight time rate for all hours worked in excess of forty-four (44) hours in a week.
There shall be no pyramiding of overtime and/or premiums provided for in this Agreement.
Hours in excess of the normal work week shall be allocated at the sole discretion of the Company.
An employee's scheduled starting time shall not be changed by more than two (2) hours during the week in which he is working without his approval.
10
9.07 (a)	The Company shall guarantee to provide forty (40) hours of work each week to each full-time employee who has acquired seniority and who was on the active payroll as of September 19m, 1997, provided the employee reports for work on time as scheduled and b available to work the full forty (40) hours. This provision shall not apply in the event of an act of God; fire: flood: or equipment or technical problems beyond the control of the Company. Such guarantee, which s exclusive of overtime, shall be reduced by eight (8) hours per week in any work week in which one (1) of the Paid Holidays in Article 11 is observed.
(b)	Full-time employees hired after September 19*, 1997 who are scheduled to work, and who report for work as scheduled shall be guaranteed their Scheduled hours of work for that day or pay, at their regular rate or pay, in lieu of work. This provision shall not apply in the event of an act of God: fire; flood: or equipment or technical problems beyond the control of the Company, in which case the employee shall be guaranteed four (4) hours work or pay in lieu of work.
9.08	An employee who is called to work outside of his regular shift hours and who reports on time and remains as long as required will receive not less than four (4) hours of work.
9.09 (ai	Where an employee works in excess of three (31 hours prior to the start of his scheduled shift, he will be granted a paid fifteen (15) minute rest period upon completion of the third overtime hour.
(b)	Where an employee works in excess of three (3) hours immediately after the end of his scheduled shift, he will be allowed to take a fifteen (15) minute paid rest period after he has completed the three (3) hours and shall be entitled to further paid (15) minutes rest periods after completing each three (3) hours.
9.10	The Company will schedule a thirty (30) minute unpaid lunch period and thirty (30) minutes of paid rest time during a shift. The employee shall take the rest periods when instructed to do so.
9.11	Employees shall be paid by cheque, or at the option of the Company, by direct deposit.
ARTICLE 10	-VACATIONS
' o o	Vacations with pay will be granted by the Company in accordance with the following schedule:
(a)	one (1) year of continuous service - two (2) weeks:
(b)	five (5)years of continuous service - three (3) weeks;
(c)	twelve (12) years of continuous service • four (4)weeks;
(d)	twenty (20)years of continuous service - five (5)weeks;
11
10.02
10.03
10.04
10.05
10.06
10.07
ARTICLE
11.01
For the purposes of computing vacations, continuous service will be calculated as of June 308'.
For employees who have worked a minimum of one thousand (1000) hours during the one (1) year prior to June 30th, the vacation pay allowance referred to in this Article will be calculated by multiplying the employee’s regular hourly rate of pay by forty (40) hours for each week of entitlement.
For employees who have worked less than one thousand (1000) hours during the one (1) year prior to June 30th, the vacation pay allowance referred to in this Article will be two percent (2%) of the earnings for the aforementioned one (1) year period for each week of entitlement. The term “earnings1 11 shall be as defined in the Employment Standards Act of Ontario.
Employees with less than one (1) year of continuous service as of June 30th will be entitled to vacation pay in accordance with the Employment Standards Act of Ontario.
Where a Paid Holiday as provided for in this Agreement occurs during an employee’s vacation period, the employee shall take another day in lieu thereof, or be paid for such Holiday, at the option of the Company.
The vacation schedule for the bargaining unit shall be posted by April 1st of each year and employees shall have the right to select vacation time in accordance with seniority. The Company is entitled to maintain a work force which is sufficient to perform the work and therefore reserves the right to refuse any request for vacation time and to have such vacation time rescheduled for an alternate date. The Company undertakes to give consideration to any undue hardship suffered by the employee as a result of such rescheduling.
Vacations are not cumulative nor can they be carried over from year to year. Vacations are to be taken in increments of five (5) days, unless otherwise agreed to by the Company.
1 - PAID HOLIDAY
The following Paid Holidays shall be recognized as legal holidays:
New Year’s Day	Labour Day
Good Friday	Thanksgiving	Day
Victoria Day	Christmas Day
Dominion Day	Boxing Day
Civic Holiday
In the event that the federal or provincial governments should declare any other day(s) a legal holiday, the Company agrees to recognize such day(s) as a Paid Holiday.
12
11.02
11.02 (a)	To qualify for pay for a Paid Holiday, the employee: must have been in the employee of the Company for three (3| months;
(b)	must work his last scheduled working day preceding the Paid Holiday and his first scheduled working day after the Paid Holiday, unless he was absent with permission.
(0	must have performed work on at least twelve (12) days in the four (4) weeks immediately preceding the Paid Holiday.
11.03	Should a Paid Holiday occur during an employee's leave of absence, he shall not be paid for such Paid Holiday.
11.04	To meet the needs of the business, the Company reserves the right to require employees to work on any of the paid holidays as provided for herein.
11.OS	Where an employee works on a holiday he will receive one and one-half (1 ’/i) times his regular straight time hourly rate as well as payment for the holiday or a substituted day off.
ARTICLE 12 ■	• NOTICE OF IE & LEAVE 01 IE
12.01	Employees are expected to attend work regularly. Employees shall notify the appropriate persons designated by the Company of their intent to be absent prior to the commencement of their shift, giving the reason why the employee is unable to report, when he expects to return to work and how he can be reached relative to his absence.
12.02	An employee who wishes a leave of absence for legitimate personal reasons shall make such request in writing to the Company, at least two (2) months in advance of the proposed commencement date of such leave of absence, except in the case of personal emergency. The employee's request shall contain: his reason for the proposed absence; the commencement date of the proposed leave of absence, and the length of the proposed leave of absence. The permission of the Company will not be unreasonably withheld.
12.03	The Company agrees that an employee appointed by the Union as a full time representative shall be granted a leave of absence without pay while serving in such capacity. Such persons shall continue to accumulate seniority for a period of up to twelve (12) months.
12.04	Employees shall be eligible for maternity/patsrnity leave in accordance with the Employment Standards Act of Ontario.
12.05	The Company will not grant an employee's request for a leave of absence for the purpose of employment with another company, or becoming self employed.
13
ARTICLE 13 - BEREAVEMENT LEAVE
13,01	The Company agrees that in the event of bereavement in the immediate family, meaning parent/step-parent; spouse; child: brother or sister, if tha funeral is attended, to allow such time off as is necessary, not to exceed four (4) calendar days in succession and to pay for the days which ha would otherwise have worked, for his regular scheduled hours at his regular hourly rate. If the employee is unable to attend the funeral, he shall be allowed one (l)day off without loss of regular pay.
13.02	The Company agrees that in the event of the death of an employee’s mother-in-law or father-in-law; grandchildren; grandmother or grandfather; daughter/son-in-law or brother/sister-in-law, he shall be allowed bereavement leave of one (1) day with pay at his regular hourly rate, provided the funeral takes place on his regular scheduled working day and he attends the funeral.
ARTICLE 14	-JURY DUTY
14,01	An employee who is required to serve on a jury shall be compensated for days actually spent on jury duty when he would otherwise have been at work.
14.02	Such an employee shall receive the difference between his jury fees and his normal day’s pay for that time he would have been regularly employed had he not been serving on the jury. The employee shall be required to report immediately upon being excused or released from jury duty when such reporting is reasonable under the circumstances.
14.03	The claim of an employee shall be verified by presentation of his jury duty cheque: however, no payment shall be made for any hour for which the employee receives compensation by the Company for any other reason. Payment shall not be withheld pending submission of the jury duty cheque.
14.04	Any employee subpoenaed to attend as a witness on behalf of the Company or the Crown shall be entitled to the difference between his witness fee and his normal day’s pay.
ARTICLE 15	- UNIFORMS
15.01	Three (3) uniform sets, (3 pants and 3 shirts) will be issued at the start of permanent employment. One (1) parka will be issued where required. These will be personally monogrammed for each employee. The uniforms shall be returned for replacement when worn out. Such replacement must be pre-authorized by the Company.
15.02	Appropriate coveralls for storage personnel will also be stocked, based on the formula above.
14
15.03
It b a condition of employment that all full-time employees covered by Article 1.01 of this Agreement wear safety shoes at all times while on duty. The Company will pay one hundred dollars ($100.00) to each employee who has completed one (1) year of continuous service, as a contribution toward the cost of safety shoes to a maximum of one (1) pair per year. Such payment shall be made on or about the beginning of February of each year.
Safety footwear must be in good repair, capable of protecting the employee's feet in a manner they were originally designed to do. l.A.P.A. guidelines will be used as the determining factor when quality of footwear is in question.
ARTICLE 16 - GENDER
16.01	Wherever the masculine gender is used in this Agreement, it shall be deemed to include the feminine.
ARTICLE 17 - DISCRIMINATION
17.01	The Company and the Union agree that there will be no discrimination against any employee which is contrary to the Human Rights Code, provided that the retirement of an employee within the provisions of the pension plan shall not amount to discrimination.
ARTICLE 18-GENERAL
18.01	Employees shall promptly report to the Company any loss of product, damage to property or equipment or shortage of merchandise and where possible, give a statement indicating the cause thereof. Failure to do so can result in disciplinary action up to and including discharge.
18.02	The Union agrees that it will encourage it's members to uphold the rules and regulations of the Company in regard to punctual and steady attendance, proper and sufficient notification in case of absence and conduct on the job.
18.03	All past practices between the Company and the Union, which were in existence prior to September 19'", 1997, shall cease to be recognized by the Company or the Union unless the practice has been specifically provided for in this Agreement.
18.04	Attached hereto and forming part of this Agreement are the following appendices:
Appendix "A" • Part-time employees & Students Appendix “8" • Wages/Classifications Appendix “C" • Health & Welfare • Pension
Letter of Understanding #1 Letter of Understanding #2 Letter of Understanding tt3
15
ARTICLE 19 - TERM OF AGREEMENT
19.01
19.02
19.03
19.04
Unless changed by mutual consent, this Agreement shall continue in full force and effect for a period of six (6) years, commencing Septembe 19*, 1997 and expiring September 19*, 20^3 ancl shall continue ■automatically thereafter for one~nT~78®‘"P^Ttods'unless one (1) of the parties hereto notifies the other party within ninety (90) days immediately prior to the expiration date, that it desires to amend the Agreement.
Negotiations shall begin within fifteen (15) days following notification for amendment, as provided for in the previous paragraph.
If, pursuant to the negotiations, an agreement is not reached on the renewal or amendment of this Agreement or the making of a new Agreement prior to the expiry date, this Agreement shall continue in full force and effect until a new agreement Is signed between the parties or unless conciliation proceedings prescribed under the Ontario Labour Relations Act have been completed, whichever date should first occur.
This Agreement shall enure to the benefit of, and be binding upon, the parries hereto and their respective successors and assigns.
16
APPENDIX ’A"
PART-TIME EMPLOYEES & STUDENTS
A - 1
A • 2
A - 3
(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
A - 4
A - 5 A - 6
A - 7
A - 8
The Company and the Union agree that part-time and student employees are not entitled to any of the rights or benefits of this Agreement, or any Appendix to this Agreement, unless specifically provided for.
The following are the terms and conditions relating to the employment of part-time employees and students. In the event of a conflict between the terms of this Appendix and the main body of this Agreement or any Appendix thereof, the terms of this Appendix shall prevail.
Part-time employees and students shall not normally work more than thirty-two (32) hours per hours per week except:
during the period from May 1 up to and including September 30;
during the period from December 1 up to and including January 15;
during other peak business periods or staff shortages to be determined at the sole discretion of the Company and;
when replacing a full-time employee who is absent for any reason whatsoever, for the duration of such absence, and the parties agree that the Company can utilize any combination of part-time employees to replace such absent full-time employee.
Part-time employees who work more than thirty-two (32) hours per week, outside of the periods set forth in Article A - 3 herein, for more than thirteen (13) continuous weeks, shall be convened to full-time status.
Part-time and student employees shall be entitled to vacation pay as provided for in the Employment Standards Act of Ontario.
Whenever a part-time employee is converted to full-time he will be credited in the full-time bargaining unit for seniority purposes with fifty percent (50%) of his seniority up to a maximum of one (1) year. It is understood that the employee will be required to serve a probationary period as though he was a new hire, and upon successful completion of the probationary period, his seniority will apply in the full-time bargaining unit. The seniority shall not apply for vacation accrual entirlement nor shall it apply to the waiting period for benefits that may be provided by the Company.
The Company agrees to provide all part-time employees, who have worked a minimum of twelve hundred (1200) hours in the previous calendar year, with a safety boot allowance of $50.00. Such payment shall be made on or about the beginning of February of each year.
Overtime is not voluntary for part-time employees and students. A part-time employee or student shall be paid at the rate of one and one half (1 1/2) times his regular rate for all hours of work which he performs in excess of forty-four (44) in one calendar week.
17
A - 9 A • 10
(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
(e)
(f)
(g)
(h)
(i)
A - 11
Part-time employees and students will be issued uniforms as required.
A part-time employee or student shall automatically be terminated if any of the following should occur:
he voluntarily leaves the employ of the Company;
he is discharged and not reinstated through the Grievance procedure;
he fails to return to work after a lay-off within seven (7) days of the delivery by registered mail of notice of recall;
he fails to return to work upon the conclusion of a leave of absence without providing an explanation which is acceptable to the Company;
he fails to take a medical examination by a duly qualified medical practitioner when required to do so by the Company;
his record of attendance is unacceptable to the Company;
he fails to comply with productlon/performance levels established by the Company from time to time;
he refuses an offer of work on three (3) occasions within any three (3) month period without providing an explanation which is acceptable to the Company:
his attitude, suitability and adaptability are not at a level which is acceptable to the Company.
In addition to the terms and conditions set forth in this Appendix, part-time employees and students shall also be entitled to the privileges of the following provisions of the Collective Agreement:
-	Article 4 (not applicable for terminated students)
-	Article 5.01 and 5.02
-	Article 9.04, 9.05 and 9.06
-	Article 12.01, 12.02 and 12.04
-	Article 14
•	Article 17
•	Article 18.01 and 18.02
and any other Articles that specifically refers to part-time employees and/or students, as the case may be.
18
APPENDIX "B"
WAGES/CLASS1FICATI0NS/C0LA
B - 1	Classifications & Rates of Pay
Effective October 19th, 1997, the following are the minimum hourly rates of pay for all employees described in Article 1.01 of this agreement:
	Start Rate	6 mot,	12 mot.	13 mot.	24 mot.	30 mot.	36 mot.	42 mot.	43 mot.	54 mot,	60 mot.	66 mot.	72 mot.
Skilled Worker	14.00	14.25	14.50	14.75	15.00	15.25	15.50	15.75	16.00	16.25	16.50	16.75	17.00
General Help	13.00	13.25	13.50	13.75	14.00	14.25	14.50	14.75	15.00	15.25	15.50	15.75	16.00
Maintenance Electrician	17.00	17.25	17.50	17.75	18.00	18.25	18.50	18.75	19.00	19.25	19.50	19.75	20.40
Maintenance Mechanic	16.00	16.25	16.50	16.75	17.00	17.25	17.50	17.75	18.00	18.25	18.50	18.75	19.40
Part-time	10.00	10.25	10.50	10.75	11.00	11.25	11.50	11.75	12.00	12.25	12.50	12.75	13.00
Students 10.00
B - 2	In the application and interpretation of Article B - 1 as herein provided for,
it is understood that employees who are at the end-rate of the wage progression scale in effect prior to September 19m, 1997, shall be deemed to be at the end-rate of the applicable wage progression scale as herein provided.
B-3	Classifications that existed prior to September 19d\ 1997, have been
deleted or merged with other classifications as provided for herein. For clarity, the following shall apply:
(a)	those employees formerly classified as:
-	Checker
-	Loader
-	Utility Production
-	Utility Storage
-	Spare Production
-	Spare Storage
•	Process Helper/Milk
-	Raw Milk Receiver
•	Creamer Operator
-	Material Handler
-	Filler Operator
•	CIP Cleaner/Sanitation
•	Order Picker
•	Palletizer
-	Truck jockey
-	QC Technologist
have been reclassified as 'Skilled Worker"
19
(b)	those employees formerly classified as:
•	Product Recovery
•	Returns Receiver
•	Returns Dumper
- Fork Lift Operator
•	Cultured Products Packer
have been reclassified as 'General Help"
(c)	those employees formerly classified as:
Relief
have been reclassified as ‘'Part-time/Student'’
(d)	the following classifications have been eliminated:
•	Category G
- Wage Appendix "C"
•	Wage Appendix “D*
•	Wage Appendix E'
8*4-	A Tool Allowance shall be paid to the Maintenance Mechanic(s) and
Maintenance £!ectrician(s) at the rate of three hundred and twenty-five dollars ($325.00)per year, in February of each year.
B - 5	COLA
Effective January 1, 1998 full-time employees covered by the terms of this Agreement, shall be entitled to a Cost of Living Allowance, subject to the provisions of this paragraph. The COLA adjustment shall apply only to the seventy-two (72) month hourly rate for each full-time wage classification as described in Article 8 * 1 hereof. All adjustments shall be incorporated into the standard hourly rate and shall be made quarter annually on the Monday closest to the first days of February, May, August and November based on the Consumer Price Index (CPI) for Canada (1986 = 100), published by Statistics Canada.
It is agreed that an increase or decrease of 0.325 in the CPI reflects an increase or decrease of one (1) cent per hour to the hourly rate. The increases or decreases will be applied quarterly and folded into the hourly rate each quarter. Any decreases in the CPI will not reduce the hourly wage rate herein provided for. (For example:	if
there is a COLA increase of six (61 cents in the first quarter and a decrease of eight (8) cents in the second quarter, the hourly rate can only be reduced by six (6)cents.)
20
APPENDIX “C"
HEALTH & WELFARE - PENSION
The Company will continue to provide the group insurance coverage in effect as of September IS*, 1997, to employees or substantially comparable substituted group insurance. The particulars of this group insurance are set out in a booklet which has been distributed to the employees. AU cf the insurances shall be as more particularly described and set forth in the policy or policies of insurance and the benefits provided by the Company shall be read subject to the terms and conditions of such policy. Any dispute over payments of benefits under such policies shall be adjusted between the insured or the beneficiary under any such policy and the insured concerned, and so long as the Company provides such insurance and pay the premiums for the insurance as outlined in C-3, no grievance shall lie against the Company in the event c£ any such dispute. New employees will be provided with a copy cf the benefit booklet.
All full-time employees of the Company are eligible for insurance on the following dates:
for life insurance, accidental death and dismemberment, semi-private hospital and ambulance expense insurance, on the first day of the month following the completion of his probation period;
for weekly indemnity insurance, on the first day of the month following the completion of his probation period:
for prescription drug expense insurance, optical and dental expense insurance, on completion of three (3) months of continuous full-time employment;
for long term disability insurance, on the completion of one (1)year of continuous full-time employment provided an employee has attained age 13 and has not attained normal retirement age.
Sharing of Costs
Effective September 19,h, 1997, the benefits outlined in the benefit booklet shall be provided to eligible employees at no cost to the employee.
Effective January 1, 1998 eligible employees shall contribute two percent (2%) of their gross earnings, as indicated on the employee's T-4 Statement of Earnings, towards the costs of the benefits outlined in the benefit booklet.
Effective January 1, 1999 eligible employees shall contribute two and one half percent (2 Yi%) of their gross earnings, as indicated on the employee's T-4 Statement of Earnings, towards the costs of the benefits outlined in the benefit booklet.
	(d)	Effective January 1, 2000 eligible employees shall contribute three percent (3%) of their gross earnings, as indicated on the employee's T-41 Statement of Earnings, towards the costs of the benefits as outlined in the benefit booklet.
	(e)	Effective January 1, 2001 eligible employees shall contribute three and one half percent (3 '/i%) of their gross earnings, as indicated on the employee's T-4I Statement of Earnings, towards the costs of the benefits as outlined in the benefit booklet.
C-4		Employees on leave of absence or other inactive status (excluding Short term disability and Workers Compensation) shall not be entitled to any benefit coverage.
C -5		Employees on layoff, benefits coverage will continue to the end of the calendar month in which the employee was laid off.
C - 6		Pension Plan
The Pension Plan and Company contributions which were in effect as of September IS1", 1997, will be continued for the term of this agreement.
22
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING ft 1
between
William Neilson Limited (hereinafter referred to as the "COMPANY")
and
Milk and Bread Drivers, Dairy Employees,
Caterers and Allied Employees Local Union 647
affiliated with the International Brotherhood of Teamsters,
Chauffeurs, Warehousemen and Helpers of America (hereinafter referred to as the ’UNION")
This Letter of Understanding shall confirm the provisions of the Assurance of Employment Which became effective September 19th, 1997.
Each full-time employee \Ao was on the seniority list as of September 19"’, 1997 and /lio elects to remain with the Company, shall be guaranteed a full-tiV* position with William Neilson Limited at it's Halton Pills facility, for the term of this Agreement, except:
in the event of Act of God; or
damage to the building or premises which is beyond the control of the Company; or
in the event of a labour dispute; or
in the event of 'do-pack" arrangements made by the Company.
Where it is necessary to reduce the number of employees within the bargaining unit as a result of "Co-pack" arrangements, such reduction shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Article 7.03 of the Collective Agreement. The Company guarantees that any full-time employee who is laid-off as a result of “Co-pack" arrangements, and who was on the seniority list as of September 19“*, 1997, shall be returned to work within twelve (12) months from the date of his lay-off. During such twelve (12) month period, the affected employea(s) shall continue to accumulate seniority.
During the period of lay-off referred to in the above-mentioned paragraph, the Company shall provide the affected employee(s) with a Supplemental Unemployment Insurance Benefit (SUE) ,subject to the terms and conditions of the applicable legislation.
23
No full-time employee who was on the seniority list as of September 19th, 1997 will be laid off as a result of 'Co-pack' arrangements after December 31, 1997.
24
LETTER OF UNDEF STANDING #2
betwe in
William Neilson Limited (hereinafterreferred to as the "COMPANY")
and
Milk and Bread Drivers, Dairy Employees,
Caterers and Allied Employees Local Union 647
affiliated with the International Brotherhood of Teamsters,
Chauffeurs, Warehousemen and Helpers of America (hereinafter referred to as the "UNION”)
Severance Payments
The Company recognizes that certain employees may prefer to sever their employment with William Neilson Limited and Js prepared to offer a severance package to such employees based on the formula which is hereinafter provided for. All severance payments shall be subject to deductions required at law.
Full-time Employees
Active full-time employees on the payroll as of September 19'", 1997, shall be paid the equivalent of four (4) weeks of pay for each year of service, based on their regular hourly rate of pay which was in effect on September 19th, 1997, Severance pay which is paid to an employee shall be deemed to include any severance payments required at law or by any other provision of any Collective Agreement.
Full-time employees who are within eighty-five (85) weeks of normal retirement age at the time of termination of employment shall be eligible for the above-mentioned severance payment except that such employee shall receive the lesser of that which he would have otherwise earned at his regular hourly rate for regular hours worked, based on his regular hourly rate of pay which was in effect on September 1 9th, 1997, had he remained at work until his normal age or $75,000,00,
Full-time employees who wish to accept the severance payment herein provided for must advise the Company in writing, not later than October 19“*, 1997, of their desire to terminate their employment and accept the severance payment. The offer of severance payment to employees shall not extend beyond such date.
Full-time employees who are in receipt of WCB benefits on September 19'\ 997, shall also be eligible for the severance payment as herein provided for. Such employee must advise the Company in writing, not later than October 19m, 1997, of their desire to terminate their employment and accept the severance payment. The offer of severance payment to employees shall not extend beyond such date. Such employee shall only receive the severance payment upon receipt of a declaration from the WCB that such employee is fit to return to their normal duties.
Full-time employees may elect to take early retirement if they are eligible. Such employees shall be eligible for the severance package. Benefit coverage will be provided for employees taking the early retirement option up to age 65 in accordance with the Milk Drivers and Dairy Employees Welfare Plan for Prescriptions, Visioncare, Dental and Life Insurance at the reduced retirement rate. (AD&D, S.T.D. and L.T.D do not apply to retirees.)
Part-time Employees
Active part-time employees on the payroll as of September 19'*’, 1997, and who have worked a minimum of the five hundred (500) hours within the eighteen (18) months before such date shall be paid the equivalent of four (4) weeks of pay for each year of service, based on their average weekly number of hours worked during the thirteen (13) weeks immediately preceding September 19"’, 1997. Severance pay which is paid to an employee shall be deemed to include any severance payments required at law or by any other provision cf any Collective Agreement.
Part-time employees with less than five hundred (500) hours shall be entitled to severance pay according to the Employment Standards Act.
Rules Governing Departure from the Business
Employees who elect to accept the severance payment herein provided for shall not be eligible for re-employment with William Neilson Limited.
Once an employee has made his election known to the Company, such election is irrevocable without the consent of the Company.
The timing of the departure of employees who have elected to leave shall rest with the Company, however no employees will be required to stay longer January 19*, 1998.
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #3
between
William Neilson Limited (hereinafter referred to as the 'COMPANY')
and
Milk and Bread Drivers, Dairy Employees,
Caterers and Allied Employees Local Union 647
affiliated with the International Brotherhood of Teamsters,
Chauffeurs, Warehousemen and Helpers of America (hereinafter referred to as the "UNION")
The Company recognizes that the wage concessions provided for in this Agreement place an economic hardship on the employees that must be addressed. Therefore, in recognition of such hardship, the Company shall pay:
(a)	all active full-time employees on the payroll as of September 19th, 1997 who elect not to sever their employment, a one-time payment of $2,500.00 less deductions required at law;
(b)	all part-time employees who have worked a minimum of five hundred (500) hours during the eighteen (18) months immediately prior to September 19m, 1997 who elect not to sever .their employment, a one-time payment of $1,000.00, less deductions required at law.
(c)	The payments referred to in paragraphs (al and (b) above shall be paid not later than November 19eh, 1997.
28