THIS AGREEMENT MADE AND ENTERED INTO THIS 7TH M Y OF MAY, 1990
BETWEEN:
SSTLg ENTERPRISES LIMIT1 CONFECTIONERY DIVISION {hereinafter called the "Company")
and
BREWERY, MALT AND SOFT DRINK WCRTOIS LOCAL 304
(hereinafter called the "Union")
The Ontario Labour Relations Board by Certificate dated the 5th of May 1980 has certified the union as the bargaining agent for the employees in the bargaining unit hereinafter described.
The purpose of this Agreement is to provide lawful and orderly collective bargaining relations between the Company and its enployees covered by the Agreement through the Union, to secure prompt and fair disposition of grievances, to eliminate interruption of work and to promote to the fullest extent possible, efficient and economical operation of the Company's business and to eaintain fair wages, hours and working conditions for the said employ***, all as net forth in this Agreement:
DCBC
ARTXCUE
I
II
III N
V
VI
VII
VIII
IX
X
XI
XII
XIII
XIV
XV
XVI
XVII
XVIII
RECOGNITION RELATIONSHIP MANAGEMENT RIGHTS NO STRIKES - NO LOCKOUTS REPRESENTATION GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE ARBITRATION DISCHARGE CASES SENIORITY
HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
WAGES AND CLASSIFICATIONS
JOB POSTING
PAID HOLIDAYS
VACATIONS
LEAVE OF ABSENCE
GENERAL
WELFARE
TERMINATION
WAGE SCHEDULE "A"
WAGE SCHEDULE "B"
WAGE SCHEDULE "Ctt WAGE SCHEDULE "D"
LETTERS OF UNDERSTANDING
PAGE
1
1
2
3
3
5
7
8 8
13
16
16
17
16
19
20 22
The Cospany recognizes the Union as the sole collective
bargaining agent for all its employees at 1500 Birchoount Road and 2220 Mldlai ‘	•	-	•
LI and Avenue, unit 50, Scarborough, Cntario, save and except supervisors, persons above the rank of supervisors, quality control employees, office staff, persons esployed for not more than 24 hours per week and students employed during rb« school vacation period.
Non-bargaining unit personnel will not perform any work normally performed by employees in the bargaining unit provided, however, that this clause shall not apply in the case of work of an experimental, instructional or educational nature or in cases of emergency or in cases of new equipment or processes. It is understood and agreed that the services of engineering and or technical staff will be required from tire to time, as a result of the above circumstances.
&
ARTICLE II - RE3AFICNSBZP
2.01 (a) All regular employees in the bargaining unit shall, upon
completion of the probationary period, become and remain members in good standing of the Union during the lifetime of this Agreement as a condition of employment.
(b) employees hired on a seasonal (temporary) basis shall as a condition of employment, pay Union EMes and furthermore shall sign an authorization in writing on a form provided by the Union to that effect.
(c) The Company will not discriminate against any employee and will ensure that employees are treated, during employment, without regard to their rice, colour, religion, sex, age or national origin. It is further understood and agreed that the use of the
masculine pronoun shall be deemed to include the feminine 7'/
throughout this Agreement.
All regular employees who have conpleted the probationary period and haw acquired seniority In the bargaining unit shall, as a condition of employment, sign an authorization in writing to	i
deduct whatever sum may be so authorized for initiation fees, 7 —- i union dues and for any assessments uniformly imposed on all	*
members by the union.' union dues shall be deducted weekly and the Company shall remit same to the financial Secretary of the Union together with a list of employees from whose pay deductions have been made. The said suss shall be accepted by the Union am the regular monthly dues and assessments of those esqjloyees who are or shall become members of the Union and the sums so deducted from non-members of the union shall be treated as their contribution towards the expenses of maintaining the Union. The Union dues will therefore be forwarded by the Company to the Union office as soon as possible after the end of* the month for which the deductions were made and in any case not later than 2 weeks following the end of the month in which deductions were made.
2
(b)	The Union agrees that the Company shall not be liable for any and all claims which may be made against the Company by employees for amounts deducted in accordance with the above.
2.03	Ttte Onion agrees that it, its officers, agents, representatives
ad. members, will not engage in union activities during working hours or hold meetings at any time on the premises of the Conpany except as authorized-by this Agreement.
ARTICLE III - MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
3.01	The Onion recognizes and acknowledges that the management of the plant and direction of the working force are fixed exclusively in the Company and without restricting the generality of the foregoing the Union acknowledges that it is the exclusive function of the Company to:
(a)	maintain order and efficiency;
(b)	hire, promote, demote, classify, transfer, suspend and retire employees, and to discipline or discharge any employee for just cause provided that a claim by an employee who has acquired seniority that he has been demoted, transferred, discharged or disciplined without just cause may be the subject of a grievance and dealt with as hereinafter provided;
(c)	make, enforce and alter, from time to time, reasonable rules and regulations to be observed by the employees; before altering any such rules, the Company will discuss same with the Union and give them the opportunity of making representationswith regard to such proposed alterations;
(d)	determine the nature and kind of business conducted by the Company, the kinds and locations of plants, equipment and materials to be used, the control of materials and parts, the methods and techniques of work, the content of jobs, the schedules of work, the number of employees to be employed, the extension, limitations, curtailment or cessation of operations or any part hereof, and to determine and exercise all other functions and prerogatives which shall remain solely with the Company except as specifically limited by the express provisions of this Agreement.
3.02	Without limiting the generality of the foregoing provisions, it is understood and agreed that breach of any of the Plant Rules and Regulations, or of any of the provisions of this Agreement, shall be sufficient cause for an employee to be disciplined up to ad. including discharge. However, nothing herein shall prevent an employee from grieving the appropriateness of the discipline and whether or not such breach took place.
3
ARTICLE M - NO STRIKES - NO LOCKOUTS
4.01	The Union agrees that during the lifetime of this Agreement there will be no strike, picketing, slowdown or stoppage of buck, either cccplete or partial, and the Cccpany agrees that there will be no lockout.
4.02	The Conp&ny shall have the right to discipline employees who take part in or instigats any strike, picketing, stoppage or slowdown, but a claim of unjust discharge or treatment may be the subject of a grievance and dealt with as provided in Article VI below.
4.03	Should the Union claim that a cessation of work constitutes a lockout, it may take the matter up with the Company as provided in Article VI below.
4.04	The Union further agrees that it will not involve any employee of the Company, or the Company itself in any dispute which may arise between any other employer and the employees of such other employer.
4.05	The Union agrees that it will not involve or interfere with any other installation of the Company, its affiliates or subsidiaries, in or as a result of any labour dispute it my have at the premises covered by this Agreement.
ARTICLE V - REPRESENTATION
5.01	The Company acknowledges the right of the Union to appoint or otherwise select Stewards, not to exceed ten Stewards, plus the Plant chairperson, and the Executive Board Member, making twelve in total. In the absence of the regular Steward, the Company further agrees to recognize individuals who shall be identified as alternate Stewards. The alternate will only be recognized in the absence of the designated Steward. Steward representation shall be as follows:
ENROBING & MOULDING CHOCOLATE, STARCH & COOKING GENERAL PROCESS FANCY PACK TAKE OFF
MAINTENANCE & BOILER ROOM WAREHOUSE & TRANSPORTATION AFTERNOON SHIFT MICNICHT SHIFT MIDLAND AVENUE
1 STEWARD 1 STEWARD 1 STEWARD 1 STEWARD 1 STEWARD 1 STEWARD 1 STEWARD 1 STEWARD 1 STEWARD 1 STEWARD
All stewards shall have completed the probationary period and shall be regular employees of the Coa^any during their term of office. The Coepany agrees to recognize a grievance committee consisting of the Plant chairperson and the Steward involved. Any problems resulting in a grievance will be handled by the Steward up to step mincer two of the grievance procedure, at which time they will be assisted by the Plant chairperson, or in his absence, the Executive Board Member.
4.
5.02	The name of each Steward and alternate, Wx> may be elected from time to time, and the designated area they will represent, shall be given to the Industrial Relations Administrator in writing and the Company shall not he required to recoonize anv such Steward until it has been so notified.
5.03	The Company undertakes to instruct all members of its supervisory staff to co-operate with the Stewards in the carrying out of the terms and requirements of this Agreement.
5.04	The Union undertakes to secure from its officers, Stewards and members, their co-operation with the Company and with all persons representing the Company in a supervisory capacity.
5.05	The right of stewards to leave their work without loss of pay to adjust grievances filed by employees in their own areas under Article VI is granted on the following conditions:
(a)	The Steward shall obtain the permission of his supervisor before leaving his work. The Supervisor may request a reasonable explanation for the Steward's absence from regular duties prior to being excused. such permission shall not be unreasonably withheld.
(b)	The time off shall be devoted to the prompt handling of grievances and shall be limited to the time required for , attending Grievance Step meetings and any preliminary meetings with the management.
(c)	The supervisor shall have the right to limit such time taken, so that it is not excessive.
(d)	The Union acknowledges that stewards and officers of the Union have their regular duties to perform.
5.06	On any negotiating meetings held with the Company for the renewal of this Agreement, the Union committee shall consist of the Plant Chairperson, Executive Board Manber and not more than six (6) Stewards and any such full-time Union Representative as the union desires. The Company agrees to pay employees on the said committee for lost time from work to attend negotiating meetings with the Company up to eight (_8) hours per day at the employee's normal hourly rate. " "n
5.07	The Company agrees that the Plant chairperson will be assigned to work on the day shift. Furthermore, the Company agrees to recognize the assignment of a permanent Steward appointed to both the afternoon and night shifts provided the shifts are operational.
5.09
5.09
5.10
2.iff-/
To ensure continuity of representation, the plant chairperson will be credited with super-aeniorlty foe the purpose of lay-off only, Hiis bees not mean that employees in such a position will be protected against bunping, transfers; or being displaced freo a particular position as a result of lack of work, rt dees rfon hewv*that the Plant chairperson will be protected only to the extent that ha will not be displaced from employment and placed on actual lay-off from the Cccqrany. This provision shall continue in force as long as the day shift remains operational. Furthermore similar consideration will be extended to the afternoon and night shift Stewards.
In . with the spirit of 5.06 above, the .	. agrees to
grant a paid educational leave m t ixceeding three (3) da	pec
year ; all Stewards (excluding aliernates) and Union of I the granting of such leave does not unreasonably :e wi h the efficient operation of th Company.
{Recognising the la^ortance of Industrial Peace within the establishment and the role of the Steward body, the Company encourages the Steward body to convene a meeting once every four (4) months for a duration of two (2) hours. Prior to conveninq meetings; the Plant Chairperson is expected to make a formal request for such meeting at least three (3) weeks in advance of the desired masting date to the Factory Personnel Manager. Thereafter, the Company wi 11 arrange for appropriate meeting facilities and will inform the Plant Chairperson accordingly.
Following the Stewards meeting, the Plant Chairperson wi 11 neet with the Factory Personnel Manager to review any issues that are not conducive to positive Labour/Management relations.
It is understood that off shift stewards attending the meeting do so on their own time.
ARTICLE VI - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
6.01	The parties to this Agreement are agreed that it is of the utmost la^ortance to adjust complaints and grievances as quickly as possible.
6.02	No grievance shall be considered:
(a)	unless it deals with a specific violation of the Collective Agreement,
(b)	wh#re the cl corns tances giving rise to it occurred ok originated more than five (5) full working days before the filing of the grievance at Step No. 1 of the grievance procedure.
6.03
6.04
6
Grievances properly arising under this Agreement shall be adjusted and settled as follows:
The employee shall present his complaint orally to his Supervisor with the assistance of the area Steward if requested. Following the presentation of the complaint, the Supervisor shall have one (1) working day in which to respond. If the answer is not satisfactory to the employee, the complaint will be reduced to writing on a form supplied hy the Union and approved by the Company and presented to the Industrial Relations Administrator as a formal grievance within two (2) working days following the rendering of the Supervisor's answer.
STEP NO. 1
The Industrial Relations Administrator shall convene a meeting with the appropriate management representative together with the aggrieved employee and the area Steward within two (2) working days of the presentation of the formal grievance. The management representative involved must reply in writing to the grievance within two (2) working days of the hearing at Step No. 1. If the answer is not satisfactory to the aggrieved employee then the matter m y be referred immediately to the Industrial Relations Administrator who shall forward the grievance to the appropriate department head.
STEP No. 2
within two (2) working days of the presentation of the grievance at this step, the department head shall convene a meeting with the aggrieved employee, the grievance committee and such other persons as management may desire. The department head will respond in writing to the grievance within two (2) days of the hearing at this step. If the answer is not satisfactory to the employee, the arievance will be submitted to the Factory Personnel Manager at any time within three (3) working days following the rendering of the department head's answer.
STEP NO. 3
A meeting will be convened within three (3) working days following receipt of the grievance with the grievance committee, the grievor, and a full-time Onion representative together with such other persons as management may desire. The management shall render its decision in writing within three (31 working days following the hearing at Step No. 3 of the grievance procedure.
If final settlement of the grievance is not reached at Step No. 3 and if the grievance is one which concerns the interpretation or alleged violation of this Agreement, the grievance may be referred by either party to a Board of Arbitration as provided in Article VII below at any time within ten (10) working days after the decision is given under Step No. 3 and if no such written request for arbitration is received within that time then the grievance shall be deemed to have been abandoned.
7
6.05	It is understood that the management may submit to the Onion any
complaint with respect to the conduct of the Union, its officers and aestef! or any complaint that a contractual obligation ur*dertiken by the Union In this Agreement has bean violated. Ay such ccsspUint shall be delivered in writing to the chairperson of the grievance ccacdttee where upon it shall be discussed at step No, 3 of the grievance	sdii:	filing a iti
settlement within two (2)	j d	ter the f Lit of rech
grievance, the Cotpany rry refer it to oitration i.n accordance with Section 6,04,
6.06	A Union Policy Grievance, which is defined as an alleged violation of-this Agreement concerning all or a substantial number of the employees in the bargaining unit in regard to which an individual employee could not grieve or an alleged violation where a group of employees have signified to the Company an intention to grieve, aay be brought forward by the Union Grievance Cocmittee in writing at step NO. 3 of the grievance procedure at any time within five (5) working days alter the circumstances giving rise to It occurred oc originated and if such grievance is not settled to the mutual satisfaction of the conferring parties, it may be referred to a Board of Arbitration in the same m e r as the grievance of an individual employee.
6.07	Any of the time limits set forth in this Article may te extended by mutual written Agreement between the parties.
7.01	Both parties to this Agreement agree that any dispute or grievance concerning the interpretation or alleged violation of this Agreement, which has bean properly carried through the provisions of ArtlcLe V7 above, and which has not teen settled, will be referred to a Board of Arbitration, at the request of either of the parties.
7.02	The Board of Arbitration will be composed of one person appointed by the Company, one parson appointed by the Union and a third person to act as chairperson chosen by the other two members of the Beard.
7.03	Within five (5) working days of the request hy either party for a Board, each party shall notify the other of the nan* of its appointee.
7.04	Should the person chosen hy the Company to act on the Board, and the person chosen by the Union, fail to agree on a third parson within seven (7) working days of the notification mentioned in 7.03, the Minister of Labour of the Province of Ontario will be asked to nominate a person to act as chairperson,
7.05	Che decision of a Beard of Arbitration or a majority thereof, constituted in the above manner, shall be binding an bath parties.
7.06
7.07
7.00
ARTICLE
8.01
8.02
ARTICLE 9.01 {a)
(b)
8
lb* Board of Arbitration shall not have any power to alter or change my of the provisions of this Agreement or to substitute any new provisions for my existing provisions, nor to give any decision inconsistent with the terms and provisions of this Agreement,
Each of the parties to this Agreement will bear the expenses of the arbitrator appointed by it and the parties will jointly bear the expenses If any of the chairperson.
No person shall be selected as arbitrator who has been directly involved in attempts to negotiate ok settle the grievance.
VIII- DISCHARGE CASES
The discharge of an employee during his probationary period or the discharge of a seasonal (temporary) employee shall not be the subject of a grievance. A claim ty an employee who has completed his probationary period that he has been discharged without just cause shall be treated as a special qrievance. The written grievance shall be submitted at Step-No. 3 of the grievance procedure within three (3) full working days after the employee is discharged. Such special grievance may be settled under the Grievance Procedure by:
(a)	Confirming the Company's action in dismissing the employee, or
(b)	Reinstating the employee with or without compensation for time lost,
or
(c)	By any other arrangement mutually agreed upon.
When an employee has been dismissed without notice, he shall have the right to interview his Steward for a reasonable period of time before leaving the Plant premises.
IX - SENIORITY
seniority as referred to in this Agreement, shall mean length of continuous service in the employ of the Company and shall	B
continue on a departmental basis with respect to layoff ok r^yllf
from layoff.
Notwithstandino the above, seniority with respect to vacation entitlement and application for ion postings, shall mean length of continuous service in tnr’mplgy 0f the Company and shall be applied on a plant-wide basis.
9.02
9.03
9.04
9.05
9.06
Regular employee* hired Into a wramip.-. poeiticn vUl be
considered probationary and shall have no seniority uattul the coBletion of si	Upon completion of the
probationary pe' seniority will be back dated to date of hire. £aplcy*es hired on a seasonal basis who have not completed om hundred and thirty-sewn (137) days of wcrk as set out in 9.03 are accepted as a regular employee are required to complete the regular probationary period of sixty (601 working days regardless of the number of days of work coexisted as a seasonal employee.
Saployees hired on a seasonal (temporaryl basis completing one hundred and thirty-seven (137) days of work within any twelve (12) month period shall be considered a regular employee with seniority, Seniority will be back dated one hundred and thirty-seven (137) working days exclusive of Saturdays and Sundays. Seasonal (temporary) employees shall not acquire seniority until after the completion of one hundred arid thirty-seven working day5 as described above,
The Company shall maintain a seniority list containing the names of all regular employees in its active employment, All such employees will be credited with seniority service equal to their length of continuous service In the employ of the Company, seniority lists will be revised twice each calendar year. A copy will be posted on the bulletin board and a copy will be given to the Plant chairperson and a copy will be forwarded to the ifnion Office. If employees do not challenge their seniority date within the first fifteen (IS) days from the date their nan* first appears on a seniority list, then they shall be deemed to have proper seniority standing.
Seniority shall be administered on a departmental basis and the following shall be the departments;
1.	Production, Plant Services and Returns
2.	Shipping, Receiving, Packaging and Work in Process
3.	Maintenance
4.	Boiler Root
5.	Sign shop
6.	Display and Sundries
Seniority shall accumulate In the following circumstances only:
la) When off work due to layoff, seniority will continue to accumulate for the first twelve (121 raonths or the length of the employee's service, whichever is shorter.
<b> When off work due to sickness or accident {work related or not) then seniority will continue to accumulate .	of the
itie of absence from work, taployeas advisin the Compan of Lr I	to return to work following a	i perio of
mca must be capable of performing regular duties without any
...trie_____ and/or aedifications. Furthermore, the .cqpany
shall not be obligated to provide employees with a training period a6 a result of a prolonged period of absence from work,
10
(c)	when off week due to personal leave of absence, then seniority will continua to accunrulate for the first thirty (30) days of such leave.
(d)	When absent on vacation with pay or on plant holidays.
(e)	When actually at work for the Conpany.
9.07	Seniority shall terminate and an employee shall cease to be employed by the Company when he:
(a)	Voluntarily quits his employment with the Company.
(b)	Is discharged and is not reinstated through the grievance procedure or arbitration.
V)
(c)	is off work due to layoff for a period of twelve (12)
months.	»
(d)	Is on layoff and fails to return to work, after receipt of registered letter of recall within the time specified as contained in 9.13.
(e)	Fails to return to work upon the termination of an authorized leave of absence unless a reason acceptable to the Company is given.
(f)	Accepts gainful employment while on leave of absence without first obtaining the consent o£ the Company in writing.
9.00 It shall be the duty of each employee to notify the Industrial Relations Department immediately in writing of ary change in address and/or telephone number. Notice required by the Company shall be deemed to be given, if forwarded by registered mail to the employee at the last address of which the Company had notice.
9.09 LAYOFF AND RECALL
Layoffs will be applied as follows:
(a)	Decreases in the working force shall be in accordance with the procedure set out in the following sections of this article.
(b)	In any layoff in excess of one (1) day or recall after such layoff, seniority shall receive primary consideration subject to the Company's right to maintain a competent working force and provided further, that all employees remaining at or being recalled to work shall then be qualified, in the opinion of the Coopany, to perform the work available. In the event of any layoff not exceeding one (1> day, the Company agrees to layoff seasonal (temporary) and probationary employees in the first instance provided the remaining employees are equally capable of performing the required duties to the Company's satisfaction.
11
(c) layoff# will first be applied by department starting with the particular job or Job* where there is insufficient work. The departments for layoff and cecall purposes are as contained in 9.OS.
(d)	Probationary and seasonal (temporary) employees, as determined by the Company who are working at the particular job affected, will be laid off first.
(e)	The meet junior employee working in the depacti&ent and shift affected shall receive notice of layoff which could result in transfers arising from the issuance of notice of layoff.
(f)	Notwithstanding (e) above, employees within wage rate
classification two (2) or two (2) lead hand (production) vho receive notice of Layoff will be entitled to displace the rest junior group one (1) production employee on tH^WeWt affected rather than accepting an undesired shift. Employees choosing to exercise this option may do so not later than three (3) days following receipt of the notice of layoff.
(g)	Employees attempting to claim a job by application of seniority do so ceccgnLsYng that in all cases, they are permitted to displace the most iunioc employee (on the shift affected in the first instance) cfe only exception to this being that which is expressed in 9.10(c).
9,10 (a) If he is not able to claim a job by seniority, in the same wags rate class, the above process will be repeated in successively lower wage rate classes until he either finds a job open to him hy seniority or becomes subject to layoff.
(b)	Prior to being placed on actual layoff and provided that another department is in an uperev position, or has seasonal (temporary) or agency employees actually working in that particular department, the laid off employee shall be provided with an opportunity of demonstrating his ability. If in the opinion of the oompery he can perform the job satisfactorily, then the seasonal (tea^ocacyl or agency employee will be displaced from our employ.
(c)	Prior to being placed on actual layoff and only as a last resort, a laid off employee shall be entitled to displace the mest junior employee in a successively higher wage rate classification in his own department or successively lower or higher wage rate classification In another department provided the laid off employee exercising this option has a miniima of two (2) consecutive months of experience on the actual job he is attempting to claim by application of seniority within the previous three (3) year period,
12
(d)	An employee claiminq a job In mother department by application of (b) qm/qc (c) above, shall not have any seniority rights within that department and will ha returned to his original department by order of seniority as dictated by recall;
9.11
The Company agrees to provide written notice of termination of employment aa prescribed under the Employment Standards Act with regard to termination of employment resulting from a layoff in the first instance only. Employees displaced by the application of seniority will be provided with a minimof ty/o (2) days written notice. Eaployees receiving written nottee just eomplete and return one (1) copy confirming his choice of options la) application of seniority or (b) acceptance of layoff. Failure to complete and return one (1) copy of the written notice within three (3) working days shall result in immediate layoff and employees shall disqualify themselves from the notice period and/or payment in lieu of notice.
9.12	Employees choosing to be laid off rather than accepting an
undesired shift, shall have the right to refuse a recall to work on an alternate shift, other than the shift being worked at the time of the layoff. This provision shall not exceed a period of twelve (12) months from the date of layoff.
9.13	Notice or recall to work shall be forwarded to laid off employees by registered mail. Employees must return to work within five (S) days of receipt of the registered letter of recall and/or not later than ten (10) days from the date of mailing of the registered letter of recall. The Company m y elect to expedite the recall process by telephoning the appropriate employees.
Wiere the Company is unable to contact an employee by pnone, the Plant Chairperson will be consulted for the purpose of verifying the Company's attempts to contact such employee and until such time as the employee actually reports for work, the vacancy will ha filled in accordance with established practice. Furthermore, the company will attempt to return laid off employees and employees transferred to other shifts as a result of layoff to the shift held prior to the imposition of layoff within two (2) weeks following a recall but in any event, not later than three (3) weeks provided, of course, sufficient openings exist on the said shift.
9.14	In rehiring after layoff, the reverse order shall apply, that is, the last to be laid off shall be the first to ha rehired. As jobs become available, employees may be recalled to a job opening which they held at the time of layoff (within 12 months).
9.15	Any employee claiming improper layoff must do so not later than tin (5) working days following tne effective date of layoff, otherwise the Company will not Be held liable for damages. The Company agrees that whenever possible, it will advise employees v\ho are being laid off for a period in excess of five (5) working days, with five (5) days notice. If the Company is unable to give notice, it will not be held liable.
13,
9,16 in the event that an eaployee covered by this	should be
ptcaoted to a position beyond the scope of this Agreement, then, within a period of six (6) months from the date of such promotion either tho employee or the Coopany can elect a transfer back to the bargaining unit in which event the employee shall be entitled to return to His forcer position and to displace any employee who sight have been transferred to fill his former position. In the event that the Company wishes to transfer such an eaploye# back to the bargaining unit after the said period of six (6) months, then he shall retain all seniority he had previously acquired and shall have added thereto the seniority accumulated while serving in such position beyond the scope of this Agreement, tut he shall not be permitted to nuke application for a vacancy until a period of twelve (1 2) months has elapsed following his transfer back to the bargaining unit. It is understood and agreed that except on the mutual Agreement of the parties, any employee so transferred will be classified as general help. In the event of a transfer back to tho bargaining unit during a period of layoff, seniority shall be the governing factor in determining the right to claim his former position.
ARTICLE X - HOURS OF WORK AND OVBtTXKB
The following paragraphs and sections are intended to define the normal hours of work per day or per week or of days of work per week.
ill
The normal work week for regular full-time employees she. consist of forty (40) hours per week comprised of five (5) eight (6) hour days, Monday througH Friday inclusive.
There shall be one (1) ten (10) minute paid rest peeled in the first half of each shift and one (1) twenty-five i25) minute paid lunch period to be granted at a time or times selected by the' _ /Z company.	%( ^1/
When overtime lasts for two (2) hours or core, empLoyees shall be entitled to one (1) fifteen (15) minute paid rest period. This rest period my be taken at the end of tHe regular shift provided, the employee works two (2) hours or more.
The Company my require employees to perform overtime work in excess of their regularly assigned hours.
One and one half (1 1/21 times the employee's regular basic hourly rate for:
(a)	all hours worked in excess of eight (8) hours on a normal 'work day.
(b) the first eight (3) hours worked on a Saturday,
(c) all hours worked prior to his regular starting time
14
(d)	the first eight (8) hours worked on the sixth day.
yl
(ill Double tine (2X) the enplqyee's regular basic hourly rate for:
(Ai

^(a) ail hours worked in excess of eight (8) hours on a Saturday. !b) all hours worked on a Sunday.
0
(c)	all hours worked on the seventh day.
(d)	all hours worked Ln excess of eight {8) hours on the 0 sixth day.
(e)	all hours worked on a paid holiday.
In both (i) and (ii) above, any hours that fall within the normal work week are excluded.
The Company may require employees to work on a shift basis. The Company shall pay a shift premium of forty (40) cents per hour for all hours worked by an employee in a day when the majority of his regularly assigned hours fall between 4:00 p.m. and 12:00 midnight and of ffosfcjj-five (45) cents per hour for all hours >4i/ worked by an empires in a day when the majority of his regularly ' ’assigned hours fall between 12:00 midnight and 8:00 a.m. The said shift premiums will not be included in calculating overtime pay. The Company will advise employees as soon as possible of any shift change. Effective April 1, 1991, the shirt premiums » shall be increased to forty-five (45) cents and fiftv-five (551 .cents for afternoon and night shifts, respectively. ’Effective’ 'Jkpril 1, 1992, the shift premium shall be increased by a further five (5) cents.
An employee who has completed his regular shift and leaves the premises and is then rec^^^d to work, shall receive a minimum of tour (4) hours pay at time and one half of the eqplagee^ss regular straight time hourly rate. The Company reserves the right to
assign additional work to be the equivalent far compensation received under this section.
MW
u
10.07
An employee reporting for work as usual on a regular working day, unless notified not to report and for whom no work at his regular job is available, shall be offered at least eight (8) hours enjoyment in other work at the employee's regular hourly rate or, at the Conpany's option, will be paid eight (8) hours pay at the employee’s regular hourly rate in lieu of such work. This provision shall not apply if the failure to receive notice was caused by reason of a strike or other work stoppage, machinery breakdown, fire, flood, power failure or other like cause, furthermore, this provision shall not apply In cases where employees fail to provide the Industrial Relations Department with their correct telephone numbers.
15.
10.08	Any employee who for the convenience of the Coupany, Is
temporarily transferred to mother job for which the rate of pay is different from that in effect for such employee's regular job, shall be paid while so employed as follows:
(a)	If the rate of pay for the job to which he is transferred is less than the eirplqyee’s regular pay, he shall receive his am higher rate of pay.
(b)	If the rate of pay for the job to which he is transferred is higher than the eirplqyee’s regular pay, he shall receive the higher rata of pay for the job to which he is temporarily transferred.
10.09	An employee v\ho is transferred to another jab as a result of a layoff, breakdown of rrachinery or other like cause shall be paid the applicable job rate while so
10.10	Overtime - except in the case of emergency breakdown of
equipment, overtime after the completion of an eight (8) hour shift	ha voluntary. However, employees will co-operate and
there will W“fflrtoncerted or collective refusal to work aucn overtime as be required to complete the work schedule for the shift. If there are insufficient volunteers, then the Company shall select the most junior enployee in the department concerned, who is capable of performing the task requires.
employed.

10.11(a) The Union recognizes the problems of distributing overtime in a factory operation composed of a wide variety of product lines, production processes and job occupations, to the extent practicable under such circumstances, the company will distribute overtime fairly among the employees who are scheduled to produce the work required to meet the daily schedule.
(b) In the event that overtime is scheduled in the form of an
extension of the regular shift, the Company will endeavour to distribute the overtime amongst regular employees rather than seasonal (temporary) employees who could be working on the particular line where the overtime is actually scheduled.
10.12	In the event that overtime is scheduled in the form of an additional shift, for instance, a Saturday or Sunday, such overtime will fce offered to employees in order of seniority, however, on a rotational basis, provided they are capable in the opinion of the Company, of performing the work required. This clause shall apply only to those employees viio are working in the department and wage class, in which the work is required.
10.13	In the event that an enployee declines overtime, or is absent
when overtime is available, the overtime hours will be recorded againet the employee's name as if the hours ware actually worked.

t> 6 3 9~d
10.14	Notwithstanding sections 10.01 and 10.02, a Continental Work w«k applicable only to the plant services group and specifically to those who are employed as either a belt line cleaner or a machine cleaner will be implemented as required. Employees scheduled to work on either a Saturday or Sunday as part of their normal work week shall receive a premium of $3.00 per hour in addition to their regular rate of pay far all hours worked on a Saturday or Sunday when so scheduled. Effective April 1, 1592 the premium will be increased to $3.SO.
Employees hired prior to December 1, 1987 will not be required to work on a Continental Shift unless the/ voluntarily accept such assignment.
ARTICLE XI - URGES AND OASSIPICATICNS
11.01	Schedules A. B, C, and D attached hereto are hereby made a part of this Agreement.
11.02	where any rew classifications are created during the life of this Agreement, the applicable rate will be discussed with the Union.
11.03	An employee injured on the job and requiring medical attention by a doctor shall be paid for the balance of his shift in which the injury occurred. If the use of an ambulance is determined to be necessary by the Medical Department, the Company agrees to pay the difference between the actual cost and the amount paid by O.H.I.P.
ARTICLE XII - JOB POSTING
Vacancies as determined by the Company which last for forty-five (45) working days or longer, including Lead Hand, except vacancies in Group One shall be posted on the bulletin board Cor a period of three (3) working daysT“"Vacancies created by the application of Article IX (Layoff and Recall) of this Agreement 'shall not be posted. Copies of job bulletins will be provided to the Plant chairperson. Only regular employees will be permitted to make application for any*vacancies, 'postings will specify the shift of the vacancy.
12.02 The Company shall within seven (7) working days after the posting has been taken dam, notify the successful applicant who shall be placed on the job not later than one (1) week following such notification. If the employee is not placed on the job within that period, he shall receive the higher rate of pay immediately.
This section does not apply in the case of advance posting where the actual date of the vacancy has not taken place. In the case of advance postings, the conpany will provide effective dates of such vacancies.
12.01
12.03	f Seniority shall be the governing factor provided that in the opinion of the Company, the employee has the qualifications to ■ perform the job satisfactorily.
17
12.04
12.05
12.06
12.07
12.08
Nothing herein shall prevent the Company ftOQ hiring persons from outside the bargaining unit when no qualified employee applies. Any vacancy can be filled at the discretion of the Company on a
tevofary oasis while carrying out the provisions of this
article.
Nothing herein shall require the company fca post more than two (2) vacancies {including the original vacancy) as a result of the occurrence of the original vacancy, and all subsequent vacancies
which may occur shall be filled at the discretion of tho Company.
Employees receiving a job through the job posting system, shall not be permitted to mako further applications for vacancies until a period of six (6) months has passed from the most recent appointment unless applying for a higher wage rate classification.
Employees placed on a job as a result of this section who ace not capable of performing the work in the opinion of tho Conpany, after a brief period of familiarization, shall be returned to their former position and will displace any other employee who might haw been transferred to his former position.
If following a brief period of familiarization as mentioned in 12.07 the employee is deemed to be capable of performing the work in the opinion of the Company, then all seniority previously acquired while working in another department shall be transferred to the new department where tho job vacancy occurred and for which he was accepted.
12.09	Failing to fill permanent vacancies in accordance with the above procedure, temporary employees shall be considered for such positions provided they are qualified for the position in the Company's opinion prior to hiring from the outside. The filling of vacancies as described herein will be in	with the
employees' hire date. It is fu understood that upon completion of the tionacy |	1 as contained in 9.0
seniority w i11 be back dated to the :irst day of change o employment status.
ARTICLE XIII - PAID BOLIEAYS
13.01	The following twelve (12) days will be considered as paid holidays:
New Year's Day, January 2nd. Good Friday, Easter Monday, victoria,. Day, Dominion Day, civic Holiday, Labour Day, Thanksgiving Day, December 24th, Christmas and Boxing Day.
All the above paid holidays will be paid for regardless of the day on which they fall, provided that:
(a)	The eaployee has ccapleted the probationary period prior to the holiday(s) concerned.
(b)	The employee is present on the normal working day inaediately before ana after the holiday(s).
18.
(c)	The employee has obtained permission in writing from management for leave of absence which would include any paid holiday(s), however, if such leave of absence exceeds one week (i.e. 5 working days) payment for the paid holiday(s) will not be granted..
(d)	An employee can prove he was sick or that it was inpossible to attend work. In case of doubt, the employee's attendance record will be the governing factor.
(e)	Laid off employees, who are recalled to work on either of the first two (2) working days imnediately following the paid holiday(s) and provided such employee actually works the full day on which he was recalled.
(f)	An employee works on the working day actually preceding the paid holiday(s) and is laid off on the working days actually succeeding it.
(g)	Seasonal (temporary) employees will be afforded payment for Statutory Holiday(s) only, as identified under the applicable legislation in the Employment standards Act.
(h)	In the event that one of the above listed paid holiday(s) falls during a period for which an employee is receiving weekly indemnity, then, the employee shall receive the difference between the amount received while on weekly indemnity and regular earnings for the day in question.
In the event that one of the above named paid holiday(s) falls during an employee's vacation, then by mutual Agreement between the Company and the employee, the employee shall receive an extra da/'s pay in lieu of the holiday, or an extra day with pay shall be added to the employee's vacation. In the event that any of the named paid holiday(s) falls on a Saturday then it shall be celebrated on the Friday, and if such holiday falls on a Sunday then it shall be celebrated on the Monday. Should the government proclaim an additional statutory Holiday, then such holiday shall replace December 24th.
ARTICLE XIV - VACATIONS
14.01	Entitlement shall be as follows:
1	week	4%	pay
2	weeks	4%	pay
3	weeks	6%	pay
4	weeks	8%	pay
5	weeks	10%	pay
6	weeks	12%	pay
19
14.02	Vacation pay will be based on earnings with the Company during the twelve (12) months inmediately preceding June 30th In the vacation year, vacation pay will be paid out, on or about July 1st with the exception of vacation actually taken prior to this date.
14.03	Vacations must be taken in the calendar year in which the vacation is due (January 1 to December 31).
14.04	Vacations will be taken at a time or tines most convenient to the company, however, employees will receive two (2) consecutive weeks of vacation durino the month of July. The Company will endeavor to provide the-last two (21 weeks of July, however, the needs of the business will dictate actual vacation time off.
14.05	Entitlement to three (3), four (4), five (5) or six (6) weeks of vacation will be based on the anniversary date of the employee, that is, if an employee completes the necessary service requirement at any point in the vacation year, he shall then be qualified for the appropriate weeks of vacation regardless of the June 30th date.
ARTICLE XV - LEAVE OP ABSENCE
IS.01
15.02
15.03
The Company may grant leave of absence without pay to any employee for legitimate personal .reasons. In order to be considered valid, the employ^"must submit a written request for leave to the Industrial Relations Administrator. In the event that the Company fails to respond to the written request for leave of absence within a period of one (1) week from the date the initial reouest was submitted to the Employee Relations Supervisor, the' request for leave will be automatically granted.
The Company will grant leave of absence without pay to not more . than three (3) employees to attend Union conventions and /aC conferences for a period or periods not exceeding ten (10) Bays' for any one employee in any one calendar year, provided that in the opinion of the Company the granting of such leave of absence does not interfere with the efficient operation of the Plant.
The Company shall pay an employee who is required for Juj^ Service and or subpoenaed as a Crown	for each^Jay of
such service, the difference between his straight time hourly rate for the number of hours he would normally have worked on that day and payment he received for Jury Service or Witness Service. The employee must furnish proof as to the time served on Jury Duty or as a Crown witness and the amount of pay received therefore. Pay employee called for Jury Service or as a Crown witness and who is temporarily excused from attendance at the Court oust report for work if a reasonable period of time remains to be worked on his shift. The above will not apply to employees who are the accused.	/} —.
Ai employee required to be absent from work for the purpose of attending the funeral of his father, step-father, mother, step-mother, father-in-law, mother-in-law, spouse, child, step-child, brother, sister, grandmother or grandfather shall be granted a leave of absence covering the required time off up to and including the day of the funeral. Where any of such days of required absence falls on a scheduled working day for such employee, he shall be paid a bereavement allowance for each such day, but up to a maximum of three (3) days computed by multiplying his regular straight time hourly rate times tho nustoer of hours he would have worked or by eiaht hours, whichever the lesser. In the event of the death of an enplcyee's brother-in-law or sister-in-law, then he shall be granted one (1) working day leave of absence frcmhis employment without loss of pay, provided he uses such time for the purpose of attending the funeral. In the event that an employee does not attend the funeral of his mother or father only, he will be entitled to one (1) working d^'s leave of absence with p^.
An employee will not receive bereavement allowance when it duplicates pay or any other allowance received for time not worked tor any other reason. Time lost thus compensated for will not be counted as hours worked for purposes of determining overtime or premium pay liability.
15.05 In the event that any leave of absence is used for a purpose
other than the purpose for which the leave was granted, then the employee may be discharged.
ARTICLE XVI - GENERAL
16.01	If the union desires to post notices in the plant, such notices shall be first submitted in duplicate to the Factory Personnel Manager for approval. Neither the Company nor the Union shall make any change in such notice after such approval and no notice shall be posted except on such boards which shall be provided by the Conpany. There shall be no distribution or posting by employees of pamphlets, advertising or political matter, cards, notices or any other kind of literature upon the Ccnpary's property, except as herein provided, without permission of the Company.
16.02	If the full-time representative of the Union wishes to speak to union Stewards in the plant about a grievance or other official Union business, he shall advise the Factory Personnel Manager, who shall then call the Steward or Stewards to the office where they may confer privately. These talks will be arranged so that they will not unreasonably interfere with the efficient operation of the Company.
Both parties hereto will co-opecate to the fullest extent reasonably passible toward the prevention of accidents and the promotion of the safety and health of the employees. It is hereby agreed that it shall be the duty of employees to make use of all protective devices and equipment made available by the Company. To further these aims a safety committee shall be established conposed of at least two (2) employees and two (2) management personnel, such connittee shall meet not less than the number of times prescribed under the O.H. and S.A.
16.04
16.05
16.06
16.07
21
Pay days shall be each Thursday and the coBgwujy will endeavour to distribute pay cheques around the time of lunch breaks for ^—> E^garxirw on days and afternoons. Employee* working on Ole -SrcgiQhBrivill receive their pay cheques during their shift ocsEencing on the Wednesday with the only exception being, a week in which a statutory Holiday occurs and in that case, pay day shall be Thursday.
la) Tte Company will pay 1001 to a aaxinun of $60,00 towards the. cost of Safety Shoes purchased by regular employees v\ho have completed the probationary period, to a maximum of one (1) pair per year (12 months from data of purchase). Effective April 1, 1991, ($65.00) ard ($70.00) effective April 1, 1992,
(b) Employees making use of the Safety Shoe Allowance nay do so only with the understanding that this benefit is strictly for use in the plant. In addition to the normal safety shoe allowance, persons employed as Cook "A", MBN or Cooks Helper and Plant Serviceswill be provided with slip on mbbers where required.
(c)	The wearing of Kearinq Protection equipment is irandatory for any employee working in arias where the noise level is ninety (90) decibels or greater. Employees required to 'work in such areas shall be provided at no cost to the employee, within each twelve (12) month period, two (2) pair of ear plugs or one (1) pair of ear muffs only for employees in certain areas. Should any employee require further hearing protective equipment, they shall be responsible for payment of"same, under no circumstances will employees be permitted to work in areas which require the wearing of protective equipment unless they are in corrpliance with this section, Employees not complying with the above shall be dealt with severely.
The Company agrees to continue its present practice concerning the supply and laundering of uniforms, Regular employees will be provided with two (2) uniforms per week with the exception of those working in Starch, Chocolate, or Moulding departments and in their case, the number of uniforms issued will exceed two (2) in the vredc as deemed necessary by the Ccmpany. The present practice in regards to Maintenance will remain unchanged Uniforms a:	tine petty oi the mpany and ai no time v ill th<
wearing of uniforms outside of the building be tolerated rfith tl exception <	. employ* who are require* to work cutside
Employees refusing to comply with this section, will be^. disciplined.
(a)	An employee required to wak two (2) or more hours overt!® in excess of bis normal work day vho has not been notified of such overtime the shift previous, shall be pard a !${§»}. allowance
of $4.50, ($5.00 & ----6$---------- ^	72930+?
(b)	Truck Drivers who are working outside a thirty (30)
radius of the plant shall be provided with a meal allowance -^wW $7.50. ($8.00 effective April 1, 1992). Those not working outside of a thirty mile radius shall be entitled to the meal \fVr\J allowance provided"under subsection (a) of this section.
"pef
22,
16.08	Lead Hands -will receive forty-five (45) cents per hour over the highest rate in the group the/ lead. Effective April 1, 1991, the premium shall be increased to fifty-five (55) cents.
16.09	An employee who, at the request of his Supervisor, trains another employee will be paid a Training Allowance of twenty (20) cents per hour. Effective April 1, 1991, the premium shall be increased to fifty (50) cents.
16.10	Employees absent from work for a period of three (3) days ok more resulting from illness or accident are required to:
(a)	Notify the Company's Nurse of their intention to return to work by telephone one (1) day prior to the actual date of return.
(b)	Provide the Company's Nurse with a certificate from a physician confirming foil recovery from the illness ok accident which caused the period of absence.
Any employee not conplying with this section shall not be permitted to return to active employment nor will the Company be obligated to provide work or payment of wages as a result of the employee's noncompliance.
16.11	A tool allowance of $200.00 will be provided yearly to all ( maintenance personnel employed in groups 3, 4, 5 or 6, such ‘ allowance is intended for the replacement of worn or broken tools only, and will not be paid if the replacement of the tool is covered under the manufacturers warranty. Furthemre, the allowance will be paid upon submission of receipt for tools purchased for industrial use. Payment will be made in December of each year.
ARTICLE XVII - WELFARE
17.01
17.02
17.03
Seasonal (temporary) and probationary employees are not entitled to any of the benefits set forth under this article.
The Company will continue its present practice regarding payment of premiums of the benefit package recognizing that only regular , employees who are on active-payrill will be eligible to-receive / the benefit package as outlined. Furthemre, the continuation _ j of benefit premiums payable by the Company shall cease at the ’ | expiry of a seventy-two (72) week period 'for those employees who i are disabled from work as a result of sickness ok accident.
The Conpany will be responsible for the payi Ontario Health Insurance Plan, on the sai ' above (17.02).
int of premiums for I .sis as described I
17.04
17.06
17.07
Ttve Company will be responsible for tho payment of premiums for the Group insurance Plan having a $10.00 single and $20.00 family deductible on the sane basis as described above (17.02). There is rco-insurance feature on drugs, hcvever, the balance of the plan remain# at $0/20 co-insurance with the understanding that* the drug plan covers only drugs that require a prescription free a qualified doctor to be obtained. Effective April 1, J-SSl. the co-insurance feature on the balance of the plan will be deleted. Effective dune 1, 1990, Life insurance will be increased to $23,000,00, and effective April 1, 1991, it shall be increased to $26,000.00 and increased tq^Q-ilOO.GO effective	/
A*clL 1, 1992. <72 3? 016/Cj O	'YG'b
The current pension plan will be suspended upon ratification and a successor plan shall be implemented effective June 1, 1992 providing for a benefit of liO.OO per month per year of credited service with the understanding that the plan does not give credit for service prior to the effective date of this plan. This benefit shall apply to all regular employees having a minim of om year of continuous service in the employ of the Company as tr!
June 1, 1992. Credited service is defjj&e^as pne thousand and eight hundred (1800) hours worked.
efitted aa on<
77-1
7%-3>
The current accrued benefit as at the date of suspension of the Contributory Plan will be converted into individual annuities for active plan ©embers which value will be at least six (6) percent greater than the previous formula generated under th®
Contributory Plan.
*****
The Weekly Indemnity Insurance Plan will continue to por/lde for seventy-two (72) weeks of entitlement, it being understood that the secomd fifteen (15) weeks of the seventy-two (72) week period will be carved out and payable through the U.I.C. with the usual qualifiers. Weeks of insurance payable through the carrier provides payment of 66 2/3% of the employes's normal weekly pay to a gaxlmjn^of u.I.C. insurable benefit. Such payment to be made rJf"Seeoc dance with the plan commencing the first day of accident, the first day of hospitalisation, the fourth day of sickness and continuing Lor a maximum period of seventy-two (72) weeks (18-15-42). The Union agrees that the Company shall retain 100% of the U.I.C. rebates coming from the qu-alifications of the said plan	„ @£,7
Effective June 1, 1990, the Dental Plan will be upgraded to provide for payments in accordance with the 1989 Q.D.A. fee schedule. Effective April 1, 1991, payments will be made in accordance with the 1990 O.D.A. fee schedule and effective April 1, 1992, the Plan will be upgraded to the 1991 O.D.A. rates.
Sasic Plan:
$1,000.00 maxim per year
$25,00 single and $50.00 family deductible
80/20 coinsurance	.
V
-Z-
24
17. OS
Major Restorative [riders 1-2-4) Perio/Endo
-	$1,000.00 oaxiBEisi per year
-	50/50 co-insurance
Effective June 1, 1990, the Coapany will provide a standard Vision Care Plan at $75.00 every twenty-four (24) months for
7<^91
payment towards prescription eye glasses or contact lenses.
"	' 1 April 1, 1992, the Plan will be upgraded to $100.0
Effective J.	.	. .
every twenty-four months.
ARTICLE XVIII - TERmATXCN
18.01	This Agreement shall be in full force and effw^Mva from April 1.
1990 through to and ,infludinf Mnrph 31. 1993:and shall continue lit iulue ft an y«aL to year unless in any year not mote than
ninety (90) day., and not less than thirty (30) days, before its date of termination, either party shall furnish the other with notice of termination of or notice of desire to bargain for renewal of this Agreement.
25.
SWNE> AT TORONTO, ONEWUO THIS 4TH CAY Of JUNE, 1990.
WAGE SCHEDULE "A" PRODUCTION OCCUPATIONS
GROUP I Packer
Case Filler	'
Checker
Enrober Placer/Take-0£f
General Helper Mould Feeder Nut Sorter weigher Swirl
Apr, 1/90 Aoc. 1/31
11.24
11.24
11.24
11.24
11.24
11.24
11.24
11.24
11.24
11.94
11.94
11.94
11.94
11.94
TOT’
11.94
11.94
11.94
Apr. 1/92
12.64
12.64
12.64
12.64
12.64 “12764
12.64
12.64
12.64
GROUP II
Machine Operators! Cut-Roll Wrap-King BOX
Overwrap wrapping Jelly STicer Mogul Placec/Sander
11.52	12,23
11.53	12.23
11.53	12,23
11.53	12.23
11.53	1-2.23
11.53	12.23
11.53	12.23
12.93
12.93
12.93
12.93
12.93
12.93
12.93
GROUP III
Cooks HeLpec Trucker
Utility Person
12.00
12.00
12.00
12.70
12.70
12.70
13.40
13.40
13.40
GROUP IV
Cook "B"	12.23	12.93
Mogul Assistant	12.23	12.93
GROUP V
Extrudsr/Rhscn Operator	12.35	13.05
Mould Haksr	12.35	13.05
13.63
13.63
13.75
13.75
27
WAGE SCHEDULE "A" PRODUCTION OCCUPATIONS (CONTINUED)
Apr, 1/90
Apr. 1/91
Ag£2_l/92
GROUP VI
Operators:
Mogul
Mixe r{Chocola te)
Moulding
Enrobing
Peppermint Pattie Latini Nut Roaster
12.51	13.21
12.51	13.21
12.51	13.21
12.51	13.21
12.51	13.21
12.51	13.21
12.51	13.21
13.91
13.91
13.91
13.91
13.91
13.91
13.91
GROUP VII
Cook A
Refiner Operator Bean Roaster Senior operator Enrobing Moulding Mogul Turtle
12.75	13.45	14.15
12.75	13.45	14.15
12.75	13,45	14.15
12.75	13.45	14.15
12.75	13.45	14.15
12.75	13.45	14.15
12.75	13.45	14.15
GROUP VIII
Continuous Fondant Continuous Caramel
13.07	13.77	14.47
13.07	13.77	14.47
Starting rates for regular employees shall be 35 cents per hour less than the above rates in all categories until completion of the probationary period.
Seasonal employees shall receive 96 cents per hour less than the above rates in all categories far the entire duration of their employment as seasonal employees.
29.
WAGE SCHEDULE ”B"
WAREHOUSING OPERATIONS
Aor, 1/90 Apr. 1/91 Apr. 1/92
Stockkeeper
Order Picker Order Assembler
4
GROUP 2	/
Shipper/Receiver Lift Truck operator
12.23	12.93
12.23	12.93
12.23	12.93
12.66	13.36
12.66	13.36
13.63
13.63
13.63
14.06
14.06
GROUP 3
Senior Shipper	13.07	13.77	14.47
GROUP 4
Trucker Driver	13.38	14.08	14.78
GROUP 5
Tractor Trailer	14.87	15.57	16.27
Driver
Starting rates for regular employees shall be 35 cents per hour less than the above rates in all categories until conpletion of the probationary period.
Seasonal employees shall receive 96 cents per hour less than the above rates in all categories far the entire duration of their employment as seasonal employees.
t
29
SCHEDULE "C"
MAINTENANCE OCCUPATIONS Apr, 1/90 Apr. 1/91 Apr. 1/92
GROUP 1
Maintenance Helper	12.51	13.21	13.91
GROUP 2
Set-Up Man Wrapping	12.75	13.45	14.15
Machine
GROUP 3
Facilities Operator
Area Mechanic Electricians
17.64	18.34
17.64	18.34
17.64	18.34
19.04
19.04
19.04
GROUP 4
Senior Mechanic	17.92	18.62
senior Electrician	17.92	18.62
19.32
19.32
GROUP 5
Senior Facilities	18.68	19.38	20.08
Operator
GROUP 6
Electro mechanical Technician	Level 1	18.03
Level 2	18.72
Level 3	19.33
Level 4	20.24
18.73
19.42
20.03
20.94
19.43
20.12
20.73
21.64
Starting rates tor regular employees shall be 35 cents per hour less than the above rates in all categories until completion of the probationary period.
Seasonal employees shall receive 96 cents per hour less than the above rates in al 1 categories for the entire duration of their employment as seasonal employees.
30
GROUP 1
shop Decorator GROUP2
Laundry Attendant
GROUP 3-A
Plant Services Belt Cleaner
GROUP 3-0 Machine Cleaner
GROUP4
Silk Screen operator "B"
GROUP 5
Silk Screen operator "A" Maintenance Man
SCHEDULE "D”
MISCELLANEOUS OPERATIONS Ape. 1/90 Apr. 1/91 Ayr. 1/92
11.24	11.94	12.64
11.53	12.23	12.93
12.00
12.00
12.35
12.75
14.07
14.87
12.70
12.70
13.05
13.45
15.57
15.57
13.40
13.40
13.75
14.15
16.27
16.27
Starting rates for regular employees shall be 35 cents per hour less than the above rates in all categories until completion of the probationary period.
Seasonal employees shall receive 96 cents per hour less than the above rates in all categories for the entire duration of their employment as seasonal employees.
June 4, 1990
Nr. Cameron Nelson Business Agent
Brewery, Malt & Soft Drink Workers Local 4304 238 Jane Street Toronto, Ontario M6S 321
Dear Mr. Nelson:
RE: LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING (DATED NOVEMBER 12. 1987)
SENIORITY STATUS OF TEMPORARY EMPLOYEES (having a minimum of one year of seasonal employment)
In keeping with our Agreement reached during the recent set of negotiations, persons hired as a seasonal/temporary employee will be credited with Seniority standing (for the purpose of layoff or recall only.) Their names and starting dates will then form a "Temporary Elnployee" seniority list.
PROVISOS
seniority Rights Defined:
Temporary employees do not have the same seniority rights as permanent full-time employees, i.e. burrping Options and shift preference etc., nor is the Company obligated to return the temporary to a shift held prior to layoff.
In assigning this particular group with a "seniority" date, it only suggests that temporary employees are provided with eights of recall provided there are nu issues of concern related to performance either directly or indirectly.
.n matters of layoff/recall whenever possible and where notice of '.ayoff permits, temporary employees will be laid off and recalled by seniority provided the senior temporary employee is qualified, in the opinion of the Company, to perform the remaining work.
My teafsorary employee refusing to accept a wrk assignment, transfer, etc., shall be removed from the temporary seniority list and termination will result.
Teaporary enployees shall be deemed terminated during each period of layoff as defined under the Employment Standards Act "Definite TenvTask", however, this shall not interfere with their rights to recall as defined.
...2
Me. Cameron Nelson Page 2.
June 4, 1990
Ihe above is not Intended to circumvent the Collective Agreement in any way# shape or form nor is it intended to provide any benefits other
than those specified above.
R. Sleva
Factory Personnel Manager
RS/jr
Jura 4, 1990
Mr. Cameron Nelson Business Agent
Brewery, Malt & Soft Drink workers
Local 1304
238 Jane Street
Toronto, Ontario M6S 3Z1
Dear Mr. Nelson:
RE: LETTER Of UNDERSTANDING ACTIVE PAYROLL (17.02)
Regular employees shall be deemed to be on active payroll when:
(a)	Actually at work for the Company.
(b)	A period of employment is interrupted by illness or accident which has necessitated the employee to absent himself from work. This however, shall not apply to laid off employees who are not able to comply with an official recall to work as a result of illness or accident.
(c)	Absent on vacation or on paid holidays.
Sincerely,
R. Sleva
Factory Personnel Manager
RS/jr
June 4, 1990
Mr. Cameron Nelson Business Agent
Brewery, Malt s Soft Drink Workers
Local #304
238 Jane Street
Toronto, Ontario M6S 3Z1
Dear Mr. Nelson:
RE: LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING (DATED NOVEMBER 12, l?g7?
DISCIPLINARY RECORD	/
Except in cases of suspension, or in cases of assault or theft, an employee's previous record will not be referred to after a period of three (3) years.
Sincerely,
R. Sleva
Factory Personnel Manager
RS/jr
June 4, 1990
He. Cameron Nelson Business Agent
Brewery, Malt & Soft Drink workers
Local 1304
23B Jane Street
Toronto, Ontario MSS 3Z1
Dear Mr. Nelson:
RE: LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING (DATED NOVEMBER 12, 1987) JOB POSTING
The parties have agreed that in certain circumstances where attendance Is relevant to a job posting, the Company can legitimately consider en employee's absenteeism record in determining whether an employee la qualified. Further, in jobs where the level of supervision is lessened or responsibility higher, the Company can legitimately consider an employee's discipline record as it relates to work performance in determining whether the employee is qualified.
Sincerely.
R. Sleva
Factory Personnel Manager
June 4, 1990
Mr. Caaaron Nelson
Business Agent
Brewery, Malt 4 Soft Drink workers
Local 1304
238 Jane Street
Toronto, Ontario M6S 331
Dear Me. Nelson:
RE: LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
REINSTATEMENT OF BENEFIT COVERAGE
The parties to the current Collective Agreement having an expiry date of March 31, 1992, agree to reinstate the usual benefit coverage for employees returning to active employment following a prolonged period at absence from work with the following understanding:
Employees absenting themselves from work due to sickness or accident who Inform the Medical Department of their intention to return to active employment tray do so with the understanding that the necessary medical authorization is in place. In addition, such employees w i 11 be permitted to return to active employment, however, under a period of assessment (4 weeks in duration) at which pint we will determine if in Fact the individual is actually able to return to active employment or if the individual is merely abusing the system by attempting to establish a new claim.
Sincerely,
R. Sleva
Factory Personnel Manager
RS/jr
June 4, 1990
Mr. Cameron Nelson Business Agent
Brewery, Malt s Soft Drink Workers
Local 1304
233 Jane Street
Toronto. Ontario M6S 3Z1
Dear Mr. Nelson:
RE: LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
It is agreed by both the Company and the Union that should the Industrial Relations Administrator be unavailable for presentation of a formal grievance and or step one of the grievance procedure, the grievance in that case, will proceed directly to step two provided the grievance is submitted within two working days following the rendering of the supervisor's answer*
Sincerely,
R. Sleva
Factory Personnel Manager
RS/jr
June 4, 1990
Mr. Cameron Nelson Business Agent
Brewery, IVfelt & Soft Drink Workers Local *304 238 Jane street Toronto, Ontario M6S 3Z1
Dear Mr. Nelson:
RE; LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING ESSENTIAL SERVICES GROUP
This letter merely serves to confirm our discussions during the 1987 set of negotiations with regard to the scheduling of vacations for this group.
The parties understand and agree that Article XIV section 14.04 of the Collective Agreement is not applicable to persons employed in essential services as described below. However, the Company shall make a reasonable effort to accommodate requests for vacations during the period described in (14.04) and agrees to maintain the current practices with respect to vacation scheduling for these groups of employees.
Essential services defined:	- Skilled Trades
-	Warehousing Occupations
-	Plant Services
-	Decorating
-	sign Shop
Sincerely,
R. Sleva
Factory Personnel Manager
RS/jr
June 4, 1990
Mr. Cameron Nelson Business Agent
Brewary, Malt & Soft Drink Workers Local #304 238 Jane Street Toronto. Ontario M6S 3Z1
Dear Mr. Nelson:
RE: LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING APPENDIX "C"- MEMORANDUM OF SETTLEMENT
The Company will make every reasonable effort to ensure that no employee with ten (10) or more years of seniority will work less than the number of insurable weeks per year required to qualify for U.I.C. benefits.
The Union and the Company agree that it may not be possible for the Company to ensure this minim number of weeks v\rork should the poundage fall below the 1984 poundage production level minus 5%.
Sincerely,
R. Sleva
Factory Personnel Manager
RS/jr
June 4, 1990
Hr. Cameron Nelson Business Agent
Brewery, Malt & Soft Drink workers Local *304 238 Jane Street Toronto, Ontario M6S 321
Dear Hr. Nelson:
It Is agreed by the Company and Union that In the event of a recall to work for a definite term and task of less than one week, the Company shall begin by recalling employees by order of seniority. However, if it is apparent that senior employees do not choose to return to work, the Company shall offer the recall to the most junior employees.
In the event that junior employees refuse the recall, the Company shall then fill the vacancy as it sees fit.
Sincerely,
R. Sleva
Factory Personnel Manager
RS/jr
June 4, 1990
Mr, Cameron Nelson Business Agent
Brewery, Malt & Soft Drink Workers
Local 1304
238 Jane Street
Toronto, Ontario
MSS 3Z1
war Mr. Nelson:
RE: LETTER OF UtTDERSTANPINO RBCCOVITICtJ 1,01 - INCLUSION Or MIDLAND AVOtUE
The Company recognizes that sfBpioyees in the above mentioned bargaining unit are somewhat isolated from the tr«ajor part of the business and as such, agrees, that vacancies arising at Midland Avenue will first be provided (via job posting) to the employees actually working in the location where the vacancy has arisen. Failing to fill the vacancy with employees from within the location described above, the Company may fill the job as it see?
Sincerely,
R. Sleva
factory Personnel Manager
RS/jr
June 4, 1990
Mr, Cameron Nelson Business Agent
Brewery, Malt s Soft Drink Workers
Local 1304
238 Jane Street
Toronto, Ontario MSS 3Z1
Dear Mr. Nelson:
IE: LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING (DATED APRIL 13, 1985)
TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE
If the number of permanent full-tine employees are substantially reduced as a direct result of technological change, the Company agrees to advise the Union of the potential reduction of Unionized employees prior to any such change.
Sincerely,
R. Sleva
Factory Personnel Manager
RS/jr
June 4, 1990
Mr. Cameron Nelson Business Agent
Brewery, Kelt s> Soft Drink workers Local 1304 238 Jane Street Toronto, Ontario M6S 3zl
Dear Mr. Nelson:
EE: LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING (DATED APRIL 13, 1965) CONTRACTING OUT
h e Conpany will continua its practice concerning the above subject matter, with the understanding that it will result in the layoff or delay of recall of any regular employee who has completed the probationary period and has acquired proper seniority standing.
Sincerely,
R. Sleva
Factory Personnel Manager
June 4, 1990
Me. Cameron Nelson Business Agent
Brewery, Malt & Soft Drink Workers Local No. 304 238 Jane Street Toronto, Ontario M6S 321
Dear Mr. Nelson:
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING RE: GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
With respect to our discussions during the 1990 set of negotiations regarding difficulties associated with the grievance procedure, the Union has our commitment that a sincere effort will be made to effectively manage the process while ensuring that adequate importance is applied to the various steps jointly by both management and union representatives.
If difficulties continue with effective management of the process, the parties will meet on car about January 1991 for the purpose of discussing alternative solutions.
Sincerely,
Robert Sleva
Factory Personnel Manager
c.c. Operations Management Supervisory Personnel
RS/jr
June 4, 1990
Mr. Cameron Nelson
Business Agent
Brewery, Malt fi Soft Drink Workers
Local No. 304
238 Jane Street
Toronto, Ontario
M6S 3Z1
mar Mr. Nelson:
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING RE:	S
As discussed throughout the 1990 negotiations the security o€ the continuation of operations at Birchnount does not appear to be an issue of concern. However, In the event of discontinuance of all or part of the business, the severance pay formula applicable to the Sterling Road group shall apply.
/
Sincerely,
R. Sleva
Factory Personnel Manager
June 4, 1990
Hr. Cameron Nelson Business Agent
Brewery, Malt a Soft Drink Workers Local No. 304 238 Jane Street Toronto. Ontario M6S 321
Dear Hr. Nelson:
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING RE: MAINTENANCE OF PAY
Employees unable to bump the mast junior employee within their own wage rate classification, who are, by virtue of existing language with regard to lay-off contained in the Collective Agreement, farced to accept a position in a lower wage rate classification, shall be treated as follows:
A)	Employees so displaced due to their lack of skill and ability, who have been offered, and have refused, an opportunity to receive cross training, shall be paid the applicable rate of pay for the job claimed by virtue of the lay-off procedure.
B)	Employees so displaced due to their lack of skill and ability, who have accepted any and all opportunities for cross training offered them, shall be paid their regular rate of pay for a maximum period of eight (8) weeks, and thereafter shall be paid the applicable rate of pay for the job claimed by virtue of the lay-off procedure.
C)	Failure of employees to meet the obligation with regard to cross training, or to demonstrate a satisfactory effort in the opinion of the Company, will result in immediate dlsgualification from entitlement as described in B) above.
Sincerely,
R. Sleva
Factory Personnel Manager
RS/jr
June 4, 1990
Mr. Cameron Nelson Business Agent
Brewery, Malt 4 Soft Drink Workers Local No. 304 238 Jane Street Toronto, Ontario M6S 3Z1
Dear Mr. Nelson:
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING RE: TEMPORARY TO PERMANENT STATUS
In keeping with our Agreement reached during the recent set of negotiations and in addition to newly negotiated language (12.091, the following practice will be adopted.
1A)	me filling of Permanent positions, as deemed necessary by
the Company, resulting from natural attrition will be in the first instance, satisfied by means of the tenporary employee group and in order of "tenporary employment status seniority" provided they are qualified in the opinion of the Company to perform the requirements of the job.
B)	In offering positions to tenporary employees, this will in no way interfere with or restrict our inherent rights as defined under Article III of the terms and conditions of the Collective Agreement.
C)	This will in no be interpreted ty the union as a
guarantee to maintain (or increasel a specific level of permanent employees.
D)	In addition to the above, the Union has our assurance that it is not the Company's intention to reduce the conplenent of full-time employees by mans of increasing the temporary group. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Union must recognize that the Company has an absolute right to determine the number of employees to be employed as specified under the Management Rights clause as contained in Article III of the current Collective Agreement.
sincerely,
R. Sleva
Factory Personnel Manager RS/jr
June 4, 1990
Mr. Cameron Nelson Business Agent
Brewery, Halt s Soft Drink workers Local 304 230 Jane Street Toronto, Ontario M6S 3Z1
Pear Mi. Nelson:
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING RE: SENIORITY DATE CHALLENGE
With respect to employees who wish to challenge the validity of
their seniority data on the same basis as described in Article IX
Section 9.04 they m y do so with the following provisos:
A)	- any and all challenges will be subject to the language 46 contained in the Collective Agreement then in effect.
B)	- the Union, its officers, Stewards, etc., agree that this issue will not be tabled as a topic of discussion or for consideration in future so long as it continues to represent employees at this location.
C> - the Union further agrees that the Conpany will not be held liable far any claim for damages other than issuing a new seniority data if found to be in error.
D)	- the Union accepts conplete responsibility to ensure its membership is made aware that this "window" is a direct result of 1990 negotiations by way of a Union demand.
E)	- all challenges must be in writing (in triplicate) with copies provided to the Union office, Factory Personnel Manager, and oivi copy for the employee.
F)	- the challenge oust clearly state the current seniority date and alleged "correct" seniority date, employees name, and employee number.
2
Mr. Cameron Nelson Page 2.
June 4, 1990
G)	- recognizing the onus is on the employee to prove improper seniority starding, and correct seniority date it is his/her responsibility to reouest a form for completion from the Plant Chairperson ana once the form has been properly completed, it shall be returned to the Plant Chairperson who shall then submit it to the Factory Personnel Manager.
-	this "window" shall commence an August 23, 1990 and shall cease to exist on September 7, 1990, at 5:00 p.m.
-	it is further understood and agreed that the parties will meet on September 17, 1990 in working towards a resolve on this issue.
H)	- the Company will have the final say as to whether or not the current date as posted is correct, decisions shall be based on information as contained on the employee's employment record (frontsheet) except in cases where the employee can prove otherwise. All decisions will be final and binding on all concerned, without recourse to the grievance procedure ■, etc.
sincerely,
R. Sleva
Factory Personnel Manager
RS/jc
June 4, 1990
Mr. Cameron Nelson Business Agent
Brewery^ Malt & Soft Drink Workers
Local 304
238 Jane Street
Toronto, Ontario M6s 3zl
Dear Mr. Nelson:
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING RE: C.O.L.A.
As discussed and agreed upon during the recent Set of negotiations, the Company will ensure that the general increase of .i seventy (70) cents per hour effective April 1, 1992, is not eroded II as a result of a C.O.L.A. adjustment extended to the Sterling Road ffl group between the period (March 1, 1991 to February 29, 1992) that l| might exceed forty (40) cents per hour.	-
In the event the Sterling C.O.L.A. formula does provide for a benefit in excess of the forty (40) cents, the actual amount exceeding forty (40) cents will be extended to the Birchmount hourly group effective April 1, 1992, in the form of a cost of living allowance and will be treated in a m e r similar to that in affect at Sterling Road.
Sincerely,
R. Sleva
Factory Personnel Manager
June 4, 1990
Mr. Cameron Nelson Business Agent
Brewery, Malt & Soft Drink Workers
Local 304
238 Jane street
Toronto, Ontario M6S 3Z1
Dear Mr. Nelsons
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
RE:	MAINTENANCE
(TRADES GROPP)
In view of the concerns expressed during the 1990 negotiation:, with respect to the maintenance group and in particular, their wage base, the Company will endeavor to ensure a reasonable balance exists between the base rates at Birchmount and comparable industry which would Include Sterling Road.
Qualifications and the prerequisite skill base required for the job will play a major role in determining inequities, etc.
Sincerely,
R. Sleva
Factory Personnel Manager
RS/jr