COLLECTIVE AGREEMEN! between:
i
LIPTON
A Division of Va, Canada In Brampton, Ontario
and
BAKERY, CONFECTIONERY, TOBACCO WORKERS AND GRAIN MILLERS INTERNATIONAL UNION A.E.L. - GI.O., C;L.C.
AND ITS LOCAL UNION 327G
February 16,1999 to
February 15,2003
00590 (08)
INDEX
ARTICLE	TITLE	PAGE
1	Purpose.......................................... 3
2	Recognition...................................... 3
3	Relationship..................................... 3
4	Management Rights.................................. 4
5	Union Grievance Committee........................ 5
6	Grievance Procedure.............................. 6
7	Arbitration...................................... 8
g	Management Grievances............................ 8
9	Suspensions over 1 week orDismissals...:......... 9
IQ	No Strikes - No Lockouts..........................  9
11	Wages............................................. 10
12	Hours of Work and Overtime........................ 10
1}	Vacations with Pay................................ 13
14	Statutory Holidays................................ 16
15	Seniority......................................... 17
16	Job Postings and Transfers........................ 18
17	Reductions of Workforce and Recall
Procedure........................................ 22
18	Severance Pay..................................... 25
19	Leave of Absence.................................. 25
20	General........................................... 26
21	Benefits.......................................... 28
22	MaintenanceDepartment Section..................... 30
23	Termination....................................... 32
24	Health & Safety................................... 34
APPENDIX A	Wage Schedule..................................... 34
APPENDIX B	Job Evaluation System............................. 37
APPENDIX C	Salary System..................................... 39
Letter of Understanding
-Inclement	  40
-Inventories......................................41
-Skilled Trades Premium...........................42
Guidelines to Overtime Distribution...............43
-Weekend Overtime VolunteerLisl Guidelines...... 46
I* ij
- i-
00 5^0 Go$>
AGREEMENT
THIS AGREEMENT made and entered into this 3rd day of June, 1999. BETWEEN:
LIPTON
A DIVISION OF UL CANADA INC. (Hereinafter referred to as the "Company")
OF THE FIRST PART AND
BAKERY, CONFECTIONERY,TOBACCO WORKERS AND GRAIN MILLERS INTERNATIONAL UNION AND ITS LOCAL UNION 327G
(hereinafter referred to as the "Union") OF THE SECOND PART COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT 1999 ■ 2003
-2
ARTICLE 1
Purpose
1.01	The general purpose of this agreement is to establish mutually satisfactory relations between the Company and its employees and to provide machinery for the prompt and equitable disposition of grievances and to establish and maintain satisfactory working conditions and other conditions of employment as sot out in this agreement, hours of work and wages for all employees who are subject to the provisions of this agreement
ARTICLE 2
Recognition
2.01	The Company recognizes the Union as the soie bargaining agent for ail employees of the Company who have acquired seniority by the terms of 15.01(a) in its plant at 307 Orenda Road, Brampton, Ontario save and except foremen, foreladies, persons above the rank of foreman and forelady, laboratory personnel, office and sales staff and persons covered by a Certificate of the Board dated March 31st, 1964.
ARTICLE 3 Relationship
3.01	Employees who are presently members of the union must continue their membership in the union as a condition of employment. Employees hired after the effective date of this agreement must, as a condition of employment, become members of the union.
3.02	The Union will not engage In union activities during working hours or hold meetings at any time on the premises of the Company without the permission of the Plant Manager and his or her designee.
3.03	All employees who have completed the probationary period shall, as a condition of employment, sign an authorization in writing to deduct initiation fees and whatever sum may be so authorized for Union dues from the pay due for the pay period which includes the firs! calendar day of the calendar month following that in which the authorization is received by the Company.
Back dues owing will be collected by the company at the rate of one months dues per week from the wages of an employee who has been on lay off.
The Company shall remit sane by the 15th of every month promptly to the Financial Secretary of the Union together with a list of employees from whose
-3-
pay deductionshavebeen made
The said sums shall be accepted by the Union as the regular monthly dues of those employees, subject to the terms and conditions of the BCTGM International Constitution and bylaws of Local 3270, who are or shall become members of die Union and the sums so deducted from non-members of the Union shall be treated as their contribution towards the expenses of maintaining the Union.
3.04	Each month the Company will provide to the Union President or his or her
designee a listing of the names of new employees and the dates they completed their probationary period during the previous month,
ARTICLE 4 Management Rights
4.01	Subject to the express limitations of the agreement the Union acknowledges that it is the exclusive function of the Company to hire, promote, demote, classify, transfer and suspend employees, aid also die right of the Company to discipline or discharge any employee for just cause, provided that a claim by an employee, who has acquired seniority, that he has been discharged or disciplined without just cause may be the subject of a grievance and dealt with as hereinafter provided. All records of discipline up to and including written warnings will be removed after 12 months from the date the employee receives it. AU other discipline will be disregarded after 36 months.
4.02	Subject to the express limitations of the agreement the Union further recognizes the right of the Company to operate and manage its business in all respects in accordance with its commitments and responsibilities. The location of the plants, and products to be manufactured, the schedules of production, the methods, processes and means of manufacturing used, the right to decide on the number of employees needed by the Company at any time, die right to use improved methods, machinery and equipment and jurisdiction over all operations, buildings, machinery, tools, and employees at the plant at 307 Orenda Road, Brampton, Ontario are solely and exclusively the responsibility of the Company. The Company also has the right to make, alter from time to time, and enforce reasonable rules and regulations to be observed by the employees.
4.03	The Company will provide 7 days advance notice to (he Union of changes to Plant Rules in writing prior to their implementation except with respect to safety and legal issues.
4.04	Without limiting the generality of the forgoing provisions, it is expressly understood and agreed that breach of any of the plant rules, or of any of the provisions of the agreement may be deemed to be sufficient cause for disciplinary action up to and including dismissal of an employee.
-4-
ARTICLES
Union Grievance Committee
5.01	The Company acknowledges the right of the Union to appoint or otherwise select, a plant Committee, otherwise known as the Union Committee, which shall be composed of not mote than nine stewards. All stewards, shall be regular employees of the Company actually at work who have completed their probationary period. The Company will recognize and deal with the said committee as hereinafter set forth.
5.02	The name of each of the stewards who are members of the Union committee from time to time selected, shall be given to the Company m writing and the Company shall not be required to recognize any such steward until it has been notified in writing ty the Union of the name of the same.
5.03	The Company undertakes to instruct all members of its supervisory staff to cooperate with die stewards and Union Officers in the carrying out of die terms and requirements of this agreement.
5.04	The Union underlakes to secure from its officers, stewards and members their co-cpaatkn with the Company and With all persons representing the Company in a supervisory capacity, in the carrying out of the terms and requirements of this agreement
5.05	The right of stewards to leave their work without loss of pay to investigate or adjust grievances is granted on the following conditions:
5.05	(a) An employee may have the right to have a Steward present when a recorded
verbal disciplineor a written discipline is being presented to the employee.
5.05	(b) A steward or his/her designee will request the permission of his/her Supervisorto
leave his work station to participate in the processing and investigation of grievances after the completion of the grievance procedure as outlined in 6.01 and/or preliminary meetings with management Such permission will not be unreasonably withheld Compensation for such time off shall be at the employees then current rate of pay. Except in the case of a discharged employee or in a suspension over one week which procedure is outlined in Section 9.03, employees having a grievance shall not leave their work station to discuss it with the steward or his designee during working hours without permission of the Sqxnriaar.
5.05 (c)	Hie Company reserves the right to limit such time if it deems the time so taken to
be excessive.
5.05	(d) The Company agrees that stewards shall be compensated for such time off from
-5-
their regular working hours as necessary to investigate grievances. The Company further agrees that Union stewards and the Union President or his/her designee shall be compensated for such time a£f from their regular working hours as is necessary to investigate and attend meetings under the grievance procedure. In ail cases compensation shall be at the employee’s then current rate of pay.
5.05(e) There shall be no coercion, restraint, or discriminationby the employer or any of its agents, against any members of the Union because of membership therein, or the carrying on of any proper Union activity.
5.06	Any discipline, written or verbal, must occur within ten (10) days of the alleged
offence, or the Company’s knowledge thereof. This may be extended by a reasonable period, for investigation purposes.
ARTICLE 6 Grievance Procedure
6.01	It is the intention of the parties to settle as equitably and as quickly as possible, any grievance which might arise related to a violation of this agreement. A formal grievance shall not be filed until the employee has presented his/her complaint to his/her immediate Supervisor verbally within 3 working days after the employeemight reasonably have become aware of circumstances giving rise to such grievance. 3he Supervisor will render his/her decision on the complaint within 3 working days.
6.02	The employee may consult with the available steward following the procedure outlined in 6.01 above providing the employee first obtains his/her Supervisor’s permission.
6.03	The aggrieved employee shall present his/her written grievanceto his/her immediate supervisor at which time the employee shall have the assistanceof a steward or an dEca: of the Union.
Step 1 The aggrieved employee shall present his/her written grievance to his/her immediate supervisor at which time the employee shall have the assistance of a steward or an officer of the Union. The Supervisor shall render his/her disposition to the grievance in writing within three working days. If a settlement satisfactory to the employee is not reached, the employee then proceed to the next Step of the grievance procedure any time within three working days thereafter.
Step 2 The aggrieved employee shall present his/her written grievance to the Human Resources Manager and at that time the steward shall be present. The Human Resources Manager’s decision shall be rendered in writing, within three working
-6
Step 3
6.04
6.05
6.06
6.07
days of such meeting, and failing satisfactory settlement, the employee may proceed to thB next Step within three working days thereafter
The aggrieved employee shall present his/her grievance to the Plant Manager, or his/her designee. Within five working days of receipt of the grievance, the Plant hfenegar and whoever he/she deems necessary to assist in the disposition of the grievance will meet with the employee concerned together with the Union President or his/her designee and a representative of the International Union and a Steward if their presence is requested by either party. The Plant Manager, or designee, will render a disposition in writing to die grievance within seven working days subsequent to such meeting.
Failing satisfactory settlement, the grievance may be referred by either party to a Board of Arbitration, in writing, as provided in Article 7, at any time within twenty-one days thereafter.
If a grievance is not processed or referred to arbitration within the time limits set forth above, it will be deemed to have been withdrawn. All time limits may be extended ty mutual agreement.
A group grievance is defined as one alleging a violation of the agreement and which concerns more than one employee of the Bargaining Unit. Such a grievance should be presented to the Supervisorverbally at any time within three working days after the circumstances giving rise to such grievance occurred or when such employees might reasonably become aware of the occurrence. The Supervisor will respond verbally to the grievance within one working day and failing satisfactory resolution of the grievance it may be brought forward in writing at Step 2 of the Grievance Procedure within three working days after the Supervisor has rendered his/her decision. Such grievance will be processed through the balanoe of the Grievance Procedure and to Arbitration in the same way as an individual grievance. The names of all the aggrieved employees shall be attached to the written grievance at the time it is filed with the Company as set forth above.
Should any difference arise between tire Company and the Union as to the interpretation or alleged violation of the provisions of this agreement affecting the Union as such, the Union President or designee shall have the right to bring forward to the Plant Manager or his/her designee any such complaint. If such complaint is not settled to the mutual satisfactionof the conferring parties, it may be treated as a Third Step grievance and referred to arbitration in the same way as the grievance of an employee. No such grievance shall be filed with respect to the same subject matter that is already the subject of a grievance filed ty an employee under Section 6, nor shall any grievance be filed by an employee with respect to the same subject matter that is already the subject of a grievance filed by the Union under this section.
-7
ARTICLE 7
7.01
7.02
7.03
7.04
7.05
7.06
7.07
7.08
8.01
Arbitration
Both parties to this agreement agree that any dispute or grievance concerning the interpretation or alleged violation of this agreement, which has been properly carried through all the steps of the grievance procedure outlined in Article 6 above, and which has not been settled, will be referred to Arbitration, at the written request of either of the parties hereto.
A single arbitrator may be appointed by mutual agreement between the parties or by application to the Ministry of Labour.
Within 10 normal working days of the request by either party for a board, each patty shall notify the other in writing of the name of its appointee. However, both parties should attempt to appoint its nominw at the earliest possible date.
Should the person chosen by the Company to act on the Board and the person chosen by die Union, fail to agree on a third person within seven days of the notification mentioned in 7.03 above, the Minister of labour for the Province of Ontario will be asked to nominate a Chairperson.
The decision of the Arbitrator shall be binding on both parties.
The Arbitrator shall not have any power to alter or change any of the provisions of this agreement or to substitute any new provisions for any existing provisions, nor to give any decisions inconsistent with the terms and provisions of this agreement.
Each of the parties to this agreement will share the expenses of the Arbitrator.
Ho person shall te selected as arbitrator who has been directly involved in attempts to negotiate or settle the grievance.
ARTICLE 8
Management Grievances
It is understood that the management may bring forward to the Union any complaint with respect to the conduct of the Union, its Officers or stewards and that, if such complaint by the management is not settled to the mutual satisfaction of the conferring parties, it may te tasted as a grievance of an employee. All preliminary steps of the grievance procedure prior to step 3 will be omitted in such case.
-8-
ARTICLE 9
9.01
9.02
9.03
9.04
10.01
10.02
10.03
suspensionsover One Week or Dismissals
In the event that an employee who has attained seniority is dismissed from employment, or suspended from employment for more than one week, and the employee alleges that the dismissal or suspension was improper, the case may be taken up as a grievance as outlined in the following clause. A suspension of less than one week may be taken up through the normal grievance procedure.
A claim ty an employee, who has attained seniority, that he/she has been unjustly dismissed or suspended for over one week from his/her employment shall be treated as a grievance if a written statement of such grievance is lodged with the Plant Manager or his/her designee within three working days after the employee oases to work for the Company. All preliminary steps of the grievance procedure prior to Step 3 will be omitted in such case. All such cases shall be taken up within three working days and replied to within seven working days of the date the employee is notified in writing of his/her dismissal or suspension over one week, except where a case is taken to arbitration.
When an employee has been dismissed or suspended over one week without notice, be/she shall have the right to interview his/her steward for a reasonable period of time before leaving the Plant premises.
If the matter is not settled through the grievance procedure and is taken to arbitration, and it is finally determined by a Board of Arbitration that dismissal or suspension over one week was too severe a penalty, the employee shall be reinstated, either with or without compensation for time lost, or by any other arrangement which the Board of Arbitration findsjust and equitable.
ARTICLE 10
No Strikes - No Lockouts
m view of the orderly procedures established by this agreement for the settling of disputes and tha handling of grievances, the Union agrees that during the life of this agreement, it will not sanction, counsel, procure or encourage any picketing, slowdown or stoppage of work, either complete or partial, and the Company agrees that there will be no lockout.
Hie Company shall have the right to dismiss or otherwise discipline employees who rake part in or instigate any illegal strike, picketing stoppage or slowdown, but a claim of unjust dismissal or treatment may be the subject of a grievance and dealt with as provided in Article 6 above.
Should the Union claim that a cessation of work constitutes a lockout, it may take the matter up with the Company at Step 3 of the grievance procedure.
•9
ARTICLE U
Wages
11.01	During the tarn of this agreement, the Company and the Union agree that all payments of wages will be made in accordance with the wage rates set forth in Schedule ‘AM hereto which is hereby made a part of this agreement.
ARTICLE 12
Hours of Work and Overtime
12.01	The following paragraphs and sections are intended to define the normal working hours of wok and shall not be construed as a guarantee of hours of work per day or per week, or of days of work per week.
12.02	The standard work week shall consist of forty hours per week, and eight hours per day. The duration of each shift is to be eight (8) hours including a one half hour eating period.
12.03(a) An overtime rate of time and one-half of the employee’sbasic rate will be paid fix-all hours worked in excess of eight hours in any normal work day.
12.03(b) Time and one-half will he paid for all work performed on a Saturday except for work on a Saturday that is performed as a part of a shift commencing Friday night or a lieu day at straight time which may be worked at the nuhnL agreement of the Company and the Union.
12.03(c) Except as outlined In 12.03(b) double time will he paid for all work performed on a Saturday in excess of an 8 hour shift, provided that the 8 hour shift is not part of the employees’ regular scheduled wok week.
12.03(d) All work performed on a Sunday will be paid for at double the employee’sbasic rate except for shift work commencing Sunday night which is considered as a Mxr^dsft.
12.03(e) An employee who has completed his/her regular shift and leaves the premises and is then recalled to work, shall receive a minimum of four hours pay at the employee’s regular straight time rate or one and one half times the employee’s rate for hours actually worked, whichever is the greater. Employees called in to work on Sunday shall receive a minimum of 4 hours pay at the employee’s regular hourly rate or double the employee’s regular hourly rate whichever is the greater.
12.03(f) None of the foregoing Section 12.03 concerns the special provisions for premium
- 10-
payment on continuous shift operations as these payments are described in Section 12.07,
12.04
12.05(a)
12.05(b)
12.05(c)
12.06(a)
Wian work on a Saturday or Sunday is not part of a regularly scheduled shift, the Company shall endeavour to post the schedule 40 clock hours in advance of the commencement of such work. Otherwise such overtime work shall he voluntary.
Ute Company will attempt to provide an employee two hours of notice for overtime at the end of a shift. Should the Company fail to provide such notice, the working of such overtime will be voluntary.
When overtime is required to be worked through the failure of a shipmate to appear on time for an employee’s shift, the Company will require the affected employee to work up to the first four hours of the extra shift only. Employees will not leave their work station until they are relieved by another employee, or obtain permission to do so from their Supervisor. The two hour notice period referred to in 12.05(a) does not apply to the circumstances stated in this section. The Supervisor will, whenever possible, endeavour to obtain another qualified replacement as per the overtime selection guidelines. Shiftmale is the person who has the lowest overtime hours in the particular classification on shift.
Whenever two hours or more cf overtime are being worked consecutively beyond the first eight hours of normal work, a fifteen atinule rest period will be provided before the overtime conmenaes. This constitutes the required meal break which must be provided at such intervals so that no employee works longer than 5 consecutive hours without an eating period. This will be the only rest period provided if the overtime work is less than four hours. If four hours or more of overtime is worked the provisions of Section 20.01(a) apply in addition to this Section.
All overtime including weekend overtime will be evenly distributed as circumstances wi 11 permit in the spirit of ths overtime distribution guidelines.
When overtime is required, the supervisor will start by asking the employee with the lowest overtime hours charged and moving up thB charging list in each of the following:
(1st) the permanent posted employee in the job and successful applicants of permanent job postings retain overtime rights of their previous job classification until they become qualified and are entitled to overtime as permanent posted employees in their new job classification.
(2nd) the temporary posted employee working in thejob.
(3rd) the qualified employee in the department.
(4th) the qualified employees temporarily transferred into the department.
(5th) qualified employees working outside the department (6th) qualified probationary employees will be offered overtime last.
II -
At steps 3 and 3, overtime will be distributed first to people qualified by having been permanently posted for six (fijweeks or more and then to those, having filled the requirements as per the training master. After exhausting all the steps of 12.06(a) and no cne was found to work the overtime, the 11 permanent posted" person with the lowest overtime charged will be required to wotk. Employees eligible to be asked for overtime, but not available for overtime, will be charged the actual number of hours, if entitled under equal distribution, in their job classification duringthe period. Theonly exceptions would be when an employee is on vacation entitlement or union business.
When weekend overtime is required, an Overtime Volunteer List will be used. Volunteers will be selected followingthe steps listed above Weekend Overtime Volunteer List Guidelines will be followed.
12.06(b) When an employee moves from one job classification to another, the employee will enter with the average between high and low overtime hours in that classification for the purpose of equal distribution of overtime.
12.06(c) The Company will not schedule more than 12 consecutive hours of work to an enployee. If dueto absence, etc. 16 hours of work is available, not more than 12 hours need be wotked by any one employee.
12.06(d) The Company agrees that overtime will be equally distributed and records kept of the distribution for discussion as necessary with the Uniat representatives and/or employees and that such overtime will be distributed among regular employees and lastly among temporary (those hired for specific temporary periods) and Summer (student) employees. The departmental Supervisor will keep accurate records tf all overtime worked in the department and make same available for employee review upon request. To provide for equal distribution of overtime, a charging system has been developed, a copy of which may be obtained from the Human Besangas department.
12,07	The Company shall endeavour to schedule as many employees as possible, in
accordance with good operating procedures to work on a Monday through Friday basis. Changes from the schedule to Continuous Shift operations shall not be made arbitrarily and it is recognized that the following are examples of situations which may require the change to Continuous Shift:
(a)	Introductionof new products or processes into the Plant
(b)	Additional production requirements for existing products or processes.
For the putpose of this Agreement, a continuous shift will be a situation that incorporatesan ongoing seven day a week production schedule.
It is understood and agreed between the parties that when Continuous Shift operations are established, the following conditions shall apply:
-12-
(1)	That five days notice will be given before such Continuous Shift schedule is instituted.
(2)	That a Continuous Shift schedule, once established, shall remain in effect for a minimum of ninety days.
(3)	All work performed on the seventh consecutive day shall be paid at the rate of double time.
(4)	The Company will continue its past practice of paying time and one half for work performed on a Saturday, double time for work performed on a Sunday and double time for time worked on the 7th consecutive day during a continuous shift. The sixth consecutive day worked will be compensated according to provincial law at straight time for the first 4 hours and time and one half the next consecutive4 hours worked.
12.08	The work week of the plant cleaners will be scheduled by the Company in accordance with the requirements of production.
12.09	No employee shall be required to take time cff from his/her regular work week in order to off-setovertime hours worked.
12.10	Normally, employees on shift work will rotate shifts every week. Shift employees will not be required to change shifts more than once per week (a change is from one shift to another, then back to the original shift) and if such a shift change is necessary it will commence with the most junior qualified person in the department, and a minimum of 48 hours notice will be given. It’s understood that five days notice will be given of the start up of a third shift and that once established it will not be changed mid week.
12.11	See Letter of Understanding re: Inventories.
12.12	Commencing no later tiHiJuly l, 1990, employees scheduled on three (3) shifts will start the “A” shift Sunday night.
12.13	A $5.00 allowance is provided to employees working a 16 hour shift,
ARTICLE 13 VbcatiaB with Pay
13.01	Ihe Company agrees to grant regular employees vacation with pay as set forth
below at times convenient to the Company consistent with production requirements. Employees who have been laid off and have not completed a minimum of 750 hours in the preceding vacation year will only receive their
-13-
vacation pay calculated as a percentage of payroll earnings. (The 750 hours mentioned above, includes regular and overtime hours worked, and all hours paid by the salary plan, time spent on Weekly Indemnity, Workers Compensation and maternity leave).
Vacation pay will be issued when vacation is taken. Employees will have the option to notify the Company before December 15th of the prior year, that they would prefer to receive vacation pay as a lump sum.
All employees whose employment has terminated will have any vacation pay still owing to them paid at the time of their termination, based on the appropriate percentage of gross earnings under Article 13, For the purposes of this clause, on retirement, employment terminates.
In the vacation year an employee’s employment has terminated, the Company will include in the calculation of gross payroll earnings for the purpose of calculating Vacation pay, one week’s pay at the wotker’s regular rate (permanent posted rate) for each week that the worker has spent receiving Worker’s Compensation Board benefits in his/her last vacation year.
13.01(a) Up to one year of completed service • vacation pay at tr* raie of 4% of the employee’s earnings for the year ending May 31st, as required by the Vacations with Pay Act of the Province of Ontario.
13.01(b) Che completed year of service • and up to four completed years of serviceprior to June 1st of the year concerned • two weeks' vacation with pay or at the rate of 4% of such employee’s gross earnings during the twelve months immediately preceding June 1st in that year, whichever is the greater.
13.01(c) Four completed years of service - and up to eight completed years of serviceprior to June 1st of the year aoncemed - three weeks vacation with pay or at the rate of 6% of such employee’s gross earnings during the twelve months immediately preceding June 1st in tfiatyear, whichever is the greater.
13.01	(d)	Eight completed years of service or mans prior to June 1 st of the year concerned •
four weeks vacation with pay or at the rate of 8% of such employee’s gross earnings during the twelve months immediately preceding June 1st in that year, whichever is the greatest.
13.01(e) Eighteen completed years of serviceprior to June 1st of the year ooncemed- five wedts vacation with pay or at the rate of 10% of such employee’s gross earnings during the twelve months immediately preceding June 1st in that year, whichever is the greater.
13.01(0 Twenly-sevencompleted years of serviceprior to June 1st of the year concerned -six weeks vacation with pay or at the rate of 13% of such employee’s gross
-14-
earnings during the Iweive months immediately preceding June 1st in that year, whichever is the greater.
13.02	When an employee’s vacation entitlement changes as a consequence of service achieved subsequent to June 1st and prior to December 31st, the employee wili be granted the higher vacation entitlement in the current vacation period between June 1st and December31st.
13.03	For purposes of determining the vacation pay of employees, earnings shall include all premium pay, and pay for statutory holidays and vacations as set out in Article 14.
13.04	All vacation entitlements should be taken by end of calendar year. By mutual agreement between the Supervisor and the employee, vacation entitlement may be re-scheduled between January 1st and March 31st of the following year.
13.05	The Company agrees to notify employees of the date of plant shutdown, should there be one, by February 1st of each year. Employees will normally take their vacation during plant shutdown. Plant shutdown, should there be one, will occur during the months of July and/or August.
13.06	Those employees with vacation entitlements greater than the plant shutdown will submit zecpests in writing to their Supervisor before March 1st. and the Supervisor will reply in writing to the employee by March 21st, finalizing their vacation schedule. Vacations will be scheduled by order of seniority and production requirements prior to end of calendar year. Vacation requests submitted after March 1* will be granted on a first come first service basis.
13.07	Employees who work in departments scheduled to operate during plant shutdown will be advised by February 15th of each year, as to the number of employees by job classification that will be required to work during plant shutdown. By Jfizdfl
1st it will be determined which employees will work during plant shutdown.
13.08	In departments operating during plant shutdown, employees in the department will he given first preference by seniority whether they wish to work or schedule these weeks as their vacation.
In the event that a substantial number of employees wish to take their vacation during plant shutdown, then junior employees by job classification will be scheduled to work if necessary.
13.09	Employees who are required to work during plant shutdown will be so informed by their Supervisor and the employee will take his/her vacation at a mutually agreed upon time.
13.10	Approval in writing of the 4th, 5(±i and 6lh weeks of vacation will be given prior
15-
to March 30th of thesame year.
13.11	As of April 1st, any employees having vacation entitlements yet to be scheduled will within 30 days determine with their supervisor the lime that remaining vacation entitlement will be taken from tha remaining weeks available.
13.12	Employees who are hospitalized while on vacation maj defer their vacation and commence receiving full sickness benefits.
13.13	Employees with vacation entitlement greater 3 weeks may choose to work the fourth, fifth and sixth week. Requests to exercise this option must be submitted before March 1*.
ARTICLE 14 Statutory Holidays
14.01	The Company recognizee the following statutory holidays: New Year's Day, the third Monday in February or the day legislated as Heritage Day, Good Friday, Victoria Day, Canada Day, Civic Holiday, Labour Day, Thanksgiving Day, the day immediately before ChristmasrChrlstmas Day, Boxing Day and one Floating Holiday which date will be by mutual agreement between the parties to a total of 12 Statutory Holidays. All employees who qualify in accordance with Clause 14.04(a) shall receive payment for such holidays based on a normal day’s pay. Viren a Statutory ttst-iriy falls on a Saturday or Sunday it will be celebrated on the preceding Friday or the following Monday at mutual agreement between the parties. Failure to reach mutual agreement the Company will select either the Friday or Monday. Employees nsqiitad to perform any work on any of these holidays shall be paid the mie of time and one half of the employee's basic rate, in addition to receiving holiday pay.
14.02	When one of holidays listed in Section 14.01 is observed during an employee's annual vacation, the employee shall be allowed one additional day's vacation with pay in conjunction with his/her vacation unless mutually agreed to take a day's holiday at a later date.
14.03	All employees shall be eligible for holiday pay irrespective of whether they are required to wotk on the holiday or not, subject to the provisions of paragraph 14.04(a).
14.04(a) All employees who have gained seniority and are actively on the payroll for at least 9 working days In the 4 weeks immediately preceding a statutory holiday will be entitled to such holidays as outlined in 14.01 above. Actively on the payroll in this instance shall maen actively at wotk or on Company sick leave (ie. First five days of sickness).
-16-
14.04(b) The provision of 14.01 does not apply to probationary employees
ARTICLE 15 Seniority
15.01	An employee will be considered probationary until such time as he/she has accumulated 60 working days of service in a 12 month period. 60 working days in this instance shall include full days worked on Saturdays and Sundays, Statutory Holidays and Plant Shutdown. Employees hired subsequent to February 16lh, 1979, who have completed the above work period will have their names placed on the seniority list and their seniority date will be coincident with their date of hire except in cases outlined in 15.02(c).
15.02	An employee shall accumulate seniority when he/she is:
a)	Actively at wotk for the Company following completion of the probationary period.
b)	Prevented from working for the Company as a consequence of injury arising out of his/her employment with the Company and which is compensable under the Workers' Compensation Act
c)	Absent due to certified illness for up to 24 months and maintained after that only if the employee is on the Company Group Life Disability Plan.
d)	Absent due to pregnancy leave (17 weeks), parental leave (IS weeks).
15.03	Seniority shall terminate when an employee:
a)	is discharged and not reinstated as a consequence of the grievance or arbitration procedure.
b)	Fte been on lay-off from the Company for a continuous period of twelve months.
c)	Quits the employ of the Company for any reason
d)	Fails to return to work on the date of recall without a satisfactory explanation. Recall shall be by telephone, failing telephone contact, then by registered letter to the employee's last known address. When tbs laid off employees) are contacted by registered mail, the employee(s) will contact the employer within three working days of receipt of such letter. Employee^) are required to keep the Company informed at all times of
- 17-
when they can be readied and must be available to return to weak within 3 days.
e)	Fails to return to wotk on his/her first scheduled working day subsequent to a leave of absence or vacation, unless such failure was reasonable becauseof illness or other circumstancesbeyond this individual’scontrol.
f)	Is absent firm woik for two consecutive days without a satisfactoty explanation or a Doctor's note.
g)	Is absent due to illness for mane than 34 months.
Not applicable if on Company Group Life Disability Plan.
15.04	There will be plant wide seniority and one seniority list will be maintained for all
employees. This list will be revised and posted in the Plant each four months and a copy provided for the Union. Grievancesconceming alleged inaccuracies in the lists must be filed with the Human Resources Manager within five working days of (Ik date the 1 i t is posted. Any employee absent from the Plant at the time a seniority list is posted will have five working days from the date of their return to challenged vs accuracy cf the seniority list. Otherwise the lists will be deemed to be conclusive.
If one or more emp loyees seniority date is coincident, seniority will be determined first by shift(A), (B) and (C) and second by alphabeticalorder.
Change of name shall not effect the employee’s original position on the seniority rit.
ARTICLE 16
Job Postings and Transfers
16.01(a) All new jobs and established permanent job openings after exhausting recall shall be posted in the Plant for three working days and employees in the bargaining unit may make application for such jobs. Hie name, grade and training time for ihe specific job that is open will be typed on each posting form. Probationary employees may apply for plant job postings but their applications will only be considered should no employee with seniority have applied.
16.01(b) Job posting application forms are to be handed in person or ty proxy to Supervision or the Human Resources office. Supervision or the Human Resources office will record date and time of receipt on application form. A copy of receipted application form will be provided to employee or proxy as provided by 16.01(|).
18-
16.01(c)
16.01(d)
16.01(e)
16.01(0
16.01(g)
16.01(h)
name of il» successful employee shall be posted in the Plant normally within three working days but not exceeding five working days. Successful applicants cf* permanent jcb postings will retain overtime rights as permanent posted employees of their previousjob classification until they become qualified and are entitled to overtime as permanent posted employees in their newjob classification.
From the date of actual movement to a permanent posting by job posting, an employee may not bid on another permanentjob posting before a ten week period has elapsed. An employee may make only three lateral or downward moves per year ss a result of job posting. If the employee is disqualified by the company, Ub twelve week period mentioned above is waived.
An employee who has successfully bid on a job posting shall be released within a four week period from the time of acceptance. If the move is delayed beyond the four week period the employee will be paid at the higher rate of pay and the Union will be informed of such delay.
In the event of a temporary job opening for a period expected to be less than 30 worked days, whenever possible the employee who was previously reduced from that job classification will be returned first. If this is not feasible then the most senkr qualified employee will be considered for transfer next and so on, if no senior qualified employee accepts the transfer then the most junior qualified employee will be transferred. Temporary transfers to job grades 1> 2 and 3 will be by seniority only, except into the Night Sanitation Department where employees who waived their right will not be considered eligible.
In the event of a temporary job opening expected to exceed 30 worked days, whenever possible the employee who was previously reduced from that job classification will be returned first.
Failing that, a temporary job will be posted and be identified on the face of the postingas temporary and also state the expected time period of the opening.
Temporary postings will normally be limited to a maximum duration of 26 weeks.
Extension may be necessary if complications arise from uncertainties such as S.T.D. and WSIB situations.
A temporary opening forjob grades 1,2,3, 4, and 5 which is expected to exceed 30 worked days will be posted and be identified on the face of the posting as temporary. The Company will make a selection from the applicants on the basis of seniority only.
A temporary opening forjob grades 6 and above which is expected to exceed 60

16,010)
16.01<i)
16.010c)
16.02(a)
worked days will be posted and be identified on the face of the posting as temporary. The Company will make a selection from the applicants on the basis of seniority only.
A temporary opening for jobs grade 6 and above which is expected to exceed 30 worked days but Jess than 60 worked days, will be posted and be identified on the face of tha posting as temporary. The Company will make a selection from the applicants on tin? basis of qualifications first and seniority second. The minimum qualificationis having filled the requirements as per the training master.
The successful applicant will return to the job he/she held previously on completion of the temporary posting. Experience gained on a temporary posting will not be considered in filling a non-temporary job posting. Employees who have successfully bid into a temporary posted job must complete the duration of the temporary job before being eligible to bid on a temporary job of a different classification, but may bid on permanent job postings and will move according to the provisions of 16.01(e).
The Company shall be subject to the same limitations as set forth in Section 16.02, It Is recognized that if applicants with sufficient qualifications are not available, the Company retains tin? right to hire outside.
Employees who are absent from wotk due to sickness, injury or bereavement at the time a pemranentjob posting or tetpcnaryjob posting of over 12 weeks, may make application for the postadjob up to thirty calendar days from the date of such posting. This will allow a reasonable amount of time for employees to bid on jobs that they are interested in and otherwise would have missed because of illness. Employeesapplying for a terpxary postingmust be medically cleared to sebum to work within 30 days of tte date of the posting. An application may be submitted in person or by proxy by a Union Steward. Job openings will not be posted during Plant Shutdown. Should a job opening be posted less than three working days before Plant Shutdown, it will continue to be posted after Shutdown to fulfil tbs required there working d^ period.
Employees going on vacation must indicate to the Human Resources Office in advance in writing their interest in specificjob postings in order to be considered for suchjob postings.
In all cases of movement as a result of permanent job postings, other than a promotion to a position outside the bargaining unit, the following factors shall be considered:
(1) Seniority
In the event that there is marked difference between the top applicants (2)
20-
shall be invoked otherwise (I) shall apply.
16.02(b)
16.02(c)
16.02(d)
16.03
16.04
(2) Skill, efficiency, experience and past work record with the Company.
In the event of failure on a job posting the employee concerned and subsequent employees posting behind will return to their former posted jobs regardless of seniority. Employees other than employee being failed, will establish bumping and recall rights on that posting provided they had fulfilled the requirements of 16.02(c).
The next applicant will be found through selection of the next senior qualified bidder from the original job posting, provided the requirement still exists and the next senior qualified bidder has not accepted any other permanent job posting. Failing qualified applicants, job will be reposted.
From the date of actual movement to a permanentjob posting the incumbent must complete the job training period as outlined in the job specification. In all cases, minimum of six calendar weeks will be provided excluding shutdowns, holidays, and other absences, for the incumbent to demonstrate that they can satisfactorily perform the job and thus establish bumping and recall rights. To establish bumping and recall rights, the employee must complete the job training as outlined in the job specification.
Should the Company for any reason require an extension of the six week qualifying period referred to in 16.02(c), a written request will be made to the Union President or designee in advance of expiry date of the qualifying period.
When an employee is transferred to a job other than his/her regular job for the convenience of the Company, the employee will have his/her rate maintained if the rate of the job scheduled Is lower than the employee's regular job rate. Should the rate of the job the employee is scheduled to be higher than the employee's regular rate, then the employee will be paid the higher job rate on an exception basis.
This clause does not apply in the case of a temporary posting where an employee will be paid at the rate of the job that the employee has successfully posted to. effective at the time of the actual physical move to a temporary position.
No person shall be transferred to a job position, above grade three (3) unless they are capable of performing the work. Days spent in a job under this clause, are not to be deemed as 'training days" for other contractual applications.
Employees transferred to or relieving on a higher rated job for:
(a)	fifteen consecutive minutes up to two hours, will be paid for the duration of the transfer
-21
(b)	two hours or more, will be paid the higher rate for the whole shift.
Employees who are transferred and scheduled for the week to a higher rated job in which a statutory, holiday is deserved, will be paid the rate of the job for the statutory holiday.
16.05	In the event that an employee is transferred to a position outside tte scope of this
agreement, seniority will be treated as follows if and when he/she returns to the Bargaining Unit. Temporary transfer has a maximum duration of twenty-six (26) Weds
(a)	Expected temporary transfer: The Company will specify the expected time period in advance of the transfer, and during this period seniority will continue to accumulate.
(b)	Expected permanent transfer: Seniority will continue for the first six consecutive months and employees may be returned to the bargaining unit with accrued seniority. In the event that the employee has Insufficient seniority to return to his/her previous posted position, his/her seniority will be exercised bumping laterally or downward Employeeswho are not returned to the bargaining unit within six months may do so after six months as an employee who has completed the probationary period only.
(c)	An employee accepting a pcrmanentjob with the Union will continue to accrue seniority, and they may be returned to the Bargaining Unit with accrued seniority at any time, and bumping laterally or down.
ARTICLE 17
Reduction of Workforce and Recall Procedures
17.01(a) In a reduction of workforce, the Company may transfer the employees affected to any other job in the plant, providing that the rates of pay of the transferred employees are maintained. No person shall be transferred to a job above grade tae (3) unless they are qualified to perform the job.
(b) If the Company does not exercise this right, then the affected employee(s) will:
(1) Exercise their seniority plant wide bumping laterally or downward to and including Job Grade 4, provided the employee is qualified to perform the job.
Qualified in this instance will be defined as a person having been
22-
permanently posted as described in 16.02(c).
b)	temporarily posted or;
c)	trained as outlined, under Jo| Evaluation, always provided the job has not significantly changed stop the employee last performed the job. Management shall determine|f there has been a significant change.
The intent of this clause is |o allow employees to bump by seniority into jobs that they can perfo m immediately in a competent manner. An objective measure of this intent is that an employee would be able to perform the job competently with up to a maximum of ten days refamiliarization.
2)	Will exercise their seniority aldns lo bump into Job Grades 1, 2 and 3 plant wide, with the exception of Night Sanitationjobs.
3)	Will exercise their seniority ape to bump into Night Sanitation jobs
provided they have not waived
(0
insufficient seniority to bump Sanitation Department.
(1) Employees who wish to wal'j jobs must sign a waiver to this* first Monday of any calenda Sanitation may be reinstated by* J by the terms of (2) below.
i right under the terms of 17.01(c).
Employees may only bump i to Night Sanitation jobs if they have
nto Grade 1, 2, & 3 jobs outside the
their right to bump into Night Sanitation feet, Such a waiver may be signed on the month. Bumping rights into Night >b posting under the terms of 16.02(c) or
(2) An employee who has signed < Night Sanitation may revoke January to be effective the first 1 week cf SbjjQdibA to be effecthj
(d)	Movement brought about by a i employees shall start with the | bump the most junior employ© which the employee may burr preference. Bumping movemej lateral or downwards with the«
(e)	In the event that a person wo exercised after exhausting employee will exercise their employee is qualified k> perfol 17.01(bXl).
waiver limiting his/her right to bump into waiver during the second week of londay in February or during the second the first Monday in October.
luction in the workforce of one or more >st junior affected employee who shall of same or lower job classification into and consequently there will be no job at all job classification levels will be jption ofjab grades 1, 2 & 3.
Id be laid off, upward bumping will be sral or downward opportunities. The iority plant-wide. upward, provided the the job. Qualified is defined as in
-23-
17.02(a)
17.02(b)
17.02(c)
17.02(d)
17.03(a)
17.03(b)
(f) After exhausting all bumpinjk exercise their seniority to nf) person with the lowest sei required to meet the terms o<
options outlined above, the employee will ve into Job Grades 4 to 10 displacing the fity. The employee will be trained and 16.02(c).
(g) Employees who have exercis d their rights under 17.01(e) or 17.01(0 will be subject to recall to their fievious position whether it is to a higher or lower grade job.
The recall procedure will be exerclsfel when ajob opening is expected to exceed and does exceed one scheduled wo 1 week due to an increase in production or when an incumbent permanently vac lies thejob classification in question.
An employee will also be considew 1 for 20 worked days to the job c a previously due to die need to repla >
as having been recalled should they return .tslfication from which they were reduced i: another incumbent who is absent for any
In recalls to job Grades 4 and governing factor provided the snp(b| available work by the terms of 16.(K [< job grade above their last permanent
«;yc auer a iay-on, seniority

frees involved are qualified to perform the JO and that the recall does not take them to a posted position.
Seniority alone will be thedetermiiufj; factors on reran* tojobs in Grade 1,1 z 3.
For a recall of one week or less, e*nboyee($) will be contacted by telephone only (from layoff from outside the plant). J; n the case where the employee is given less than 4 hours notice and may have ||rior commitinents that prevent them from returning to work, they will wai||M their recall right until the next recall requirement.
Employees who have gained seniority, and are informed in writing that they are downgraded as a reduction of the Workforce and seniority has been exercised shall:
(i>	retain their rate for the balaiw ! of the week.
(2)	retain their ratefor the three 3) following full weeks.
Employees will requalify for rate re tntion when they meet the terms of 17.02(a), or 17.02(b), or are downgraded! c a position for a period exceeding one
-24
scheduled week, following ihe comjpleilon of any previous period of rate
retention.
17.03(c)
The provision of 17.03(a) concerning t temporary transfers and temporary job
ite retention shall not apply in the cases ol costings,
ARTICLE 1I Severance P$y
18.01
18.02
18.03
Severance Pay
Employees with 3 years seniority at th< for more than one year (as per 15.03(11) two weeks pay <80 his. at the employe*' year of service.
time of lay off and who remain on lay of! I) will receive severance pay at the rate ol s straight time classified job rate) for each
The one year period the employee has been on lay off, in this instance will not be considered to be part of the employees service for severance pay calculation purposes	I
In the case of the Company dosing ana relocating the plant, all present employees would be offered employment before |ny new employees would be hired within three months of the move. If no employment b available, the employee would receive severance as outlined in article 18.01 and Che ora year waiting period would not apply. Should an employee choose not to relocate, the above provisions for severance pay would continue to apply.
19.01
19.02
ARTICLE I)
Leave of Aba nee
The Company m y grant leave of absence without pay to an employee provided that such absence does not adversely affect the operations of the Plant. Leave of absence m y be granted for legitimate personal reasons.
Application for leave of absence \ be made in writing by the employee to his/her immediate Supervisor. The iployee should provide as much notice in writing as possible,
A written decision on requests for l s of absence will be provided within thirty days of tie request and such approve dll not be revoked.
However, written approval for lea\ cf absence during June, July and August
25-
19.03
20.01(a)
20.01(b)
20.02
20.03
20.04
20.05
may not be given prior lo May 31 [of the same year as requests for vacations by employees with vacation entitlemetts ereater than the Plant shutdown must first be satisfied.
Leave of Absence for Pregnancy (natural or adoptive mother) and Parental Leave (natural and adoptive parents) will be in accordance with tire provisions of the Ontario Employment Standards Act
Employees shall continue to accrti: seniority up to the end of the seventeenth week of maternity leave, at which lime the employee shall be required to decide whether to return to work or lose seniority as of that date.
ARTICl 3 20 Genet >1
Employees shall be granted a fifteqp minute rest period in each consecutive four hours worked.
Such rest periods shall be paid fot at the employee’s regular rate and shall not result in lengthening the regular wo king day.
Lunch periods will be cnehalf
hoc'
and-one half hour period after the fi st lunch break has oamnencsd in each shill.
duration, and will be completed within one-
Reasonable and necessary leave for normally without loss of pay.
Bereavement and Jury Duty will be provided
Reference for Maintenance Emploj Department Section in Article 22 Agreement.
only: Items contained in the Maintenance supersedes similar articles in the Collective
Employees reporting for work as u ual on a regular working day, unless notified prior to the beginning of his/her shift not to report, and for whom no work at his/her regular job is available, shall be offered at least four hours employment in other work at the employee's current rate of pay, or. at the Company’s option, will be paid four hours pay in lieu o ' work.
This provision shall not apply if the a strike or other work stoppage, mslldiinety or other like cause beyond thecontr I
Officers and representative of the l nit will be admitted to the Company pr a of handling matters involving the
Mure to provide work is caused by reason of breakdown, fire, flood, power failure of the Company.
lion who are not employees of die Company raises at ail reasonable times for the purpose relationship between the Company and the
20.06
20.07
20.08
20.09
20.10
20.11
20.12
20.13
20.14
Union arising from this agreement, provided that they first notify and obtain the
tec. It it understood that such approval
any .person so admitted will not abuse
approval of the Plant Manager or desij wilt not be unreasonably withheld and the privilege of admittance.
The Company will provide the Union viith adequate separate notice board space for the purpose of posting notices of Ui ion Activities. All such notices must be signed by the Union President or the Vice President, in the absence of the President.
The Company agrees to give 36 hours' otice of lay-off or eight hours pay at the employee's regular rate in lieu thei sof, except where such lay-off is 9 consequence of machinery breakdown, a| act of God, fire, flood, power failure oi other like causes beyond the control of tl s Company.
When an employee changes his/her add that the employee notify his/her super ii Company will accept no liability until it
ess and/or phone number it is importam isor, in writing, of such change. The s notified of such changes.
Supervisory employees shall not perfon i bargaining unit except: (1) in emerg i breakdown of equipment, or danger to regular employees are not immediately of employees.
work on a job classification within die incies, limited expressly to immediate be equipment or to the employee, wher i /ailable, (2) in the instruction or training
The Company will appoint Lead Hands set forth in Appendix A of this agreemei |t. of a Lead E&xi will not include die righ
jk Acting Supervisors at the rate of pay . It is understood that the responsibility to discipline employees.
The Company will describe the duties description will be retained on record appointing of Acting Lead Hands or A( six (26) week duration.
of a Lead Hand in writing and sue! etween the parties hereto agreed. The Supervisors are limited to a twenty
Employees in the bargaining unit membership to the Unilever Employee's
Appendices A. B, &, C, hereby form par
For the purpose of this clause a studen September30th of a calendaryear.
II select a representative from theii tension Counsel.
si all
of this agreement
Summer students who indicate by signii g to that effect that they intend to return to school will not gain seniority. Shot Id a student wish to become a full time employee they must apply and be accept d by the Company into a permanent job.
may be employed between May 1st and
The Company agrees to pay the full cos) of one pair of safety boots or shoes pet
twelve month period for employee^ to a maxi mm cost of
20.15
20.16
20.17
20.18
footwear mand areas of th
in the employee being denied compliance is observed. The anniversary date is to remain a pair of safely footwear has been frame.
Plant. Failure to wear sarety snoes win result ccess to their work area without pay until Union endorses this safety measure. The c instant except in instance where an additional s ipplied at no cost within the twelve month time
The Company will pay foil cost replacement tens as required (up employees required to wear preset
Any reduction in E.I. Premiums, ough
Calendars wilt be printed in the ba k of the Collective Agreement.
Any Letters of Understanding or both parties currently in effect w
of purchase of prescription safety glasses and to a maximum limit set by the Company) to ption safety glasses on their job.
Deluding the employees portion received by the i nproved benefits.
Memorandums of Agreement duly signed by II remain in effect unless specifically modified
21.01(a)
ARTICLE 21
Bern its
ospital 1 isura the Co trae by thqCom
21.01(b) All eligible employees will be Cunxrcu for the following benefits
Life Insurance - .5 x base pay plu; credit dollars,
Weekly Indemnity - 70% or 1001 > for 25 weeks based on service
Long Term Disability beyond 26 weeks.
70% oi
pre-disability base pay for eligible disabled
EMPLOYEE BENEFIT OPTIONS:
Eligible employees make personal choices regarding;
Health coverage Dental Coverage
Accidental Death and Dismemberment
Optional Life Insurance.
Benefit Credits and Prices:
Annual adjustments to Benefit Credits and Prices for fleallh and Dental coverage will be made using the following principles:
1.	Benefit prices and credits will be set annually 1 y the company in line with the economy and with the plans' prior year experience.
2.	Credits will be reviewed annually and may b adjusted to reflect market place wage increases.
3.	Prices of individual benefits will be set a nually based upon two factors; plan experience and health and dental cost trends.
Life Insurance Credits remain a set percentage of base pay.
21.01(c) Employees retiring after February 16, iw)0 will receive a Paid Up Life Insurance Policy of $4,000.
21.01(d) Employees retiring after Febniaiy 16, 1|P99 will receive Major Medical coverage of $12,000 maximum lifetime.
21.01(e)
The above coverage and payment schedule and any other company benefits applies only to employees with senio ity who are actively at work for the company with the following exceptions:
1) an employee who is absent fro In work as a consequence of an injury arising out of his/her employment with the Company and who is compensated under the Workers! Compensation Act for up to two years from date of injuiy.
2) a female employee who is on pnjki to 35 weeks (17 weeks of pi delivery, plus 18 weeks of parent i] parental leave up to 18 week!;, pregnancy related complications,
3)	up to the end of the month in wl life insurance which continues
nancy leave and/or parental leave of up ignancy leave, not including week of ,1 leave). A father or adoptive parent on Benefits will be extended if there are jp to a maximum of one year.
month in which the layoff occumw
t ch
any employee is laid off. Except for to the end of the month following die
.29.
4)	up to (he end of the monthl following (he month in which an employee commences a leave of absent e.
5)	up to one year for employee! absent due to sickness.
ARTICLE 22
MAINTENANCE DEPARTMENT SECTION
22.01(a)
22.01(b)
Overtime
Overtime in the Maintenance Deptu
t will be equally distributed as follows:
Overtime, excluding call-ins, willl be distributed to the employees who are qualified to perform the required overtime work. Overtime hours refused will be recorded as if worked. For the purpose of equal distribution of overtime, a list of all overtime hours worked will b recorded whether the employee works or declines or is not available to work overtime. The employee® with the lowest overtime hours recorded will be ret Hired to work as assigned if other employees are unavailable or decline the overtii k offered.
The tram equal distribution will be defined as a maximum of 24 hours between the qualified employees) with the n ost overtime hours recorded and the qualified employee(s) with the least bouts recorded.
If the difference in hours is more than 24 between the low qualified employee® in recorded hours and the high qualified employee® in recorded hours as of Wednesday at 7:00 am., of each work week, then the qualified employee(s) with the lowest hours recorded will be I aid the difference between the high qualified employee® hours recorded in excet i of 24 hours. Employees will start with zero overtime hours recorded each Jfanua y 1st.
Failure of a Relief Employee to A| pear
If overtime is required to be liorked through the failure of a relieving maintenance employee on die following shift to appear on time, the qualified employee with the lowest overtime hours on the shift that is ending will be required to work. The two hour nojice period referred in 12.05(a) does not apply to the circumstances staled in this section. Tfe Supervisor will, whenever possible, endeavourto obtain another qualified replacement.
22.02
Call-hl Procedure
22.03
3boL Allowance
22.04
22.05
22.06
2WL allowance will be paid to Malntjlnance Mechanics, Packaging Mechanics, Machinists and Electricians who are In the payroll on January 15th and have completed their probation period:
Year I $135.00 Year2 $135.00 Year 3	$145.00
Year 4	$145.00
Upon reaching the first anniversary of the apprenticeswould receive their first
iheir start in the apprenticeship program, year tool allowance.
After that they would receive it on Jbau ry 15 with the rest of maintenance.
The purpose of the tool allowance is to lost through pilferage. The Company
•eplace tools worn or broken on thejob or agrees to replace required tools that are
stolen from a sturdily locked tool chest m the employees cfE shift.
The Company also agrees to pay up to (1,200.00 should the entire tool chest and its contents be lost through burglary or |iiie.
f&oathcns
The Company agrees that by Februfy 15th of each year that maintenance employees will be infomted of the nor :«r of maintenance employees that will be required to work the plant shutdown.
Scheduling will be by job classificatioi
and plant seniority. Preferences will be
given to senior employees as to whe ter they wish to work or take vacation during the plant shutdown.
‘In tlE event that a substantial numl isr of employees wish to schedule their vacation during the plant shutdown, twin junior employees by job classification will be scheduled and required to work.!
Tarcraag
The Company will pay the full cost Dffall compulsory trade licences as required by the Province.
Contractors
A list of capital projects will be provided by the Plant Manager to the Union
■ 31 •
22.07
22.08
22.09
22.10
President no later than January 31 Ml of each year. Contractors will be limited to completing Capital Project work.
Educallon/Tralnlng
it is agreed that Maintenance Personnel will be trained on new equipment but not necessarily by seniority.
Apprenticeship Erograns
Die apprenticeship program now document presented by He Compat Human Resources Department u pn
n place is subject to the guidelines cf the The document may be obtained from the •equest.
Die list used currently for shift nftation for each of the trade groups will be posted by the Supervisor within tile specific areas. Future requirements may cause the method of rotation to chanle.
All other provisions of the Collectii the Collective Agreement also apply|
i Agreement not contained in this section of ) Maintenance Employees.
23.01
ART1CL$23 Termination
This agreement shall remain in foiw for a period of four years from February 16, 1999 and shall continue in face from year to year thereafter unless in any year not more than sixty days, and not less than thirty days, before the date of its termination, either party shall fttrnish the other with notice of termination cf or proposed revision of this agreement
*32-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF each of the parties hereto htjls caused this agreement to he signed by its duly authorized representativesas of the day and year first above written.
UPTON
A DIVISION OF UL CANADA INC.
P. LYNCH, Vice President of Human Resources L. CADEAU, Hman Resources Manager J. GROVES, Plant M1"ger
BAKERY, >	10NERY, TOBACCO WORKERS
ANDGI I	ERS INTERNATIONAL UNION
I ITS LOCAL UNIpiY 327G
T. WINSTONE. Prefident Local 327G I
S.	GRIMM, International Vic: President Bakery. Confectionery,Tbbacco W orkers and Grain Millers International Union L. SAVARD, Vice Presidenl laical 327G R. HEDLEY, Treasurer, l|ot:al 327G G. McBRIDE, Recording SecRpry, Local 327G
-33-
ARTICL1 24
Health &! ifety
24.01 The company shall make reasonabl provisions for the Health and Safety of its employees during working hours, 'he Company and the Union shall tee their best endeavour to require all emplo; «s to comply with the Brampton Health and Safety Policy.
APPEND C A WAGE SCH DULE
EFFECTIVE FEBRl ARY 16.1999
PAYMENT OF WAGES - Weekly
SHIFT PREMIUM
Employees assigned to the afternoon (C) drift, n flit (A) shift or Night Sanitation crew, will receive a shift premium pet hour as set out below:
C	A
.40	.60
The shift premium will be paid on overtime worke | ;at the rate of the scheduled shift. Such shift premium will not he added to the employee's rater :n computing overtime.
LEAD HANDS
The Lead Hand Rate is $1.00 per hour. Job Grade! rltr Lead Hands are as follows:
Sanitation	-Grade 7
Warehouse	-	Grade	8
soup Packaging Department	-	Grade	9
Process Department	-	Grade	9
Maintenance Department	-	Grade	1
An acting Supervisor will receive the rate of 75 dents per hour in addition to the Job Rate. Should a Lead Hand be appointed to Acting Sulervisor, 75 cents per hour will be paid in addition to the Lead hand rate of $1.00.
-34-
Effective		Effective	Effective	Effective
rads Feb.	16. 1999	Feb. 16. 2000	Feb. 16. 2001	Feb 16. 2002
	2%	2%	2%	2%
1	16.26	16.59	16.92	17,26
2	17.29	17,64	17.99	18.35
3	17.81	18.17	18,53	18.90
4	18.45	18,82	19.20	19,58
5	18.85	19.23	19.61	20,00
6	19.42	19.81	20.21	20.61
7	20.08	20.48	20.89	21.31
8	20,66	21.07	21.49	21.92
9	21.44	21,87	22.31	22.76
10	22.72	23.17	23.63	24.10
11	23.30	23,77	24.25	24.74
		MAINTENANCE CftlOUP		
&1 Labour	17.29	17.64	17.99	18.35
MM4	23.30	23.77	24.25	24.74
MM3	23,88	24,36	24,85	25.35
MM2	24.60	25.09	25.59	26.10
$0.25 premium for Gas Fitter Maintenance Certificate on Grandfathered basis for current maintenance employees only.
Maintenance Plus Rate: paid when an additional certifi ate is acquired above the MM2 level and the applicable practical training is completed. Rc lognired certificates include: Industrial Electrician, Electrician. Industrial Mechanic (Milli right), Upton Industrial Maintenance Mechanic Progran, Programable Logic Control ot Packaging Maintenance Certificate or completion of a i
Plus Rate effective:
February 16, 1999 - $0.75 February 16, 2000-$0.77 February 16,2001-$0.79 February 16,2002 -$0.81
Job List - February lj(>. 1999
Job Grade2
Job Grade 3
General Labour (Packer) Storekeeper Helper Ingredient Feeder (Taco)
Chute Filler Palletizer
•35*
Packaging Machine! Cleaner L-Bar $ealer/Edson|Operator Building Ctesr- i sanitation
Job Grade 4
Job Grade 5	•	Store Keeper
Process/General CWSner
Job Grade 4	-	Reclaim Operator • 'rocess
warehouse Person Utility Person - Tic Bartelt Operator Taco Operator
Job Grade 7
Job Gradef
Palletizing Operator Utility Person - Sou i Side-Seam Gluer Oj aator/Paeker
Twret/Counter Bala ice Operator Receiver • Raw Mat rials Whse.
Job Grade? - Noodle Operator
Stockperson • Process Pest Controller Mixing operator
Job Grade 1ft	Baker
Job Grade 11
Maintenance Mechalih :ClassMlcatlon
Processing MuiIbhxb Mechanic packaging Maintenance Mechanic Electrical Maintenance Mechanic Taco Maintenance Mechanic Lift Vehicle MaintenanceMechanic PreventativeMaintenance/Project Mechanic
-36-
APPENDIX I
JOB EVALUATION I V'STEM
This letter refers to the Job Evaluation system for job* in the Bargaining Unit at Brampton, put into effect in October 1970,
Both the plan and its administration are modelled aftsr Lever Detergents Ltd. The following guidelinesare*d
tout not exactly the same as, that used by ipted.
1.	The classification of jobs and the wage scale to whjjcti such Classification is related is set out in ScheduleA hereto.
2.	Subject to clause (4) below there shall be no chads* during the life of this Agreement in the job rates as set forth in Appendix "A", except to to those rates established to cover any new jobs established. If subsequently, as die result of the Lipton Job Evaluation Plan, die resulting rate is higher, it shall be retroactive to djP ‘date the job commenced. However, if tte resulting rate is lower than the tentative rate, w ntte adjustment shall be made currently.
3.	(a) New jobs established shall be evaluated as proi lptJy as is reasonable by the Management
Evaluation Committee on the basis of Liptort J >b Evaluation Plan, with the result being submitted to the Union for review.
<b> If the Union is not in agreement with raj Evaluation Committee, they shall, within ten the evaluation was submitted for their review, Resources Manager.
(c)	If such a protest is filed, a meeting shall be between die Management Evaluation Commi' discuss such differences as may exist.
s ranged within ten regular working days and the Union Review Committee to
(d)	Within five regular working days of such md® ^.g, the Human Resources manager shall communicate to the Union die decisionof die Ma nagement Evaluation Committee.
(e)	The evaluated rate shall then be made effective job, subjeetto Clause (2) above.
(0 If the decision of the Management Evaluate1 Union, they shall within ten regular working < ays to the umpire.
(g) Ihe umpire shall then judge die issue as preP Evaluation Plan, and his decision shall be fin^l
(h) Each party shall bear one-half the expense ofdjp Umpire
evaluation made by the Management gular working days of the date on which file in writing a protest with the Human
au of the commencement date of die new
Committee is not satisfactory to the , request that the matter be submitted
: ittid solely on the basis of the Lipton Job mid binding on both parties.
-37-
(I) to respect to all new jobs and jobs involving re-evaluation, the Company agrees to adhere to a 30 calendar days time limit, m regards to a final decision on the above said new job or re-evaluation.
(i>
Time limits provided above m^' be extended by mutual consentof the patties.
4.
5.
6.
Jobs shall be re-evaluated as promptly as i reasonable by the Management Evaluation Committee on written request ty either emp oyee, the Union or the Company, providing there is sufficient evidence submitted to shot that there has been sufficient change in job content that a change of at least one degris i in one or more factors can be reasonably anticipated. The re-evaluation shall concern it <:If solely with the change. The same process shall be followed to resolve differences as provided for new jobs, except that the re-evaluation rate shall become effective on the< ate the request for re-evaluation was received by the Hunan Resources Manager. A quest! >n of whether or not there has been sufficient change injob contentmay also be submitted tc the Umpire.
Any rate for a new job or a re-evaluation Jot j following the date Management’s rating is off*
shall be implemented on the second Monday jitilly provided by the Union.
During the life of Che Agreement, the Umpire In respect to job evaluation will be a person as may be mulally agreed by the parties. Failing mutual agreement, either party may request theMnistH: of Labour for Ontarioto appoint i person who is conversant with Job Evaluation as an Umpire.
7. An employee holding a Red Circle Rate will ■ icelve no increase as long as he/she holds the job and until the rate for the job equates with tis/her Red Circle Rate. At that point he/she will cease to be Red Circled.
To facilitate the prompt disposition of jobs betn ; evaluated, it is the intent of the parties to schedule meetings no less than o m per month untp such time as all jobs are current.
-38-
APPENDIX 4 Salary Plan!
Cn December I, 1970 the hourly-rate system was r4: designed to protect one’s income when prevented fror reasons judged fcy the Company to be bona fide. Th system during the so-called “waiting period" in case Indemnity Plan will go into effect.
Calculation of the Sa try Plan
Your weekly salary will be forty times your current h urly rate as established by the collective agreement.
The arrangement will not affect your unemployment in urance coverage. You and the Company will continue to make the usual contribution and you frill be eligible for the same benefits that you are now.
placed with a salary plan system. It is attending work for occasional illness or plan provides continuity of your salary of lengthy illness and then the Weekly
The Salary Plan, as outlined above will be paid on a wdbkly basis.
Administration of the S
The essential rule is that you keep your Supervisor full • for them. There will also be some circumstances wto : doctor regarding the state of your health during or after
ilary Plan
' advised of any absence and the reasons i he/she will request a statement from a in illness.
The plan is a means of income continuance, not an approval for truancy. Therefore, if an employee is frequently absent • regardless of the reasor for the absence • his/her case will come under review just as it does now. It is costly and unfi r to continue to extend privileges to any who abuse them and it is the Company’s responsibility o discontinue their services if they prove they are unwilling to successfully maintain satisfactory rvels of attendance.
It is Important that we remember, continued excess? 5 plant absenteeism may jeopardize the continued existence of Salary Plan benefits as they exist pi present.
-39-
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING • Inclement Wleather
is: Article
20.04
Should the Company decide to close the plant due to extremely bad weather conditions, (i.e. severe snow stoim) every reasonableeffort will be i tade to
a) Contact employeesof theaffected shift prior td Jhe start of the shift.
b) Request the local radio station,CFRB Radio 1010 and CFTR 680 News, to announceclosure of the plant.
Employees should, in such circumstances, attempt |> contact the Company to determine whether it will be operating or not.
As such a plant closure is beyond the control of tie Company, affected employees will not be paid reporting pay whether they manage to report 01 not.
wi: i
if, during a period of bad weather conditions, (he employees reacting for work will be provided who do not report for work as scheduled what the He exceptions to the above will be when an emploj received emergency treateroent or is treated by i prevented him or her from working on the day(s) i must be certified in writingby a medical practitione He Salary Plan does not supersede the provisk Agreement which addresses itself to the Company’s ability to rqpcrt to work as outlined in the Salary PI
Company decides to continue its operations, a minimtsn of 4 hours work. Employees plant continues operations will not be paid, se is on Company sick leave, is hosptialized, physician, for reasons which would have ’ inclement weather, the above exceptions
ns of Article 20, 20,04 ef the Collective inability to provide work not an individual's
Dated this 11th day of August 1985,
Signed for the Conpany
M.E, DOUGLAS	J.B. KftOEZE
S, ASHBY	G.B. KfURDOCH
Signed for the Union this 11th day, August, 1985
F, YUSUF	L, McfOOMBS
R, HEDLEY	O, MeBRJDE
R. CARVER-SMITH
40
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING Re: Inventory
The taking of inventories is not considered to be baiiaining unit work; however, when extra personnel are required in addition to the management |nd clerical staff, such employees will be selected in the following manner.
1)
Senior qualified employees working in the Deplrrtment.
2) Senior qualified employees working outside lh< Depanment.
All interested employees must sign a posted list in prder to be considered for work on an inventory.
Dated this 17th day of August, 1987.
Signed for the Company
J.B. KROtZE
O.O. MLnlnnrH
M.B. DOUGLAS S, ASHBY
Signed for the Union
C. WAMBOLDT	L. McCOtfMBS
R. HEDLEY	G. McBRiPE
B. TIMBERS
•4I
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING Rc; Skilled ijrades Premium
The Company and Union agree to tte institution of skilled Trades premium by the Company of $1.43 per hour to all Maintenance Personnel in addi ion to the previously negotiated rates of pay. This premium is to be a one-time adjustment and \ ill remain separate from the negotiated rates of pay. For example, Job Grade 10 (Pkg., Gen Maint. Mechs., Elects. & Machinist) will receive $14.82 + $1.43 = $16.25 per hour effect!1 e December 1, 1987 and on February 16/88 they will receive$15.43 t $1.43 = $16.86 p/h anc on February 16/89they will receive $16.20 + $1.43 - $17.63 p/h. The same formula would; ppty to all other skilledjob classifications in the Maintenance Department. Overtime rates will b t calculatedon the total of the negotiated rate and the skilled Trades Premium combined.
Subject to the terms and conditions above, it is ftirtl s of fie agreed to Apprenticeship Program, the com; in the program, the Company will post for two ap|
er agreed that effective upon implementation y agrees that based on the criteria described ntices in the required trades.
Agreed to this date November 26th, 1987 at Bramplpn, Ontario. Signed for the Company
M.E. DOUGLAS	J.B. KJtOEZE
S. ASHBY	G.B. MURDOCH
Signed fortheUniai
C. WAMBOLDT	L. McfOOMBS
R. HEDLBY	G. McflWDE
B. TIMERS
-42*
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING Re: Guideline to Overtime Distribution
1.	When overtime is required, the supervisor will ask the person with the lowest overtime as per 12.06 (a) (1st). The critical issue here being "posted" to the job and low overtime. If "posted" employee, for whatever reason, has ofcen temporarily assigned somewhere else, he/she is still entitled to be asked to work overtitjpe.
2.	After exhausting all the steps of 12.06(a) aid jho one was found to work (he overtime, 'permanent posted" person with the lowest overtime charged will be required to work.
3.	12,06 (a) Step 5: Qualifiedemployeesworking|>uuide the department
A procedure, for distributing overtime equallyjoutside the department are not available, therefore, the clause is not applicable.
A master list of employees" qualified" for all Jobs will be kept and updated by Human Resources. This will provide gu idance for selecfcn at Step 5.
4.	Qualified has two definitions.
(a)	permanently posted for six (6)w«ks or p|re
(b)	someone who has filled the requirements a| per the training master
It is understood that tea ten (10) days of tracing are representative of the normal job content.
Therefore, in steps 3 and 5, overtime will ins lllistributed first to people qualified under definition (a) and then under definition (b) before]moving to the next step.
5.	if two (2) people have equal overtime charged, tl|e senior person will be asked first.
6.	if person refused overtime, providing the 2 houfj limit of 12.05 (a) or the 40 hour limit of 12,04 have been met, the person will be cha|ged regardless of the reason with these exceptions:
if a member of the union executive, steward or committee member is required to attend and attends a union activity, tfien no charging will id irplace on refusal.
A two-tier charging method will be establish d. One list is just for work in their classification. The second list is all overtime worked in or outside classification and department. This way working outside one'ls |lass does not limit one's availability for work inside their classification.
7.	If the conditions of 12.05 (a) and 12.04 are not met, but the person works the overtime, the person will be charged, if a person refused, no charging will lake place.
8.	Employees eligible to be asked to work overtime, out not available for overtime, will be
-43-
charged the actual number of hours if ei (Hied under equal distribution, in their job classificationduring (he period. Employees *ho are laid off will have their overtime hours averaged when (hey are recalled. The only exception would be when an employee is on vacation entitlement or union business.
9.	If the Company has a duty io call a person kt home, then a refusal will be charged. If no
rnntart ie mart* with th* Mmw «n rhirniiMnuill tota
IN WITNESS THEREOF, thirties mentioned hflvt executedthis Agreement this eth day of July, 1999.
FOR THE EMPLOYER	=OR THE UNION:
LtPTON	.1AKERY,	CONFECTIONERY,
TOBACCO WORKERS AND ORA1N IvflLLERS INTERNATIONAL UNION. 3270
Lily Cadean
Human Resources Manager

Tom Winstone Local President	
	
'LeonSavard ILocal Vice President	
	
Local Banding Secretary
Robert Hediey	r
Local Treasurer
i Grimm
Internatioflai Vice-President
-48
esjlo Overtime Distribution
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING Re: Guldclln II to Overtime Distribution
1.
Wheu overtime is required, the supervisor will a I per 12.06 (a) (1st). The critical issue here being “posted” employee, for whatever reason, has be he/she is still entitled lo be asked to work overtiirf
Ik the person with the lowest overtime as ‘posted” to the job and low overtime. It :n tempt rarily assigneJ somewhere else.
2.	After exhausting all the steps of 12.06(a) and iljo one was found to work the overtime, “permanent posted” person with the lowest oveitgne charged will be required to work.
3.	12.06 (a) Step 5: Qualified employees working dutside the department.
A procedure, for distributing overtime equally futside the department are not available, therefore, the clause is not applicable.
A master list of employees “qualified” for all jjbbs will be kept and updated by Human Resources. This will provide guidance for selecdjpn at Step 5.
4.	Qualified has two definitions.
(a)	permanently posted for six (6) weeks or metre
(b)	someone who has filled the requirements as per the training master
It Is understood that these ten (10) days of trailing are representadve of the normal job
content.
Therefore, in steps 3 and 5, overtime will be i istributed first to people qualified under definition (a) and then under definition (b) before noving to the next step.
5.	If two (2) people have equal overtime charged, th: senior person will be asked first.
6.	If person refused overtime, providing the 2 hour limit of 12.05 (a) or the 40 hour limit of 12.04 have been met, the person will be chatjged regardless of the reason with these
exceptions:
If a member of the union executive, steward or cqmnunee member is required to attend and attends a union activity, then no charging will tafc : place on refusal.
A two-tier charging method will be establish d. classification. The second list is all overtime ' department. This way working outside one's < lass does not limit one's availability for work inside their classification.
One list is just for work in their worked in or outside classification and
7.	If the conditions of 12.03 (a) and 12.04 are no person will be charged. If a person refused, n
t, but the person works the overtime, the arging will take place.
8.	Employees eligible to be asked to work over , but not available for overtime, will be
-43-
charged the actual number of hours if chilled under equal distribution, in their job classification during the period. Employeesjwho are laid off will have their overtime hours averaged when they are recalled. Die cnlf exception would be when an employee is on vacation entitlement or union business.
9.	If the Company has a duty to call a persontlat home, then a refusal will be charged. If no contact ismade with the person, no charging "will take place,
10.	If a person is late, and works overtime at th end of the regular core shift hours, the person will be charged overtime hours worked afte: the end of the core shift hours.
It. All overtimewill be charged at straight h at s and regardless of rate paid.
12.	On a (2) shift operation, if overtime was rex tired:
(I) provision of 12.04 must be met.
(ii) The "posted' person with the lowest overtime would be asked first (12.06)(a), then the "pcsbad' person with the next lowest ovptime would be asked and so on (until the requirement is met) regardless of what shiftlthey waked on Friday, filling the B shift first and then the C shift if retired.
Ail hours scheduled ho be worked on Sattfday are added to overtime hours before Sunday selections. Sunday shift would follow the at ne procedure as Saturday.
(Ill) In all these cases, if scheduling is require#' P32**1 with the lowest O.T. would be required io work.
13.	Shiftman - Is the person who has the lowe4 overtime hours in (he particular classification on shift.
14.	If two (2) or more people are posted in a tan porary job:
(a)lhe temporary with the lowest overtime w tuld be asked first as in 12 above.
(b) the temporary posted employee wouk and Tow” overtime hours of the other
15.	Overtime will be scheduled as per (he Bmplt yment StandardsAct
16.	Ch a tires (3) shift operation, if overtime t|as recjrired overtime will be scheduled like in Section 12 in order cf shifts, A, B, and C.
enter the job with the average of the "high" emporaries.
Signed this Sthdaycf June, 1990.
-44
For the Company:
K.V. BASSETT PLANT MANAGER
G.B. MURDOCH PRODUCTION MANAGER
B RJSSCl
PERSONNEL MANAGER
J. GROVIS
PROJECT
'COORDINATOR
For the Union:
K. EATON LOCAL PRESIDENT
R. HEDL ;Y LOCAL! IEASURER
T. WINSTONE LOCAL VICE PRESIDENT
G.McBRJ 3E
LOCAL RECORDING SECRETARY
S . GRIMM
INTERNATIONAL VICE-PRESIDENT A.F.G.M.
-45-
POSTING
WEEKEND OVERTIME] VOLUNTEER LIST GUIDELINES
Anticipated requirement by classification,
Posted in cafeteriaon Tuesday by U;0O a.ml until Wednesday at 10:00 a.m,
Confirmation of employees working posted Wednesday by 3:00 p,m. (Both volunteers and if required, scheduled employees)
•	If additional shifts or jobs are required aftertle Weekend Overtime Volunteer List is posted
(Tuesday at 11:00 am.) then Article 12.06(a) would be used lo fill the requirement. If no volunteers are found, then employees will besche|u!ed and the names posted as per Article 12.04,
OVERTIME HOURS CHARGED
Employees eligible for overtime who did no| volunteer by signing the volunteer list will be charged refusal.
Should scheduling of employees for overtir u then all qualified employees who did not vol ,i the requirementlist is equivalent to asking ei
le be required due to insufficient volunteers, inteer will be charged refusal aa the posting of :r iployees if they wish to work overtime.
VOLUNTEERING FOR MORE THAN ONE C lASSIFf CATION
If employees wish io be considered for ove time in more than one classification they are qualified for, they must indicate this by slgni ig the list(s).
Employees must accept overtime opportunity in their own classification and department first.
QEF SICK DURING POSTING OF O.T. REOIIilREMENT LIST
Employees off sick at time of posting mus| advise the appropriate Supervisors) of their wish to work prior to posting expiration in older to be considered.
CONSIDERATION OK ADDITIONAL VOLUNTEERS AFTER POSTING EXPIRATION
- Only if scheduling is required, will additlo ^1 volunteersbe considered for O.T, after the posting expires.
RATE OF PAY
Paid at employees basic rate or rate of the j< whichever Is higher
It is understood that the parties may agree to ame these guidelines from time to time.
MEMORANDUM OF A< JEEMENT
Signed this 6*1 day of June, 1999. SIGNED AND AGREED TO FOR UPTON
SIGNED AND AGREED TO FOR
BAfERY, confectionery, toiacco workers and grain MILLERS INTERNATIONAL UNION. 3c l±


Paul Lynch Vice President, Human Resources

Ji Groves Flsbt Manager

Lily Cadeau Human Resources Manager

■-rX
%6v d-.-CV /T'?:-/$/U A ria McBride al Recording Secretary

l wn Grimm
Intiimationa] Vice-President
47-
IN WITNESS THEREOF, die parties mentioned »ve executed this Agreement this 8th day of July, 1999.
FOR THE EMPLOYER	FOR THE UNION:
LIPTON	BAKERY,	CONFECTIONERY,
TOBACCO WORKERS AND GRAIN MILLERS INTERNATIONAL UNION. 327G

PrimLynch Vice President,

Tom Winstone Local President
i "	«
Leon Savard local Vice President
Lily Cadeau
Hunan Resources Manager
'Gloria McBride
Local Recording Secretary
Robert Hedley	T
local Treasurer
Shawn Grimm
international Vice-President
-48 -