ARTICLE
Recognition Management Rights No Strikes or Lockout!. Union Representation Grievance Discharge Cases
Arbitration ................................. 8
Seniority ................................... 9
Holidays .................................... 16
10,	Vacations .................................. 19
11,	Hours of Work .............................. 22
12,	Overtime ................................... 24
13 Call In Pay................................... 28
14.	Reporting for Work Pay ..................... 29
15.	Miscellaneous Provisions ................... 29
16.	Bulletin Boards ............................ 24
17.	Job Posting ................................ 24
18.	Funeral Leave .............................. 38
19.	Deduction of Union Dues .................... 39
20.	Leave of Absence ........................... 40
21.	Wages ...................................... 41
22.	Health and Welfare ......................... 48
23.	Duration.................................... 49
Letters of Intent ........................... 50
Alternate Work Week Addendum .......
Alternate Work Schedule Addendum Addendum ...........................
MO ? 1 ':'HU
54
54
56
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
BETWEEN:
HERSHEY CANADA INC., Smiths Falls, Ontario (hereinafter referred to as “the Company”) and
RETAIL, WHOLESALE I CANADA, CANADIAN SERVICE SECTOR DIVISION OF THE UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA, LOCAL 461 AFL-CIO, (hereinafter referred to as “the Union”).
ARTICLE 1 - RECOGNITION:
1.01
The Company recognizes the Union as the exclusive bargaining agent of all employees of the Company at Smiths Falls, Ontario save and except supervisors, persons above the rank of supervisor, office and sales staff, laboratory staff, students employed during school vacation period, and persons regularly employed for not more than twenty-four (24) hours per week.
.	, i
1.02	»
Part-time employees will not be used when any fulltime employees, subject to recall, are on layoff except when laid off employees are not available to do bargaining unit work.
ARTICLE 2 - MANAGEMENT RIGHTS:
2.01
Except where specifically abridged by the terms of this Agreement, the management of the Company’s operations and the selection and direction of employees will continue to be vested exclusively with the Company.
Oo^q ((os)
2.02	Discipline and Discharge
The Company has the right to discipline or discharge employees subject to the right of an employee, who has completed his probationary period, to file a grievance alleging such discipline or discharge was without just cause.
2.03	Productivity Clause
The Union and the Company recognize that productivity improvement is essential to the well-being of the employees and the Company. Accordingly, the Union and the Employer will cooperate in efforts to maintain and improve productivity at all levels throughout the Plant. This language shall be interpreted so that it does not conflict with the other articles of agreement.
To achieve this, the management of the Smiths Falls Plant and officers of Retail, Wholesale/Canada, Canadian Service Sector Division of the United Steelworkers of America, Local 461 AFL-CIO, are committed to providing employees a workplace environment that promotes teamwork and the development of multi-disciplined work teams, cooperation, creativity, and the meaningful involvement of employees and their abilities. Creating the highest quality products by continuously improving all that we do is the primary workplace goal. It is intended that this mutual commitment to “Quality Through Excellence” will result in optimum customer satisfaction and, therefore, promote long-term security for Smiths Falls Plant operations and its employees.
The Company and the Union agree to the establishment of joint multi-functional Continuous Improvement teams consisting of members of Management and Union members with the goal of| developing a significant competitve advantage.	'
2
RESPONSIBILITY
The Company and the Union recognize that it is in the best interests of both parties that all dealings between them be characterized by mutual responsibility and respect. Mutual responsibility and respect means an honest regard for equality in the official relationship between the Company and Union representatives. Company representatives, especially the first-level of supervision, have the day to day responsibility to deal reasonably and in good faith with Union representatives. Company representatives have the right to expect in return, responsibility and respect from Union representatives. To insure continually improving relations between the Company and Union, it is in the interest of both parties to deal with one another at all levels in a sincere, honest, and businesslike manner.
ARTICLE 3 - NO STRIKES OR LOCKOUTS:
3.01
The Company will not lock out employees, nor will there be any strikes on the part of the Union or the employees.
3.02
The terms “strike” and “lockout” as used above shall be defined in accordance with the definitions set out in the Ontario Labour Relations Act.
ARTICLE 4 - UNION REPRESENTATION:
4.01
The Union shall have the right to appoint or otherwise select a committee of four (4) employees plus the Plant President of the Union, to participate in the negotiation or administration of this or subsequent agreements.
3
4.02
The Union will appoint or otherwise select a Chief Steward by shift from the existing Stewards on such shift who will act as backup in the absence of the regular department Steward.
4.03
An employee will not be eligible to act as a Steward or member of the Union Committee until after he has completed the probationary period of employment.
4.04
Employees of the Company who are members of the Union Committee, or stewards, have regular duties to perform. Such employees will not leave their work for conducting any business on behalf of the Union or employees, without receiving permission from their immediate supervisor. Such permission will not be unreasonably withheld.
4.05
The Company will reimburse five (5) members of the Committee for up to eight (8) hours straight time pay for time spent during the employee’s regular working hours, Monday to Friday, for negotiating the renewal of the Collective Agreement up to the making of an application for conciliation. I . J) |
ARTICLE 5 - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE:
5,01
The Company and the Union endorse the principle of an orderly grievance procedure and the prompt handling of grievances and to that end will work within the procedure. Any difference between the Company and any seniority employee or the Union shall be taken up in the manner hereinafter set forth:
4
5.02
Union representatives will make every effort to identify the alleged article violated and describe the dates, times, places, and people involved in the incident or occurrence being grieved, when practicable.
5.03
The Company may refuse to consider any complaint, the alleged circumstances of which arose more than eight (8) working days before it was referred to the supervisor.
5.04
Should any difference arise between the Company and any seniority employee or the Union, there shall be no stoppage of work on account of such differences, but an earnest effort should be made to settle such difference in the following manner:
5.05
Any complaint raised by an employee with his supervisor which is not settled within one (1) full working day will, within a further period of two (2) working days, be referred to his supervisor as a written grievance, which will be dated and signed by the employee. During any discussion of a complaint with the supervisor, the employee’s steward will be present if requested by either the employee or the supervisor.
5.06	Step #1
Within three (3) working days following receipt of a written grievance the supervisor and/or such other persons as may be designated by the Company will meet with the employee and the steward to discuss the grievance. Within three (3) working days thereafter, supervisor or his designate will give a written reply to the grievance which shall be copied to the filing Union Steward.
5
5.07	Step #2
If the reply of the supervisor is not satisfactory to the employee concerned, the grievance may, within three (3) working days following the date of the reply at Step 1, be referred to the Manager, Employee Relations. Within five (5) working days thereafter, the Manager, Employee Relations and/or such other persons as may be designated by the Company, will meet with the Union Committee to discuss the grievance. Within five (5) working days following this meeting, the Manager, Employee Relations or his designate will give his written reply to the grievance.
5.08	Step #3
If the reply of the Manager, Employee Relations is not satisfactory to the employee concerned the grievance may within three (3) working days following the date of the reply at Step #3 be referred to the Plant Manager. Within five (5) working days thereafter the Plant Manager and/or such other persons as may be designated by the Company, will meet with the Union Committee to discuss the grievance. At this meeting any regular member of the Union Committee may be substituted by the steward of the department where the grievance arose. A fulltime representative of the Union (ie. Business Agent, etc.) will be present if his presence is requested by either the employee, the Union Committee or the Plant Manager. Within five (5) working days following this meeting the Plant Manager or his designate will give his written reply to the grievance.
5.09
As used in this Article only, the term “working days” shall mean Monday to Friday inclusive.
6
5.10
Any of the time allowance provided above may be extended by mutual consent of the parties involved, such extension of time to be in writing.
5.11
If a grievance is to be referred to arbitration, it shall be done within fifteen (15) days following the date of the reply at Step #3.
ARTICLE 6 - DISCHARGE CASES:
6.01
An employee who has completed the probationary period and who is subsequently discharged by the Company, may submit a written grievance, dated and signed, to the Plant Manager, provided such grievance is submitted within three (3) working days after the discharge occurs.
6.02
Grievances relating to discharge may be settled by confirming the Company’s action, or by reinstating the discharged person with full compensation or by any other arrangement which is just and equitable.
6.03
The Union President shall be present when an employee is to be discharged. In the absence of the President a designate shall be appointed to act on President’s behalf.
6.04
The Departmental Union Steward or the President of the Union (as preferred by the employee) must be present to provide union representation in the event an employee is disciplined or to provide representation in lieu of the union steward in the grievance procedure.
In the absence of the President, a designate shall be appointed to act on the President’s behalf.
6.05
Copies of all discipline and discharge letters shall be provided to the Union President. It is understood that the Union will not move to nullify any disciplinary action if said documentation is not delivered in a timely fashion.
ARTICLE 7 - ARBITRATION:
7.01
No grievance may be submitted to arbitration which has not been properly processed through the stages of the Grievance Procedure, as herein provided.
7.02
When either party requests that a grievance be submitted to arbitration, the party making the request shall do so in writing addressed to the other party, and at the same time appoint an arbitrator. Within five (5) days thereafter, the other party shall appoint an arbitrator. The two arbitrators so appointed shall attempt to select, by agreement a third person to act as Chairman of the Arbitration Board. If they are unable to agree on a Chairman within five (5) days, they will request the Minister of Labour of the Province of Ontario to appoint a chairman.
7.03
No person may be appointed as an arbitrator who has been involved in an attempt to settle the grievance, or who is employed by either party to this Agreement.
7.04
Each of the parties will bear the expenses of the arbi-
8
trator it appoints. The parties will jointly bear the expense of the Chairman.
7.05
The Arbitration Board shall not render any decision which is inconsistent with the terms of this Agreement, nor shall the said board add to, alter, amend or deal with any matter not contained herein.
7.06
A unanimous or majority decision of an Arbitration Board will be final and binding on the parties to this Agreement. If no majority decision is given, the decision of the Chairman will be final and binding.
ARTICLE 8 - SENIORITY:
8.01	f
Any employee hired as a new employee by the Company will be on probation and will not have any seniority standing until after he has completed sixty (.60). days.of work. His seniority will then date back sixty (60) working days from the sixtieth (60) day worked. A probationary employee will have twelve (12) months from the date of hire to accumulate his sixty (60) days. Notwithstanding any other provision contained in the Collective Agreement, the discharge of an employee during his probationary period shall be at the sole discretion of the Company.
8’02	, •... -- . i> !
(a) Lay-off and Recall	3 . i
In all cases of lay-off and recall to work following such lay-off, except lay-offs pursuant to Article 8.02
(b)	, Article 8.02 (e) and Article 8.03, seniority shall be the governing factor providing the employee has the reasonable skill and ability to perform the work
9
required. For the purposes of lay-offs under this section, a lay-off will be for a period exceeding five (5) working days, and the senior employee will be provided with up to five (5) working-days of training. Such an employee will be assigned by the Company to displace an employee with less seniority in his classification or a lower classification subject to the following conditions: 'J 1,1	'
i)	an employee shall retain his rate in his normal
classification for a period up to two (2) months;
ii)	employees who have completed the probationary period will be given a minimum of forty-eight
; ; j (48) hours notice of lay-off except when it is ' beyond the reasonable control of the Company;
iii)	if an employee in Production I or Production II, is displaced from his job and there is no vacancy within the employee’s present class nor in a class below the employee’s present class and a job is being performed by an employee with less seniority than the displaced employee, the Company will assign the displaced employee to a job in Production I, Production IIor Production III.
The following procedure will determine layoff and bumping rights:
1.	The junior person in the affected position within the classification shall exercise bumping rights within the department as follows:
(a)	the most junior person within classification on the bid shift or if there is not a most junior person then,
(b)	the most junior person in the department in a lower classification on the bid shift. or if there
10
is not a most junior person then,
(c)	the most junior person on the bid shift at the Company’s discretion providing such a move does not create a bump up.
2.	Then if there is no junior person on the bid shift,
the employee will displace the most junior person within the Plant, provided such a move does not create a bump up.
3.	Employees who are positioned to displace the most junior person in the Plant (as defined in 2) will be allowed to choose the job of their choice, by seniority. A copy of these job-options (bump list) will be provided to the Union President or his designate.
4.	If their seniority allows it, affected emploees must
exercise their right to displace a junior employee as outlined above.
5.	Employees who elect to take a lay-off rather than
bump into another position because they find the physical demands of the new position to be exces -sive, will remain on lay-off until
(a)	their regular bid position becomes available for a successive three (3) day period or longer as a result of absence of the incumbent employee in situations where it is fully known by all responsible parties that such absence will extend for a minimum of three (3) days; or:
(b)	after three (3) weeks on lay-off those employees will be placed on the Plant-wide bump list, and, if their seniority warrants it, will be offered the opportunity to bump into another position in the Plant.
11
(c)	in keeping with the intent of Article 8.02, the above noted employees must exercise their right to displace a junior employee if their seniority allows it. If, however, the employee legitimately believes after Step (b) that he/she, again, cannot physically do all aspects of the newly assigned position, then he/she will remain on lay-off and be recalled only when his/her regular bid position becomes available.
8.02	(b) Temporary Lay-Offs
A temporary lay-off shall be any lay-off for a period not exceeding five (5) working days or less. For purposes of such lay-offs, a seniority employee who possesses the necessary skills and is fully qualified to immediately perform the work required will be assigned by the Company to displace an employee with less seniority in his classification or a lower classification by bid shift subject to the following conditions:
i)	if an employee in Production I is displaced from his job and there is no vacancy within his present classification,then he will bump
(a)	the most junior Production I or Production II in the department on the bid shift,
OR if there is not a most junior person then
(b)	the most junior Production I or Production II on the bid shift at the Company’s discretion,
OR if there is not a most junior person then
(c)	the most junior Production I or Production II plant wide.
12
8.02	(c)
Unless a ticketed specialist or apprentice no probationary employee will perform bargaining unit work if there is a bargaining unit member on lay-off providing such a move is not a bump up.
8.02	(d)
In transferring employees temporarily from one department to another other than a lay-off situation, the Company will transfer the most junior employee from the department from which the transfer is to be made provided:
i)	That senior employees remaining in the
department do not volunteer.
ii)	That employees remaining in the department are fully qualified to perform the normal duties of the work required in the department from which the transfer is made.
iii)	That such employee is fully qualified to perform the normal duties of the work required.
iv)	Temporary transfers will not exceed four (4) months in duration unless mutually agreed upon by the Company and the Union and the employee involved.
An original temporary transfer created as a result of a Pregnancy Leave of Absence and subsequent temporary transfers associated with the original Temporary Transfer will be excluded from this provision for the duration of the absence.
v)	Temporary transfers of one (1) working day or less can be filled by any employee at the discretion of the Company.
13
vi)	Employees will be advised of the estimated duration of the temporary transfer and will be required to remain on such assignment for its duration. Employees will not be prevented from bidding on and being awarded a Bid Job Posting as a result of a temporary transfer assignment.
8.02	(e)
In cases of permanent lay-off due to amalgamation of
jobs or discontinuation of a job, the following procedure will apply:
i)	The newly created job will be posted as per Article
17.01	and filled as per Article 8.02.
ii)	(a) Any employee displaced by such a job change,
or whose job becomes redundant will displace the most junior employee in his classification on the bid shift,
OR if there is no such junior employee
(b) The most junior person in the next lower classification on the bid shift and such bumping will progress thru each class.
iii)	Then if there is no junior person on the bid shift, the employee will displace the most junior person within the plant provided such a move does not create a bump up.
iv)	In the event an employee displaced by such a job change is unable to perform the job in which this movement places them, he will bump the most junior bid person in the plant on the seniority list regardless of shift , excludingtrades persons.
v)	An employee will be given training for the job and
14
must acquire all the necessary skills to fulfil the scope of the work in a reasonable length of time.
8.03
The Company will not be required to observe the provision of 8.02 for lay-offs of one (1) full shift or less. However, this section shall not be applied for a total of more than six (6) full shifts in any twelve (12) month period. In the event that the Company invokes this article the Company shall provide written notice within 48 hours to the Union President for the purposes of calculating the number of such incidences in the 12 month period as described above.
8.04
Seniority previously accumulated will be lost and employment terminated whenever an employee:
a)	quits his employment or is discharged for just cause;
b)	is absent from work in excess of one (1) day without an explanation satisfactory to the Company;
c)	fails to return to work when recalled from a
lay-off;
d)	is laid off for a continuous period] of twelve (12)
months.	'' . [ ' ,	v
8.05
The Company will contact employees to advise of a recall to work following lay-off. Employees not contacted will be sent a registered letter or telegram addressed to the last address recorded with the Company by the employee.
A person being recalled by registered letter shall signify his intention to return to work within five (5) days after the notice has been sent out and shall return to work within a further two (.2) days.
15
8.06
a)	An up-to-date seniority list, showing the names, seniority dates, bid shifts, bid jobs will be posted on the bulletin board every three (3) months. A copy will be given to the Union President upon request.
b)	Within one month of ratification of the Collective Agreement, the Company shall supply the Union President will a list of all employees (including temporary employees) names, addresses and listed phone numbers. The Company will update this list as required and forward any changes to the Union President.
8.07
Where the Company terminates the work day for a portion of the work force of employee’s before eight (8) hours have been worked, those employees who have the greatest seniority within the affected classifications, within the department will be allowed to leave the plant, provided there are sufficient qualified employees remaining to perform the work.
8.08	L ^ "
In the event of an extensive lay-off due to lack of work, the President will be retained in employment provided the said President has more than three (3) years of seniority and further, provided there is work available he is qualified to perform.
ARTICLE 9 - HOLIDAYS:
9.01
The following days will be recognized by the Company as paid holidays:
New Year’s Day	Labour Day
Good Friday	Thanksgiving
16
Victoria Day	The Day before Christmas Day
Canada Day	Christmas Day
Civic Holiday	The Day after Christmas Day
Floater Holidays (2)
Floating Holidays will be celebrated by each employee on a date to be decided by the Company and the employee. Employees must provide two (2) weeks’ notice as to the day they intend to celebrate the floating holiday. While the Company will make every effort to accommodate employees, the holiday must not interfere with the Company’s ability to meet production requirements. In the event either the Provincial or Federal Government declares another holiday which must be observed and paid, then such holiday shall replace one (1) floating holiday referred to above.
9.02
To qualify for holiday pay, an employee will be required:
(a)	to have completed the probationary period.
(b)	to have worked the scheduled shift on the day immediately preceding the holiday and the scheduled shift on the day immediately succeeding the holiday. However, payment for the holiday will be made if an employee worked during the week in which the holiday occurred, but was prevented from working the days immediately preceding and succeeding the holiday because of lay-off by the Company, due to lack of work, or verified personal illness. Such verification will be in the form of a doctor’s note to be presented upon returning to work.
9.03
Where a paid holiday occurs during an employee’s vacation, the employee will be given a day off with
17
pay in lieu thereof at a time arranged with his supervisor, provided the employee is otherwise qualified to receive pay for the said holiday.
9.04
In the weeks in which paid holidays occur, for purposes of weekly overtime, the work week will be reduced by eight (8) hours for each holiday and overtime will, in such weeks, be paid for the time worked in excess of eight (8) hours daily and the appropriate reduced work week, but not both.
9.05
(a)	Where a paid holiday occurs on a Saturday, it will be celebrated on the immediately preceding Friday. Where a paid holiday occurs on a Sunday, it will be celebrated on the immediately succeeding Monday. Holidays shall be deemed to be on the actual calendar day on which they fall except where changed by Federal or Provincial legislation.
(b)	Employees whose regular schedule consists of eleven and a half (11 1/2) or twelve (12) hours per day, who are originally scheduled to work on a declared holiday as outlined in Article 9.01, and work on such holiday is cancelled by the Company, will receive holiday pay equivalent to the total hours that they were originally scheduled to work on that day subject to the provision of Article 9:02.
9.06
Except for engineers, maintenance and milk receiving, no. employee shall be compelled to work on a paid holiday.
18
ARTICLE 10 - VACATIONS:
10.01
For vacation purposes only, continuous service will be calculated as of June 30th. However, in the year an employee reaches his fifth, tenth, eighteenth, and twenty-fifth year of continuous service, he will receive the additional vacation on his anniversary date. In the following year, his vacation entitlement will be as defined in Article 10.01 and 10,02.
10.02
Vacations with pay will be granted in accordance with the following schedule:
Effective for 1994 Vacations: „
(a One (1) year of continuous service - two (2) weeks.	1
(b)	Five (5) years of continuous service - three
(3) weeks.	_-
(c)	Ten (10) years of continuous service - four (4)
weeks.	•
(d)	Eighteen (18) years of continuous service - five (5)
weeks.	7
(e)	Twenty-five (25) years of continuous service - six (6) weeks.
Effective for 1995 Vacations:
(a)	One (1) year of continuous service - two (2) weeks.
(b)	Five (5) years of continuous service - three (3) weeks.
(c)	Ten (10) years of continuous service - four (4) weeks.
(d)	Eighteen (18) years of continuous service - five (5) weeks.
19
(e)	Twenty-five (25) years of continuous service - six (6) weeks.
Effective for 1996 Vacations:
(a)	One (1) year of continuous service - two (2) weeks,
(b)	Five (5) years of continuous service - three (3) weeks.
(c)	Ten (10) years of continuous service - four (4) weeks.
(d)	Eighteen (18) years of continuous service - five (5) weeks.
(e)	Twenty-five (25) years of continuous service - six (6) weeks.
10.03
Employees with less than one (1) year of continuous service as of June 30th will be paid a vacation allowance in accordance with the Employment Standards Act of the Province of Ontario.
10.04
Payment for vacations will be on the basis of two percent (2%) of an employee’s earnings during the previous vacation year for each week of vacation to which he is entitled.
10.05
All earned vacations must be completed during the twelve (12) months succeeding June 30th. No more than four (4) weeks vacation can be taken at one time without the Company’s permission.
10.06
Where the Company does not close the plant for vacation purposes or a vacation period, vacations will be granted on the basis of seniority by departments, with
20
senior employees being given the first selection of vacation dates. However, this shall not be applied to the detriment of the Company maintaining sufficient employees who are qualified to perform the work. A vacation list will be posted not later than March 15th in each department and choice of available dates will be made by April 15th.
Once the dates have been chosen, no changes may be made except with the consent of the Company. However, those employees who wish to take all or part of their vacations between October 1st and June 30th shall not be required to select the available dates until September 1st. An employee who does not exercise this selection by April 15th or who does not notify the Company by that date that he wishes to postpone his selection until September 1st, will forfeit any right to exercise the terms thereof.
10.07
In the event of a partial vacation shutdown for the summer or Christmas period, a senior employee shall not be forced to take vacation if they have the ability to immediately perform any of the remaining work within the Plant.
10.08
Employees may take one vacation week in increments of less than five (5) days at a time except during the months of June, July and August. Such vacation time will be mutually agreed to between the Company and the employee. Employees must provide two (2) weeks notice as to their vacation request. While the Company will make every effort to accomodate employees, their vacation must not interfere with the Company’s ability to meet production requirements,
21
ARTICLE 11 - HOURS OF WORK:
11.01
The Company does not guarantee to provide work for daily or weekly hours, or for any other hours.
•	-J ’ -I -i , t
11.02	A V / ;	; "
The regular work week will consist of forty (40) hours to be worked in five (5) days of eight (8) hours each day. The days of work starting and quitting times will be determined by the Company in accordance with its requirements. When employees are required to wor.k. a shift on Saturday as a part of their regular work week/ then a premium ofjjpe-doilar and-twenty-five cents^^ ($1.25) per hour will be paid for each regular hour worked on the Saturday shift, and two dallars-($2J10)_=-per hour premium will be paid for each regular hour1/)* " worked on the Sunday sjiift-up to 11:00 p.m. Tht/ooil Saturday and Sunday premiums shall not be considered a part of an employee’s hourly rate and will not be paid for any hours where the overtime rate is applicable.
11.03
Except where it is beyond the reasonable control of the Company, where the days to be worked in a work week are to be changed, any employee involved in the said change will be given a minimum of forty-eight (48) hours notice. Employees will not be required to work shifts where there is not twelve (12) hours off between the end of one shift and the start of the next shift. Where an employee voluntarily works, those hours before 12 shall be paid at overtime rate.
11.04
The lunch period will be one-half (1/2) hour without
pay.
22
11.05
(a)	A rest period of fifteen (15) minutes’ duration will be provided in each half shift, at times designated by the company.
(b)	Where an employee is scheduled to continue working overtime at the end of his regular shift for a period in excess of two (2) consecutive hours he will be provided a fifteen (15) minute paid rest period at the end of his regular shift provided it does not have an adverse effect on productivity. If such rest period can not be provided at the end of the regular shift it will be provided during the period of overtime work at a time designated by the Company.
11.06
The regular work week for Stationary Engineers will consist of fortyAwo (42) hours to be averaged over a four (4) week perioc!:-Changes in work schedules will be posted as far in advance as practical.
11.07
A Stationary Engineer who is completing his shift will be required to remain on the job until the reporting employee is available and ready to take over the succeeding shift, or until other arrangements have been made by the Maintenance Manager. No employee will be allowed to work more than two (2) consecutive shifts.
11.08
Employees with seniority excluding Engineers, will be given preference of shift start times as outlined in the Collective Agreement. Where employees mutually agree to temporarily change shifts the change must be agreed to by the Company and the Union and the employee involved.
23
Notwithstanding the above, any Machine Operator/Packers that currently have preference of shift start-times (by seniority) will continue to enjoy this practice for the term of the Collective Agreement.
11.09
All seniority employees except Maintnenace Department personnel and Stationary Engineers, shall have the opportunity of selecting the shift they wish to work according to seniority and in accordance with Article 17.01 (a).
ARTICLE 12 - OVERTIME:
12.01
Overtime at the rate of time and one-half an employee’s regular hourly rate will be paid for all time worked in excess of eight (8) hours daily and forty (40) hours weekly, but not both, Monday through Saturday. Overtime rate for all ^unda^Jtours worked will be t\yice_tlie^ regular hourly rate. Overtime for work on a statutory holiday will be twice the regular hourly rate.
12.02
(a) Overtime opportunities in the department will be offered to the most senior bid employee on the job in the classification who is capable of immediately performing the job.
In the event that there is still not enough overtime coverage, the overtime opportunity will be offered to the senior employee in the department who is capable of immediately performing the job.
In the event that there is still not enough overtime coverage the remaining overtime opportunities will be offered to the senior employee outside the department
24
who is capable of immediately performing the job. Employees can register for any overtime but final assignment will be determined by the Company.
Probationary employees will qualify for overtime only after all employees with seniority have had the opportunity to work the overtime opportunity. The exception to this will be when a probationary employee has been assigned a bid and is therefore deemed to be bid on the job and is performing the function on a regular basis.
Notwithstanding the above, when overtime is required at the end of the shift, the overtime will be offered to the senior employee in the classification on the bid position in the department on the shift. If sufficient overtime coverage is not obtained then this overtime opportunity will be offered to the senior employee in the department on the shift capable of immediately performing the job.
Overtime distribution for Machine Operator/Packers scheduled for the monthly rotation will be offered by seniority on the bid position within the teams as defined in Article 15.09.
Overtime distribution for all other Machine Operator/Packers in the Wrapping Room department will be as follows:
(i)	it will be offered by seniority to employees within the classification and the line team, and in the event there is still not enough overtime coverage;
(ii)	it will be offered by seniority to employees in the department who are capable of immediately performing the job, and in the event there is still not enough overtime coverage;
25
(iii)it will be offered by seniority to employees outside the department who are capable of immediately performing the job.
(b)	The Company reserves the right to deviate from above if employee’s health or work is deemed to suffer as a result of excessive overtime.
(c)	An employee who is performing overtime work in a classification lower than his own, will be paid the overtime rate which is applicable to his own classification.
(d)	Working Leadhands that work over 20 hours weekly shall be entitled to overtime in their Bid Job Classification, and as Leadhand.
(e)	An employee who as a result of working emergency overtime as approved, and verified by his supervisor, does not work forty (40) regular hours in his scheduled work week will be paid the applicable overtime premium for all overtime hours worked on the weekend.
(f)	A Weekend Overtime sign up roster will be posted by 12:00 noon Tuesday of each week. Employees will be offered the opportunity to sign up for overtime between 12:00 noon Tuesday and 12:00 noon Wednesday of each week. By 12:00 noon Wednesday the overtime rosters will be taken down and employees will not be allowed to cancel their registration without a legitimate reason. Employees who register for overtime are expected to work their scheduled overtime shift and the provisions of Article 12.03 are applicable.
The finalized overtime roster will be posted by 12:00 noon Thursday of each week. Employees are
26
responsible for reviewing such overtime schedule and immediately identify issues of assignment/entitlement to the employees’ supervisor by 12:00 noon Friday.
On an exception basis the Company reserves the right to post additional overtime requirements based upon changing business needs. The Union will be notified in advance of such situations.
The Union is committed to making every effort possible to resolve such issues in a timely manner in order to avoid overtime opportunity errors.
12.03
If an employee commits to work a required overtime shift and fails to report for work without providing a legitimate reason to the Company or fails to provide a medical certificate which would excuse the absence, then the employee will have his name put on a mandatory overtime list.
The Company shall have the right to schedule employees to accommodate production needs from the mandatory overtime list. If an employee fails to report for a mandatory overtime scheduled shift he will be subject to progressive discipline. An employee’s name shall be removed from the mandatory overtime list after a 2 month period. The Company agrees that peo-the mandatory overtime list shall overtime requirements, as defined
pie excludedJrojji have flrgt refusal of in 12.02
a
12.04
Having exhausted the voluntary overtime list and the mandatory overtime list, if Hershey National Stock level on a product drops below five (5) weeks inventory the Company has the right to select the junior qualified employee in the Plant to perform the required
27
overtime. The inventory stock level documentation of the specific product will be reviewed with the Union President prior to implementing the mandatory overtime. Should other circumstances arise, the overtime requirement policy will apply upon mutual agreement between the Company and the Union.
12.05
Employees will not be scheduled for mandatory overtime as defined in Article 12.03 and 12.04 on the weekends immediately proceeding or immediately following a scheduled full week of vacation. In order to accomodate production needs, the Company will select the next senior qualified employee to perform the required overtime. Employees whose names are on the mandatory overtime list as defined in Article
12.03	and who are excused from mandatory overtime for scheduled vacation shall remain on the mandatory overtime list for an additional period equal to the time they were excused.
ARTICLE 13 - CALL IN PAY:
13.01
An employee who is called in to work to meet emergency conditions after having completed his shift and having left the Company property, will be guaranteed the equivalent of not less than four (4) hours pay at the employee’s applicable hourly rate of pay or one and one-half (1 1/2) times the employee’s hourly rate of pay for all hours worked, or twice the employee’s hourly pay for all hours worked on Sunday or a Statutory Holiday whichever is greater. In addition, the Company will pay one hour bonus pay at an employee’s regular hourly rate of pay for all call-ins.
28
An employee who has been called into work and subsequently called to cancel the call-in shall be guaranteed one hour’s pay for such call.
13.02
If the call-in occurs less than one (1) hour before the regular starting time, the call-in pay will be limited to the time remaining prior to the said regular time.
13.03
Any employee called at home by a Supervisor to solve a work related problem shall receive one hours pay at their regular rate.
ARTICLE 14 - REPORTING FOR WORK PAY:
14.01	q.£~6if
An employee who reports for work at the start of his shift, without having been notified in advance not to report, and no work is available for such an employee, will be paid four .(41 hours pay at his regular rate. This obligation on'flTB'parf'of the Company will not prevail where an employee does not keep the Company notified of his current address and the telephone number if any, or where the Company is prevented from providing work because of fire, flood, lack of hydro or steam power, strike, or any similar circumstances.
ARTICLE IS - MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS:
15.01
Where used in this Agreement, and where applicable, the male pronoun will be deemed to include the female pronoun.
29
15.02
By July 15th of each contract year employees will be provided with their uniforms consisting of a maximum of ten (10) pieces of clothing as per their request with the following conditions:
i)	Employees may choose one (1) jacket per year which is equal to three (3) pieces of clothing.
ii)	Coveralls or jumpsuits are equal to two (2) pieces of clothing.
iii)	Employees may choose up to two (2) sweatshirts.
iv)	All employees hired after the date of the first uniform issue shall receive an appropriate number of uniforms to accommodate them until the next issuance date.
The cleaning and maintenance of uniforms and any additions to the number supplied by the Company shall be the responsibility of employees. ‘Uniforms shall be kept clean and in good condition. All uniforms worn shall be of the design and colour required by the Company.
15.03
Effective February 1, 1994 the Company will pay each seniority employee a seventy-five dollar ($75.00) safety shoe allowance. All present seniority employees will receive a further eighty dollars ($80.00) safety shoe allowance effective February 1, 1995, and February 1, 1996. Any employee who completes his probationary period shall receive a seventy-five dollar ($75.00) safety shoe allowance and a further eighty dollar ($80,00) safety shoe allowance on the anniversary date of the completion of his probationary period.
30
Safety shoes shall only be worn in connection with work for the Company and shall be left at the plant.
15.04
The Company agrees to continue paying for all benefits during an emplo)^ela.pj'egna.ncy; leave.
,5i)5	£ x f r
An employee who is required by law' to serve as a jupor^or crowiyjwitness will be paid his full regular wages based on forty’(40) hours per week during the time as such service provided:
(a)	he turns over to the Company the amount received from the court;
(b)	he reports for work on any days he is not required to be in attendance in the courtroom.
15.06
The Company will make reasonable provisions for the safety of its employees during their hours of work. The Joint Health and Safety Committee will meet once per month unless the Union and the Company otherwise agree. The Union will actively participate with the Company in the promotion of safe working habits and practices.
15.07
Supervisors will not perform work normally performed by employees in the bargaining unit except:
(a)	in cases of emergency conditions;
(b)	when performing development or experimental work;
(c)	when checking production on machines or on any lines;
31
(d)	when instructing employees or other supervisory personnel;
(e)	when regular employees are not available due to being late or otherwise absent from their work or jobs.
15.08
Each tradesman or apprentice who is required by the Company to supply tools to be used in connection with his work will be given an allowance of:
(a)	$160.00 effective Year I
(b)	$175,00 effective Year II
(c)	$180.00 effective Year in
for the purchase and replacement of tools. Payment will be made June 30th of each year.
15.09
(a)	Effective February 1, 1994, the Wrapping and Glosettes Departments will be amalgamated together and referred to as the Wrapping Room Department.
Rotation in the Wrapping Room Department will be as follows:
1.	The Company has defined the Line^eamjs in the Wrapping Room as follows:
(a)	Jensen Line
(b)	P.B.C. Line
(c)	Cherry Blossom Line (note: Cherry Dropper will be included in Cherry Blossom rotation)
(d)	Rose Forgrove Line
(e)	Rovema Line
(f)	Haysen Line
(g)	Glosettes Packaging
(h)	Reeses Pieces
32
2.	Line Rotation will be as follows:
Monthly rotation - (a) Jensen - P.B.C.
- (b) Cherry Blossom - Rose Forgrove
Daily rotation - Glosettes Packaging, Reeses Pieces, Rovema, Haysen
3.	Company will identify the rotating positions within each team in a Letter of Understanding.
4.	On-line rotation will be scheduled as equitably as
possible every 1/2 hour within each team, and line productivity will not be adversely affected by this rotation. For purpose of this article, productivity will be defined as “hot seat changeover”.
5.	Current on-line rotation on the Oh Henry line will continue.
6.	Overtime for Production III Machine Operator/Packers in the Wrapping Room Department will be as per 12.02 (a).
(b)	Excluded from this provision will be Leadhands in the Wrapping Room Department.
(c)	Service Floor Attendants in the Wrapping Room (excluding the Oh Henry Line) who are performing the job will rotate daily on all Service Floor Attendant jobs as equitably as possible.
(d)	Employees in the Planters Packaging teams will rotate every half hour within their line team and daily between the line teams, designated as follows:
1.	Jar line and can line.
2.	Cello and oil line.
3.	Blending and Cpop.
33
ARTICLE 16 - BULLETIN BOARDS:
16.00
The Company agrees to provide the Union with its’ own bulletin board. The Union agrees to review all postings for the board with the Manager, Employee Relations or his designate for permission, before posting.
ARTICLE 17 - JOB POSTING:
(a)	Notices of job vacancies, which will include the shift to be worked, will be posted on the bulletin boards for five (5) days spanning a two (2) week period, exclusive of Saturdays, Sundays, and Paid Holidays, During that period, employees who have completed the probationary period may make written application to the Employee Relations Department. Vacancies will be filled by the most senior applicant who is capable and whose performance is satisfactory to the Company. If no one applies for the vacancy, the Company will fill such vacancy with the most junior non-bid employee who is capable and whose performance is satisfactory to the Company. No probationary employee will be assigned a posted position unless there are no capable non-bid employees on the seniority list. If there are no capable non-bid employees on the seniority list, probationary employees will be assigned a posted position and will be deemed to be bid on the job after the successful completion of their probationary period.
Employees will have the opportunity of changing shifts and/or jobs only through the posting procedure. If applicable, the Company will include capabilities and experience required on job postings.
34
(b)	Temporary jobs which are less than four (4) months duration will not be posted. A temporary job created as a result of a Pregnancy Leave of Absence and subsequent temporary jobs associated with the original temporary job will be excluded from this provision for the duration of the absence.
(c)	If a job posting is not filled by employees at work, the Company will recall employees on lay-off in order of seniority on a temporary basis until their former jobs become available again, provided the employee can perform the functions of the job within five (5) days of training. Then the Company will repost the position.
(d)	All notices of job vacancies posted shall state the job title, classification, department, shift and wage rate.
(e)	The Company shall post the name of the successful candidate for a period of five (5) days and a copy to be given to the successful candidate. Within a five (5) day period from the time of determining the successful applicant the Company shall post on the Bulletin Board the name of the successful applicant for a period of five (5) days.
(f)	The Union President shall be supplied with a list of all temporary jobs and the person working on said job monthly.
(g)	In the event that an employee is absent due to sick leave, L.T.D., or Workers Compensation their job will be posted after four (4) months. Absence due to U.I.C. Sick"BeriefIts (Maternity Leave), are excluded from this provision for "the duration of theabsence. The candidate that holds the original bid who is off work for sick leave (etc.) will be allowed to return to
his original job for up to two (2) years from the date he went off.
In the event that the temporary job holder is displaced by the original bid candidate returning to his job within the two (2) year period, he will be displaced as per Article 8.02 (e) of the Collective Agreement.
In the event that the original bid candidate does not return within the two (2) year period, or elects to terminate his services with the Company, the temporary job holder will be deemed to be a successful candidate for the job.
A temporary job posting as described above will clearly indicate on the posting that the position will be temporary for up to two (2) years.
(h)	An employee can only hold one bid job.
(i)	The Union President is to be copied on all correspondence pertaining to job postings.
(j)	For the purpose of this Article a Job Posting will result if there is:
(i)	A vacated bid job.
(ii)	A newjob.
(iii)	A job as defined in Article 17.01 (g).
(iv)	A job which is reactivated after being vacant
in	excess of one year.
17.02
Only the original vacancy and the first two (2) subsequent vacancies resulting from filling the original vacancy will be posted. However, where further vacancies occur in the classifications Production IV and higher, the vacancy will be posted for twenty-four (24) hours. The vacancy will be filled by the senior
36
capable employee who expresses interest providing the employees’ performance is satisfactory to the Company. Where further vacancies occur in the classifications Production III and below, consideration will be given to filling such vacancies with capable employees already in the employ of the Company in the bargaining unit.
17.03
An employee who receives a job through the posting procedure shall receive the rate for the new job in fourteen (14) working days from the date the posting was made or the date on which he is placed on the job, whichever occurs first. The successful applicant will be notified within five (5) days after the posting period is completed.
The successful candidate shall be moved to his new job within twenty-eight (28) days of a successful bid unless mutually agreed to by the Company, the Union and the employee involved.
17.04
Employees will be restricted to receiving two (2) jobs through the posting procedure in a twelve month period.
17.05
An employee who is going to be absent from work and who thinks there may be a vacancy in a job where he desires to work may leave his name with the Employee Relations Department. If there is a vacancy in the work specified, he will be given full consideration along with the other bids received. The employee must report for the job within two (2) weeks of successful bidding or be disqualified.
37
17.06
A job which has been discontinued for less than twelve (12) months and becomes reactivated, will be filled by the previous bid holder unless they have applied for and been awarded another bid job thru the job posting procedure.
period will be allowed up to three (3) working days’ leave of absence with pay in the event of the death of his father, mother, sister, brother, wife (husband), child, grandchild, mother-in-law, father-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, stepfather, stepmother, stepchild and grandparents. Such leave shall be for the purpose of making arrangements for and attending the funeral, and shall terminate on the day following the day of the funeral. Only that portion of the three (3) days that would otherwise have been regular time worked will be paid at regular hourly rates of pay.
(a)	Where a death of a brother-in-law or sister-in-law of an employee occurs, one (1) working day off with pay will be allowed on the day of the funeral, to attend the funeral.
(b)	Employees who are unable to make arrangements for and attend the funeral because of excessive travel requirements will be granted one (1) day leave with pay.
(c)	If a death occurs to a member of an employee’s family outlined in Articles 18.01 and 18.02 while the employee is on vacation, the balance of their remaining
ARTICLE 18 - FUNERAL LEAVE:
18.01
An employee who has completed tl
18.02
38
vacation may be rescheduled at a time mutually agreeable to the Company and the employee. The employee will be eligible for a Funeral Leave of Absence with pay as per Articles 18.01 and 18,02.
ARTICLE 19 ■ DEDUCTION OF UNION DUES:
19.01	3_	J' 1 f/ 7
On receipt of authorization forms individually and voluntarily signed by employees, the Company will deduct Union dues in the amount as designated by the Union from the pay accumulated to the credit of such employees for the first pay period of each calendar month.
Amounts so deducted will be forwarded to a designated official of the Union within fifteen (15) days after the deductions have been made.
19.02
Authorization for the deduction of Union Dues will be made on copies of the following form:
I...........................hereby authorize Hershey
Canada Inc. to deduct my monthly dues to Retail, Wholesale / Canada, Canadian Service Sector Division of the United Steelworkers of America, Local 461 AFL-CIO and forward the dues so deducted to the Secretary-Treasurer of the Retail, Wholesale / Canada, Canadian Service Sector Division of the United Steelworkers of America, Local 461 AFL-CIO, whose receipt therefore shall be considered a discharge to the Company for the amounts so deducted. Such an authorization shall be irrevocable.
Signed............................
Address...........................
39
19.03
New employees hired by the Company shall be requh^lojutliorize Jfie-dednglion of Union Dues from their pay. The deduction of such dues shall commence after the employee has been employed for sixty (60) worked days. When a new employee is hired, he will be advised there is a Collective Agreement in effect and, within two (2) days after he commences work, such new employee will be introduced to the department steward.
19.04
The Union will save the Company harmless from any and all claims which may be made against the Company by employees for amounts deducted from pay as herein provided.
ARTICLE 20 ■ LEAVE OF ABSENCE:
2o.oi	[?->ih:)
Leave of absence without pay and without loss of seniority may be granted by the Company to employees for pet^onal reasons. An employee requesting leave shall make such a request in writing at least two (2) weeks in advance of the date when the leave is required. Under normal circumstances, personal leave, when granted by the Company, shall not extend beyond thirty (30) days.
Leave of absence without pay and without loss of seniority will be granted by the Company to not more than twelve (12) employees at a time to attend Union Functions, provided the request for such a leave is mSde’at least two (2) weeks in advance of the effective
40
date of said leave. The total accumulation of leave of absence for Union Functions shall not exceed thirty (30) working days in any twelve (12) month period. Subject to operational requirements the Company will consider special requests for particular leaves of absences on an individual basis.
20.03
Leave of absence without loss of seniority will be granted by the Company for the adoption.of a child up to a period of six (6) months without any form of compensation
ARTICLE 21 - WAGES:
21.01	a A ~	^
h C' /V
The Company will classify employees and pay applicable wage rates in accordance with the following:
41
4^
	Effective February 1,1994 Less than 2 Years 2 Years & Over		Effective February I, 1995 Less than 2 Years 2 Years & over		Effective February 1,1996 Less than 2 Years 2 Years &Over	
OPERATOR II	13.99	14.28	14.29	14.58	14.69	14.98
Press Room Operator Oh Henry Kitchen Cook						
OPERATOR I Moulding Operator Polishing Operator Coating Operator Relief Operator/Cocoa Bagger Operator	13.68	13.97	13.98	14.27	14.38	14.67
Chocolate Processing Operator
Eatmore Cooker
Lowney Processing Operator
Nut Packing Operator
Brown Cow/Syrup/Instant/Cocoa Operator
Nut Processing Operator
4^
PRODUCTION IV
Chocolate Processing Helper Jensen Line Attendant PBC Line Attendant Rose Forgrove Line Attendant Oh Hemy Line Attendant Tisma Line Attendant Material Handler Syrup Maker/Cocoa Relief/Cocoa Blender Pulverizer Peanut Butter Maker Bean Building Helper
Effective		Effective		Effective	
February 1,1994		February 1,1995		February 1,1996	
Less than 2 Years		Less than 2 Years		Less than	2 Years
2 Years	&Over	2 Years	& Over	2 Years	& Over
13.27	13.56	13.57	13.86	13.97	14.26
t
PRODUCTION III
Effective		Effective		Effective	
February 1,1994		February 1,1995		February 1,1996	
Less than	2 Years	Less than 2 Years		Less than	2 Years
2 Years	& Over	2 Years	& Over	2 Years	&Over
13.11	13.40	13.41	13.70	13.81	14.10
Operator Packer
Aasted Attendant
Nut Packaging Line Attendant
Pan Goods Helper
Peanut Sugaring
Relief Operator Packer
Grounds Keeper
Line Cleaner
Process Mix & Refine Operator
Brown Cow/Syrup/Instant/Cocoa Attendant
Carousel Palletizer
Moulding Helper Cherry Blossom
Moulding Helper Oh Henry
Oh Henry Brusher
Cream Maker Cherry Blossom
	Effective February 1,1994 Less than 2 Years 2 Years & Over		Effective Februaryl,1995 Less than 2 Years 2 Years & Over		Effective February 1,1996 Less than 2 Years 2 Years & Over	
PRODUCTION II Service Attendant Relief Service Attendant Eatmore Cutter Oh Henry Line Attendant Tray Washer Raisin Washer/Sugaring Line Attendant Pan Goods Washup	12.93	13.22	13.23	13.52	13.63	13.92
PRODUCTION I Sanitation Janitorial General Labour Nut Inspector Candy Counter/Rework Peanut Butter Decupper	12.77 ffiimJi.G'Slto	13.06	13.07 ®3IClEl3i&	13.36	13.47	13.76 fcf 4e-k
						
HIRING CLASS	12.47		12.77		13.17	
Machine Cleaner Specialist	13.98	14.27	14.28	14.57	14.68	14.97
	„ Effective		Effective		Effective	
	February 1,1994		February	1,1995	February 1,1996	
	Less than	2 Years	Less than	2 Years	Less than 2 Years	
	2 Years	& Over	2 Years	& Over	2 Years	& Over
MAINTENANCE						
Tradesman A	16.57	16.86	16.87	17.16	17.27	17.56
Tradesman B	15.77	16.06	16.07	16.36	16.47	16.76
Tradesman C 0 Y " -	* 15.51	15.80	15.81	16.10	16.21	16.50
Helper/Apprentice 			14.08	14.37	14.38	14.67	14.78	15.07
Chief Engineer	-	19.99	-	20.29	-	20.69
Engineers 2nd Class	18.70	18.99	19.00	19.29	19.40	19.69
Engineers 3rd Class	18.28	18.83	18.58	19.13	18.98	19.53
Instrumentation Control	18.28	18.83	18.58	19.13	18.98	19.53
Specialists						
No Ticket	17.58	18.13	17.88	18.43	18.28	18.83
1 Ticket	18.28	18.83	18.58	19.13	18.98	19.53
2 Ticket	18.48	19.03	18.78	19.33	19.18	19.73
General Increase:	Year I	.30	Year 2	.30	Year 3	.40
Trades Adjustment		.10		.00		.00
(includes A, B, C mechanics, Stationary Engineers and ticketed/specialist and specialist no ticket.)
Moulding Operator Adjustment 0-2 Years	$	.00
2-5 Years	$	.15
over 5 Years	$	.10
21.02
Employees hired at the hiring rate will attain the rate of the classification to which they are assigned on completion of twenty (20) days of work.
21.03
(a)	A leadhand appointed by the Company will receive a rate of forty cents (40 cents) in excess of the highest classification rate in the group of employees he is required to lead.
(b)	Leadhands will have no authority to hire or discharge or discipline, and shall not be used in the assessment of an employee’s performance for the purpose of discipline, promotion or an employee attaining seniority.
(c)	Leadhands will be selected from those employees with seniority and will not be selected from the ranks of temporary or probationary employees.
(d)	Leadhands will be paid the leadhand premium for all hours worked as a leadhand as per Article 21.05 (b).
2l-04^«-/otfd^	&>}'\0 0C)f?'O
An afternoon shift premium of forty-five cents (.45 cents) per hour will be paid for all hours worked on shifts which commence from 1:00 p.m. to 9:00 p.m. A midnight shiftjtremium of fifty cents (.50 cents) per hour will be paid'for'atl'shrfts'which commence from 9:00 p.m. to 5:00 a.m.
21.05
(a) An employee who is temporarily transferred from a higher to a lower rated job for the convenience of the Company, and not as a result of the lack of work on
47
his regular job, will be paid the higher rate for the duration of such temporary transfer.
(b) An employee who is temporarily transferred from a lower to a higher rated classification will receive the higher rate for all hours worked upon working four (4) hours or more continuously on the higher rated classification.
ARTICLE 22 - HEALTH AND WELFARE:
22.01
The employee shall have Health and Welfare benefits as outlined in the “Employg&-Hai>_dbook” dated 1994.
22.02
Insurance benefits contained herein are within the control of third parties (i.e. the carriers of the said plans). Therefore, the Company shall not be responsible for any decisions made by the said third parties with respect to the payment or non-payment of benefits.
22.03
P 3
(x-
0
7 7.
Severance Pay - In the event of the dasucg^of all of the Company’s operation in Smiths rails or the closure of a portion leading up to the total closure, resulting in a permanent lay-off, the Company agrees to pay all terminated employees a severance pay for those employees with more than five (5) years seniority, amounting to one (1) week’s regular wages for each year of service and one-half (1/2) week’s regular wages for each year of service for those employees with less than five (5) years seniority.
48
ARTICLE 23 ■ DURATION:
This agreement, which supersedes all previous Agreements, will remain in full force and effective from and including the 1st a'av of February, .1.994,to and including the SlsfeEylrfJJanuary^ 1997, Notice by either party fftatTfTntenHs to terminate or seek revisions to this Agreement may only be given during a period of not more than ninety (90) days and not less than thirty (30) days preceding the 31st of January,
Signed at Smiths Falls this 27th day of January, 1994.
1997
For the Company Daniel T. Darcy Rene Albert Peter Cahill

Patrick Kilgore Peter Mallen Jim Moss
For the Union James Donnelly Jack Davis
John Fawcett
Barb Levac
Wm. Glenn Rath well
Brent Whiten
49
LETTER OF INTENT
This letter will confirm the Company’s intent to use Hershey employees on lay-off as contractor helpers, when possible, in order to provide as much work to employees on lay-off as possible.
Whenever this agreement is made, it must be a feasible type of work assignment and must be agreed by the contractor at the time the work is being performed.
Dan Darcy Plant Manager
50
LETTER OF INTENT
This letter will confirm the Company’s intent to continue to have Monday through Friday as the normal work week. However, the Company will experience times when it is necessary to schedule Saturday, Sunday or both as regular work days to accommodate what would be considered unusual circumstances.
If, in the future the Company finds it necessary to schedule Saturday, Sunday or both as regular work days, other than for temporary periods of time they will meet with the Union to discuss and mutually agree upon a system and procedure for the selection of work days on the basis of seniority.
The Company will not unilaterally introduce a Continental Work Week without discussion and mutual agreement with the Union.
Dan Darcy Plant Manager
51
LETTER OF INTENT - RE: LAY-OFF
This letter will serve as a confirmation of the Company’s intent to maximizethe lead time for all lay-offs which exceed five working days, except where it is beyond the reasonable control of the Company. To aid in this commitment, it is the Company’s intent to review manning requirements at each Labour-Management Meeting held monthly.
Dan Darcy Plant Manager
52
LETTER OF INTENT
Maintenance Department Shift Selection
The Company agrees to continue the current practice of shift rotation within the maintenance department in a fair and equitable manner. However, in the case of an emergency (equipment breakdown, installation, vacation, sickness) the Company reserves the right to be able to assign the required skill to the necessary shift.
Dan Darcy Plant Manager
53
LETTER OF INTENT
Alternate Work Schedules
Notwithstanding Article 11.02 in cases where the Company initiates and the Union agrees to implement alternate work schedules, the following schedule of benefits will apply for ten (10) and/or twelve (12) hour shifts.

F-I)-
/
Alternate Work Week Addendum for 111/2 Hour and 10 Hour Shift Statutory Holidays The 8 hour entitlement will remain regardless of shift arrangement in that the total annualized work hours are the same.
Vacations
Selection of weeks off will remain same as current entitlement.
Vacation time is based on 40 hours/week for 1 week. Hours of Work
Saturday premium ($1.25/hour) and Sunday premium ($2.00/hour) will be preserved for hours regularly scheduled.
Overtime
Any hours over the regular scheduled work day will receive overtime premium.
Any hours worked over 80 in a two week period for the 111/2 hour shift will be paid in the second week at current O.T. rates.
Any day worked as a scheduled day off will receive O.T. at 1 1/2 times the regular rate of pay, provided the regular scheduled work week for the employee is complete. Sunday O.T. rate will be preserved.
54
All hours worked on the employee’s statutory holiday will receive twice the regular hourly rate.
Funeral Leave
We would recognize the 3 days off period allowing full credit of hours based on the applicable schedule.
r - v '■> V °
Sick Benefits	7 7 7'- ' ‘
Entitlement will remain as per theycurrent contract. No employee wililosejriore than'x2^oursjluiuigi his first^Jays of illness.	”
Shift Premium
A shift premium of one dollar ($1.00) per hour will be paid for each hour worked on the 11 1/2 hour shift alternate. This will replace the current differential.
All other contract requirements for entitlement will remain in effect.
Dan Darcy
Plant Manager
55
November 27, 1989
Addendum to the Alternate Work Schedule
All hours worked on Saturday and Sunday will be paid the applicable overtime rates provided the employee has fulfilled his regular hours commitments on the preceding Monday, Tuesday and Friday.
The Saturday premium ($1.25/hour) and Sunday premium ($2.00/hour) will not be preserved for hours regularly scheduled.
The Union and the Company agree that scheduled hours worked on Saturday and Sunday are not overtime hours, and as a result of the provisions of Article 12 do not apply.
56
ADDENDUM - To The Current Collective Agreement
RE: Letter of Intent Alternate Work Schedules !>
The Company and the Union agree to increase the Shift Premium ($0.70) to $1.00 per hour for each hour worked on the 111/2 hour shift alternate work week.
Both parties agree that the conditions of this Letter of Intent shall remain in effect until January 31,1997.
Both parties agree that if for any reason the Alternate Work Week Schedule ceases, the Company will have the right to resume this Alternate Work Schedule, and the conditions outlined above in the Letter of Intent will not be altered.
For the Company
For the Union
March 15,1989 Smiths Falls
57