COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
between:
HERSHEY CANADA INC., Smiths Falls, Ontario (hereinafter referred to as “the Company")
Hershey Canada Inc.
X A Hershey Foods Company/
Une Compagnle de Hershey Foods
> -	and
RETAIL, WHOLESALE CANADA/CAW LOCAL 462
(hereinafter referred to as “the Union”)
Effective Date: February I, 2000 : Expiry Date: January 31, 2004
INDEX
ARTICLE
PAGE
Recognition....................
Management Rights..............
Responsibility................
No Strikes or Lockouts........
Union Representation / Discipline.
9.
10
12.
13.
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.	Grievance Procedure.
7.	Discharge Cases ......................
8.	Arbitration...........................
Seniority.............................
Lay-Off/Plant Staffing................
Alternate Work Schedule
Four(4) Ten(10) Hour Shifts..........
Lay-Off of One (I) Full Shift or Less Recall/Plant Staffing................
14.	Temporary Transfers...................
15.	Redundancy............................
16.	Line Team(s)/Natural Work Team(s) .
17.	Holidays .............................
18.	Vacation .............................
19.	Hours of Work.........................
20.	Overtime..............................
21.	Call in Pay/Reporting For W ork Pay.
22.	Training..............................
23.	Miscellaneous Provisions..............
24.	Uniforms/Safety Shoes................
25.	Job Posting...........................
26.	Bereavement Leave.....................
27.	Deduction of Union Dues...............
28.	Leave of Absence.....................
Q&. Wages/Shiff Premium....:..............
30.	' HealthandWelfare’..:................
31.	Duration .............e.U.............
..1
. 1
3
. . 3
4
.6
.....9
10
1.1
.13
.19
..22
22
,28
29
.33
34
.3.7
41
.44
49
51
53
54 56 60 .61 62 63
...72
...72
LETTERS OF INTENT
PAGE
Letter of Intent	#1	Payment For Travel Time ............74
Letter of Intent	#2	Lay-Off ............................76
Letter of Intent	#3	Hours Of Work ......................77
Letter of Intent	#4	Lead Time For Lay-Offs..............78
Letter of Intent #5 Maintenance Department
Shift Selection...................................79
Letter of Intent #6 Alternate Work Schedule Eleven &
One-Half (111/2) Hour Chocolate Processing.......8 0
Letter of Intent #7 Alternate Work Schedule
Stationary	Engineers.............................85
Letter of Intent	#8	Special Pack Operation..............87
Letter of Intent	#9	Casual Work Pool .................. 91
Letter of Intent	#10	Wage Adjustments...................94
Letter of Intent #11 Expedited Arbitration Process.....9 5
Letter of Intent	#12	Other Alternate Work Schedules...98
Letter of Intent	#13	Maintenance Apprentices ...........99
Letter of Intent	#14	Maintenance Rates Of Pay ........100
Letter of Intent	#15	Continental Work Week.............101
Letter of Intent #16 Transition Language
Articles 10 And 13 ..............................102
Letter of Intent #17 Recall For One Day Vacation/
Absenteeism/Floater Relief.......................104
Letter of Intent #18 Pen sion..........................106
Letter of Intent #19 Leadhands.........................107
Letter of Intent #20 Mandatory Overtime................108
Letter of Intent #21 Sanitation Overtime.............. Ill
Letter of Intent #22 Amendments To The Collective
Agreement Re: Department & Classification........112
ARTICLE 1 RECOGNITION
1.01
The Company recognizes the Union as the exclusive bargaining agent of all employees of the Company at Smiths Falls, Ontario save and except supervisors, persons above the rank of supervisor, office and sales staff, laboratory staff, students employed during school vacation period, and persons regularly employed for not more than twenty-four (24) hours per week.
1.02
Part-time employees will not be used when any full-time employees, subject to recall, are on lay-off except when laid-off employees are not available to do bargaining unit work.
1.03
Students will not be used to perform bargaining unit work, when any full-time employees, subject to recall are on layoff except when laid off employees are not available.
ARTICLE 2 MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
2.01
Except where specifically abridged by the terms of this Agreement, the management of the Company’s operations and the selection and direction of employees will continue to be vested exclusively with the Company.
2.02	Discipline and Discharge
The Company has the right to discipline or discharge
employees subject to the right of an employee, who has completed their probationary period, to file a grievance alleging such discipline or discharge was without just cause.
2.03	Productivity Clause
The Union and the Company recognize that productivity improvement is essential to the well-being of the employees and the Company. Accordingly, the Union and the Employer will co-operate in efforts to maintain and improve productivity at all levels throughout the Plant. This language shall be interpreted so that it does not conflict with the other articles of agreement.
To achieve this, the management of the Smiths Falls Plant and officers of Retail, Wholesale Canada/CAW, Local 462, are committed to providing employees a workplace environment that promotes teamwork and the development of multi-disciplined work teams, co-operation, creativity, and the meaningful involvement of employees and their abilities. Creating the highest quality products by continuously improving all that we do is the primary workplace goal. It is intended that this mutual commitment to “Quality Through Excellence” will result in optimum customer satisfaction and, therefore, promote long-term security for Smiths Falls Plant operations and its employees.
The Company and the Union agree to the establishment of joint multi-functional Continuous Improvement teams consisting of members of Management and Union members with the goal of developing a significant competitive advantage.
2
ARTICLE 3 RESPONSIBILITY
3.01
The Company and the Union recognize that it is in the best interest of both parties that all dealings between them be
responsibility and respect means an honest regard for equality in the official relationship between the Company and Union representatives. Company representatives, especially the first-level of supervision, have the day to day responsibility to deal reasonably and in good faith with Union representatives. Company representatives have the right to expect in return, responsibility and respect from Union representatives. To insure continually improving relations between the Company and Union, it is in the interest of both parties to deal with one another at all levels in a sincere, honest, and businesslike manner.
Any and all prior agreements, understanding practices, etc. between the Company and the Union and/or individual employees, unless specifically incorporated herein, are hereby declared null and void.
ARTICLE 4 NO STRIKES OR LOCKOUTS
4.01
The Company will not lock out employees, nor will there be any strikes on the part of the Union or the employees.
4.02
The terms “strike” and “lockout” as used above shall be
;. Mutual
3.02
defined in accordance with the definitions set out in the Ontario Labour Relations Act.
ARTICLE 5 UNION REPRESENTATION/ DISCIPLINE
5.01
a)	The Union shall have the right to appoint or otherwise select a committee of four (4) employees plus the Plant President of the Union (Chairperson) to participate in the negotiation or administration of this or subsequent agreements.
b)	Should any Union Committee member, as described in Article 5.01(a), be on an ‘off shift’ (A, C or D) and there is a requirement to attend a meeting on day shift, said Union Committee member(s) will be paid for their attendance at the applicable rate, providing such attendance is mutually agreed to between the Company and Union.
5.02
In the absence of the Plant President of the Union (Chairperson), a designate shall be appointed to act on the President’s behalf.
5.03
The Union will appoint or otherwise select a chief steward by shift from the existing stewards on such shift who will act as back-up in the absence of the regular area steward.
The steward must be present to provide union representation
in the event an employee is disciplined unless the employee chooses to waive representation,
In extraordinary circumstances, the employee may choose to use the Plant President of the Union (Chairperson) instead of the steward.
5.04
An employee will not be eligible to act as a steward or member of the Union Committee until after they have completed the probationary period of employment.
5.05
Copies of all discipline letters shall be provided to the Plant President of the Union (Chairperson). It is understood that the Union will not move to nullify any disciplinary action if said documentation is not delivered in a timely fashion.
5.06
Employees of the Company who are members of the Union Committee, or stewards, have regular duties to perform. Such employees will not leave their work for conducting any business on behalf of the Union or employees, without receiving permission from their immediate supervisor. Such permission will not be unreasonably withheld.
5.07
An employee serving on the Union Committee as defined in Article 5.01(a) shall neither gain or lose regular pay, for negotiating the renewal of the Collective Agreement.
5.08
In the event an employee receives disciplinary action, in writing, such written action shall be removed from the employee’s record after a fifteen (15) calendar month period from the date of such reprimand, provided no other reprimand or disciplinary action is taken against said employee during such fifteen (15) month period. In the event an employee is on a leave of absence or lay-off for a period of thirty (30) or more consecutive calendar days, such fifteen (15) calendar month period shall be extended by the number of calendar days such employee is on leave or lay-off.
ARTICLE 6 GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
6.01
The Company and the Union endorse the principle of an orderly grievance procedure and the prompt handling of grievances and to that end will work within the procedure, Any difference between the Company and any seniority employee or the Union shall be taken up in the manner hereinafter set forth:
6.02
Union representatives will make every effort to identify the alleged article violated and describe the dates, times, places, and people involved in the incident or occurrence being grieved, when practicable. If this information is not identified the grievance will be returned to the steward for clarification. If this still does not result in obtaining the information specified above the grievance will be forwarded to the Plant President of the Union (Chairperson) for completion, Time limits associated with this article will not commence
until the grievance has been resubmitted with the appropriate information.
6.03
The Company may refuse to consider any complaint, the alleged circumstances of which arose more than eight (8) working days before it was referred to the supervisor.
An exception to the above will be a complaint with respect to the employee’s amount of wages in which event this period shall be extended to twenty-one (21) calendar days.
6.04
Should any difference arise between the Company and any seniority employee or the Union, there shall be no stoppage of work on account of such differences, but an earnest effort should be made to settle such difference in the following manner:
6.05
Any complaint raised by an employee with their supervisor which is not settled within one (1) full working day will, within a further period of two (2) working days, be referred to their supervisor as a written grievance, which will be dated and signed by the employee. During any discussion of a complaint with the supervisor, the employee’s steward will be present if requested by either the employee or the supervisor.
6.06	Step #1
Within eight (8) working days following receipt of a written grievance the supervisor and/or such other persons as may
be designated by the Company will meet with the employee and the steward to discuss the grievance. Within three (3) working days thereafter, the supervisor or their designate will give a written reply to the grievance which shall be copied to the filing union steward.
6.07	Step #2
If the reply of the supervisor is not satisfactory to the employee concerned, the grievance may within three (3) working days following the date of the reply at Step #1 be referred to the Manager, Employee Relations. Once per month, at a predetermined date arranged between the parties, the Manager, Employee Relations and/or such other persons as may be designated by the Company, will meet with the Union Committee to discuss the grievance. A full-time representative of the Union (ie. Business Agent, etc.) will be present if their presence is requested by either the employee, the Union Committee or the Manager, Employee Relations. Within five (5) working days following this meeting the Manager, Employee Relations will give their written reply to the grievance.
6.08
As used in this Article only, the term “working days” shall mean Monday to Friday inclusive.
6.09
Any of the time allowance provided above may be extended by mutual consent of the parties involved, such extension of time to be in writing.
6.10
If a grievance is to be referred to arbitration, it shall be done
8
within fifteen (15) working days following the date of the reply at Step #2.
6.11
Failure to comply with time limits at Step #1 unless extended by mutual consent will automatically result in a grievance proceeding to Step #2.
ARTICLE 7 DISCHARGE CASES
7.01
An employee who has completed the probationary period and who is subsequently discharged by the Company, may submit a written grievance, dated and signed, to the Manager, Employee Relations, provided such grievance is submitted within three (3) working days after the discharge occurs.
7.02
Grievances relating to discharge may be settled by confirming the Company’s action, or by reinstating the discharged person with full compensation or by any other arrangement which is just and equitable.
7.03
The Plant President of the Union (Chairperson) shall be present when an employee is to be discharged. In the absence of the Plant President of the Union (Chairperson) a designate shall be appointed to act on the President’s behalf. Copies of all discharge letters shall be provided to the Plant President of the Union (Chairperson). It is understood that the Union will not move to nullify any discharge action if
9
said documentation is not delivered in a timely fashion, ARTICLE 8 ARBITRATION
8.01
No grievance may be submitted to arbitration which has not been properly processed through the stages of the grievance procedure, as herein provided.
8.02
When either party requests that a grievance be submitted to arbitration, the party making the request shall do so in writing, addressed to the other party, recommending a sole arbitrator to be used. If within twenty-one (21) calendar days the parties have not agreed to an arbitrator, the party submitting the grievance to arbitration will request that the Minister of Labour of the Province of Ontario appoint an arbitrator.
8.03
Each of the parties will jointly bear the expense of the arbitrator.
8.04
The arbitrator shall not render any decision which is inconsistent with the terms of this Agreement, nor shall the arbitrator add to, alter, amend or deal with any matter not contained herein.
8.05
The arbitrator’s decision will be final and binding on the parties to this agreement and the employee(s) involved.
10
8.06
By mutual agreement the parties can choose alternate forms of dispute resolution in lieu of the arbitration process. The cost of such alternate dispute resolution will be shared equally by the parties. The decision arising from such alternative dispute resolution will be final and binding on the parties to this agreement and the employee(s) involved.
ARTICLE 9 SENIORITY
9.01
Any employee hired as a new employee by the Company will be on probation and will not have any seniority standing until after they have completed sixty (60) days of work. Their seniority will then date back sixty (60) working days from the sixtieth (60) day worked. A probationary employee will have twelve (12) months from the date of hire to accumulate their sixty (60) days of work. Notwithstanding any other provision contained in the Collective Agreement, the discharge of an employee during their probationary period shall be at the sole discretion of the Company.
9.02
Unless a tradesperson or apprentice no probationary employee will perform bargaining unit work if there is a bargaining unit member on lay-off.
9.03
In the event of an extensive lay-off due to lack of work, the Plant President of the Union (Chairperson) will be retained in employment provided the said President has more than three (3) years of seniority and further, provided there is
11
work available they are qualified to perform.
9.04
Seniority previously accumulated will be lost and employment terminated whenever an employee:
a)	quits their employment or is discharged for just cause;
b)	is absent from work in excess of two (2) working days without an explanation satisfactory to the Company;
c)	fails to return to work when recalled from a lay-off;
d)	is laid off for a continuous period of twelve (12) months.
9.05
a)	An up-to-date seniority list, showing the names, senior-
ity dates, bid shifts, bid jobs will be posted on the bulletin board every three (3) months. A copy will be given to the Plant President of the Union (Chairperson) upon request.
b)	Within one month of ratification of the Collective
Agreement, the Company shall supply the Plant President of the Union (Chairperson) with a list of all employees’ (including temporary employees) names, addresses and listed phone numbers. The Company will update this list as required and forward any changes to the Plant President of the Union (Chairperson).
9.06
Where the Company terminates the work day for a portion of the work force of employees before eight (8) hours have
12
been worked, thosecmployecs who havethe greatest seniority within the affected bid job(s) will be allowed to leave the plant, provided there are sufficient qualified employees remaining to perform the work.
ARTICLE 10 LAY-OFF/PLANT STAFFING
10.01
All employees will be required to complete and maintain an
“Employee Profile List”, which will include:
•	current bid job and shift
•	alternate job preference (ten (10) positions in order of preference)
•	qualifications
•	job(s) cannot do
•	alternate hours of work i.c. 10,111/2 hour shifts
•	alternate shift preference
> voluntary leave of absence (when assigned to "D" shift)
Employees will be staffed subject lo the conditions of Articles IO & 13, using the employee’s respective Employee Profile List. A copy of the Employee Profile Lists will be provided to the Plant President of the Union (Chairperson) or theirdesignatc.
10.02
Each year employees will be permitted to update theii Employee Profile List during the first full week of April and first full week of October with reference to alternatejob preference, alternate hours of work, alternate shift preference and bid jobs employees cannot do. Employee qualifications, medical documentation and modified work infor-
13
ination will be reviewed on an ongoing basis and the Employee Profile will be updated accordingly.
10.03
When an employee’s bid job is operating, they will be staffed into their bid job according to seniority based upon the following conditions:
a)	When staffing employees as defined in Articles 10 & 13 the criteria used for the assignment to a section one (1) bid job as outlined in Article 29 will be both seniority and being fully and immediately qualified to perform the available work. Once both these criteria are met then the employee’s alternate job preference list as per their employee profile will be used. When staffing employees as defined in Articles 10 & 13 into section two (2) bid jobs as outlined in Article 29 employees will be afforded up to one (1) full work week of training unless they cannot perform the bid job as per their employee profile list. Having been afforded one (1) full work week of training and it is determined that they cannot perform the full scope of the bid job they will be disqualified and reassigned as per the staffing process.
b)	Employees who volunteer for a section one (I), four (4) ten hour position, according to their respective Employee Profile List, will be assigned into an available four (4) ten hour position subject to bid shift seniority and being fully and immediately qualified to perform the work available and a fully and immediately qualified employee being available to replace them.
14
Employees who volunteer for a section two (2), four (4) ten hour position, according to their respective Employee Profile List will be afforded up to one (1) full work week of training.
c)	Should an employee’s bid job not be in operation, notwithstanding Articles 12 and 15, and/or they do not have seniority to retain their bid job, the following bumping and lay-off conditions will apply:
i)	Every effort will be made to staff employees into
an available position on their bid shift.
ii)	If they cannot be assigned to their bid shift, every effort will be made to staff them to their alternate shift preference.
iii)	If they cannot be assigned to their alternate shift preference every effort will be made to staff them on another shift.
iv)	If they still cannot be assigned they will be laid off from the plant.
v)	Employees who cannot physically do all aspects of
the newly assigned position will be laid off and will be reviewed weekly to determine their availability for future assignments in accordance with their Employee Profile List.
15
10.04
Notwithstanding Articles 10.03 and 14, the parties agree to continue the practice whereby employees are required to leave their bid job to provide relief for absences such as, vacations, floaters, leave of absence, short term disability and workers’ compensation coverage for refresher training and the Company will make every effort to limit the assignment of an employee to a maximum of two (2) weeks per job per calendar year.
10.05
For the purpose of shift identification only, day shift will be referred to as "B" shift; afternoon shift will be referred to as "C" shift; midnight (production), Monday through Friday will be referred to as “A” shift and midnight (sanitation and pan goods wash up and machine cleaner specialist), Tuesday through Saturday will be referred to as "D" shift. For purposes of clarity "D" shift commences Monday evening and “A” shift commences Sunday evening.
10.06
Employees bumped to "D" shift as per Article 10 and/or Article 13 will be placed on a voluntary leave of absence in accordance with their Employee Profile List, until such time as work is available on “A”, "B" or "C" shift. Should an employee exercise a voluntary leave of absence and then decide that they are prepared to work on "D" shift, they must provide a representative of the Employee Relations Department with one (1) full week written notice and they will be added back into the staffing process. Such written notice must be provided by 4:00 p.m. the Friday prior to the staffing of the week in question.
16
Employees who elect a voluntary leave of absence as defined above will continue benefits for the balance of the month in which they went on leave of absence, plus two (2) full months thereafter as per Article 30.01.
If an employee returns from a leave of absence to "D" shift, they must complete their assignment until such time as they are cither laid-off, return to their regular bid shift, or assigned to “A”, "B" or "C" shift.
Should a situation arise where the company cannot adequately staff section one (I) "D" shift jobs with fully and immediately qualified employees to perform the available work, then the junior employee who is fully and immediately qualified to perform the available work and who elected a voluntary leave of absence will be required to report to the assigned shift.
Should a situation arise where the company cannot adequately staff section two (2) "D" shift jobs, the junior employee who elected a voluntary leave of absence will be required to report to perform the available work. Employees who bump into bid jobs identified in section two (2) of the bid job list in Article 29 will be afforded up to one (1) full work week of training. Employees who cannot perform the full scope of the bid job after such training will be disqualified and reassigned as per the staffing process.
10.07
The provisions of Article 19.03 are not applicable when employees are temporarily transferred between “A” and/or "D" shift on Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday of any week.
17
10.08
Once the staffing process commences each week (normally 9:00 a.m. Monday morning), for the following week, relevant data such as the Employee Profile List, production and staffing requirements and availability of employees, will be frozen at that time for the balance of the week.
Notwithstanding a work week containing a holiday as defined in Article 17 of the Collective Agreement, the Company will make every effort to post the finalized staffing schedule by noon Wednesday of each work week. The Company/Union/employee(s) will be responsible for reviewing said staffing and immediately identifying any issues of assignment but no later than noon, Thursday of that week. Should said posting be delayed, the verification period will be extended by twenty-four (24) hours from the actual posting of the schedule.
Should any issues be identified within the twenty-four (24) hour period above, the Company will make the appropriate changes to staff employees as per Articles 10 and/or 13. Should any issues be identified after the twenty-four (24) hour period as described above, the Company’s only obligation will be to assign employees according to bid shift and plant wide seniority.
Should a situation arise which is beyond the control of the Company, which results in employee availability changing during the week after the staffing process has begun, the Company will make a reasonable effort to staff employees as per Articles 10 and 13 however, its only obligation will be
18
to assign employees according to bid shift and plant wide seniority.
10.09
An employee will retain their bid job pay rate for a period of up to two (2) months. After two (2) months the employee will receive the rate of pay for the bid job to which they are regularly scheduled. The employee will return to their bid job pay rate only when scheduled to work in their bid job.
10.10
Employees who have completed the probationary period will be given a minimum of forty-eight (48) hours notice of lay-off except when it is beyond the reasonable control of the Company.
ARTICLE 11 ALTERNATE WORK SCHEDULE FOUR (4) TEN (10) HOUR SHIFTS
When the Company initiates a four (4) day ten (10) hour work schedule on a line/process, the following terms and conditions will apply:
11.01	Four (4) Ten (10) Hour Shifts Staffing When all bid employees do not volunteer for the four (4) ten (IO) hour shift, the Company will attempt to fill the balance of hours from the Employee Profile List. If there are not enough volunteers, the line/process will revert to an eight (8) hour shift.
Bid employees who have not elected to work ten (10) hour shifts will maintain their normal start time for the fifth day
19
unless mutually agreed otherwise, between the Company and employee concerned.
A bid employee and/or volunteer(s) who are working a four (4) ten (10) hour shift who choose not to complete such assignment will be staffed back into their regular five (5) eight (8) hour shift as soon as reasonably possible as per Articles 10 & 13. The employee will only be able to reregister for a ten (10) hour shift assignment as per Article 10.02.
Should more than fifty percent (50%) of the bid employees on the line/process wish to return to a five (5) eight (8) hour shift schedule the line/process will revert back to a five (5) eight (8) hour shift schedule as soon as reasonably possible as per Articles 10 and 13.
11.02	Job Posting
When a vacancy occurs on a bid job which is currently running four (4) ten (10) hour shifts, the Company will post the position as such. Should the successful bidder as described in Article 25, not wish to work the ten (10) hour shift as posted, the Company will attempt to find an available volunteer from the Employee Profile List for the balance of hours in order to maintain the ten (10) hour shift.
If there are not enough volunteer(s) the line/process will revert to an eight (8) hour shift.
11.03	Alternate Work Week Addendum for 10 Hour Shift Paid Holidays
The eight (8) hour entitlement will remain regardless of shift 20
arrangement in that the total annualized work hours are the same.
In weeks where an employee is working this schedule and a paid holiday in accordance with Article 17 occurs, the holiday will be paid at ten (10) hours.
11.04	Vacation
Selection of weeks off will remain the same as current entitlement.
Vacation time is based on forty (40) hours/week for one (1) week.
11.05	Overtime
Any hours worked over ten (10) hours per shift will receive overtime premium.
11.06	Bereavement Leave
Provisions of Article 26 apply, except each day will be paid at the rate of ten (10) hours for each day.
11.07	Sick Benefits
Entitlement will remain as per the current contract. No employee will lose more than twenty-four (24) hours during their first three (3) days of illness.
1 1.08 Shift Premium Regular shift premium will be paid.
All other contract requirements for entitlement will remain in effect.
11.09	Rest Period
Employees will be provided a fifteen (15) minute paid rest period at or near the end of the first eight (8) hours worked provided it does not have an adverse effect on productivity. If such rest period cannot be provided at the end of the first eight (8) hours, it will be provided during the balance of the shift as designated by the Company.
ARTICLE 12 LAY-OFFS OF ONE (1) FULL SHIFT OR LESS
12.01
The Company will not be required to observe the provision of Article 10 for lay-offs of one (1) full shift or less. However, this section shall not be applied for a total of more than six (6) full shifts in any twelve (12) month period. In the event that the Company invokes this Article the Company shall provide written notice within forty-eight (48) hours to the Plant President of the Union (Chairperson) for the purposes of calculating the number of such incidences in the twelve (12) month period as described above.
ARTICLE 13 RECALL/PLANT STAFFING
13.01
Employees will be staffed subject to the conditions of Articles 10 & 13, using the employee’s respective Employee Profile List. When an employee’s bid job is operating, they will be staffed into their bid job according to seniority based upon the following conditions:
a)	When staffing employees as defined in Articles 10 & 22
13, the criteria used for the assignment to a section one (1) bid job as outlined in Article 29 will be both seniority and being fully and immediately qualified to perform the available work. Once both these criteria are met then the employee’s alternate job preference list as per their employee profile will be used. When staffing employees as defined in Articles 10 & 13 into section two (2) bid jobs as outlined in Article 29 employees will be afforded up to one (I) full work week of training unless they cannot perform the bid job as per their employee profile list. Having been afforded one (1) lull work week of training and it is determined that they cannot perform the full scope of the bid job they will be disqualified and reassigned as per the staffing process.
b)	Employees who volunteer for a section one (1), four (4) ten hour position, according to their respective Employee Profile List, will be assigned into an available four (4) ten hour position subject to bid shift seniority and being fully and immediately qualified to perform the work available, and a fully and immediately qualified employee being available to replace them.
c)	Employees who volunteer for a section two (2), four (4) ten hour position, according to their respective Employee Profile List will be afforded up to one (1) lull work week of training.
d)	Should an employee’s bid job not be in operation, and/or they do not have seniority to retain their bid job, the following bumping and recall conditions will apply:
i)	Every effort will be made to staff employees into an available position on their bid shift.
23
ii)	If they cannot be assigned to their bid shift, every effort will be made to staff them to their alternate shift preference.
iii)	If they cannot be assigned to their alternate shift preference every effort will be made to staff them on
another shift.
iv)	Employees who cannot physically do all aspects of the newly assigned position will remain on lay-off and will be reviewed weekly to determine their availability for future assignments in accordance with their Employee Profile List.
13.02
Notwithstanding Articles 13.01 and 14, the parties agree to continue the practice whereby employees are required to leave their bid job to provide relief for absences such as, vacations, floaters, leave of absence, short term disability and workers’ compensation coverage for refresher training and the Company will make every effort to limit the assignment of an employee to a maximum of two (2) weeks per job per calendar year.
13.03
For the purpose of shift identification only, day shift will be referred to as "B" shift; afternoon shift will be referred to as "C" shift; midnight (production), Monday through Friday, will be referred to as “A” shift and midnight (sanitation and pan goods wash up and machine cleaner specialist), Tuesday through Saturday, will be referred to as "D" shift. For purposes of clarity "D" shift commences Monday evening and “A” shift commences Sunday evening.
24
13.04
Employees bumped to "D" shift as per Articles 10 and/or Article 13 will be placed on a voluntary leave of absence in accordance with their Employee Profile List, until such time as work is available on “A”, "B" or "C" shift. Should an employee exercise a voluntary leave of absence and then decide that they are prepared to work on "D" shift, they must provide a representative of the Employee Relations Department with one (I) full week written notice, and they will be added back into the staffing process. Such written notice must be provided by 4:00 p.m. the Friday prior to the staffing of the week in question.
Employees who elect a voluntary leave of absence as defined above will continue benefits for the balance of the month in which they went on leave of absence, plus two (2) full months thereafter as per Article 30.01.
If an employee returns from a leave of absence to "D" shift, they must complete their assignment until such time as they "re,either laid-off, return to their bid shift, or assigned to "B" or "C" shift.
Should a situation arise where the Company cannot adequately staff section one (1) "D" shift jobs with fully and immediately qualified employees to perform the available work, then the junior employee who is fully and immediately qualified to perform the available work and who elected a voluntary leave of absence will be required to report to the assigned shift.
25
Should a situation arise where the Company cannot adequately staff section two (2) "D" shift jobs, the junior employee who elected a voluntary leave of absence will be required to report to perform the available work. Employees who bump into bid jobs identified in section two (2) of the bid job list in Article 29 will be afforded up to one (1) full work week of training. Employees who cannot perform the full scope of the bid job after such training will be disqualified and reassigned as per the staffing process,
13.05
The provisions of Article 19.03 are not applicable when employees are temporarily transferred between “A” and/or "D" shift on Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday of any week.
13.06
Once the staffing process commences each week (normally 9:00 a.m. Monday morning), for the following week, relevant data such as the Employee Profile List, production and staffing requirements and availability of employees, will be frozen at that time for the balance of the week.
Notwithstanding a work week containing a holiday as defined in Article 17 of the Collective Agreement, the Company will make every effort to post the finalized staffing schedule by noon Wednesday of each work week. The Company/Union/employee(s) will be responsible for reviewing said staffing and immediately identifying any issues of assignment but no later than noon, Thursday of that week. Should said posting be delayed, the verification period will be extended by twenty-four (24) hours from the actual posting of the schedule.
26
Should any issues be identified within the twenty-four (24) hour period above, the Company will make the appropriate changes to staff employees as per Articles 10 and/or 13. Should any issues be identified after the twenty-four (24) hour period as described above, the Company’s only obligation will be to assign employees according to bid shift and plant wide seniority.
Should a situation arise which is beyond the control of the Company, which results in employee availability changing during the week after the staffing process has begun, the Company will make a reasonable effort to staff employees as per Articles 10 and 13 however, its only obligation will be to assign employees according to bid shift and plant wide seniority.
13.07
Employees interested in mid week recall must register their availability with Employee Relations during the first full week of April and the first full week of October. Should mid week recall occur, the Company will attempt to contact, by phone, the senior employee. Having exhausted this list the Company will recall in accordance with Article 13.01.
13.08
The Company will contact employees to advise of a recall to work following lay-off. Employees not contacted will be sent a letter via registered mail or courier addressed to the last address recorded with the Company by the employee. Employees are responsible for providing a current address and phone number in writing to the Employee Relations Department.
27
A person being recalled by letter sent via registered mail or courier shall signify their intention to return to work within five (5) calendar days after the notice has been sent out and shall return to work within a further two (2) calendar days.
ARTICLE 14 TEMPORARY TRANSFERS
14.01
Temporary transfers of four (4) weeks or less will be completed through the staffing process indicated in Articles 10 and/or 13.
When the Company is aware of a known absence in excess of four (4) weeks but less than four (4) months, it will post for a period of five (5) working days over a two (2) week period for volunteers.
The temporary assignment will be filled by the senior available employee who is fully and immediately qualified to perform the work available. Having exhausted the volunteer posting and should additional employees still be required, the Company may seek further volunteers and/or fill the remaining requirements through the staffing process.
14.02
A temporary transfer will not exceed four (4) months in duration unless mutually agreed upon by the Company and the Union and the employee involved.
14.03
The Company can temporarily transfer employees for one (I) working day or less. The Company will make a good
28
faith effort to not transfer the same employee more than once in one week unless there are extenuating circumstances.
14.04
An original temporary transfer created as a result of a mater-nity/parental leave of absence and subsequent temporary transfers associated with the original temporary transfer will be excluded from this provision for the duration of the absence.
14.05
Employees will be advised of the estimated duration of the temporary transfer and will be required to remain on such assignment for its duration. Employees will not be prevented from bidding on and being awarded a bid job posting as a result of a temporary transfer assignment.
ARTICLE 15 REDUNDANCY
15.01
In cases of redundancy (permanent lay-off) due to any one or more of the following:
1.	amalgamation of bid jobs
2.	discontinuation of a bid job for twelve (12) consecutive calendar months
3.	changes in equipment and or technology
4.	job elimination at any time the following procedure will apply:
a) Should more than one (1) employee be involved as a 29
result of one (1) and/or three (3) above the newly created bid job(s) will be offered to the senior employee(s) affected, who will have one (1) working day to decide to accept their choice of bid job(s) if applicable or decline it/them. Should they decline, the next senior employee(s) will be offered the opportunity and so on until an employee(s) accepts the new bid job(s). Should
no employee(s) accept the new bid job(s) then the job(s) shall be posted as per Article 25.01. The junior employ-
ee(s) affected shall be declared redundant.
The employee(s) will be given training for the newly create bid job(s) and must acquire all the necessary skills to fulfill the scope of the work in a reasonable length of time. Should the employee(s) be unable to fulfill the full scope of the work after a reasonable length of time, the employee(s) will become non-bid employ-ee(s) and the bid job(s) will be posted as per Article 25.01.
b) Any employee displaced by such a job change, as defined above, or whose bid job becomes redundant will:
1.	displace the most junior bid employee on the seniority list, excluding tradespersons, on the bid shift.
2.	if there is no junior bid employee on the bid shift on the seniority list, the employee will displace the most junior bid employee on the seniority list, excluding tradespersons.
30
3.	in the event an employee chooses not to displace into the bid job in which 15.01 (b) I) or 2) above places them, they will become a non-bid employee.
4.	an employee will be given training for the bid job and must acquire all the necessary skills to fulfill the scope of the work in a reasonable length of time.
5.	in the event that more than one (1) employee is
impacted by redundancy, the junior employee will be
displaced through the redundancy process first.
6.	once a position has been officially declared redun-
dant the redundancy shall be exercised within three (3) weeks of this date.
15.02	Reversal of Redundancy
When a bid job becomes available which was made redundant as described in Article 15.01, one (1) through four (4), the following will apply:
1.	If the bid job which has been declared redundant or the newly created bid job as described in Article 15.01 becomes available for a period in excess of four (4) consecutive full weeks within the twelve (12) month period, it will be tilled by the previous senior bid holder unless they have successfully bid on another bid job through Article 25.
2.	If the bid job does not mn for the four (4) consecutive
full weeks the bid job shall not be considered reactivated. If for some unforeseen or unusual circumstance the
31
schedule should fluctuate up and down causing the redundant bid job to repeatedly be filled, the Union and the Company may review and reconsider the reactivation.
3.	When filling the vacant position as a result of vacation, workers’ compensation, matemity/parental leave, shortterm disability or long-term disability for a period of up to four (4) months this time shall not be considered a reactivation under this Article.
4.	In the event that an employee is absent more than four
(4) months due to short-term disability, long-term disability or workers’ compensation and the bid job is required, the person declared redundant will be reinstated to the position. The employee who holds the original bid job who is off work for any of the above will be allowed to return to their original bid job for up to two (2) years from the date they went off.
5.	If an employee who has been off work as per 15.02 (4) above returns to work for less than four (4) consecutive weeks and is absent again as per 15.02 (4) above, the temporary bid employee will be returned to the position in question. For the purpose of calculating the two (2) year period as identified in 15.02 (4) above the Company will use the original absence date.
6.	Notwithstanding Article 25.04, should an employee bid into a position which is subsequently declared redundant within a twelve (12) month period, the employee will be afforded another bid opportunity.
32
ARTICLE 16 LINE TEAM(S)/NATURAL WORK TEAM(S)
16.01
The following are the current line teams/natural work teams as of February 1,2000:
Oh Henry	Syrup Freeze	Receiving
Nutional/Hayssen Eatmore Rose Forgrove Distribution Center Jensen	Glosettes Chocolate	Processing	Carousel
Halloween	Jr. Clyborne(s)	Nut	Processing	Sanitation
PBC	Pan Goods
Cherry Blossom Rovema/Adco
16.02	Rotation
a)	For the purpose of on line rotation only, for the line teams identified below, the current line team rotation practices where possible and practical, will be maintained as equitably as possible; every half 1/2 hour with the exception of Mr. Freeze, which will have a fifteen (15) minute rotation where practical. Such rotation will not adversely affect productivity and for the purposes of this Article, productivity will be defined as a ‘hot seat changeover’. There will be no cross line team rotation.
Syrup
National/Hayssen
Jensen
Halloween
Freeze	Cherry Blossom
Eatmore	Rose Forgrove
Glosettes	Rovema/Adco
Jr. Clyborne(s)
b)	Current rotation practices will be maintained in the line teams and/or natural line teams outlined below. Such rotation will not adversely affect productivity and for the
33
purposes of this Article, productivity will be defined as a ‘hot seat changeover’. There will be no cross line team rotation.
Oh Henry	PBC	Distribution Centre
Pan Goods	Nut Processing	Carousel
Chocolate Processing
16.03
The above line teams and/or natural work teams may change subject to operational requirements.
ARTICLE 17 HOLIDAYS
17.01
The following days will be recognized by the Company as paid holidays:
New Year’s Day Good Friday Victoria Day Canada Day Civic Holiday Floater Holidays (2)
Floating Holidays will be celebrated by each employee on a date to be decided by the Company and the employee. Employees must provide two (2) weeks’ notice as to the day they intend to celebrate the floating holiday. While the Company will make every effort to accommodate employees, the holiday must not interfere with the Company’s ability to meet production requirements. The Company will respond to an employee’s request for time off within five (5)
34
Labour Day Thanksgiving
The Day before Christmas Day Christmas Day
The Day after Christmas Day
working days of the date they requested to be off. In the event either the Provincial or Federal Government declares another holiday which must be observed and paid, then such holiday shall replace one (I) floating holiday referred to above.
17.02
To qualify for holiday pay, an employee will be required:
a)	to have completed the probationary period.
b)	to have worked the scheduled shift on the day immediately preceding the holiday and the scheduled shift on the day immediately succeeding the holiday. However, payment for the holiday will be made if an employee worked during the week in which the holiday occurred, but was prevented from working the days immediately preceding and succeeding the holiday because of lay-off by the Company, due to lack of work, or verified personal illness. Such verification will be in the form of a doctor’s note to be presented upon returning to work.
c)	Notwithstanding Article 17.02(b), employees on an
approved leave of absence for up to five (5) working days, before and/or after a holiday, will be paid for the holiday, provided they work their regular scheduled shift immediately preceding and succeeding the approved leave.
17.03
Where a paid holiday occurs during an employee’s vacation, the employee will be given a day off with pay in lieu there-
35
of at a time arranged with the Company, provided the employee is otherwise qualified to receive pay for the said holiday.
17.04
In the weeks in which paid holidays occur, for purposes of weekly overtime, the work week will be reduced by eight (8) hours for each holiday and overtime will, in such weeks, be paid for the time worked in excess of eight (8) hours daily and the appropriate reduced work week, but not both.
17.05
a)	Where a paid holiday occurs on a Saturday, it will be celebrated on the immediately preceding Friday. Where a paid holiday occurs on a Sunday, it will be celebrated on the immediately succeeding Monday. Holidays shall be deemed to be on the actual calendar day on which they fall except where changed by Federal or Provincial legislation.
b)	Employees whose regular schedule consists of eleven
and a half (111/2) or twelve (12) hours per day, who are originally scheduled to work on a declared holiday as outlined in Article 17.01, and work on such holiday is cancelled by the Company, will receive holiday pay equivalent to the total hours that they were originally scheduled to work on that day subject to the provision of Article 17.02.
c)	Notwithstanding the above, Canada Day shall be celebrated on:
36
Friday June30'\ 2000 Monday July 2"1,2001 Monday July T1,2002 Monday June30'\ 2003
17.06
Except for engineers, maintenance and milk receiving, no employee shall be compelled to work on a paid holiday.
ARTICLE 18 VACATION
18.01
For vacation purposes only, continuous service will be calculated as of June 30th. However, in the year an employee reaches their fifth, tenth, eighteenth, and twenty-fifth year of continuous service, they will receive the additional vacation on their anniversary date. In the following year, their vacation entitlement will be as defined in Article 18.01 and Article 18.02.
18.02
In each year of the Collective Agreement, vacations with pay will be granted in accordance with the following schedule:
a)	One (1) year of continuous service - two (2) weeks.
b)	Five (5) years of continuous service - three (3) weeks.
c)	Ten (1 0) years of continuous service - four (4) weeks
d)	Eighteen (I 8) years of continuous service - five (5)
weeks.
e)	Twenty-five (25) years of continuous service - six (6)
weeks.
37
18.03
Employees with less than one (1) year of continuous service as of June 30lh will be paid a vacation allowance in accordance with the Employment Standards Act of the Province of Ontario.
18.04
Payment for vacations will be on the basis of two percent (2%) of an employee’s earnings during the previous vacation year for each week of vacation to which they are entitled. Vacation pay will be issued by no later than June 30lh each
year,
In addition, employees who pre-register no later than the last regular scheduled work day of October, will have access to vacation pay for the total amount of vacation pay accrued. Such accrued amount will be issued during the month of December. Furthermore, such payment will be deducted from each employee’s total yearly vacation pay earnings.
18.05
All earned vacations must be completed during the twelve (12) months succeeding June 30lh. No more than four (4) weeks vacation can be taken at one time without the Company’s permission.
18.06
Where the Company does not close the plant for vacation purposes or a vacation period, vacations will be granted on the basis of seniority by bid shift, with senior employees being given the first selection of vacation dates. However, this shall not be applied to the detriment of the Company
38
maintaining sufficient employees who are qualified to perform the work.
Employees will be afforded the opportunity to register foi vacation on a quarterly basis for the periods of July-August-September; October-November-December; January-February-March and April-May-June.
By 4:00 p.m. on February 17'\ 2000 employees must register their vacation requests for the months of April-May-June and the vacation schedule wilt be posted by March 17lh, 2000.
By 4:00 p.m. on May 19“', 2000, employees must register their vacation requests for the months of July-August-September and the vacation schedule will be posted by June 16'\ 2000.
By 4:00 p.m. on August 18lh, 2000, employees must register their vacation requests for the months of October-November-December and the vacation schedule will be posted by September 15'\ 2000,
By 4:00 p.m. on November 3"1, 2000, employees must register their vacation requests for the months of January-February-March and the vacation schedule will be posted by December 1“ 2000.
A similar timing schedule will be issued for the balance of the Collective Agreement.
Once vacation has been granted no change may be made except with the consent of the Company.
39
Employees who do not register for vacation by the applicable dates will forfeit any right to exercise the terms thereof.
If any additional vacation requests are approved by the
Company, they shall be administered on a first-come, first-
served basis.
18.07
a)	In the event of a partial vacation shutdown for the summer or Christmas period, a senior employee shalt not be forced to take vacation if they have the ability to immediately perform any of the remaining work within the Plant.
b)	In order to staff the facility during the vacation shut-
down, the Company will post for volunteers identifying bid job and an estimate of the number of people required. Employees who volunteer will be selected and assigned based upon seniority and having the ability to immediately perform the available work. Should insufficient volunteers be obtained, the most junior qualified employee(s) will be required to work.
18.08
a)	Employees may take one vacation week in increments of less than five (5) days at a time except during the months of June, July and August.
b)	Notwithstanding Article 18.08(a), Maintenance employees may take one (1) week in increments of less than five (5) days at any time throughout the calendar year.
40
c)	In 18.08(a) and (b) above, such vacation time will be mutually agreed to by the Company and the employee. Employees must provide two (2) weeks written notice as to their vacation request. The Company will respond to an employee's request for time off within five (5) working days of the day they requested to be off. While the Company will make every effort to accommodate employees, their vacation must not interfere with the Company’s ability to meet production requirements.
ARTICLE 19 HOURS OF WORK
19.01
The Company does not guarantee to provide work for daily or weekly hours, or for any other hours.
19.02
The regular work week will consist of forty (40) hours to be worked in five (5) days of eight (8) hours each day. The days of work, starting and quitting times will be determined by the Company in accordance with its requirements.
When employees arc required to work a shift on Saturday or Sunday as a part of their regular work week, they will be paid a premium of one dollar and twenty-five cents ($ 1.25) per hour for all hours worked from the start of “A” shift Saturday up to the start of “A” shift Sunday. A premium of two dollars ($2.00) per hour will be paid for all hours worked from the start of “A” shift Sunday up to the start of "A" shift Monday. The Saturday and Sunday premiums shall not be considered a part of an employee’s hourly rate anti will not be paid for any hours where the overtime rate is applicable.
41
19.03
Except where it is beyond the reasonable control of the Company, where the shift to be worked in a work week is to be changed, any employee involved in the said change will be given a minimum of forty-eight (48) hours notice. Employees will not be required to work shifts where there is not twelve (12) hours off between the end of one shift and the start of the next shift. Where an employee voluntarily works, those hours before twelve (12) shall be paid at the overtime rate.
19.04
The lunch period will be one-half (1/2) hour without pay.
19.05
a)	A rest period of fifteen (15) minutes’ duration will be
provided in each half shift, at times designated by the Company.
b)	Where an employee is scheduled to continue working
overtime at the end of their regular shift for a period of
two (2) consecutive hours or more, they will be provided with a fifteen (I 5) minute paid rest period at or near the end of their regular shift and every two (2) hours thereafter, provided it does not have an adverse effect on productivity. If such rest period cannot be provided at the end of the regular shift it will be provided during the period of overtime work at a time designated by the Company.
42
19.06
The regular work week for Stationary Engineers will consist of forty-two (42) hours to be averaged over a four (4) week period. Changes in work schedules will be posted as far in advance as practical.
19.07
A Stationary Engineer who is completing their shift will be required to remain on the job until the reporting employee is available and ready to take over the succeeding shift, or until other arrangements have been made by the Maintenance Manager. No employee will be allowed to work more than seventeen (17) consecutive hours.
19.08
Employees with seniority excluding Stationary Engineers, will be given preference of shift start times within their bid job. This preference of shift start times is understood to be in full week increments.
Where employees mutually agree to temporarily change shifts the change must he agreed to by the Company and the Union and the employee involved.
19.09
All seniority employees except Maintenance personnel and Stationary Engineers, shall have the opportunity of selecting the shift they wish to work according to seniority and in accordance with Article 25.01(a).
19.10
No employee will he allowed to work more than seventeen (I 7) consecutive hours.
43
ARTICLE 20 OVERTIME
20.01
Overtime at the rate of time and one-half an employee’s regular hourly rate will be paid for all time worked in excess of eight (8) hours daily and forty (40) hours weekly, but not both, Monday through Saturday. Overtime rate for all Sunday hours worked will be twice the regular hourly rate. Overtime for work on a statutory holiday will be twice the regular hourly rate.
20.02
a)	Overtime opportunities will be offered to the most senior employee bid to the job who is capable of immediately performing the job.
i)	Overtime opportunities for cleaning in offices, candy counter, cafeterias, labs and Distribution
Centre conference room will be afforded to the bid employee(s) in the Janitorial bid job who normally perform the work and then offered on a plant wide basis.
b)	In the event that there is still not enough overtime coverage, the remaining overtime opportunities will be offered to the senior employee in the plant who is capable of immediately performing the job. Employees can register for any overtime but final assignment will be determined by the Company.
c)	Notwithstanding the above, when overtime of three (3) hours or less is required at the beginning or end of the shift, the overtime will be offered to the senior employee bid to the job on the shift. If sufficient overtime coverage is not obtained then this overtime opportunity will
44
be offered to the senior employee on the shift who is capable of immediately performing the job. Where a ten (10) minute overlap (or less) occurs, it will he considered that no overlap exists and in such cases an employee may sign for and work overtime.
d)	The Company reserves the right to deviate from above if employees’ health or work is deemed to suffer as a result of excessive overtime.
e)	An employee who is performing overtime work in a bid job that is lower than their own, will be paid the overtime rate which is applicable to their bid job.
f)	Production leadhands will obtain overtime in their lead-hand position and/or by plant wide seniority. Maintenance leadhands will obtain overtime in their leadhand position, and/or their bid job and/or by plant wide seniority.
g)	An employee who as a result of working emergency
overtime as approved, and verified by their supervisor, does not work forty (40) regular hours in their scheduled work week will be paid the applicable overtime premium for all overtime hours worked on the weekend.
h)	An employee who is sent home due to a lack of work or
is notified not to report to work, during their regular work week, will he deemed to have worked their scheduled shift and shall be paid at the applicable overtime premium for all hours worked on the weekend.
i)	Recognizing there are varying shift start times based on different production schedules and other services (i.e. Sanitation) supporting these schedules, an employee may sign for and work overtime that overlaps a shift. Where a ten (10) minute overlap (or less) occurs, it will
45
be considered that no overlap exists and in such cases an employee may sign for and work overtime. Should enough volunteers still not be found other employees who signed for the overtime will be utilized according to their availability to work the overtime if practicable.
j)	Probationary employees will qualify for overtime only after all employees with seniority have had the opportunity to work the overtime. The exception to this will be when a probationary employee has been assigned a bid job and is therefore deemed to be bid on the job and is performing the function on a regular basis.
k)	A week-end overtime sign-up roster will be posted by
12:00 noon Tuesday of each week. Employees will be offered the opportunity to sign up for overtime between 12:00 noon Tuesday and 12:00 noon Wednesday of each week. By 12:00 noon Wednesday the overtime rosters will be taken down and employees will not be allowed to cancel their registration without a legitimate reason. Employees who register for overtime are expected to work their scheduled overtime shift and the provisions of Article 20.03 are applicable.
The finalized overtime roster will be posted by 12:00 noon Thursday of each week. Employees are responsible for reviewing such overtime schedule and immediately identifying issues of assignment/entitlement to the employee’s supervisor by 12:00 noon Friday.
l)	During the vacation shutdown period, referred to in
Article 18.07(b), overtime will be afforded in the following manner:
i) Senior employee(s) who have signed for overtime in the week which they are scheduled to work and are
46
capable of immediately performing the job.
ii)	Senior employee(s) who have signed for overtime and signed to work during the vacation shutdown period but not scheduled to work during the week in which the overtime occurs and are capable of immediately performing the job.
iii)	Senior employee(s) who signed to work the overtime during the vacation shutdown period and who are capable of immediately performing the job.
On an exception basis the Company reserves the right to post additional overtime requirements based upon changing business needs. Should this occur, the Company will attempt to contact the relative bid job employee(s). The Union will be notified in advance of such situations.
The Company and Union are committed to making every effort possible to resolve such issues in a timely manner in order to avoid overtime opportunity errors.
20.03
If an employee commits to work a required overtime shift and fails to report for work on two (2) occasions in a rolling twelve (12) month period without providing a legitimate reason to the Company or fails to provide a medical certificate which would excuse the absence, then the employee will have their name put on the forced overtime list.
The Company shall have the right to schedule employees to accommodate production needs from the forced overtime list. If an employee fails to report for the forced overtime scheduled shift they will be subject to progressive disci-
47
pline. An employee’s name shall be removed from the forced overtime list after a two (2) month period. The Company agrees that people excluded from the forced overtime list shall have first refusal of overtime requirements, as defined in Article 20.02.
20.04
Having exhausted the voluntary overtime list and the forced overtime list as described in Article 20.03, if Hershey National Stock level on a product drops below five (5) weeks inventory the Company has the right to select the junior qualified employee in the Plant to perform the required overtime. This will be referred to as ‘mandatory overtime’. The inventory stock level documentation of the specific product will be reviewed with the Plant President of the Union (Chairperson) prior to implementing the mandatory overtime.
Should other circumstances arise, the overtime requirement policy will apply upon mutual agreement between the Company and the Union.
An employee who fails to report for work as described above without providing a legitimate reason to the Company or who fails to provide a medical certificate which would excuse the absence will be subject to progressive discipline.
20.05
Employees will not be scheduled for forced overtime as defined in Article 20.03 and/or mandatory overtime as in Article 20.04 on the weekend(s) immediately preceding or immediately following a scheduled full week of vacation.
48
In order to accommodate production needs, the Company will select the next senior qualified employee to perform the required overtime. Employees whose names are on the forced overtime list as defined in Article 20.03 and who are excused from forced overtime for scheduled vacation, shall remain on the forced overtime list for an additional period equal to the time they were excused.
20.06
Tf unforeseen circumstances arise after 3:00 p.m. on Thursday which require the cancellation of a portion(s) of scheduled week-end overtime, overtime for employees scheduled to work on the affected jobs will be cancelled and the finalized overtime roster will not be revised.
20.07
When the Company has posted for overtime and seniority employees have declined the opportunity, the Company will maintain the right to assign students and/or part-time employees. Students and/or part-time employees working a normal work week will not be considered as circumventing overtime opportunities of seniority employees. This shall not restrict the Company from exercising its right to assign employees to work overtime under Articles 20.03,20.04 and Letter of Intent #20.
ARTICLE 21 CALL-IN PAY/REPORTING FOR WORK PAY
2l.0l
An employee who is called in to work to meet emergency
49
conditions after having completed their shift and having left the Company property, will be guaranteed the equivalent of not less than four (4) hours pay at the employee’s applicable hourly rate of pay or one and one-half (11/2) times the employee‘s hourly rate of pay for all hours worked, or twice the employee’s hourly pay for all hours worked on Sunday or a Statutory Holiday whichever is greater. In addition, the Company will pay one (1) hour bonus pay at an employee’s regular hourly rate of pay for all call-ins.
An employee who has been called into work and subsequently called to cancel the call-in shall be guaranteed one hour’s pay for such call.
21.02
If the call-in occurs less than one (I) hour before the regular starting time, the call-in pay will be limited to the time remaining prior to the said regular time.
21.03
Any employee called at home by a supervisor to solve a work related problem shall receive one hour’s pay at their regular rate.
21.04
An employee who reports for work at the start of their shift, without having been notified in advance not to report, and no work is available for such an employee, will be paid four (4) hours pay at their regular rate. This obligation on the part of the Company will not prevail where an employee does not keep the Company notified of their current address and the telephone number if any, or where the Company is prevented from providing work because of fire, flood, lack
50
of hydro or steam power, strike, or any similar circumstances.
ARTICLE 22 TRAINING
22.01
In order to ensure that Hershey Canada Smiths Falls, develops and maintains a best-in-class work force capable of meeting business needs and to ensure we empower the individual to achieve their absolute best, the Company and the Union agree to maintain a Training Team. This team will consist of three (3) members of Management and three (3) Union members designated by the Union, with the goal of assisting the Company in identifying training requirements, in order to allow for such things as:
a)	Selection of the proper number of employees to be trained for overtime back-up needs.
b)	Vacation and absenteeism relief.
c)	Development of technical, business and relationship training needs.
d)	Identification of positions that run on a year-round basis and development of methodology that will allow some senior employees to be trained so that they can remain active year-round.
e)	Methodology for allowing employees to maintain their current qualifications once trained.
22.02
Within each contract year, the Company will commit to training thirty (30) employees, of which a minimum of ten (10) will be trained on section two (2) bid jobs as described in Article 29. Employees trained in section two (2) bid jobs
51
will be afforded up to a maximum of one (1) work week of training. The balance of the opportunities will be distributed based on the remaining criteria listed above. In addition, up to a maximum of ten (10) employees per contract year who are disqualified under Articles 10.06 and/or 13.04 will, upon request, be afforded up to one (1) additional full work week of training on a section two (2) bid job. These disqualified employees will be limited to additional training on one (1) section two (2) bid job.
22.03
In the event that training is required for the purpose(s) of new business and/or technological change(s) and the Company and Union Committee have reached mutual agreement, employee(s) will be trained out of order of seniority.
22.04
In addition, should further training be required during plant shutdown period(s) for other purpose(s) such as, net weight, PEP/HACCP, operating process(es) and/or employee development such as team building, root cause analysis, etc. and pending mutual agreement between the Company and Union Committee, employee(s) will be trained out of order of seniority.
22.05
Effective February P', 2000 the Company will have the option of appointing trainer(s). Trainer(s), from time to time, will be required to be trained in other bid jobs in order to train other employees. Furthermore, trainer(s) may be required to be staffed on any shift for training purposes, how-
52
ever, in doing so trainer(s) shall not displace any bid employee.
Trainers will be subject to the provisions of Articles 10 and 13. Should the Company and/or employee(s) terminate the employee’s trainer assignment the provisions of Article 15 will apply.
Trainers will obtain overtime in their trainer position and/or by plant wide seniority.
ARTICLE 23 MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
23.01
The Company agrees to continue paying for all benefits during an employee’s maternity/parental leave of absence.
23.02
An employee who is required by law to serve as a juror or crown witness will be paid their full regular wages based on forty (40) hours per week during the time of such service provided they report for work on any days they are not required to be in attendance in the courtroom.
23.03
The Company will make reasonable provisions for the safety of its employees during their hours of work. The Joint Health and Safety Committee will meet once per month unless the Union and the Company otherwise agree. The Union will actively participate with the Company in the promotion of safe working habits and practices.
53
23.04
Supervisors will not perform work normally performed by employees in the bargaining unit except:
a)	in cases of emergency conditions;
b)	when performing development or experimental work;
c)	when checking production on machines or on any lines;
d)	when instructing employees or other supervisory per-
sonnel;
e)	when regular employees are not available due to being
late or otherwise absent from their work or jobs.
23.05
Each tradesperson or apprentice who is required by the Company to supply tools to be used in connection with their work will be given an allowance of $180 in each year for the purchase and replacement of tools. Payment will be included in the last pay in June of each year.
23.06
The Company agrees to provide the Union with its own bulletin board. The Union agrees to review all postings for the board with the Manager, Employee Relations or their designate for permission, before posting.
ARTICLE 24 UNIFORMS/SAFETY SHOES
24.01
By September 15,2000 and in fourteen (14) month intervals thereafter, employees will be provided with uniforms based on the need for replacement, at the discretion of the employee, up to a maximum of ten (10) pieces of clothing as per
54
their request with the following conditions:
i)	Employees may choose one (I) jacket per year which is equal to three (3) pieces of clothing.
ii)	Coveralls or jumpsuits are equal to two (2) pieces of clothing.
iii)	Employees may choose up to two (2) sweatshirts.
iv)	One (I) apron is equal to one (1) piece of clothing.
v)	All employees hired after the date of the first uniform
issue shall receive an appropriate number of uniforms to accommodate them until the next issuance date.
The cleaning and maintenance of uniforms and any additions to the number supplied by the Company shall be the responsibility of employees. Uniforms shall be kept clean and in good condition. All uniforms worn shall be of the design and colour required by the Company.
24.02
The Company will pay each seniority employee an annual safety shoe allowance. Payment will be included in the first pay of February of each year. Effective February 2000, the safety shoe allowance will be $100.00 per year.
Any new employee will be paid the applicable safety shoe allowance upon the completion of their probationary period.
Safety shoes shall only be worn in connection with work for the Company and shall be left in the plant.
55
ARTICLE 25 JOB POSTING
25.01
a)	Notices of job vacancies, which will include the shift to be worked, will be posted on the bulletin boards for five (5) working days spanning a two (2) week period, exclusive of Saturdays, Sundays, and paid holidays. During that period, employees who have completed the probationary period may make written application to the Employee Relations Department. Vacancies will be filled by the most senior applicant who is capable and whose performance is satisfactory to the Company. This will not be arbitrarily exercised in an unfair or discriminatory manner, If no one applies for the vacancy, the Company will fill such vacancy with the most junior non-bid employee who is capable and whose performance is satisfactory to the Company. This will not be arbitrarily exercised in an unfair or discriminatory man-tier. No probationary employee will be assigned a posted position unless there are no capable non-bid employees on the seniority list. If there are no capable non-bid employees on the seniority list, probationary employees will be assigned a posted position and will be deemed to be bid on the job after the successful completion of theii probationary period.
Employees will have the opportunity of changing shifts and/or jobs only through the posting procedure. If applicable, the Company will include capabilities and experience required on job postings.
b)	Temporary jobs which are less than four (4) months in
56
duration will be posted for volunteers subject to the conditions of Article 14. A temporary job created as a result of a maternity/parental leave of absence and subsequent temporary jobs associated with the original temporary job will be excluded from this provision for the duration of the absence.
c)	All job vacancy notices posted shall state the bid job
title, shift, wage rate and other relevant information.
d)	Within a five (5) working day period from the time of
determining the successful applicant the Company shall post the name of the successful applicant for a period of five (5) working days and provide them with a copy.
e)	The Plant President of the Union (Chairperson) shall be supplied with a list of all temporary jobs and the person working on said job monthly.
f)	In the event that an employee is absent due to short term disability, long term disability, or Workers’ Compensation their bid job will be posted after four (4) months, Absence due to maternity/parental leave of absence, are excluded from this provision for the duration of the absence. The employee who holds the original bid who is off work for sick leave (etc.) will be allowed to return to their original job for up to two (2) years from the date they went off. A temporary bid job posting as described above will clearly indicate that the position will be temporary up to two (2) years from the date they went off.
57
In the event that the temporary bid job holder is displaced by the original bid job holder returning to their job within the two (2) year period, they will be displaced as per Article 15 of the Collective Agreement.
In the event that the original bid job holder does not return within the two (2) year period, or elects to terminate their services with the Company, the temporary bid job holder will be deemed the incumbent to the bid job.
A temporary job posting as described above will clearly indicate on the posting that the position will be temporary for up to two (2) years.
g)	An employee can only hold one (1) bid job
h)	The Plant President of the Union (Chairperson) is to be copied on all correspondence pertaining to job postings.
i)	For the purpose of this Article a job posting will result if there is a requirement for:
1.	a vacated bid job
2.	a new bid job
3.	a bid job as defined in Article 25.01 (g)
4.	a bid job which is reactivated after being vacant in
excess of one (1) year.
25.02
Only the original vacancy and the first two (2) subsequent vacancies resulting from filling the original vacancy will be posted. However, where further vacancies occur, they will be posted for forty-eight (48) hours. Vacancies will be filled by
58
the senior capable employee(s) who expresses interest providing their performance is satisfactory to the Company. This will not be arbitrarily exercised in an unfair or discriminatory manner. When there are no successful candidates the vacancy shall be filled in accordance with Article 25.01(a).
25.03
An employee who is awarded a bid job through the posting procedure shall receive the rate for the new bid job in fourteen (14) working days from the date they were awarded the bid job or the date on which they are placed on the job, whichever occurs first. Once awarded the bid job, an employee will only be eligible for overtime in their former bid job on a plant wide seniority basis. The successful applicant will be notified within five (5) working days after the posting period is completed.
The successful candidate shall be moved to their new bid job within twenty-eight (28) calendar days of a successful bid unless mutually agreed to by the Company, the Union and the employee involved. Unless laid off, the successful candidate must be available to report to the new bid job within twenty-eight (28) calendar days. Employees who are on short term disability, long term disability or workerfs compensation with a return to work date which is undefined or beyond twenty-eight (28) calendar days from the expiry of the posting shall be disqualified. The successful candidate shall be eligible for overtime in their new bid job subject to being fully and immediately qualified.
59
25.04
Employees will be restricted to receiving two (2) bid jobs through the posting procedure in a twelve month period.
25.05
An employee who is absent from work and who wishes to apply for a bid job vacancy may complete the appropriate application through the Employee Relations Department. If there is a vacancy, they will be given full consideration along with other bids received. Such application will be null and void upon the employee’s return to work.
ARTICLE 26 BEREAVEMENT LEAVE
26.01
An employee who has completed the probationary period will be allowed a bereavement leave of absence with pay as follows:
a)	Up to three (3) working days in the event of the death of their father, mother, sister, brother, wife/husband, child, grandchild, mother-in-law, father-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, stepfather, stepmother, stepchild and grandparents.
b)	One (1) working day in the event of the death of a brother-in-law or sister-in-law.
26.02
Such time off will be paid at the regular wage the employee would have received if they had worked their regular scheduled hours.
60
26.03
If a death occurs to a member of an employee’s family outlined in Article 26.01 while the employee is on vacation, the balance of their remaining vacation may be rescheduled at a time mutually agreeable to the Company and the employee. The employee will be eligible for a Bereavement Leave of Absence with pay as per Article 26.01.
ARTICLE 27 DEDUCTION OF UNION DUES
27.01
On receipt of authorization forms individually and voluntarily signed by employees, the Company will deduct union dues in the amount as designated by the Union from the pay accumulated to the credit of such employees for the second pay period of each calendar month.
Amounts so deducted will be forwarded to a designated official of the Union within twenty-one (21) calendar days after the deductions have been made.
27.02
Authorization for the deduction of union dues will be made on copies of the following form:
I.......................... hereby authorize Hershey
Canada Inc. to deduct my monthly dues to Retail, Wholesale Canada - CAW, Local 462 and forward the dues so deducted to the Secretary-Treasurer of Retail, Wholesale Canada -CAW, Local 462, whose receipt therefore shall be considered a discharge to the Company for the amounts so deducted. Such an authorization shall be irrevocable.
61
Signed . Address
27.03
New employees hired by the Company shall be required to authorize the deduction of union dues from their pay. The deduction of such dues shall commence after the employee has been employed for sixty (60) worked days. When a new employee is hired, they will be advised there is a Collective Agreement in effect and, within two (2) days after they commence work, such new employee will be introduced to the area steward.
27.04
The Union will save the Company harmless from any and all claims which may be made against the Company by employees for amounts deducted from pay as herein provided.
ARTICLE 28 LEAVE OF ABSENCE
28.01
Leave of absence without pay and without loss of seniority may be granted by the Company to employees for personal reasons. An employee requesting leave shall make such a request in writing at least two (2) weeks in advance of the date when the leave is required. Under normal circumstances, personal leave, when granted by the Company, shall not extend beyond four (4) months.
62
In exceptional circumstances the Company may consider requests for extended leaves of absence beyond four (4) months, but not to exceed one (1) year.
Should employee(s) be granted a leave of absence for exceptional circumstances which will be determined by the Company, the employee(s) shall not be required to use vacation and/or floaters for this leave of absence.
28.02
Leave of absence without pay and without loss of seniority will be granted by the Company to not more than twelve (12) employees at a time to attend Union functions, provided the request for such a leave is made at least two (2) weeks in advance of the effective date of said leave. Each year, the Company will permit two (2) individuals, designated by the Union, to take leaves of absence for union business to the extent deemed necessary by the Union. The total accumulation of leave of absence for Union functions for all other employees shall not exceed one hundred (100) working days in any twelve (12) month period. Subject to operational requirements the Company will consider special requests for particular leaves of absences on an individual basis.
28.03
Leave of absence without loss of seniority will be granted by the Company for the adoption of a child up to a period of six (6) months without any form of compensation.
63
ARTICLE 29 WAGES/SHIFT PREMIUM
29.01
The Company will classify employees and pay applicable wage rates in accordance with the wage schedule.
64
WAGE SCHEDULE
RTD .TOR T.TST	Effective February 1. 2000	Effective February 1. 2ftft1	Effective February 1. 2002	Effective February 1.2003
	Less than 2 Years 2 Years &Over	Less than 2 Years 2Years & Over	Less than 2 Years 2 Years & Over	Less than 2 Years 2 Years & Over
SECTION ONE	16.44 16.73	16.89 17.18	17.32 17.61	17.82 18.11
RATE OF PAY Oh Henry Kitchen Cook				
RATE OF PAY Machine Cleaner Specialist Storeskeepcr	16.43 16.72	16.88 17.17	17.31 17.60	17.81 18.10
RATE OF PAY Beetz Operator Cherry Blossom Operator Chocolate Processing Helper Conche Operator Eatmore Cooker Freeze Poucher Operator Halloween Operator Hayssen Operator Jensen operator Liquor Mill & Refiner Milk Condenser National Ooerator	16.13 16.42	16.58 16.87	17.01 17.30	17.51 17.80
Os
Os
RTD .TOR T.TST fcon’O	Effective February 1. 2000	Effective Fehmarv 1. 2001	Effective February 1.2002	Effective February 1,2003
	Less than 2 Yean 2 Years &Ove	Less than 2 Yean ■ 2Years &Over	Less than 2 Years 2 Years & O v i	Less than 2 Year: r 2 Years & Ove
Nut Processing Operator Oh Henry Operator Pan Goods Washup Panning Operator Paste Mix & Refiner PBC Operator Plow & Double Mixer Rovema Operator Symphony Robot Operator Syrup Maker Syrup Operator	16.13 16.42	16.58 16.87	17.01 17.30	17.51 17.80
RATE OF PAY Chocolate/North End Receiver Packaging Receiver	15.82 16.11	16.27 16.56	16.70 16.99	17.20 17.49
BATE OF PAY Chocolate Processing Line Cleaner DC Material Handler Eatmore Cutter Freeze Lab Attendant Freeze Material Handler	15.72 16.01	16.17 16.46	16.60 16.89	17.10 17.39
RTD .TOR T.TST tcon’t.1	Effective February 1.2000	Effective February 1. 2001	Effective February 1.2002	Effective Februarv 1. 2003
	Less than 2 Years 2 Years & Over	Less than 2 Years 2 Years & Over	Less than 2 Years 2 Years & Over	Less than 2 Years 2 Years & Over
Freeze Mixer General Material Handler Glosette Line Attendant Nut Processing Material Handler Oh Henry Line Attendant PBC Line Attendant Peanut Butter Maker Rose Forgrove Line Attendant Sanitation Line Cleaner Syrup Operator Packer	15.72 16.01	16.17 16.46	16.60 16.89	17.10 17.39
SECTION TWO				
RATE OF PAY Campbell/Cello#6 Operator Packer Candy Counter Packer Carousel/Spiral/Palletizer Centrifuger Cherry Blossom Cream Maker Cherry Blossom Cream Maker Cherry Blossom Operator Packer Eatmore Operator Packer	15.56 15.85	16.01 16.30	16.44 16.73 1	16.94 17.23
Os
oo
BID JOB LIST fcon’U	Effective February 1. 2000	Effective February 1. 2001	Effective February 1.2002	Effective February 1, 2003
	Less than 2 Years 2 Years &Ove	Less than 2 Years 2Years & Over	Less than 2 Years 2 Years & O v	Less than 2 Years 5 r 2 Years & Ovei
Freeze Operator Packer Freeze Palletizer Freeze Service Attendant Freeze Utility Relief General Labour Groundskeeper Halloween Operator Packer Halloween Service Attendant Hayssen Operator Packer Jensen Operator Packer Jr. Clyboume Operator Packer Mezzanine Service Attendant Nut Inspector Oh Henry Service Attendant P.B. Pusher P.B.C. Operator Packer Raisin Washer/Sugaring Rose Forgrove Operator Rovema Service Attendant Sanitation Janitorial	15.56 15.85	16.01 16.30	16.44 16.73	16.94 17.23
-"™(con,L)	Effective February 1.2000		Effective February 1. 2001	Effective February 1, 2002		Effective Februarv 1.2003	
	Less titan 2 Years 2 Years &Ovee		Less than 2 Years 2 Years & 0 v e r	Less than 2 Years 2 Years &Over		Hess tar 2 Years 2 Years & Over	
Spare Tray Washer Utility Relief	15.56	15.85	16.01 16.30	16.44	16.73	16.94	17.23
RATE OF PAY Hiring Class	14.47		14.47	14.47		14.47	
MAINTENANCE							
RATE OF PAY Chief Stationary Engineer		23.82	24.27		24.70		25.20
RATE OF PAY Stationary Engineer - 2nd Class	21.27	21.82	21.72 22.27	22.15	22.70	22.65	23.20
RATE OF PAY Electrician General Maintenance Mechanic Instrumentation Control Machinist Stationary Engineer - 3rd Class Wrapping & Packaging Mechanic	20.83	21.38	21.28 21.83	21.71	22.26	22.21	22.76
RATE OF PAY	16.53	16.82	16.98 17.27	17.41	17.70	17.91	18.20
Apprentice
o
	Effective February 1. 2000	Effective February 1.2001	Effective February 1. 2002	Effective February 1. 2003
	Less than 2 Yean 2 Years & Ove	Less than 2 Year ■ 2 Years & Over	Less than 2 Years 2 Years & O v e r	^ess than 2 Years 2 Years & O v e r
Lubrication/Helper	16.53 16.82	16.98 17.27	17.41 17.70	17.91 18.20
Employees who do not have a recognized trade ticket will be paid $0.70 an hour less than the bid rate. Employees who have two (2) recognized trade tickets will be paid SO.20 an hour more than the bid rate.
General Increase:	Year 1 $0.45 Year 2 $0.45 Year 3 $0.43 Year 4 $0.50
Moulding Operator Adjustment
0-2 years	$0.00
2-5 years	$0.15
over 5 years	$0.20
Oh Henry Kitchen Cook Adjustment
over 2 years	$0.10
Material Handler D.C. Adjustment
over 2 years	$0.10
Chocolate Processing Operator Adjustment
over 2 years	$0.10
Bagger Operator Adjustment
0 2 years	$0.00
2 - 5 years	$0.15
over 5 years	$0.20
29.02
Employees hired at the hiring rate will attain the rate of the bid job to which they are assigned on completion of sixty (60) days of work.
29.03
a)	A leadhand appointed by the Company will receive a rate of fifty cents (50 cents) in excess of the highest bid job rate in the group of employees they are required to lead.
b)	Leadhands will have no authority to hire or discharge or discipline, and shalt not be used in the assessment of an employee’s performance for the purpose of discipline, promotion or an employee attaining seniority.
c)	Leadhands will be selected from those employees with seniority and will not be selected from the ranks of temporary or probationary employees.
29.04
An afternoon shift premium of forty-five cents (45 cents) per hour wilt be paid for all hours worked on shifts which commence from 1:00 p.m. to 9:00 p.m. A midnight shift premium of fifty cents (50 cents) per hour wilt be paid for all shifts which commence from 9:00 p.m. to 5:00 a.m.
29.05
a)	An employee who is temporarily transferred from a higher to a tower rated bid job for the convenience of the Company, and not as a result of the tack of work on their bid job, wilt be paid the higher rate for the duration of such temporary transfer.
b)	An employee who is temporarily transferred from a lower to a higher rated bid job will receive the higher
71
ARTICLE 30 - HEALTH AND WELFARE
30.01
The employee shall have Health and Welfare benefits as outlined in the “Employee Handbook” dated 2000.
30.02
Insurance benefits contained herein are within the control of third parties (i.c. the carriers of the said plans). Therefore, the Company shalt not be responsible for any decisions made by the said third parties with respect to the payment oi non-payment of benefits.
30.03
Severance Pay - In the event of the closure of all of the Company’s operation in Smiths Falls or the closure of a portion leading up to the total closure, resulting in a permanent lay-off, the Company agrees to pay all terminated employees a severance pay for those employees with more than five (5) years seniority, amounting to one (I) week’s regular wages for each year of service and one half (1/2) week's regular wages for each year of service for those employees with less than five (5) years seniority.
ARTICLE 31 - DURATION
This agreement, which supersedes all previous agreements, wilt remain in full force and effective from and including the
January, 2004. Notice by either party that it intends to terminate or seek revisions to this Agreement may only be given during a period of not more than ninety (90) calendar days and not less than sixty (60) calendar days preceding the 3 1!| of January, 2004. The parties will begin negotiations not less than sixty (60) calendar days preceding the 3 lsl of January, 2004.
Signed at Smiths Falls this 8"1 day of June, 2000.
For the Company	For the Union
Rene Albert Paul Cadeau Joanne McDonald Ralph March
Jack Davis Harry Ghadban Mona Pepper Susan Johnston Wm Glenn Rathwell Brent Whiten
73
LETTER OF INTENT #1
PAYMENT FOR TRAVEL TIME
Employees who are required to travel to attend meetings for work or for training purposes, will be reimbursed as follows:
One (It Day Assignments
All employees wilt be paid from the time they leave the Hershey Smiths Falls Plant until their return to the Hershey Smiths Falls Plant.
All hours beyond eight (8) wilt be paid at the applicable overtime rate. A one-half (l/2) hour unpaid lunch wilt be deducted from the total hours.
Overnight Assignments of Threef3f Nights or Fess Travel time which falls within an employee’s regularly scheduled shift, will be considered as working time and will be paid at straight time up to a maximum of eight (8) hours. Saturday and Sunday are treated the same as week days and will be paid at straight time up to a maximum of eight (8) hours.
Time spent in travel outside of regular hours will not be considered as working time and will not be paid.
Time spent working (as opposed to travelling) away from the Plant will be paid as per the Collective Agreement.
Overnight Assignments of More Than Three H') Nights Travel for periods of time in excess of three (3) nights will
74
be handled on a case by case basis.
Note: Modifications to all of the above wilt be made for employees working alternate shifts.
Both parties agree that the conditions of this Letter of Intent shalt remain in effect for the duration of the Collective Agreement.
Rene Albert Plant Manager
75
LETTER OF INTENT #2 LAY-OFF
This letter will confirm the Company’s intent to use Hershey employees on lay-off as contractor helpers, when possible, in order to provide as much work to employees on lay-off as possible.
Whenever this agreement is made, it must be a feasible type of work assignment and must be agreed by the contractor at the time the work is being performed.
Both parties agree that the conditions of this Letter of Intent shall remain in effect for the duration of the Collective Agreement.
Rene Albert Plant Manager
76
LETTER OF INTENT #3 HOURS OF WORK
This letter will confirm the Company’s intent to continue to have Monday through Friday as the normal work week. However, the Company will experience times when it is necessary to schedule Saturday, Sunday or both as regular working days to accommodate what would be considered unusual circumstances.
The Company will not unilaterally schedule Saturday, Sunday or both as regular working days, other than as set out above, without discussion and mutual agreement with the Union Committee.
Both parties agree that the conditions of this Letter of Intent shall remain in effect for the duration of the Collective Agreement.
Rene Albert Plant Manager
77
LETTER OF INTENT #4
LEAD TIME FOR LAY-OFFS
This letter will serve as the Company’s intent to maximize the lead time for all lay-offs which exceed five working days, except where it is beyond the reasonable control of the Company. To aid in this commitment, it is the Company’s intent to review manning requirements at each Labour-Management Meeting held monthly.
Both parties agree that the conditions of this Letter of Intent shall remain in effect for the duration of the Collective Agreement.
Rene Albert Plant Manage!
78
LETTER OF INTENT #5
MAINTENANCE DEPARTMENT SHIFT SELECTION
The Company agrees to continue the current practice of shift rotation within the maintenance department in a fair and equitable manner. However, in the case of an emergency (equipment breakdown, installation, vacation, sickness), the Company reserves the right to be able to assign the required skill to the necessary shift.
Both parties agree that the conditions of this Letter of Intent shall remain in effect for the duration of the Collective Agreement.
Rene Albert Plant Manager
79
LETTER OF INTENT #6
ALTERNATE WORK SCHEDULE ELEVEN & ONE-HALF (11 1/2) HOUR CHOCOLATE PROCESSING
Notwithstanding Article 19.02 in cases where the Company initiates and the Union agrees to implement alternate work schedules, the following schedule of benefits will apply for eleven and one-half (111/2) hour shifts.
Both parties agree that if for any reason the Alternate Work Week Schedule ceases, the Company will have the right to resume this Alternate Work Schedule, and the conditions outlined below in the Letter of Intent will not be altered. This right will stay in effect for twelve (12) months after the date of cessation of the Alternate Work Week Schedule.
Staffing
Notwithstanding Article 15, when converting from a five (5) day, three (3) shift schedule to an eleven and one half (11 1/2) hour two (2) shift schedule, the following conditions will apply:
i)	Current bid job holders would hold their current bid job on their current bid shift.
ii)	"C" shift bid employee/s) will automatically be assigned to the same bid job vacancy on “A” shift.
iii)	Any remaining vacancies will be posted as per Article 25.
When converting from a seven (7) day, two (2) shift schedule to a five (5) day, three (3) shift schedule, the following conditions will apply:
80
1.	Senior employees will retain their original bid job and
shift.
2.	All other bid employees will be declared redundant in
accordance with Article 15.01 (4)b.
3.	If the seven (7) day, two (2) shift operation is reactivated within a twelve (I 2) month period, the provisions of Article 15.02 will apply.
Alternate Work Week Addendum for Eleven and One Half
1111/21 Hour Shift Statutory Holidays
The eight (8) hour entitlement will remain regardless of shift
arrangement in that the total annualized work hours are the
same.
Floating Holidays
Employees will be compensated for an approved floating holiday for eleven and one half (111/2) hours at their base rate.
Vacations
Selection of weeks off will remain the same as current entitlement.
Vacation time is based on forty (40) hours/week for one (1) week.
Chocolate Processing. Replacement Staffing When Chocolate Processing is operating on an “Alternate Work Schedule” (111/2 hours) and leave is approved, such leave will be staffed in the following manner:
a)	The Company will seek volunteers, such as through the use of the Employee Profile List to staff leave for b) and
c)	below.
81
b)	When a replacement for a two (2) week (pay period) is
required, the Company will attempt to staff with qualified volunteers. Having exhausted the volunteer list, the Company will staff the assignment as required.
c)	A short week (2 days) will be staffed first through qualified volunteers. Should there be insufficient volunteers, qualified employee(s) will be assigned to the position for two (2) days at 111/2 hours and additional days at eight (8) hour assignments, with a day off mutually agreed to by the Company and employee(s). When worked, employee(s) will be paid at 111/2 hours at regular time and two (2) additional eight (8) hour shifts at regular time. Employee(s) who work thirty-nine (39) hours will be paid for forty (40) hours.
d)	A long week (5 days) will be staffed through overtime
posted in the plant and should insufficient employees volunteer, the leave may be denied.
e)	Notwithstanding Article 18, employee(s) will be required to submit their vacation request two (2) weeks in advance of the normal request date for the months of July-August-September and October-November-December. Advanced overtime posting for the full period in question will be developed and posted based upon requests. The resulting vacation schedule will be published as per Article 18.
Hours of Work
Saturday premium ($ 1,25/hour) and Sunday premium
($2.00/hour) will not be preserved for hours regularly scheduled.
82
All hours worked on Saturday and Sunday will be paid the applicable overtime rates provided the employee has fulfilled their regular hours commitments on the preceding Monday, Tuesday and Friday.
Overtime
Any hours over the regular scheduled work day will receive overtime premium.
Any hours worked over eighty (80) in a two week period for the eleven and one half (111/2) hour shift will be paid in the second week at current overtime rates.
Any day worked as a scheduled day off will receive overtime at one and one half (11/2) times the regular rate of pay, provided the regular scheduled work week for the employee is complete. Sunday overtime rate will be preserved.
The Union and the Company agree that scheduled hours worked on Saturday and Sunday are not overtime hours, and as a result the provisions of Article 20 do not apply.
All hours worked on the employee’s statutory holiday will receive twice the regular hourly rate.
Bereavement Leave
Provisions of Article 26 apply, except each day will be paid at the rate of eleven and one-half (111/2) hours for each day.
Rest Period
Two (2) rest periods of fifteen (15) minute duration will be provided in each half shift at times designated by the Company.
83
Sick Benefits
Entitlement will remain as per the current contract. No employee will lose more than twenty-four (24) hours during their first three (3) days of illness.
Shift Premium
A shift premium of one dollar ($1.00) per hour will be paid for each hour worked on the eleven and one half (I 11/2) hour shift alternate. This will replace the current differential.
All other contract requirements for entitlement will remain in effect.
Both parties agree that the conditions of this Letter of Intent shall remain in effect for the duration of the Collective Agreement.
Rene Albert Plant Manager
84
LETTER OF INTENT #7
ALTERNATE WORK SCHEDULE STATIONARY ENGINEERS
a)	Stationary Engineers will be scheduled for twelve (12) hour shifts and will work over a two (2) week pay period eighty (80) hours at regular straight time hourly rates in the Collective Agreement. Hours worked beyond eighty (80) in a pay period up to eighty-four (84) in a pay period will be paid at two (2) times the regular hourly rate.
b)	Notwithstanding Article 17.04 and Article 20.01 of the
Collective Agreement, overtime will be paid after twelve (12) hours in a day or after eighty (80) hours worked in a two (2) week pay period. Any day worked as a scheduled day off will be paid at the applicable overtime rate, provided the employee has worked their regular schedule in that pay period. For the purposes of Article 17.04, the clause will apply with twelve (12) hours to be substituted where eight (8) hours currently exists.
c)	It is agreed that Stationary Engineers working this
twelve (12) hour shift will be paid a shift premium of $1.00 per hour for all hours worked. No other shift or week-end premiums will be paid,
d)	For the purposes of the application of Article 23.02, Jury Duty, and Article 26, Bereavement Leave, engineers will be compensated based on twelve (12) hour
85
days provided the Jury Duty or Bereavement Leave occurs on days which the employee was otherwise scheduled to work. Furthermore, employees will be compensated for an approved floating holiday for twelve (12) hours at their base rate.
e)	For the purpose of calculating sick benefits, engineers
will receive compensation based on eighty hours over a two (2) week period, plus four (4) hours mandatory overtime at double time.
f)	For purposes of calculating vacation, one twelve (12)
hour shift will count as one and one-half (11/2) days vacation.
Both parties agree that the conditions of this Letter of Intent shall remain in effect for the duration of the Collective Agreement.
Rene Albert Plant Manager
86
LETTER OF INTENT #8
SPECIAL PACK OPERATION
A separate category of employees may be established from time to time to perform work that is not suited to the regular work force. The only provisions of the Collective Agreement that will apply to Special Pack Operation employees are those specified within this Letter of Intent or referred to within this Letter of Intent.
1. The following Articles within this Collective Agreement will apply to Special Pack employees:
Article 1 Article Article Article 4 Article 6 Article 7 Article 8 Article Article
27
31
Letter of Intent #11-
Recognition
Management Rights Responsibility No Strikes or Lockouts Grievance Procedure Discharge Cases Arbitration
Deduction of Union Dues Duration
Expedited Arbitration
2.	Representation - Special Pack employees will be represented by the Chief Steward or, in the Chief Steward’s absence, by the Plant President of the Union (Chairperson).
3.	Work presently performed by Plant bid employees shall not be transferred to the Special Pack Operation.
4.	Seniority
a)	Any employee hired as a new Special Pack employee 87
will be on probation until they have worked ninety (90) days within a twelve (12) month period. The discharge of an employee during this probation period will be at the sole discretion of the Company.
b)	Job assignments will be made by Management.
c)	Lay-off, recall and shift assignment will be in order of seniority within the Special Pack Operation.
5.	Special Pack Work - Jobs to be performed by Special
Pack employees will primarily consist of work that would otherwise be contracted out to co-packers. Such work is usually performed as additional manual steps taking place away from the production lines. Examples of such work include combination packs, display packs, tubs of product such as chips and seasonal/novelty items. in special circumstances, rework projects will be performed by Special Pack employees. The nature of work being assigned to Special Pack employees will be determined by mutual agreement between the Company and the Union Committee. Special Pack employees will be responsible for the operational cleaning of their own work area.
6.	Maintenance, support services and material supply for the Special Pack Operation will be provided by employees of regular bid job(s). (Note: If the Special Pack Operation is located in a separate facility, such as the bean building, Special Pack employees may be used to load and unload Special Pack materials.)
7.	Location of Special Pack Operation - The boundaries of the Special Pack Operation will be determined by
88
mutual agreement between the Company and the Union Committee.
8.	Hiring To Plant - When openings occur elsewhere in the Plant, Special Pack employees may register their interest with Employee Relations and may be considered for such employment at the sole discretion of the Company. When a Special Pack employee is thus hired into the Plant work force, they will become a probationary employee in accordance with Article 9.01 and no time worked in the Special Pack Operation will be credited toward completion of this probationary period. If the employee completes the probationary period, their seniority date will be as defined in Article 9.01. No time worked in Special Pack will be credited toward their seniority.
9.	Hours of Work
a)	The Company does not guarantee to provide work for daily or weekly hours or for any other hours.
b)	The days to be worked and the starting and ending times will be determined by the Company according to business requirements.
10.	Wages
a)	Hourly wages will be $8.25 per hour.
b)	Overtime will be paid at time and one-half for all hours worked over forty (40) hours in a week.
11.	Benefits - Will be provided as required by law.
89
Both parties agree that the conditions of this Letter of Intent shall remain in effect for the duration of the Collective Agreement.
Rene Albert Plant Manager
90
LETTER OF INTENT # 9
CASUAL WORK POOL
Employees who have been laid-off from the Plant and who have not been terminated under Article 9.04 (c) may be eligible for the assignment of casual work as members of the casual work pool, provided active members of the bargaining unit do not wish to work on Saturdays, Sundays or holidays.
The Company is not forfeiting its right under Article 20.04 when assigning work to employees from the casual work pool.
Assignments will be made on the basis of the most senior employee within the pool who is immediately qualified to perform the work.
It is the employee’s responsibility to advise the Employee Relations Department at the time they are laid-off that they are available to work and to provide a current phone number so they can be contacted.
Any employee within the casual work pool who is not available to work, refused to work or could not be contacted on more than two occasions will be removed from the casual pool and will no longer be considered for any casual work assignment. Any employee who agrees to work, but who does not report for work, will be removed from the casual work pool.
91
The following conditions will apply to employees who
accept the casual work provided under this Letter of Intent.
a)	Employees will receive only the straight time hourly wage as set out in Article 29 for work performed on a Saturday, Sunday or holiday. Overtime will be paid at the rate of time and one-half the employees regular hourly rate for all time worked in excess of eight (8) hours daily.
b)	Employees are not entitled to the payment of any pre-
miums under this Letter of Intent except those premiums outlined in Article 29.04.
c)	Any dispute that may arise with respect to the assign-
ment of employees under this Letter of Intent shall not result in the payment of money to an employee who is bypassed for the assignment. An employee that is able to demonstrate that they should have been assigned instead of another employee in the casual work pool is to be provided with the next opportunity to perform work under this Letter.
d)	The time worked under this Letter of Intent does not
interrupt the calculation of the continuous period of layoff under Article 9.04 (d) and coverage for benefits as outlined in the Group Benefits Booklet dated 2000 in section “Temporary Absence From Work”.
e)	Only the following provisions of the Collective Agreement apply to employees working under this
92
Letter: Articles 1; 2; 3; 4; 5; 6; 7; 8; 9; 16; 19.01; 19.04; 19.05; 19.10; 21.04; 23.03; 23.04; 29.01; 29.04; 31 and Letter of Intent #11.
Both parties agree that the conditions of this Letter of Intent shall remain in effect for the duration of the Collective Agreement.
Rene Albert Plant Manager
93
LETTER OF INTENT #10 WAGE ADJUSTMENTS
The adjustments, as per wage schedule/bid job list Article 29, will be paid to employees who have the requisite number of continuous years of experience in the bid job.
An employee who was affected by a redundancy and returns within the twelve (12) month period as per Article 15, will be paid the adjustment that they qualified for prior to being affected by redundancy.
An employee who is affected by lay-off, illness or other absences, will be paid the adjustment they qualified for prior to the lay-off, illness, or other absence as long as they have not been absent from their bid job for greater than a two (2) year period.
Both parties agree that the conditions of this Letter of Intent shall remain in effect for the duration of the Collective Agreement.
94
Rene Albert Plant Manager
LETTER OF INTENT #11
EXPEDITED ARBITRATION PROCESS
Notwithstanding Article 8.06, grievances will be heard in the “formal” arbitration process as defined in Article 6, unless the parties mutually agree in writing to refer a grievance to expedited arbitration. Such written request from either party shall be made within thirty (30) days of receipt of the Company answer at Step two (2) of the grievance procedure, as indicated in Article 6.07 of the Collective Agreement.
Grievances(s) shall be assigned within sixty (60) days of referral, in order of chronological sequence in which they were forwarded to arbitration, “first in, first out” (FIFO), to a sole arbitrator, rotating equally, through a panel of arbitrators. The panel will consist of four (4) arbitrators, mutually agreed to by the parties. Should either party wish to remove one of the arbitrators from the panel, they may do so in writing, nominating their suggested replacement. The new (replacement) arbitrator, must be mutually agreed to as above.
Either party retains the right to use lawyers in the presenting and arguing of any case(s) in the expedited arbitration process. The Company shall be represented by one (l) member of management and the Union shall be represented by one (1) Union staff representative, or one officer/steward of the Union local. Normally, the parties may be allowed one (1) advisor and one (1) witness on behalf of either party, however, in exceptional circumstances, for clarification
95
purposes there may be a maximum of two (2) witnesses on behalf of either party.
Unless otherwise agreed to, the parties may set one (1) day per month to conduct expedited hearings,
Unless otherwise agreed by both parties, no written submission, precedent or authority shall be delivered to the arbitrator, at any time. However, the parties may rely on past practice between the parties.
Save and except grievances scheduled for the informal arbitration process, an arbitrator in the expedited arbitration process shall have the jurisdiction and power to:
a)	combine any related grievances for hearing
b)	issue a decision based solely upon representations made by the parties
c)	issue a decision addressing the matter without regard to
technical or procedural objection
d)	wherever possible the arbitrator will issue an oral deci-
sion at the conclusion of a hearing. However, the final written decision shall be forwarded to the parties, no later than thirty (30) calendar days, along with a brief rationale for each grievance decision heard
e)	the arbitrator shall not have the jurisdiction to amend
and/or add to any provisions of the Collective Agreement or to substitute any new provisions in lieu thereof and will not provide any decision inconsistent with the terms of the Collective Agreement,
The decision of the arbitrator shall be final and binding upon the parties to the arbitration and the employee(s). No deci-
96
sion rendered by an arbitrator pursuant to the expedited process shall constitute a precedent, or be referred to in subsequent arbitration(s) and/or formal arbitration(s) as defined in Article 6, unless both parties agree.
Each of the parties will jointly bear the expense of the arbitrator.
Either party may withdraw from this Letter of Intent through a minimum two (2) week written notice to the other party.
Rene Albert Plant Manager
97
LETTER OF INTENT #12
OTHER ALTERNATE WORK SCHEDULES
The parties agree that it is mutually beneficial to the Company and its employees to establish alternate work schedules. Business conditions are constantly changing and the need for flexibility in the areas of scheduling and changeovers is essential to the Company in order to remain competitive. In addition, the work environment must become more flexible in order to accommodate employees’ individual needs.
It is understood between the parties that alternate work schedules wilt only be implemented where/when employees volunteer to participate.
Newly developed alternate work schedules, terms and conditions and selection methods will be mutually agreed upon by the Company and the Union Committee and wilt be written as a letter of intent and form part of the Collective Agreement.
Both parties agree that the conditions of this Letter of Intent shalt remain in effect for the duration of the Collective Agreement.
Rene Albert Plant Managei
98
LETTER OF INTENT #13
MAINTENANCE APPRENTICES
Should the Company determine the requirement for apprentice^) the Company will seek the Union Committee’s assistance in the development of a specific Apprentice Program.
Both parties agree that the conditions of this Letter of Intent shall remain in effect for the duration of the Collective Agreement.
Rene Albert Plant Manager
99
LETTER OF INTENT #14
MAINTENANCE RATES OF PAY
Notwithstanding present file documentation for current maintenance employees, as of the signing of the Collective Agreement, the Company is prepared to retain the current Maintenance employees at their present pay rate schedule. This does not affect the Company’s ability to determine Maintenance employees qualifications.
Both parties agree that the conditions of this Letter of Intent shall remain in effect for the duration of the Collective Agreement.
Rene Albert Plant Managei
100
LETTER OF INTENT #15
CONTINENTAL WORK WEEK
The parties mutually agree that for our purposes a Continental Work Week schedule will be defined as a continuous seven (7) day operation.
The Company will not unilaterally introduce a Continental Work Week without discussion and mutual agreement with the Union.
Both parties agree that the conditions of this Letter of Intent shall remain in effect for the duration of the Collective Agreement.
Rene Albert Plant Manager
101
LETTER OF INTENT #16
TRANSITION LANGUAGE - ARTICLES 10 &13
Re: Implementation of Article 10 - (Lay-ofPPlant Staffing) &Article 13 - (Recall/Plant Staffing)
The parties agree to a ‘transition period’ in order to thoroughly implement the staffing modifications to the above noted Articles of the Collective Agreement. The current staffing process shall continue until implementation of Articles 10 and 13 by May I”, 2000 and remain in effect until May 18'\ 2001 as a trial period. The Company and the Union are committed to continually resolving any unforeseen issues, to ensure that the staffing process protects employees on their bid job, bid shift, alternate shift preference, alternate job preference and lay-off procedures in accordance with their seniority, qualifications and the provisions of Articles 10 and 13.
The Union, through a vote of their membership where all employees are given ample opportunity to vote, may decide to terminate this trial period effective May I 8'\ 2001 by giving the Company a minimum of two (2) weeks written notice prior to May 17'\ 2001 and the provisions of Articles 10 and 13 of the former Collective Agreement with the expiration date of January 3 C, 2000 shall continue for the duration of the Collective Agreement. Should the Union not give the Company the above noted two (2) weeks notice, the staffing process as outlined in Articles 10 and 13, with modifications, if any, mutually agreed to by the parties during the trial, will be fully incorporated into the current Collective Agreement.
102
Both parties agree that the conditions of this Letter of Intent shall remain in effect for the duration of the Collective Agreement.
Rene Albert Plant Manager
103
LETTER OF INTENT #17
RECALL FOR ONE DAY VACATION/ ABSENTEEISM/FLOATER RELIEF
Employees interested in being recalled for one (I) day in order to provide vacation/absenteeism and/or floater relief must register their availability with Employee Relations during the first full week of September yearly.
Should the need for one (1) day recall occur, the Company may attempt to contact the senior employee by phone who is fully and immediately qualified. If the senior employee cannot be reached the next senior employee who is fully and immediately qualified will be contacted, and so on until the list is exhausted.
Any employee who registered for one (1) day recall and who is not available to work, refuses to work or does not report to work will be removed from the list and no longer be considered for these assignments until the next sign up period.
The following conditions will apply to employees who registered for one (1) day recall under this Letter of Intent:
a)	Employees are not entitled to the payment of any premiums under this Letter of Intent except those premiums outlined in Articles 20.01 & 29.04.
b)	Any dispute that may arise with respect to the assign-
ment of employees under this Letter of Intent shall not result in the payment of money to an employee who is bypassed for the assignment. An employee who is able
104
to demonstrate that they should have been assigned instead of another employee who registered for one (1) day recall is to be provided with the next opportunity to perform work under this Letter.
c)	Any such time worked under this Letter of Intent does
not interrupt the calculation of the continuous period of lay-off under Article 9.04 (d) and coverage for benefits as outlined in the Group Benefits booklet (effective February 4lh, 1997 and subsequent editions) in section Temporary Absence from Work.
d)	Only the following provisions of the Collective Agreement apply to employees working under this Letter: Articles I; 2; 3; 4; 5; 6; 7; 8; 9; 12; 14; 16; 19.01; 19.04; 19.05; 19.10; 20.01; 21.04; 23.03; 23.04; 29.01; 29.04; 29,05; 31 and Letter of Intent #11.
e)	Employees will only be eligible to work one (I) day
each calendar week.
Either party may withdraw from this Letter of Intent through a minimum two (2) week written notice to the other party.
105
Rene Albert Plant Manager
LETTER OF INTENT # 18 PENSION
If, during the term of this Letter of Understanding, Hershey Canada should voluntarily terminate or wind-up the pension plan covering amongst others, members of the bargaining unit, other than a termination or wind-up required by law, Hershey Canada will institute a replacement retirement vehicle for the benefit of members of the bargaining unit at a benefit level not less than as provided for in the present plan as of January 31**, 2000 including negotiated changes.
This Letter of Understanding will expire on January 30'\ 2004.
Rene Albert Plant Manager
106
LETTER OF INTENT #19
LEADHANDS
Leadhands identified in section A of the Letter of Understanding dated June 20'\ 1997 and recently appointed leadhands prior to February 1st, 2000, will have thirty (30) calendar days to decide if they want to remain in their lead-hand role or return to their bid job.
Leadhands appointed subsequent to February U, 2000 will have thirty (30) calendar days from the date of assignment to decide if they want to remain in their current assignment or return to their bid job.
Leadhands will be subject to the provisions of Articles 10 and 13. Should the Company and/or employee terminate the employee’s leadhand assignment the provisions of Article 15 will apply.
Maintenance leadhands removed from their leadhand position will return to their bid job.
Both parties agree that the conditions of this Letter of Intent shall remain in effect for the duration of the Collective Agreement.
Rene Albert Plant Manager
107
LETTER OF INTENT #20
MANDATORY OVERTIME
Notwithstanding Article 20.04 the parties are prepared to
implement the staffing of mandatory overtime on a rotational basis with the following conditions:
a)	Normally employee(s) will not be assigned to work mandatory overtime when they have volunteered to work on a weekend, unless they are the only remaining qualified employee(s).
b)	In the event that employee(s) volunteer to work weekend overtime and are subsequently identified as the only remaining, available, qualified employee(s) to work mandatory overtime, they will be assigned to work the mandatory overtime assignment(s) and the next (senior/qualified) employee(s) who signed the voluntary overtime list(s), will assume the original volunteer overtime assignment(s).
c)	The Company will attempt to assign employee(s) to
mandatory overtime on their own bid shift, when possible and normally an employee(s) will not be assigned to work successive, back to back shifts, unless they are the only remaining qualified employee.
d)	In order to avoid the potential of employee(s) being forced to work consecutive turns on mandatory overtime and after employee(s) concerned have met their mandatory overtime requirement by actually working their previous turn, unless they are the only qualified employee(s) remaining, the next senior/qualified employee(s) will be required to work. Each following
108
weekend requiring mandatory overtime the next senior/qualified employee(s) shall be required to work and so on.
e)	Other qualified employee(s) may volunteer to switch
with employee(s) required to work mandatory overtime providing the arrangements are approved by the Company. These arrangements will only be considered finalized when employee(s) who have been assigned mandatory overtime have returned written confirmation (“Mandatory Overtime Notice”) to the supervisor no later than two (2) hours prior to the end of their last scheduled shift prior to the mandatory overtime.
f)	Should employee(s) not actually work the mandatory
overtime when they are assigned, they shall be required to work the next mandatory overtime weekend in which they are available.
g)	Should employee(s) on mandatory overtime report for
work and a situation arises in which employee(s) on the line/process concerned are not required through no fault of their own, such as machine breakdown/failure, power outage and provided employees are given the option to leave, mandatoried employee(s) will be given first opportunity and will be considered to have met their commitment to work mandatory overtime.
h)	Newly qualified employee(s) will assume their position for mandatory overtime purposes through their respective seniority.
i)	The employee profile list will be used to determine
employee qualifications for purposes of mandatory overtime assignments.
109
j)	Should a situation arise which was not contemplated, the Company and the Union Committee agree to meet with the purpose to finding a common resolution.
Should a situation arise which the parties are unable to resolve immediately, the provisions of Article 20.04 will be in full force and effect and this Letter of Intent will be suspended until a common resolution is agreed to.
Either party may withdraw from this Letter of Intent through a minimum two (2) week written notice to the other party.
Rene Albert Plant Manager
110
LETTER OF INTENT # 21 SANITATION OVERTIME
The Company and Union Committee will work to develop a methodology to ensure proper distribution of overtime opportunities regarding Sanitation Line Cleaner and Janitorial work by no later than March 27'\ 2000. Until such time the current practice will be maintained.
Both parties agree that the conditions of this Letter of Intent shall remain in effect for the duration of the Collective Agreement.
Rene Albert Plant Manager
111
LETTER OF INTENT #22
AMENDMENTS TO THE COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT RE: DEPARTMENT AND CLASSIFICATION
The parties agree that should Articles 10 and 13 revert back to the previous language in the Collective Agreement which expired January 31s', 2000, the following Articles 10,1 1,13, 16,19.09, 25 and 29, will be amended to reflect this change. These amendments are restricted only to department and/or classification.
Article 11 - Lay-offs of Five (5) Working Days or Less, of the former Collective Agreement which expired January 3 I”, 2000 will be reinstated and renumbered.
Both parties agree that the conditions of this Letter of Intent shall remain in effect for the duration of the Collective Agreement.
Rene Albert Plant Manager
112