COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
SWWEST FOOD PRODUCTS BMC., hereinafter called the “Company”
AND
international Union, hereinafter referred to as the “Union”
OCTOBER 1,1996 TO SEPTEMBER 30, 2001
••• ..	i-.:: ——r:—................
00599 (05)
^
MIDWEST FOOD PRODUCTS INC.
INDEX
Allowance, Rubber Boot Allowance, Safety Shoe Allowance, Tool Apprenticeship Program Arbitration
Banked Overtime for Medical Appointments Banked Overtime for Wailing Period Banking of Overtime Bargaining Agency
Benelil Premiums Paid when lll/lnjureti Benelil Premiums Paid when on Layoff Benefit Premiums Paid when on Leave Benefits
Bereavement Leave Bulletin Board Bumping Rights Call-back to Work Premium Call-in for Emergency Categories
Change of Job Duties Classifications
Classifications and Fiates of Pay
Compressed Work Week - Maintenance
Conseculive Days - Seven
Continuous Shift Operations
Contracting Out
Contracting Oul Consultation
Deduction of Union Dues
Definilion of Training
Dental Plan
Disability Leave
Disability. Retraining
Discharge/Suspensions
Displacing Junior Employees
Duration
Earnings - Definilion , ,,	,	: ’
Easier Sunday Worked,	'	- i
Education leave hlebilh & Safety Committee' Educational Leave
Emergency Call-in :	.
SECTION
18.3
18.3 20.2 Letter 25
12.1(d)
12.1(b)
6.17
2.1
11.2
11.3
11.3 11
21.1 20.1 13.7 6.13 6.10 App "A” 14.10 App "A”
15
B-1.01
5.8
5.3 4.5 teller 4.2
14.6 11.1 17.4 16.1 24
13.6 31 [0.4
PAGE
43
43
46
71 49 30 29 16
8
27
28 28 24
47 46 33 14 12 59 39 59 39 67 12 11 10
72 9
37
24
41 39
48 32 58 22 12
42 42 12 1.
MIDWEST FOOD PRODUCTS INC,
INDEX
Exchange of Shifts Extended Health Care Gainsharing Program General
General Purpose Glasses, Safely Granting Time Off Grievance and Arbitration Health SSafely
Health &Safely Education Time Oil
Health & Welfare
Holidays
Holidays - Illness or Injury Holidays - Vacation Hourly Rates of Pay Hours ot Work
Illness or Injury during Vacation
Illness or Injury on Paid Holidays
Injury cm the Job
Irrigation Personnel
Job Duties Changed
Job Posting
Jury Duly Leave
Layofl Order
Layoff . Vacation Pay
Leave of Absence
Leave, Bereavement
Leave, Disability
Leave, Educational
Leave, Jury Duly
Leave, Maternity
Leave, Parental
Leave, Personal
Leave, Union Business
Leave, Union Position
Leave, Witness
Length of Agreement
Licence Renewal
Lite Insurance
List ol Employees’ Seniority
2.
PAGEION
6.14
11.1
Letter
20
18.3(c)
Letter
25 18 18.2 11
9
9.4
9.5
App "A”
6
10.10
9.4 18.1 Letter 14.10 14 21.2
13.5
10.7 17 21.1
17.4
17.7
21.2
17.2
17.2
17.3
17.6 19.1(e) 21.2 31
26 11.1
13.3
14
24
73
46 8
43
74 49 42 42 24 18 20 20 59 11 24 19 42 71
39 33
47 32 24
40 47
41
42 47 40 40 40 42 45 47 58 52 24 31
MIDWEST FOOD PRODUCTS INC.
INDEX
Maintenance Classifications Maintenance Compressed Work Week Maintenance Employees Training Management Clause Maternity Leave Meal Period
Medical Appointments. Banked Overtime Medical Certificate Minimum Reporting Pay Negotiations Committee New Category of Operators New Classification Rate of Pay Night Premium
No Pyramid ng of Overtime/Premiums
No Strike • No Lockout
Notice of Layoff/Recall
Operators Category
Outside Bargaining Unit
Overtime
Overtime Banking
Overtime Rates
Overtime Request Sheet Posted Packaging Inspection Premium Paid Leaves Parental Leave Parking
Pay for Reporting Pay Rates Payment of Wages Pension Plan Personal Leave Physical Disability Physical Disability Leave Plant Floor Communication Plug-in Parking
Position Outside Bargaining Unit Posting Overtime Request Sheet Posting Training/Cross-Training Posting Vacancies Posting Work schedules
SECTION App “A B-1,01
27.1 3
17.2
6.15 12.1(d) 12.1(a)
6.9
19.1(d)
Letter
15.2
7
6.12
22
13.11
Letter
13.2
6.16 6.17 6.1 6.16
8 21
17.2
20.3
6.9
App "A"
15.4 28
17.3 16
17.4 Letter 20.3 13.2 6.16 14.6 14.1
6.10
PAGE
63
67
53
9
40
14
30 28 12 44 78
39
17 3
48
33
78
31 14 16 11 14
18 47
40 46 12 59
39
54
40 39
41 70 46 31 14 37 33 12 3.
MIDWEST FOOD PRODUCTS INC.
INDEX
Powerhouse Engineers Premium Pay Premium, Night
Premium, Packaging Inspection Premium. Powerhouse Engineers Premium, RecaS lo Work Premium, Saturday Work Premium, Sunday Work Premium, Zero Room Prescription Safety Glasses Probationary Period Protective Devices Pyramiding of Overtime/Premiums Rates of Pay
Rates of Pay for New Classifications Recall from Layoff Recall to Work Recognition
Registered Retirement Savings Plan
Reimbursement of Licence Costs
Reporting Pay Minimum
Representation
Representative’s Visits
Reprimands/Suspensions
Rest Periods
Rubber Boot Allowance
Safety And Health
Safety Glasses
Safety Show Allowance
Saturday/Sunday Hours
Saturday Work
Scalehouse Personnel
Schedules Posted
Scheduling Vacation
Scope of Agreement
Seniority
Seniority Cancelled
Seniority List
Service. Definition
Seventh Consecutive Day Worked
4.
BECKON
15.3 8
15.3
6.13
6.4
6.5
8
18.3(c)
13.1 183 6.12 App "A
15.2 13,0
6.13 2
28.3 26
6.9 19
19.4 24 6.11 183(b)
18
183(C)
18.3(b)
6.6
6.4 Letter
6.10 10.6 23 13
13.4 13.3
10.5 6.8
39
17
18 39 14 11 12 18
43 30
42
13 59 39 30
14 8
55
52
12
44 46 48 13
43
42
43 43 12 11 77 12 23 48
30 32
31 22 12
MIDWEST FOOD PRODUCTS INC.
INDEX
Severance Pav Shift Exchange Shop Floor Concerns Sick Leave Strike/Lockout Sunday Woik Supervisors Work
Suspension/Reprimands Technological Change Temporary Jobs
Temporary Transfers/Assignments
Term Jobs
Time Off Granted
Time Olf in Lieu of Overtime Pay
Time Olf for Health & Safety Education
Time Oil for Negoliations Committee
Time Off lor Union Business
Tool Allowance
Trades Training
Training
Training whan Mandatory
Training Programs
Training. Trades
Transfer Outside Bargaining Unit
Transfer/Assignments Temporary
Union Business Leave
Union Committee
Union Dues Deduction
Union Position Leave
Union Representative's Visits
Union Security
Vacancies Posted
Vacation
Vacation ■ Illness or Injury VacalionScheduling Vacation on Paid Holidays Vacation Pay when Laid Oft Vacation Year Wage Rates Wage Referral
SECTION
30
6.14
Letter
12
22
6.5 6.1 24 29
14.5
14.8
14.5 teller 6.17 18.2 19.1(d) 19.1(e)
20.2
27
14.6
14.9 Letter 27
13.2 14.8
17.6 19.1(d)
4.2
19.1(e)
19.4
14.1 10
10.10
10.6 9.5 10.7
10.1 App "A 15.1
PAGE
57
70
28
48
12
10
48
55
36
38
36 74 16
42 44
43 46 53
37
38 70 53 31
38 42
44 9
45
46 9
33
20
24
23 20
24 20 59
39 5.
MIDWEST FOOD PRODUCTS INC.
INDEX
	SECTION	PAGE
Warning Slips	24	48
Watch Personnel	Letter	78
Witness Leave	21.2	47
Work Schedules Posted	6.10	12
Work of Supervisors	5	12
Work Unit Coordinator Positions	Letter	76
Work Unit Coordinator Position Rates	Letter	79
Work Week- Plant	6.1	11
Work Week ■ Production	6.3	11
Zero Room Premium	a	18
AGREEMENT
THIS AGREEMENT is made and entered into this 12th day of December 1996. by and between Carnation Foods, Limited, hereinafter called the ''Company", and United Food and Commercial Workers International Union Local 798, affiliated with the AFL-CIO and the Canadian Laboui Congress, hereinafter called the “Union”.
PREAMBLE
Recognizing that the welfare of the Company and that of its employees depends upon the welfare of the business as a whole, and recognizing further that a relationship of goodwill and mutual respect between the Company and employees can contribute greatly to the maintenance and increase of that welfare, the parties to this contract join together in the following Agreement:
DEFINITION
The use of the masculine gender in the Agreement shall be deemed to include the feminine, as the sense of the clause dictates.
7
SECTION
General Purpose
1.1	The purpose of this Agreement is to maintain a
harmonious relationship between the Company and its employees; to define more clearly hours of work, wages, and conditions of employment; to provide an amicable method of settling differences or grievances which may from time to time arise; to promote mutual interests of the Company and its employees; and to provide for the operation of the Company’s plant at Carberry, Manitoba under methods which will serve the interests of producers and consumers as well as those of the Company and its employees.
1.2	Since maintenance of a good standard of wages and
working conditions depends upon sound and efficient operation of the business, the Union agrees to cooperate with the Company at all times:
(a)	to maintain and improve quality of products;
(b)	to avoid waste of products, materials, or time;
(c)	to assist in keeping the Company property clean and tidy;
(d)	to conserve and protect machinery and equipment.
1.3	It is recognized by this Agreement to be the responsibility of the Company and its employees to cooperate fully, individually and collectively, for the promotion of the aforesaid conditions.
SECTION
Recognition
2.1	The Union shall be the sole and exclusive bargaining agency for all production and maintenance employees of the Company at Carberry, Manitoba, excluding office staff, plant nurse, quality control supervisors, field department supervisors, employees hired just for seasonal work, such as preparing seed, planting, cultivating and harvesting of potatoes, and those excluded by the Act.
8.
SECTION 3 Management Clause
3.1	The Management of the plant and the direction of the working force, including the right to hire, suspend, transfer, discharge employees for violation of reasonable Company rules or other Just causes, and to lay off employees because of lack of work or for othei legitimate reasons is vested exclusively in the Company. provided, however, that the Company shall not discriminate against any employees or applicant for employment because of membership in or lawful activity on behalf of the Union. This provision shall not be construed to limit management in any way in the exercise of their regular and customary functions and this Section shall be applied in accordance with the other terms and conditions as provided by this Agreement.
3.2	In administering this Agreement, the Company shall act reasonably, fairly, in good faith and in a mannei consistent with the Agreement as a whole.
SECTION Union Security
4.1	It shall be a condition of employment for all present employees to become members of the Union within thirty (30) days from date of signing this Agreement, and for new employees to become members of the Union within thirty (30) days from date of hiring oi signing of this agreement, whichever is the later.
4.2	The Company agrees to deduct from the wages of each employee, such Union dues, initiation fees and assessments as arc authorized by regular and propel vote of the membership of the Union. The Company further agrees to deduct the Union dues automatical]) from the wages of new or rehired employees first
9.
pay. Monies deducted during any month shall be forwarded by the Company to the Secretary-Treasurei of the Union within seven (7) calendar days following the end of the month and shall be accompanied by a monthly written statement, in duplicate, of the names and social insurance numbers of the employees for whom deductions were made and the amount of each deduction. The Company shall also provide the Union, when remitting the monthly cheque, with the names of employees and name changes of employees.
Each year the Company shall calculate the amount of Union dues deducted from the employee’s pay and shall indicate same on the T-4 slip of each employee by no later than February 28th.
4.3	The Union shall advise the Company, in writing, of the amount of monthly dues authorized by the employees, Union members, in keeping with the Constitution and By-Laws of the Union.
4.4	The Company will have new employees sign the
necessary Union membership application, and membership in the Union shall be granted within the above (30) day period. However, all employees will be covered by the Collective Agreement beginning the first day of work. except as specifically indicated elsewhere in this Agreement.
4.5	The Company will continue its’ practice with respect to contracting out, however, prior to such contracting out, the Company will notify the Union by posting on the bulletin board that contractors will be on site except in cases of emergency.
SECTION 5 Work of Supervisors
5.1	Employees excluded from the bargaining unit are not to be assigned regular jobs within the bargaining unit
10.
except in cases of emergency or for training purposes.
SECTION_6
Hours of ‘Work and Overtime
6.1	An average of thirty seven and one third hours (37-1/3) shall constitute a normal work week foi employees who are not on layoff. The term work week shall not be considered as a guarantee on the part of the Company, but is (he amount the Company will endeavour to provide to employees.
Time and one-half (1 1/2) of an employees’s straight time hourly rate of pay shall be paid for all hours worked over eight (8) hours daily or folly (40) hours weekly, whichever is the greater, but not both. The plant’s work week will be Monday through Sunday.
6.2	Any employees who work on seed preparation,
planting, cultivating, harvesting or irrigation are excluded from any overtime provision and night premium during any period of time that they arc assigned and perform this work.
6.3	It is expected that production shall be scheduled on a Monday through Friday work week, with the exception that continuous shift operations will be on a Monday through Sunday work week.
When production is expected to operate on a continuous shift basis, or when certain functions can effectively work on a different schedule, the Company may assign work to any affected employees in accordance with Appendix B.
No production employee will be compelled to work on Christmas Day and New Year’s Day.
6.4	A premium of time and one-half (1-1/2) of an employee’s straight lime hourly rate shall be paid foi Saturday hours worked. Weekend premium of time and one-half (1 -1/2) of an employee’s straight time
11.
hourly rate will not be paid for any hours worked on a Saturday when Saturday is scheduled as a regular day of work when a continuous shift (7 days per week) is in effect.
6.5	A premium of time and one-half (1-1/2) of an employee’s straight time hourly rate shall be paid foi Sunday hours worked. Weekend premium of time and one-half (1-1/2) of an employee’s straight time hourly rate will not be paid for any hours worked on a Sunday when Sunday is .scheduled as a regular day of work when a continuous shift (7 days per week) is in effect.
Notwithstanding the above. where the factory is in production on Easter Sunday, those employees who work on Easter Sunday shall receive time and one half (1*1/2) for all hours so worked.
6.6	Saturday hours shall be from J 2:0 J a.m. Saturday until Midnight Saturday. Sunday hours shall be from 12:01 a.m. Sunday until Midnight Sunday.
6.7	The above work week is not to be considered as a guarantee on the part of the Company as to the number of hours an employee will work each week.
6.8	Any employee who works seven (7) consecutive days in any one work week shall be paid double time (2x) for all hours worked on the seventh (7th) consecutive day. Overtime of less than four (4) hours before oi after a shift shall not be considered as a consecutive day, however, employees called in as per Article 6. 13 shall have that shift counted as a consecutive day.
6.9	An employee reporting for work at the direction of the Company shall be offered a minimum of four (4) hours of work. If the work is not provided, then the employee will be paid four (4) hours straight time.
6.10	Employee work schedules shall be posted designating an employee’s scheduled time, off work. Any
19
employee who is assigned to work on a scheduled day off shall receive one and one-half (1-1/2) times his straight time hourly rate for the hours worked, provided that the employee fully complete his scheduled hours that same week. Absence due to disability, certified by a medical doctor, shall be considered as time worked. An employee shall be allowed to work the balance of his weekly schedule if he so desires. The Company will endeavor to maintain the posted schedule, and an employee shalt only be reassigned or rescheduled due to an unforeseen circumstance or emergency. Nothing in this paragraph shall be applied to avoid the payment of overtime or premium pay as outlined anywhere else in this Agreement. Wherever reasonably possible, changes shall not be made to the posted schedule later than Thursday noon for the following week.
Notwithstanding paragraph one above, no employee who has been called in for an emergency to work outside of their regularly scheduled hours will be compelled to work beyond twelve (12) hours (or less if approved by the Supervisor) in the day. Such employee, wilt however, be paid overtime for all time worked outside his/her regularly scheduled hours.
6.1	1 All employees shall have a fifteen (IS) minute rest period at approximately the end of each two (2) hours of continuous work. Subject only to the needs of the business, rest periods shall be uninterrupted. Should an employee's rest period be interrupted by the management. the employee will be allowed to start his or her rest period after the interruption.
6.12	There shall be no pyramiding of overtime and premium pay for such days as holidays, Saturdays, Sundays, a seventh (7th) consecutive day worked in any one work week, or for work on scheduled days off. In the event that either overtime or the premium
13.
pay provisions could be applied to the same hours worked, only the greater shall apply. This clause is not intended to exclude premium payment for hours of work in accordance with Sections 7 and 8 but rather, to ensure no compounding of those premiums during overtime hours.
6.13	Any employees who are recalled to work after completing their shift for the day and having left the plant shall be paid time and one-half (1-1/2) for the actual hours worked or four (4) hours at straight time pay, whichever is the greater.
6.14	Employees may make friendly agreements to exchange shifts one with the other subject to approval from supervisors in charge of the shifts. The request must be presented in writing. In no instance will an employee be: permitted to work more than sixteen (16) consecutive hours under this agreement nor will such arrangement result in the payment of overtime.
6.15	All employers will receive a twenty (20) minute meal period with pay.
6.16	a) Employees are expected to work a reasonable
amount of overtime.
b)	An employees is deemed to be qualified to work in a particular position if they are so fisted as trained in the Employee Trainers manual, which will be updated (within one week) as training is completed, and made accessible to all employees in a common area. Discrepancies to the Employee Trainers Manual will be corrected immediately and retroactively.
c)	In situations where overtime is required in the form of an extension of the regular shift, first opportunity to work the overtime will be provided to employees who normally perform the work where the overtime is required and provided
14.
further that the employee is actually at work. Thereafter, the overtime will be offered in descending order of seniority to qualified employees who are present when the overtime is required.
d)	When overtime is scheduled in the form of an additional shift (Saturday or Sunday) foi employees in Maintenance Classifications, Group J, ] A and II, the same procedure as defined in Section (c) above shall apply.
e)	When overtime is scheduled in the form of an additional shift (Saturday or Sunday) for Group III jobs, the senior qualified employee to perform the work will be selected.
f)	Notwithstanding (e) above, overtime scheduled in the form of an additional shift, (Saturday or Sunday) for employees working in the Sanitation or Helpers in Maintenance Departments shall be posted on the bulletin board. Volunteers must sign the overtime sheet not later than 8:00 a.m. Thursday in order to be considered for the upcoming shift. The senior classified employee(s) qualified to perform the work will be selected foi the overtime.
g)	Under no circumstances is an employee able to accept any overtime assignments in the departments other than his/her own when the employee is required to work overtime in their
home department.
h)	When a sufficient number of volunteers cannot be found to perform the work, such overtime shall become mandatory for the junior employee qualified to perform the work.
i)	Employees are not permitted to work seven (7) consecutive days within a work week when other qualified employees are available and qualified to
15.
perform -the work and/or without the exclusive permission of the-Company.
Notwithstanding any of the above, nothing contained in Section (a) through (i) precludes the Company’s right to appoint other qualified employees in order to avoid premium payments.
The Company shall post a sheet for employees who wish to work overtime, to sign. Employees are to indicate then willingness to work in their own department and/or bargaining unit wide. Employees may sign or remove their name any time.
6.17	Overtime Banking
In addition to the above, the following conditions and
procedures shall govern the “banking” of overtime.
1.	That the employee advises their supervisor that they wish to “bank” their overtime at the time of overtime assignment and that such election is irrevocable. The time eligible for banking shall be the actual work hours in excess of those representing, a “full” normal work week (40 hours except in the case of compressed work week). Authorized leaves including those for illness or injury shall be regarded as hours actually worked for this purpose. The employee must bank all (both straight and premium payment portions) overtime earned on a particular shift with the additional condition that overtime on a given shift must exceed one (1) hour to be eligible for banking.
2.	“Banked” overtime may be scheduled as time off in accordance with the following provisions:
a)	That one (I) week notice be given in advance of taking time-off in lieu of overtime payment and that the scheduling of time-off be approved by the Company. The Company may at its discretion waive the one (I) week notice
16.
requirement if no repiacement is required for the employee.
b)	That (ime-off in lieu of overtime may only be taken in full-work week periods unless replacement is not required in the opinion of the employee’s supervisor or other Compan) management.
c)	That the scheduling of lime-off in lieu will not give rise to overtime expense for replacement.
d)	Other employees scheduled vacation time will be given priority over banked overtime.
e)	Employees may utilize banked overtime for any time for which au employee is receiving no regular pay, provided no overtime payment results.
3.	That time-off in lieu of overtime is not considered work time for purposes of seniority retention. benefit extension, and other such provisions of the Collective Agreement.
4.	Unused “banked” overtime will be paid to the employee at the end of the calendar year.
5 Pay for "banked" overtime will be at the rate in effect at the time the overtime was banked.
Night Premium
7.1	A night premium equal to three percent (3%) of the Group III rate, rounded to the nearest cent, shall be paid for each hour actually worked between 1600 hours and 2400 hours.
A night premium equal to four percent (4%) of the Group III rate, rounded to the nearest cent, shall be paid for each hour actually worked between 000 1
17.
hours and 0800 hours.
7.2	No night premium will he paid outside the above
hours.
7.3	Employees are to be paid the night premium if they are scheduled to start work at any hours other than between 7:00 a.m. and 9:00 a.m. No night shift premium will be paid to employees who, by mutual agreement with the Company, start a day shift prior to 7:00 a.m.
7.4	Employees who arc scheduled to start work between 7:00 a.m. and 9:00 a.m. do not receive the night premium even though their hours of work extend into the period where night premium is applicable. Employees who arc scheduled to start work between 7:00 a.m. and 9:00 a.m. and continue to work a double shift, will receive the night premium starting at 4:00 p.m.
SECTION 8
Zero Room/Packing Inspection Deck Premium
8.1	Employees who are assigned work in the Zero Room which requires them to work there for at least one (I) hour at a time shall be paid Thirty Cents ($0.30) per hour for each hour they perform work in the Zero Room.
8.2	Employees who are assigned to work in the
Packaging Inspection Deck (except Haccp Room) which requires them to work there for at least one (I) hour at a time shall be paid ten cents ($0.10) per hours for each hour they perform work in the Packaging Inspection Deck area.
SECTION 9 Holidays
9.1	The following shall be recognized as holidays for the purpose of this Agreement: New Year’s Day, Good
18.
Friday, Victoria Day, Canada Day, Friday of Carberry Fair, Civic Holiday, Labour Day, Thanksgiving Day.
Remembrance Day, Christmas Day, and Boxing Day.
If any of the above days arc deleted through legislation or otherwise, another day off as mutually agreed between the Company and the Union will be given in lieu.
A Floater Holiday will be added making twelve holidays in total. The specific day designated as the Floater will be taken around the time of Christmas 01
New Year.
9.2	Employees shall be paid eight (8) hours at theii straight time rate on each of the above holidays provided they meet the following requirements:
a)	They work their scheduled workday prior to and report for work on the holiday, if scheduled, and theii scheduled day immediately following the holiday 01 present a medical certificate acceptable to the Company showing their inability to work on such days.
b)	They must he on the payroll and available foi work.
c)	Or on an authorized leave of absence (not to include unpaid leaves, with the exception of Union leave) with the clear understanding that the employee on such authorized leave must satisfy the qualifiei immediately before or after the holiday as mentioned in (a) above.
d)	Holidays earned by new employees during theii first thirty (30) calendar days of employment will be paid only to those employees who complete thirty (30) calendar days of employment.
9.3	Employees required 10 work on such holidays shall
receive time and one-half (1-1/2) for all hours actually worked on the holiday in addition to eight (8)
19.
hours at their straight time hourly rate. Holiday hours shall be from 12:01 a.m. of the holiday to Midnight of the holiday.
9.4	Employees who are absent due to sickness or injury shall be entitled to eight (8) hours pay at their straight time rate for any holidays which fall within sixty (60) days from the last day worked.
Employees who receive Weekly Indemnity or Worker’s Compensation benefits shall be paid only the difference between the employee’s benefits and their regular holiday pay. This shall be paid following the employee’s return to work, when they were on Workers’ Compensation.
9.5	Employees who are absent on their vacation for a
period including any of the above holidays shall be entitled to eight (8) hours’ pay at their straight time rate in addition to their regular vacation or the employee may elect to receive an additional day off with eight (8) hours pay to be taken during the vacation year.
9.6	Pay for hours not worked on a holiday shall not count as hours of work for purposes of overtime in that holiday week.
SECTION 10 Vacations
10.1	The vacation year shall run from August 1st to July 31st and vacation entitlement shall be based on attendance in the previous vacation year. An employee who commences employment with the Company after August 1st of a year and before July 3 1st of the subsequent year shall be entitled to an earned vacation pro-rated on the basis of the following schedule:
20.
VACATION YEARS Following the Year in Which the Employee was Hired
1st 2nd- 5th 6th- 10th 11th- 19th 20th- 29th 30th+
4th	9th	18th 28th over
Month Hired	days days days days days days days days days days									
August. Sept.	10	10	15	15	20	20	25	25	30	30
Oct Nov.	8	10	14	15	19	20	24	25	29	30
Dec.- Jan.	6	10	13	15	18	20	23	25	28	30
Feb.- March	4	10	12	15	17	20	22	25	27	30
April- May	2	10	11	15	16	20	21	25	26	30
June- Julv	1	10	10	15	15	20	20	25	25	30
An employee who has earned three (3) days but less than five (5) days under this section will be allowed, upon request, one (I) week’s vacation including days earned; it is understood and agreed that any additional days beyond those earned will be granted without pay. An employee who has earned seven (7) days but less than ten (10) days under this section will be allowed, upon request, two (2) weeks’ vacation including days earned; it is understood and agreed that any additional days beyond those earned will be granted without pay.
It is understood and agreed the parties that in the ease of terminations and where an overpayment of vacation pay has occurred, the Company shall deduct such overpayment from the terminating employee’s last pay cheque.
21
10.2	Each week of vacation leave will be paid on the basis of forty (40) hours at the employees regular straight time hourly rate provided the individual was continuously employed during the previous vacation
year.
Employment during the previous vacation year will be regarded as continuous provided that the employee is not absent due to disability (except injury covered by Worker’s Compensation or sickness for which the employee is receiving weekly indemnity or maternity leave), layoff, or leave of absence (excluding leave for Union business) for an accumulated period of said leave of absence in excess of sixty (60) working days.
10.3	Vacation pay for individuals who have been noncontinuously employed during the previous vacation year shall be at the rate of 2% (4% in case of employees whose vacation entitlement is one week. E.g. During the first year that vacation leave is granted to an employee) of earnings during the previous vacation year for each week of vacation leave with payment being made at the time the vacation is taken. Employees entitled to partial weeks of vacation shall be paid vacation pay on the appropriate pro-rated basis, (i.e. 4% for each day of vacation entitlement.)
10.4	The term “earnings” as used in this Section IO shall include payment for all time actually worked (wages, overtime, shift and other applicable premiums, if any), statutory holiday pay, and disability benefits under the Company’s sick pay and weekly indemnity plans but shall not include vacation pay received during the previous vacation year.
10.3	“Service” as used in this Section 10 shall mean accumulated seniority without interruption by any ol the circumstances listed at 13.4 plus additional service, if any, recognized by the Company at the
22
time of the individual entry to the bargaining unit
III addition to vacations as earned in IO. 1, an) employee who works 509c of their rcgulai working hours in each of four (4) years in the preceding ten (IO) years will be entitled to an annual vacation ot three (3) weeks for each year of sei vice subsequent to the fourth year.
10.6	The Company is responsible for scheduling vacation and will attempt to schedule vacation at the time the employee requests. No requests for vacation will be unreasonably denied. Vacations will be scheduled as follows:
a)	All employees will be required to use two (2) weeks of their vacation entitlement at the time of the factory shutdown. If the factory shutdown is outside of the June 2 I to Septembei 2 I period, this clause will not apply.
b)	For the purpose of allocating the balance of the vacation entitlement, the Company will post a tentative vacation schedule no later than Novembci 30 of the previous year. Employees may then 1111 in their vacation request, which will be granted by seniority, provided requests are submitted by April 30.
c)	Requests submitted after April 30 will be allocated on a First come first serve basis. I&scheduling of such vacation within one (I) month of its scheduled date will require consent of the Company and the
employee(s) affected.
d)	In all cases, the Company will endeavour to grant vacation at the time an employee chooses, however, should the needs of the business be such that taking vacation time off at the scheduled time is not possible, the Company will give as much advance
23.
notice as possible of such changes.
e)	The Company is not obligated to permit more than ten (IO) employees off at the same time, excluding Maintenance classifications who will continue to be scheduled for vacation purposes consistent with current practice.
f)	‘A’ above shall not apply to employees who are assigned to work during the shutdown.
10.7	Where an intermittent or seasonal employee is laid off and is not expected to return prior to the end of the current vacation year such employee may elect to receive an advance payment for the vacation pay earning during the current vacation year. In this case the payment will disentitle the employee to the vacation pay and leave which would normally be granted in the subsequent year.
10.8	In determining calculation for vacation pay, fifteen (15) days and under do not count, but sixteen (16) days or over from the anniversary date will count as an additional full month.
10.9	The Company will respond to all written requests for vacation leave in writing within ten (10) working days of the request being made.
10.10	If a full-time employee is confined to their home following a stay in the hospital, or hospital due to a serious illness or injury while on vacation, and presents a Doctor’s certificate to confirm the situation, the employee may utilize any sick leave credits he may have accumulated and/or weekly indemnity benefits. Such period of confinement interrupting vacation, at the employee's request, will be rescheduled following the employee’s return to work.
SECTION .I.t
24,
Health and Welfare
Il.j The Company will arrange plans to provide scnioiit> employees with the following benefits on the first ol
[he month following completion of their probationary
period subject to the conditions of enrollment, entitlement, deductibles and co-insurance contained in the contract of insurance between the Company
and the insurer.
i)	Life Insurance - The'Company will pay the full cost of $31,000 life insurance as well as an equal amount of accidental death and dismemberment insurance. Effective October 1, 1997, life insurance and accidental death and dismemberment insurance will increase to $36,000. Effective October I, 1998, life insurance and accidental death and dismemberment insurance will increase to $41,000. Effective October I. 1999, life insurance and accidental life and dismemberment insurance will increase to $46,000. Effective October 1, 2000, life insurance and accidental death and dismemberment insurance will increase to $51,000.
Life insurance for employees assigned disability premium waiver is established and frozen at the level of insurance that was in effect at the time ol disability.
ii)	Extended Health Care The Company to pay the cost of this coverage:
Vision Care:
Year I $ 175.00/individual every 24 months.
Year 3 $200.00/individual every 24 months Year 4 - $225.00/individual every 24 months.
Prescription Drugs The Company will pay the full cost for 100% coverage on prescribed drugs.
Eye Examinations The Company will pay the cost of pro\ iding S45.00/24 month coverage foi eye exams. Effective October 1, 1998. this shall
25.
increase to $50.00/24 months coverage for eye exams.
iii)	Dental Plan - The Company will pay the cost oi this coverage. The benefits payable under this plan shall be those specified in the Dental Fee Schedule one year prior to the prevailing schedule.
Plan B 100% coinsurance
Plan C - 80% coinsurance
90% coinsurance effective October I,
1997.
(A combined maximum of $2,500 applies to coverages under Plan components kB’ and *C’ during each 12 month period.)
Plan D - 60% coinsurance (lifetime maximum of
$2,000)
iv)	The Weekly Indemnity will be 66-2/3% of the employee’s regular straight time weekly wages up to the U.I.C. maximum. The benefits shall be as follows:
Employees are eligible for benefits if totally disabled as a result of a non work related condition on completion of the applicable waiting period. The waiting periods and benefit payable are as follows:
Waiting Period Seven (7) days
Benefit Schedule - After the waiting period the first eight (8) weeks are payable by the Company.
The next fifteen (IS) weeks of eligibility by UIC.
The next twelve (12) weeks of eligibility by the Company.
v)	Following expiry of the Weekly Indemnity benefits as described in (iv) above, a long term disability plan as determined by the Union, and as
26
administered and deducted by the Company, shall be integrated with the CPP program upon request
oftheunion onthe following basis:
a)	Participation in the plan is mandatory for all employees having proper seniority standing.
b)	Benefits payable are subject io the necessary conditions as determined by the insurance carrier.
c)	The plan will provide for a benefit as determined by the plan and will he based on the employee’s straight time hourly rate of pay exclusive of premiums commencing immediately upon the termination of Weekly Indemnity and continuing for the duration of the claim or until the age of sixty-five (63), whichever is earlier.
The premium cost of the plan will be borne by the employee.
(d)	The employer is responsible for any costs incurred to the plan as a result of employer error.
(e)	The long term disability plan will he amended, changed or discontinued solely as decided by the Union.
1 1.2 Where an employee is absent due to disability, injury, maternity or parental leave, the Company shall continue its normal premium payments and coverages for life, health, and dental coverage for the month in which the absence commences and for up to twelve (I 2) months thereafter provided the employee remains totally disabled.
In the case of employees absent due to a disability compensable under Worker’s Compensation the Company shall continue its normal premium payments and coverages for life (see premium waiver), health and dental benefits for the month in which the disability commences and for up to twenty-four (24) months thereafter provided the employ ee
27.
remains totally disabled.
11.3	In the case of employees affected by layoff, or who are on a leave of absence (except Union leave, leaves while in receipt of weekly indemnity or WCB ot maternity/parental leave) the Company will continue its regular premium payments and coverage for life, health, and dental benefits for the balance of the calendar month in which the layoff occurs, and foi one (1) additional calendar month.
Employees returning from a layoff or leave of absence (except Union leave, leaves while in receipt of weekly indemnity or WCB or maternity/parental leave) of less than five (5) months shall be eligible foi health and dental coverage effective the first day of returning to work. In addition, such employees shall be eligible for group life and weekly indemnity benefits effective as of the first day of the employee’s return to work from layoff.
In the case of employees who are laid off or who are on a leave of absence (except Union leave, leaves while in receipt of weekly indemnity or WCB oi maternity/parental leave) for more than five (5) continuous months, entitlement to group life, health, dental and weekly indemnity benefits shall be reinstated on the first day of the month following return to work from layoff.
SECTION Sick Leave
12 a) An employee shall earn sick leave credits at the rate of one (I) day for each calendar month of actual work, which credit can be accumulated to a maximum of twelve (12) days. Sick leave credits may also be earned when an employee is on vacation, attending the Manitoba Trades Training Course or when off work due to an industrial
28
injury, when on funeral leave or jury duty and receiving compensation as provided in Section 2 I. or on short term leave for Union Business. An\ sick leave used is to be deducted from the employee’s sick leave accumulation and on return 10 work the employee will again earn sick leave credits on the same basis as above. Employees v, ho have an accumulation of twelve (12) days sick leave credit, then their waiting period will be one (I) day of scheduled work lost before benefits are payable. Employees who have less than twelve (12) days of sick leave accumulation. then the waiting period will be three (3) days of scheduled work lost before benefits are payable. Employees who arc regularly scheduled to work twelve (12) hour shifts, each shift shall be counted as one and one-half (I -J/2) days towards the waiting pei iod. Sick leave is to be paid only for scheduled days ol work lost at eight (8) hours at straight time at the employee’s hourly rate, except that employees who arc regularly scheduled to work twelve (I 2) houi shifts, will be paid twelve (12) straight time hours and this shall count as one and one-half (1-1/2) days towards the maximum of twelve (12) days sick leave. No sick leave will be paid if employee is eligible for Weekly Indemnity under the Insurance Program or if eligible for Worker’s Compensation. A doctor’s statement must be presented to the Company substantiating the sickness before sick leave benefits wilt be paid.
h) In addition to (a) above, employees may receive payment of wages during the waiting period provided they have sufficient banked overtime hour-s to their credit. Such payment of wages will not exceed the employee's daily earnings.
c) Employees who arc injured on the job and are
29.
awaiting receipt of Workers’ Compensation benefits, will be permitted to receive payment of wages for any unused accumulated sick days. Upon receipt of Workers’ Compensation benefits, the employee will reimburse the Company for any sick days paid by the Company.
d)	Banked overtime hours may be used for employees who have doctor or dentist appointments provided advance notice of ten (I 0) days is given and that a certificate to confirm such appointment is presented following the appointment. Such banked overtime may be taken in four hour segments. The ten (10) day notice requirement will be waived in cases of emergency.
i:) Employees with a credit of twelve (12) days sick leave, will not require a medical certificate for their first absences due to illness in a calendar year, until such absences exceed three (3) days.
SECTION 13 Seniority
13.1	Employees who have been on the payroll and who complete a probationary period of sixty (60) working days within a thirteen (13) month period of work following the date of hiring, shall be granted seniority. The seniority date of such employee so qualified shall be said date of hiring. Employees who have the same date of hiring shall be placed on the seniority list according to their payroll number.
Without otherwise limiting any rights under this Agreement except those specifically restricted to seniority employees, it is understood and agreed that all employees shall be considered and designated
30.
probationary employees during the qualifying period for seniority status as referred to in this section. The Company shall have the right to retain or discharge and such discharge shall not be subject to the
grievance procedure.
13.2	(a) Employees within the bargaining unit who accept
a position with the Company that places them outside the bargaining unit will accumulate seniority for one (I ) year after the commencement of their duties at such position. Seniority will not accumulate after one (I) year from the commencement of their duties at such position.
(b) Either the employee or the Company can elect a transfer back to the bargaining unit. In the case where a transfer out of the bargaining unit is for a period not exceeding six (6) months, the employee shall return to the same wage rate classification. In cases where the duration ol transfer out of the bargaining unit exceeds six (6) months the employee will have the right to return to the bargaining unit when a vacancy occurs in the same wage classification. If the employee returns to a posted position job, for purposes of this Agreement, that employee will be considered to have bid into the job.
13.3	The Company agrees to prepare up-to-date seniority lists and to post them on the bulletin board. Employees will have ten (10) days from the date of posting to file an objection to the date on the list which indicates their date of hire. Employees who have not filed an objection within the ten (1 0) day limit will be deemed to have agreed that the date of hire indicated on the list is correct. The seniority lists will be brought up to date and re-posted every six (6) months. The Union will be give a copy of such lists upon request.
31.
13.4	Seniority and employment will be cancelled for the following reasons:
a)	voluntary quit or resignation
b)	discharge for just cause
c)	layoff for more than twelve (12) months.
d)	failure to comply with the provisions of a leave of
absence.
e)	absence for three (3) consecutive work days without permission.
f)	failure to respond to recall from layoff within two (2) days (seven (7) days where the employee has been on layoff for more than four (4) weeks or is gainfully employed elsewhere at the time of recall) of being contacted by the Company. It is the duty of employee to notify the Company of an address and telephone number where they can currently be contacted. The Company’s duty to contact the employee pursuant to this subsection will be deemed fulfilled if the Company contacts or leaves word for the employee by telephone, or failing in that, sends a registered letter, return receipt request, to the address most recently submitted by the employee.
Layoff and Recall
13.5	In laying off employees because of reduction in force for a period in excess of one (I) day, or the remainder of a shift commenced, the employees shortest in length of seniority shall be laid off first provided those retained are trained, experienced and capable of performing the available work.
13.6	In administering the provision of (I 3.5) employees laid off from their particular classification will displace the junior employee in the next successively
32,
lower classification provided they have sufficient seniority and are able to satisfy the conditions of (13.5). This process will be repeated until the employee finds a job open to him/her by application of seniority or becomes subject lo layoff.
13.7	Seniority permitting, employees who are unable to claim a job by application of (I 3.6) and prior to being placed on actual layoff, may displace the junioi employee in a successfully higher classification Subject to the conditions of (13.5).
13.8	Employees claiming a job as outlined above shall be paid the applicable rate of pay in accordance with Appendix “A”.
13.9	In recalling employees to work where it is expected the work available to last for one (I) week or less, the Company will take anyone available from a list of employees who have previously signified their desire for short time work. If it is expected that the work period will be for over one (I ) week, the employees who have the greatest seniority shall be called back first, provided they are trained, experienced and capable of performing the available work.
13. IO During periods of recall in excess of one (I) week, employees will be returned to the position held immediately prior to the layoff provided sufficient jobs are available.
13.	I I The Company will endeavour to notify the Union of
any layoff and/or recall from layoff within forty-eight (48) hours but, in any event, not later than one (I ) week.
SECTION 14 Job Posting
14,	i Permanent vacancies as determined by the Company
in the classifications listed below shall be posted for a period of five (5) working days. The senior applicant
33.
will be awarded the position. In the event the senior applicant is not awarded the position, the Chief Steward will be notified in advance of any other appointments.
In accordance with the above, the following classifications and specific positions shall be posted: all Monday to Friday positions excluding Maintenance, Group I, Factory Trainer and W.U.C. all positions on day shift except Maintenance, Group I, Factory Trainer and W.U.C.
-	all non-continuous shift jobs except Maintenance, Group I, Factory Trainer and W.U.C.
Group I A .
Laboratory Operators
-	Scalehouse
The Union will receive copies of all job postings
The Raw Material Operator job shall be regarded as a preferred job and require posting. Permanent vacancies as determined by the Company in the Maintenance and Group I classifications shall be posted for a period of five (5) working days. Subject to applicants satisfying the necessary qualifications and requirements of the job as specified on the posting, the senior employee will be awarded the position. The Chief Stewart will be notified in advance of any other appointment. The Union will receive copies of all job postings.
Vacancies as determined by the Company for Factory Trainer or Work Unit Coordinator will be filled as outlined in Letter of Understanding Re: Work Unit Coordinator.
14.2	a) Eligibility to apply for posted jobs is limited to seniority employees except where there are no seniority applicants or in the case of Maintenance classifications which require a license or ticket. In the case of a maintenance classification that does not
34
require a license or ticket immediately, preference will be given to seniority employees having previous experience within the organization and/or partial qualifications for the job requirements as well as proven ability to acquire a journeyman status within the normal time period specified.
b) Employees who are or will be absent from work, may provide the employer with a letter indicating they wish to be considered to have bid on jobs which may be posted during the employee's absence. Such letters will be deemed to be applications.
14.3	Except as provided below, after successfully posting into a job an employee shall be prohibited from applying for other posted jobs for a period of six (6) months unless otherwise mutually agreed or unless the job to which they have posted becomes redundant. This shall not apply to employees who leave a posted job under Section 14.4.
Trades employees who have been laid off or reduced to non-trades positions will have the above six (6) month prohibition waived if bidding into a posted trades position.
Employees who have successfully posted into a temporary classification will have the above six (6) month prohibition waived if bidding into a permanent position within the same classification.
14.4	For permanent postings only, if during the first thirty (30) working days an employee proves unsatisfactory in the job to which he has posted, or elects to leave such job, the employee shall be returned to his formci job and rate of pay, if it still exists, or some other job which is mutually acceptable to the employee, the employer and the Union.
In either event, should the removal of the employee from the posted job make it necessary to reverse the
35.
transfer or promotion or any other employee, that employee will also be returned to his former job and rate of pay or some other job which is mutually acceptable to the employee, the employer and the Union.
It is recognized that it may require several weeks to make the arrangements necessary to accommodate such job adjustments.
In case of more than one employee applying for a posted job, and the successful applicant does vacate the posted job within thirty (30) working days, the next applicant on the original list of applicants will be given the opportunity to fill the posted job in compliance with Section 14. I of the Collective Agreement.
Nothing in 14.4 or 14.5 will prohibit any employee from bidding into a Group I or higher position.
14.5 Employees who take a temporary job shall, on completion of the work, be returned to the same job they left to go to the temporary job if it still exists, or if it does not exist, to the same job classification rate. A temporary job is defined as a job of not less than one (I) calendar month nor more than six (6) calendar months. Should a temporary vacancy occur in the IA classification, the normal posting process shall apply. Should a second temporary vacancy result in the same classification, it will then be filled by people not presently holding posted positions. If the second temporary position exceeds six (6) months, it shall be posted.
At term job is one that has a set period of time as defined at the start of the job. At the end of a term, an employee can return to their previous job in the same manner as referred to in paragraph I above.
36,
Temporary and term jobs shall be posted and identified as such.
14.6	In situations where employees have applied for Company bulletined cross-training and were successfully trained, senior mined employees will he given preference in awarding the posted position. Training and cross-training will be posted with clearly defined prerequisites and required qualifications, length of time training will cover and anticipated start and end dates. Subject to applicants satisfying the necessary qualifications and requirements of the training opportunity, the senior applicant will be awarded the training opportunity.
Training and cross-training as outlined above will be defined as follows:
Training - training in a job outside the employee’s “group” and/or classification.
Cross-training - training in a job within the employee’s “group” and/or classification.
It is agreed that an upgrading of an employee’s current job is neither training or cross-training.
14.7	Recognizing the complexities associated with the Company's operation which is further compounded by natural attrition, vacation, leaves of absences and other legitimate needs of the business, employees will be allowed to bid and/or to undergo cross-training in other job functions. Upon completion of crosstraining, employees will be returned to their regulai job and will displace any employee who might have been temporarily transferred to such position.
Prior to any employee being required to vacate his 01 her regular job to facilitate cross-training. the Company and the Union will meet to determine the length and nature of the training. In no event will any employee under any circumstance have his or her wage reduced as a result of his or her own or any other employee’s cross-training.
37.
No employee will be removed from his or her job foi the purpose of cross-training for more than two (2) periods of cross-training in any one (1) calendar year, but in any event, not more than three (3) months total cross-training in any one year.
14.8	Temporary Transfers and Assignments
Notwithstanding the above, temporary absences, operating changes, scheduling adjustments and other such requirements create a need to temporarily transfer or assign employees from their regular work.
It is necessary to effect these transfers quickly and with minimum disruption to the balance of the factory operations. Keeping this in mind the Company will, where possible, make such assignments on a rotational (to allow a number of employees to gain benefit) or seniority basis. In either case the aim being to arrange temporary assignments in a manner that is fair and equitable.
14.9	Where the Company determines that employees require training to perform their job, refusal of training will result in the loss of their job posting. When such training is required, as confirmed by a Union-Management Committee of equal representation, the Company will pay for all reasonable expenses incurred, including either:
a)	wages lost for their normal working day, or
b)	time spent training up to a maximum of eight (8) hours at straight time per day (including time spent training outside regular work hours), or
c)	applicable overtime or premium rates consistent with the Collective Agreement, if an employee’s day off, to a maximum of eight (8) hours at those rates.
Government programs which offset wages may be applied providing no employee loses wages as a result.
14.10	li the duties of a job are changed substantially, the Union will have t h e light t o request a reclassification of the job. If the Company and the Union cannot agree on the reclassification, the matter may be referred to arbitration.
Classifications and Rates of Pa\
15.1	The classifications and rales of pay shall be as contained in Appendix “A” and become a pail of this agreement by reference hereto. The rates of pay as contained in Appendix “A” shall be the only rates paid to employees.
15.2	When new job classifications are established by the Company, it shall establish an hourly rate of pay foi the new classification. The Union will be so advised. If after a trial period of thirty (30) days the Union believes the hourly rale established by the Company to be unsatisfactory, the dispute shall be settled pursuant to the grievance procedure.
t 5.3 Premium pay for weekend work as stated in 6.4 and 6.5 will not apply to the powerhouse employees, those classifications being Assistant Chief Engineer, 2nd Class Engineer, 3rd Class Engineer, 4th Class Engineer and Compressor Trainee.
15.4 Payment of Wages
The Company agrees that payment of wages will continue on the same basis as currently in effect, unless by agreement otherwise by the Union.
SECTION 16 Physical Disability
16. I Employees unable to do work normally done because of age or physical handicap may be hired or retained at the discretion of the Company at a rate suitable to the Company and the Union.
39.
cSHCTlON 17 Leave of Absence
17. 1 Leaves of absence shall be granted to employees in case of disability resulting from injury, illness or
pregnancy.
17.2	Leaves of absence for reason of pregnancy shall begin when the employee’s doctor certifies that the employee is physically unable to work. Maternity leaves may continue for four (4) months beyond confinement or longer if the need for a further extension is verified by the employee’s doctor. Such extensions shall be for thirty (30) day periods.
In cases of medical conditions directly attributed to pregnancy which necessitate absence from work prioi to commencement of pregnancy leave or delay of return to work following pregnancy leave, group insurance benefits shall be granted to employees under the same conditions as these benefits are granted to other employees.
Employees on maternity leave who wish to take parental leave immediately upon expiration of maternity leave, may do so unless the employee and employer agree to make other arrangements.
Parental leave will be granted without the set-vice qualifier, as in the case of maternity leave. The general provisions of the E.S.A. for the province of Manitoba shall also apply.
17.3	Leaves of absence may be granted to any employee by the Company for good and sufficient reason upon written request by the employee provided the granting of such leave does not interfere with the requirements of the business. Leaves of absence shall not be granted for purposes of trying other employment oi self-employment (including farming). Any violation
40.
of this provision shall result in loss of seniority. The Company shall reply to written requests for leaves of absence not later than two weeks from the date the quest was made. If the requested leave of absence is for a period of one (I) week or more, if it is granted by the Company, it shall be confirmed in writing and a copy thereof sent to the Union.
17.4	Leaves of absence for periods not to exceed one (I) year, shall be allowed in the case of physical disability. Any employee requesting such a leave shall provide the Company with a written Doctor’s statement certifying the nature of the disability and the necessity for time off work, in the event the employee has a continuing disability and is unable 10 return to work at the expiration of such leave, or any extension thereof, the employee shall provide the Company with additional medical certification prior to the expiration of the current leave period. At the end of one (1) year, each non-occupational disability will be reviewed by the Company and the Union. Any further extension of such leave of absence will be at the discretion of the Company. Leaves of absence resulting from occupational illness or injuries sustained at work for the Company shall automatically be extended for a period of up to one (I) additional year and may be further extended upon mutual agreement between the Company and the Union.
17.5	When possible, employees returning from a leave of absence shall receive their same work station assignment or wage scale upon returning. However, there will be no guarantee that such employees will receive their same work station assignment or wage scale upon returning.
Any employee who does not return from or overstays a leave of absence without sufficient cause oi
41.
reasonable excuse will be considered to have quit the Company’s employment, and if rehired, shall be considered for all purposes a new employee.
17.6	Employees (not more than five) to be chosen by the Union to attend Union business outside the plant shall be granted a leave of absence not exceeding thirty (30) days, provided that the absence of each employee shall not unreasonably affect the operations. The Union shall advise the Company before exercising this prerogative. Employee(s) on such leave of absence shall not experience any loss of wages 01 benefits which are not normally compensated while on leave and shall remain on payroll with the understanding that the Union will reimburse the Company for any wages or benefits compensated.
t 7.7 Employees with at lease two (2) years of continuous service will be allowed an unpaid leave of absence foi educational purposes provided the leave supports the business and further provided that management approves the leave.
SECTION 18 Health and Safety
18.1	Employees who are injured on the job shall be paid at their hourly rate for all straight time hours lost in obtaining medical treatment on the day the injury occurred, provided the injury did not result from violation of Company rules.
18.2	The Company shall make reasonable provisions foi the safety and health of employees during the hours of their employment in accordance with the rules and regulations of the Workplace Safety and Health Act in the Province of Manitoba.
Union members of the Health and Safety Committee will receive a maximum of sixteen (16) hours paid education leave per year for the purpose of health and
42.
safety training. Said leave will be used to send the Union members of the Health and Safety Committee to courses as agreed upon by the Health and Safety Committee.
18.3	(a) Protective devices on machinery and other
devices deemed necessary to properly protect employees from injury shall be provided by the Company. Should such reasonable provisions not be made or such protection devices not be provided, the matter may be subject to the grievance procedure but excluding arbitration.
18.3	(b) A safety shoe allowance of one hundred dollars
($100.00) per year shall be provided for all employees having proper seniority standing. As of October I. 1998, the safety shoe allowance shall be one hundred and five dollars ($105.00) per year. As of October I, 2000, the safety shoe allowance shall be me hundred and ten dollars ($ 110.00) per year.
A rubber boot allowance of fifty ($50.00) per yeai shall be provided for all employees who must wear rubber boots and who have proper seniority standing. As of October I, 1998, the rubber boot allowance shall be fifty-five ($55.00) per year. As of October I, 2000, the rubber boot allowance shall be sixty dollars ($60.00) per year.
Employees who wear rubber boots only will be allowed to access the safety shoe allowance foi additional pail-s of rubber boots.
(c) The Company will pay the full cost of prescription safety glasses for any employee required to wear same as follows:
i)	the employee obtains their safety glasses from (he Company’s suppliei
ii)	all employees regularly working in the
43.
maintenance department (regular shall mean 500 or more hours) will be provided prescription safety glasses if required to wear same.
iii)	employees working in the department irregularly will be provided with suitable eye covering if required to wear prescription
glasses.
SECTION 19 Representation
19.1	The Company agrees to recognize the following
officials as representing the Union for the referenced
purposes:
a)	Administration of the Collective Agreement -Stewards appointed or otherwise selected. Such individuals shall have at least one (I) year’s service with the Company and shall represent the various departments of the factory.
b)	Grievances progressing to Step 2 A Grievance Committee comprised of three (3) seniority employees having at least one (I) year’s service.
c)	General Labour - Management Issues - A union Executive Committee comprised of the President, Vice President, and Chief Steward to discuss matters of mutual interest when agreed that need
dictates.
d)	Negotiations A Union Committee comprised oi six (6) seniority employees each having at least one (1) year’s service with the Company and in addition a full time representative of the Union Time off for the Union Negotiating Committee will be shared on a SO-SO basis by the Company and the union to a maximum of eight (8) hours per day per person.
44.
e)	Time Off for Union Business Upon one mouth notice in writing from the Union, the Company, agrees to grant a leave of absence of up to one (I ) year (renewable from year to year) to one (I) employee who is elected or appointed 10 a full-time position in the Union. Such leave of absence shall be without pay or other benefits. However, seniority will continue to accumulated throughout the leave. The Union agrees to notify the Company at least one (I) month in advance of the employee’s return to work for the Company. Upon return, the employee will be returned 10 his/hei position.
19.2	The Union shall advise the Company of the names of all Union executive members, stewards, alternate stewards and the full-time Union Representative who is responsible for servicing the unit and the Company shall not be required to recognize such representative until so advised in writing.
19 3 An employee representing the Union as provided b) subsections 18. I (a), (b), and (c) above, shall not lose pay for time spent in discussions with management about grievances and other matters of mutual concern provided that:
a)	he shall first obtain permission of supervision before leaving his work and such permission shall not be unreasonably denied;
b)	this shall not include time spent to deal with
grievances at arbitration;
c)	the Company retains the right to limit such time it it seems excessive and to schedule meetings so as not to interfere with the operation of the business:
d)	such meetings shall not give rise to payment beyond that which the employee would have received if the meeting had not been held.
45
19.4	The Company agrees to admit to its factory at all reasonable times the authorized representative of the Union for the purposes of observing the application of this Agreement and adjusting grievances. These activities are to be discharged in a manner that will avoid unnecessary loss of time or disruption of work schedules. The Union representative shall obtain permission from the Company before or at the time of the desired visits by notifying the Factory Manager or his shift designee prior to entering the factory.
SECTION
General
20. I Bulletin Board
‘The Company will provide space for Union bulletin boards for the posting of official Union notices, provided such notices are submitted and approved by the Personnel Manager prior to posting.
20.2	‘Tool Allowance
‘The Company intends to provide Maintenance employees with tool allowance.
Each Maintenance employee will be reimbursed up to two hundred and fifty dollars ($250.00) per Collective Agreement year depending upon the employee’s submission of receipts for personal tool expenditures. Effective October I, 1998, reimbursement will be iwo hundred and seventy-five dollars ($275.00) and effective October 1, 2000, reimbursement will be foi three hundred dollars ($300.00).
20.3	Parking
The Company will endeavour to provide parking spaces with plugs for all employees requiring same at no cost to the employee, unless damage occurs as a result of negligence or abuse.
46.
SECTION 21 Paid Leaves
2 I. I A bereavement leave of three days will be granted to employees having proper seniority standing for time lost from work resulting from the death of a inembei of their immediate family. Immediate family is defined as wife, husband, mother, father, daughter, son, sister, brother, mother-in-law, father-in-law. grandparents, grandchildren, spouse's grandparents, sister-in-law, brother-in-law, step-mother, step-father and step-children. Common-law spouse of the same or opposite sex will also be considered as immediate family provided the period of cohabitation at the time of death is not less than one year. Maximum payment will not exceed twenty-four (24) hours. Employees will be granted up to one (I) day with pay in order to be a pallbearer at a funeral. The bereavement leave must start no later than the day of the funeral and end no later than two (2) days after the day of the funeral except where an employee wishes to use one (1) day of bereavement leave entitlement to attend a memorial service. In the event of the death of an employee’s aunt, uncle, niece, or nephew, one day paid leave will be granted for time lost from work foi the purpose of attending the funeral.
2 1.2 Employees summoned to jury duty and/or employees required by the Crown or subpoenaed as a witness shall be paid straight time wages amounting to the difference between the amount paid to them for jury duty/witness fees and the amount they would have earned had they worked on such day. This does not apply if jury duty/witnessing occurs on the employee’s scheduled day off. Payment foi witnessing will be to a maximum of one (1) day and will not be paid, in any event, to an accused person.
47.
21.3	Male shall be granted two (2) day’s leave with pay on the occasion of the birth of their child. Such leave will be granted within one (I) week of the date of birth 01 other mutually agreeable dates.
SECTION 22 No Strike No Lockout
22.1	There shall be no cessation of work by strikes or slowdowns by employees or lockouts by the Company during the term of this Agreement or during the period of negotiations for renewal.
SECTION 23 Scope of Agreement
23. I This Agreement fully and completely incorporates the understanding hereto and constitutes the sole and entire Agreement between the parties on any and all matters subject to collective bargaining. Neither party shall, during the term of this Agreement, be required to accede to any demand for change herein, nor shall either party be required to bargain with respect to any matter during the life of this Agreement.
23.2	In the event that any sections or portions of this Agreement are determined to be improper or invalid by a court of law or Labour Board, such decision shall not invalidate any other portions of this Agreement than those directly specified by such decision to be invalid, improper or otherwise unenforceable.
SECTION Warning Slips
24.1	Warning slips given to an employee will be erased after one (I) year from the date of the warning slip, except in cases where additional warning slips are given to an employee before a previously issued warning slip is cancelled.
48
24.2	The Company shall provide (he Union with copies of all written warnings, notices of suspension and termination when issued. Written warnings will be given within five (5) days of the event giving rise to the discipline unless circumstances prevent this from occurring.
24.3	In cases of reprimand, suspension or discharge, the Shop Steward or in his absence, an Executive Board member, shall be present unless the employee elects in writing to exclude the Shop Sleward/Executive Board member. The Chief Steward will receive copies of any reprimand, suspension or discharge which will become pait of the employee's personnel file.
SECTION 25
Grievance and Arbitration
25. i Both the Company and the Union emphasize the importance of the grievance procedure, the purpose of which will be to settle as many grievances as possible promptly and on the spot. Accordingly, grievances shall be considered timely if filed at Step I within ten (10) workdays of the incident giving rise to the grievance and also provided that it has first been dealt with as a complaint. It is further agreed that consultation at any step in the following procedure will take place quietly and speedily so that an) possible cause of friction may be reduced to a minimum.
Grievances will be processed as follows: COMPLAINT STAGE
The employee shall discuss the matter with theii supervisor in an effort to achieve a satisfactory resolution. The employee may be accompanied by a Union Steward or his alternate during such discussion if they feel this will be of assistance in explaining their complaint. If a satisfactory settlement is not reached the complaint may be carried forward to Step I as a grievance.
49.
STEP 1
If the discussion with the supervisor does not resolve the matter to the employee’s satisfaction a written grievance, duly signed by the employee, may be presented to the Human Resources within ten (10) working days of the incident giving rise to the grievance. Human Resources will set up a meeting to be attended by Human Resources, the supervisor, the stewarl and the employee. The supervisor or his designate shall give a written answer to the grievance within five (5) working days of receipt of the grievance.
STEP 2
If the decision at Step I is unsatisfactory to the employee the grievance may be re-submitted by the Union Grievance Committee to the Human Resources within five (5) working days of the written response at Step 1. Human Resources will set up a meeting to be attended by Human Resources, the Department Manager, and the Grievance Committee. The Department Manager or his designate shall render a written decision within five (5) working days following the date of discussion with the Union Grievance Committee.
STEP 3
If the reply of the Department Manager or his designate is not satisfactory the grievance may proceed to Step 3 within five (5) working days of the receipt of the Step 2 decision. Human Resources will set up a meeting to be attended by the Director of Operations, Human Resources, the Grievance Committee and the Union Representative. The meeting shall take place within five (5) working days of notification to proceed to Step 3. The Company shall reader a decision within five (5) working days following the above meeting.
At any step in the grievance process, either party may 50.
bring to the meeting a person(s) who they feel adds value to the grievance meeting.
25.2	Employees who are dismissed, suspended, disciplined for any reason whatsoever, or laid off, and feel that they have been unjustly dealt with shall promptly notify a member of the Grievance Committee who shall, within five (5) working days of receipt of notice of dismissal, suspension or layoff by the aggrieved employee, notify the Plant Manager, stating the grounds of objection to the dismissal, suspension or layoff. The dismissal, suspension or layoff shall then constitute a grievance and shall be dealt with according to the Grievance Procedure set out above, beginning with Step 2 above. If subsequently it is decided that the employees were unjustly dismissed, suspended or laid off, they shall be reinstated in theii former position and shall be compensated for all time lost at their regular rale of pay or granted such lesser compensation as may be decided fair in the circumstances.
25.3	Should disputes, claims or grievances arise as to the meaning or interpretation of this Agreement that cannot be settled by the Union and the Company, they may be submitted to an impartial Arbitrator, as listed below at the f6C|U6St of either party. The Arbitrators are as set forth and will be used on a rotating basis;
Paul Teskey Wally Fox-Decent Martin Freedman
If any individual of the above noted panel, who has been requested in his or her turn to act as Arbitrator, is unable or unwilling to act, she/he shalt not again be requested to act as the Arbitrator unless his/her name comes up again on a regular rotation of the panel.
An Arbitrator shall not be deemed willing to act unless he/she is in a position to convene the hearing
51.
within twenty-eight (28) days of the date of his/hei selection. If none of the above named Arbitrators is willing to act, either party may request the Manitoba Labour Board to appoint an arbitrator.
Failure to request arbitration within the ten (10) working days following the Company’s answer in Step 3 shall be deemed a withdrawal of the grievance and it will not be considered any further.
The decision of the Arbitrator shall be final and binding upon the parties hereto and all persons concerned or affected. It is further understood that the Arbitrator shall, in each case, be bound by the provisions of this Agreement and that she/he is not vested with the authority to change, amend, or modify any of the provisions of this Agreement but only to interpret the provisions thereof.
The decision of the Arbitrator shall be given within a period of thirty (30) days after the closing of the arbitration proceedings.
In the interest of settling a grievance prior to an arbitration hearing, either party may request assistance of a grievance mediator from the Province of Manitoba Conciliation Services.
25.4	The time limits set out in the above procedure can be extended upon mutual agreement of the parties.
25.5	The Union and The Company shall each pay any costs connected with the presentation of their respective cases and the cost of the Arbitrator shall be divided equally between the Company and the Union.
SECTION 26 Licence Renewal
26.1	The Company will reimburse employees for the additional cost (e.g. in excess of their standard drivers license) that is involved in maintaining a special 52.
license required by law or by the Company foi specific jobs.
26.2	The Company will reimburse employees for time lost from work in order to write tests for licences required to perform their job for the Company where it is impossible to schedule the employees forty (40) hours of work in the week in which the tests are taken.
SECTION 27 Trades Training
27. J Maintenance employees who take the Manitoba Trades Training Program or other accredited program, as scheduled and approved by the Company and successfully completes the program will, on their return to work, be paid twenty-five (25) hours at straight time for each week that they attended the training course. Employees are to present to the Company proof of their having successfully completed the course.
27.2	Should government assistance be deleted, the Company will match what was paid for accommodations, meals, tuition and books. If government assistance is deleted, the Company will pay employees 50% of their regular wages on a weekly basis with the balance of the employee’s regular wages paid out upon the successful completion of the course. In order to qualify foi employer assistance, employees must successfully complete a Trades Assessment administrated by an external agency as determined by a joint committee approved by the Union and the Company. The above will apply to any Manitoba Trades training or other accredited program.
53,
SECTOR 28 Pension Plan
28.1	The Company will continue to provide on a contributory basis, pension benefits as specified under the current Carnation Retirement Plan No. I for all eligible employees as defined in a separate outline furnished to the employees.
The Company will ensure that employees are provided with annual statements indicating the pension benefits that they have accrued to date. In addition the pension benefit pamphlet will be periodically updated as required.
The Union recognizes that the Company is exclusively responsible for the overall operation and administration of the Pension Plan and Fund. Further it is recognized that the Company reserves the right to merge other Company pension plans and funds into the current Plan and Fund, or vice versa, and also to arrange pension benefits for other employee groups under the current Plan and Fund, provided that such actions do not affect the accrued pension benefits of Carberry employees.
Effective the date of ratification, the terms of the pension plan will be amended as follows;
Employees retiring will do so with the following actuarial reductions from the basic pension plan:
Retiring	Pension Benefit
62	100%
61	91%
60	88%
59	80%
58	75%
57	70%
56	65%
55	60%
54.
28.2	During periods of absence from work for which employees are receiving either weekly indemnity benefits or benefits from the Workers’ Compensation, pension credits shall continue as usual as though the employee were actually at work.
28.3	Registered Retirement Savings Plan
The Company will administer through payroll deductions, a voluntary group RRSP as chosen by the Union. On a calendar year basis, the employee will determine the amount to be deducted weekly from regular earnings and this shall remain unchanged during the year except where no pay cheque is issued and in such case, no deduction will be made. Such deductions will be remitted to the group RRSP by the Company on a monthly basis.
SECTION 29 Technological Change
29. 1 In this section technological change means a change of an ongoing nature in factory operations which is directly related to the introduction of equipment, material or processes different from that previously used in factory operations.
29.2	Where the Company proposes to effect a technological change that is likely to affect either the terms and conditions, or the security, of employment of a significant number of employees notice of the change shall be given to the Union no later than ninety (90) calendar days prior to the date on which the change is to be affected.
29.3	The notice shall be in writing and shall stale:
a)	the nature of the technological change;
b)	the proposed effective date of the technological change;
c)	the approximate number and type of employers to
55.
be affected by the technological change;
d)	the effects of the technological change may be expected to have on employees terms and conditions, or the security, of employment of bargaining unit members.
29.4	Where a seniority employee’s regular job is permanently eliminated as a result of a “technological change” such employee will acquire the right to “bump” less senior employees according to the following procedure:
a)	The Company in consultation with the Union will endeavour to place the employee in an available job which is at a rate of pay equal to or higher than that of his previous position.
b)	Where the Company’s efforts under (a) above, prove unsuccessful the employee shall be entitled:
i)	to “bump” the most junior employee in his own wage group who holds a position for which he is qualified;
ii)	it'i) above does not provide the employee with a position, to “bump” the most junior employee in a lower wage group who holds a position for which he is qualified.
For the purpose of this section “qualified” shall mean that in the reasonable opinion of the Company the employee has the capability to qualify for the job within a reasonable period of time and in any event currently possesses any license or trade qualifications which may be required.
29.5	All new classifications which are included in the bargaining unit, or existing classifications which are significantly altered, as a result of a technological change shall be Subject to classification as provided in section 15.2 of the Collective Agreement.
56.
29.6	Where the employment of ten ( 10) or more seniority employees is expected to be permanently eliminated as a result of a technological change the Company will offer such employees a relocation counselling workshop to assist them in their search for new jobs.
29.7	The parties agree that the above provisions will be applicable in the event of technological changes and therefore that Sections 83, 84, and 85 of the Laboui Relations Act do not apply during the term of the Collective Agreement.
SECTION 30 Severance Pay
30. I ‘The Company agrees to make severance payments to all seniority employees who employment is terminated as a result of a factory closure. Payments will be determine as follows:
a) Category_______
employees with less than IO years seniority
Severance Payment 1 weeks pay per year of seniority
employees with IO years 1.5 weeks pay per seniority but less than year of seniority 25 years of seniority
employees with 15 years seniority but less than 25 years of seniority
employees with 25 oi more years seniority
1	.75 weeks pay pei year of seniority
2	weeks pay per year of seniority
b) Seniority is determined as of the employees termination date.
e)	For the purpose of the above calculations seniority will be rounded to the nest higher quarter (1/4) of a year.
57.
d)	A weeks pay is ecjual to forty (40) hours at the rate
stipulated in the Collective Agreement for the job held by the employee at the time of termination.
e)	Severance payable under this section shall be deemed to include any severance pay as may be required under any Manitoba legislation.
0 Severance will not be payable to any employee who is discharged for just cause or who quits prior to their final scheduled day of work.
SECTION 3,1 Duration
3 1.1 This Agreement shall be effective as of the October I, 1996 and shall continue in full force and effect through September 30, 2001, and will continue thereafter from year to year unless written notice by either party of its desire to amend or terminate this Agreement is given by either party to the other not more than ninety (90) nor less than thirty (30) days prior to the expiry date of this Agreement, or not more than ninety (90) nor less than thirty (30) days prior to the expiry date in any year thereafter.
3 I .2 On the receipt of such opening notice, negotiations shall commence within ten (IO) days of receipt of such, except that this time may be extended by eithei party or by mutual agreement.
31.3	During the period of negotiations, this Agreement shall remain in force.
Signed Carbcrry this 14th day of May, 1997
FOR THE UNION Darlene Dziewit Barry Wiebe Ray Muirhead Glenn Creasy Greg Smart Linda Popien 58.
FOR THE COMPANY Audrey Orofiainma David MacKenzie William Cairney Maureen Tymburski
Appendices and Letters of Understanding
All Appendices and Letters of Understanding as attached to this Agreement shall form an integral pan of this Collective Agreement.
A-1.01	APPENDIX ‘A’
Effective	Effective	Effective	Effective	Effective
I Oct. 96	1 Oct. 97	1 Oct. 98	1 Oct. 99	1 Oct. 00
Factory Trainer 19.77	20.17	20.57	20.98	*
GROUP I 15.00 VvorKumt Coordinator Lead Personnel Lead Trainer WHIMS Coordinator Forklift Operator Trainer	15.30	15.61	15.92	>8
GROUP IA 14.08 Chemical Operator	14.36	14.65	14.94	
Additive Operator A.D.R. Operator Crystal Drum Operator Fryer Operator
Effective	Effective
- ~-^096	1 Oct. 97
GROUP IA (cont.) 14.08	14.36
Granule Dryer Operator Irrigation Operator Laboratory. Operator Recovery Operator
Frozen Form Fill Seal Machine Operator
Blancher Operator
Curter Deck Operator
Palletizing Operator
Case Sealer Operator
Peel Room Operator
Segregation Coordinator
Training Clerk
Crystal Line Check Operator
Crystal line Packaging Operator
Granule Line Packaging Operator
Raw Product Grading Operator
YSI Operator
Effective 1 Oct. 98
14.65
Effective 1 Oct. 99
14.95
Effective
i Oct, no
Effective
1 Oct 96
GROUP11
Sanitation Operator Evcnflow/Raw Supply Operator Forklift Operator Frozen Bag-off Operator Grounds Keeper Raw Material Operator Communication Coordinator Knife Sharpener Blend Back Operator Material Receiving Operator
GROUP III	12.25
Clean-up Crew Trimmer Inspector Packaging Inspector House Keeper Scalehouse Personnel Crystal Line Packaging Labourer o> Crystal Line Bag-off Labourer
Effective 1 Oct. 97
13.98
Effective I Oct. 98
i 4.26
Effective 1 Oct. 99
i 4.55
Effective
1 Oct. 00
12.50
12.75
13.01
a> ro	Effective	Effective	Effective	Effective	Effective
	1 Oct. 96	1 Oct. 97	1 Oct. 98	1 Oct. 99	I Oct 00
GROUP III (cont.)	12.25	12.50	12.75	13.01	*
Granule Packa<,,inrr Labourer Blend Back Labourer Ray Supply Labourer Even Flow Sanitation Labourer Packaging Sanitation Labourer Packaging Runner Segregation Runner Watch Personnel
* Watch Personnel Lead Hand shall be paid $1.00 over the Watch Personnel rate
APPENDIX “A’
MAINTENANCE CLASSIFICATIONS
	Effective	Effective	Effective	Effective	Effective
	I Oct. 96	1 Oct. 97	1 Oct. 98	1 Oct. 99	I Oct. 00
Assistant Chief Engineer	23.88	24.36	24.85	os os	*
2nd Class Engineer Electrical Dept.	22.40	22.85	23.31	23.78	A
crew Leader Maintenance Personnel	20.96	21.38	21.81	22.25	*
Crew Leader	20.23	20.63	21.04	21.46	A
Journeyman Electrician Instrumentation Technologist	19.94	20.34	20.75	21.17	
3rd Class Engineer	19.91	20.3 1	20.72	21.13	*
Gas Pip: Fitter “A” Motor Pool Crew Leader Journeyman Industrial	19.65	20.04	20.44	20.85	
Mechanic Journeyman Plumber	19.16	19.54	19.93	20.33	
Journeyman Auto Mechanic Journeyman Carpenter	18.59	18.96	19.34	19.73	
a) Machinist
	Effective	Effective	Effective	Effective	Effective
1 Oct. 96 1 Oct. 97 MAINTENANCE CLASSIFICATIONS (cont.)			1 Oct. 98	1 Oct. 99	I Oct. 00
4th Class Engineer	18.41	18.78	19.16	19.54	*
Computer Technologist Electronic Technician	18.06	18.42	18.79	19.17	*
ri9rpAnt(>r	16.67	>7 QQ	17.34	17.69	*
Compressor Trainee	16.75	17.09	17.43	17.78	*
Maintenance Personnel Plant Electrician Auto Mechanic	15.86	16.18	16.50	16.83	
ADR Technician	15.38	15.69	16.00	16.32	*
Stock Room Clerk	14.72	15.01	15.31	15.62	*
Relief Mechanic	14.08	14.36	14.65	14.94	*
* Annual inflation rate based classifications.	on Canada CPI	for July 2000 will be applied against all			wage rate
An employee who holds a Pressure Weiding		Ticket shaii be paid one dollar (S i .00) per hour above			
current rate if and when they are conducting pressure welding.
Unticketed Maintenance (incumbents only, effective October 1, 1996) shall receive an increases of $.50 per year prior to any increase.
APPENDIX “A”
A- 1 .02 New employees in Groups I, IA. II, and III may be paid at a rate of 12.5% below the foregoing rates for the first sixty (60) working days of employment, and 6.25% below the foregoing rates for the second sixty (60) working days period. Following the completion of a total of one hundred twenty (I 20) working days, the employee shall receive the appropriate contract rate. For the purpose of this section, a new employee shall be a person who has not worked for the Company during the twelve (12) months previous to date of hiring.
A- I .03 Employees shall not have their rate reduced during the day by reason of being assigned to a lowei paid job for the remainder of that day.
Employees permanently assigned to a lower paid job or group shall have their hourly rate reduced to the job which they are assigned.
A-l .04 Upon acceptance of a position as Maintenance Man, Maintenance Carpenter, Garagcman or Plant Electrician, an employee will enter a sixteen (16) month training program. Such program will consist of four (4) equal periods of four (4) months. The hourly rate of pay during the training program is outlined in paragraph (a) or (b) below, whichever is applicable:
The difference between the Group I A rate and the standard rate for the position will be divided into four equal parts.
(a) First Period * Group IA
Second Period - Group IA plus 25% of the difference.
Third Period - Group IA plus 50% of the
difference.
65
Fourth Period - Group IA plus 75% of the difference.
(b) Employees accepting a position as Maintenance Man, Maintenance Carpenter. Garageman or Plant Electrician who have been transferred to such position from a job within the bargaining unit with an hourly rate of more than the Group IA rate, will have the difference between the rate of the job transferred from and the standard rate divided into four (4) approximately equal parts that will be put into effect as per the schedule in paragraph (a) above.
On the first day of the workweek following the employee’s successful completion of the training program he will receive the standard
rate.
A-1.05 Employees who successfully complete the Manitoba Provincial Training Program for Journeymen shall be paid the rate for the respective Journeyman classification set forth in Appendix “A”. Progression to the Journeyman rate shall be in increments equal to the difference between the employee’s hourly rate at the time of entry into the training program and the respective Journeyman hourly rate divided by the number of training levels contained in the training program. The rate adjustment shall be effective upon return to work following successful completion of each level of training.
A-1.06 An employee entering the Stockroom Clerk Classification shall begin at the Group II rate for training. Upon satisfactory completion of a six (6) month training period, the employee shall receive the contract rate.
A-1.07 Operators who train other employees are to
66
receive twentj. five cents (SO.25) per hour for ail time spent training said employees.
APPENDIX lB’
B-l .01 The Union and the Company mutually agree, that the practice of scheduling a compressed work week for employees in a Maintenance Department classification shall continue. It is further agreed that such scheduling may affect one or more Maintenance classifications at any one time, and that such practices, if in effect, may with reason (e.g. operational efficiency, economics, 01 improvements to maintenance services) be discontinued entirely or in part upon the written notice of either party to the other. The Company will do its’ utmost to satisfy employee preference. however, the needs of the business must take priority. Any employee affected by discontinuing a compressed work schedule shall be reassigned to work in accordance with Section 6 of the Collective Agreement.
When a Maintenance Department employee is working on a compressed work week schedule, it
is agreed that:
1.	Section 6. I of the Collective Agreement shall not apply with the exception of the definition of the plant’s work week. In lieu of the balance of Section 6.1, the employee shall be compensated on a straight time basis or all hours worked except as provided below:
a)	Working hours scheduled on a holiday.
b)	Working hours scheduled on a Saturday oi
Sunday, except where a continuous shift operation (seven days per week) is in effect.
c)	Work assignment that would cause an
employee to work seven (7) consecutive days
67
in a work week
d)	Any assigned hours worked in excess of twelve (12) hours in a day.
e)	Any assigned hours worked in excess of the hours scheduled as an employee’s regular week.
2.	Section 6.2 shall not apply.
Section 6.3 shall apply.
4. Section 6.4 shall apply.
Section 6.5 shall apply.
6. Section 6.6 shall apply.
7. Section 6.7 shall apply.
Section 6.8 shall apply.
9.	Section 6.9 shall apply.
10.	Section 6.10 shall apply.
11.	Section 6.1 I shall apply.
12.	Section 6.12 shall apply.
13.	Section 6.13 shall apply.
14.	Section 6.14 shall apply.
15.	Section 6. IS shall apply.
16.	Section 6.16 shall apply.
17.	Section 7, Night Premium, shall be computed and applied to Maintenance employees working on a compressed work week in accordance with the following:
a) The amount shall be determined by multiplying 8 times the amount of the second shift premium plus 8 times the amount of the third shift premium, the sum of which shall be
68
divided by 12
b) The amount as determined by (a) above
only may be applied to the hours an employee works between 8 p.m. and 8 a.m.
18.	If any other portion of the plant goes to ten (IO) or twelve (12) hour shifts by mutual agreement, the Union and the Company agree that Appendix B with appropriate amendments for ten (10) hour shifts (if the changes are to ten (10) hour shifts) will apply.
69
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
During the course of negotiations the parties discussed certain issues relating to efficient and safe factory operations. in regard to these issues the parties agreed to cooperate as follows:
Plant Floor Communication
Effective and safe operations depends upon clear and complete communication between supervisory and hourly employees. Specifically it was agreed that supervisors, operators and relief operators should property log process adjustments and keep one another mutually informed. In addition regular operators should be advised of adjustments made in their absence.
These efforts will foster workplace safety and avoid production waste.
Shop. Floor Concerns
The parties agree that it is essential that safety and operating concerns be raised and dealt with in a proper fashion. For this to work employees must be encouraged to bring matters to the attention of their supervisors and/or other responsible individuals (e.g. Health and Safety Committee members, managers, steward, etc.).
Training rams
The Company agrees to meet with the Union Executive each October and April to discuss current training measures and solicit suggestions from the Executive that would assist with training.
For the Union	For the Company
This Letter of Understanding shall expire as of September 30, 2001 but be subject to renewal thereafter if mutually
agreed.
70
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
Re: Irrigation Personnel
Irrigation Personnel are defined as persons working on the irrigation project and all associated equipment.
The Irrigation Operator rates will apply only when irrigation personnel are actually assigned to the irrigation project.
All “Irrigation Personnel” are excluded from all provisions under Sections 6, 7 and 9:3 of Section 9. Such exclusions will be allowed only when Irrigation Personnel are performing irrigation duties. Under Section 10 “Vacations”, vacation pay for each week of vacation will be based on the employee’s weekly rate at the time of taking vacation.
For the Union	For the Company
D. DZIEWIT	A. OROFIAMMA
DATE: May 15, 1997 DATE: May 7, 1997
This Letter of Understanding shall expire as of September 30, 2001 but be subject to renewal thereafter if mutually agreed.
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING Re: Apprenticeship Letter
By copy of this letter the Union is assured that should any employee decide to upgrade their skills base by means of an approved apprenticeship program, (lie Company is prepared to provide the individual with a letter confirming any hours worked in the related trades Held while in om employ.
In order to comply with the above, employees arc expected to notify the Company prior to registering for any apprenticeship program
It is clearly understood that the above applies only in cases where enrollment in an apprenticeship program was initiated by the employee and was not endorsed by the Company.
71
For the Union  
For the Company
A.
DA	.
This Apprenticeship Letter shall expire as of September 30, 2001, but be subject to renewal thereafter if mutually
agreed.
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
Re: Contracting out consultation
This letter shall be implemented on the date of ratification and shall operate for a trial period of six (6)
months.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Article 4.6, whenever reasonably practical, except in cases where the committee has previously agreed otherwise prior to the contracting out of work that is normally performed by bargaining unit members, a committee consisting of equal numbers of management and Union members (to a maximum of three (3) members each) will meet to discuss the contracting out option. This committee will attempt to make recommendations to the Company on the issue in terms of whether or not the work should be contracted out, together with any reasonable alternatives, taking into account the Company’s requirements concerning quality, the time-lines within which the project must be completed and the need for the work to be completed at a competitive cost.
The Company will give full consideration to the recommendations of the committee on contracting out issues, and if these recommendations are not accepted, shall communicate the reasons for the decision to the committee. The Campany’s decision to contract out shall be posted.
Following completion of the work, the committee will meet to assess the work in terms of quality, time-lines and cost together with any other relevant factors.
72
At the end of the six (6) months trial period, the parties may agree to:
1.	extend the trial period
2.	modify the terms of the letter
3.	discontinue the letter.
For the Union	For the Company
D. DZIEWIT	A. OROFIAMMA
DATE: May 15. 1997	DATE: May 7, 1997
This Letter of Understanding shall expire as of September 30, 2001, but be subject to renewal thereafter if mutually
agreed.
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
Re: Gainsharing Program
The parties agree on the importance of recognizing employees for success at the factory.
In saying that, a Gainsharing Program, to replace the Nestle Bonus Plan in 1997 and each year thereafter, will be developed and will Include the following measurement tools:
1.	percent of standards produced
2.	first pass quality
3.	safety
4.	costs
any any other relevant measurement tool(s)
The Gainsharing Program will pay out up to 4% of yearly earnings (maximum 2080 hours) if the measurement criteria, as described above, are exceeded. That is the Program must make money before it can pay out.
A joint committee will be formed to develop the Gainsharing Program, with the above criteria as the basic measurement tools. The committee will meet as soon as possible after ratification to endeavour to fully develop the Plan in a short period of lime. The Plan that is developed will be sent to the Sr. V.P. Human Resources. Sr. V.P. Operations and President, Foodservices for final approval.
73
For the Union
D. DZIEW1T DATE: May IS, 1997
For the Company
A.
DA	.
This Letter of Understanding shall expire as of September 30, 2001, but be subject to renewal thereafter if mutually
agreed.
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING Re: Granting Of Time Off
The Company and the Union discussed the problems associated with granting additional time off due to the difficulties in replacing employees. In saying theat, the Company agrees that the Steering Committee will meet on or about August 1, 1997 to discuss the success of the application of the Letter of Understanding RE: Relief Operators. The August 1, 1997 deadline allows the Training Department time to satisfy the necessary training requirements of such position.
If the application of the Relief Operators has had a favourable impact on the ability of the Company to covei off absences, the Committee will discuss:
1.	6.17 - how to utilize banked overtime
2.	10.2 - how to better allocate vacation days
3.	12. 1(f) (as proposed by the Union) how to utilize
4.	14.5 - how to better fill temporary positions and any other section in the collective agreement that falls within the spirit of this letter.
The objective of the meeting is not to negotiate improved provisions, but rather to explore opportunities to utilize time off.
If the application of the Relief Operators has not had a positive impact on the ability of the Company to cover off absences, then the committee will determine whether oi not a time extension is needed for the Training Department or whether another solution should be considered.
banked overtime
74
For the Union
For the Company
A.
DA	,
This Letter of Understanding shall expire as of September 30, 2001, but be subject to renewal thereafter if mutually a^ved.
J ETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
Re: Work Unit Coordinator Positions
A new classification will be created called Work Unit Coordinator (W.U.C.). Work Unit Coordinators will be entitled to all the provisions in the collective agreement unless specified otherwise.
Incumbents
All employees holding these positions as at the date of ratification will remain in the positions. The seniority of these people will continue to accumulate effective the first of the month closest to the date of ratification; for the time spent out of the bargaining unit until the first of the month closest to the date of ratification, the intent of Section 13.2 will apply. However, for seniority related benefits, length of service with the Company will be used (the total time the employee has worked for the Company).
Qualifications
The Company will develop a ‘position description’ for the Work Unit Coordinator position within thirty days following ratification. This position description will outline the responsibilities of the job as well as the necessary skills, experience and qualifications. The candidates may be tested for literacy and communication skills, numerical skills, technical skills, interpersonal skills. computer aptitude, and problem solving skills. The Union will be provided with a copy of the most current position description, The H.R. Committee will be consulted prior to finalizing the position description. Recruiting
Any vacancies arising in this job will be posted for five
75
(5) working days. The job posting will include the qualifications as developed under the above section
Employees interested in applying for the job must submit a standard resume, developed by the H.R. Committee, to the attention of the Human Resources Committee. The H.R. Committee will interview and assess all applicants, in accordance with a standardized method.
The H.R. Committee will make recommendations to the factory management as to who they feel is the suitable candidate. The factory management will advise the H.R. Committee as to their decision. The H.R. Committee will then advise all applicants as to whether or not they were successful, and if not successful, give the justification Should a successful candidate not be found internally, the Company has the right to advertise the job externally. The Union will also be advised. In this case, the H.R. Committee will still be responsible for the selection process as noted above.
Human Resources Committee The H.R. Committee will be composed of equal numbers of salaried and hourly employees. The Union executive has the right to veto the participation of a unionized employee on the H.R, Committee should they feel the individual is not suitable. The Committee’s function is to recommend to the Steering Committee and/or factory management their decisions. Should their decision not be supported, the H.R. Committee will be notified immediately and given reasons for the decision.
The principles of qualification, recruiting and H.R, Committee shall apply to the Factory Line Trainer position
as well.
For the Union	For the Company
D. DZIEWIT	A. OROFIAMMA
DATE: May 15, 1997	DATE: May 7, 1997
This Letter of Understanding shall expire as of Septembei 30, 200 I, but be subject to renewal thereafter if mutually
agreed.
76
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
RE: SCALEHOUSE PERSONNEL See. 10 ■ Vacation
These employees will have vacation entitlement as of theii latest date of hire.
Sec. 12 - Sick Leave
These employees will start 10 earn sick day credits as of
March 22, 1996.
Sec. 13.1 - Seniority
Seniority will start as of March 22, 1996. Seniority numbei will be awarded in descending order as to the latest date of hire of these employees.
Sec. 13.5 - Layoff
These employees will not be subject to layoff it work is available in the scalehouse. If working at anothci Bargaining Unit position they would be subject to layoffs as per sec. 13.6.
See. 13..9 - Recall
These employees will not be subject to recall as per Sec. 13.9 if work is available in the scalehouse. If being recalled for another Bargaining Unit position they would be subject to recall as per Sec. 13.9.
Sec. 14 - Posting
Present part time Scalehouse Personnel will remain outside the Bargaining Unit and may be used for vacant shifts, however Scalehouse Personnel working at other Bargaining Unit positions must be given first consideration.
See. 28 - Pension
Scalehouse Personnel have entered into the pension plan as of June 1st, 1996.
See. 30 - Severance Pav
These employees wi H be awarded severance pay based on their date of hire.
77
For the Union D. DZIEWIT DATE: May IS, 1997
For the Company
A.
DA	,
This Letter of Understanding shall expire as of Scptembei 30, 2001, but be subject to renewal thereafter if mutually
agreed.
Re: New Category of Operators
A new category of Operators will be developed through posting, People selected by seniority, if available including those on layoff, will be trained for various operator positions in the plant for the following:
1.	emergency relief purposes
2.	to relieve people who are successful candidates for
cross-training as described in section 14.6
3.	relief for vacations
4.	relief for banked time or other paid leave time thirty (30) days or less unless there are no other trained operators available.
The training these people receive will not be listed in the training manual and they will therefore not be considered as “already qualified” if they apply for a future
posting.
If an Operator’s position requires overtime, the current practice for selection still applies. If one of the regular operators are not available to work, the overtime may be given to the senior relief operator.
This section is intended to enable cross-training to take place, till absences and alleviate overtime.
For the Union	For the Company
D. DZIEWIT	A. OROFIAMMA
DATE: May 15, 1997	DATE: May 7, 1997
This Letter of Understanding shall expire as of Septembei 30, 2001, but be subject to renewal thereafter if mutually
agreed.
78
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
LETTER Op UNDERSTANDING RE: WATCH PERSONNEL
This letter shall pertain to those employed as Watch Personnel (those employees who become part or the Bargaining Unit as op the 24th op February, 1 997).
Sec. 10 - Vacation
These employees will have vacation entitlement as or their latest date or hire.
Sec. 12. - Sick Leave
These employees will start to earn sick day credits as op the 14th °r February, 1997.
Sec, 13.1 - Seniority
Seniority will start as of the 24th of February, 1997. Seniority number will be awarded in descending order as to the latest dale or hire op these employees.
Sec. 13.5 - Layoff
These employees will not be subject to layoff if work is available in this position. If working at another bargaining unit position, they would be subject to layoff as per Sec. I 3 5 or the collective agreement.
Sec. 13.9 - Recall
These employees will not be subject to recall as per Sec 13.9 if work is available in this position. If being recalled for another bargaining unit position, they would be subject to recall as per Sec 1.9 or the collective agreement.
Sec. 28 • Pension
Watch Personnel will enter the pension plan os follows Lome Sparrow I Feb., I 994 Donald Dutliie - I Nov., 1997 Spencer Aldwinkle I Feb., 1998 Harry Jackson I Feb., I 998 Kenneth Emerson ‘ Feb 1998
Sec. 30 ■ Severance Pay
These employees will be awarded severance pay based on
79
the latest date of hire.
Appendix A ■ Wages
Wage will be as a Group III, with Lead Hand SI.00 per hour over group rate.
For the Union	For the Company
D. DZIEWIT	A. OROFIAMMA
DATE: May 15, 1997	DATE: May 7, 1997
This Letter of Understanding shall expire as of September 30. 2001. but be subject to renewal thereafter if mutually agreed.
80