CONTENTS
ARTICLE
PAGE
1.	Recognition
2.	No Strike or Lock-Out
3.	Reservation to Management
4.	Seniority
5.	Vacancies and Job Posting
6.	Work Clothing & Safety Shoes
7.	Hours of Work
8.	Overtime
9.	Paid Statutory Holidays
10.	Pay Day
11.	Temporary Assignments
12.	Safety and Health
13.	Vacations
14.	Grievance Procedure
and Arbitration
15.	Deduction of Union Dues
16.	Membership Maintenance
17.	Miscellaneous
18.	Health and Welfare
19.	Job Classification and
Wage Rates
20.	Cost of Living Allowance
21.	Training Programmes
22.	Transfer of Operations
23.	Effective Date and Duration
of Agreement Wage Rates Appendix A Letters of Intent Seniority List Company Rules
2
3
3
6
9
11
11
13
16
18
18
20
20
23
25
26 27 29
31
32
33
33
34 36-39 40-43 44-64 65-70 71-73
Expiry: January 31, 1990
THIS AGREEMENT ratified as of November 16, 1987 by and between
NESTLE, A DIVISION OF NESTLE ENTERPRISES LIMITED, (CHESTERVILLE FACTORY)
Hereinafter called the “COMPANY”
and
RETAIL, WHOLESALE AND DEPARTMENT STORE UNION, LOCAL 488,
chartered by the Retail, Wholesale & Department Store Union
(A.F.L.-C.I.O.-C.L.C.), hereinafter called the “UN ION”.
WITNESSETH: Whereas it is considered to be the mutual interest and is the desire of the parties here to co-operate fully, individually and collectively to operate the plant of the Company at Chesterville, Ontario, so as to promote the safety and welfare of the employees, economy of operation, elimination of waste, quantity and quality of output, cleanliness of plant, and protection of property. Now therefore, it is mutually agreed as follows:
1
ARTICLE 1 Recognition
(a)	This Agreement covers and relates to employees of the Company working at the Chesterville, Ontario, Plant exclusive of the following:
(1)	Regular Office or Clerical employees and Security Guards.
(2)	Foremen and those above the rank of Foreman, including the Plant Superintendent and Assistant Superintendent, Fieldman, Chief Chemist, Chief Engineer, and Assistant Chief Engineers.
(3)	All employees, mechanics, erectors, etcetera, temporarily engaged in construction and erection work, whether on salary or hourly basis.
(b)	Temporary or new employees who are employed for less than ninety (90jl/vorking days in any one year shall not be regarded as within the scope of this Agreement, unless mutually agreed upon by both parties, but shall be required to pay the equivalent of regular monthly Union dues.
(c)	New employees may be hired at a rate, five (5) percent below the applicable classification for a period not to exceed ninety (90) working days. Increases up to the relative classification rate and promo-
2
tions to any classification may be made on the basis of qualifications at any time during this period.
ARTICLE 2
No Strike or Lock-Out
The Company agrees there will be no lock-out and the Union agrees there will be no strike, so long as this Agreement continues to operate.
ARTICLE 3
Reservation to Management
(a)	Subject to the provisions of this Agreement, the Union recognizes the right of the Company to hire, promote, transfer and, for just cause, to demote, suspend or otherwise discipline an employee. It shall also be considered the right of the Company to discharge any employee for good cause, upon one week’s notice or one week’s pay in lieu of notice, except that the Company reserves the right to discharge without notice or pay in lieu of notice, for any one of the following causes; dishonesty, absence without leave, discourtesy, direct refusal to obey orders, or flagrant violation of Company rules. In the event of a Union member being dismissed a senior member of the Union Executive is to be notified within one (1) day, or as soon as conveniently possible.
3
(b)	The Union further recognizes the undisputed right of the Company to operate and manage its business in all respects in accordance with its obligations and pursuant to its policies, and to make and alter from time to time, rules and regulations to be observed by employees, which rules and regulations shall not be inconsistent with the provisions of this Agreement
(c)	The Employer and the Union shall not discriminate against employees with respect to terms or conditions of employment on the grounds of race, creed, colour, age, sex, marital or parental status, union membership or activity, family relationship, political affiliation, or sexual orientation except as provided by the Ontario Rights Code.
(d)	Non-bargaining unit salaried employees of the Company shall not be permitted to perform bargaining unit work except in the following situations:
1.	Instructing employees in the proper use of tools, equipment, or other job tasks;
2.	Product experimentation and production trials with the assistance of bargaining unit employees as required;
3.	Acting to prevent an accident or
4
injury, or damage or loss to product or equipment;
4.	When casual performance of work expedites production or until a regular employee is available.
5.	The Company may at any time employ men in each department who are learning the business and are bona fide apprentices for executive positions, provided, however, that such apprentices shall not displace the regular employees. These apprentices shall not be eligible to join the Union.
(e)	Production Related Work
Prior to the initial contracting out of production related work the Company will consult with the Union to show why such work cannot be as economically performed by bargaining unit employees as by contracting out.
(f)	Maintenance Work
The Company will not contract out maintenance work while suitably qualified maintenance employees are on lay-off provided that it is practical and cost-competitive to use Company maintenance employees.
With respect to practicality and cost-5
competitiveness consideration is given to such factors as:
•	does the Company have the facilities and equipment to perform the work required.
•	was it necessary to let the contract in advance of knowing whether Company employees would be on lay-off when the work is scheduled to be performed.
•	is the manning required for the work in excess of the Company’s manning in a trade(s).
•	is the cost with use of Company personnel lower or, if not, is the cost disadvantage marginal and therefore offset by advantages of using Company personnel.
•	will the contractual notice requirements make the use of Company personnel cost prohibitive.
ARTICLE 4 Seniority
(a)	Seniority shall be recognized by the Company and shall be based on the length of continuous service of employees with the Company.
6
(b)	Seniority shall be effective only after an employee has been employed on a permanent basis for a period of ninety (90) working days, and in the event of previous employment by the Company, his seniority shall be computed from the date on which he re-entered the employ of the Company, due regard being given to Clause (e) in this Article.
(c)	Seniority lists shall be prepared by the Company and a copy supplied to the Executive of the Union and posted on the bulletin board within thirty (30)days of the effective date of the contract and each six (6) months thereafter.
(d)	In the case of lay-off or reemployment the seniority of employees permanently in the affected classification shall govern provided the senior employee possesses sufficient skill and ability to perform the job adequately. Employees displaced from their permanent classification shall bump into available general labour work provided they have the seniority.
(e)	Seniority and employment shall terminate when an employee:
1.	Voluntarily resigns.
2.	Is discharged and is not reinstated through the grievance procedure or arbitration.
7
3.	Has been absent due to lay-off for
twelve (12) months.
Credited seniority shall be retained and continue to accumulate for the initial twenty-four (24)months of absence due to illness or accident at which point seniority will be frozen.
(f)	Employees with three (3) or more years seniority shall be given seven (7) days notice of lay-off or pay in lieu thereof, and employees with less than three (3) years seniority shall be given twenty-four (24) hours notice of lay-off or pay in lieu thereof. For purposes of this paragraph (f) pay in lieu of notice will be eight (8)hours per day at the employees regular rate. Notice cf layoff shall not be required in the event of a power failure of more than four (4) hours. In the event of a major mechanical breakdown or an Act of God employees will be given twenty-four (24) hours notice of lay-off.
(g)	Employees will be given forty-eight (48) hours notice of recall from lay-off whenever possible.
(h)	The Company will make three (3) attempts to contact the employee by telephone, at the last given telephone number, over a period of not less than seven and one-half (71/2) hours. If no contact is made with the employee, the next senior employee qualified to perform the
a
job will be recalled. The Company will send a recall notice, by registered mail to the employee passed over, at the last given address. The employee shall contact the Company immediately upon receipt of the notice and will be assigned his shift which will allow twenty-four (24) hours notice of lay-off to be given to the junior employee who replaced him.
(i)	Under the above circumstances the junior employee shall have no claim to more than twenty-four (24) hours notice of lay-off.
(j)	If an employee on lay-off is recalled to work to replace an employee who is absent due to illness, accident, bereavement, personal emergency or vacation where the employee has made the request less than one week before the start of a day or days vacation other than a full week, or more, the recalled employee will be given as much notice of lay-off as possible with minimum notice of 24 hours.
(k)	The Company may grant leave of absence to any employee, at its discretion, without pay, but without loss of seniority for a period not exceeding twelve (12) months unless otherwise arranged by the Company and the Union.
ARTICLE 5
Vacancies and Job Posting
9
Vacancies, new positions, or temporary assignments of more than ten (10) working days duration shall be posted on the bulletin board immediately for a period of three (3) working days. Employees are permitted to bid for appointments thereto. The Company may temporarily fill any such job until the appointment is made, for a maximum period up to ten (10) working days. Only the original vacancy and the first three
(3)	vacancies arising therefrom need be posted. No employee may bid again for six (6) months after a successful bid into a permanent classification. In filling vacancies, new positions, and posted temporary assignments, seniority shall govern, provided the senior employee possesses sufficient skill and ability to perform the job adequately. The decision of the Company as to the successful applicant will be given to the Union Executive prior to appointments being made. If an employee bids on a classified job and does not remain on that job he shall have the opportunity to step down to general labour, provided his seniority permits such a change.
Regular employees promoted to a higher classification shall be considered as on trial for a period not exceeding sixty (60) working days during which time they may be paid five (5) cents under the classification rate.
The Company shall determine and provide the training required when an employee successfully posts into a new j°b.
10
ARTICLE 6
Work Clothing and Safety Shoes
The Company agrees to supply and launder overalls, coveralls, shirts, pants, smocks and gloves where required. The overalls, coveralls, shirts, pants, smocks and gloves shall be considered the property of the Company. Employees shall have the option of a singlet style shirt or‘T’ shirt upon replacement of worn out shirts.
The Company will pay employees fifty-five ($55)dollars towards the cost of Company approved safety shoes (effective February 1, 1989, sixty-five ($65) dollars) once each calendar year upon proof of purchase.
Employees requiring prescription eyeglasses will be reimbursed up to twenty dollars ($20) to cover the cost of special lenses on replacement of eyeglasses.
ARTICLE 7 Hours of Work
(a)	A work week will consist of forty (40) hours between 0001 hours Sunday to 2400 hours Saturday midnight.
(b)	Every employee shall have at least one Sunday off in four the year round except in case of emergency in the sole opi-n ion of the Management. The Management will bend every effort to rotate Sunday work.
11
(c)	Should an employee be unable to report for work, the Management or Department Foreman must be advised, stating reason at least two (2) hours prior to the starting time of his scheduled shift wherever possible.
(d)	Should an employee have to take a day off for personal reasons, he is required to inform his Department Foreman or Management at least two (2) days ahead, to obtain permission except in the case of a justifiable emergency.
(e)	In cases of absenteeism and reporting late, the Company may impose any penalty which is considered reasonable to prevent a recurrence of such conduct. The Company will consult the Grievance Committee regarding any such penalty.
(f)	An employee who is injured during his regularly scheduled shift and who, in the opinion of the Company, requires further medical treatment outside the plant will be reimbursed at his regular rate cf pay for any lost time during the balance of that shift.
(g)	Operating engineers covered by this agreement will have a special 12 hour shift arrangement as detailed in a separate Letter of Intent, it is intended that this agreement will not be withdrawn without mutual consent of the parties.
(h)	An employee will be given the oppor-
12
tunity to complete eight (8) hours of work when:
1.	He has been given short notice of recall for replacement provided there are operations in the factory for the eight (8) hour period.
2.	When his shift is terminated prior to the normal ending time.
The above shall not apply in the event of a power failure of more than four (4) hours. In addition an employee may be assigned any available work to complete his eight (8) hour shift.
(i)	Work schedules for production departments shall be posted each Thursday, as is current practice. It is understood that such schedules are subject to change after posting.
ARTICLE 8 Overtime
(a)	Overtime, at the rate of time and one-half the employee’s regular rate, will apply: in excess of eight (8) hours work in any one day or shift,
or, in excess of forty (40) hours per week,
or, on the sixth (6th) day of work in the work week, whichever is greatest.
13
(b)	Week-end Premiums — All work done on Saturday shall be paid at the rate of time and one-half the employee’s regular rate of pay, Sunday work shall be paid for at twice the employee’s regular rate of pay. Such premiums shall not be paid concurrently with overtime worked on the premium days. When there is unauthorized absence by an employee in the particular work week, the week-end premium shall be paid at straight time for the number of hours to be absorbed.
(c)	Overtime so far as practicable, shall be distributed evenly among employees and shall be voluntary provided that an adequate work force is available to maintain production levels. Employees may be required to work overtime and shall be given four (4) hours notice as far as possible, and when necessary employees shall be assigned to work overtime in reverse order of seniority.
(d)	An employee shall not be required to suspend work during regular hours to absorb overtime.
(e)	Any employee who has completed his shift for the day and has left the plant and is required to return to work prior to his scheduled starting time shall be paid at the overtime rate for those hours worked with a minimum payment of three (3) hours. Time so worked shall not be included in his
14
scheduled shift of that day for the purpose of overtime calculation.
(f)	A shift bonus of forty six (46) cents per hour (effective Februaryl, 1989, forty eight (48) cents per hour) shall be paid as follows and shall be added after the calculation of any overtime or premium rate:
To all employees working on scheduled afternoon or night shifts.
I n any case shift bonus shall not apply before 1400 hours or after 0800 hours.
To other employees on all work between the hours of 1800 hours and 0600 hours.
(g)	The Company agrees to minimize work as much as possible on Sundays and Holidays.
(h)	Where one or more Statutory Holidays occur in any one work week, each such Holiday shall reduce the work week by eight (8) hours for purposes of overtime rate calculation, provided that no unauthorized time is taken off in that particular work week.
(i)	In the event that an employee is required temporarily to change his regularly scheduled shift and is notified of this change less than twenty-four (24) hours prior to the start of his rescheduled shift
15
he shall be paid at the overtime rate for the first shift of the change. It is agreed that these provisions shall not apply to shift changes resulting from personal time off, scheduling difficulties beyond the control of the Company, schedule changes to avoid lay-offs, and Acts of God.
For the purposes of this paragraph a change in a regularly scheduled shift shall mean a displacement of a period of more than one and one-half (IV2) hours from the starting and ending time of the regularly scheduled shift.
(j)	An employee who is required to continue at work for a minimum period of four
(4)	hours following the completion of his regular shift will be provided with a $4.75 meal allowance (effective February!, 1989, $5.00). For purposes of determining eligibility for the meal allowance any time taken for authorized breaks during the overtime period will be considered a part of the four (4) hours, provided the employee does not leave the factory.
(k)	Notwithstandingthe above provisions of this Article 8 employees may elect to accumulate (‘bank’) overtime and take equivalent time-off in lieu of over-time payment subject to the conditions and procedures agreed to by the parties.
ARTICLE 9
Paid Statutory Holidays
16
It is agreed that New Year’s Day, Good Friday, Victoria Day, Canada Day, Civic Holiday, Labour Day, Thanksgiving Day, Christmas Day, Boxing Day and four (4)Ad-ditional Holidays, the dates of which the Company shall announce in January of each year, are to be recognized and enjoyed, and employees paid their regular rate of pay. Should an employee be required to work on such days, he shall be paid time and one-half his regular rate of pay for all time worked, over and above his straight Holiday pay. It is agreed that if the Government of Ontario or Canada declares a Statutory Holiday other than the Holidays named in this Article 9, one of the Additional Holidays referred to in this Article 9 shall be designated as that Holiday. In order to qualify for Statutory Holiday pay, an employee must be on the payroll a minimum of ninety (90) working days before the Statutory Holiday, and be on duty the day before and the day after as and if required.
It is agreed between the parties that payment to employees on lay-off for the Statutory Holidays referred to in this Article 9 shall be made as specified in this Article. The employees on lay-off who would otherwise be entitled to Statutory Holiday pay will be paid for the next Holiday (or Holidays if they are consecutive) following the date of lay-off, provided the employee worked the last shift assigned to him,
which must have been after the preceding
Statutory Holiday, and the next shift 17
assigned to him following the Statutory Holiday for which he is paid.
Employees who are absent as a result of sickness or a personal injury shall be entitled to Holiday pay for a period of six (6) months, but a Doctor’s certificate may be required at any time by the Company.
ARTICLE 10 Pay Day
(a)	Unless otherwise mutually agreed upon pay periods shall be on a weekly basis with the date being Thursday except where there is a mechanical breakdown in which case the pay day may be Friday if necessary. In the event of a pay date falling on a holiday the pay date shall be the preceding date except in case, or cases of emergency over which the Company has no control. The occurence of one or more statutory holidays in a pay week may necessitate a Friday pay day.
ARTICLE 11
Temporary Assignments
(a)	Where an employee is assigned to work at lower than his classified occupation for a period of sixty (60) working days, thereafter he will receive the rate of pay applying to the work he is performing, for the duration of his assignment, but this will not apply to employees on training programs.
18
(b)	An employee, who works regularly for one hour or more per day in a higher classification than his own, will receive the rate for the number of hours worked in that classification.
(c)	Where an employee has bid into a temporary assignment position he shall receive the applicable rate only while working on that assignment, and shall revert to the General Labour rate when so employed. If he does not work in the temporary assignment position for sixty (60) working days he will no longer hold the temporary assignment classification.
(d)	Where an employee who has bid into a temporary assignment position works at that position for a minimum of sixty (60) working days in any 12 month period, he shall be considered as permanent in the position.
(e)	Where an Engineer 3rd Class is per-formimg the function of an Engineer 2nd Class, and is permitted to do so by Government regulation, he shall be paid a premium of fifty (50) cents per hour while so employed. Where a Foreman is absent for one (1) day or more and where a Lead Hand is appointed by the Company to perform the Foreman’s function the Lead Hand shall be paid a premium of fifty (50) cents per hour while so employed.
19
ARTICLE 12 Safety and Health'
The Company shall continue to make reasonable provision for the safety and health of its employees at the plant during the hours of their employment, in providing adequate first aid essentials, washrooms equipped with wash basins and toilets, drinking water facilities, and a suitable lunchroom. The employees will co-operate in keeping all such facilities clean and sanitary, and any violation of this requirement will be subject to discipline.
ARTICLE 13 Vacations
(a)	A vacation with pay will be granted only if an employee has completed twelve (12) complete months of continuous service. Vacation schedules shall be worked out on a basis which will not impair the operation of the plant.
(b)	Vacations with pay will be granted according to the following schedule:
12 months service, but less than 5 years — 2 weeks
5 years service, but less than 10 years — 3 weeks
10 years service, but less than 19 years — 4 weeks
20
19 years service, but less than 29 years — 5 weeks 29 years or more — 6 weeks
For purposes of determining service for vacation entitlement the employees seniority as specified in Article 4 of the Agreement shall be used.
(c)	Where an employee is entitled to two
(2)	or three (3) weeks vacation one (1) week of these vacations shall be taken at the discretion of Management; where an employee is entitled to four (4) weeks of vacation two (2) weeks of these vacations shall be taken at the discretion of Management; where an employee is entitled to five
(5)	weeks, or six (6) weeks vacation, three
(3)	weeks shall be taken at the discretion cf Management. Weeks taken at the discretion of Management will not necessarily be in the summer months unless convenient to plant operations.
(d)	Vacation pay will be calculated as follows:
(1)	For employees with eighteen hundred and forty (1840) hours worked in the preceding calendar year, vacation pay will be the greater of two percent (2%) of his previous calendar year’s earnings per week of vacation entitlement, or forty (40) hours pay at his permanent rate of pay in effect immediately before going on vacation.
21
(2)	Employees who work less than eighteen hundred and forty (1840) hours in the preceding calendar year shall be paid two percent (2%) of the previous calendar year’s earnings for each week of vacation entitlement.
(3)	For purposes of this section (d) only, hours worked will include time lost because of established disability due to illness or injury during which time the employee is receiving Weekly Indemnity or Workmen’s Compensation benefits, time on Company paid vacation, holidays, jury duty, bereavement leave, Union business for which the employee is entitled to normal pay under the terms of this Agreement, at eight (8) hours per day. The year’s earnings will be based on these hours at the employee’s regular rate.
(e)	Vacation time will not be cumulative from year to year and payment of extra wages in lieu of vacation will not be made.
Employees who are entitled to five (5) or six (6) weeks of vacation may elect to bank their sixth (6th) and or fifth (5th) week of entitlement in accordance with the procedure agreed to by the parties.
(f)	If an employee voluntarily leaves the service of the Company, he will receive vacation pay by cheque, based on 4, 6, 8,
22
10 or 12 percent, dependent on his service at date of termination.
(g)	It is understood and agreed that an employee already on lay-off, will not be required to take vacation during lay-off.
ARTICLE 14
Grievance Procedure and Arbitration
(a)	Employees through their stewards shall have the right to submit at any time, on the prescribed grievance form, any grievance involving any controversy, complaint, misunderstanding, or dispute, arising from the Collective Agreement, to the Foreman of the department. A meeting shall be held within three (3) working days of the time of the alleged violation. The Foreman shall give an answer in writing on the prescribed grievance form, within two (2) working days.
(b)	If the grievance remains unsettled the grievance form shall be submitted to the Department Superintendent within five (5) working days. The Department Superintendent with the Manager, Industrial Relations, shall meet with the committee within two (2) working days and the Department Superintendent shall give his answer in writing within a further two (2) working days.
(c)	If the grievance remains unsettled a
23
meeting shall be arranged between the Grievance Committee and the Factory Manager or his representative within three (3) working days or such longer time as may be mutually agreed upon and the Company representative shall give his reply in writing within a further two (2) working days.
(d)	If the Grievance remains unsettled it shall be submitted to arbitration in the following manner. Within ten (10) days of the conclusion of the previous step the Company and the Union shall select an arbitrator and in the case of disagreement, both parties shall submit a joint request to the Minister of Labour of the Province of Ontario to furnish a panel of five (5) qualified and available arbitrators. Upon receipt of the panel of names, representatives of the Company and Union shall meet and proceed to select the arbitrator. Failing a mutual selection, the parties shall each, beginning with the Union, strike alternately, one name at a time, two names from the panel. The one then remaining name shall be the arbitrator and such selection shall be final and binding upon the Company and the Union. The expense of the arbitrator, if any, shall be shared equally by the parties hereto.
(e)	The arbitrator appointed as above, shall not have any jurisdiction to alter or change any of the provisions of this Agreement or to substitute any new provision in lieu
24
thereof nor to give any decision inconsistent with the terms and provisions of this Agreement.
(f)	It is understood that in order to be considered by the Company, an employee’s grievance must be lodged with the Company as in paragraph (a)of this Article 14, within three (3)working days of the time of the alleged violation.
(g)	An employee who is suspended or dismissed shall have his case dealt with in accordance with the procedure prescribed in the preceding paragraphs of this Article and, if found wrongly suspended or dismissed, he shall be reinstated to his previous status and paid for the time lost.
(h)	It is understood and agreed between the parties that the failure by either party to observe any cf the time limits set forth in this Article 14 shall be deemed to be a settlement in favour of the other party unless both parties have mutually agreed to an extension of the time limits. It is further agreed that Section 44 (6) of the Ontario Labour Relations Act shall not apply.
ARTICLE 15
Deduction of Union Dues
Upon written authorization of an individual member of the Union, the Com-
25
pany agrees to deduct monthly dues, in the amount stipulated on the authorization form from such individual’s pay. This deduction shall be made for each current month; any and all dues so collected shall be delivered to the Financial Secretary of the Union by the first (1st) day of the succeeding month. No deduction of dues shall be made in any period in which the total amount earned in excess of all deductions required by law is not sufficient to cover the full amount. In such cases the dues shall be deducted at the next regular dues deduction period in which sufficient earnings are payable to cover such deductions.
ARTICLE 16
Membership Maintenance
(a)	It is understood that all eligible employees who, at the date of this Agreement, are members in good standing in the Union, in accordance with its Constitution and By-Laws, shall as a condition of further employment, remain members of the Union during the life of this Agreement.
(b)	All eligible new employees shall, as a condition cf employment, become members of the Union within (90) working days from the date of their employment and shall remain members of the Union in good standing during the life of this Agreement.
26
(c)	Eligible new employees shall, upon completion of ninety (90) working days, be required by the Company to sign a Union Membership application form and authorize the deduction of the initiation fee from the next following pay. The fees so collected together with the application forms shall be forwarded to the Union by the first (1st) day of the succeeding month.
ARTICLE 17 Miscellaneous
(a)	It shall be permissible for Shop Stewards to enter any department of the plant provided permission of the Management has been secured in advance.
(b)	The Union shall be permitted to post notices pertaining to Union business on the Notice Board supplied by the Company for that purpose and such other notices as may be approved by Management.
(c)	Amendments to this Agreement may be negotiated by the parties at any time by mutual consent, but failure to agree shall not constitute a grievance nor be submitted to Arbitration.
(d)	Female employees, who come within the bargaining unit, are subject to all the stipulations so specified in this Agreement.
27
(e)ln the event an employee loses time through jury duty, the Company will pay the difference between “Jury Duty Pay” and the wages lost for scheduled working time lost. Payment will be calculated at eight (8) hours per day at the employee’s last approved base rate.
(f)	In the event of a death in the employee’s family bereavement leave will be granted as follows:
(1)	A leave of absence of five (5) days with pay will be granted if the employee’s spouse dies;
(2)	A leave of absence of up to three (3) days will be granted if a member of the employee’s immediate family (parent, child, sister, brother, grandparents, parents-in-law) dies.
(3)	A leave of absence of up to one (1) day ((3) days if the employee is attending to funeral arrangements) will be granted if the death involves a sister-in-law, brother-inlaw or spouses grandparent.
In the case of leaves under (2) or (3)the absence must fall within the period commencing with the date of death and ending with the day following the funeral. The pay allowance will be calculated at eight (8) hours per day at the employees last approved rate.
28
(g)	The Company shall compensate Union Officers for working time lost through negotiations, grievances and meetings agreed to by the Company. In addition, the Company shall compensate two members of the Union Executive for workingtime lost through attending Arbitration hearings as related to the interpretation and application of this Collective Agreement.
(h)	Records of verbal and, or written warnings shall be removed from the employee’s file if he establishes a clear record for eighteen (18) calendar months.
ARTICLE 18 Health and Welfare
(a) The following benefit plans will be provided consistent with their terms and conditions. The Company will provide the Union with copies of the benefit plan contracts and such plans will not be amended without mutual consent. The Company will pay one hundred percent (100%) of the cost of:
(1)	Ontario Health Insurance Plan.
(2)	A Weekly Indemnity Plan having a benefit of sixty (60) percent cf weekly earnings calculated on the employee’s straight time hourly rate to the unemploy-
29
merit insurance maximum amount, with benefits payable on the first day of accident, first day of sickness if hospitalized or the fourth day of sickness if not hospitalized, and to a maximum period of fifty-two (52) weeks.
(3)	Group Life insurance with coverage of $20,000 per employee.
Additional Life Insurance is available to employees and spouses at the employee’s expense.
(4)	A Dental Plan, Blue Cross No. 7 or equivalent with riders providing for Endon-dontic and Periodontic coverage. The benefits payable under this plan shall be those specified in the O.D.A. Schedule of Fees one year prior to the month in which the benefit claim is incurred.
(5)	A Drug Plan paying the full cost of prescription drugs after a deductible of ten (10) dollars for single employees and twenty-five (25) dollars for family employees.
These payments will be made in the name of each enrolled employee who remains actively employed by the Company. Payments shall also be made for employees who are absent due to illness or accident, and who are in receipt of Weekly Indemnity or Workmen’s Compensation benefits, for a period of 52 weeks from the commencement of these benefits,
30
or until the employee is medically cleared to return to work. Should an employee be on lay-off because of his seniority on the date he is medically cleared to return to work he will receive the benefit continuance as specified in this Article 17 (e)(5), provided the total time does not exceed the 52 week period referred to above. In the case of lay-off employee’s payments for the Ontario Health Insurance Plan, Group Life Insurance, the Dental Plan and the Drug Plan shall be paid for the two (2) months following the month in which the lay-off occurs.
(b)	Effective January 1, 1990 a pension programme will be implemented. The programme will provide retirement benefits as outlined in the parties’ November4th, 1987 Memorandum of Settlement. The pension programme will be outlined in a booklet to be provided to the affected employees.
ARTICLE 19
Job Classification and Wage Rates
(a)	Classification of jobs and occupations, with the corresponding wage rates for the same, are included in the attached Job Classification and Wage Rate Schedule, which is an annex to this Agreement.
(b)	The Company will provide work within
31
an employee’s own classification as far as practical.
(c)	No new classification, or new rates shall be established without written agreement between the Company and the Union.
ARTICLE 20
Cost of Living Allowance (COLA)
Effective February 1,1989 a COLA is implemented based on 1 cent per hour for each .5 increase in the 1971 Consumer Price Index. (C.P.I.)
The allowance for every 3 month period will be based on the average increase in the C.P.I. for that period from the base C.P.I. of January 1989 to the last month of the period being paid for.
The amount of and COLA in effect at any time shall not be incorporated in the wage rates, but shall be paid to each employee on a straight time basis for all hours worked during a3 month period. The COLA shall not be used in computing premium rates of pay or average earnings of any kind. The COLA will be paid as a lump sum payment
as soon after the end of each pay period
as it can be calculated.
The maximum allowance payable during the period February 1,1989 to January 31, 1990 will be 25 cents per hour.
No adjustments shall be made due to any revision that may later be made in the
32
published figures for the C.P.I. for any month on the basis of which the allowance has been determined.
ARTICLE 21 Training Programmes
(a)	The Company may at any time, where no vacancy exists, take the opportunity to train employees for higher classifications at their existing rates of pay. These training positions will be open for classification subject to the conditions of Article 5.
(b)	It is understood and agreed that an employee’s written test will be valid for one year without retesting on subsequent job postings.
ARTICLE 22 Transfer of Operations
I n the event that the Company transfers any of its operations from Chestervilie to another Company owned and operated production facility employees displaced as result of such transfer may elect to take, within one month of the date of the transfer of operations, available jobs at the new location subject to having the required skill and ability.
Employees electing transfer will assume their own relocation costs. Employees will be subject to the conditions of employ-
33
merit (e.g. medical clearance) at the new location and shall be credited with date of entry seniority, except that former service will be retained for service related benefits save and except pension.
Employees will be eligible for an advance of up to $750. to assist with actual relocation expenses. Such advance will be made available at the time of transfer and will be repayable in full no later than two (2) months after the date of transfer.
ARTICLE 23
Effective Date and Duration of Agreement
This Agreement shall be deemed to have come into effect on February 1. 1988 and shall remain in force until January31,1990.
This Agreement shall be automatically renewed from year to year, unless notice by registered mail is given by either party to the other for amendment or termination, not less than two (2) months before the above termination date. If notice in writing is given by either party to the other for amendment, the existing Agreement shall remain in full force and effect until a new Agreement is signed or until the provisions of the Ontario Labour Relations Act have been compiled with.
The Company and the Union will provide each other with their proposed amendments sixty (60) days prior to termination.
34
IN WITNESS WHEREOF each of the parties hereto has caused this Agreement to be signed by its duly authorized representatives as of the 4 day of February, 1988.
For
NESTLE ENTERPRISES LIMITED
E. R. Oke M. G. Duncan J. W. Cummings J. G. Franklin J. G. Dubois
For
RETAIL, WHOLESALE & DEPARTMENT STORE UNION (A.F.L.-C.I.O.-C.L.C.)
James Donnelly
For
RETAIL, WHOLESALE & DEPARTMENT STORE UNION 488 (A.F.L.-C.I.O.-C.L.C.)
Dwayne Hall David Gannon Neil Beckstead Dwayne Iwachniuk
35
w
05
SCHEDULE OF JOB CLASSIFICATIONS AND WAGE RATES Referred to in Article 18(a) of the Agreement between NESTLE ENTERPRISES LIMITED, NESTLE DIVISION CHESTERVILLE, ONTARIO
and
RETAIL, WHOLESALE, AND DEPARTMENT STORE UNION LOCAL 488 Chartered by the Retail, Wholesale and Department Store Union (A.F.L.-C.I.O.-C.L.C.)
CLASSIFICATIONS:
Feb. 1/88 Feb. 1/89 to	to
Jan. 31/89 Jan. 31/90
RATE 1:................................................ $15.06	$15.66
Engineer 3rd Class
RATE 2:...................................................... $14.58
Certified Welder (plus 2 cents per coupon)
Electrician
RATE 3:...................................................... $14.28
Maintenance Mechanic — Class A Instrument Mechanic — Class A Lubricator-Inspector — Class A Carpenter
CO
-j RATE 4: ....................................................... $14.01
Sterilizer Operator Coffee Roasters Operator Coffee Extractor Operator Powder Chamber Operator Quik Tower Operator U.H.T. Process Operator
RATE 5: ..................................................... $13.81
Filler Capper Operator
$15.16
$14.85
$14.57
$14.36
RATE 6:................................................. $13.75
Creamery Department Operator Mixer Operator Filler Operator Capper-Pasteurizer Operator Stock Clerk
Contact Chamber Operator Labeller Operator (Automatic)
Power Truck Operator oo Tote System Operator Transport Spotter Aseptic Filler Operator
RATE 7:.............................................. $13.70
Engineer 4th Class Painter
Capper-Seamer Operator Capper Operator
$14.30
$14.25
RATE 8: .............................................. $13.58
Maintenance Mechanic — Class B Instrument Mechanic — Class B Lubricator Inspector— Class B Coffee Dumper Sugar Unloader Palletizer Operator
RATE 9:............................................... $13.48
Labeller Operator (Semi-automatic) co Quik Packer-Gluer Operator Coffee Unscrambler Operator Cannery Boxer Operator Mini Pudding Sleever Grounds Keeper Buildings & Yards Helper Aseptic Packing Line Operator
RATE 10:.............................................. $13.31
General Labour
Lead Hands minimum Group	4 plus	.53
$14.12
$14.02
$13.84
.55
APPENDIX A
Light Labour Program
It is hereby agreed between the parties that a Light Labour Program will operate in the area of the factory formerly known as the C & B Packing area underthe following terms and conditions:
1.	Light labour program wage rates will be as follows:
Feb.1988	Feb.1989
Light Labour	$7.00/hr.	$7.80
Utility
Operator	$7.75/hr.	$8.06
2.	Work presently performed by regular members of the bargaining unit shall not be transferred to the Light Labour Department.
3.	Work performed in the Light Labour Department will be confined to special packaging (pouch/bag/drum filling); product re-work; inspection; and associated production of the type commonly performed by third-party copackers.
Prior to the introduction of any other type of work there shall be consultation between the parties and mutual consent.
4.	Maintenance work in the Light Labour Department and ancillary services (e.g.
40
supply) between the Light Labour Department and the remainder of the factory will be performed by regular bargaining unit employees.
5.	The workforce for the Light Labour Department shall be employed as a separate group distinct from regular bargaining unit employees.
There shall be a separate seniority list for employees of the Light Labour Department.
6.	In the event the company elects to hire additional employees for regular bargaining unit work such work will first be offered to light labour employees who have completed their probationary period. Such employees will be subject to the standard terms and conditions of employment for newly hired employees including seniority attainment. In the event an individual so employed achieves “regular” seniority he shall be removed from the light labour department seniority list.
7.	In the case of layoff, recall, and job postings, Light Labour Department seniority shall govern provided the employee possesses sufficient skill and ability.
8.	With the following exceptions and modifications the various terms and conditions of the parties Collective
41
Agreement shall apply to employees working in the Light Labour Department.
a)	The probationary period shall be thirty (30) working days.
b)	Employees will be entitled to twenty-four (24) hours notice of lay-off except in the event of a power failure of more than four (4) hours.
c)	Employees shall receive the following overtime premiums:
Time and one-half for hours in excess of forty (40) per week and eight (8) per day.
Time and one-half for all hours worked on Saturday.
Double time for all hours worked on Sunday.
Overtime shall not be pyramided.
d)	Employees shall be eligible for payment of the following statutory holidays in accordance with the provisions of Article 9.
New Year’s Day Good Friday Victoria Day Civic Holiday Canada Day Labour Day Thanksgiving Day Christmas Day Boxing Day
42
e)	The following articles in their entirety shall not be applicable to Light Labour employees:
Articles — 18 — 20 — 22
9.	The parties recognize that for the desired work to be performed in the Light Labour Department the cost of performing the work must be at least as economical as would be the case if the work were performed by an outside party.
10.	It is understood that because of the cost involved in the introduction of equipment, and because of existing contracts with outside producers the introduction of work in the Light Labour Department will be phased in over an indefinite period of time, but as rapidly as profitable opportunities arise that are practical.
43
LETTERS OF INTENT
Re: Technological Change and Stabilized Work Force
In conjunction with and further to the Agreement between Nestle Enterprises Limited (Chesterville Factory) and Retail, Wholesale and Department Store Union, Local 488, dated February 1, 1988 please be advised of the following two items:
1.	The Company agrees to provide notice of a technological change to the union where bargain unit members are affected, and whenever possible at least two months prior to the change.
2.	It is the desire of the Company to maintain a stabilized work force by minimizing lay-offs and recalls to the extent possible.
Dated at Chesterville this 4 day cf February 1988.
Dwayne Hall	M. G. Duncan
For the Union	For the Company
44
Re: I nsulated Jackets
In conjunction with and further to the Agreement between Nestle Enterprises Limited, (Chesterville Factory) and Retail, Wholesale and Department Store Union, Local 488 dated February 1,1988 please be advised that a supply of insulated jackets will be purchased and retained in General Stores. This clothing will be available on loan to be returned daily in the same manner as tools and other equipment are issued.
Dated at Chesterville this 4 day of February, 1988.
Dwayne Hall	M. G. Duncan
For the Union	For the Company
45
Re: 12 Hour Shifts, Operating Engineers
In conjunction with, and further to the provisions of Article 7 (g) of the Agreement between Nestle Enterprises Limited, (Chesterville Factory) and Retail, Wholesale and Department Store Union, Local 488 dated February 1, 1988 it is agreed that the Operating Engineers will continue to work a 12 hour shift.
For purposes of this shift the provisions of Article 8 (a)and(f), and Article 17 (f) and (g), will be amended as follows:
8 (a) Overtime, at a rate of time and one half the employees regular rate, will apply to all hours worked in excess of regularly scheduled hours.
8 (f) Shift bonus shall be added after the calculation of any overtime or premium rate:
To all operating engineers from 16:00
hours to 08:00 hours.
17 (e) In the event an employee loses time through jury duty, the Company will pay the difference between “Jury Duty Pay” and the wages lost for scheduled working time lost.
17 (f) In the event of a death in the employee’s family bereavement leave will be granted as follows:
46
(1)	A leave of absence of forty (40) hours with pay will be granted if the employee’s spouse dies;
(2)	A leave of absence of up to twenty four (24) hours will be granted if a member of the employee’s immediate family (parent, child, sister, brother, grandparents, parents-in-law) dies;
(3)	A leave of absence of up to eight (8) hours, twenty four (24) hours if the employee is attending to funeral arrangements, will be granted if the death involves a sister-in-law, brother-in-law or spouses grandparent.
In the case of leaves under (2) or (3) the absence must fall within the period commencing with the date of death and ending with the day following the funeral.
Dated at Chesterville this 4 day of February, 1988.
Dwayne Hall	M. G. Duncan
For the Union	For the Company
47
Re: Standbv
In conjunction with and further to the Agreement between Nestle Enterprises Limited, (Chesterville Factory) and Retail, Wholesale and Department Store Union, Local 488, dated February 1, 1988 it is agreed that Standby for the Plant Maintenance Department will be in accordance with the procedure dated February 16th, 1984, a copy of which is attached. This procedure will not be amended or terminated without prior consultation with the Union Executive.
Dated at Chesterville this 4 day of February, 1988.
Dwayne Hall	M. G. Duncan
For the Union	For the Company
48
Plant Engineering Department Standby
These instructions are issued to cover the function of “Standby” whereby trained maintenance people are available on short notice to perform emergency type work to keep the factory in production or safe from harm. These instructions supersede any previous agreements and are as follows:
1.	The senior stationary engineer (shift engineer) will act as coordinator, and as such is the representative for the Manager, Factory Engineering.
2.	The shift engineer will inspect all jobs, to determine which trade is required and will call the individual concerned. Minor repairs will be done by the boiler room personnel.
3.	Call-backs of standby personnel must be made from the boiler room office. The standby man must telephone the boiler room to confirm he has received the call-back and to find out what the problem is. The shift engineer must enter in the “call-back’’ book, the name of the man called back, the time and the reason for the call-back.
4.	The maintenance man called back must make a brief note in the space provided in the call-back book, describing what was wrong and what he did
49
to correct the situation. Any additional personnel called in (after consulting with the shift engineer) must also be recorded in the call-back book.
5.	No extra work shall be given to the standby man on call-back if the work can wait until the next regular shift in the estimation of the shift engineer in consultation with the senior production representative.
6.	Standby hours shall be after normal working hours Monday through Friday and during the weekend until normal starting time Monday.
7.	Change over will be 0700 hours Monday.
8.	Standby will be suspended on long weekends wherever possible and on Saturdays and/or Sundays on weekends when production or plant safety will not be compromised. The Manager, Factory Engineering shall determine when standby shall be suspended, but in any case the standby man must be available 6 hours prior to production start-up.
9.	The standby list will be posted in the boiler room and in the shop.
10.	If, due to legitimate absence (ie. sickness), a man on standby is not
50
available during part of his standby week, his foreman will arrange for a suitable replacement and enter the replacement’s name on the standby posting list in the boiler room and the shop.
The man normally scheduled for the week will be paid the standby premium for the week. The replacement will not be paid any premium for any time temporarily posted on standby. However, if called in, the replacement would be paid the appropriate minimum time and rate (call-back). The important thing is to havesomeone to contact in an emergency.
11.	Standby personnel have one half hour to report to the factory after call is made.
12.	The penalty for not reporting or missing a call-back is a two-day forfeit of standby premium: a late arrival is subject to a one-day forfeit.
13.	Overtime will be done by the man on standby unless the work requires some other specialist, or continuity of work requires that men already on the job, complete the job.
14.	Standby premiums will be increased on a yearly basis according with the percentage increase of the union contract from the date of February 1,1988.
51
15.	Standby premium is now $62.00/week for a two shift operation and $99.00/week for a single shift operation, January 31, 1988.
Dated at Chesterville this 4 day cf February, 1988.
Dwayne Hall	M. G. Duncan
For the Union	Forthe Company
52
Non-Continuous Night Shift Arrangement
Effective two (2) weeks after ratification the following arrangement will be tested on a trial basis for a period of six (6) months. This arrangement will apply only to noncontinuous production operations.
1.	The normal shift duration will be established as eight (8) hours versus the current eight and one-half (8V2) hours.
2.	Employees will continue to be granted two (2) paid breaks of fifteen (15) minutes during each shift.
3.	Employees will take their lunch during their paid break periods (as noted in 2 above).
At the end of the trial period the parties will consult regarding the experience with this new arrangement among other matters, consideration will be given to:
Whether employees prefer the new arrangement versus the old.
Has the arrangement led to extension of break times or otherwise negatively impacted on operations.
If either party is dissatisfied with the new arrangement it will be discontinued. Alternatively, the parties may confirm that the new arrangement is preferrable in
53
which case it will be extended for the term of the current agreement.
ADDENDUM
When mutually agreed by the parties the Non-Continuous Night Shift arrangement outlined above will be utilized, by department, giving due consideration to operational matters.
Dated at Chesterville this 4 day of February 1988.
Dwayne Hall	M. G. Duncan
For the Union	For the Company
54
Re: Overtime Bankinq
Furtherto Article 8 (k) of the parties collective agreement the following conditions and procedures shall govern the “banking” of overtime:
1.	That the employee advises their supervisor that they wish to “bank” their overtime at the time of overtime assignment and that such election is irrevocable. The time eligible for banking shall be the work hours in excess of forty (40) hours in a week. The employee must bank all (both straight and premium payment portions) overtime earned on a particular shift with the additional condition that overtime on a given shift must exceed one (1) hour to be eligible for banking.
2.	That time-off in lieu of overtime may only be taken in full-work week periods unless replacement is not required in the opinion of the Company.
3.	That one (1) week notice be given in advance of taking time-off in lieu of overtime payment and that the scheduling of time-off be approved by the Company. The Company may at its discretion waive the one (1) week notice requirement if no replacement is required for the employee.
4.	That banked overtime may not be substituted for vacations.
55
5.	That time-off in lieu of overtime is not considered work time for purposes of statutory holiday entitlement, seniority retention, benefit extension, and other such provisions of the Collective agreement.
6.	Unused “banked” overtime will be paid to the employee at the end of the calendar year.
7.	Pay for “banked” overtime will be at the rate in effect at the time the overtime was banked.
Dated at Chesterville this 4 day of
February, 1988.
Dwayne Hall	M. G. Duncan
For the Union	For the Company
56
Re: Advance Against Weekly Indemnity or Workers’ Compensation Claims
In the event of a delay of over two weeks in the payment of a Weekly Indemnity or Workers’ Compensation claim an employee may be provided with pay advances of $200.00 per week until the respective benefit payments commence, subject to the following conditions:
1.	The period of disability must be a minimum of two weeks.
2.	Two weeks have elasped without benefits having been received from the day the Weekly Indemnity claim is submitted or the Workers’ Compensation Board treatment Memorandum is provided to the employee, and no indication that the claim has been disallowed has been received.
3.	The employee signs an undertaking to repay the advance at the rate of $200.00 per pay through payroll deductions and certifying that he has not received any benefit payment from the Weekly Indemnity plan or Workers’ Compensation. Where an employee has received an advance but has not returned to work prior to the commencement of benefits the advance will be repaid from such benefits. Any advances which can not be recovered from the employee will be
57
repaid to the Company by the Union in full.
Dated at Chesterville this 4 day of February, 1988.
Dwayne Hall	M. G. Duncan
For the Union	For the Company
58
Re: Vacation Banking
The following procedure will apply to the vacation banking option referred to in Article 13 of the parties’ collective agreement:
1.	Elections to bank vacation should be submitted prior to the deadline for vacation scheduling requests. No additional banking of vacation will then be allowed without mutual consent.
2.	Where the collective agreement provides that vaction pay will be based on a percentage of the prior years earnings this amount will be converted to 8 hours of pay at the employee’s regular rate. The result of the conversion will be the number of days to be banked.
Example
An employee eligible for 10% vacation pay has earnings of $15,000. inthe previous year. He elects to bank his “5th week” entitlement. His current rate is $12.00/hr. The banked amount would be 2% of $15,000. divided by $12.00/hr. The banked amount = 25 hours or 3.125 days.
3.	Employees will be advised at year’s end of the amount of vacation which has been banked on their behalf. Once vacation is banked it is “locked in” until
59
retirement, resignation or other form of termination.
4.	Payment for the banked days will be based upon the rate in effect at time of termination. The Company will cooperate to the extent practical and proper to make the payment in the manner the employee feels to be most tax effective.
5.	Where banked vacation becomes payable as a result of death the payment will be made to the deceased employee’s beneficiary as indicated by their life insurance beneficiary designation and in the absence of such beneficiary to their estate.
Dated at Chesterville this 4 day of
February, 1988.
Dwayne Hall	M. G. Duncan
For the Union	For the Company
60
Drug and Alcohol Rehabilitation
Where in the interest of prompt treatment, an employee enters into a recognized drug or alcohol abuse rehabilitation program the company will assist with the program costs provided:
1.	It is the employee’s first such program.
2.	The employee completes all requirements of the program including any after care which may be specified.
The Company’s assistance will be at the rate of 50% of eligible expenses to a maximum outlay of $800.00 after the employee satisfies an initial deductible of $200.00.
Dated at Chesterville this 4 day of February, 1988.
Dwayne Hall	M. G. Duncan
For the Union	For the Company
61
Trial Arrangement — Maintenance Scheduling
The parties hereby agree as follows:
1.	That during the life of the contract the company will refrain from requiring a scheduled day off during weeks where maintenance trade employees are scheduled to work overtime on Saturdays.
And further that during the trial period a Steward appointed by the Union from the Maintenance Department and the Manager Engineering, or his designate, will meet monthly to review the following in comparison to the base period which is established:
—	the level cf overtime being worked
—	alternative approaches to minimizing overtime
2.	The trial period shall commence two (2) weeks subsequent to ratification.
Dated at Chesterville this 4 day of February, 1988.
Dwayne Hall	M. G. Duncan
For the Union	For the Company
62
Early Opening of Negotiations
The parties hereby agree as follows:
Further to Article 22, the parties agree that, five months prior to the expiration of the collective agreement, which expires January 31st, 1990, the parties will commence renegotiation of this agreement. It is further the intent that newly negotiated rates would go into effect immediately upon ratification of a new agreement in lieu of any other type of signing bonus.
Dated at Chesterville this 4 day of February, 1988.
Dwayne Hall	M. G. Duncan
For the Union	For the Company
63
Special Short Term Disability Cases
A fund of $600 per year will be established by the Company to cover disability cases.
A committee formed of two Union Stewards, the Manager Industrial Relations and the Occupational Health Supervisor will review special cases to determine if there is basis for paying benefits at the standard level for those days prior to benefit entitlement under the strict interpretation of the insurance contract.
In the case of “ties” the matter will be resolved in the favour of the employee. If the $600 fund is exhausted the committee will not meet until the next calendar year and no cases will be eligible for special treatment.
Dated at Chesterville this 4 day of February, 1988.
Dwayne Hall	M. G. Duncan
For the Union	For the Company
64
Clock
No.
2251
1991
3603
3213
7111
7112
6199
4978
5178
8699
7610
5355
3253
4616
4918
5337
3401
7052
3303
1429
7929
7949
2049
2661
6139
5138
3808
2335
4815
5168
SENIORITY LIST FACTORY EMPLOYEES
Name
Seniority
Date
Coulthart C. Cameron L.
Hill T.
Genier A. Sharkey M. Sharkey T.
Paul W. McLaughlin G. Merkley L.
York E.
Tupper H.
Moss R.
Gibeault Rolland LeClair R. McCadden E. Morris J.
Hall Dwayne Servage Dwayne Giroux R.
Barkley K. vanGessel C. vanKessel B. Casselman R. Droppo B. Patenaude A. Meldrum R.
Hutt R. Lee Cross Donald Marcellus D. Merkley I.
47/03/24
48/05/17
48/08/11
48/08/21
52/03/24
53/06/08
53/06/09
54/07/11
54/10/06
55/07/07
55/09/02
56/03/08
56/05/27
56/05/28
56/06/25
56/07/03
56/07/25
57/02/04
57/04/05
57/09/03
58/08/21
58/08/21
59/04/16
59/04/16
59/04/16
59/05/12
59/05/23
59/05/25
59/05/25
59/05/25
65
2913
2035
3243
1416
5088
6149
6129
4676
5048
6159
3511
6839
5198
3778
4228
7062
4359
8353
4021
1377
1756
4586
6853
1464
3461
6189
2797
5455
5128
1721
5317
1523
1606
7351
2792
2375
Elliott C.
Cass J.
Gibeault Raymond Barkley Gary McMillan R. Patenaude B. Parker T.
Loucks L.
McMillan Donald Patenaude H. Helmer G.
Prunner J.
Merkley R. Hutchinson C. Jordan W.
Servage K.
Kielec W.
Wood E.
Irven D.
Barkley C. Brownell B.
Landry R. Robertson D. Bazinet R.
Harper R. Patterson L. Edgerton K. Murphy J. Meldrum B.
Boyd J.
Montgomery C. Beckstead B. Billings D.
Stata R.
Edgerton J.
Curran W.
60/03/14 60/03/31 60/06/09 60/08/18 61/04/19 61/04/19 61/04/27 62/05/29 62/05/29 62/05/29 62/11/26 62/1 7/26 63/02/15 63/02/20 63/02/20 63/02/20 63/02/21 64/01/15 64/02/26 64/07/03 65/08/16 65/09/13 65/11/15 66/02/23 66/03/01 66/05/06 66/07/26 66/07/26 66/08/22 66/08/29 66/08/29 66/08/30 66/08/30 66/08/30 66/09/01 66/09/06
66
5445
6996
8363
4791
4998
2507
3391
2445
2929
4646
1515
4576
1257
3618
4098
3106
2924
3179
5889
3283
3491
5008
1403
1326
6179
3098
3273
2558
4045
4666
3788
3431
1033
1531
3175
7042
Munroe D. Scott G. Woods T. Manley Owen McMahon E. DeRooy C.
Hall Donald Dame P. Empey G. Lefebvre F. Beaupre G. Lamoureux R. Auger A Hillis D. Jackson B. Francis H. Empey B. Garlough L. Ouderkirk G. Gil lard W. Hebert R. McMahon M. Barkley F. Baker Garry Patterson B. Francis G. Gillard Ronald Dingwall K. Iwachniuk D. Longtin R.
Hutt D.
Hanna G. Adams L. Beckstead F. Gannon D. Servage Darrol
67
66/09/06 66/09/06 66/09/07 66/09/15 66/09/29 67/07/03 67/07/03 67/07/11 67/07/15 67/08/29 67/08/30 67/08/30 67/09/05 68/01/08 68/01/08 68/03/25 68/05/02 68/05/02 68/05/02 68/05/28 68/06/10 68/06/12 68/06/17 68/07/02 68/07/02 68/08/28 68/08/28 68/09/03 68/09/11 69/05/20 69/07/28 69/07/29 69/08/05 69/08/05 69/08/05 69/08/15
8293
1711
3203
3551
5068
1193
3149
3798
4198
5058
5078
3411
5158
5098
4088
6986
1338
2989
4723
5108
2030
7371
6793
4855
7899
1766
4988
8263
1555
3501
5038
2015
1547
2025
3263
4845
Whitteker R. Bolton J. Geertsma B,
Hess D.
McMillen H. Alguire C.
Fyke W.
Hutt J.
Johnston E. McMillan Duncan McMillan L.
Hall S.
Merkley Douglas McMillan S. Jackson A. Schwerdtfeger T. Bakker H.
Feeley B. MacDonald C. McPherson G. Carruthers B. Stevens R. Riddell D. Mayhew O. Vanderveen J. Brownlee G. McMahon A. Wereley M. Beckstead L. Helmer D. McMillan C. Carbino W. Beckstead K. Cardinal U. Gillard Robert Mayhew C.
69/08/18
69/11/12
70/01/26
70/04/23
70/08/04
72/01/24
72/01/24
72/01/24
72/01/24
72/01/24
72/01/24
72/01/25
72/02/07
72/02/09
72/02/23
72/02/28
72/02/29
72/03/15
72/05/17
72/05/17
72/05/23
72/05/23
72/08/22
72/11/09
72/11/09
72/11/20
72/11/20
72/11/20
73/01/02
73/01/02
73/01/02
73/01/08
73/03/01
73/03/01
73/03/01
73/03/12
68
3139
4005
6913
8233
5148
1351
1364
1507
1949
2802
3233
3381
4656
5435
6976
1563
2709
8283
3093
5899
1391
1455
4898
2666
2999
4928
7122
6699
3818
2325
2011
1539
2919
3371
6923
3051
Fyke N.
Irven A.
Runions R. Weegar K. Merkley Daryl Bakker J.
Ball A.
Beaudette C.
Burd W. Keith Edgerton R. Gibeault A.
Hall Delphin Lewis G.
Munro B. Schwerdtfeger E. Beckstead N. Dusomos G. Whitteker L. Francis B. Ouderkirk J. Barkley E.
Barnett M. McCadden A. Droppo S.
Feeley T. McDermid D. Shay D.
Racine R.
Hutt R.
Cross David Carbino R. Beckstead G. Elliott P.
Hall C.
Rutley R.
Flynn W.
73/03/19 73/03/19 73/08/27 73/08/27 73/09/04 73/09/10 73/09/10 73/09/10 73/09/10 73/09/10 73/09/10 73/09/10 73/09/10 73/09/10 73/09/10 73/09/18 73/09/24 74/01/08 74/02/18 74/03/01 74/05/13 74/05/13 74/05/13 74/08/06 74/08/06 74/08/19 75/01/13 76/01/13 76/01/19 76/02/23 76/04/05 76/04/19 76/04/20 76/04/20 76/04/26 76/06/07
69
1442
4506
3346
7152
3471
7132
3451
2275
1731
3223
3526
4337
4369
6289
6279
3561
3481
7072
6169
2704
4908
2551
3060
7197
1420
3772
4300
4550
3973
Barkley T. LaFrance D. Grant G. Simpson D. Hatt C.
Shay R. Harper L. Coyle R. Boyer C. Genier R. Henderson R. Kelly E.
Kilby B. Pitcher C. Picard D. Hess J. Hebert A. Servage L. Patenaude R. Durant D. McCadden D. Dillabough W Foss I.
Smith D.
76/08/09
76/08/09
77/01/17
77/02/28
77/03/21
77/03/21
77/08/02
77/08/08
77/09/12
77/09/12
78/01/09
78/02/20
78/04/17
78/05/08
78/07/11
78/08/21
79/01/02
79/01/02
79/08/20
79/09/04
81/08/24
81/09/08
85/07/23
87/03/09
LIGHT LABOUR
Barkley J. Hunter W. Kelly L. Lajoie R.
Imrie P.
86/02/03
86/05/08
86/09/17
86/09/17
86/12/08
70
COMPANY RULES AND REGULATIONS
1.	Accidents must be reported at the time they occur, and first aid received, if necessary.
2.	The lock-out procedure as applicable must be followed at all times in repairing or maintaining electrical or mechanical equipment.
3.	Bringing alcoholic beverages, drugs or unprotected glass wear of any kind on company property is prohibited. No employee shall report for work under the influence of alcohol or drugs.
4.	Eating and smoking is permitted only in those areas so designated.
5.	Company issued clothing is not to be worn off the premises except on business.
6.	Company property is not to be taken from the premises without written authority.
7.	All employees must be at their work stations at the official starting time of the shift and must not leave their work stations until the official finishing time.
8.	Employees must not leave their working departments, except as approved by their Foreman.
9.	Rest periods must not extend over 15 minutes from the time the employee leaves the job to the time he is back on the job and at work.
10.	It is a serious offense to falsify any company record, or the employee to
71
punch the card of another employee or for employees to fail to punch out when leaving the factory other than on company business.
11.	Overtime, except in an emergency must have prior approval of the Foreman.
12.	An employee must not return to the factory when off shift, unless permission has been obtained from Management.
13.	An employee who is unable to report to work must call the Personnel Office at 448-2339 as soon as possible. After 4:30 p.m. and on weekends or holidays call 448-2339 and inform the Security Guard.
14.	After returning from an illness or accident an employee must inform the Personnel Office a day before returning and must report to the Medical Centre within a day of returning to work.
15.	An employee must carry out the orders of his Foreman. If he feels he has been wronged he may seek redress through the grievance procedure.
16.	Disorderly conduct, horse-play, or fighting is a serious offense and will not be permitted.
17.	Sleeping is not permitted.
18.	Running shoes. jogging shoes and other casual type shoes are not allowed in production or maintenance areas of the factory. Employees who do not wear safety shoes must provide
72
themselves with sturdy low-cut or high-laced shoes.
19.	No literature other than official documents related to the job shall be read during working hours.
Note: Any violation of these Rules & Regulations will be met with discipline appropriate to the offense up to and including discharge.
J. W. Cummings
January 16, 1986
73