SOURC2			
£FF.		■"*• i',; ;;	
TERM.			
No. OF EMPLOYEES
NOM8RE
A©RiEfei?!li
Between
MONARCHFlNEFOODS
MILK AND BREAD DRIVERS, dairy EMPLOYEES CATERERS AND ALLIED EMPLOYEES LOCAL, UNION NO. 6*7
EFFECTIVE MAY 1st(1990 TO
APRIL 30th, 1962

EXECUTIVE BOARD
Piesident	M
SecrPtar/-Trpas'iK*r	W
Virp-Presidpnt	n "
Rffyidn'iy S<~C iCtfi! *'
Trustee ........................~....~,
Tr..stee	M	Powers
BUSINESS AGENTS
j Canavan	.	T.mjnto
J Malcolm .
A McCnnkpy	■	Toionto
P Powpfs	li "Pdon
OFFICE STAFF
Mrc A Torti Mrs R H.vvey
MONARCH FINE FOODS
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
President.................... L.	F. Strong
Vice-president,
Manufacturing ............ D.J. Brown
Vice-president,
Commercial ...............K.J.	Cooper
Vice-President,
Marketing and Sales, PMG . P. J. Dallow Vice-president,
Marketing, DT ............R.J.	Bolhuis
INDEX
Article		Page
1	Bargaining Unit		... 1
2	Recognition 		... 2
3	Check-off 		... 2
4	Stewards 		... 3
5	Grievance Procedure		... 5
6	Rules Applying to Termination of Employment 		... 6
7	Establishing Seniority 		... 7
8	Days and Hours of Work 		... 11
9	Paid Holidays and Vacations.....13
10	Uniforms......................... 17
11	Rules Affecting Employees ........18
12	Social Welfare Benefits...........18
13	Bidding for Vacant Positions....22
14	General Notes.....................23
15	Foreladies and Foremen............25
16	Jobbing Out.......................25
17	Severance Pay.....................26
18	Safety Committee..................26
Appendix “A” — Wage ..................28
Appendix “B” — Tool Allowance ........35
Appendix “C” — Cola ..................36
Letters of Understanding .............38
THIS AGREEMENT made this 13th day of August, 1990 BETWEEN:
MONARCH FINE FOODS,
Toronto, Ontario
(hereinafter referred to as the "Employer") — and—
MILK AND BREAD DRIVERS, DAIRY EMPLOYEES, CATERERS AND ALLIED EMPLOYEES LOCAL UNION NO. 647, affiliated with the International Brotherhood of Teamsters, Chauffeurs, Warehouse and Helpers of America (hereinafter referred to as the "Union")
WITNESSETH:
It is the desire of the parties to this Agreement to establish, promote and foster a good relationship that will be enduring and of mutual benefit to both the Union and the Employer.
It is the essence of this Agreement that there shall be a maximum of cooperation and of help from the employees of the Employer to obtain all possible business and expand tne operation of the Employer, and the parties hereto pledge their full support and cooperation in this regard.
ARTICLE 1 — BARGAINING UNIT
1.01	This Agreement shall cover everyemployeeof the Employer working at Monarch Fine Foods, Rexdale, Ontario, save and except foremen, foreladies, persons above the rank of foreman or forelady, office staff, research and development staff, and sales staff, and persons covered by subsisting collective agreements.
I
ARTICLE 2 - RECOGNITION
NOW THEREFORE, the parties hereto agree as follows:
2.01	The Employer agrees to recognize the Milk and Bread Drivers, Dairy Employees, Caterers and Allied Employees Local Union 647, affiliated with the International Brotherhood of Teamsters, Chauffeurs, Warehouse and Helpers as the sole collective bargaining agency for all such employees coming within the bargaining unit.
2.02	UNION CONDITION
The Employer agrees to inform all new employees hired (who are to be covered by this Agreement), that Union membership is a condition of employment after sixty (60) days.
2.03	The Union office and the steward concernedshall be informed at the time of all such new employees (cards for this purpose to be supplied by the Union). They shall be required to submit an application card to the shop steward at the end of sixty (60) days. Failing to do so, they shall be taken off the job at the request of the Union. Such request must be in writing.
2.04	All members of the Union must maintain membership in the Union during the life of this Agreement as a condition of employment.
2.05	The Employer agrees to contact the Union Steward before hiring employees who are to be covered by this Agreement.
2.06	MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
The Company retains all rights and privileges of management as not otherwise amended by this Agreement.
ARTICLE 3 - CHECK-OFF
3.01	The Employer agrees to a deduction from employees' wages of monthly union dues and assessmentsfor union purposes, effectivewith the week
- 2 -
in which the employee is hired, as well as a deduction for initiation fee, so that the full initiation fee is deducted from the employee by conclusion of the employee's probationary period. The deduction for dues and assessments must be forwarded to the Union office no later than the 10th day of each month for the previous month's deductions.
3.02	Initiation fees shall be held by the Employer until conclusion of probation and then forwarded to the Union. If the employee is not employed until the conclusion of probation, amounts deducted toward the initiation fee will be refunded to such employee.
3.03	The Union shall notify the Employer, in writing, as to the prevailing rate of Union dues and any assessments.
3.04	The Employer further agrees that in the event of an employee being on vacation at the time of a regular deduction, such deduction shall be made from the employee's vacation pay.
3.05	In the case of the Union member being off through sickness on the dues deduction pay, his dues shall be taken off his first full pay following.
3.06	Annual union dues payment will be reported on the employee's T-4 slips.
ARTICLE 4 — STEWARDS
4.01	There shall be seven (7) stewards at the plant to see whether the members of the Union and Employer live up to the provisions of this Agreement, and to report any infractions of such provisions and rules to the department manager or superintendent who shall promptly deal with same. The stewards will represent the following areas and employees: 1) refinery, 2) packaging plant day shift, 3) packaging plant afternoon shift, 4) packaging plant night shift, 5) female employees, 6) maintenance, 7) warehouse — 100 Belfield Road.
3
4.02	Such stewards shall be elected by Union members in the shop concerned, and shall be an employee of the place in which he is a steward. There shall be no discrimination against the steward for Union activities.
4.03	The stewards shall have no authority to alter, amend, violate or otherwise change any part of this Agreement. The stewards shall report to the business agent of the Union any violation cf this Agreement.
4.04	The stewards will be considered the senior employees in their craft groups in the event cf a lay-off only. Should the lay-off involve stewards in the same craft group then years of service will govern.
4.05	The department manager or superintendent shall recognize the stewards or designate and shall inform them of all laying off or discharge and all Union personnel changes. This information shall be considered confidential.
4.06	The Employer shall entertain no complaint involving an alleged breach of any provision cf this Agreement until the complaining party has given a written statement of such complaint to the stewards or business agent.
4.07	A copy of the Employer's bulletin pertaining to Union members shall be given to all the Stewards.
4.08	The stewards shall be allowed time to service any grievance. Representatives of the Union shall be allowed to contact stewards by asking permissionof the department manager or superintendent.
4.09	The elected stewards and one representative from the lab. technicians shall act as the negotiating committee. The company will pay employees on the negotiating committee for up to eight hours per negotiating meeting with the company, up to, but not including conciliation.
4
ARTICLE 5 — GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
5.01	The employees through their accredited representative shall havethe right to discussatasuitabletime any written grievance involving any controversy, complaint, misunderstanding or dispute with the proper officials of the Employer. This meeting shall be held within three (3) working days of the time of the alleged grievance. The official shall give his answer within two (2) working days.
5.02	If the reply is not satisfactory, a meeting shall be held within two (2) working days with the Manufacturing Manager, Engineering Manager or Technical Manager and a reply shall be given within two (2) working days. If the reply is still not satisfactory, a meeting shall be arranged with the Vice President, Manufacturing within ten (10) working days. Heshall give his reply within two (2) working days. If the grievance remains unsettled it shall be subject to arbitration as follows.
5.03	Within five (5) working days after the final discussion between the Union and Vice President, Manufacturing, the party desiring arbitration shall notify the other party in writing. A Board of Arbitration shall be immediately established consisting of one (1) appointee of the Union and one (1) appointeeofthe Employer,and a third (3rd) member to act as Chairman, appointed on the recommendation of the first two (2) appointees. Should the members fail to agree on a Chairman within five (5) working days, they shall apply to the Minister of Labour for the Province of Ontario, who shall appoint a Chairman.
5.04	All grievances will be answered in writing at the second and third steps with copies sent to the Union office, union steward and the employee.
5.05	Notwithstanding the foregoing time limits defined in the grievance procedure, the time limits for second and third stages of the grievance procedure may be extended as agreed between the two parties.
5.06	An aggrieved employee may be present at any step of his grievance.
- 5 -
5.07	The Board of Arbitration shallnothavetherightto alter or change any of the provisionsof this Agreement or substitute any new provisions in lieu thereof, or to give any decision inconsistent with the terms and provisionsof this Agreement. Eachofthe partieshereto will bear the expenseoftheirappointeetotheBoardand will equally bear the feesandexpensesof the Chairman, The decision of the Board shall be final and binding on both parties.
5.08	It is further agreed that the Union and the Employer shall have the right to originate a grievance at a time not later than three (3)months from the date of the alleged grievance with regard to any dispute in the interpretation or manner in which the contract is being compiled with. The Union andthe Employer representative shall first discuss the complaint, such complaint to be either discussed or resolvedwithin a period of three (3) working days. If no actual agreement is reached either party shall submit to the arbitration procedure.
5.09	Payment of time and one-half will be madeto the grievor and steward for attendance at off-shiftgrievance meeting — basis time spent in the meeting.
ARTICLE 6 — RULES APPLYING TO TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT
6.01	The Employer may discharge or dismiss any employee for good cause upon one (l)weeks noticeor one week's pay in lieu of notice. In the event that the Employer feels it 'is necessary to discharge an employee, the Employer shall not discharge said employee unless one (1) written warning notice has been given to said employee (copy of notice to be forwarded to Union office), except that the Employer shall have the right to summary dismissal or discharge upon any of the following grounds or similar serious causes;
1.	stealing or dishonesty;
2.	drinking while on duty or being under the influence of liquor or drugs while on duty;
3.	direct refusal to obey orders given by the proper party unless such orders jeopardize life, health or safety of the employee.
6.02	An employee's record of written disciplinary action shall be removed from his record eighteen (18) months from the date that the disciplinary action was first entered on his record.
6.03	Each employee who desires to terminate his employment must give his Employer one (1) week's notice. If he fails to do so he shall, upon complaint from his Employer, be dealt with by the Union.
6.04	Any employee leaving a shop shall be furnished with a reference, provided his work has been satisfactory.
6.05	When an employee has been dismissed, the Employer shall send a copy of thedismissal notice to the Union office within forty-eight (48) hours of the dismissal with the reasons for the dismissal.
ARTICLE 7 — ESTABLISHING SENIORITY
7.01	Lists showing seniority of service by Craft Group and plantwide shall be compiled and kept posted on the notice board. These lists will be revised every three (3) months, new employees' names to be added immediately and verified by the steward for posting. Where two employees establish seniority on the same date, seniority will be in alphabetic order of surname. A copy of seniority list will be sent to the Union office.
7.02	There shall be seven (7) craft groups for the
purpose of differentiation in the matter of seniority. Group I	All employees of the Packaging Plant
Group II	All employees of the Shipping &
Receiving Department
Group III Central Maintenance Employees
7
Group IV Group V
Group VI Group VII
Maintenance employees of the Packaging Plant staff
Skilled employees of the Refinery Staff
(a)	Hydrogenation operator
(b)	Control Room operator
(c)	Formulation operator
(d)	Unloading/Acidulation operator
(e)	Fractionation Refinery operator and general help of the Refinery Staff
Laboratory employees Over-the-road tank truck drivers
7.03	Discharge or Resignation
Discharge or resignation of any employee shall constitute a break in service. His seniority shall start anew on re-employment.
7.04	Leave of Absence
(a)	In the event of sickness of an employee, or in the event of sickness in the employee's family necessitating time off, leave of absence may be granted for a period up to six (6) months by mutual agreement between the Employer and the Union without loss of seniority.
(b)	Where definite proof is given of extreme necessity, this leave of absence may be extended by mutual agreement between the Union and the Employer.
(c)	Leave of absence for any other reason may be granted subject to the operational requirements of the business.
(d> No employee shall be given leave of absence for the purpose of going into other employment.
(e)	Requests for leave of absence must be made in writing with a copy given to the Union steward.
(f)	When requesting leave of absence because of sickness in an employee's family, a doctor's certificate must accompany the request before it can be considered.
- 8 -
(g)	Leave of absence for any other reason than sickness of an employee or sickness in an employee's family should be requested with a maximum of six (6) months' notice in advance. If more than one (1) person applies for the same time period, leave will be granted on a first come first serve basis.
(h)	The company will advise the employee within 30 days of request, as to whether leave of absence has been approved.
7.05	Lay-offs
(a)	In the event of a layoff, workforce reduction, or job elimination the affected employees would have the option to accept layoff or bump within their own craft group. In the event of a multiple layoff the senior employees would have the choice of the junior jobs available (eg. if three people are bumping the most senior would have first choice of the three most junior jobs. The second most senior has choice of the two remaining jobs and the least senior takes the last remaining junior job).
(b)	Employees who have been laid off from their own craft group may bump between craft groups, ifthey have achieved 5 years seniority and are faced with a layoff expected to exceed two weeks. Exceptions would be Craft Groups 3, 4, 6 where special qualifications are necessary.
Should a layoff extend beyond an expected two (2) week period, those employees eligible to bump under this article will be paid two weeks' wages at the rate they would have otherwise earned if they had been permitted to bump between craft groups.
(c)	Any person who has bumped into another job and fails to qualify within the training period will be laid off and placed on the re-employment list. This assessment will be made after the first four weeks of training.
(d)	Employees who have bumped retain their classifications for three (3) months and are subject to recall to
- 9 -
their former positions At the conclusion of the three (3) month period, employees will assume their new classification
(e)	In the event of a major force reduction where a clean up crew is required, the most Senior employees will be retained provided that the individuals available have the skills and ability to do the job
(f)	If a layoff inCraft Group 111 or IV isextended beyond five (5) working days, surplus employees having appropriate seniority in:
(i)	Group HI may bump into Craft Group IV
(ii)	Group IV may bump into Craft Group III, Class “A”.
(g)	During the training period, the right to preferential shift selection by seniority, may be temporarily suspended.
(h)	Employeesto be laid off will begivenfive ('SJdays' notice if a layoff isto extend beyondone (1)week except in case of emergency.
(i)	For the purpose of layoff, Craft Group III shall be considered to contain two categories
A)	General Mechanics — "A'Mechanics
B)	Specialized Trades -Lift Truck Mechanic
Pipefitter Welder Instrumentation Mechanic Electronic Technician
Layoff will affect the mostjunior person in theaffected category A.
Layoff in category B will be by seniority within the trade.
7.06	Re-Employment Lists
All employees laid off through no fault of their own by the Employer shall be placed on the Employer's seniority list for re-employment for three (3) years Separate lists shall be maintainedfor each Craft group
- 10 -
All employees recalled within three (3) years from the date of layoff shall be given continued seniority for the total period employed.
7.07	Temporary Vacancies
Where the company wishes to fill a temporary vacancy, it will do so in the following order:
1.	With the senior employee having the same classification working as a spare employee or working as a re-assigned employee on that shift.
2.	With the senior qualified general help available on the shift in question, provided such re-assignment does not result in overtime.
3.	If there are no spare unassigned or general help employees available, then the overtime procedure will be followed.
7.08	Probationary Employees
When a new employee is hired the Employee shall consider the first sixty (60) days of his employment, which shall include Saturdays and Sundays, as a probationary period. However such probationary period shall be extended by the number of days that the employee is absent during this probationary period.
7.09	The Company will advise the Union cf the elimination of any job classification.
ARTICLE 8 — DAYS AND HOURS OF WORK
8.01
(a)	Five (5) days of eight (8) hours shall constitute a working week for all employees.
(b)	Employees shall not be replaced prior to completing their eight (8) hours when the line they are working on is continuing in production.
(c) Employees shall be paid at the rate of time and one-half (1%) the base rate of the job for all hours worked in excess of eight (8) hours in any one day and
11
for the “A” (night) and “B” (day)shiftson Saturday In no case shall more than one (1) premium apply
(d)	No employees shall be allowed to work more than sixteen (16) hours in any one day except for truck drivers The company will offer overtime in four (4) or eight (8) hour maximum blocks except in maintenance
(e)	The “C” (evening) shift on Saturday and all Sunday shifts shall be paid at the rate of two (2) times the base rate of the job and in no case shall more than one (1) premium apply
(f)	All work started before an employee's normal starting time shall be paid at the appropriate premium rate
8.02	No change in starting time of any employee shall take place until notification and explanation has been given to the shop steward in the department involved An employee's shift shall not be changed unless one (1) weeks notice is given to the shop stewardand employee involved except in the case of an extreme emergency
8.03	Absenteeism by an employee without just cause or notification to the Employer shall be considered abuse of this Agreement, and may be cause for dismissal or suspension by the Employer or discipline by the Union
8.04	All inside employees shall be entitled to a rest period allotted by management during each half shift Lunch periods shall not be within three (3) hours of starting time or after five (5) hours worked
Breaks and meal periods in the packaging plant shall be
Shift	ABC
Breaks	two 10 minute two 10 minute two 10 minute
Meals 30 minutes 30 minutes 30 minutes
8.05	Employees required to work ten (10) consecutive hours on one (1) shift shall be entitled to a fifteen (15)
12
minute break within the first overtime hour and a meal allowance in the amount of $7.00.
8.06	If an employee is required to work on his or her regular day off, they shall be guaranteed four (4) hours' work at time and one-half (1V4) and to continue at this rate beyond four (4) hours for all hours worked. This does not refer to normal overtime.
8.07	Employees called in to work on an emergency basis shall be paid a minimum of four (4) hours' pay at the rate of time and one-half (IV2) and shall beallowed to leave the premises when the job is completed. Sunday call-in shall be paid at double (2) time.
8.08	There shall be no split shifts unless jointly agreed to by the shop steward and the employee concerned together with management.
8-09 Shift Overlap
To protect the continuity of operations an employee will remain on his job until relieved for a period of up to fifteen (15) minutes maximum. Normal overtime rates will prevail during this additional period.
Employees working shift overlap will be paid 15 minutes for any time worked while waiting to be relieved upon Supervisor's authorization.
8.10	When an employee is absent from work due to negotiations, he/she will not be penalized or charged as refusing hours on Overtime schedule for their department.
ARTICLE 9 — PAID HOLIDAYS AND VACATIONS
Vacations
9.01	Employees shall be eligible for vacation after having worked for a period of six (6) months but less than one (1) year on the basis of one-half (Vi) day for each month employed. Employees in the service of the Employer for a period of one (1) year shall receive two (2) weeks' vacation with pay annually. Employees with a
- 15 -
continued service with the Employer for a period of five
(5)	years shall receive three (3) weeks'vacation with pay Employees with a continued service with the Employer for a period of ten (10) years shall receivefour (4) weeks' vacation with pay Employees with a continued service with the Employer for a period of seventeen (17) years shall receive five (5) weeks' vacation with pay Employees with a continued service with the Employer for a period of twenty-eight (28) years shall receive six
(6)	weeks' vacation with pay Employees completing their fifth (5th), tenth (10th) seventeenth (17th) and twenty-eighth (28th) year of service in the vacation year shall be eligible for the additional week's entitlement in that vacation year
9.02	In consideration of the manning requirements of the business, employees entitled to three (3), four (4). five (5) or six (6Jweeks’ vacation may request additional vacation during the regular vacation period Such additional vacation will be scheduled by the Employer and will be assigned on the basis of seniority The Employer shall determine the number of employees in a classification who may be granted additional leave
9.03	It is further agreed that the Employer will endeavour to have the plant closed during July for a two (2) week period If due to production problems this is not possible. arrangements shall be made to give employees their holidays on a seniority basis, from June 1st to September 30th
9.04	Forthe purposeof determining holidays, the year shall be considered as of the First of Julyof anycalendar year, that is, an employee would haveto beemployedfor six (6) months prior to July Istinorderto beeligiblefora vacation in that year The following dates are to be observed with regards to scheduling of employee vacations according to seniority
On April 1st a vacation list will be posted Employees wishing to schedule a vacation in the period July 1st-October 31st must submit a request to supervisor
- 14 -
indicating vacation weeks preferred by April 21st. Supervisor will advise employees which weeks are granted no later than May 15th by posting a vacation schedule.
On September 1st a vacation list will be posted. Employees wishing to schedule a vacation in the period November 1st-June 30th must submit a request to supervisor indicating vacation weeks preferred by September 21st. Supervisor will advise employees which weeks are granted no later than October 15th by posting a vacation schedule.
Seniority will be taken into consideration by supervisors in resolving any scheduling conflicts in the three week period following filing dates providing original request was submitted by filing date.
Seniority will not apply to scheduling of vacation weeks requested after April 21st and September 21st. These requests will be considered solely on the basis of remaining weeks available at date of request.
9.05	Vacation pay for each week of vacation entitlement shall be computed at the rate of two percent (2%) of the previous year’s earnings as per T-4 slips less vacation pay, taxable benefits and allowances, or the equivalent of forty (40) hours at the base rate of the employee at the time of calculation, whichever is the greater. Such vacation pay shall be paid on the Wednesday payday before the scheduled vacation provided sufficient notice (2 full weeks) is given by the employee. All vacation entitlement must be taken in the vacation year.
Employees who have been absent for a period in excess of thirty (30) days during the vacation year as defined in 9,04 shall be eligible only for vacation pay based on the percentage calculation applied to their T-4 slip of the year prior excluding employees who have been on Workers' Compensation and/or Weekly Indemnity.
15
New employees shall receive 4 percent (4%) of their total earnings up to July 1st of the vacation year, plus the 'k day entitlement of Article 9.01.
9.06	Any employee terminating his employment with the Employer who is entitled to two (2). three (3), four (4). five (5) or six (6) weeks’ vacation, depending on his length of service, shall receive vacation pay at the rate of 4, 6, 8, 10 or 12% of his earnings as the case may be for the period worked since the previous July 1st.
9.07	Persons who are on lay-off because of shortage of work for any part of the vacation year but who have sufficient seniority to qualify for more vacation payment than provided under Employment Standards Act. shall receive vacation pay based on their vacation credits, ie, 4, 6, 8, 10 or 12% as the case may be, for such vacation year for time actually worked for the Employer.
9.08	It is further agreed that the offices of the Milk and Bread Drivers, Dairy Employees, Caterers and Allied Employees Union will help as far as possible in trying to provide extra help to take care of vacation periods.
Statutory Holidays
9.09	Employees shall qualify for payment at the rate of eight (8) hours at their regular rate, for the following statutory holidays:
New Year's Day Good Friday Victoria Day Dominion Day Civic Holiday Labour Day
Thanksgiving Day Christmas Eve Christmas Day Boxing Day Day preceeding New Year’s Day
There will be an additional paid holiday scheduled on the second Monday in February subject to the proviso that if Heritage Day is declared this designated day shall become Heritage Day.
9.10	Probationary employees, persons on weekly indemnity, persons off on compensation, and persons on lay-off up to thirty (30) days at the time of the statutory holiday, shall qualify for payment. Persons on
16
lay-off in excess of thirty (30) days or on leave of absence shall not qualify for statutory holiday payment.
9.11	If an employee is required to work on any statutory holiday, he shall receive at the discretion of the employee, an extra two (2) days' pay or two (2) days in lieu. The Employer must be notified within three (3) days of the employee's decision. Available lieu days as determined by the Employer will be posted, and employees will bid on a seniority basis for available days.
9.12	Should any statutory holiday occur during an employee's vacation or day off, he shall receive either a day in lieu thereof or a day's pay at the employee's choice.
If a day in lieu is requested by the employee, it will be scheduled consistent with production requirements.
Should the Company require a Monday start-up after the summer closure, the Company will first request volunteers. Should insufficient volunteers be available, the Company will schedule remaining employees by reverse seniority within the required job classifications. At least three (3) weeks' notice prior to start of summer plant shutdown will be given, should the Company require a Monday start-up.
ARTICLE 10 — UNIFORMS
10.01	Drivers shall be allowed one (1) winter and one (1) summer uniform every eighteen (18) months. Winter uniforms shall consist of one (1) jacket, two (2) pairs of trousers, five (5) shirts, and a cap. In the first year of employment, employees may have an extra jacket. Summer uniforms shall consist of two (2) pairs of trousers, five (5) shirts and one (1) cap. Uniform allotment shall also include three (3) black ties.
10.02	The Employer shall pay two-thirds (2/3rds) of the cost and the employee shall pay one-third (1 /3rd) cf the cost of uniforms. The Employer shall pay for the cleaning of the drivers' uniforms.
- I7 -
10.03	Uniforms must bear the Union label
10.04	All inside employees shall be supplied with uniforms suitable to perform their work assignments
10.05	All general help will be supplied with one (1) parka each year
10.06	Refinery operators, central maintenance, laboratory employees and tank truck drivers will be supplied with parkas to be replaced when needed but not more than one (1) peryear Parkasfor refineryemployeesand central maintenance will be hydro type
10.07	All employees will receive semi annual allowance of seventy dollars ($7000) upon receipt of invoice for safety rubber boots, safety boots or shoes Payment will be made by cheque within five (5) days of receipt of invoice Safety footwear must be worn at all times in the plant Allowance may be banked if not used up in the year
10.08	Employees required to work outside will be supplied with raincoats and rubber boots
10.09	Maintenance employees will be supplied with trousers and shirts In winter insulated pants will be available from central stores and returned upon completion of outside assignment
ARTICLE 11 — RULES AFFECTING EMPLOYEES
11.01	It is the duty of all employees to make sure they are clean and tidy while processingfood products, and it is agreed that an employee failing to comply with this request be subject to discipline by management
ARTICLE 12 — SOCIAL WELFARE BENEFITS
12.01	Pension Plan Allowance
Effective October 1st, 1988, the Company will provide on weekly paycheques, a paymentof $12.50 per week to employees in lieu of Company contributions formerly paid into the Union pension plan. This is based upon conditions expressed in letter of understanding attached.
— 18 —
This allowance will be considered as earnings for the purpose of vacation pay calculation in Article 9 05
12.02	Welfare Plan
(a)	The Employer will contribute a weekly amount to provide for the following benefits effective July 1, 1986, as scheduled in the Milk Driver Local 647 Welfare Trust Fund The plan contract shall be the determinant document in all respects of eligibility and schedule of benefits
(i)	Life insurance — $30,000. with double indemnity coverage. Effective September 1, 1990.
(ii)	Disability Income — Sickness and Accident Insurance for employees while employed with a benefit rate of 66 2/3% of earnings to the u.l.C. maximum per week, plus Twenty Dollars ($20.00) per week, with a maximum benefit period of thirty-nine (39) weeks, commencing on the first day of absence due to non-occupational accident or the fourth day of absence due to illness. It is understood that the Company will bear the total cost of providing the above Sickness and Accident Plan in lieu of the Unemployment Insurance Commission program, therefore, the premium credit including the employee's portion by the Unemployment Insurance Commission or any governmental source, shall be retained by the Company.
(iii)	Accidental Death and Dismemberment
(iv)	Semi-private and Ambulance.
(v)	The Company shall contribute up to a maximum of one dollar and eighty-five cents ($1.85) per week per employee towards the funding of a Union major medical rider.
(b)	All contributions shall be forwarded to:
19
Employee Benefit Plan Services Ltd
Suite 600
300 John Street
Thornhill, Ontario
L3T 5W4
(c)	The Employer agrees to pay the full premium for each week the employee has money coming to him while absent from work The premium will then be paid by the Welfare Plan for a period to be arrived at by the Trustees for absences due to sickness or accident
(d)	All new permanent employees shall become eligible for the benefits described in 12 02 at the conclusion of sixty (60) days' employment New Union employees or employees returning from lay-off or leave of absence shall be entitled to the above benefitsfrom the first week of re-employment
12.03	Drug Prescription Plan
(a)	The company will pay the premium cost of a pay direct prescription drug plan equivalentto Blue Cross Employees will be re-imbursed by the company for all approved expenditures within two (2) working days Effective September 1, 1990, prescribedvitamins will be included as part of Drug Plan coverage
(b)	All new permanent employees, hired on or before the 15th day of the month, shall become and remain members of the Plan on the first day of the second month following their date of employment, all new permanent employees hired after the 15th day of the month shall become members of the Pian on the first day of the third (3rd) month following their date of employment
12.04	Sick Pay Plan
The Employer agrees to provide a sick pay plan on the following basis
(a) A bank of seven (7) days’ sick pay credits will be established for each employee beginning on the 16th day of Decemberof each year. This bank of 7 days will
20
be reduced by one-half ('A) day each month not worked, as per letter of Understanding dated January 29, 1970. Draw will be at employee's choice.An adjustment will be made to an employee's closing cheque if they fail to complete the full year of service.
(b) Pay-Out: It is agreed that the Employer will pay off any unused sick pay credits at the end of each calendar year. This payment will be made by December 15th of each year. Payments will be calculated on the basis of current wage rates.
12.05	Dental Plan
(a)	The Employer agrees to pay the full cost of the Preventative Basic Dental Plan 9 and Rider 2, or its equivalent.
Effective January 1, 1991 payment will beat 1990 rates (O.D.A.).
(b)	All new permanent employees, hired on or before the 15th day of a month, shall become members of the Plan on the first day of the second month following their date of employment; all new permanent employees hired after the 15th day of a month, shall become members of the Plan on the first day of the third (3rd) month following their date of employment.
12.06	LTD
The Company will increase LTD premium contribution effective August 1, 1990 to provide $1,000 Monthly Income Benefit. Effective with disabilities commencing on or after September 1, 1990, the Monthly Income Benefits becomes $1,000.
12.07	Optical
The Company will contribute Seven Dollars ($7.00) per employee per month to fund a Union Optical plan, effective September 1, 1988.
12.08	Retirement Benefit
Employees aged 60 who have twenty (20) years' service and elect to take early retirement will have
- 21 -
prescription drug plan premiums paid on their behalf to
age 65 years
12.09	Lay-off Benefits
The Company will extend benefits coverage for laid-off employees for one month following month of lay-off
NOTE: If during the course of this Agreement OHIP is reinstituted, then the Employer will pay premiums for each eligible employee under the prior terms and conditions of the previous contract
ARTICLE 13 — BIDDING FOR VACANT POSITIONS
13.01	All bids are to be made in writing and are to be in duplicate, one (1) copy to management and one (1) copy to the Steward
13.02	All jobs postings shall have the time posted and closing time for bids on the notice Such postings shall remain on the notice boards in all departments for a period of two (2) working days (48 hours), which shall exclude Saturdays and Sundays No employee's bid will be accepted after the closing time on the job posting
13.03	All vacant positions and all new positions shall be publicly posted as stated in Clause 13 02
13.04	The senior employee based on length of service shall have the first opportunity of bidding on such vacancy if qualified If he or she declines,the next senior employee shall have such option and so on The final vacancy shall be offered to the senior employee laid off Acceptance of a position shall be considered equivalent to a successful bid
Employees bidding into the laboratory,who have held a position in the laboratory, Craft group VI, within the last five (5) years, will not be required to retake the written test
13.05	Job postings will have a twenty-four (24) hour cool-off period commencing immediately after the bid
22
closes but excluding Saturday and Sunday. At the end of the twenty-four (24) hour period employees who have bid on the job may decide if they wish to let their bid stand or withdraw it. If the bid remains, normal bidding rules will prevail. If the bid is withdrawn during the twenty-four (24) hour period only, then there will be no
loss of bidding rights.
If after securing the bid job the employee doesn't qualify after the training period, he/she goes back to the position they left.
13.06	Job vacancies will be posted with no less than forty-eight (48) hours between postings, except that multiple postings will be permitted within the same classification. Successful applicants will be put on the job within four (4) weeks of the award. Only one change as a result of successful bidding shall be permitted, per employee, per year.
13.07	Promotions to management positions shall be at the discretion of management.
13.08	In the event of the Company terminating an employee, that employee's job will not be posted for bid until the Company's final position, as expressed in the third stage meeting reply on the grievance, is issued.
ARTICLE 14 — GENERAL NOTES
14.01	This Agreement shall not take from the employees any privileges they have hitherto enjoyed, except as are specifically dealt with in this Agreement.
14.02	Employees will be paid at the rate of the highest job class they perform during the course of a shift.
14.03	No employee shall be asked or permitted to make any verbal or written agreement which may conflict with the Agreement.
14.04	Employees are not permitted to engage in any other major occupation or business during the course of their employment.
23
14.05	In the case of lock-outs or strike of any Union, it shall not be considered a violation of this Agreement for any member of the Union to refuse to deliver goods where such a controversy is going on
The Union will not call or sanction or enforce any sympathetic strike of its members and the Employer shall not aid other Employers in any fight that may be waged against the Union
It is agreed that the participation of any driver or any employee in such controversy shall not interferewith his regular duties with the Company
14.06	It is also agreed that the wage summary outlined in Appendices "A". “B”, and “C" is recognized as part of this Agreement
14.07	In the event of a death in the immediate family of an employee covered by this Agreement, the Employer agrees to grant the employee the necessary time off without loss of pay up to five (5) days Immediate family shall be Considered as father, mother, mother-in-law, father-in-law, wife, husband, common law spouse, sister, brother, son or daughter
Two days bereavement time off with pay will be allowed for the death of grandparents or grandchildren
14.08	Where it is necessary for any employees to be absent from work on Union business. the Employer agrees to release such employee for the time necessary at the request of the Union, at no expense to the Employer
14.09	Where an employee is called for jury duty or is subpoenaed as a witness, he shall be paid his full pay by his Company Such employee will give his jury pay or witness pay cheque to the Company in return
14.10	Shift staffs for groups I, II, III, IV, and VI shall be by choice of seniority Employees are allowed to exercise this privilege once per year Groups V and VII shall continue as presently practised
24
14.11	Before any changes to a rotational shift, the Employer and the Union agree to discuss and mutually agree to change in the present system.
14.12	(a) The Company will continue training programs as required by the operation.
(b) In order to maintain the Distribution Operating function, three (3) senior volunteer General Help (Craft Group I) on “B” and “C” shift will be trained as backup Distribution Operators.
14.13	No employee shall work alone when cleaning out tank trucks, tank cars or the large storage tanks.
14.14	The contract shall be printed in booklet form with the cost of printing borne by the Company. The Company will provide the Union with asupplyof printed contracts.
14.15	The Union shall be provided with five locked, glass-faced notice boards in Refinery, Packaging Plant, Fractionation Plant, Skylab, and Maintenance.
14.16	Education Assistance — One hundred percent (100%) of Tuition fees and textbooks are paid by the Company for any course an employee is asked to take or is required to take as a condition of employment. The Company will pay fifty percent (50%) of the cost initially and fifty percent (50%) after the employee successfully completes the course.
ARTICLE 15 — FORELADIES AND FOREMEN
15.01	No person who is excluded from the bargaining unit will be allowed to perform duties of an employee in the bargaining unit except in the case of emergency or for the purposes of training an employee.
ARTICLE 16 — JOBBINGOUT
16.01	For economic and/or capacity reasons it may from time to time be necessary for Monarch Fine Foods to assign work to individuals outside the scope of the Collective Agreement. Should this be necessary, the
- 25 -
Company and Union will meet and discuss the reasons for such work assignment.
ARTICLE 17 - SEVERANCE PAY
17.01	Employees laid off after May 1, 1984, shall be placed on the re-employment list for three (3) years. Such employees shall be eligible for severance pay if not recalled within thirty (30) days. Severance pay will be calculated on the basis of ten (10) days per year of service up to the date of layoff. Partialyears entitlement will be calculated to the nearest completed week of service. Employees may apply for severance pay at any time within the three (3) year time period above, provided they waive, in writing, their re-employment privileges and resign their employment at that time.
This article will also apply to those employees who do not exercise their option to bump, and choose to go on the re-employment list.
ARTICLE 18 — SAFETY COMMITTEE
18.01	Both the Company and the Union recognize their mutual obligations to assist in the prevention, correction and elimination of all unhealthy and unsafe working conditions and practices.
In support of this stated obligation, a Joint Health and Safety Committee, represented equally by Management and Union, will operate and meet on a regular basis, not less than once each three (3) months, during the life of this Agreement. The purpose of this committeewill beto develop and recommendsafe guideinesand procedures in an effort to eliminate accidents. Further, individual plant and maintenancecommittees will function in alike manner.
EXPIRATION AND RENEWAL OF AGREEMENT
This Agreement shall become effective as of May 1, -4990 and shall continue in force and effect until April 30,1 1992 and yearly thereafter unless not less than severity'
26
(70) days written notice of termination or of amendments shall be given either by the Local Union or the Employer, one to the other, by registered mail, and unless not less than sixty (60) days prior to the date of termination the one who has given such notice also gives to the other, by registered mail, notice of its demands and proposals or amendments to the Agreement. Such notices shall be addressed to the Employer at his place of business and to the Union at 7 Hafis Road, Toronto, Ontario, M6M 2V6.
IN WITNESS THEREOF, the parties hereto mentioned have executed this Agreement this 13th day of August, 1990.
FOR THE EMPLOYER MONARCH FINE FOODS
D.J. Brown
D.	Dobbin P.P. Schur A.L. Saul S.T. Ashby
FOR THE UNION
MILK DRIVERS, DAIRY EMPLOYEES, CATERERS AND ALLIED EMPLOYEES,
LOCAL UNION 647
A.	McConkey W. Shaw
J. Parry F. Libralesso
R.	DeBartok
S.	Dharamshi
E.	Sitahall D. Waslyk
B.	Pellicciotta
27
WAGE APPENDIX “A”
Group I All Employees of the Packaging Plant
Effective Date Class
May 01,1990
B
May 01, 1991 ABC
1. Oil Room Operator
19.18	19.13	19.06	19.01
|	2. Mixmaster 19.06	19.01	18.94	18.89
io	Machine Operator
Milk Room Operator '	Distribution Operator
Wash-up Operator Hot Box Operator Scrubber Operator
3. General Help 18.60 Janitor	18.60
Probationary 18.07 Rate
20 18	20.13	20.06
20.06 20.01	19.94
19.60
19.60 19.07
D
20.01
19.89
4. Operator II	18.38 18.27 18.17
5.	Sample
Checkers	18.12 18.02 17.92
Laundry
Attendant
6. Packers
Start	18.40
|	After
t-j	60 days
probation	18.60
19.38 19.27 19.17 19.12	19.02	18.92
19.40
19.60
NOTE Class “D” is the rate for the first ninety (90) days after which increase to Class “C”. Further advances shall be subject to merit rating and open at all timesto reviewby Union Committee and Management.
To comply with the provisions of the Pay Equity Act of Ontario, both parties to this agreement agreed that the work performedby General Help and Packer be recognized as being of comparable value and that these two job classes be paid at the same rate. It is further agreed that Packers will only be asked to do Packer duties.
Group II — All Employees of the Shipping and Receiving Department
Effective Date
Shippers and Receivers/Asst Shippers Head Shipper (one only I Pack. Plant) o
Group III — Central Maintenance Employees
Effective Date	May 01,1990	May 01, 1991
Class A and B	21.32	22.32
Welding premium — an additional "Welding Premium" of twenty-five (256) cents is to
be paid to four holders only of a current U69 high pressure welding card.
Definitions
Class A
General Mechanics To have one of the following qualifications:
(1) Certified Construction Millwright, or Industrial Maintenance Millwright.
May 01,1990
19.06
19.18
May 01, 1991
20.06
20.18
(2) A recognized indentured apprenticeship, which is defined as any certification the employee needs to satisfy the needs of the Company.
Class B
Specialized Trades
—	Lift truck mechanic
—	Pipefitter welder
—	Instrumentation Mechanic
—	Electronic Technician
I NOTE: Apprentices assume job-class seniority upon attaining certification w
GROUP IV — Maintenance Employees — Packaging Plant EffectiveDate	May 01, 1990 May 01,1991
Automatic Packaging
Equipment Mechanic	21.32	22.32
(Pack. Plant Only)
Definition
To have completed an apprenticeship in the trade of machine fitter, or bench fitter or Industrial Maintenance Millwright with demonstrated Packaging ability.
GROUP V — Employees of the Refinery Staff
Class A Class B
(a) Hydrogenation Operator	19 15	19.09
(b)	Control Room Operator
(c)	Formulation Operator
(d) Unloading/Acidulation	20.15	20.09
Operator
(e)	Fractionation Refinery Operator
NOTE: While the Refinery and Fractionation Plant are actually in operation, Control Room Operators, Batch Operator, and FractionationRefinery Operators Group V shall receive a 150: premium above their rate This payment shall be at the discretion of management without job posting and applies to two (2) operators per shift and Batch Operator
Class C Class D Effective May 01/90
19 03	18 97 Effective May 01/91
20 03	19,97
Effective Date
May 01/90	May 01/91
(f) General Help Probation Rate
18.60	19 60
18 07	19 07
NOTE: Class“D” is the rate for the first ninety (90) days after which the increaseto Class “C” Further advances shall besubjectto merit rating and open atalltimesto review by Union Committee and Management
GROUP VI — Laboratory Employees Effective Date
Chief Technician Skilled Technician
May 01/90 May 01/91
19.22	20.22
19.15	20.15
GROUP VII — Over The Road lank Truck Drivers Effective Date	May 01/90	May 01/91
I Drivers*	19.06	20.06
'Provided trips are within a one hundred (100) mile radius of the Rexdale Plant. For trips ” which extend beyond a one hundred (100) mile radiusofthe Rexdale Plant,the hourly I rate shall be replaced by mileage at the rate of thirty-nine (39C) cents per mile effective May 01, 1990. In no case shall there beany use of both of the above systems of pay but only one shall apply depending solely on mileage ratings from the Rexdale Plant. All work performed after finish of mileage run will be paid at time and one half (1'/2), if mileage run is in excess of eight (8) hours.
1.	Breakdown Time
Tank Driverswhile on mileage rate will be paid for breakdown time at straight hourly ratesfrom time of breakdown until driver is accommodated orison hisway. Aftertwelve (12) hours from the time driver is accommodated, he shall be paid up to a maximumof ten (10) hours in the first twenty-two (22) hour period from the time of accommodation. The same principal shall apply in each succeeding twenty-two (22) hour period Such payment shall end when driver resumes his trip.
2.	Waiting Time
I Tank drivers while on mileage rate will be paid for waiting time to load or unload in £ excess of one (1) hour at straight hourly rates. Waiting time to load or unload in excess I of eight (8) hours will be paid at one and one-half (1%) times the straight hourly rate.
3.	Pumping Time
Tank driverswhile on mileage rate will be paid for pumpingtimeatdestinationuptoa maximum of two (2) hours at straight hourly rates
4.	The Company will re-imburse the drivers for any run requiring overnight accommodation up to sixty ($60.00) dollars, based upon receipts submitted, for motel accommodation effective upon signing of contract
APPENDIX “B”
TOOL ALLOWANCE
An annual tool credit allowance of two hundred and fifty dollars ($250.00) shall be provided for maintenance personnel.
Tool Allowance of $250.00 per year to be paid effective May 1, 1990 with no receipts and no banking.
Employees in the service of the Craft Group for less than twelve (12) months shall receive an allowance on a pro rata basis upon completion of their probationary period.
SHIFT PREMIUM
There shall be a shift premium of sixty-five cents (65$) per hour for all hours worked starting at or after 3:00 p.m. and a shift premium cf sixty-five cents (654) per hourfor all hours worked starting at or after 11:00 p.m. and finishing on or before 7:00 a.m. of the following day.
35
APPENDIX “C”
Cost of Living Allowance
All employees covered by this Agreement, except students, seasonal employees and probationary employees shall be entitled to a Cost of Living Allowance (COLA) based on the Consumer Price Index (CPI - all items, Canada - base, 1971 = 100) published by Statistics Canada, as set forth below
(a)	EffectiveMay 1,1986, fifty (508) centsoftheexisting entitlementwill be folded into wages Leaving zero float
(b)	The CPI published for March 1986,13 week quarter shall be compared with the CPI published for June, 1986,13 week quarter An allowanceof one cent (1<P) per hour shall be paid for each hour worked from July 1, to September 30, for each zero point five (05) point increase by which the June, 1986, quarter CPI exceeds the March, 1986quarterCPI This allowance will be paid on a separate COLA cheque to be provided no laterthan the first Friday of the week following the quarter
(c)	The September, 1986, 13 week quarter CPI shall then be compared with the CPI published for June, 1986, 13 week quarter The allowance shall be adjusted by an additional one cent (1<P) for each hourworkedfor October 1 to December31, 1986 quarter for each zero point five (0 5) increase by which the September, 1986 13 week quarter CPI exceeds the June, 1986 CPI This allowance wilfbe paid on a separate COLA cheque to be provided no later than the first Friday of the week following the quarter
(d)	A similar comparison shall be made thereafter on the basis of CPI published every succeeding thirteen (13) week accounting period Notwithstanding the foregoing however, this allowance shall not exceed a maximum of one dollar and twenty-fivecents($1 25) per hourfor the contract year ending April 30,1991 and shall not exceed a total of one dollar and seventy-five cents ($1 75) for the contract year ending April 30, 1992
- 36 -
(e)	If there is a decrease in the CPI on the basis of the quarter to quarter comparison, the allowance shall be adjusted downward by using the formula mentioned above, but an employee's applicable hourly rate shall not be affected.
(f)	The COLA as calculated above shall not form part of an employee's applicable weekly or hourly rate as detailed inthe Wage Appendices of this Agreement, and shall not be included in the calculation of any form of pay, allowance or benefits except as is required by law or as provided by paragraph (a) of this appendix.
(g)	Continuation of the COLA formula shall be conditional upon the continued availability of theofficial CPI in present form and calculated on the same basis as in March, 1986. No adjustment retroactive or otherwise shall be made due to any revision which may be made in a published index, unless due to a mathematical error in its calculation.
(h)	Group VII Over the Road Tank Truck Drivers, while on mileage rate, shall be credited with one (1) hour for every forty (40) miles, for the purpose of the COLA calculations.
37
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
August 9, 1988
Re: Pension Plan Exit
During the 1988 round of negotiations, the following agreement was reached between the parties.
The employees of Monarch Fine Foods, members of Local 647 had collectively requested of the Union executive that they be allowed to exit from the Multi-Employer Pension Plan which exists for Local 647 members. The Union executive agreed to negotiate this demand and presented it during the collective bargaining process.
The Company agreed to this based upon complete exit of the plan by all members of our bargaining unit.
The Company agrees to pay directly to employees the sum of $12.50 per week which represented the Company’s portion of the premium paid on behalf of each member of the Pension Plan.
Deduction of the employee portion of the premium will cease. These changes will become effective when, following ratification of the amended contract, the Union executive arranges with the Plan Administrator for the completion of the exit procedures required by law in an expeditious manner as can be reasonably expected.
For the purpose of this contract, we will assume the effective date to be October 1, 1988. The exact date will be determined by the Union and the Plan Administrator.
Agreed for the Union: A. McConkey E. Sitahall A. Morley M. Reid M. Mask J. Parry R. DeBartok
Agreed for the Company: D.J. Brown P.P. Schur A.L. Saul
S.T. Ashby D. Dobbin
38
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
June 14, 1988
To: 
c:	S.T. Ashby
c:
D.J. Brown D. Dobbin R.K. George J. Shirt G.W. Swayze From:	A.L. Saul
Subject: Clarification of Work Responsibilities Operating Engineers
The Chief Engineer has total responsibility for Building Services sitewide for which purposes he will utilize skilled tradesmenfromthe I.U.O.E. Local 796, Teamster Local 647, and contractors.
Operating Engineers are designated to provide a service function to all areas of the site and are specifically responsible for the following duties, to monitor, maintain and service:
all steam, water, condensate and air lines up to and
including isolation valves off the mains in the
Packaging Plant Building
steam meters on steam mains (sitewide)
all ammonia equipment, piping and instrumentation.
To isolate ammonia from equipment.
steam heating equipment and connecting lines
located in the Packaging Plant Building and Fire
Pump Room
all sprinkler equipment and systems sitewide and including 100 Belfield Rd. Warehouse
all hot-water tracing equipment and piping in the oil room including hot water tank and controls
39
all chilled water equipment and piping
buildings and services including sewers and washrooms for Packaging Plant and Warehouse
all steam boilers and associated equipment compressors, associated equipment and pipelinesin the boiler room and 100 Belfield Rd. Warehouse all air handling and conditioning units installed in the Packaging Plant Building and 100 Belfield Rd. Warehouse and the filters in Lab air conditioning units in the Refineries
all gas fired heaters and piping sitewide
all supply and exhaust fans for Packaging Plant
Building and Warehouse
Under any emergency situation, the Chief Engineer and/or the Maintenance Manager is expected to use his best judgement in selecting personnel to secure the Plant and services.
A.L. Saul
Engineering Manager
40
LETTER OF INTENT
August 9 1988
Re: Maintenance Training
Over the term of the contract, in order to promote the training of interested Group 3A maintenance personnel, it is the intent of the Company to provide six (6) months training periods in each of the Fractionation Plant, Base Refinery, and Packaging Plant
The training will be limited to one such employee in the Packaging Plant and Fractionation Plant, and one in the Refinery at any one time
The Maintenance Manager will review the progress quarterly and advise the maintenance steward of his evaluation
Acknowledge for the Company D.J Brown Vice President.
Manufacturing
Acknowledge for the Union A McConkey Business Agent
41
LETTER OF INTENT
July 10, 1984 Re: Clause 16.01
During these negotiations the Company re-asserted its intent to comply with 16.01 by agreeing to instruct managers to communicate to the union steward involved the reasons for such outside work assignment.
Acknowledge for the Company:
D.J. Brown Vice President,
Manufacturing
Acknowledge for the Union:
R. Doner Business Agent
42
MEMO
Jan. 29, 1970
To: All Personnel
Application of Sick Pay Credits
Union agreement Article XII paragraph 12-10.
1.	Where an eligible employee is absent because of sickness or non-occupational accident and has established a claim under the weekly indemnity plan, or is absent due to occupational accident, such employee shall continue to receive sick pay credits at one half day per month during the period of absence, up to a maximum of six months.
2.	An eligible employee who is laid off in any calendar month must have 10 working days credit in that calendar month to qualify for sick pay credit.
3.	An eligible employee who is on leave of absence must have 10 working days credit in a calendar month to qualify for sick pay credit.
R. Wiggins,
General Superintendent RW/bjw
43
June 26, 1980
Mr G Chabassol,
Mr N Padley Business Agents Teamster Local 647 1885 Wilson Avenue Weston, Ontario M9M 1A2
Dear Sirs
Re: 1980 Negotiations
This letter is to confirm that during the course of these negotiations that Union and Managementdid agree to the following rules of practice
1	Apprentices in maintenance will not be laid off during the period of their apprenticeship and they may share in overtime if working with a tradesman
2	In the Packaging Plant an employee who works overtime shall be credited only for the hours worked
3	Given reasonable notice the Company will provide the use of the conference room to the business agent for pre-grievance meetings
4	All laboratory work will go through a supervisor if the laboratory supervisor is not available
5	Relief on Operator II (carton master) will follow order of seniority
Yours truly,
MONARCH FINE FOODS COMPANY LIMITED D J Brown
Director Technical Resources mil
44
cc: H. Bebbington G.J. Frey
B.	McDonald T. McEvoy M.S. Precious
C.	Ranger
Acknowledged for the Union G. Chabassol Business Agent
M. Reid B. Sharkey G. Sheffrin G. Warren Plant Notice Boards
45 -
APPENDIX
MONARCH FINE FOODS
All of the Welfare Pian Benefits stipulated in this Collective Agreement are provided through The Milk Drivers and Dairy Employees Local 647 Welfare Trust Fund. This. Fund Is managed by four Trustees representing Employeescontributing to the Fundunder this and other Collective Agreements, and fourTrustees appointed by Local Union 647. The Trustees hold Contracts of insurance that specify the Benefits contained in this Collective Agreement, as well as others. and determine Standard Rules of Eligibilityand Termination.
The following summary of your Benefits will provide you all of the information you need to determinewho is covered by the Pian, when you become covered and terminated and the Benefits under this particular Collective Agreement. Since the Benefitsare provided through Insurance Contracts, in the event of a dispute the Provisions of the Insurance Contractswill prevail.
GENERAL PROVISIONS
Eligibility
—	Employees who are members in good standing of Local Union 647 together with their spouse, and unmarried dependant children under Age 21, are eligible for benefits.
Effective Date of Benefits
—	All employees are required to complete an Application Card, recording necessary information about the employee and his/her dependants. This Card is available from the Company, Local Union 647 orthe Administrator. New employees are covered by the Plan on the first day of the calendar month following the first week for which the Company makes a contribution to the Trust Fund Employees hired or rehired by the Company are covered from the date of employment or
- 1 -
re-employment if they are covered by the Plan at any time during the sixty (60)days prior to such employment or re-employment.Employees covered by the Plan who are rehired by the Company in accordance with the lay-off/recall provisions of this Collective Agreement, will again be covered by the Plan on the date of re-employment.
Dependants of eligible employees are covered on the date the employee is covered, or the date they become dependants, whichever is later. If the employee is disabled on his/her effective date, all benefits are postponed until the date of return to full time employment. If the employee is covered by the Plan, and disabled on the effectivedate of an improvement or new Benefit, the employee and dependants remain covered by the old Plan until the employee returns to full time employment.
Your completed Application Card should be submitted to your Employer, who is required to submit that completed Card with the first Monthly Contribution Report on which the employee’s name is recorded.
Termination Date of Benefits
—	If employment terminates for any reason other than retirement, all benefits except Disability Income cease at the end of the month in which employment terminated. Disability Income Benefitscease on the last date employed. As noted later in this Summary, certain Benefits are continued for Retired Members.
Benefitsfor Active Employees and Retired Employees cease in the event that the Employer ceases contributions to the Trust Fund. The date of termination of such benefits will be determined in accordance with the date such contributions cease.
Retired Members’ Benefits
—	Upon retirement, members with at least five (5) continuous years’ coverage immediately preceding retirementare covered by $4,000 Life Insurance for the
— L —
first twelve (12) calendar monthsfoilowingthe month in which retirement commenced and $2,000 Life Insurance thereafter.
Effective with those employees who retire on or after September 1, 1984, and at that time are at least Age 60 and have at least twenty (20) years' service with the Company and have chosen Early Retirement, such employees will remain covered to Age 65 by the Prescription Drug Plan and effective October 1, 1988 Visioncare Plan coverage will be provided as described herein.
Continuation of Benefits During Disability
—	Employees who become disabled, and in receipt of a benefit from the Weekly Indemnity Plan, will remain covered by the benefits provided them at the onset of disability while so disabled, up to the Maximum Benefit period of the Weekly Indemnity Plan described herein. If the disability is compensable by Workers' Compensation, then the benefits described herein will be continued for one year or cessation of Workers' Compensation, whichever is earlier.
BENEFITS Life Insurance (Employee Only)
—	The benefit is provided by a Group Term Life Insurance Policy, which provides that premium payments are waived, 2nd the benefit at the onset of disability remains in force, up to Age 65, in the event of total and permanent disability occurring while insured and before Age 65. At Age 65, the Life Insurance Benefit for Retired Employees becomeseffective if the disabled employee has fulfilled the five (5) year coverage requirement.
Employees who terminate employment may convert to an individual Life Insurance Policy, without evidence of good health, by making written application to the Insurer within thirty-one (31) days of the date employment terminates.
Effective September 1, 1990 the Amount of Life Insurance will be $30,000.
Accidental Death and Dismemberment (Employee Only)
—This benefit providesthe paymentof a Principal Sum, or partthereof, for losses that occur within 365 days of a causative accident. In the case of loss of life, the benefit is payable to the employee's named beneficiary under the Life InsuranceBenefit;for other losses, the benefit is payable to the employee.
TABLE OF BENEFITS
For loss of:	Amount
Life (in addition to the Life Insurance) Principal Sum	
Both Eyes			 Principal Sum
Both Hands 			 Principal Sum
Both Feet 			 Principal Sum
One Hand and One Foot 			 Principal Sum
One Hand and Sight of One Eye .		 Principal Sum
One Food and Sight of One Eye .		 Principal Sum
One Leg 		3/4 Principal Sum
One Arm 		3/4 Principal Sum
One Hand 		.. Vi Principal Sum
Sight of One Eye 		.. 'h Principal Sum
Both the Thumb and Index Finger of One Hand 		.. 'A Principal Sum
The Principal Sum is the maximum payable for all losses due to any one accident. No benefitsare payable for losses due to intentionally self-inflicted injuries, suicide, declared or undeclared war, full time service in the armed forces, or while a crew member in any aircraft.
Effective September 1, 1990 the Principal Sum will be $30,000.
4
Short Term Disability Income Benefit — Non-occupational Disability Only (Employee Only)
—	Commencing on the first day of examination by a physician for total disability due to an accident, or the fourth such day for illness, the Plan pays a Weekly Benefit up to a specified Maximum Benefit period. "Total disability means the employee's inability to perform each and every duty of his/her occupation. Disabilities due to pregnancy are limited to fifteen (15) weeks unless there are complications. Disabilities separated by less than thirty (30) days of full time work are considered one disability, unless the subsequent disability is due to an unrelated cause and commences after the employee's return to work. The disability must be certified by a Medical Doctor.
Benefits are not payable unless the disabled employee is losing wages on account of the disability. Therefore, benefits are not payable for periods of time during which there are no lost wages, such as Vacation, Leave of Absence, etc.
WEEKLY BENEFIT -
$20 plus 66.6% of the Maximum UIC Weekly Insured Earnings, in effect at the onset of disability.
MAXIMUM BENEFIT PERIOD-39 weeks.
Semi-Private Hospital Benefit (Employee and Dependants)
—	The Plan pays the hospital's daily charge for the difference in cost between a semi-private room and standard ward.
Ambulance Benefit (Employee and Dependants)
—	Fornecessary ground ambulanceservice, to orfrom a hospital, the Plan paysthirty dollars ($30.00) for each period of Disability (as defined under the Disability
— 5 -
Income Plan). This amount is applicable to the deductible amount of OHIP's Ambulance Benefit, and does not duplicate in any way the OHIP Ambulance Benefit.
Special Accident Benefit (Employee and Dependants)
—	The Plan allows up to three hundred dollars ($300) for certain services or supplies received within three (3) months of a causative accident that is not covered by Workers' Compensation.
ELIGIBLE EXPENSES
1.	Hospital charges resulting from confinement
2.	Medical or surgical treatment of supplies
3.	Diagnostic services
4.	Services of a registered nurse
5.	Dental x-ray, or examination.
Long Term Disability Income Benefit (Employee Only)
—	Effective with disabilities commencing on or after August 1, 1982, a Monthly Income Benefit will be paid to employees who are totally disabled commencing with the exhaustion of the Short Term Disability Income Benefit provided herein. The employee will be regarded as “totally disabled” when the nature and degree of the disability is such that the employee cannot perform each and every duty of any occupation for which he/she is reasonably suited, having regard for education, training and experience. The Benefit is payable as long as the employee is “totally disabled”, and ceases upon the earliest of death, recovery or attainment of Age 65. Benefits are not payable for any disability resulting from intentionally self-inflicted injuries, while sane or insane; riots, insurrections or any act of war, or the commission of, or an attempt to commit, any criminal act. If the disability results from mental or nervous illness, the Monthly Benefit
- 6 -
otherwise payable shall be reduced by fifty percent (50%) during any period when the disabled employee is not hospitalized.
If the disabled employee is in receipt of a benefit under the Workers' Compensation Act, on account of the same disability, the Monthly Income Benefit otherwise payable under this Plan will be reduced, dollar for dollar, by any amounts payable under the Act.
If a disabled employee is int he “grey” area between total disability and total recovery, and attempts some form of “light work” under tine supervision of a physician, the L.T.D. Benefit will be reduced by 66.6% of income derived from such rehabilitative employment for up to two (2) years of such employment. If the employee cannot continue the employment for health reasons, he/she goes back on full L.T.D. Benefits; if still so employed after two (2) years, the L.T.D. Benefit ceases since he/she is no longer regarded as “totally disabled”.
The Monthly Income Benefit payable is determined by the Insurer's Premium for this benefit, in comparison with the Company's contribution for the benefit. Effective with disabilities commencing on or after September 1, 1990, the Monthly Income Benefit is $1,000. As previously noted, the Monthly Benefit for future claimants will be adjusted in the event that insurance premiums change.
Dental Care Plan No. 9 (Employee and Dependants)
— The Plan became effective August 1, 1982 and covers the following dentist's services:
1.	) Oral examinations, once every six (6) months.
2.	Prophylaxis (cleaning and scaling of teeth) once every six (6) months. This treatment is eligible if performed by a Dentist, or a Dental Hygienist under the direct supervision of a Dentist.
7
3.	Bite-wing x-rays, once every six (6) months.
4.	Topical application of an anti-cariogenic agent, once every six (6) months. This treatment is eligible if performed by a Dentist, or a Dental Hygienist under the direct supervision of a Dentist.
5.	Full mouth series of x-rays once every twenty-four (24) months.
6.	Extractions and simple alveolectomy at a time of tooth extraction.
7.	Surgical extraction of impacted teeth.
8.	Surgical removal of tumors, cysts, neoplasms,plus the incision and drainage of an abscess.
9.	Amalgam, silicate, acrylic, and composite fillings.
10.	Provision and space maintainers for missing primary teeth and provision of habit breaking appliances.
11.	Diagnostic x-ray and laboratory procedures required in relation to dental surgery.
12.	General anaesthetic required in relation to dental surgery.
13.	Consultation required by the attending Dentist.
14.	Endodontics and periodontics.
15.	Relining, rebasing, repair and adjustment of existing dentures.
16.	Effective September 1, 1988, partial or full dentures, limitedto one claim per person perthree year period.
EXCLUSIONS:
If the service arises from any of the following events,
no benefit is payable:
(a)	Intentional self-inflicted injuries or illness while sane or self-inflicted injuries while insane.
8
(b)	Any service for which the insured person isentitled to indemnity or compensation under any Workers' Compensation Act.
(c)	Cosmetic surgry or treatment (when so classified bythe insurer) unless such surgery ortreatment is for accidental injuries and commenced within ninety (90) days of an accident.
(d)	Services payable under any government plan of insuance, or insurable only under any government plan of insurance.
(e)	Injury resulting from insurrection, war, services in the Armed Forces of any country or participation in a riot.
BASIS OF PAYMENT
Effective with services/supplies received on or after January 1, 1991, the basis of payment will be the 1990
O.D.A. Fee Guide, General Practice.
Drug Plan
(Employee and Dependants)
—	The Plan pays the amount charged by a pharmacist, dentist, physician or hospital for prescribed drugs, prescribed vitamins, medicines, sera, injectibles, insulin and diabetic supplies. Patent medicines, and expenses covered by any other agency are not covered.
Visioncare Plan (Employee and Dependants)
—	Effective with prescriptions filled on and after October 1, 1988 the Plan will pay the amount charged by a Dispensing Optician or Optometrist for corrective lenses and frames prescribed by an Ophthalmologist or Optometrist, up to these maximums:
Single Lenses .................................. $135
Bifocal Lenses ................................. $200
Trifocal Lenses ................................ $225
9
Only one claim is allowed per insured person per twenty-four (24) consecutive months, except in the case of children requiring a more frequent change in lenses due to progressive myopia, hyperopia or astigmatism. In this case, and provided there is a change in the prescribed lenses, the above maximums apply each twelve (12) consecutive months.
Contact Lenses
— If you order contact lenses, hard or soft, the lifetime maximum is $300, effective October 1,1988. Once this maximum is reached, your future claims, for regular glasses or contact lenses, will be limited to the above twenty-four (24) month maximums.
Exclusions
The Plan will not pay for sunglasses, special tints, frame ornamentation or personification, or make any special allowance if your glasses or contact lenses are lost, stolen or broken.
Major Medical Plan (Employee and Dependants)
Effective July 1, 1986, this plan provides the following benefits:
DEDUCTIBLE -
There is no deductible.
CO-INSURANCE —
The Plan will pay one hundred percent (100%) cf the reasonable and customary charges incurred for Eligible Expenses.
MAXIMUM BENEFIT —
The maximum amount payable on account of any Insured Person (Employee or Dependant) is$10,000 in any consecutive thirty-six (36) month period. In the event that any person incurs Eligible Expenses of at least$1,000, the employee may make application to the
- 10 -
Insurer (through the Administrator) to have the $10,000 Maximum Benefit reinstated.
ELIGIBLE EXPENSES-
The following expenses are covered, on the express understanding that they are prescribed — that is, recommended — by the attending physician:
1.	Charges for the services of a Registered Nurse (R.N.) or Registered Nursing Assistant (R.N.A.)atthe insured individual’s residence, provided the R.N. or R.N.A. is not normally resident inthe insured person's home, or in a public general hospital.
2.	Charges for hospital services and supplies obtained from an out-patient department of a licensed hospital or surgical supply company while not confined in a hospital.
3.	Ambulance:	charges for licensed ambulance
service or other emergency service (including fare of an attendant where necessary) when used totransport the insured person from the place where bodily injury or disease is suffered to the nearest hospital where adequate treatment can be rendered or from one hospital to another or from hospital to the insured person’s residence.
4.	Services and Supplies: charges for the following services and supplies:
(a)	purchase of braces, crutches, surgical stockings, artificial limbs and eyes and prosthetic devices approved by the Insurance Company including surgical brassieres and breast prostheses required following a mastectomy
(b)	rental of or, at the Insurance Company's option, the purchase of a wheelchair, hospital-type bed, iron-lung, or other durable equipment for temporary therapeutic use
(c)	oxygen and blood serum
— II
(d)	orthopaedic shoes prescribed by a podiatrist or physician up to a maximum of one pair per calendar year.
5	Emergency Treatment charges for the following emergency treatment required by an insured person who is temporarily outside of their Province or Territory of residence
(a)	room and board in a licensed hospital up to ward level for each day that the person is confined in hospital
(b)	hospital services and supplies furnished by a licensed hospital
(c)	diagnosis and treatment by a physician or surgeon
6	Diagnostic X-Ray and Laboratory Expenses charges for diagnostic tests and radiological treatments including x-rays and laboratory tests and radium treatments
7	Physiotherapy charges for the services of a qualified Physiotherapist, who is not normally resident in the insured person's home
8	Speech Therapy charges for the services of a qualified Speech Therapist, up to a maximum payment of two hundred dollars ($200) per calendar year for each person
9. Hearing Aids. charges for hearing aids prescribed by a legally licensed Otolaryngologist, up to a maximum payment of four hundred dollars ($400)for one instrument per insured person in any four consecutive years.
LIMITS AND EXCLUSIONS —
No benefit will be paid if legislation prevents such payment Benefits will be reduced by amounts paid, or payable, by government plans such as OHIP
12
How to Claim Benefits
—	All claims, except those under the Drug Plan, are to be submitted on the proper form, along with appropriate bills or receipts, to the Administrator:
Employee Benefit Plan Services Suite 600, 300 John Street Thornhill, Ontario L3T 5W4 General Enquiry: 731-0802 Welfare Claims: 731-1412 Toll Free Number: 1-800-263-3564 (within Ontario)
Claims under the Drug Plan are to be submitted to the Plant Personnel Office. Dental Claim Forms are usually stocked by the Dentist. Claim Forms for Disability Income must be submitted through the Employer. Claim Forms can beobtained through your Employer, Union Office, or the Administator.
If you are making a claim under the Visioncare Plan, please be sure to enclose the bill or receipt from the Dispensing Optician or Optometrist.This bill or receipt must show comprehensive information in terms of what has been dispensed, and particularly include information regarding the change in lenses if the claim is being made for the annual change in children's glasses.
Submission of Claims
—	All claims, except Weekly Indemnity, must be submitted within ninety (90) days of the date the loss or expense is incurred. Weekly Indemnity claims must be submitted within two (2) weeks of the date a physician is first consulted for the disability.
Disclaimer
—	It is expressly understood and agreed that the information appearing above is a summary only, and that the eligibility of any person or claim will be governed by the terms of the Insurance Contract through which the benefits are provided.
- 13 -
Rate of Weekly Employer Contribution
—	The Company will pay the cost of all benefits described herein, unless within the Collective Agreement a specified amount of Employer Contribution is noted.
Administration
—	TheEmployeragreesthatthe benefits provided here will be provided through the Milk Drivers and Dairy Employees Local 647 Welfare Trust Fund, and that the required Weekly Contributions will be forwarded not later than the 15th of the month following the month for which the Report is submitted.
Contributions will be by cheque made payable to “The Milk Drivers Local 647 Welfare Fund” and forwarded along with the Report to the Administrator,
Employee Benefit Plan Services 300 John Street, Suite 600 Thornhill, Ontario L3T 5W4
14
Notify your Local Union Office of any change of address.
If you leave the industry
you must immediately request a Withdrawal Card from your Local Union Office.