THIS AGREEMENT dated the 6th day of December 1995, BETWEEN:
NESTLf: CANADA INC. • TRENTON FOODSERVICE PLANT (hereinafter referred to as the 'Company")
OF THE FIRST PART
- AND •
SERVICE EMPLOYEES UNION, LOCAL 183 (hereinafter referred to as the 'Union")
OF THE SECOND PART
Whereas the Ontario Labour Relations Board by Certificate dated the 24th day of July 1981, has certified the Union as the bargaining agent for the employees in the bargaining unit hereinafter described.
NOW THEREFORE THIS AGREEMENT WITNESSETH THAT:
INDEX
ARTICLE NQ.	EASE
NO.
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8 9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20 21 22
23
24
25
26 27
Purpose of Agreement Recognition Union Security Miscellaneous Strikes and Lockouts Bulletin Board Management Rights
Stewards, Union Committee and Supervisors
Policy Grievances
Grievance Procedure
Discipline Cases
Arbitration
Seniority
Layoff and Recall
Shift Assignment
Job Posting
Hours of Work & Overtime Vacations with Pay Paid Holidays Leave of Absence Alcoholism and Drug Addiction Workers' Compensation Classification of New Jobs Full-time Employee Benefit Plans Part-time Employee Benefit Plans Factory Closure Termination Schedule 'A"
Notes
LETTERS
2
2
2
3
3
4
4
5
6 6 8 9
10
13
15
17
20
25
27
28
30
31
31
32
34
35
36
37
38
Skilled Trades
Determination of Time for Wage Payments Shift Arrangements Maintenance Staff Shift Assignment Workplace Seating Workforce Composition Maintenance Standby Back-upThlrd Shift Sanitation • EPSU Work Breaks
Weekly Indemnity Advance
Company Bonus
Employee Recreation Fund
Implementation of the Flexible Work Week (FWW)
39
40
41
43
44
46
47
48
49
50
51
52 53'
1
ABI1CLE-1
ARTICLE 2
2.01
2.02
ARTICLE 3
3.01
3.02
3.03
PURPOSE OF AGREEMENT
The purpose of this Agreement is to provide an orderly collective bargaining relationship between the Company and the Union with reapaot to the Bargaining Unit es defined herein, to secure and promote the prompt disposition of grievances and the efficient operation of the Company business. This agreement shall be regarded as a complete and full statement of the relationship between the Company and the Union with respect to the Bargaining Unit defined herein and the employees concerned.
RECOGNITION
The Company recognizes the Union as the exclusive bargaining agent for all its employeesat Trenton, Ontario, save and except forepersons, persons above the rank of forepersons, office and sales staff.
Both the Union and the Company agree that no discrimination of any kind will be practiced or condoned against any employee by reason of sex, race, color, creed, religion, national origin, or age, except as provided under the Ontario Human Rights Code.
UNION SECURITY
As a condition of employment all employees shall be required to join the Union and pay initiation fees and Union dues as set down by the Local Union provided that the Company shall not be required to terminate an employee for reason that she was not taken into membership or that her Union Membership was terminated.
Union dues and initiation fees shall be deducted from the first pay during each calendar month and the Company shall remit the total sum deducted to the Secretary-Treasurer of the Local Union before the twenty-fifth (25th) day of the month. New employees will make payment of initiation fees upon hire and will commence payment of Union dues on the regular checkoff payroll which follows their completion of one full calendar month of employment.
When remittance is made, the Company will provide a list of all employees and the sums which were deducted from each employee.
The Union shall hold the Company harmless with respect to all dues so deducted and remitted, and with respect to any liability which the Company might incur as a result of such deduction and remission.
2
3.04
ARTICLE 4
4.01
4.02
4.03
4.04
ARTICLE.?
5.01
The Company will furnish each new smployM with a copy of the Collective Agreement et time of hire. All employeeswill be given revised copies of the Collective Agreement after each renewal and the Union will be given sufficient copies to meet it’s requirements, The cost of printing collective agreements will be shared equally by the parties.
MISCELLANEOUS
Where the feminine pronoun is used herein, it shall mean and include the masculine pronoun and vice versa.
Labour Management Committee ■ The parties shall form a Labour Management Committee to meet from time to time as mutually agreed.
Occupational Health and Safety • The Company will comply with the Occupational Health and Safety Act. The positions of Chairperson and Secretary will be rotated annually between the Company and the Union members of the Health and Safety Committee.
The Chairperson and the Secretary, or their designate, will accompany a safety inspector acting under the Occupational Health and Safety Act on any plant inspection.
Employees shall be paid for actual time spent in attendance at mandatory Company sponsored training programs or Healths Safety meetings at their regular hourly rate including overtime where applicable.
Employees shall be paid at their regular straight time hourly rate for actual time spent in voluntary Company sponsored training programs. Voluntary programs shall include those to which an employee agrees to undertake as a condition of acceptance for a posted job.
This provision 4.04 does not apply in the case of trade certlflcatlon/apprentlceship training programs.
External training/meetings: Employees who voluntarily attend off site Company meetings or training programs will be paid eight (81 hours at straight time. Travelling time will not be compensated.
STRIKES AND LOCKOUTS
In view of the orderly procedure established by this Agreement for the settling of disputes and the handling of grievances, the Union agrees that during the lifetime of this Agreement, there will be no strike, picketing, slowdown or stoppage of work, either complete or partial and the Company agrees that there will be no lockout..
3
5.02
5.03
ARTICLE 6 6.01
ARTICLE 7
7.01
The Company shall have the right to discharge or otherwise discipline employees who take part in or instigate any strike, picketing, stoppage or slow down but a claim of unjust discharge or treatment be the subject of a grlevsnce and deeft with as provided in Article 11.
Should the Union claim that a cessation of work constitutes a lockout, it may take the matter up with the Company es provided in Article 9.
BULLETIN BOARDS
The Company shall provide a bulletin board in the cafeteria for the exclusive use of the Union Local for posting non-inflammatory notices. A copy of such notices shall be provided to the Personnel Office at the time of posting.
MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
The Union recognizes and acknowledges that the management of the plant and direction of the working force are fixed exclusively in the Company and, without restricting the generality of the foregoing, the Union acknowledges that it is the exclusive function of the Company to:
a)	Maintain order and efficiency;
b)	Hire, promote, demote, classify, transfer, suspend and retire employees, and to discipline or discharge any nonprobationary employee for the just cause provided that a claim by an employee who has acquired seniority that he has been discharged or disciplined without just cause may be the subject of a grievance and deait with as hereinafter provided;
ci Make, enforce, and alter, from time to time, reasonable rules and regulations to be observed by the employees provided that new rules will first be discussed with the Union;
d) Determine the nature and kind of business conducted by the Company, the kinds and locations of plants, equipment and materials to be used, the control of materials end parts, the methods and techniques of work, the content of jobs, the schedules of production, the number of employees to be employed, the extension, limitations, curtailment or cessation of operations or any part thereof.
4
ABI1CLE-S
8.01
8.02
8.03
8.04
8.05
STEWARDS, UNION COMMITTEE AND SUPERVISORS
Union Committee • The Company agrees to recognize a Union Committee consisting of one (1) Chief Steward and up to a maximum of four (4) stewards selected by the Union. All members of the Union Committee shall be regular employeesof the Company and shall have at least six (6) months service with the Company.
The Company further acknowledges that the Union Committee will serve as the Union Negotiating Committee and agrees to deal with the said Committee with respect to any matter which properly arises from time to time during the term of this Agreement.
Stewards and Supervisors- The Union will inform the Company, in writing, of the names of the stewards and members of the Union Committee and of any subsequent changes in the names of any steward or member of the Union Committee. The Company shall not be asked to recognize any steward or member of the Union Committee until such notification from the Union has been received. The Company shall supply to the Union a list of employees acting In a supervisory capacity and their job titles.
A steward shall not lose straight time pay for time spent in discussions with management about existing grievances provided that:
a)	She shall first obtain the permission of her Supervisor before leaving her work (which permission shall not be unreasonably withheld);
b)	This shall not include time spent at Arbitration hearings;
C) The Company retains the right to limit such time if it seems excessive:
d) A Grievance Committee shall be limited to the Chief Steward and one (1) other steward at any meetings.
The Company will pay members of the Negotiation Committee one-haif (112) of their regular wages for time actually spent in negotiations. The maximum payment for any meeting day shall be four (4) hours at the employee's regular hourly rate or in other words one-half (1/2) of eight (8) hours.
Notwithstanding the above payment shall not be made for negotiation meetings which are held on weekends or after commencement of conciliation.
Non-bargaining Unit employees shall not be permitted to perform bargainingunlt work except in the following situations:
5
ARTICLE 9
9.01
9.02
ARTICLE 10
10.01
10.02
|) instructing or training employees and demonstrating the correct use of tools/ equipment;
il) product experimentation and production trials;
lii). acting to prevent an accident or injury to an employee or to prevent product or equipment damage: and
iv) when regular employees are not available.
POLICY GRIEVANCES
it is understood that the Management may institute a grievance alleging a violation of any contractual obligations undertaken by the Union in writing at Step No. 3 of the grievance procedure, providing that it is presented to the Chief Steward, or her designate, within five (5) working days after the circumstances giving rise to the grievance occurred, Such grievance shall be signed by the Factory Manager or his designate.
The Union may institute a grievance consisting of an allegation of a general misinterpretation or a violation by the Company of this Agreement in writing at Step No. 3 of the grievance procedure providing that it is presented within five (5) working days after the circumstances giving rise to the grievance originated or occurred and provided that it Is a matter in regard to which an individual employee could not grieve. Such grievance shall be signed by the Chief Steward and/or Union Representative.
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
The parties of this Agreement are agreed that it is of the Utmost importance to adjust complaints and grievances as quickly as possible and at the lowest possible step.
No complaint or grievance shall be considered unless it relates to the interpretation, application, administration or alleged violation of this Agreement or where the circumstances giving rise to it occurred more than five (5) working days before filing of the complaint or grievance.
6
10.03
10.04
10.05
Complaints and Grievances shall be adjusted and settled as follows:
StflP.ND.-1.
The aggrieved employee shall present her complaint verbally to her Supervisor in a meeting specifically intended for this purpose. She shall have the presence of a Steward If she so desires. If a settlement satisfactory to the employee concerned is not reached within five (5) working days, the complaint may be carried forward to Step No. 2 of the Grievance Procedure at any time within five (5) working days thereafter as per Article 10,02.
The parties agree that any settlement reached at this stage of the Grievance Procedure shall be without admission of liability on the part of any party and shall apply only to the case at hand. It is further understood and agreed that any settlement reached at this stage of the Grievance Procedure will not set any precedent and will not be referred to or in any way relied upon by either party in any future cases.
Step Noj.2
The aggrieved employee may with her steward present the grievance in written form to the Department Manager who shall render his decision in writing within five (5) working days following the presentation of the grievance to him. If a settlement satisfactory to the employee is not reached the grievance may be carried forward to Step No. 3 at any time within five (5) working days after the rendering of the Department Manager's decision.
Step Nq^.3.
The aggrieved employee may submit her grievance in writing to the Plant Manager, or his designate who shall arrange a meeting with the said employee within five (5) working days from the receipt of the grievance at Step No. 3. At this meeting the aggrieved employee may be accompanied by the Grievance Committee and a full-time representative of the Union.
If final settlement of the grievance is not completed within five I5| working days of the meeting referred to at Step No. 2 the grievance may be referred by either party to a Board of Arbitration as provided in Article 1 2, at any time within ten (10) days thereafter, but no later.
Working days shall mean Monday through Friday excluding Paid Holidays.
7
10.06
10.07
10.08
ARTICLE 11 11.01
11.02
The failure to carry a complaint or grievance forward in accordance with the time limits set forth In Article 9, 10, a-11 shall be deemed to indicate that the complaint or grievance has been dropped unless both parties have mutually agreed to an extension of the stipulated time limits.
if at any step, the Company's Representative fails to provide a response as required by the complaint or Grievance Procedure, the employee may, with Union consent, appeal the complaint or grievance to the next step.
Group Complaint or Grievance • Where a complaint or grievance affects more than one employee with substantially the seme interest they may present the same complaint or grievance and it shall be processed in the same manner as an individual complaint or grievance,
DISCIPLINE CASES
Where a record of verbal warning or a written warning is placed in the employee's file, the employee will be given two (2) copies with the explanation that one (1) copy Is to go to the Union if the employee so desires. The Company will give the Union a copy of any suspension or discharge notice as soon as possible after it has been given to the employee.
Upon receipt of said copies the employee must sign the original copy on their file to indicate that they did in fact receive the copies but not to admit guilt or to agree with the action taken by the Company. Any unjust action may be the subject of a grievance In the case of an employee who has attained seniority.
When the Company advises a seniority employee of a suspension or discharge, a Union Steward shall be present at the meeting as an observer. The absence of a Steward, because of unavailability, shall not prevent the Company from suspending an employee pending investigation.
In the event of an employee, who has attained seniority, being suspended or discharged from employment and the employee feeling that an injustice has been done, the case may be taken up as a grievance.
8
The employment of a probationary employee may be terminated at the discretion of Management.
11.03
11,04
11,05
ARTICLE 12
12.01
12,02
12.03
12.04
12.05
A claim by an employee who has attained seniority, that she has bean unjustly suspended or discharged from her employment shall be treated as a grievance if a written statement of such grievance signed by the employee, is lodged with the Factory Manager within five (5) working days after the employee is notified of her discharge. All preliminary steps of the Grievance Procedure prior to Step No. 2 will be omitted in such case.
Such special grievance may be settled by confirming the Management's action in dismissing the employee, or by reinstating the employee in her former position with full compensation for time lost, or by any other arrangementwhich isjust and equitable in the opinion of the conferring parties or of the Board of Arbitration, as the case may be.
All disciplinary records of an employee shall be removed from an employee file if she established a clear record for twelve (12) calendar months.
ARBITRATION
Both parties to this Agreement agree that any dispute or grievance concerning the interpretation, application, administration or alleged violation of this Agreement, which has been properly carried through all the steps of the Grievances Procedure outlined in Article 10 above and which has not been settled, will be referred to a Board of Arbitration at the request of either of the parties hereto.
The Board of Arbitration will be composed of one person appointed by the Company, one person appointed by the Union, and a third person to act as Chairperson chosen by the other two members of the Board.
Within ten (10) working days of the request by either party for a Board, each party shall notify the other of the name of its appointee.
Should the person chosen by the Company to act on the Board, and the person chosen by the Union fail to agree on a third person within fifteen (15) working days of the notification mentioned in Section 12.03 above the Office of Arbitration, Ministry of Labor will be asked to nominate a Chairperson.
The decisions of a Board of Arbitration, or a majority thereof, constituted In the above manner shall be final and binding on both parties.
9
12.06
12.07
12.08
ARTICLED
13.01
13.02
The Board of Arbitration shall not have any power to alter or change any of the provisions of this Agreement or to substitute any new provisions for any existing provisions, nor to give any decision Inconsistent with the terms and provisions of this Agreement.
Each of the parties to this Agreement will bear the expenses of the nominee appointed by it; and the parties will jointly bear the expenses, if any, of the Chairperson.
Sole Arbitrator • In the event that one party wished to submit a grievance to arbitration and is content that the matter be dealt with by a Sole Arbitrator as opposed to a tripartite Board of Arbitration as here-in before referred to, the party submitting the grievance to arbitration shall so signify when advising the other party and shall advise as to three (3) alternative choices as to a Sole Arbitrator in addition to that party's nominee to a tripartite board.
The recipient of the notice shall in reply advise as to its nominee to a tripartite Board and three alternative choices as to a sole arbitrator. If the parties can agree to a sole arbitrator within twenty (20) days of the notice referring the matter to arbitration, the matter shall be determined by a sole arbitrator and failing such agreement the regular arbitration procedure shall apply.
SENIORITY
An employee will be considered probationary for the first ninety (90) working days during an eighteen (18) month period and will have no seniority rights during that period. Her employment may be terminated at any time during such probationary period at the discretion of Management and such termination shall not be subject to the Grievance Procedure. After completion of probation, her seniority shall date back to a date ninety (90) calendar days prior to the date on which she completed her probationary period. In the case of employees completing their probationary period on or after December 1, 1985 seniority shall date back to date of hire upon completion of their probationary period.
There shall be separate seniority lists for full-time and part-time employees.
A revised copy of the seniority lists shell be posted on the appropriate bulletin board and copies sent to the Union office in January and July of each year. The lists shall indicate part-time and full-time employees at the time of preparation in descending order of seniority, if the accuracy of the lists is not challenged within thirty (30)calendar days of posting, the lists shall be deemed to be correct.
10
13.03
13.04
13,05
13.06
Full-time seniority shall accumulate only while the employee holds a full-time posted position.
in the event that an employee transfers from the full-time to the part-time seniority list, without interruption as in Article 13.06, a record will be kept in her personnel file of her full-time seniority at the time of transfer. Should she subsequently return to a full-time position, she will be credited with the full-time seniority which was previously accumulated.
It is understood that full-time employees who elect part-time work as per Article 14,06 shall accumulate full-time seniority for a period up to their preexisting full-time seniority or twelve (12) months, whichever is less. Thereafter, part-time seniority is accumulated.
Part-time seniority shall accumulate only while the employee holds a part-time position.
In the event that an employee transfers from the part-time seniority list to the full-time seniority list, without interruption as in Article 13,06, a record will be kept in her personnelfile of her part-time seniority at the time of transfer. Should she subsequently return to a part-time position, she will be credited with the part-time seniority which was previously accumulated.
An employee shall accumulate seniority under any of the following conditions:
a)	While she is at work for the Company, after she has completed her probationary period as set out in Section
13.01.
b)	During any period when she is prevented from performing her work for the Company by reason of illness or injury for period of time equal to her preexisting seniority to a maximum of twenty-four (241 months.
An employee’s reinstatement after sick leave of three (3) days or more will be conditional on her supplying a certificate from a physician that she is fully recovered from the sickness which caused her absence. A certificate may also by required in cases of suspected abuse or when the Company feels food safety may be at risk.
c)	During any absence due to layoff or written leave of absence for a period of time equal to her preexisting seniority to a maximum of twelve (12) months.
Seniority and employment shall terminate when an employee:
a)	Voluntarily resigns:
11
13,07
13.08
13,09
b)	Isdlscharged and is not reinstated through tho Grievance Procedure or Arbitration;
c)	Has been absent due to written leave of absence or layoff for a time longerthan her preexisting seniority to a maximum of twelve (12) months (maximum of twenty-four (24) months for Illness or injury);
d)	Failsto report for work within seven (7) calendar days after being notified by the Company, following a layoff, cr fails to inform the Company within two (2) working days of recall that she will report for work;
e)	Falls to return to work promptly upon termination of an authorized leave of absence, or utilizes a leave of absence for purposes other than those for which the leave of absence was granted;
f)	Has been absent from work more than two (2) consecutive working days without notifying the Company (except for circumstances beyond the employee's control) and providing e reasonable explanation of her absence;
g)	In the case of a part-time employee, the employee misses, refuses or cannot be contacted to work a 'scheduled' shift assignmentwithout providing a reasonable explanation on three (3) occasions within a three (3) month period.
Where a part-time employee elects not to accept a special "call-in' shift assignment, this does not constitute a refusal.
Forthe purpose of this 13.06 (g) a 'scheduled' shift shall mean a shift which is scheduled the day before the employee is required to work.
An employee terminated according to Article 13,06 (c) because of illness or accident may make an application for re-employment. Provided she Is able to resume her former job, the Company shall give her every consideration for re-employment and the parties shall discuss her seniority standing.
Where an employee has attained the age of sixty-five (66) years, the Company shall have the right, at its option, to lay her off, or to retire her, without regard to the seniority provisions of this Agreement. Each case will be dealt with on Its own merits.
In the event that an employee covered by this Agreement should be promoted to a supervisory or confidential position beyond the scope of this Agreement, she shall retain the seniority previously acquired and shall have added thereto the seniority accumulated during the first year of service in such supervisory or confidential capacity.
12
14.01
14,02
14.03
Should the employee return to the bargaining unit within six (6) months of her promotion she shall return to the position she previously held which would result in bumping of ell positions involved. If at the Company's discretion the employee returns to the bargaining unit after an absence of longerthan six (6) months she shell return to a full-time position provided that this does not result in the downgrading of any other full-time employees.
LAYOFF AND RECALL	-j_,o
a)	Further to Article 16.1o)where an individual's ownj ob is not available for four (4) davs or less, the Company will assign the individual other work if such work is available. Further in determining such assignments, it is the Company's practice to attempt to assign the more senior employees the higher rated of the work which is available where this is practical. The application of the above practice is subject always to the following conditions:
i)	Employees must be fully qualified and capable of performing any work to which they are assigned.
Ii) Such reassignments must not result in the displacement of employees in posted jobs. For the purpose of this article, a Line Associate is not considered a posted job.
b)	Layoffs which are anticipated to be five (5) or more working days shall be based on the following factors:
I) full-time seniority in the case of a layoff involving fulltime employees, or part-time seniority in the case of a lay-off involving part-time employees;
ii)	skill and ability required for the job.
It is understood that where the qualifications referred to in factor (ii) above are relatively equal, factor (l)wiII govern.
The foregoing layoff formula shall be applied by groups in the following sequences provided the remaining work force has the skill and ability required to perform the available work:
In the Case of Full-time Employees
i)	Temporary employees
ii)	Probationary employees
iii)	Seniority employees
In the Case of Part-time Employees
i) Temporary employees II) Probationary employees ill) Seniority employees
When increasing the work force after a layoff employees will be recalled in order of seniority provided that the resulting work force has the required skill and ability to perform the available work.
13
14.04
14,05
14.06
A full-time employee shall acquire the right to bump employees with less plant seniority from other jobs only when her regular job is permanently eliminated, In such event the bumping procedure shall be as follows:
i)	. The Company will endeavor to place the employee in a position at a rate of pay equal to that of her previous position.
II) Where it proves impossible to find a replacement position in 14.04(i) the full-time employee shall be allowed to displace the most junior employee from any job in any classification which is at a level equal to or lower than that of the eliminated position provided that in the opinion of the Company she has the required skill and ability to do the job.
Displacement into a higher classification shall be allowed in accordance with the terms of this article but only in circumstances where senior employees would otherwise be laid off outside of seniority.
in the evaluation of skill and ability as referred to in Articles
14.01,	14,02, 14,03, 14,04, and 14,09, the Company shall be the judge, provided however, that if an employee believer that a proper consideration of her skill and ability (which shall include reliability, experience and where relevant, physical fitness) has not been given, she may file a grievance underthe proceduresof Article 10 claiming that the Company acted in an arbitrary, unfair or unfairly discriminatory manner.
(a) In the event of a layoff affecting full-time employees, the employees so affected shall have the option of:
i)	accepting transfer to part-time status; or
ii)	being placed on layoff status
In either case, such employeeswill be subject to recall to fulltime employment as per Article 14,03.
(b)	Employees who elect a transfer to part-time status es per Article 14,06 (a) (I) will be employed on a day to day basis prior to any remaining part-time employees to perform such scheduled or call-in work as arises prior to their recall to fulltime work.
Such work will be allocated to these transferred employees on a rotational basis.
(c)	After one (1) year employeeswill revert back to part-time status and will lose their full-time recall rights.
14
14.07
14.08
14.09
14,10
The Company shall notify an employee of her recall to work by telephoning the last number on record with the Company. Where the Company is unable to contact the employee by telephone, recall notice will be sent by registered mail to the last address on record with the Company. The employee Is solely responsible for their proper address and telephone number being on record with the Company.
The notification shall state the job to which the employee is to be recalled and the date and time at which the employee shell report to work.
It is the sole responsibility of the employee to notify the Company of her intention to return to work within two (2) working days of receiving her notice of recall end return to work within seven (7) calendar days after receiving recall notice.
The Company will advise the Union as early as possible of any layoff which Is expected to continue for more than five |5) working days.
For the purpose of layoff and recall of more than five (5) days, the Stewards and Chief Steward shall have preferential seniority provided they have skill and ability required to perform the available work.
The Company shall give notice of termination according to the Employment Standards Act.
ARTICLE 15 SHIFT ASSIGNMENT
15,01	a) Full-time employees will be'permitted to transfer to a
preferred shift if entitled by seniority and provided the resulting work force has the skill and ability required to perform the work on each respective shift. .
There shall be four (4) shift election opportunities each year. In advance of the specified election dates the Company will canvass full-time employees to determine if any wish to transfer from one shift to another.
A full-time employee who posts on to a new Jobmay, once having passed the trial period, have at that time an opportunity to bump a more junior full-time employee In the same job on a preferred shift provided the resulting work force has the skill and ability required to perform the work on each respective shift. If this opportunity is not taken she must wait for the next shift election opportunity.
15
15.02
15.03
b)	Where It becomes necessary to reschedule fulMIme employees working shifts the Company will attempt to meet its requirements by canvassing employees on a voluntary basis. Where this proves Impossiblethe Company will reschedule employees In the reverse order of their seniority
. provided that the resulting workforce has the skill and ability required to perform the work on each respective shift.
c)	Where it has been necessary, under 15.01 (a) or 15.01 (b) to schedule a senior employee to a shift which is against her preference, that employee shall have the option of transferring to her preferred shift by replacing a more junior employee when the junior employee has become fully qualified on the job.
d)	The parties agree that clauses 15,01 (at and 15.01 (b) shall not apply in the case of maintenance staff, quality control and sanitation personnel. It is further agreed that the Company will maintain its present practices with respect to shift assignment and rescheduling for these employees.
Work will be allocated to the part-time work force on a full rotational basis. The order of employees on the scheduling rotation list, shall be the same as that on the part-time seniority list.
When Increasing the part-time work force with new employees, in the interest of proper training Management reserves the right to place those employees on to the part-time rotation list out of seniority in a staggered manner for work scheduling only for a maximum of thirty (30) calendar days per employee.
It is further agreed that third shift back upEPSU work will be assigned to part-time employees according to the parties' Letter of Understanding.
Part-time employees will be responsible for checking the posted work schedule for subsequent days prior to leaving the Plant after completion of their shift. Where such posted schadule(s) indicates that the employee Is scheduled to work on a subsequent day(s) they will be deemedto have been notified of a regular shift assignment.
if a part time employee will not be working prior to her next shift assignment she will contact the factory office by 1:30 p.m, to determine if she is scheduled to work the subsequent day. If the factory office has not been contacted, the employee will be contacted at the last telephone number which the employee has provided. If the factory office is unable to contact the employee at such number the shift shall be considered a 'refusal' for the purposes of 13,06 (g).
16
15.04	The Company agrees that on or before Friday of each week it will post a tentative production schedule for the subsequent week.
The partiea further recognize that due to the nature of the plant's operations, this production schedule is subject to ongoing modification.
15.05	Shift Premium: Effective November 1, 1991, a shift premium of thirty-six ($0,36) cents per hour will be paid for any shift commencing between 12:00 noon and 8:00 p.m, A shift premium of fifty-six ($0.56) cents per hour will be paid for any shift commencing between 8:00 p.m. and 4:00 a.m.
ARTICLE 16 JOB POSTING
16,01	a) in the event that new jobs are created or vacancies occur in
existing job classifications as per Schedule 'A" the Company will post the Initial opening resulting from such new job or vacancy for a period of seven (7) calendar days. The posting shall stipulate the classification, rate, shift, and department concerned to allow existing employees to apply before new employees are hired.
Temporary jobs or vacancies which are anticipated to exist for thirty (30) calendar days or less need not be posted.
b)	in the event that job vacancies result from an initial job posting which are anticipated the Company will post the second and third job opening resulting from the initial job opening for a period of seven 17) calendar days. In the event that subsequent vacancies occur, criteria for selection shall be seniority, skill and ability on the basis laid out in Article 16,04(8).
c)	If after completing their trial period an employee is bumped from their posted job due to lack of work and that job subsequently becomes available within twelve (12) months, they will be given the opportunity to return to their former job, In the event 2 or more people were displaced from the same job the most senior employee will have first option to return.
Employees who return to their former job in this manner will be subject to the complete entitlement periods specified in Article 16.02 to be calculated from their date of return to the job.
17
16.02
16.03
16.04
16.05
16.06
16.07
16,08
Employees will not be eligible to bid during their trial period or for four (41 months after successfully completing the trial period. The above eligibility periods may be waived upon mutual consent of the parties.
Notwithstanding the above, employees holding Line Associate jobs shall be eligible to apply for available jobs at any time.
Where an employee surrenders a posted job as provided in 16.07 (a) and the Company agrees that she was unable to perform that job the employee shall not be required to reestablish her eligibility.
A new job or vacancy shall not be advertised outside the Company for the first two (2) days following its posting inside.
a)	All applications received will be considered within seven (7) days of the end of the posting procedure. The Company shall fill the posting only after considering the seniority, skill and ability of the applicants. Where the skill and ability of two (2) or more applicants are relatively equal, seniority shall govern. Skill and ability shall include reliability, experience and where relevant, physical fitness.
b)	In considering applicants for a full-time job, preference shall go to full-time applicants first before part-time applicants are considered. All applicants will be considered for part-time positions.
When a position is filled by means of the job posting procedure, the name of the successful applicant shall be posted.
All job posting shall be removed from the bulletin board immediately at the end of the period for posting as per Article
16.01	(a) and the Chief Steward shall receive a copy of the posting at that time and shall also receive a copy of the names of successful applicants.
if, during the earlier of the first forty-five (45) working days on the job or sixty (60) working days in the plant, the employee proves unsatisfactory or if the employee feels she is unable to perform the duties of the vacancy to which she posted, the employee will he returned to her former job and rate of pay, as will any other employee in the bargaining unit who was promoted or transferred by reason of such placing.
It is understood that employees shall only have seniority rights to a job when they have passed the trial period. Nor will they have seniority rights to their previous posted position if there is a layoff of four (4) days or less. Employees will be placed as per Article
14.01.
Nothing shall prevent the Company from filling the vacancy at its discretion during the posting process.
18
16.09
16.10
16,11
16.12
16.13
Where none of the applicants has the required skill and/or ability the Company may hire from outside.
Temporary Transfers - In the event an employee's regular job is available and for the convenience of the Company, the employee Is transferred to another job for which the rate of pay is different from that in effect for such employee's regular job, the employee shall be paid the higher rate while so employed.
Except as provided above employees will be paid the rate applicable to the work they perform.
Where an employee is temporarily placed on a job without a posting procedure, the skill and ability acquired by the employee while filling the job temporarily shall be ignored in the event a permanent vacancy subsequently arises which involves the same work except relative to other candidates for the permanent job who were given the opportunity to take the temporary job placement.
Back-up positions exist to provide trained employees in case incumbents in key jobs are absent, and for temporary excess workloads. A back-up position is not a job posting. It is a temporary transfer as per Article 16.01, 16,10 and 16,11 of the Collective Agreement. As such, by being given a back-up position an employee does not give up their regular posting. Employees designated to a back-up position have rights to weekend overtime after posted incumbents If the designated back-up employee worked the previous shift on the back-up job.
Management reserves the right to restrict an employee from being selected and trained to be a designated back-up. Such a right would be exercised when it is foreseen that the employee may not be available for the back-up assignment on a dependable basis. Management will consider the most qualified employee first when selecting from a volunteer list. However, where qualifications are relatively equal the most senior employee will be selected.
Part-time employees selected for a back-up assignment may be pulled out of the normal rotation to fulfill their back-up obligations.
a)	Lead Hands • The Company will decide when and where Lead Hands will be required for the efficient operation of the factory. When required the Company will appoint such Lead Hands giving due consideration to required leadership ability, job knowledge and seniority.
The Company will select a Lead Hand from a list of applicants and the most senior will be first considered. Alt applicants responding to a Lead Hand advertisement will be interviewed and reasons for refusal given in writing to any applicant more senior than the applicant chosen.
19
ARTICLE 17
17.01
17.02
17,03
The job posting provisions of this Agreement shall not apply to the appointment of Lead Hands or the filling of Lead Hand vacancies.
b)	A Lead Hand assists in directing the work of employees while ’ continuing to perform her other regular job duties as defined by Management on an ongoing basis. In the course of her assignment as a Lead Hand she may also be required to perform work regularly done by the employees she leads.
A Lead Hand shall not assume any of the employee relations supervisory responsibilities that properly belong to forepersons or other management staff such as reprimanding or disciplining employees. This does not preclude a Lead Hand from advising an employee that she is violating a work rule.
HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
The following sections and paragraphs are intended to define the normal hours of work and shall not be construed as a guarantee of hours of work per day or per week, or of days of work per week.
a)	The regular work week for full-time employees shall consist of forty (40) hours and the regular work day shall consist of eight (8) hours.
b)	The regular work week shall be Monday through Friday (including shift starting Friday evening) except for those persons who have been hired or agreed to a work week which Includes Saturday.
Notwithstanding the above paragraph of this 17,02 lb) a set up, wet/dry prep, or maintenance shift commencing on or after 2200 hours on a Sunday shall be considered a Monday shift.
Overtime at the rate of time and one-half an employee's individual hourly rate will be paid for all work performed over eight (8) hours in any day as per the parties' Letter of Intent and provided the employee works his full assigned work week except where the employee notifies the Company as long in advance as possible and at least prior to the commencement of the shift end provides a reasonable explanation for his absence.
Overtime shall be paid for all hours worked on the sixth shift in any calendar week at time and one-half, and on the seventh shift in any calendar week at double time subject to the same conditions as above respecting daily overtime.
20
17.04
17.05
17,06
17.07
17.08
17.09
To avoid pyramiding or duplication any overtime hours which are compensated at overtime rates under any provision shall not be counted further for any purpose in determining overtime liability under the same or any other provision.
it Is understood that overtime shall be done by the qualified employees who normally perform the work on the shift in respect of which overtime is required. The Company shall give notice of overtime as far in advance as possible.
It is further agreed that employees may be excused from overtime if they have a valid reason and if the Company is able to obtain a work force which is qualified to perform the overtime work.
Where there is a requirement for overtime, the work shall be assigned in the following manner:
I) The employees who normally perform the work will be canvassed to do the work and the senior volunteers will do the work.
ii)	If (i) above fails to provide the required overtime work the junior full-time employees normally performing the work shall be obliged to do the work.
With respect to the assignment of Saturday and Sunday overtime, the Company shall employ the procedure outlined in Article 17.06,
When an employee reports for work on a regularly scheduled working day and upon her arrival at the plant finds no work is available for her, unless she has been notified at least one hour prior to the start of the shift not to report, she shall be paid four (4) hours or more at her regular hourly rate. If she is offered other work for which she is physically fit, for four (4) hours or more at her regular hourly rate, and she refuses such work, she shall not be eligible to receive the four (4) hours' reporting pay above provided for.
The provisions of this section shall not apply if the failure of the Company to provide work is due to fire, flood, power or equipment failure, labor dispute, or other Interference with Company operations beyond the reasonable control of the Company.
Where an employee's scheduled starting time is changed but the employee is not notified of the change prior to reporting to work, the employee shall be treated as if her shift was to commence at the time she considered she was to report to work.
Posting of a work schedule prior to an employee's departure from the plant shall be deemed notification of shift starting time for the following day(s) as will telephone or personal contact.
21
17.10
17.11
17,12
17,13
17,14
Where a line breaks down or line production Is completed prior to the and of an eight (8) hour shift, the senior volunteers from that line shall have the option of going home or remaining at work to perform any work which the Company determines to be available provided they have the skill and ability and also provided that no other employees are displaced from their jobs.
Call-Back:	Where an employee Is called back to work after
having left the premises she will be given a guaranteed minimum pay equal to four (4) hours at time and one-half the straight time hourly rate for such call-back. If the call-back is within four (4) hours of the commencement of her scheduled shift, she will be paid at the rate of time and one-half for all hours prior to the commencement of the shift, provided she works her full scheduled shift.
Scheduled Overtime: An employee scheduled to check the plant or equipment on a weekend day or holiday shall be paid the greater of four (4) times her regular straight time hourly rate or overtime at the applicable rate for the hours actually worked.
Two (2) twenty (20) minute paid breaks shall be given in each shift. Employees shall be ready to commence work promptly at the end of the break. Such breaks shall be in lieu of other coffee or lunch breaks. In case of daily overtime in excess of one (1) hour, ten (10) minute break will be scheduled at the start of the overtime period.
a)	Shift Scheduling for Stationary Engineers
This article is to vary certain terms of the current Collective Agreement between Nestle Canada Inc., Trenton Foodservice Plant, hereinafter called the ‘Company’ and Service Employees Union, Local 183, hereinafter called the ’Union’. With the exception of specific variations set forth in this Article all other conditions and terms of the Collective Agreement shall remain in force and effect.
b)	Purpose
The purpose of this agreement is to enable the Company to operate the power and refrigeration plants on a twelve (12) hour shift schedule and to provide some assurance to crew members of their scheduled deys off. This schedule may be discontinued in any area by the Company when: al there are adverse effects on the service of the plants to the factory, b) inability to provide a workable staffing schedule, or c) where the Company wishes to do so for other reasons which are neither unreasonable or arbitrary.
22
c)	Schedule and Rotation
Such a schedule shall normally consist of six different positions, with each employee occupying one position for a period of four weeks. Four Operator positions will be scheduled as twelve (121 hour shifts and two Maintenance positions as eight (8) hour shifts. Each employee will rotate equally through all positions on the shift schedule.
d)	Wage Payment
A regular forty (401 hour work week will be paid at the applicable rate of pay for a fully completed week as per the schedule. Any scheduled hours missed which do not qualify for pay as per the Collective Agreement will be deducted from the forty hours each week.
All hours worked over twelve (12) on the Operator's twelve (12) hour shift will be compensated at time plus one half the regular hourly rate and paid each week.
All hours worked over eight (8) on the Maintenance eight (8) hour shift will be compensated at time plus one half and paid each week.
Every two weeks any hours worked over eighty (80) in the preceding two weeks which have not already been paid at premium rate will be paid for at time plus one-half.
e)	Relief Assignments
The Company reserves the right to alter an employee's normally scheduled assignment at any time to accommodate the relief of absent employees. The employee whose schedule is so altered will be paid according to the conditions laid out for the shift they have been transferred to.
At such times when such a shift transfer causes the employee to work less than the planned eighty (80) hours per two week schedule the employee shall be given the option to make up the difference in hours during the same two week schedule. Such time will be paid at straight time rate, and will be scheduled at mutual convenience of the employee and the supervisor.
23
f)	Scheduled Holidays
This agreement is not intended to provide any additional pay, or paid time away from work. Therefore, with reference to Article 19,02 (c) of the Collective Agreement holiday pay will • be given to the two Operating Engineers at time plus one-half for actual hours worked plus either eight (8) hours holiday pay or one eight (8) hour day in lieu of holiday pay. Effective January 1, 1994, notwithstanding the above, the four (4) floater holidays in 19,02 (c) may be scheduled any time during the year subject to the Chief Engineer’s approval and with at least two (2) weeks notice.
g)	Shift Premium
Employees scheduled on the twelve (12) hour shifts will not be paid shift premium in the usual manner. Both the applicable second shift premium and third shift premium ($.36/hr. and $,56/hr. respectively as per the Contract) will be paid to the employee who works the midnight twelve hour shift, Whereas the Company would normally pay eight hours second shift premium to one employee and eight hours third shift premium to another, an equal amount of money will be paid to one employee.
For example:
8 hr. x $.36	= $2,88
8 hr. x $.56	= MAS
$7,36 Paid to midnight 12 hr, shift employee per shift.
The Company reserves the right to alter this system without financial disadvantage to either party if ft proves unmanageable.
h)	Probationary period for New Employees
Completed twelve (12) hour shifts will be recognized as one and one-half (1-1/2) days toward the calculation for probationary period.
il Maintenance Shift
It is at the Company's discretion to schedule the eight (8) hour Maintenance shift employees on scheduled holidays or beyond eighty (80) hours for a two week period.
24
j)	Work Performed on Schedulad Days Off
Where an employee is requested to work on a scheduled day off the employee shall be paid the greater of four (4) times the regular rate or overtime at time plus one-half, unless on Sunday which is at double time.
k)	Vacation Scheduling and Payment
Weeks of vacation are scheduled in 7-day blocks as per the shift schedule. There is no allowance for extra work when vacation is taken during scheduled weeks of less than forty „	(40) hours. However, if during the eighty (80) hour block in
the schedule a person takes one week vacation and also works a regularly scheduled forty-eight (48) hour week it will be compensated for as forty-four (44) hours straight time and four (4) hours at time plus one-half.
l)	Reporting of Absence
The Union agrees that for such a shift schedule to succeed employees reporting their absence must fully comply with notification requirements laid out In the Operating Engineers Act.
17.1	5 , The Company shall endeavor to allow a minimum of six (6) hours off work for employees before they can be scheduled or called in on a shift.
ARTICLE 18 VACATIONS WITH PAY
18.01	All employees who have been employed by the Company tor less than six (6) months prior to May 1st in any year shall receive in lieu of vacation an amount equal to four percent (4%) of their earnings up to the 1st of May in that year.
18.02	Any employee who has more than six (6) months service with the Company by May 1st in any year shall be entitled to one (1) weeks vacation and shall be paid as vacation pay, four percent (4%)of her total earnings accrued up to and including May 1st.
18.03	Any employee who has more than one years service with the Company by May 1st in any year shall be entitled to two (2) weeks vacation and shall be paid as vacation pay, four percent (4%) of her earnings for the twelve (12) months preceding May 1 st of the current year.
18.04	An employee who has more than five (5) years service with the Company by May 1st in any year shall be entitled to three (3) weeks vacation and shall be paid as vacation pay, six per cent (8%) of her earnings for the twelve (12) months preceding May 1st of the current year.
25
18.06
18.06
18.07
18.08
18.09
18.10 18,11
18.12
An employee who has more than ten (10) years service with the Company by May 1st in any year shall be entitled to four (4) weeks vacation end shall be paid as vacation pay, eight percent (8%) of her earnings for the twelve (12) months preceding May 1st of the current year.
An employee who has more than nineteen (19) years service with the Company by May 1st in any year shall be entitled to five (5) weeks vacation and shall be paid as vacation pay, ten percent (10%) of her earnings for the twelve (12) months preceding May 1st of the current year.
An employee who has more than twenty-eight (28) years service with the Company by May 1st in any year shall be entitled to six (6) weeks vacation and shall be paid as vacation pay, twelve percent (12%) of her earnings for the twelve (12) months preceding May 1st of the current year.
Vacation with pay will be by separate cheques distributed prior to the vacation and all normal deductions will be made.
"Service" as used in this Article means total time of active employment without any interruption by one of the occurrences in Article 13.06,
The term "earnings" as used in this Article 18 shall include payment for all time actually worked (wages, overtime premiums, shift differentials) and "temporary" disability benefits received under the Workers' Compensation and Weekly Indemnity plans but shall not include vacation pay received during the previous calendar year.
Where an employee is disabled due to illness or injury during their vacation or any portion thereof the employee shall be considered on sick leave for such period of disability and the employee's vacation shall be rescheduled at a later date.
An employee shall not be entitled to payment of vacation pay and weekly indemnity benefits for the same period.
The Company may require employees to take their vacation during a plant shutdown provided such shutdown is during the summer school vacation period. Employee vacation not taken during a plant shutdown shall be scheduled at the request of the employee provided It does not interfere with normal operations. Where there are competing requests seniority shall govern provided the request is made at least two (2) weeks in advance.
During a plant shutdown for vacation, one (1) engineer may be allowed to take hie vacation if the opportunity arises. Seniority shall govern In the event of competing requests provided the requests are made at least two (2) weeks in advance.
26
18. 3 18. 4
ARTICLE.19 19.01
19.02
An employee who leaves the employ of the Company before becoming entitled to a vacation as provided in this article shall receive In lieu thereof the amount provided for under the Employment Standards Act and Regulations i ssued thereunder.
Maintenance employees will be required to take any two 12) week8 vacation during June to September except during the plant shutdown period.
PAID HOLIDAYS
The following holidays shall be observed as paid holidays:
New Year's Day Good Friday Victoria Day Christmas Day Boxing Day
Canada Day Civic Holiday Labor Day Thanksgiving Day
and four (4) floater holidays established after discussion with the Union and where possible to be taken during the Christmas period.
Effective January 1, 1994, if a new employee starts after the month of January, their floater days will be earned on a pro-rata basis for the year.
Full-time employees who have completed their probationary period or three (3) months service, whichever comes first and who are off work due to observance of one of the above named holidays will receive eight (8) hours pay for such holidays worked subject to the following conditions:
I a)	To be eligible for holiday pay an employee must work his last
full scheduled work day immediately preceding such holiday, and his first full scheduled work day immediately following such holiday, unless absent with permission of the Company or because of proven illness;
b) The employee must have worked ten (10) days out of the four (4) weeks immediately preceding the holiday;
c)	An employee who is eligible for a holiday in accordance with the above conditions, and who performs work on any of the said paid holidays shell be entitled to receive pay at time and one-half (1-1/2) for the work performed on such holiday, In addition to his holiday pay; or to receive pay at time and one-half (1-1/2) for the work performed on such holiday plus a day off, with pay, at a time mutually agreed to by the employee and Management.
27
d)	An employee entitled to payment under the sickness accident plan and entitled to a paid holiday shall receive holiday pay In an amount equal to the difference between eight (8) hours pay and the sickness and accident benefit received.
e)	. An employee on vacation when a holiday Is observed will
receive an extra day vacation with pay.
19.03	In the event that a layoff commences on the day immediately following a paid holiday, a full-time employee otherwise qualified for the holiday pay shall not be disentitled thereto solely because of the day on which the layoff commenced.
19.04	Rather than receive payment for statutory holidays, part-time employees shall receive an additional seven percent (7%) added to their gross wages each week.
Effective January 1, 1994, rather than receive payment for statutory holidays, part-time employees shall receive an additional seven percent (7%) added to their gross wages each week upon completion of their probationary period or three months whichever is sooner.
ARTICLE 20 LEAVE OF ABSENCE
20.01	" The Company may grant leave of absence without pay If an
employee requests it in writing and if the leave Is for good reason and does not unreasonably interfere with the efficient operation of the plant and does not require the Company to hire new employees or work overtime.
20.02	Union Leave
a)	Leave of absence to attend Union conventions and conferences may be granted to not more than two 12) employees at any one time except when the Local Union's Executive Council meetings are scheduled, in which case all the Union Committee (maximum of five (5) employees) may be granted Union leave. Requests shall not be unreasonably denied. Application for such leave of absence shall be made by the Union in writing at least two (2) weeks prior to the requested leave.
b)	Time spent on Union business shall be paid by the Company and billed to the Union for any loss of wages and benefits.
28
20.03
20.04
20.05
20.06
20.07
Full-time Union Leave
Upon application by the Union, in writing, the Company will grant leave of absence, without pay, to an employee elected or appointed to full-time Union position. It is understood that not more than one 11) employee in the bargaining unit maybe on such leave at the same time. Seniority and service shall accumulate during the full term of such leave.
ai Political Leave - Upon written request an employee shall be granted sufficient time off from work without pay to:
il Campaign for election to a Municipal, Provincial or Federal office; or
il) To fulfill the responsibilities of an elected Municipal office;
provided that in either case such time off can be scheduled so as not to unreasonably interfere with the efficient operation of the plant and does not require the Company to hire new employees or work overtime.
b) An employee who is elected to a Federal or Provincial office shall be given every consideration for reemployment upon completion of her term of office and the parties shall discuss her seniority standing.
Matarnltv/Parantal Leave - The Company shall grant MaternKy/Parental leave in accordance with the Employment Standards Act.
Adoption Leave - The Company shall grant adoption leave in accordance with the Employment Standards Act upon receipt of supportive documentation from the employee.
Jury Duty - An employee required to serve on a jury or subpoenaed as a Crown witness during a period when she would otherwise be scheduled to work for the Company shall be paid the wages she would have received during this period computed on the basis of her regular number of straight time hours and the then current rate of pay. Such employee will notify the Company of the requirement to attend the Court and shall furnish adequate proof of the amount of pay (exclusive of expense allowances) received which shall be deducted from his next pay cheque. The Company will not require the employee to work any other than her regularly scheduled hours while on jury duty, or Crown witness, but may require an employee excused from jury duty or Crown Witness to complete the balance of her regular shift, where reasonable.
29
20.08
ARTICLE 21
21.01
a)	Bereavement Leave • in the event of the death of a member
of an employee's family, the employee, provided she has completed her probationary period, will be granted a leave of absence for a reasonable time end will be reimbursed for time necessarily lost from work up to a maximum of three (3)days for the purposesof making funeral arrangementsor attending the funeral. The term *a member of the employee’s family* means: mother, father, brother, sister, son-in-law, daughter-in-law,	mother-in-law,	father-in-law,	grandparents,
grandchildren, step-parents, step-children and legal guardian.
b)	In the event of the death of an employee's spouse or child, the employee will be granted five (5) days commencing the day after the spouse or child deceases, The employee will be reimbursed for days lost from work, including weekends which fall during the five (5) day leave period. Additional leave of absence without pay for a reasonable period of time may also be granted.
c)	Up to one (1) day at straight time hourly rate may be paid if an employee loses working time on a regularly scheduled working day to attend or make arrangements for the funeral of a sister-In-law, brother-in-law or grandparents-in-law.
d} When an employee is unable to, due to distance of travel, attend a funeral of a member of their family es defined in Article 20.08 (a) and (b), they shall be entitled to leave for mourning on the day of the funeral without loss of pay.
e)	Requests for time off to travel to a funeral or act as a pallbearer will be treated on a discretionary basis by the Company.
f)	For the purpose of this Article 20.08 bereavement leave in respect of a spouse or referenced relations shall include a person with whom the employee has cohabited in a husband and wife relationship which is recognized as such in the community for a minimum period of nine (9) months.
ALCOHOLISM AND DRUG ADDICTION
If either the Union or the Company identifies an employee who is addicted to alcohol or drugs, the parties agree to cooperate in assisting the employee to obtain treatment and rehabilitation provided the addiction is made known to the Company and acknowledged by the individual Involved prior to a discharge notice and is a first time addiction.
An employee will be entitled to Weekly Indemnity Benefits during a period of addiction rehabilitation provided she is under the continuing supervision of a qualified professional end is undergoing active treatment at a hospital or recognized treatment centre which prevents her from working.
30
ARTICLE 22 WORKERS' COMPENSATION
22.01	a) Where an employee is absent due to illness or injury which is
compensable by Workers' Compensation the following shall apply:
• i) The employee will not be eligible for paid holidays or any other benefits of this Agreement, except where specified otherwise, during any absence covered by Workers' Compensation.
ii)	Provided that the employee returns to work within two (2) years of the date of illness or injury, time spent on Workers' Compensation shall be considered as time worked for the purpose of calculating the current year's vacation entitlement under the terms of this Agreement.
iii)	An employee who loses work because of a compensable injury shall be paid for the balance of her normal straight time shift during which the injury occurred.
b) Where an employee who has sustained a compensable injury is, in the opinion of e physician, medically able to perform only restricted types of work and where there is such work available without significant reduction in plant efficiency. the Company may allow the injured employee to displace the junior employee performing such work.
ARTICLE 23 CLASSIFICATION OF NEW JOBS
In the event the Company introduces a new job which is not currently classified under Schedule 'A" of this agreement the Union Committee shall be advised. The Company will at its discretion establish a temporary classification for such work at a level not lower than the current base labor rate.
If after a forty-five (45) day period the Union disputes the rate initially established a written appeal may be lodged with the Plant Manager which specifies the reasons for disputing the rate. Such appeal will be lodged within ten (10) working days following completion of the forty-five (45) day period.
Failing satisfactory resolution of the appeal within a period of ten (10) working days the matter will be referred to the third step of the grievance procedure. Where the initial job rate is changed either as a result of consultation or arbitration the change will be retroactive to the date of the job's introduction.
To assist the Union in its evaluation of the job rate e Committee Member and or Union Representative will be permitted to observe the work in progress for a period of up to two (2) hours.
31
ARTICLE 24 FULL-TIME EMPLOYEES BENEFIT PLANS
24.01
24.02
The Company will arrange plans to provide full-time seniority employees with the following benefits subject to the conditions of enrollment, entitlement, deductibles and coinsurance contained in the contract of Insurance between the Company and the insurer as'of December 5, 1995.
il Life Insurance	- The Company will pay the	full cost	of
$31,000	Life	insurance	with	an	additional	$31,000	of
Accidental Death and Dismemberment coverage effective date of ratification. The Company will pay the full cost of $33,000	Life	Insurance	with	an	additional	$33,000	of
Accidental Death and Dismemberment coverage effective November 1, 1996. The Company will pay the full cost of $35,000	Life	Insurance	with	an	additional	$35,000	of
Accidental Death and Dismemberment coverage effective November 1, 1997.
Employees may elect additional life insurance of $20,000, The cost of this additional coverage will be paid by the employee.
li) Supplementary Health Care • The Company to pay the full cost of this coverage. Benefits to include prescription drugs and semiprivate hospital coverage.
iii)	Dental Plan - Effective January 1, 1994, dental benefits will be revised annually to reflect the previous years ODA schedule.
iv)	Sickness and Accident Insurance - The Company to pay the full cost of this coverage. Pian to provide benefits as follows:
■	weekly benefit to be two-thirds (2/3) of weekly earnings up to current U.I,C. maximum benefit.
■	maximum benefit duration of 52 weeks.
■	Company to retain U.I.C. premium rebate to assist with funding of benefit plans.
v)	Vision Care • Effective date of ratification $125.00 every 24 months for the full-time employee, employees spouse and dependent children as per the Major Medical Plan. Effective November 1, 1996, the benefit will be Increasedto $150,00 every 24 months.
The Company shall pay 100% of CHIP premiums for seniority fulltime employees.
32

24.03	Where an employee is absent due to illness or injury and is in receipt of benefits under the Sickness and Accident Plan or temporary total disability benefits under the Workers’ Compensation Act, the Company shall continue its normal premium payments for the month in which the absence commences and for as long es benefits continue for a maximum of up to twelve (12) months thereafter.
Where a seniority employee is granted maternity or parental leave the Company shall pay 100% of the expenses of the following benefits for the term of the leave(s) outlined in the Employment Standards Act of Ontario.
-	OHIP
-	Dental
-	Supplementary Health Care • Life Insurance
24.04	The Company agrees to maintain the Pension Plan for Designated Hourly Employees of Nestle Canada Inc. Employees have the option of retiring early at age fifty-five (56) with ten (10) years service completed.
24.05	The Company agrees to the continuation of the following miscellaneous benefits.
I) Meal allowance at the revised rata of $4.50 after four (4) hours overtime.
|j) The Company will provide and launder work clothing.
iii) The Company will pay 100% of the purchase of safety shoes to a maximum of $75,00 per year. Effective November 1, 1996, the Company will pay up to a maximum of $80,00 per year. The subsidy for replacement shoes will be made where the employee provides evidence that new shoes are required and proof of purchase.
33
24.06
ARTICLE-ZS
25.01
26.02
Iv) In the case of those maintenance employees who are required to maintain a tool set the Company will make reimbursementfor replacement of worn out or broken tool set items. Upgrade of new tools will be reimbursed up to a total of one hundred and thirty dollars ($130.00) in the period _ from November 1, 1995 to October 31, 1996; a total of one hundred and fifty dollars ($150.00) in the period November 1, 1996 to October 31, 1997,and; a total of one hundred and sixty dollars (8160.00) in the period November 1, 1997 to October 31, 1998. Reimbursement will be made where the employee provides evidence that new tools are required and proof of purchase,
The Company will provide full-time employees with a booklet outlining the conditions of their benefit plans, upon completion of their probationary period.
PART-TIME EMPLOYEES BENEFIT PLANS
The Company will arrange to provide part-time seniority employees with Life Insurance coverage of $16,000.00 effective date of ratification, increased to $18,000.00 effective November 1, 1996 and increased to $19,000.00 effective November 1, 1997, subject to the conditions of enrollment and entitlement contained in the contract between the Company and the carrier as of December 1, 1985.
Life Insurance for employees assigned disability premium waiver is established and frozen at the level of insurance that was in effect at time of disability.
Part-time seniority employees whose level of earnings exceeded thirty percent (30%) of the yearly Maximum Pensionable Earnings during the previous calendar year shall be permitted to participate in the Pension Pian for Designated Hourly Employees of Nestle Canada Inc, effective January 1, 1986.
34
ARTICLE 26 FACTORY CLOSURE
26.01
26.02
26.03
26.04
a) In the event of the complete and permanent closure of all the Company's production lines at Its factory in Trenton, an employee who does not accept transfer in or to another Nestle factory in the province of Ontario and is released from employment as a result thereof, shell be entitled to severance pay based on the following:
Severance
1 weeks pay for each completed year of service.
Service
Less than 5 years
5 years but less than 10 years
10 years but less than 25 years
25 years plus
1,25 weeks pay for each completed year of service.
1,50 weeks pay for each completed year of service.
1.75 weeks pay for each completed year of service up to a maximum of 40 weeks.
b) Incomplete years of service shall be prorated to the nearest month.
c)	Each week of severance pay for full-time employees shall be calculated by multiplying the employee's regular straight time hourly rate at the time of termination by 40. Severance pay for part-time employees shall be based on the average number of hours worked per week based on the previous twelve months prior to ratification or termination.
Severance payments shall not be made:
a)	To employees who are discharged for just cause.
b)	To employees who voluntarily resign.
c)	To employees who are retired on pension.
d)	In the event of closing due to Acts of God, war, disaster, or any other reason of similar nature end beyond the control of the Company.
In order to qualify for severance pay, employees shall continue to work in a satisfactory manner as long as required.
The weeks of severance allowance plus earned vacation will not exceed the number of weeks remaining to the employee's normal retirement date.
35
26.05	Severance payable under this section shall be deemed to Include
any aeverance pay as may be required under any Ontario legislation
ARTICLE 27 TERMINATION
27.01	This Agreement shall become effective November 1, 1995 jnd
continue In full force and effect until October 31. 1998 and from year to year thereafter unless written notice of intention to terminate or amend this Agreement is given by either patty to the other not more than ninety (90) days and not less than thirty (30) days before the date of its termination.
DATED AT TRENTON THIS 1ST DAY OF MARCH 1996
36
SCHEDULE 'A'
CLASSIFICATION AND WAGES
CLASSIFICATION
GROUP 1 STATIONARY ENGINEER/ ELECTRICIAN/TECHNICIAN
MILLWRIGHT
17.75	17.95	18.25	18.60
GROUP 2 SHIPPER RECEIVER	14.00	14.20	14.50	14.85
SENIOR PREPARATION OPERATOR
EQUIPMENT PREPARATION AND SETUP (EPSU)
Q.C. TECHNICIAN MICROBIOLOGY TECHNICIAN MAINTENANCE CLERK STOCK CONTROLLER
GROUP 3
PREPARATIONOPERATOR MACHINE OPERATOR- FROZEN MACHINE OPERATOR- DRY DRY MIX MATERIAL HANDLER PRODUCTION CLERK WAREHOUSE CLERK Q.A. CLERK PANELIST
GROUP 4	LINE ASSOCIATE
JANITOR
13.00	13.20
13.50	13.85
37
MOTES
1.	The trial period for seniority employees for all jobs is the lessor of forty-five (46) working days on the job, or sixty (60) working days in the plant (after starting job), at 26 cents per hour below the job rate or the employee's previous job rate whichever is higher. In cases of employees posting down to a new position, the new position rate will apply during the trial period.
Probationary employees will be paid at 25 cents per hour below the job rate until successfully completing the probationary period.
2.	A summer student rate of 75 cents per hour below the lowest job rate in effect. .
3.	Where lead hands are appointed by the Company they will receive 75 cents per hour over employees they have been assigned to lead.
4.	With respect to Maintenance classification incumbents et various levels carry the qualifications required in the following trade areas:
STATIONARY ENGINEER
Must have a current 3rd Class Ontario Stationary Engineer's Certificate. ELECTRICIAN/TECHNICIAN
Must have a current Ontario Electrician Construction and Maintenance Certificate of Qualification.
Plus - Industrial Electronic training at an accredited training center or proof of work related training in the Industrial Electronic field.
MILLWRIGHT
Ontario Industrial Mechanic Millwright Certificate with Industrial experience or Food related experience.
STATIONARY/MILLWRIGHTS/ELECTRI.CIANS
Dual Certification • Must have one current certification and the Company will provide an apprentice program to obtain the second, where required.
38
LETTER CF INTENT
R E SKILLED TRADES - B. WHALEY
The parties hereby agree that Bill Whaley will be classified as a Millwright for such time as he continues to perform his current duties as follows:
-	Cover all areas of Plant/Machinery/Buildings and Refrigeration as required.
-	Cover all Utility and Plant Equipment.
* Assigned to shifts as required.
SIGNED AT TRENTON, ONTARIO THIS 1 ST DAY OF M/ kRCH 996
FOR THE COMPANY
39
LETTER CF INTENT
RE: DETERMINATION OF TIME FOR WAGE PAYMENT
Pursuant to Article 17 of the parties' agreement it Is hereby agreed that the tollowing system will apply for determination of the time to which an employee is entitled to payment.
1.	An employee's 'start time" will be their actual shift start time or in the event the employee is late their actual start time.
2.	An employee's 'finish time" will be the quarter hour to which their actual finishing time is rounded.
Actual time will be rounded down to the nearest quarter hour if the employee has worked less than seven minutes In that quarter hour.
Actual time will be rounded up to the nearest quarter hour ifthe employee has worked seven or more minutes in that quarter hour.
3.	Employee's will receive payment at the applicable rate for time worked and paid rest periods which fall between their 'start' and 'finish' times.
4.	For purposes of clarity the following examples indicate how time for pay entitlement is to be determined:
CLOCK
IN	'START'
TIME	TIME
6:53	7:00
6:53	7:00
6:59	7:00
6:59	7:00
7:03	7:03
7:00	7:00
7:00	7i00
CLOCK
OUT	'FINISH"
TIME	TIME
2:52	3:00
3:06	3:00
3:07	3:15
3:21	3:15
3:00	3:00
4:06	4:00
4:07	4:15
TIME FOR PAY ENTITLEMENT DETERMINATION
8 hours 8 hours
8 hours 15 mins
8	hours 15 mins 7 hours 57 mins
9	hours
9 hours 15 mins
NOTE: In the above examples the shift start time is 7:00 and, 2 paid rest periods are assumed.
SIGNED AT TRENTON, ONTARIO THIS 1 ST DAY CF MARCH 1996,
FOR THE UNION	FOR THE COMPANY
40
LETTER OF INTENT
R E SHIFT ARRANGEMENTS MAINTENANCE STAFF
INTRODUCTION
The following provisions of this Letter of Understanding are intended to provide
for the orderly rotation and assignment of maintenance staff shifts.
Shift .Rotation
1.	Unless otherwise mutually agreed maintenance staff would remain on a particular shift for two (2) weeks.
2.	Upon return from vacation, illness, and other forms of authorized leave employees will resume their normal position in the shift rotation.
3.	To aid with training and familiarization, an employee's shift assignment during their trlal/probatlonary period will be at the discretion of management.
4.	Upon completion of their probation/trial period, employees will assume the same position in the shift rotation as was held by the employee they replaced, or alternatively where the employee is a maintenance staff addition the least preferred shift in the rotation.
5.	Employees trading shifts must both be In agreement and have the permission of their Supervisor in advance, in writing.
Other
1.	Each Maintenance employee will enter a report in the log book at the end of their shift indicating situations and work activities relevant to the next shift. Employees will review the log book at the start of their shift. Where a verbal shift end report is required this will also be provided to those reporting, by those completing their shift.
2.	Nothing in this letter shall be interpreted as restricting the Company's right to adjust the number of maintenance staff in a classification or the number that are assigned to a particular shift.
3.	Where operational requirements dictate, the Company may change an employee's shift assignment.
.Q.vertlm6
When production operates on a five (5) day production schedule, overtime will be scheduled as follows;
1.	Where there is a rotation of shifts, maintenance staff on the day shift would be required to perform Saturday and Sunday overtime work for which they are qualified.
41
Where additional maintenance staff are required for weekend overtime work or if there Is no rotation in effect and there are not sufficient qualified volunteers, such work will be assigned to those qualified in reverse order of seniority.
2.	]h the event that weekend production is scheduled the required number and type of maintenance staff will report according to their regular shift assignment for that week.
SIGNED AT TRENTON, ONTARIO THIS 1 ST DAY CF MARCH 1996
FOR THE UNION	FOR THE COMPANY
42
LETTER OF INTENT RE: SHIFT ASSIGNMENT
Further to the parties Collective Agreement dated November 1, 1991 and revised December 5, 199B, it Is agreed that pursuant to Article's 15.01 (a) and (b) the Company's obligation to canvass full-time employees will be administered as follows:
1.	The Company will canvass employees each four (4) months to identify employee shift preferences.
2.	Subsequent to each canvassing, employees will be permitted to transfer to their preferred shifts as provided and with such limitations as are outlined in the agreement.
3.	Where operational requirements dictate the rescheduling of employee shift assignments during the four (4) month period to which a given canvassing applies, the Company will first reschedule volunteers provided they have the required skill and ability.
4.	Where the shift scheduling requirement is anticipated to extend beyond the four (4) month period for which a given canvassing applies, the Company will advise affected employees that this is the case and such employees may elect not to accept the shift transfer voluntarily.
5.	Where an employee has voluntarily accepted assignment to enother shift they may, at the Company's option, be required to remain on that shift until the next canvassing date or for such longer period of time as the employee agreed to when she volunteered.
SIGNED AT TRENTON, ONTARIO THIS 1ST DAY CF MARCH 1996
FOR THE UNION	FOR THE COMPANY
43
LETTER OF INTENT
RE: WORKPLACE SEATING
The parties' hereby agree that there would be advantages in introducing stools for
use by employees working in particular areas of the factory. The following
serves
to outline the manner in which stools will be introduced.
1. The Company will determine the appropriate type of stool taken into consideration:
•	Government sanitation requirements
•	Safety
•	Comfort
■ Durability - cost
Such assessment will include test use by employees as well as Quality Assurance/Control and Production Management.
2.	The Company will make its decision as to the appropriate stool as soon as practical.
3.	Stools will be introduced by March 31, 1986 for use by employees performing the following stationary work:
Lineal • Plate Dispensing
-	Product Assembly (e.g. cannelloni rolling, fish placement, lasagna placement, topping dispensing, sauce spreading)
Line #2/3	• Tray Dispensing
-	Line Weighing (excluding dough feeder)
Line #4	• Carousel Weighing (e.g. meats, pasta)
4.	In the case of the following jobs assessment will be required to determine if the use of stools is practical:
Line # 1	- Line inspection
-	Reconditioning
Line #2/3	- Reconditioning
Line #4	• Carousel to Pouch Transferring
-	Reconditioning
-	Line Inspection
44
The assessment of whether stools are practical for these jobs will be conducted in the following manner:
i)	Stools will be introduced on a "trial" basis
ii)	Based on the trial the use of stools will be assessed with consideration to:
•	employee comfort - safety
■ physical space limitation
•	production efficiency
Where all of these factors cannot be assured to the satisfaction of both parties the use of stools will be prohibited.
5.	The Company will consider proposals regarding the use of stools for new types of work but will retain the right to decide whether stools are feasible in the case of the work involved.
6.	Should the cost of suitable stools be more than the currently estimated cost of introducing stools shall be capped at $3,500/year.
7.	The parties will make every effort to ensure that the use of stools does not detract from production efficiency.
SIGNED "AT TRENTON, ONTARIO THIS 1ST DAY OF MARCH 1996
FOR THE COMPANY w
45
LETTER CF INTENT
RE: WORKFORCE COMPOSITION
The parties recognize that it Is in their common interest to ensure that the Company is guaranteed the work force necessary to meet its operational requirements. It 'Is further agreed that this is best achieved by maintaining the following practices:
1.	Protecting the employment security of full-time employees to the extent possible given demand for the Company's products; and
2.	Maintaining an adequate supplementary work force of part-time workers to meet fluctuating labor needs which vary daily according to the variety and output of product which is required.
In keeping with the above it is agreed that the provisions of the collective agreement which provide for the separate lay off of part-time and full-time employees are not intended to result in an increase of part-time employees at the expense of full-time positions.
Accordingly the Company will endeavor to maintain, to the extent possible and practical, the approximate current proportion of "production employees' which is made up of full-time employees versus part-time employees.
For the purpose of this letter 'production employees" shall mean employees both full-time and part-time who are directly involved in manufacturing as opposed to service categories such as skilled maintenance, sanitation personnel, or truck drivers.
The parties agree that this letter will take effect on December 3rd, 1983 and that it will expire on October 31, 1998.
SIGNED AT TRENTON, ONTARIO THIS 1ST DAY OF MARCH 1996.
FOR THE UNION	FOR THE COMPANY
Note: As of December 3rd, 1983 the ratio of full-time to part-time production employeeswas 1:1.4,
46
LETTER OF INTENT
RE: MAINTENANCE STANDBY
As agreed, the following practice will be maintained in the case of maintenance personnel when they are assigned weekend 'standby' and scheduled overtime:
1. On the sixth scheduled day of work, the employee will be paid the greater of six (6) times his regular straight time hourly rate or overtime at the applicable rate for the hours actually worked.
2.	On the seventh scheduled day of work, the employee will be paid the greater'of eight (8) times his regular straight time hourly rate or overtime at the applicable rate for the hours actually worked.
For the purpose of clarity, I would emphasize that this arrangement recognizes the "standby" obligation of these personnel as well as their scheduled overtime duties. In view of this additional responsibility, Article 17,11 is not directly applicable. Should they be relieved of the standby obligation, then Article 17.12 would become applicable.
SIGNED AT TRENTON, ONTARIO THIS 1ST DAY OF MARCH 1996
FOR THE UNION
FOR THE COMPANY
47
LETTER CF UNDERSTANDING
RE BACK UP THIRD SHIFT SANITATION - EPSU
The parties recognize that it Is necessary to have relief and supplementary third shift EPSU workers available to meet changing operating requirements. It is further recognized that due to the specialized training required to do Sanitation work, it is safer and more effective to meet this need with a constant group of 'Back up EPSU workers.
Accordingly, it is agreed that the Company will, as the need arises, post 'Back up third shift Sanitation" jobs. These jobs will be open to full-time and part-time applicants. -
In the event part-time employees are successful applicants to these jobs, it is understood that they will be assigned the work as it becomes available versus only being assigned work according to the standard part-time rotation.
In addition the experience that a part-timer gains as a result of such a 'Back up third shift Sanitation" posting shall be ignored in the event a permanent EPSU vacancy subsequently arises, except relative to other employees who were part-timers at the time the 'Back up third shift Sanitation' job was posted. This restriction shall not apply in the case of employees working part-time but continuing to accumulate full-time seniority as per Article 13,03 and 14,06.
SIGNED^T TRENTON, ONTARIO THIS 1ST DAY OF MARCH 1996
48
|f.	LETTER OF INTENT
f	RE: WORKBREAKS
Furtherto Article 17.14, the parties recognize that it is Inthe Interest of an conesmsd to bafancs the employee's need for reasonably apacsd break with the demands of the operations.
As such, it is the Company's intent to attempt to schedule an employee's first break no sooner than two (2) hours after her start time and no later than four (4) hours after her start time. Furthermore, it is the Company's intent to attempt to schedule the second break in an equitable fashion after the first break, but no later than two (2) hours before the finish time.
The application of the above practice is during a normal shift and may be altered in the event of unforeseen circumstances.
SIGNED AT TRENTON, ONTARIO THIS 1ST DAY OF MARCH 1996
FOR THE COMPANY
49
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
RE: WEEKLY INDEMNITY ADVANCE
Pursuant to Article 24,01 (Iv) of the parties agreement it.. hereby agreed that the following system will apply for an initiai cash advance to start the Weekly Indemnity (W.l.) claim:
1.	An advance will be initiated by the Company two (2) weeks after the Company has received an accurate completed form from the employee if the W,l. cheque has not been received.
2.	The employee shall reimburse the Company for all payments they received from the Company upon immediate receipt of the W.l. cheque from the carrier.
3.	If a W.l. claim is denied by the insurance carrier, the employee will reimburse the Company through payroll deduction. If an employee leaves the employ of the Company before reimbursing the W.l. cash advance, the money will be deducted from monies owing Including wages and vacation pay.
SIGNED AT TRENTON. ONTARIO THIS 1ST DAY OF MARCH 1996
FOR THE UNION	FOR THE COMPANY
50
LETTER OF AGREEMENT
RE: COMPANY BONUS
Employees shall participate in the Employee Bonus Plan for the life of this
agreement as follows:
a)	For the calendar year January 1, 1996 to December 31, 1996, employees shall be entitled to receive a bonus of three percent (3%) of eligible earnings conditional upon the Company achieving its Net Profit (before extraordinary items) target for that year.
b)	For the. calendar year January 1, 1997 to December31, 1997, employees shall be entitled to receive a bonus of three percent (3%)of eligible earnings conditional upon the Company achieving its Net Profit (before extraordinary items) target for that year.
c)	For the calendar year January 1, 1998 to December 31, 1998, employees shall be entitled to receive a bonus of three percent (3%) of eligible earnings conditional upon the Company achieving Its Net Profit (before extraordinary items) target for that year.
d)	Eligible earnings shall be defined as the employee's hourly wage rate as at the year-end multiplied by the number of hours she worked during the calendar year in question. Flours worked shall include Vacation and Statutory Holidays but shall exclude WJ. and W,C,B, The total number of hours shall not exceed 2,080,
e)	It is anticipated that the bonus earned for each year shall be paid out in February of the subsequent year.
f)	Bonus shall be excluded from earnings for the purpose of calculating vacation pay under Article 18 of the Collective Agreement.
SIGNED AT TRENTON, ONTARIO THIS 1 ST DAY OF MARCH 1 996
FOR THE UNION
51
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING R E EMPLOYEE RECREATION FUND
1.	The Company agrees to provide deductions from those employee pay cheques who voluntarily join the Employee Recreation Fund.
2.	A Recreation Committee shall consist of two (2) bargaining unit employee, oned) Management employee and oned) clerical employee selected by each group and this Committee shall be responsible for the monies accumulated In the Fund Account.
3.	The Company shall provide a statement of the amount of monies in the Fund to the Recreation Committee every six (6) months or upon request.
SIGNED AT TRENTON, ONTARIO THIS 1 ST DAY OF MARCH 1996
FOR THE UNION	FOR THE COMPANY
52
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
RE: IMPLEMENTATION OF FLEXIBLE WORK WEEK
Effective Decembers, 1996, notwithstanding Article 17,02 and 17,03, a flexible work wgek may be introduced at the discretion of the Company where production requirements require a seven day production schedule for not less than four (4) weeks. The decision will be driven by volume, and capacity to produce the volume in order to maintain a competitive advantage, if introduced, the flexible work week will apply only to employees within the affected area of operation including the necessary support groups. Before the implementation of the flexible work week the Company will advise the Union three (3) weeks in advance wherever practicable.
A work week shall be between 0001 hours Monday to 2400 hours Sunday, Fuit-time seniority employees would be scheduled for 160 hours of available work over a four (4) week period and consistent with Article 17.01 it cannot be construed as a guarantee. Under the flexible work week Saturday and Sunday will be viewed as normal working days not subject to overtime payment but an employee will receive time and one-haif for the sixth day and double time for the seventh day they work in a work week.
The Union will be asked to participate in the implementation and formulation of the flexible work week shift patterns to ensure that the requirements of employees are taken Into account as far as is reasonably practicable. Full-time employees by seniority will be scheduled off every other weekend if the remaining work force has the required skill and ability to perform the available work. . Part-time employees will be scheduledoff one (1) weekend every four (4) weeks if the remaining work force has the required skill and ability to perform the available work. For this situation only, a weekend would be defined as Saturday and Sunday.
SIGNED AT TRENTON, ONTARIO THIS 1ST DAY OF MARCH 1996
FOR THE UNION	FOR THE COMPANY
53
SECTION 2
DETAILED
BENEFITS
I
GROUP INSURANCE PLANS
General
All full^jjge hourly employees are eligible to participate in the Group Insurance Plans once they have completed their probationary period. This program is made up of the following plans:
1,	Supplementary Health Care Plan
2,	Dental Expense Plan
3,	Weekly Indemnity Plan
4,	Life Insurance Plan (includes part-time seniority employees)
5,	Accidental Death and Dismemberment	Plan
Your coverages under these plans commences on your	first day of active full-time employment
after completion of your probationary period.
Your coverages have been arranged with Metropolitan Life under policy #83302.
2
SUPPLEMENTARY HEALTH CARE AND DENTAL DEPENDENT COVERAGE
In the case of the Supplementary Health Care and Dental Expense coverages, the following general provisions apply:
If you have dependents at the time of your initial enrollment in the Supplementary Health Care and Dental Expense Plan, they will be covered as well as any future additional dependents. If you are initially insured for only personal coverage and later acquire dependent(s), you should immediately advise the Personnel Office so that appropriate coverage may be arranged, if one of your dependents is hospitalized (other than a new-born infant) on the date coverage would normally become effective, coverage will commence on the day following discharge from the hospital.
Eligible dependents include:
a)	Your Spouse - The person to whom you were married by a legally recognized ceremony or with whom you cohabit in a husband and wife relationship. which is recognized as such in the community.
b)	Your children - Unmarried children under 21 years of age, or 25 years of age if a full-time student dependent upon you for support. A mentally retarded or physically handicapped child may remain insured past the maximum age provided the child is incapable of self-sustaining employment and is wholly dependent on you for support and maintenance.
CLAIMS PROCEDURE
3
Supplementary Health Care
if expenses are incurred due to hospital confinement, the hospital should submit the claim directly a claim form should be submitted to your employer who will forward it to the carrier.
if major Medical expenses other than hospital charges are incurred, complete the claim form and return it, along with any itemized bills.
In order to be eligible for payment, claims must be submitted by the end of die calendar year following the year in which the expense was incurred. (See note below,)
Dental Expenses
If Dental expenses are incurred, have your dentist complete the form. Complete your portion f the form and return it to the insurance carrier. Written proof of claim must he submitted by ,te end of the calendar year following the year in which the expenses were incurred. (See note below.)
Disability Income
You and your employer must complete certain portions of the form and your doctor must complete the Attending Physician's statement. Once the form is completed, it should he submitted to the Personnel/Payroll Office.
In order to be eligible for payment, Weekly Indemnity claims must be submitted within 90 days of the commencement of total disability.
Life/A.D. & D
If you should die, the Company will provide the necessary claims forms to your beneficiaries.
NOTE: For all Health Care Benefits, when your insurance terminates for any reason, written proof of claim must be given to the insurer within 90 days of the date of termination of msurance. Itemized bills in support of claims will not be returned but will be retained by the irrier,
TERMINATION OF COVERAGE
4
Except as outlined in the following sections. your Group Insurance coverage ceases with the earliest of the following events:
a)	You no longer satisfy the definition of employee (full-time, hourly employee with seniority).
b)	On the date you reach 65 or retire (except in the case of retiree life insurance)
c)	On the date you no longer wish to contribute toward the cost of Optional Life Insurance, if applicable.
d)	The policy terminates.
e)	If you enter the armed forces on a full-time basis.
Except as specified in the following sections, your dependent's Group Insurance coverage ceases with the earliest of the following events:
a)	Your coverage ceases (Supplementary Health and Dental benefits are expected as outlined in the relevant sections).
b)	The dependent no longer satisfies the definition of dependent.
SUPPLEMENTARY HEALTH CARE PLAN
Hospital Benefit
If you, or a covered dependent, are confined in a licenced hospital, you will be reimbursed for room and board charges in excess of ward accommodation up to the level of semi-private accommodation. If semi-private accommodation is not available, payment (up to 90%)will be based on the hospital's lowest charge for private room and board.
Major Medical Benefit
On behalf of each covered individual of your family, this Benefit pays 50% for psychological expenses, 100% for drugs and 80% for all other eligible expenses which are in excess of an individual deductible of $10 up to a lifetime maximum of $10,000 for each eligible person (with a $1,000 yearly reinstatement).
Deductible
The $10 individual deductible is applied once each calendar year to the eligible expenses 'ncurred during the year. However, the maximum deductible per family per year is $20 with j one member contributing more than $10.
Eligible Expenses
The following is a list of the items currently eligible for payment under this group plan. However, should your provincial Health Plan alter to include any of these items, coverage under this plan will be automatically adjusted.
Eligible expenses must be reasonable, customary, and (except for expense No. 3) recommended as necessary by a physician.
1.	Drugs, sera and injectibles available only on a prescription when prescribed by a physician or dentist and dispensed by a pharmacist, dentist or a physician.
2.	Professional services of a physician (where this coverage is permitted by law) to the extent such charges are reasonable and customary for the area in which the treatment is rendered.
6
3.	Professional services of the following licenced, certified or registered practitioners (when operating within their recognized fields) up to the following levels:
a)	Speech Therapist* - expenses of up to $23 for the initial assessment, and up to $ 15 per visit for treatment or therapy, to an aggregate maximum payment per person or $225 per calendar year.
b)	Physiotherapist* - Payment up to a total of $225/person, per calendar year, limited to expenses of not more than $20 per visit (less any amount paid by any government plans).
*
Under some circumstances, benefits may not be payable until the government plan concerned has paid its yearly maximum. Check with your Personal Department if you require further details.
4.	Diagnostic procedures, radiology, blood transfusions and oxygen (including the equipment necessary for its administration).
5.	Professional services of a Registered Graduate Nurse (R.N.), provided the patient is not confined to hospital. If an R.N, is not available when needed, medically required nursing services of a Registered Nursing Assistant or a Licenced Practical Nurse will be eligible. However, any such nurse who is the spouse, child, brother, sister or parent of yourself or your spouse, will not be considered.
6.	Transportation by means of a licenced ground ambulance to and from a local hospital.
7,	Purchase of trusses, braces, crutches and artificial limbs or eyes.
8.	Rental, or, at the carrier's option, purchase of a wheelchair, hospital bed or iron lung.
Eyeglasses and contact lenses for the correction of vision and which are prescribed by an opthalmologist or optometrist will be reimbursed up to a total of $75.00 every 24 months effective February 7, 1994, The benefit will be increased to $100.00 every 24 months effective November 1, 1994,
7
With respect to the Major Medical Benefits, if a government plan of insurance covers any services, treatments or supplies eligible under this benefit, the administrator will consider,
where permitted to do so by law, the amount of an eligible expense over and above what is or would be payable by such government plan.
Extension of Benefits
If, on the date your coverage would normally cease (for reasons other than policy termination) you are totally disabled, or a dependent is confined to hospital, the eligible expenses associated with the disability or hospital confinement will continue to be reimbursed until the earliest of the following:
a)	The date the disability ceases in the case of the employee;
b)	The date hospital confinement is no longer necessary in the case of the dependent;
c)	90 days after coverage would normally cease in the case of hospital expenses,
d)	365 days after coverage would normally cease in the case of other eligible expenses (major medical).
Extension of Hospital and Major Medical benefits will cease if the policy is terminated. Coverage Llmltafons
See Section headed "Health Care Coverage Limitations" which follows the Dental Expense Plan section.
DENTAL EXPENSE PLAN (100%Company Paid)
2.
General
This plan reimburses a specified percentage of eligible dental expenses in excess of the stated deductibles,
Effective January 1, 1994, eligible expenses are those which are recommended as necessary by a physician or dentist that are not in excess of the previous years Ontario Dental Association (ODA) Schedule of Fees. Fees for specialists will be considered if the patient was referred by a physician or another dentist. To be eligible, dental treatments must be performed by a dentist or denturist who practices within the scope of his license.
Situations may arise where alternate methods of treatment may be available. It is solely for you and your dentist to decide which method will be employed. As the basis for determining its liability, the Plan Administrator reserves the right to use the least expensive method of treatment that would provide a professionally adequate result.
Basic Services
The Dental Expense Plan will pay 80% of the charges for the following treatments which are excess of the lifetime deductible of $25 (for each employee and each dependent individually).
Once during any 6 consecutive month period:
-	oral examination
-	cleaning and scaling
-	bite-wing x-rays
-	topical application of fluoride solutions Once during any 36 consecutive month period:
-	oral hygiene instruction
Once during any 36 consecutive month period:
-	full mouth series of x-rays
9
Other basic Services as required:
-	dental extractions oral surgery diagnostic procedures
dental fillings (amalgam, silicate, acrylic, or composite)
provisions of space maintainers for missing primary teeth and provision of habit
breaking appliances
general anaesthesia and treatment of pain, including antibiotics denture repairs, relines and rebases
endodontic treatment (i.e. (lie treatment of diseases of the dental pulp including root canal therapy)
periodontic treatment (i.e. the treatment of the tissues and bones supporting the teeth including surgery, provisional splinting, and occlusal equilibration.)
Major Services
The Plan will pay 50% of the charges (up to a maximum of $1000/calendar year) for the following treatments which are in excess of the annual deductible of $50 for each employee and dependent individually.
-	inlays and onlays when 3 or more tooth surfaces are involved
-	crowns, including gold and porcelain veneer restoration where other material is not suitable
-	initial or replacement fixed bridge or partial or complete denture if necessary, due to the extraction of natural teeth while covered, or if the existing appliance is at least 3 years old and cannot be properly repaired, or if your existing appliance is temporary and was installed within the last 12 months.
Treatment Plan
In order for you and your dentist to leam in advance how much the Plan Administrator will pay and how much must be paid by you, it is recommended that a Treatment plan be filed whenever their total cost of the proposed dental work is expected to exceed $200. This Treatment Plan identifies coverage and limitations for specific services and clarifies deductibles, plan percentages, specific limits and Dental Fee Guide allowance before dental treatment commences. The Treatment Plan is not intended to limit you in your choice of dentist, to tell you or your dentist what treatment should be performed or to tell the dentist what fee to charge, nor to guarantee reimbursement after coverage ceases. A Treatment Plan is a Dlan of dental needs, a written description of the proposed treatment necessary in the ofessional judgement of a dentist and the cost of the proposed treatment.
If you require more information about how to submit a Treatment Plan inquire at the Personnel Office.
10
Extension of Benefits
in most cases, no Dental benefits are payable for expenses incurred after the date your coverage terminates, even if a Treatment Plan has been filed and benefits have been determined prior to the date your insurance terminates. However, benefits are payable under the following circumstances:
1.	Where an impression for a denture (including crowns, inlays or onlays) was taken prior to the date your insurance terminated and the denture is installed after the insurance terminates, Dental Expenses incurred in connection with this procedure within 30 days of the termination of coverage are eligible.
2.	If your coverage terminates due to your death, dental expenses incurred on behalf of your dependents will be eligible for payment provided:
a)	The services are rendered within 90 days following your death, and
b)	They are part of a series of planned dental services started prior to your death or rendered at definite dental appointments made prior to your death.
Health Care Coverage Limitations
No payment will be made under the Supplementary Health Care or Dental Expense Plans for charges arising from any of the following:
-	Self-inflicted injuries or illness while sane or insane.
-	Any injury or illness for which the insured person is entitled to indemnity or compensation under the Workers' Compensation Act.
-	Charges levied by a physician or dentist for his time spent travelling, broken appointments, his transportation costs, room rental charges or for advice given by him by telephone or other means of telecommunication.
■	Cosmetic surgery or treatment (when so classified by the carrier) unless such surgery or treatment is for accidental injuries and commenced within 90 days of an accident.
■	Injury resulting directly or indirectly from insurrection, war, service in the armed forces of any country or participation in a riot.
' Services, treatments, or supplies payable by, or insurable only by, a government plan.
-	Examinations required for the use of a third party.
-	Travel for health reasons.
■	Dental treatment received from a dental or medical department maintained by an employer, an association, or a labour union.
-	The replacement of an existing appliance which has been lost, mislaid or stolen.
" Services and supplies rendered for full mouth re-construction, for a vertical dimension correction, or for a correction to temporal mandibular joint dysfunction.
-	Orthodontic treatment.
WEEKLY INDEMNITY PLAN (100%Company Paid)
3
benefits
If you are totally disabled, unable to work, and under the continuing care of a physician, you will receive a weekly income of 66-2/3% of your weekly earnings up to the current Unemployment Insurance Commission maximum ($444.60 as of January 1994)
"Totally disabled" means the inability to work for your employer for wages or profit due to bodily injury or disease.
Your benefits will commence on the earlier of
1.	The 4th calendar day of a disability caused by sickness.
2.	The 1st calendar day of a disability due to an accident.
3.	The 1st calendar day of hospitalization.
During any of one period of disability, your benefits will continue until the earlier of your ■ecovery or, 52 weeks.
'Recurrent Disabilities
If you have been disabled and have received Weekly Indemnity benefits under this plan, a later disability will be considered recurrent if it is related to the initial sickness or injury and is separated from the previous absence by less than 2 weeks of full-time employment.
If any period of disability is classified as "recurrent", it will be treated as a continuation of the previous disability. For instance, any maximums which apply may already be partly used up. Also, you will not have to re-satisfy any qualifying periods which may apply -- benefits will begin again immediately.
Extension of Benefits
If you are laid-off which receiving Weekly Indemnity Benefits and the total disability continues uninterrupted, you will be eligible to continue receiving Benefits until the date total disability ceases, or the maximum Benefits (52 weeks) are received, whichever is earlier. If you are laid-off and subsequently become totally disabled, you are not eligible to receive Weekly Indemnity unless you are recalled to work during the same month as the lay-off and are unable to return le to an eligible disability.
12
Coverage Limitations
Weekly Indemnity is not payable for the following:
■ a disability caused by self-inflicted injuries or illness
-	a disability resulting from insurrection, war, service in the armed forces of any country or participation in a riot
-	for cosmetic surgery or treatment, when so classified by the carrier, unless such surgery or treatment is for accidental injury and commenced within 90 days of an accident.
Complications due to pregnancy are covered. However, disability due to any cause will not be eligible for benefits when you are on pregnancy leave of absence or could be placed on such leave in accordance with relevant government legislation or as agreed upon by you and the Company.
Your Weekly Indemnity Benefit will be reduced by any income benefits provided by a UIC acknowledged government auto insurance plan.
LIFE INSURANCE
13
Eligible employees may elect one of two available levels of life insurance coverage. The amounts of life insurance coverage under these options is as follows:
$28,000 (100%Company Paid) $29,000 (effective November 1, 1994)
If you wish to apply for Optional Life coverage, you will be required to submit evidence of insurability. Your coverage will become effective on the date such evidence of insurability is approved by the carrier.
In addition, upon retirement, in accordance with the rules of the Pension Plan, you will retain life insurance governing such changes.
Waiver of Premium
If you should become totally disabled and remain disabled for at least 6 months, your Life 'surance coverage will remain in force, without payment of premiums. Satisfactory proof of ^ability must be submitted within 12 months of the commencement of disability and when "required thereafter.
As long as you continue to be disabled, premiums will be waived and the insurance will be remain in force until the time it would normally have ceased if you were not totally disabled.
Basic Coverage for Part-Time Employees
Basic coverage	$13,000
$14,000 (effective November I, 1994)
ACCIDENTAL DEATH AND DISMEMBERMENT
14
5.
In the event of dismemberment resulting from an accident and which occurs with 365 days of the accident, you would receive a portion of your principal sum as follows:
For Loss of:
Both Hands; Both Feet; Sight of Both Eyes;
One Hand and One Foot; One Hand and Sight of One Eye; One Foot and sight of One Eye
One Arm; or One Leg	75%
Thumb & index Finger	25%
Speech and Hearing in Both Ears	100%
Speech	50%
Hearing in Both Ears	50%
Quadriplegia	100%
Paraplegia	100%
Hemiplegia	100%
Percentage of Principal Sum
100%
"Loss" as used with reference to hand, foot, leg, arm or digit means complete severance. With reference to eye, "loss" means the irrecoverable loss of the entire sight thereof.
"Loss" as used with reference to speech means complete and irrecoverable loss of the ability lo utter intelligible sounds; as used with reference to hearing means complete and irrecoverable loss of hearing.
"Loss" as used with reference to quadriplegia, paraplegia and hemiplegia means the complete and irreversible paralysis of such limbs.
Indemnity provided under this part will not be paid under any circumstances, for more than one of the losses sustained by any one Insured Person as the result of any one accident.
SECTION 3
PENSION
PLAN
YOUR PENSION PLAN
1
Being financially prepared for your retirement will certainly help you enjoy the years following your career, Our Retirement Plan works with the Canada Pension Plan and Old Age Security to provide you with an income you can count on -- for life.
As a guide to assist you in understanding the Plan, this section provides a brief description of the provisions. For a more complete description, you should consult the Plan text.
While every effort has been made to ensure the accuracy of (he information contained in this section, it should be noted that in the event of any conflict between the terms and conditions as stated in this booklet and the Plan text. the terms of the Plan text will govern in all cases.
1. GENERAL
Definitions
Certain words have precise meanings when used in this section. Please refer to page 9 for definitions and details.
Eligibility
If you were a member of the Robin Hood Plan. you automatically become a member of the Nestle Pension Plan. Otherwise, all full-time hourly employees are eligible tojoin the Plan on:
a)	The first day of the month following the month you complete your probationary period;
or
b)	Any January I, providing you have completed your probationary period
2
Contributions
As a member of (he Plan you will make contributions as follows:
a)	2% of your annual earnings up to the Yearly Maximum Pensionable Earnings (YMPE) amount which is set for the Canada Pension Plan ($34,400 in 1994)
plus
b)	4% of the amount, if any by which your annual earnings exceed the YMPE ($34,400 in 1994)
Since the Plan lias been registered, your contributions are deductible from earnings for income tax purposes.
2. PENSION BENEFITS
Normal Retirement (for employees who were members of the Robin Hood Plan)
On the first day of the month following the month of your 65th birthday, you will begin receiving an annual pension equal to:
a)	50% of the total of your contributions to the Nestle Pension Plan since October 1, 1981;
plus
b)	The annual benefit which is equal to your accrued credit under the Robin Hood Plan as of September 30, 1981.
Normal Retirement (for other employees who became members .onMtei October 1/811
On the first day of the month following the month of your 65th birthday, you will begin receiving an annual pension equal to 50% of the total of your contributions to the NestI6 Pension Plan since October 1, 1981.
3
AS AN EXAMPLE, let’s say you earn $35,000 in 1994, The YMPE in 1994 is $34,400,
You contribute:
2% of $33,400 plus
4% of your earnings over $33,400 as follows:
2% x $34,400 =	$688.00
plus
4% x $600	=	$ 24.00
$712.00
This is your total contribution to the Plan in 1994.
If your annual earnings are less than the YMPE, you contribute only at the lower rate Let’s say your annual earnings in 1994 are $29,000.
2% x $29,000 = $580.00
This is your total contribution to the Plan in 1994. Deductions are made each pay period.
Early Retirement
With approval of the Company, you may elect to take early retirement at any time after your 55th birthday. On the first day of the month following the month of your early retirement, you will start to receive an annual benefit equal to:
Your Normal	1/4% for each month which
Retirement Benefit	Reduced By -» your early retirement date
(See Previous Section)	precedes your normal (65)
retirement date.
SURVIVOR'S BENEFITS
Spouse's Pension Benefit
If you die while employed by the Company before your Normal Retirement Date, a pension benefit will be paid to your Spouse provided that:
a)	You have elected in writing to have this benefit;
b)	The individual has been your Spouse for at least 1 year;
c)	You have at least 5 years continuous service.
Payment of the Spouse Pension Benefit will start on the first day of the month after the employee's death and continue until the spouse dies or remarries. The annual pension will equal the greater of
a)	50% of tlie pension that the employee had earned at the time of death under t Normal Retirement rules;
or
b)	20% of the pension that the employee would have earned if he had continued working and making contributions until his Normal Retirement Date at the level of earnings being received at the time of death.
If your spouse is more than 10 years younger than you. the pension will be reduced by 2% for each year beyond 10 years. This is to offset the longer period that the pension will be paid.
Dependent's Pension Benefit
If you die while employed by the Company before your Normal Retirement Date and have no spouse or if your spouse dies or remarries after commencing receipt of Spouse's Pension Benefits, your eligible dependents will receive pension benefits provided that:
a)	You have elected in writing to have this benefit;
b)	You have at least 5 years continuous service.
5
Payment of the Dependent's Pension Benefit will start on the first day of the month following either the employee's or spouse's death or remarriage; as the case may be. Payment will continue until the dependent dies, marries, or ceases to satisfy the definition of dependent.
The Dependent's Pension Benefit is calculated in the same fashion as the Spouse's Pension. If there is more than one dependent, the pension benefit will be equally divided with each dependent receiving their share until they are no longer eligible.
Lwmp Sum Benefit
If you die while participating in the Plan and have no Spouse or Dependents, your accumulated contributions to the Plan will be paid with interest to your Beneficiary.
4. OPTIONAL FORMS OF PENSION PAYMENT
If you wish, you may elect one of the following pension payment options:
Joint and Survivor Pension:	To ensure continuing income for
your survivor(s), you may choose a pension which will continue to pay benefits after your death. This will result in some reduction of your regular pension to pay for the survivor benefit. Eligible survivors
include your spouse. a child or
parent (See Definitions).
Pension with Guaranteed Period;	This option allows you to guarantee
that pension payments will be made for 5 or 10 years even if you should die before this period expires. Pension payments will continue to be made to your designated beneficiary for the balance of the 5 or 10 year guarantee period. This option also results in some reduction of your pension to pay for the guarantee.
6
In addition, you may elect for the "Level Income" Feature:
Presently government pension benefits commence at age 65. Should you retire prior to 65, there will therefore be an income "gap" until (lie government benefits start. To bridge (his gap, you may elect to receive an increased pension to age 65. Your normal pension will be reduced after age 65 to pay for extra before - 65 benefits.
To arrange any of the above options, you must submit your election in writing prior to the date that your first monthly pension benefit is payable.
Please note that if you do not make an election, your normal form of pension will cease whenever you die. It is guaranteed that if you had received total pension payments of less than your accumulated contributions with interest (to your retirement date), the balance of your contributions plus interest will be paid to your beneficiary.
5. TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT
General
If you cease to be an employee for any reason other than death or retirement, you will receive a refund of your contributions, unless vesting has occurred. Vesting means that you are guaranteed payment, at age 65, of the pension benefit earned during your participation in the Pension Plan.
Prior to Vesting
If you cease employment before optional or compulsory vesting, you will receive a refund of the contributions (with interest where applicable) that you made to:
a)	The Nest!6 Pension Plan; and
b)	The Robin Hood Pension Plan, if any.
To avoid immediate taxation, this refund can be transferred directly lo a RRSP,
Level Income Pension;
Election Procedure
7
If the following conditions apply to you upon ceasing service,
-	You have 10 or more years of Continuous Service; and
-	You are under 45 years of age; and
-	Your age plus years af Continuous Service or age plus years of Pension Plan membership total at least 50.
your options are follows:
a)	You may opt for a refund of your contributions to the Nestle Pension Plan and Robin Hood Plan, if any.
b)	You may elect to receive a deferred pension starring at age 65,
c)	The amount in (a) may be transferred to an RRSP or a new employer's Pension Plan.
If you have 10 years of service and are 45 years of age or more when you cease employment, your pension rights are vested and "locked-in'' by law. In this case, your options on termination are as follows:
a)	A deferred pension starting at age 65; or
b)	A transfer of the commuted value of the pension to a "locked-in" RRSP or a new employer's pension plan, with such value being no less than your accumulated contributions plus interest.
6.	PENSION ENTITLEMENT SAFEGUARDS
No part of the Pension Plan trust fund may revert to the Company or be diverted to purposes other than for the exclusive benefit of you and other eligible employees, pensioners, and dependents.
While the Company reserves the right to amend the Fund in ways that will not be discriminatory against employees or retired employees, no amendments may be made that would deprive you of any entitlements held at the time of the amendment.
There is added protection for the retired employees in that the benefits are not subject to attachment of other legal process for debts of the beneficiaries.
You should also be aware that if the total amount actually paid under any of the various pension provisions (e.g. Normal, Early, Spouse, Dependent, or Disability) is less than your accumulated contributions to the Nestld Plan (and Robin Hood Plan if applicable), the difference will be paid as a lump sum benefit to your beneficiary.
3
8. DEFINITIONS
Continuous Service;
Dependent;
Nestle Pension Plan;
Spouse.
Trust Fund
Trustee:
Means continuous employment with Nestle Canada Inc. as a designated hourly employee. It also includes service with Robin Hood Multifoods Limited if you were a member of the Robin Hood Plan on September 30, 1981.
Means one of your children (natural or adopted) or the legitimate child of your Spouse who is unmarried, dependent upon you for support, and
i)	under age 21; or
ii)	under 25 and in full-time attendance at a school or University; or
iii)	mentally or physically incapacitated.
Means the Pension Plan for Designated Hourly Employees of Nestle Canada Inc. effective October 1, 1981.
Means the Restated Hourly Employee's Pension Plan of Robin Hood Multifoods Limited.
Means either:
i)	the person to whom you are legally married; or
ii)	the person of the opposite sex with whom you reside and publicly represent as your spouse and indicate in writing to be your spouse.
Means all sums of money and other property acquired by the Trustees to hold in trust for this Plan, and all earnings and profits thereon, and proceeds, investments and reinvestments thereof, less payments made by the Trustee from the said Fund as authorized herein.
Means Nestle's (Canada) Pension Management Corporation, appointed under the terms of a trust agreement entered into by Nestle, which agreemem shall be attached to and form part of the Plan; and its successors duly appointed for the purpose of holding and administering the Trust Fund.