Contract Term: May 1,2007 -April 30,2010
03776 (11)
EMPLOYEE CONTACT INFORMATION SHEET
Pension & Benefits Contact Information	
Employee Benefit Ran Services (EBPS) (Policy # 901699) 45 McIntosh Drive Markham, ON, L3R 8C7	8 : 905-946-9700 : 905-946-8535
Short Term Disability (STO) Canadian Benefits Management Limited (CBML) Box 87. 260 Adelaide St. East Toronto, ON, M5A IN!	8 : 416-362-CBML (2265) 8 : 866-538-CBML (2265) - Outside GTA * ; 416-362-2295 866-629-7894 - Outside GTA
Long Term Disability (LTD) Manulife Financial Claims Adjudicator - Josephine Chan	8.416-687-4435 - 416-687-5191
Unilever Canada Pension Plan (UCPP) Pension Administrator Simon Chan	8 416-963-4086 4 416 963-9742 www merceroneview.com/unilever
General Contact Information	
Teamsters Local Union 647 Martin Cerqua - Business Agent 5155 Spectrum Way • Unit #8 Mississauga, ON, L4W 5At	8 905-206-9494 8 800-387-9924 - Outside GTA 4 905 206-1720 martincerqua@bellnet ca
Unilever Canada - Rexdale Site fMeBeMrftdad- Rexdale Sile T9M6H0N, H8IM1G8 Toronto, ON.M9W1G8	
	S 416-240-474? - 24 Hour Security 8 416-240-4757 - Packaging Plant 8 416-240-4750 - Refinery Plant 8 416-240-4734 - Skylab 4 416-240-4741 - Fax
Unilever Canada - Payroll Unilever Canada - Payroll	
	8 416-240-4777 8 : 416-240*4774
Unilever Canada ■ Human Resources Unilever Peoplelink	8'866-379-7314 http //I unilever com/services
Employee Assistance Program: EAP Source Line: Corporate Wellness Services	8 416-234-1316
COLLECTIVE
AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
UNILEVER CANADA INC
AND
MILK AND BREAD DRIVERS, DAIRY EMPLOYEES CATERER SAND ALLIED EMPLOYEES LOCAL UNION NO. 647
EFFECTIVE MAY 1, 2007 TO
APRIL 30, 2010
INDEX
Article
1	Bargaining Unit
2	Recognition Check-off
4	Stewards
5	Grievance Procedure
6	Rules Applying tu Termination ol Employment
7	Establishing Seniority
8	Days and Hours of	Work
9	Paid Holidays and	Vacations
10	Uniforms
l 1	Social Welfare Benefits
12	Ridding for Vacant	Positions
1 3	General Notes
14	Supervisors
Out
16	Severance Pay
17	Safety Committee,
Expiration and Renewal of Agreement Appendix ‘A’ Wages Tool Allowance & Shift Premium COLA
Letters of Understanding Welfare Plan Summary
Page
2
2
3
4
5
6
7
1 2
18
22
22
2 6
27
29
29
29
31
32
33
34
33
3 6
49
AGREEMENT
THIS AGREEMENT made this to!t1 dav ot November, 2007,
BETWEEN-
CANADA INC., Toronto, Ontario
(hereinafter referred to as the "Employer")
and
MILK AND BREAD DRIVERS, DAIRY EMPLOYEES, CATERERS AND ALLIED EMPLOYEES LOCAL UNION NO. 647, affiliated with the International Brotherhood of Teamsters
(hereinafter referred to as the "Union”)
1
WITNESSETH:
It is the desire of the parties to this Agreement to establish, promote and foster a good relationship that will be enduring and of mutual benefit to both the Union and the Employer.
It is the essence of this Agreement that there shall be a maximum of cooperation and of help from the employees of the Employer to obtain all possible business and expand the operation of the Employer, and the parties hereto pledge their lull support and cooperation in this regard.
ARTICLE i BARGAINING UNIT
1.01	This Agreement shall cover every employee of the Company
working at Unilever Canada Inc., Rexdale, Ontario, save and except Supervisors (as defined in the Occupational Health and Safety Act of Ontario), persons above
the rank of Supervisor, office staff, research and development staff, sales staff, and persons covered by subsisting collective agreements.
ARTICLE2
RECOGNITION
Now THEREFORE, the parties hereto agree as follows;
2.01	The Employer agrees lo recognize the Milk and Bread Drivers, Etdly Employees, Caterers and Allied Employees Local Union 647, affiliated with the International Brotherhood of Teamsters as the sole collective bargaining agency for all such employees coming within the bargaining unit.
UNION CONDITION
2.02	The Employer agrees to inform all new employees hired (who are to be covered by this Agreement), that Union membership is a condition of employment after sixty (60) working days as per Article 7-07.
2.03	The Union office and the steward concerned shall he informed at the
time of all such new employees (cards for this purpose to be supplied by the Union). They shall be required to submit an application card to the steward at the end of sixty (6o)working day s. Faihng to do so, they shall be taken off thej ob at the requestof the Union. Such request must be in writing.
2
2.04	All members of the Union must maintain membership in the Union during the life of this Agreement as a condition ofemployment,
MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
2.05	The Employer retains all rights and privileges cf managementas not otherwise amended ty this Agreement.
ARTICLE 3 CHECK-OFF
The Employer agrees to a deduction from employee's wages of monthly union dues and assessments for union purposes, effective with the week
in which the employee is hired, as well as a deduction for initiation fee, so that the full initiation fee is deducted from the employee ty conclusion of the employee's probationary period, The deduction for dues and assessments mustbe forwarded to the Union office no later than the 10th day of each month for the previous months' deductions.
3.02	Initiation fees shall be held by the Employer until conclusion of probation and then forwarded to the Union. If the employee is not employed at the conclusion of probation, amounts deducted toward the initiation fee will be refunded to such employee.
3.03	The Union shall notify the Employer, in writing, a3 to the prevailing rate of Union dues and any assessments.
3.04	The Employer further agrees that in the event of an employee being on vacationatthe time of a regular deduction, such deduction shall be made from the employee's vacation pay.
3.05	In the case of the Union member being off through sickness on the dues deduction pay, his or her dues shall be taken off his or her fiat full pay following.
3.06	Annual union dues payment will be reported on the employee's T-4 slips
3
ARTICLE 4 STEWARDS
4.01	There shall be six (6)stewards at the plant to provide leadership and representation for the members of the Union. They shall also work together with the department managers and supervisors to ensure compliance with the provisions of this Agreement. The stewards will represent the following areas and employees: 1) refinery, 2) packaging plant day shift, 3) packaging plant afternoon shifi; 4) packaging plant night shift, 5) female employees. 6) maintenance. From the aforementioned group of stewards, the Employer shall recognize one (l) steward as the Chief Steward. The Chief Steward vll be elected by the entire membership at Unilever Canada Inc.
4.02	Such stewards shall he elected by Union members in the area concerned, and shall be an employee of the place in which heorsheisa steward. There shall be no discrimination against the steward for Union activities. Craft Group 2 vail receive representation and will be eligible to represent as stewards of the packaging plant.
4.03	The stewards shall have no authority to alter, amend, violate or otherwise change any part of this Agreement. The stewards shall report to the business agent cf the Union any violation of this Agreement.
4.04	The stewards vail be considered the senior employees in their craft groups in the event of a lay-off only. Should the lay-off involve stewards in the same craft group then years of service v£H govern.
4.05	layoffs or other changes effecting Union members will be communicated to Stewards by Management and will be considered confidential until that discussion has taken place to discuss the communication plan.
A copy of the Employer's bulletin pertaining to Union members shall be given to all the Stewards.
The stewards shall be allowed time to service any grievance. Representatives of the Union shall be allowed to contact stewards by asking permission ofthe department manager or superintendent.
4.08	The elected stewards and one representative from the lab. technicians
shall act as the negotiating committee. The Employer vail pay employees on the negotiating committee for up to eight hours per negotiating meeting with the Employer, up to, but not including conciliation.
4
ARTICLE 5
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
The employees through their accredited representative shall have the right to discuss at a suitable time any written grievance involving any
controversy, complaint, misunderstanding or dispute with the proper officials of the Employer. This meeting shall be held within three (3) working days of the time of the alleged grievance. The official shall give his or her answer within three (3)working days, and record the response on the grievance record.
5.02	If the reply is not satisfactory, a meeting shall be held within one (i)
calendar week with the Packaging Plant Manager, Refiner]! Manager, Plant Services Manager or Technical Manager and a reply shall he given, in writing,
within three (3) working days. If the reply is still not satisfactory, a meeting shall be arranged with the Plant Manager within two (2} calendar weeks. He or she shall give his or her reply, in writing, within one (1) calendar week. If the grievance remains unsettled it shall be subject to arbitration as follows. In either case, the reply will be provided to the grievor, with a copy to the area steward, chief steward, and the business agent of the Union.
5-03	(a) Within two (2) calendar weeks after the final discussion
between the Union and the Plant Manager, the party desiring arbitration shall notify! the other party in writing. A Board of Arbitration shall be immediately established consisting of one (i)appointee of the Union and one (I)appointee of the Employer, and a third (3rd) member to act as a Chairman, appointed on the recommendation of the first two (2) appointees. Should the members fail to agree on a Chairman within one (1) calendar week, they shall apply to the Minister of Labour forthe Province ofOntario, who shall appoint a Chairman.
(b)	Alternatively, either party! may exercise its right to apply for an expedited arbitration under the Labour Relations Act, but will notify the other party! in advance for the purpose of finding a mutually agreeable date for the initial Arbitration hearing.
5.04	Notwithstanding the foregoing time limits defined in the grievance
procedure, the time limits for second and third stages of the grievance procedure may be extended as agreed between the two parties.
Employees must be present at any stage of the grievance procedure, if so requested by either party.
5.06	The Board of Arbitration shall not have the right to alter or change
any of the provisions of this Agreement or substitute any new provisions in lieu thereof, or to give any decision inconsistent with the terms and provisions of this Agreement. Each of the parties hereto vill bear the expense of their appointee to the Board and vail equally bear the fees and expenses of the Chairman. The decision of the Board shall be final and binding on both parties.
5
5.07	It is further agreed that the Union and the Employer shall have the
right to originate a grievance at a time not later than three (3) months from the date of the alleged grievance with regard to any dispute in the interpretation or manner in which the contract is being comphed with. The Union and the Employer representative shall first discuss the complaint, such complaint to be either discussed or resolved within a period of three (3) working days. If no actual agreement is reached either part) shall submit to the arbitration procedure, provided all other steps of the grievance procedure (Article 5) have been utilized.
5.08	Payment of time and one-halfwill be made to the griever and steward for attendance at off-shift grievance meeting • basistime spent inthe meeting.
5.09	If the time limits, as stated above cannot be met. the griever may elect to proceed to the next step of the grievance procedure but not beyond third stage
ARTICLE 6
RULES APPLYING TO TERM I NATION OF EMPLOYM ENT
6.01	An employee's record of written disciplinary action shall be removed from his or her record eighteen (18) months from the date that the disciplinary action was first entered on his or her record. Any employee may request to attend with or without a Steward.
The employer shall not discipline or discharge an employee except for just cause. Further, the employer shall not discharge an employee unless reasonable, progressive discipline has taken place, except in the case of gross or willful misconduct. Copies cf all written disciplinary action will be provided to the Chief Steward in a timely manner.
6.02	In the event an employee leaves the Company for any reason, they will be entitled to a confirmation of employment letter, upon request.
6.03	When an employee has been dismissed, the Employer shall send a copy of the dismissal notice to the Union office within forty-eight (48) hours of the dismissal with the reasons for the dismissal.
6
ARTICLE?
ESTABLISHINGSENIORITY
7.01	lists showing seniority of service by Craft Group and plant-wide shall be compiled and kept posted on all bulletin board.. . These lists will fce revised every three (3) months, new employees' names to be added immediately and verified by the steward forposting. Where two employees establish seniority on the same date, seniority will be in alphabetic order of surname. A copy of the seniority list will be sent tothe Union office.
7.02	There shall be five f5/craft groups for the purpose of differentiation in the matter of seniority. There is no intention to modify the classifications listed below in the term of this agreement, except as outlined in the memorandum of agreement.
Groupl_______________Packaging
Classifications:	Packaging Technician
Milk Room Operator MachineOperator Sanitation Operator Hot Box/Aima Press Operator Scrubber/Janitor
GroupII______________Materia! Handling
Classifications:	Shipper/Receiver
Distribution Operator Truck Driver
Group 111____________Maintenance
(A) Central Classifications:	Mechanic
Electronic Technician
(B) Packaging Classifications:	Automatic PackingEquipment
Mechanic
(C)	General Classifications: Lubrication Specialist
Note: There will be no change in the existing practice with respect to the assignment of Mechanical Tradespeople to work areas and/or the plant-wide opportunities for overtime.
7
Group N
Refinery
Classifications:	Refinery Operator
Un)oading/Aodulation Operator General Help
Note: Refinery Operator includes the following components: Hydrogenation. Control Room. Formulation. Batch, and Water Treatment.
Group V____________Laboratory
Classifications:	Chief Technician
Skilled Technician
7.03	Leave of Absence
In the event of sickness of an employee, or in the went of sickness in the employee's family necessitating time off,leave of absence may be granted for a period up to six (6)months by mutual agreement between the Employer and the Union without loss of seniority. When requesting leave of absence because of sickness in an employee's family, a doctor's certificate must accompany the request before it can be considered.
(b)	Where definite proof is given of extreme necessity, this leave of absence may be extended by mutual agreement between the Union and the Employer
(c)	Leave of absence for any other reason may be granted subject to the operational requirements of the business.
(d)	No employee shall he given leave of absence for the purpose of going into other empioyment.
(e)	Requests for leave of absence must be made in writing with a copy given to the Union steward.
(0 leave of absence for any other reason than sickness of an employe or sickness in an employee's family should be requested with a maximum of six (6) month's notice in advance. If more than one (1) person applies for the same time period, leave will be granted on a first come first serve basis.
(g)	The Employer will advise the employee within 30 days of request, as to whether leave of absence has been approved.
a
7.04
Lay-offs
(a)	In the event of a layoff, workforce reduction, or job elimination the affected employees would have the option to accept layoff or bump within their own craft group. In the event of a multiple layoff the senior employees would have the choice of the junior johs available (eg. if three people are bumping the most senior would have first choice of the three most junior jobs. The second most senior has choice of the two remaining jobs and the least senior takes the last remaining j unior job.)
(b)	Employees who are scheduled for lay off within their own Craft Group, may bump between craft groups. Exceptions would be Craft Groups III and V where special qualifications are necessary and layoffs in those groups would be by seniority' within the group.
(c)	Any person who has bumped into another job and fails to qualify within the training period will be laid off and placed on the re-employment list. This assessment will be made after the first four weeks of training.
(d)	Employees who have bumped retain their classifications for six (6) month and are subject to recall to their former positions. At the conclusion of the six (6) month period,
employees will assume their new classification.
(e)	In the event ofa major force reduction where a clean up crew is required, the most senior employees will be retained.
(0 If a layoff in Craft Group III is extended beyond five (5) working days, surplus employees having appropriate seniority' in:
i)	Group III (A) Mechanic role may bump into Craft
Group III (B)	'
ii)	Group III (B) may bump into Craft Group III (A) Mechanic role.
(g)	During the training period, the right to preferential shift selection by seniority', may be temporarily suspended.
(h)	Employees to be laid off will be given five (5) days notice if a layoff is to extend beyond one (l) week except in case of emergency.
9
(i)	For the purpose of layoff, Craft Group III shall be considered to contain two categories.
(A)	General Mechanics
(B)	Electronic Technician
Layoff will affect the most junior person in the affected category A.
Layoffin category B will be by seniority' within the trade.
0 Apprentices in maintenance will not be laid df during the pent of their apprenticeship and they may share in overtime if work with a tradesperson
7.05	Re-Employment Lists
All employees laid off by the Employer shall be placed on the
Employer's seniority' list for re-employment for five (5)years Separate lists shall be maintained for each Craft Group. All employees recalled within five (5) years from the date of layoff shall be given continued seniority for the total period employed.
7.06	Temporary'Vacancies
(a)	Where the Employer wishes to fill a temporary vacancy, it will do so in the following order
i.	With the senior employee having the same classification working SB a spare employee or working as a re-assigned employee on that shift.
ii.	With the senior qualified general help available on the shift in question, provided such re-assignment does not result in overtime.
iii.	If there are no spare unassigned or general help employees available, then the overtime procedure will be followed.
iv.	Unscheduled daily vacancies in Group 1 (Machine Operator) shall be filled by senior unoccupied employees in the Group I Machine Operator classification and, in the case of multiple vacancies, qualified operators will have the right to choose in order of seniority.
(b)	Long Term Vacancies - When an employee is accepted for LTD benefits, the job shall be posted as a temporary vacancy with the following conditions:
10
i.	The posting will reflect the temporary status of the position and state that there is potential for the bidder to be returned to his/her original classification if the employee who vacated the position returns to work.
iL The bidder will return to his/her original classification and the junior employee in that craftgroup will be subject to lay-off.
iii. If the temporary position becomes permanent, the bidder will automatically retain the position aid the j ob will not be posted
(c)	Maternity Leave - In the event an employee notifies the Company of their intent to exercise their right to maternity and/or parental leave in accordance with the Employment Standards Act. the Company, at their discretion, will post the position as a temporaiy vacancy prior to the commencement of the leave. The employee will inform the Company of their expectedretum date a minimum of 4 weeks prior to that date. The conditions of the temporary vacancy are outlined in 7.06 (b) i, ii, iii.
(d)	Indefinite Absence - An employee who has a catastrophic medical event and is able to provide medical certification that the absence will extend beyond the 26 week period, The Company will at their discretion, post the position as a temporary vacancy as soon as such medical documentation is received.
7.07	Probationary Employees
When a new employee is hired the Employee shall consider the first sixty (60) working days of his or her employment as probation. Once a new employeehas completed their probationary period they will be eligible to apply for any posted position.
7.08	The Employerwill advise the Unionofthe elimination of any job
classification.
11
ARTICLE 8
DAYS AND HOURS OF WORK
8.01	(i)(a) Five (5) consecutive days of eight (8)hours shall constitute a working week for all employees. The regular work week begins Sunday at 11:30 p.m. and ends Friday at 11:30 p.m
Shift times are as follows:
A shift 11:30 p.m. to 7:30 a.m.
B shift 7:30 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. Cshift 3:30 p.m. to 11:30 p.m.
Should the Company determine there is a requirement for extended production capabilities, it may implement the Alternative Shift Pattern as agreed and attached to this Collective Agreement. In the initial implementation, the Company will follow the phased implementation plan outlined in the attached shift document. The Company will discuss the implementation plans with the Steward Committee and the Union Business Agent.
(b)	Employees shall not be replaced prior to completing their eight (R) hours when the line they are working on is continuing in production.
(c)	Employees shall be paid at the rate of time and one-half (l & V2) the base rate of the job for all hours worked in excess of eight (8) hours in any one day and for the "A" (night) and "B" (day) shifts on Saturday. In no case shall more than one (I) premium apply.
(d)	No employees shall he allowed to work more than sixteen (16) hours in any one day except for truck driven. The Employer will offer overtime in four (4) or eight (8) hour maximum blocks.
(e)	The "C" (evening) shifton Saturday and all Sunday shifts shall be paid at the rate of two (2) times the base rate of thej ob and in no case shall more than one (I) premium apply.
(0 All work started before an employee's normal starting time
shall he paid at the appropriate premium rate.
12
(ii)	Altem ati ve Sh ift Arra ngem ent:
1.	The purpose of this agreement is to provide a socially acceptable six day pattern which fulfils the needs of the employees and meetsthe demands on the Business.
2.	This agreement will apply to all employees who are required to work on a six day shift schedule.
3.	Employees vail work either twelve (12) hour shifts, as shown on the attached schedule. The shift pattern will start at 7:30 p.m. on Sunday and end at 7:30 p.m. on Saturday. For the purposes of this shift agreement, a day is a twelve (12) hour shift, (e.g. one sick day taken = 12 hours paid, and annual entitlement reduced by one)
4.	Withdrawal from this shift pattern will require a minimum notice period of four (4) weeks.
5.	Pay ment for the twelve (12) hour shift p attern vail be as follows:
a)	Regular Time
" All hours worked as part of the regular six (6) day will be paid at the rate of forty -two (42) hours per week.
L--------
Overtime will he offered according to the tems of the Collective
Agreement.
All hours worked on any off-day an employ ee is calledin or scheduled to work, except as provided in item #5, (c). (maximum twelve (12) hours)
c)	Double Time
All hours worked on a Sunday, Statutory, Public, or Selected Holiday; or when working a second scheduled off-day in any calender week
6.	Statutory or Selected Holidays
a)	It is the intention of the Company to suspend operations for twenty-four (24) hours on these holidays. The shutdown vail occur from 7:30 p.m. the evening prior to the Holiday until 7:30 p.m. on the Holiday.
7.	Vacation
a)	A week of vacation must be scheduled in blacks of three (3) shifts when on the twelve (12) hour portion of the shift pattern, and employees will be guaranteed the scheduled days off in the calendar week of the scheduled vacation.
13
b)	Vacation will be charged on the basis of scheduled hours during that calendar week and will he paid on the basis of the standard weekly payment outlined in Item 5 (a).
In the event an employee has a need for a single day of vacation. arrangements must be made at least one full week in advance to allow for the arrangement of coverage. In these circumstances, vacation will be charged on the hasis of scheduled hours and the weekly payment for that week vill be unaffected subjectto an adjustment under the provisions of clause 9.05.
8.	gick Pay
a)	Sick pay, for individual days, will be paid at one-third (1/3) of the standard weekly payment outlined in Item 5 (a).
b)	Sick pay for a block of three (3) - twelve (12) hour shifts will be standard weekly payment outlined in Item 5 (a), provided the employee has no waiting period.
Waiting days will be charged on the basis of a "scheduled day", and the remaining days of that week will be paid (<>> one - third of the weekly rate per day worked
9.	Meal Periods
a)	Employees will be entitled to two (2) -thirty (30) minute meal periods during a twelve (12) hour shift.
b)	In any event, employees vill not he required to work more than five (5)consecutive hours without a meal period
c)	three (3) - fifteen (15)minute breaks will he provided during each twelve hour shift.
10.	Employees have the right lo mutually switch shifts/davs provided:
a)	The appropriate Supervisor has been notified and the replacement employee is a "suitable replacement".
b)	No employee works more than twelve (12) consecutive hours, or more than the agreed allowable weekly hours as a result of the switch.
c)	Any employee who is switching shifts, and who has worked twelve hours, has had at least twelve (12) hours off between shifts.
d)	There is no additional cost to the Company as a result of the switch.
14
e)	If the switched shift is to be paid back, the pay -back shift must be indicated to the appropriate supervisor as soon as it is known.
Should any employee create disruption and additional costs due to unreasonable absenteeism in these circumstances, the Company may revoke that employee’s right to switch shifts.
11.	Implementation
Should this shift pattern be implemented the following methodology will be used to determine which employees will work on the shift pattern:
a)	A notice will be posted in the areas affected indicating the number of employees required for the shift pattern and asking for volunteers from the classifications required to fulfill the requirement. Only employees from within the classifications affected may volunteer.
b)	Should insufficient volunteers be obtained, employees will be assigned to the shift pattern in reverse order ofseniority from vithin the affected classifications.
c)	If the requirement is expected to be longer than twenty (20) weeks, the resulting vacancies vifL be posted in the normal manner outlined in the Collective Agreement.
d)	If the requirement is expected to be less than twenty (20) weeks, the resulting vacancies will be filled using cross trained fill-ins.
e)	In the event the production requirements no longer support the need for the pattern, employees will return to their previously held positions.
12.	In the event there is no requirement for produdion in the assigned six (6) day pattern area, the affected employees may be reassigned to perform any available work they are capable of performing.
13.	Shift premium vill be paid @ $1,25 per hour on the night (N)shift only, paid on the standard weekly payment outlined in 5 (a)
14.	All operators on the shift viH be provided an opportunity! to participate in Packaging Technician training voluntarily and in order of seniority!.
One third of the line operators on each crew must agree to participate in Packaging Technician training. Training will be offered in order of seniority but win be imposed by reverse seniority if necessary.
15
15-	Implementationschedule	: Not before January 7,2008. These
numbers are actually intended to be maximums; actual implementation will be based on business needs which may be less than the outline below.
a)	Maximum 8 employees per crew - total 32
l Trade 1 Milk room 5 Line uperators 1 Distribution operator
Operating any Combination of line(s) 2, 5i or 15. In the event that there arc no production requirements for any of the aforementioned lines on Saturday, the employees scheduled to run the affected lines may be used on alternative lines where production is required.
(In the event any of the listed lines arc removed from the site, replacement lines will be substituted but the numbers of operators on the pattern permitted on the shift will remain the same)
b)	Any further expansion of the shift pattern will have to be mutually agreed between the Union and the Company and ratified in whatever manner the Union determines necessary.
8.02	No change in starting time of any employee shall take place until notification and explanation has been given to the steward in the department involved An employee's shift shall not be changed unless one (l) week's notice is given to the steward and employee involved
8.03	Absenteeism by an employee without just cause or notification to the Employer shall be considered abuse of this Agreement, and may be cause for dismissal or suspension by the Employer or discipline by the Union.
8.04	All inside employees shall be entitled to a rest period allotted by management during each half shift Lunch periods shall not be within three (3) hours of starting time or after five (5)hours worked.
Breaks and meal periods in the packaging plant shall be:
Shih	A		B	C	
Breaks Meals	two	10 minute 30 minutes	two 10 minute 30 minutes	two	10 minute 30 minutes
16
8.05	Employees required to work (10) consecutive hours on one (I) shift
shall be entitled to a fifteen (15) minute break within the first overtime hour and a meal allowance in the amount of $9.00.
(a)	Any call-in, or off-day overtime schedule shall guarantee the employee four (4) hours, however the employee may be assigned work to occupy the entire four hours.
In the event an employee is called in more than four (4) hours prior to their starting time, they will only be required to perform the work for which they were call£d,and will be entitled to the four (4) hours pay at time and one-half (1&1/2) or double (2) time, whichever is appropriate.
8.07	There shall be no split shifts unless jointly agreed to by the steward
and the employee concerned t ogether with management.
8.08	Shift Overlap
To protect the continuity of operations an employee remain on his or her job until relieved fora period of up to fifteens) minutes maximum Normal overtime rates will prevail during this additional period.
Employees working shift overlap will be paid 15 minutes for any time worked while waiting to be relieved The late-arriving employee's wages will be deducted accordingly.
8.09	When an employ ee is absent from work due to negotiations, he or she will not be penalized or charged as refusing hours on overtime schedule for his or her department.
8.10	An employee transferred from one shift to another, will any-over his or her existing overtime hours, to his or her new shift, should no other employees existwithin his or her job classification on the new shift.
17
ARTICLE 9
PAID HOLIDAYS AND VACATIONS 9.01	Vacations
Subject to all other applicable provisions of this Article, vacation
entitlements shall be based on the following schedule:
(i)	Up to one (1) year seniority: One (1) day for each five{5) weeks completed sendee between July V and June 30th, inclusive.
(ii)	The two (2) week, or ten (to) day entitlement is awarded in the calendar year following the first (i*1) anniversary' of the employee's seniority' date.
(iii)	The three (3) week, or fifteen (15) day entitlement is awarded in the same calendar year as the fifth (5ih) anniversary of the employee's seniority' date.
(iv)	The four (4) week or twenty (20) day entitlement is awarded in the same calendar year as the tenth (10th) anniversary cf the employee's seniority date.
(v)	The five (5) week, or twenty-five (25) day entitlement is awarded in the same calendar year as the seventeenth (l7h) anniversary cf the employee's seniority date.
(vi)	The six (6) week, or thirty (30) day entitlement is awarded in the same calendar year as the twenty-eighth (28th) anniversary cf the employee's seniority date.
(vii)	The vacation y ear is a twelve (12) month period from July 110 June 30. Employees accrue vacation in the current twelve month period to be used in the next 12 month period. For the purposes of calculating part year vacation entitlement or vacation entitlement in the first year of employment the following criteria will be used: For each five week period between July 1 and June 30 an employee will earn vacation based on the following schedule. 2 3 4 5
2 week entitlement = I day
3	week entitlement = 1.5 days
4	week entitlement = 2 days
5	week entitlement = 2.5 day’s
18
9-02	In consideration of the staffing requirements cf the business,
employees entitled to three (3), four (4), five (5) or six (6) weeks' vacation may quest additional vacation during the regular vacation period. Such additional vacation wall be scheduled by the Employer and will he assigned on the basis of seniority. The Employer shall determine the number of employees in a classificationwho may begranted additional leave.
9.03	It is further agreed that the Employer will seriously endeavour to have the plant closed during July for a two (2) week period. If due to production problems this is not possible, arrangements shall be made to give employees their holidays on a seniority basis, from June 1st to September 30th,
9.04	For the purpose of determining holidays, the year shall be considered as of the First of July of an) calendar year; that is, an employee would have to be employed for six (6) months prior to July m in order to be eligible fora vacation in that year. The following dates are to be observed with regards to scheduling of employeevacationsaccording to seniority.
On February isl a vacation list vail he posted. Employees wishing to schedule a vacation in the period July i5‘ - December 31s1 must submit a request to their supervisor indicating vacation weeks preferred by February 21s1. The supervisor will advise employees which weeks are granted no later than March 15th by posting a vacation schedule.
On September 1st a vacation list will he posted. Employees wishing to schedule a vacation in the period January i5t - June 30th must submit a request to the supervisor indicating vacation weeks preferred by September 21st. The supervisor will advise employees which weeks are granted no later than October 15th by posting a vacation schedule.
Seniority will be taken into consideration by supervisors in resolving any scheduling conflicts in the three (3) week period following filing dates providingthe original request was submitted by filing date.
Seniority will not apply to scheduling of vacation weeks requested after March 21st and September 2iM. These requests wall be considered solely on the basis of remaining weeks availableat date of request. Management wOl provide a response (approval or denial) to these requests within two (2) weeks of the request.
9.05	V acation pay for each week of vacation entitlement shall be computed at the rate of two percent (2%) of the previous years' earnings as per T-4 slips less vacation pay, taxable benefits and allowances, or the equivalent of forty (40) hours at the base rate cf the employee at the time of vacation, whichever is the greater. Such vacation pay shall be paid on the Wednesday payday before the scheduled vacation provided sufficient notice (2 full weeks) is given by the employee. All vacation entitlement must be taken in the vacation year.
19
Employees who have been absent for a period in excess of thirty (30) days during the vacation year as defined in 9.04 shall be eligible only for vacation pay based on the percentage calculation applied to their T-4 slip of the year prior excluding employees who have been on VVSIB and/or Weekly Indemnity'.
New employees shall receive 4 percent (4%) of their total earningsup to July 1st of the vacation year, plus the V2 day entitlement of Article 9.01.
9.06	Any employee terminating his or her employment with the Employer who is entitled to two (2), three (3). four (4). five (5) or six weeks' vacation, depending on his or her length of service, shall receive vacation pay at the rate of4. 6, 8, ioor 12% of his or her earnings as the case may be for the period worked since the previous July 1st.
9.07	Persons who are on lay-off because of shortage of work for any part of the vacation year but who have sufficient seniority' to qualify for more vacation payment than provided under Employment Standards Act, shall receive vacation pay based on their vacation credits, ie, 4, 6, 8, 10 or 12% as the case may be, for such vacation year for time actually worked for the Employer.
9.08	Paid Holidays
Employees shall qualify for payment at the rate of eight (8) hours at their regular rate, for the following paid holidays:
New Year's Day
Good Friday Victoria Day
Canada Day Civic Holiday Labour Day
Thanksgiving Day Christmas Eve Christmas Day Boxing Day New Year's Eve Family Day
In addition to the 12 Fixed Paid Holidays Employees shall qualify for one (I) Floater Day per calendar year. This day will be hooked as per vacation selection guidelines andgrantedatthe discretion of Management.
9.09	Probationay employees, persons on weekly indemnity, persons off on WSIB benefits, and persons on lay-off up to thirty (30) days at the time of the paid holiday, shall qualify lor payment. Persons on lay-off in excess of thirty' (30) days or on leave of absence shall nut qualify fur paid holiday payment.
9.10	If an employee is required to work on any paid holiday, in addition to the payment referred to in 9<08, he or she shall be paid at the rate of double time for all hours worked, or, at the discretion of the employee, shall receive lieu tim e to a maximum of two (2) days, depending on hours worked. The Employer must be notified within three (3) days of the employee's decision. Available lieu days as determined by the Employer will be pouted, and employees will bid on seniority' basis for available days. All Lieu days will be tracked on the site Vacation Spreadsheet and must be utilized within a 12 month period from when they were earned.
20
9-ii	Should any paid holiday occur during an employee's vacation or day
off, he or she shall receive either a day in lieu thereof or a day's pay at the employee's choice. If a day in lieu, is requested by the employee, it will be scheduled consistent with production requirements.
Should the Employer require a Monday start-up after the summer closure, the Employer will first request vo lun teers. Should insufficient volunteers be available, the Employer vail schedule remaining employees by reverse seniority within the required job classifications. At least three (3) weeks notice prior to start of summer plant shutdown will be given, should the Employer require a Mondaystart-up.
ARTICLE io UNIFORMS
10.01	All employees will be provided with uniforms suitable to perform their work assignments. Uniforms must be worn, in full, by all employees.
(a)	Employees required to work outside vill be provided wi th appropriate uniforms includingparkas or vests, raincoats and rubber boots.
(b)	Parkas, vests and raincoats will be replaced as required. Rubber boots will be replaced as required.
10.02	The Employer shall pay ioo% of the initial cost and subsequent cleaning cf uniforms.
ARTICLE li
SOCIAL WELFARE BENEFITS
li.oi	Pension Plan Allowance
Effective May l, 2007, the Company will pay an annual pension allowanceof one thousand and five hundred dollars ($1500) to employees who are not members of the Unilever Canada Pension Plan. This payment vill be made on December^1*' of each calendar year. EffectiveMay l, 2009, this payment will be increased 10 one thousand and six hundred dollars ($1600) per year (Roll in to RRSP if desired via Company approved financial institution).
All employees currently members of the Unilever Canada Pension Plan, or who have been hired since May 1. 2004, are not eligible for the pension allowance. Further, all new hires are required toj oin the UCPP as a condition of employment.
21
It is the intention of the Company to introduce an alternative Pension plan duringthec alendar y ear of 200 8. In this cir cum stance, employ ee s pres ently ineligible to join theUCPP (49 - at this writing) will be provided a one-time opportunity toj oin the new plan. Employees whoj oin the new plan will forfeit their right to the pension allowance.
11.02	Welfare Plan
(v)	The Employer shall contribute the appropriate
premium per week per employee towards the funding of the Union major medical rider.
22
(b)	All contributions shall be forwarded t o
Employee Benefit Plan Services Ltd.,
45 McIntosh Drive Markham, ON L3R8C7
The Employer agrees to pay the full premium for each week the employee has money coming to them while absent from
work. The premium wfll then be paid by the Welfare Plan for a period to be arrived at by the Trustees for absences due to sickness or accident.
All new permanent employees shall become eligible for the benefits described in 12.02 at the conclusion of sixty (60) working days of employment. New Union employees or employees returning from lay-off or leave of absence shall be entitled to the above benefits from the first week of reemployment,
11.03	Prescription Drug Plan
(a)	The Employer will pay the premium cost of a pay direct prescription drug plan equivalent to Blue Cross. Effective September l, 1990, prescribed vitamins will be included as put of Drug Plan coverage. Effective July 1,1996, prescribed preventative drugs will be included as part of Drug Plan coverage.
Payment of Prescript ion Drugs will follow the process below:
Receipts will he submitted in sealed envelopes to Human Resources (envelopes will be provided by Human Resources). All receipts received by 12:00pm on Wednesday will be forwarded to the Benefit Plan Administrator for approval. All receipts approved by Friday of each week will be submitted to payroll for reimbursement on the following week's pay. Receipts received in Human Resources after 12:00pm on Wednesday will be submitted the following week for approval.
(b)	All new permanent employees, hired on or before the 15th day of the month, shall become and remain members of the Plan on the first day of the second month following their date of employment; all new permanent employees hired after the 15th day of the month shall become members of the Plan on the first day of the third (3rd) month following their date of employment.
(c)
(d)
23
Sick Pay Plan
11.04
The Employer agrees to provide asickpay plan on the following basis:
(a)	A bank of eight (8) days sick pay credits will be established for each employee beginning on the 16th day of December of each year. This bank of (8) days will be reduced by one-half (V2) day each month not worked, as per letter of Understanding dated January 29,1970.
I.	Where an eligible employee is absent because of sickness or non-
occupational accident and has established a claim under the STD, or is absent due to occupational accident, such employee shall continue to receive sick pay credits at one half day per month during the period of absence, up to a maximum cf six months.
II.	An eligible employee who is laid off in any calendar month must
have io working days credit in that calendar month to qualify for sick pay credit.
III.	An eligible employee who is on leave of absence must have io
working days credit in a calendar month to qualify for sick pay
credit.
(b)	Pay-Out: It i S agreed that the Employer will pay off any unused sick pay credits at the end of each calendar year. This payment will be made by December 15th of each year. Payments willbe calculated on the basis of current wage rates.
(c)	Use: It i S agreed that the Employer will apply a sick pay credit(s) to cover for waiting day(s) when an employee is booking off sick. If an Employee exhausts his earned bank the waiting day will be unpaid
11.05	Dental Plan
(a)	The Employer agrees to pay the full cost of the Preventative Basic Dental Plan 9 and Rider 2. or its equivalent and 50% of the cost of major procedures (inlays, onlays, crowns, caps and bridges) to an annual maximum of $1000.
The basis of payment for services and supplies will be on a one year lag per the current ODA fee guide. This will refresh January 1st of each year. (ie. On January 1, 2008 services and supplies will be reimbursed based on the 2007 ODA fee guide)
(b)	All new permanent employees, hired on or before the 15th day of a month, shall become members of the Plan on the first day of the second month following their date of employment; all new permanent employees hired after the 15th day cf a month, shall become members of the Plan on the first day of the third (3rd) month following their date of employment.
24
11.06	LTD
The Employer will prmide LTD premium contributions to provide the Monthly Income Benefits effective with disabilities commencing on or after: (2 years own occupation)
EMay 1, 2007	[ May 1, 2008 f ~ May 1,2009
$2400_________ [	$2409 .	1	$2400
Prescription Drug coterage will be offered to employees who are accepted onto LTD and the Company will pay 50/6 of the cost of presci iptioti Drug coverage. It will be optional for employees to select or refuse this co\ eragc at the time they are accepted on LTD.
Life Waiver of Premium for Life Insurance is provided for all employees on LT.D. under "ownoccupation"or “any occupation” conditions.
11.07	Vision Care
The Employer will contribute the appropnate premium per employee per month tofund aVisionCare plan, effective July 1,1996.
11.08	Retirement Benefit
Employees aged 55 or more who have a combined age plus service of 80 years or higher and elect to take earl! retirement will have prescription drug plan, Vision Care and Dental Plan premiums paid ontheirbehalftoage6<jyears.
11.09	I^ay-ofT Benefits
General Benefits for 4 months - not including STD or LTD Major Med, including drugs, for 6 mouths - not including STD, LTD, dental, or Life Insurance.
NOTE: If during the course of this agreement OHIP is reinstituted, then the Employer will pa) premiums for each eligible employee under the pnor terms and conditions of the prev 10 us contract.
25
ARTICLE 12
BIDDING FOR VACANT POSITIONS
(a) All new positions and vacancies shall be publicly posted and shall remain on all the plant notice boards for a period of seven (7) calendar days. Postings will include the number of vacancies in the classification, qualifications where appropriate (trades, laboratory), as well as the opening and closing time for applications to be submitted, No applications will be accepted after the closing time listed on the job posting.
Current laboratory employees will he grandfathered in their roles, and wEL not be required to meet the new qualifications; however any new employee!, posting into the Laboratory vilLlie required to meet Qualifications as determined by Management. Employees bidding into the Laboratory who have held a position in the laboratory craft group within the last eight (8) years viL not be required to meet the revised qualifications or retake the written test.
Vacancies from different classifications wall not be posted at the same time.
All applications for job postings must be submitted by the employee, in writing, on the Job Application form, with one (l) copy provided to the Human ResourcesDepartment and one (I) copy provided to the appropriate Steward.
12.03	(a) Applications will be reviewed and postings awarded on the following basis:
The senior employee who:
(a)	has no applicable medical restriction preventing them from performing the essential duties of thej ob (e.g. LTD).
All vacant positions and all new positions shall he publicly posted as stated in Clause 12.02.
12.04	The successful candidate will be offered the position and will have twenty-four hours to decide whether they accept or decline.
12.05	(a) A notice, indicating the successful applicant, will be posted within forty-eight (48) hours of the acceptance of the position and the employee wall be moved to the position within four (4) weeks of the notice.
(b)	Employees accepting positions through thejob posting process, or through external recruitment, will not be permitted to accept another position for a minimum of twelve (12) months from the date of the notice in (a) or the date of hire, whichever is applicable.
(b)
(c)
12.02
26
12.o6	Vacancies resulting from a termination of employment wiU not be posted until the conclusion of the third step of the resulting grievance, or until the Union confirms a grievance will not be forthcoming,
Packaging Technician Role:
As of May l", 2004 the parties agreed to the implementation of a Packaging Technician classification in Group I. In addition to all regular duties of a Machine Operator, Packaging Technicians are required to perform the following j ob functions on all lines within their cell team.
1)	Mechanical Changeover
2)	Minor Lubrication
3)	Minor Adjustments
4)	Sanitation/CIP
Opportunities to move into the Packaging Technician dassi flea ti on will occur when new positions are posted. The successful applicant will receive the new pay rate following completion of their training and are certified in all aspects of the position onone(i) line within their cell team
In the event that overtime is required to complete the extended duties of the Packaging Technician, it will be offered to employees in the existing relevant classification beforebeing offeredto the packaging technician.
Employees who have volunteered for training or have successfully bid onjobs as a Packaging Technician will be trained in order of seniority. Current Machine Operators and Sanitation Operators are grandfathered and will remain in their position unless they choose to bid out or the classification is eliminated, however no further Machine Operator or SanitationOperator vacancies will be posted.
ARTICLE 13 GENERAL NOTES
13.01	This Agreement shall not take from the employ ees any privileges they have hitherto enjoyed, except as are specifically dealt with in this Agreement.
13.02	Employees will be paid at the rate of the highest job class they perform during the course of a shift or at the rate of the job they regularly perform, whichever is greater.
13.03	No employee shall be asked or permitted to make any verbal or written agreement which may conflict with the Agreement.
13.04	In the case of lock-outs or strike of any Union, it shall not be considered a violation of this Agreement for any member of the Union to refuse to deliver goods where such a controversy is going on.
27
The Union vaEL not call or sanction or enforce any sympathetic strike of its members and the Employer shall not aid other Employers in any fight that may be waged against the Union.
It is agreed that the participation of any driver or any employee in any such controversy shall not interfere with his or her regular duties with the Employer,
13-05	It is also agreed that the wage summary outlined in the Appendix is
recognized as part of this Agreement,
13.06	In the event of a death in the immediate family of an employee covered by this Agreement. the Employer agrees to grant the employee the necessary time offwith out loss of pay up to five (5) days. Immediate family shall be considered as father, mother, stepfather. stepmother, mother-in-law, father-inlaw, wife, husband common law spouse, sister, brother, son, daughter, step-son and step daughter.
Two days bereavement time off with pay vail he allowed for the death of grandparents, grandchildren, sister-in-law or brother-in-law. son-in-law, daughter-in-law.
13.07	Where it is necessary for any employees to be absent from work on Union business, the Employer agrees to release such employee for the time necessary at the request of the Union. at no expense to the Employer.
1308	Where an employee is called for jury duty or is subpoenaed as a
witness, the employee shall be paid his or her full pay by the Employer. Such employee viEL give their jury pay or witness pay cheque to the Employer in return.
13-09	Shift staffs for groups I, II, III, and V shall be by choice of seniority.
Employees are only permitted to exercise this privilege once within a rolling twelve month period and this time period will not be shortened or eliminated in the went the employee accepts a voluntary shift change. Group N shall continue as presently practised. When an employee exercises his/her seniority to fill a requirement for a shift that is in place for less than one year, the employee's obligation to remain on that shift shall end when the shift is removed.
Before any changes to a rotational shift, the Employer and the Union agree to discuss and mutually agree to change in the present system.
13.11	(a) The Employer will continue training programs as required by the operation.
(b)	The Employer v£EL create a joint training committee to give recommendations regarding alljob training requirements.
13.12	No employee shall work alone when cleaning out tank trucks. tank cars or the large storage tanks.
28
13.13	The contract shall be printed in booklet form with the cost of printing borne by the Employer. The Employer will provide the Union with a supply of printed contracts.
13.14	The Union shall be provided with five locked, glass-faced notice boardsin Refinery, Packaging Plant, Specialty Fats Plant, Skylab and Maintenance.
13.15	Education Assistance
One hundred percent (100%) of Tuition fees and textbooks are paid by the Employer for any course an employee is asked to take or is required to take as a condition of employment. The Employer will pay fifty percent (50%)of the cost initially and fifty percent (50%) after the employee success fully completes the course.
13.16	It is the duty of all employees to make sure they are clean and tidy while processing food, and it is agreed that an employee failing to comply with this request v£EL be subject to discipline by management.
ARTICLE 14 SUPERVISORS
14.01	No person who is excluded from the bargaining unit will be allowed
to perform duties of an employee in the bargaining unit except in the case of emergency or for the purposes of training an employee.
ARTICLE 15
JOBBING OUT
15.01	For economic and/or capacity reasons it may from time to time be necessary for Unilever Canada Inc., to assign work lo individuals outside the scope of the Collective Agreement. Should this be necessary, the Employer and Union wi 11 meet and discuss the reasons for such work assignment.
ARTICLE 16 SEVERANCEPAY
16.01	(a) Employees who are laid off after September 1,2007 shall be
placed on the recall list for a period of five (5) years. Such employees will be eligible to receive severance pay any time after four (4) consecutive weeks of lay off, provided they abandon their recall rights and any associated rights under the Collective Agreement.
29
(b)	Severance pay for normal lay offs will be calculated at ten (io) days, plus three hundred dollars ($300.00), per year of sendee (pro-rated for partial years) calculated at the employee's base rate of pay as outlined in Appendix “A", Under this normal lay-off protocol,employees will be entitled to either, onethousand dollars ($1000.00) re-training allowance or outplacement sendees provided through the normal Company provider.
(c)	In future circumstances which result in permanent layoffs,not including a total plant shutdown, the Company will offervoluntary enhanced severances, by seniority, to a minimum of 30% of the total number of layoffs announced in any individual circumstance. Employees who volunteer and receive the enhanced severance WJ1 be required to abandon their recall and associated rights as outlined in (a), however the retirement option in 11:08 would also be available to employees in this scenario.
Employees accepting the enhanced severance would not be subject to the four (4) week delay in qualifying for their severance payment.
For the lay-offs announced in August, 2007, to be actuated during the life ofthis Collective Agreement, the Company will offer voluntary enhanced severance opportun Sties to a minimum of thirty (30) employees by seniority.
In the event of a total plant closure, which is defined as a total bargaining unit closure, the Company agrees to meet with the Union to discuss the severance conditions applicableto that situation.
(d)	The enhanced severance option applicable in item (c) will be paid at fifteen (15) days, plus three hundred and fifty dollars ($350) peryear of sendee (pro-rated for partial years). This payment vilL be calculated at the employee's base rate of pay as outlined in Appendix "A".
All employees, severed under the enhanced severanre option outlined herein, will be entitled to Company paid benefits (prescription drugs, vision care and dental only) to age sixty-five (65), provided the conditions of age and sendee outlined in Clause 11:08 are met.
(e)	In all the preceding severance language, the "days" referred to are eight (8) hour days
30
ARTICLE 17 SAFETY COMMITTEE
17.01	Both the Employer and the Union recognize their mutual obligations to assist in the prevention, correction and elimination of all unhealthy and unsafe working conditions and practice.
In support of this stated obligation, a Joint Health and Safety Committee, represented equally by Management and Union, will operate and meet on aregular basis, not less than once each three (3) months, during the life of this agreement. The purpose cf this committee will be to develop and recommend safe guidelines and procedure in an effort to eliminate accidents. Further, individual plant and maintenance committees will function in a like manner.
(a)	The worker member of the safety committees vail be elected
for a two (2) y ear period. The worker certified member will be elected for a three (3)y ear period.
17.02	Any employee identifying a safely' problem which needs attention should relate this concern directly to their immediate Supervisor, with the involvement cf Department Health and Safely' representatives,
An employ ee will not initiate a grievance regarding safely' unless he or she has been unable to resolve the issue by the above procedure.
17‘°3 .... . . . a) Company-specified safety footwear and eye protection is mandatory for all employees and must be worn at all times while on site. The Employer will provide
facilities for the replacement of this equipment. In the event an employee has special requirements, pre-approval will be necessary' for an external purchase and payment will be made upon receipt of an invoice.
In the case of footwear, the Employer will establish a supply arrangement
with at least two suppliers. Employees will return their used footwear to the supplier for assessment and will be provided with a replacement according to mutually agreed parameters.
(c)	All employees will be permitted to maintain a supply of two pairs of safety' footwear. All new employees v£ll be provided with two coupons entitling them to acquire two initial pairs of footwear without providing a replacement. Following use of the coupons, clause (b) will apply.
31
ARTICLE 18
EXPIRATION AND RENEWAL OF AGREEMENT
This Agreement will he in full force and effect from May ist, 2007 until April 30th, 2010 and thereafter from )ear to year until terminated or amended by either party as hereinafter provided. Not more than ninety' (90) days and not less than thirty (30) days prior to April 30th, 2010 or any subsequent anniversary' date, either party may notify in writing of its desire lo negotiate amendments. Negotiations with respect to the proposed amendments must commence nolater than thirty (30) days after the not ice cf such changes have been received.
IN WITNESS THEREOF, the parties mentioned hare executed this Agreement this 10th day of November. 2007-
FORTHE EMPLOYER:
UNILEVER CANADA INC.
FOR THE UNION: MILK DRIVERS DAIRY EMPLOYEES,
CATERERS AN DALLIED EMPLOYEES, LOCAL UNION 647
32
WAGE APPENDIX "A1
Wage
Base Wage increases as follows:
1styear * General Increase = 2,50%
2ndyear - LumpSum $1600-roll into RR5P if desired 3rd year - General increase = 2.50%
COLA payment of $2.25 rolled into wage rate - retroactive to Oct. 1,2007 (see attached wage schedule)
Shift Premium
There shall he a premium of ninety-five rents {$0.95) for all hours worked between 3:30pm and 11:30pm and a premium of one dollar and twenty!-five cents ($1.25) for all hours worked between 11:30pm and 7:30am of the following day.
Welding Premium
A "Welding Premium" of sixty cents ($0.60}s to be paid to fiveholden only of a current high-pressure welding certificate. The first four (4) will be from the Central Maintenance (Clause 7.02. Group III, Section "A). The fifth holder will he accepted by seniority! from either the Central or Packaging Maintenance departments.
General Mechanics
To have one of the following qualifications;
(1)	Certified Construction Millwright, or Industrial Maintenance Millwright,
(2)	A recognized indentured apprenticeship, which is defined as any certification the employee needs to satisfythe needs of the Employer.
Electronic Technicians
Employees hired or transferred after May I. 2004 are to have an Ontario certification as an electronic electrician.
Automatic Packaging Eouinment Mechanics________
T 0 have completed an apprenticeship in the trade of machine fitter, or bench fitter or Industrial Maintenance Millwright with demonstrated Packaging ability.
33
Tool Allowance
A *BiL Allowance" of four hundred twenty dollars ($420.00) to be paid effective May i*< of each year with no receipts and no banking.
Employees in the service of the Craft Group for less then twelve (12) months shall receive an allowance on a pro rata basis upon completion of their probationary period.
Over the Road Tank Truck Drivers * 1 2 3 4
* Provided trips are within a one hundred (100) mile radius of the Rexdale Plant. For trips which extend beyond a one hundred (100) mile radius of the Rexdale plant, the hourly rate shall be replaced by mileage at the rate of 44 cents pa mile effective May 01, 2000 and 45 cents per mile effective May 01, 2002. In no caseshall thereby any use of both ofthe above systems of pay but only one shall apply depending solely on mileage ratings from the Rexdale Plant. All work performed after finish of mileage run will be paid at time and one half (I & V2), if mileage run is in excess of eight (8) hours.
1.	Breakdown Time
Tank Driven while on mileage rate will be paid for breakdown time at straight hourly rates from time of breakdown until driver is accommodated or is on his or her way. After twelve (12) hours from the time driver is accommodated, he or she shall bepaiduptoa maximum of (10) hours in the first twenty-two (22) hour period from the time of accommodation. The same principal shall apply in each succeeding twenty-two (22) hour period. Such payment shall end when driver resumes his or her trip.
2.	Waiting Time
Tank drivers while on mileage rate will be paid for waiting time to load or unload in excess of one (l) hour at straight hourly rates. Waiting time to load or unload in excess of (8) hours will be paid at one and one-hidf (I & !A) times the straight hourly rate.
3.	Pumping Time
Tank drivers while on mileage rate will be paid for pumping time at destination up to a maximum of two (2) hours at straight hourly rates.
4.	The Employer wll re-imburse the drivers for any run requiring overnight accommodation up to $70.00, baed upon receipts submitted, for motel accommodation effective upon signing of contract.
34
Hourly Wages		Oct i, 2007	May 1,2008	May 1,2009
Group I - Packaging				
Classifications				
Packaging Technicia n		$32.28	s.32.28	$33.08
Milk Room Operator		S31.98	S31.98	$32.78
Machine Operator		S31.85	s.31.85	$32.64
Sanitation Operator		S31.85	831-85	$32.64
Hot Box (Alma Press)		831.8s	SJi.85.	$32.64
Scrubber/Janitor		S31.8S	S.31.85	S.32.64
				
Group II - Material Handling				
Classifications				
Shipper/Receiver		831-85	S31.85	$.32.64
Distribution Operator		831-85	831-85	$.32.64
Truck Driver		831-85	S31.85	$32.64
				
Group III - Maintenance				
Classifications				
(A) Central				
Mechanic		834-34	834-34		$35.20
Electronic Technician		83434	s,34-34	$3520
(B) Packaging				
Automatic Packaging Equipment Mechanic		83434	834-34	$35-20
(C) General Lubricator		83434	S34-34	$3.5.20
				
Group IV - Refinery				
Classifications				
Refinery Operator		S32.10	$32-10	$32.91
Unloading/Acidulation Opr.		$32.10	$32.10	$32.91
General Help		$3133	S31.33	$32.12
				
Group V - Laboratory				
Classifications				
ChiefTechnician		S32.02	$32.02	$32.82
Skilled Technician		_*3!-24		.S3!-54		S32.74
35
November, 2007
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
RE: BBS Facilitator
As the site continues to drive its safety performance the Behaviour Based Safety (BBS) process will become a significant tool in order to achieve a zero accident culture. Therefore this role has been created in order for a member cf the Union to facilitate the implementation of the BBS process.
Roles and Responsibilities:
•	Coordinating meetings of the BBS steering committee and serving as the chair of committee.
•	Encourage follow-through by committee members on their responsibilities and tasks that have been assigned to them.
•	Giving informational presentations to employee groups
•	An ambassador for the BBS program through formal and informal contact with employees.
•	Presenting training sessions,
•	Using specific software to enter Safety observation data and generatereports to post on site and departmental activity boards.
•	Facilitate problem-solving and action-planning meetings using observation data for safety improvement.
•	Serving as a liaison with Management and meeting with the site sponsor and Barrier Removal Team for progress and status reviews.
•	Serving as a liaison with BST. Providing minutes and other materials to the consultant and coordinating BST consultant visits and training events.
•	Serving as a liaison with outside groups and providing information about Rexdale’s observation program to employees with other Unilever and nonUnilever companies.
•	Support other SHE activities (investigations and projects) using the tools and learnings from the BBS process.
Effective ratification of this collective agreement there will he the creation of a BBS facilitator classification. This will be a “B” shift position and will involve working with employees form other shifts.
Interested candidates need to possess a working background and knowledge of plant/equipment produdion. processing methods and procedures witha commitment to Safety improvement. Strong interpersonal, communication, computer literacy and problem solving skills will also be required. The candidate vail need to demonstrate the ability to work with employees (hourly and salaried) in all departments on site. This role vail require some travel to attend workshops, conferences and to network in other Unilever and non Unilever community of practice activities.
36
The normal job posting procedure applies however the successful bidder will a have an informational interview with members of the Site leadership and SHE team.
This position has a minimum one (I) year commitment.
Ackffowtedge fort]
Stan Reid Plant Manager
Acknowledge for the Umon: Martin Cerqua Business Agent
37
June, 2004
RE: TPM Activities
As an integral component of our TPM initiatives, management employees are required to undertake Autonomous Maintenance activities on a selected 'pilot" line within the Packaging Plant.
These activities will be confined to the one (1) pilot line as selected by the Steering Committee. Activities will not involve actual operation of the line for production purposes.
The purpose of these activities is to facilitate practical learning and understanding ofTPM principles as well as barriers to TPM implementation for the Management team. This practice is consistent with fundamental TPM philosophies to reinforce theoretical principles with practical experience.
Activities will be focused on AM. Steps 1 to 3. They will begin on the first month following ratification and will finish upon the completion of Step3, 9 months from the starting date.
Stq?3 includes operators performing tentative standards for cleaning, inspection and minor lubrication.
Major lubrication activities remain the responsibility oftheMaintenanee Department.
At notime will the presence of management employeesin these activities result in a
y employees.
Stan Reid Plant Manager
Martin Cerqua Business Agent
38
June4.2004
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
RE: D Shift Guidelines
GENERAL
Employees working D shift will not he advantaged or disadvantaged in regards to benefits. Monetary references are subject to change as per the current Collective Agreement
BENEFITS
As per collective agreement.
SHIFT IMPLEMENTATION/ DISCONTINUANCE
At the start-up of a D shift, employees Wll work the regular work week leading into the first D shift weekend and have the following week (M - F) off. At the end of a D shift, employ ees will have the week off following the last D shift.
JOB FITTING
To crew the D-Sbift, volunteers from the relevant Craft Group(s) and Classification(s) will be selected based on seniority. If there are insufficient volunteers, junior employees will be assigned to the shift. Certain qualifications may he required (ie: qualified as tow-motor or walkie operators). Training to be provided as required.
ROTATTNGD SHIFT (Refinevl
Employees who volunteer to work on a rotating D shift are committed to that work cycle and can only leave D shift by bidding out to another Job Classification.
STEADY D SHIFT (Packaging & Skvlabf
Employees who volunteer to work on a steady D shift are committed to the shift schedule for one year or for the duration of the requirement. If the Employer continues D shift beyond one year, posting for volunteers will occur annually.
39
COLA
Each 24 hours worked on the D shift will be deemed to be equal to 40 hours for the purposes of calculating COL4 as per the following formula: eg. $2.25 X 20 / 12 hrs. X hrs. worked.
VACATION
Pay will be calculated as per the collective agreement. For the purposes of calculating vacation time, one D shift (plus 5 days following) will equal one week ofvacation. A full D shift is Considered 40 hours of vacation therefore employees are ineligible to work overtime during the Monday through Friday following.
A Saturday is considered 16 hours of vacation therefore employees are ineligible to work overtime during the Monday and Tuesday following.
A Sunday is considered 24 hours ofvacation therefore employees are ineligible to work overtime during the Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday following.
.OVERTIME
Will be available to all qualified employees when absence occurs. Existing departmental overtime rules apply as per Collective Agreement. D shift packaging employees are considered B shift employees and shall cover C shift overtime. The maximum amount of overtime allowable is 22.5 per week as per internal overtime guidelines.
STATUTORY HOLIDAYS
Statutory Holiday pay will be paid as usual. An additional day off will not be given in lieu unless the employee works on the statutory holiday.
DAYLIGHTSAVING STIME
Time changes will not be acknowledged during the 48 hour D-Shi ft weekend.
BEREAVEMENT
D Shift Saturday and Sunday equals 2 days from 5 day entitlement for immediate family.
40
SHORT TERM DISABILITY BENEFITS
Existing benefit provision remains in place with the following principle: No employee shall receive less short term benefits than provided for in a "regular week" scenario.
Pursuant to that principle, the Employer shall compensate an employeeon the D-shift for hours lost over and above the waiting period (normally 3 working days) which are not covered by the disability plan insurer. Such compensation by the Employer ("Company Disability Compensation") shall be at the same rate as that provided under the Short Term Disability Plan ($700 maximum based on a 7 day flat rate plan) and shall apply until the insurance benefits apply, but only to a maximum of the normal benefits which an employee would receive for the loss of 24 straight-time hours. Such Company Disability Compensation is payable only upon receipt of a fully completed claim form and shall be subject to the employee being otherwise eligiblefor disability benefits.
Stan Reid PlantManager
41
June, 2004
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
Re: Clarification of Work Responsibilities Operating Engineers
The Plant Services Manager has total responsibility for Building Services sitewide for which purposes he will utilize skilled tradesmen from the I.O.U.E, Local 772, Teamster Lccal 647, and contractors.
Operating Engineers are designated to provide a service function to all areas of
the site and are specifically responsible for the following duties, to monitor,
maintain and service:
•	all steam, water. condensate and air lines up to and including isolation valves offthe mains in the Packaging Plant Building
•	utility m eter s (si t e-wi d e)
•	all am m 0 ni a e quipm ent, piping an d ins trum entati on. Toisolate NED from equipment.
•	steam heating equipment and connecting lines located in the Packaging Plant Building
•	all spri nkler equipm ent and sy s tem s sit e- wide
•	all hot-water tracing equipment and piping in the oil room
•	oil room hot water tank and controls
•	all chilled water equipment and piping
•	buildings and services including sewers, and washrooms for Packaging Plant
•	all steam boilers site-wide and associated equipment
•	air compressors, associated equipment and pipelines in the boiler room, and mainline air receivers site-wide
all air handling and air conditioning units installed site-wide all gas fired heaters and piping site-wide
all building supply and exhaust fans site-wide (exception process in refineries)
42
•	Packaging Plant utility loops originating in Boiler Room, up to and including isolation valves
•	m aintain cooling tow er chemi cal tre atm ent s y s tern s site-wi de
•	inspection and maintenance of all emergency response equipment.
•	perimeter fence gates and Packaging Plant Roll up doors
Under any emergency situation, the Plant Services Manager is expected to usehis bestjudgement in selecting personnel to secure the Plant and Services.
The above guideline is subject to review and updating at anytime by all parties. Final changes are subject to Management acceptance.
Stan Reid
Acknowledge for thqUnion: lv&±inCerqua
Business Agent
43
November 6, 2007
Re: Maintenance Training
In order to promote the de\e)opmenl and upgrading of the trades group, it is the intent of the Employer to prmide training opportunities, both technical and experiential during the term of this collective agreement.
The training opportunities will be discussed and agreed with the department
management, department steward and chief steward prior to implementation and the numbers of trades allowed to participate vaU be entirely dependent on the naafe of the business. Opportunities will be offered in order of seniority' within the appropriate trade.
Stan Reid
Acknowledge for th^TJnion:
Martin Cerqua Business Agent
44
June, 2004
Re: Contract Work
Each Department Manager and respective Steward(s) will meet as required to inform theSteward(s) of contract work required within that Department, as per Article 15.01
It is the intention of the Company to utilize internal trade resources for maintenance and repair of all core operations.
The criteria for employment of external resources will he:
1.	Urgent and no resources available
2.	Non-mident skills and competencies
3.	Expediting of backlogged work requests where internal resources are unavailable
For any scheduled external resources the Company will provide information to the Chief Steward prior to initiation of the work.
For urgent requirements information will be provided to the ChiefSteward, or designate, as soon as practically possible.
Stan Reid
hfertanCerqua
Business Agent
45
NOTICE
August 12,1992
PACKAGING PLANT OVERTIME
The following procedure for obtaining overtime in the Packaging Plant has been agreed between the Employer and the Union after study by an Overtime Committee.
Overtime is a most sensitive subject and all parties involved in these discussions acknowledged that there is no system that will he considered best by everyone.
It is most important however that we do adopt a system and it is every'one's interest to make this system work.
In order that you can be easily contacted for overtime, please ensure your
current phone number is registered with Packaging Plant Supervision,
There is no change in the system to be adopted for packers except that sample checkers (when applicable) will be placed on the bottom of the packers rota and receive priority for the overtime in their classification.
The agreed system is then as follows:
1.	Vacation positions are first filled by any spare trained persons before an
overtime list is consulted
2.	Overtime lists are formed as follows:
Personnel are listed by classification and shift When overtime is offered, the appropriate hours are listed against the person's name. New employees are inserted in their place of seniority' and new or transferred employees will be charged with the average hours of the list lo which they are transferred. (New employees are those who have recently started with the Employer and successfully completed probation.)
3.	An acceptance, refusal, or failure to contact is counted equally. Persons
unavailable due to sickness, leave of absence, compensation. absence, other business or vacation will, be counted as if overtime had been offered to them. Overtime Will be charged according to number of hours offered. The only exception being Union steward(s) attending negotiations will not be charged overtime hours.
46
4.	Persons in training for skilled positions will be eligible for overtime as their training progresses to a level of competency for each individual work station. Probationary employees will be eligible for overtime only when all others in their craft group have refused.
5.	Overtime is first offered to the people in whose classification the overtime exists.
Example:
"B" Shift overtime is first offered to classified "A" Shift then classified “C" Shift.
"A" Shift overtime is first offered to classified "C" Shift then classified "B" Shift.
'C' Shift overtime is first offered to classified "B" Shift then classified " A Shift.
6.	Once the list of classified persons has been exhausted as above, then
qualified persons are offered the overtime. In this case, overtime will be offered by going to the person with lowest hours in Craft Group I.
7.	Overtime hours worked or offered will be charged at the overtime
premium rate.
8.	On a weekly basis, a copy of the overtime sheets will be publicly posted
9.	Each week the overtime lists are redrawn with the person with lowest
hours at the top. The hours are returned to zero annually,
10.	Overtime on Saturday "B" and "C Shifts and Sunday "A", "B" and "C"
Shifts will be offered to persons in whose classification the overtime occurs The person with lowest hours to get choice of shift.
11.	Employees who are awarded make up overtime, due to an
administrative error, will be allowed three weeks from date of settlement to work this overtime.
47
12. Overtime will be offered in eight hour blocks. Should an employee who
is offered eight hours prefer to work four hours, he/she will indicate this to their Supervisor when asked The Supervisor will then go to a phone list which has been established indicating those employees who are willing to work the second half of the shift. If no one is willing to work the second half of the shift the Supenisorwiii continue to offer eight hours to other employees. Only employees who signed a list indicating they wished to be phoned at home for overtime will be contacted.
13.	Star-up overtime is exempt from these procedures hut overtime hours
worked will be charged.
14.	An employee transferred from one shift to another, will carry-over their
existing overtime hours, to their new shift, should no other employees exist within their job classification on the new shift.
In witness of the parties, hereto mentioned this Agreement has been agreed
Stan Reid
bk±in Cerqua Business Agent
48
WELFARE PLAN SUMMARY
49
Unilever Canada Inc.
All of the Welfare Plan Benefits stipulated in this Collective Agreement ae provided through The Milk Driven and Dairy Employees Local 647 Welfare TiLBt Fund. This Fund is managed by fourTrustees representing Employers contributing to the Fund under this and other Collective Agreements, and four Trustees appointed by Local Union 647. The Trustees hold Contracts of Insurance that specify the Benefits contained in this Collective Agreement, as well as others, and determine Standard Rules of Eligibility and Termination.
The following summary of your Benefits will provide you all of the information you need to determine who is covered by the Plan, when you become covered and terminated and the Benefits under this particular Collective Agree men t. Since the Benefits are provided through Insurance Contracts, in the event of a dispute the Provisions of the Insurance Contracts will prevail.
GENERAL PROVISIONS
Eligibility
Employees who are members in good standing of Local Unionfi47 together with their spouse, unmarried dependent children under Age 21 and unmarried dependent children to age 23 in full time attendance at an institute of higher leaming,are eligible for benefits.
Effective Date of Benefits
All employees are required to complete an Application Card, recording necessary information about the employee and his or her dependents. This Card is available from the Employer. Local Union 647 or the Administrator. New employees are covered by the Plan on the first day of the calendar month following the fhdt week forwhichthe Employer makes contribution to theTrust Fund. Employees hired or rehired by the Employer are covered from the date of employment or reemployment if they were covered by the Plan at any time during the sixty days prior to such employment or re-employment. Employees covered by the Plan who axe rehired by the Employer in accordance with the lay-off/recall provisions of this Collective Agreement, will again be covered by the Plan on the date of reemployment.
50
Dependents of eligible employees are covered on the date the employee is covered, or the date they become dependents, whichever is later. If the employee is disabled on his or her effective date, all benefits are postponed until the date of return to fiJl time employment. If the employee is covered by the Plan, and disabled on the effective date of an improvement or new Benefit, the employee and dependents main covered by the old Plan until the employee returns to fulltime employment.
Your completed Application Card should be submitted to your Employer, who is required to submit that completed Cad with the first Monthly Contribution Report on which the employe's name is recorded.
Termination Date of Benefits
~ If employment terminates for any reason other than retirement, all benefits except Disability Income cease at the end of the month in which employment terminated Disability Income Benefits cease on the last date employed. As noted later in this Summary, certain Benefits are continued for Retired Members.
Benefits for Active Employees and Retired Employees cease in the event that the Employer ceases contributions to the Trust Fund. The date of termination of such benefits will be determined in accordance with the date such contributions cease.
Retired Members' Benefits
~ Upon retirement, members with at least five continuous years' coverage immediately preceding retirement are covered by $4,000 Life Insurance for the first twelve calendar months following the month in which retirement commenced and $2,000 Life Insurance thereafter.
Effective September 1, 1992 employees who arc 55 or more and have age plus service of 80 y ears or more who elect to take early retirement wll have Prescription Drug Plan, Vision Care and Dental Plan coverage until age 65.
Continuation of Benefits During Disability
— Employees who become disabled, and in receipt of a benefit from the STD Plan, will remain covered by the Benefits provided them at the onset of disability while so disabled, up to the Maximum Benefit Period of the STD Program described herein. If the disability is compensable by WSIB, 'then the benefits described herein will be continued for 18 months or cessation of WSIB Benefits, whichever is earlier.
51
BENEFITS
Life Insurance (Employee Only)
“ The benefit is provided by a Group Term Life Insurance Policy, which provides that premium payments are waived, and the benefit at the onset of disability remains in force, up to Age 65, in the event of total and permanent disability occurring while insured and before Ac/e 65. Waiver of Premium is provided for all employees on LT D. under “own occupation" or "any occupation" conditions. At age 65, the Life Insurance Benefit for Retired Employees becomes effective if the disabled employee has fulfilled the fivep ar coverage requirement.
Employees who terminate employment may convert lo an individual Life Insurance Policy, without evidence of good health, by making written application to the Insurer within 31 days of the date employment terminates.
Effective September 1,1992 the Amount of Life Insurance will be $35,000.
Accidental Death and Dismemberment (Employee Only)
— This benefit provides the payment of a principal Sum,or part thereof, for losses that occur within 365 days of a causative accident. In the case of life, the benefit is payable to the employee's named beneficiary under the Life Insurance Benefit; for other losses,the benefit is payable to the employee.
TABLE OF BENEFITS
For loss of:
Amount
Life (in addition to the Lift Insurance)................................Principal Sum
Both E/es...............................................................Principal Sum
Both Hands..............................................................principal Sum
Both l ed......... .	..............................Principal Sum
(>ne II ami ami (>tie l oot............... .............................PnncipalSum
» tie llaml and Sight of One Eye........................................Principal Sum
( *ne loot and Sight of One Kye	■	.	.	.......Principal Sum
Otic Leg.............................................................3/4 principal Sum
» ucArm..............................................................3/4 Principal Sum
(hicHand........................................................... 1/2	Principal Sum
Sight of One Eye.....................................................1/2 Principal Sum
BoththeThumh and Index htigerofOnciLmd..............................1/4	Principal Sum
52
The Principal Sum is the maximum payable for all losses due to any one accident. No benefits are payable for losses due to intentionally self-inflictedinjuries, suicide, declared or undeclared war, full time service in the armed forces, or while a crew member in any aircraft.
Effective September l, 1992 the Principal Sum will be $35,000.
Short Term Disability (STD)—
Non-Occupational Disability Only (Employee Only)
Unilever Canada provides disability benefits to ensure that some or all of your income continues during sustained periods of non-work related illness or accidental injury. The Unilever STD benefits under the Collective Agreement, are designed to help you when your time away from work due to illness or accidental injury lasts twenty-six f.26jweeks or Ins. After twenty-six (26)weeks,Long-Term Disability (LTD) benefits are available through a third party insurer.
Commencing on the second day of absence disability due to an accident, the Plan pays a Weekly Benefit as per the schedule below. Under the terms of the ShortTerm Disability Plan, you are "disabled if you are unable to perform the essential duties of your own occupation or other suitable work within the company due to a medically verifiable illness or injury.
You must apply for STD Benefits for any absence greater than two (2) consecutive business days.
A Statement of Impairment (SOI) for absences beyond two (2) consecutive business days must be received by the Disability Man age ment Service Provider within ten (10) business days of the first day of absence.
Your HR Representative will arrange for you to receive the STD Benefits Package.
The Disability Management Service Provider has responsibility for the assessment of whether or not the definition of disability is met based on information provided to them by Unilever Canada, you and your phys i cian/denti st/cl i n i cal p sychologist.
To be considered for Short Term Disability, a Statement of Impairment (SOI) within ten (10) business days of the first day of absence, signed by a licensed physician/dentist/clinical psychologist, must be submitted to the Disability Management Service Provider. Unilever Canada must receive confirmation of the fulfillment or non-fulfillment of the definition of disability from the Disability Management Service Provider. Failure to provide medical verification upon request may result in the discontinuation of benefit payments.
53
You wifl be entitled tu receive up to twenty-six (26) weeks of STD benefits for periods of absence due tu the same or related illness or injury If a reoccuranee occurs for the same or related illness or injury, and is separated by twa (2) consecutive weeks or less of returning to work at full time regular duties, the calculation ofyour benefit for the successive disability will be determined according to the benefit remaining as per the schedule from the initial disability.
Benefits are not payable unless the disabled employee is losing wages on account of the disability. Therefore, barefits are nut payable fur periods cf time during which there are no lost wages, such as Vacation. Leave of Absence, etc.
WEEKLY BENEFIT
Years of Service	Paid at 100%	Weeks Paid at 70%
Less than 1	1	25
1	2	24
2	4	22
3	6	20
4	8	18
5	10	16
6	12	14
7	14	12
8	16	10
9	18	8
10 or more	26	0
MAXIMUM BENEFIT PERIOD 26 weeks
Semi-Private Hospital Benefit
(Employees and Dependents)
“ The Plan pays the hospital's daily charge for the difference in cost between a semi-private room and standard ward.
Ambulance Benefit f Employees and Dependents)
“ For necessary ground ambulance service, to or from a hospital, the Plan pays $40 for each period of Disability (as defined under the Disability Income Plan). This amount is applicable to the deductible amount of OHIP's Ambulance Benefit, and does nut duplicate in any way the OHIP Ambulance Benefit.
54
special Accident Benefit (Employee and Dependents)
~	The plan allows up to $300 for certain services or supplies receivedwithin
three months of a causative accident that is not covered by Workers' Compensation.
ELIGIBLE EXPENSES
1.	H ospital charg es resulting fro m confinem ent.
2.	Medical or surgical treatm ent cf supplies.
3.	Diagnosticservices.
4.	S ervices 0 f a registered nurse.
5.	D ental x-ray. orexa mi nation.
Long Term Disability Income Benefit (Employee Only)
~ Effective with disabilities commencing on or after August l. 1082. a Monthly Income Benefit will be paid to employees who are totally disabled commencing with the exhaustion of the Short Term Disability Income Benefit provided herein. The employee will be regarded as "totally disabled" when the nature and degree of the disability is such that the employee cannot perform each and every duty of any occupation for which he or she is reasonably suited having regard for education. training and experience. Effective with disabilities comm encing on or after July l, 1996, the employee will be regarded as "totally disabled" during the first 24 months of such disability when the nature and degree of the disability is such that the employee cannot perform the regular duties of his or her own occupation. Tlie Benefit is payable as long as the employee is "totally disabled," and ceases upon the earliest of death. recovery or attainment of Age 65. Benefits are not payable for any disability resulting from intentionally self-inflicted injuries, while sane or insane; riots, insurrections or any act of war, or the commission of, or an attempt to commit, any criminal act.
If the disabled employee is in receipt of a benefit under the Workers' Compensation Ad, on account of the same disability, the Monthly Income Benefit otherwise pay able under this Plan will be reduced, dollar for dollar, by any amounts payable under the Ad.
If a disabled employee is in the "grey" area between total disability and total recovery, and attempts some form of "light work" under the supervision of a physician, the LT.D. Benefit will be reduced by 66.6% of income derived from such rehabilitative employment forup to two years of such employment. If the employee cannot continue the employment for health reasons, he/she goes back on full LT.D. Benefits;if still so employed after two years, the LT.D. Benefit ceases since he/she is no longer regarded as "totally disabled"
55
Prescription Drug coverage will be offered to employees who are approved for LTD and the Company will pay 50% ofthe cost of prescription Drug coverage. It will be optional for employees to selector refuse this coverage at the time they are accepted onto LTD
The Monthly Income Benefit payable is determined by the Insurer's Premium for this benefit, in comparison with the Employer's contribution for the benefit. Effective with disabilities commencing on or after (2 year-own occupation) May i,2007: $2,400
Dental Care. Plan No. 0 (Employee and Dependents)
~ The Plan became effectiveAugust ], 1982 and covers the following dentists service:
1.	Oral examinations, once every6 month
2.	Prophylaxis (denning and scaling cf teeth) once every 6 months. This treatment is eligible if performed by a Dentist, or a Dental Hygienist under the direct supervision of a Dentist.
3.	Bite-wing x-rays, once every'6 months.
Topical application of anti-cariogenic agent, once every' 6 months. This treatment is eligible if performed by a Dentist, or a Dental Hygienist under the direct supervisionof a Dentist.
5.	Full mouth series of x-rays, once every' 24 months.
6.	Extractions and simple aiveolectomy at a time of tooth extraction.
7.	Surgicalextraction ofimpacted teeth.
8.	Surgical removal of tumors, cysts, neoplasms, plus the incision and drainage of an abscess.
9.	Amalgam, silicate, acrylic, and composite fillings.
10.	Provision and spare maintainors for missing primary' teeth and provision of habit breaking appliances.
11.	Diagnostic x-ray and laboratory' procedures required in relation lo dental surgery'.
12.	General anesthetic required in relation to dental surgery'.
13.	Consultation required by the attending Dentist.
14.	Endodontics and periodontia.
15.	Relining,rebasing, repair and adjustment of existing dentures.
16.	Effective September 1, 1988, partial or full dentures, limited to one claim per person per three year period.
17.	50% ofthe cost of major procedures (inlays, onlays, crowns, caps and bridges) to an annual maximum of $2000.
56
EXCLUSIONS:
If the service a nses from any of the following events, no benefit i payable:
a)	Intentional self-inflictedi njlines or illness while sane or self-inflicted injuries while insane.
b)	Any service for which the insured person is entitled to indemnity of compensation under any Workers'Compensation Act
c)	Cosmetic surgery or treatment (when so classified by the Insurer) unless such surgery or treatment is for accidental injuries and commenced within 90 days of an accident.
d)	Services payable under any government plan of insurance, or insurable only under any government plan of insurance.
e)	Injury resulting from insurrection, war, services in the Armed Forces of any country or participation in a not.
BASIS OF PAYMENT:
The basis of payment for services and supplies will be based on the ODA schedule of the previous year (a one-year lag), effectiveJanuary 1 of each year.
Drug Plan (Employee and Dependents]
The Plan pays the amount charged by a pharmacist, dentist, physician or hospital for prescribed drugs, prescribed preventative drugs, prescribed vitamins, medicines, sera, injectibles, insulin and diabetic supplies. Patent medicines, and expenses covered by any other agency are not covered.
Visioncare Plan (Employee and Dependents)
~	Effective with prescriptions filled on and after July 1,1996 the Plan will pay
the amount charged by a Dispensing Optician or Optometrist forcorrective lenses and frames prescribed by an Ophthalmologist or Optometrist, up to threemaximums:
Single Lenses: $320 Bifocal Lenses: $320 Trifocal Loises: $360
Only one claim is allowed per insured person per 24 consecutive months, except in the case of children requiring a more frequent change in lenses due to progressive myopia, hyperopia or astigmatism. In this case, and provided there is a change in prescribed lenses, the above maximums apply each 12 consecutive months.
The plan will pay 50% of the cost of an eye exam per insured person only once every 2 years
57
Contact Lenses
The above limits may be applied to contact lenses also, however, in addition, contact lenses may be covered under the Special Contact Lens Benefit which is subject to a lifetime maximum of $300,
Exclusions
The Plan will nut pay for sunglasses, special tints, frame ornamentation or personification, or make any special allowances if your glasses or contact lenses are lost, stolen or broken.
Major Medical PlanfEmplovee and Dependents)
EffectiveJuly 1,1986, this plan provides the following benefits:
DEDUCTIBLE -
There is no deductible
COINSURANCE
The Plan will pay 100% of the reasonable and customary charges incurred for Eligible Expenses
MAXIMUM BENEFIT -
The maximum amount payable on account of any Insured Person (Employee or Dependent) is $30,000 in any consecutive thirty-six month period. In the event that any person incurs Eligible Expenses of at least $1,000 the employee may make application to the Insurer (through the Administrator) to have the $30,000 Maximum Benefit reinstated
ELIGIBLE EXPENSES -
m e following expenses are coved, on the express understanding that they are prescribed—that is, recommended-by the attending physician
1.	Charges for the services of a Registered Nurse (R.N.) or Registered Nursing Assistant (R.NA) at the insured individual's residence, provided the R N or R.NA is not normally resident in the insured person'shonie, or m a publicgeneral hospital.
2.	Charges fur hospital services and supplies obtained from an outpatient department of a licensed hospital or surgical supply company while not confined in a hospital
58
3.	Ambulance:	charges for licensed ambulance service or other
emergency service (including fare of an attendant where necessary') when used to transport the insured person from the place where bodily injury or disease is suffered to the nearest hospital where adequate treatment can be rendered or from one hospital to another or frcmhospital to the insured person's residence
4.	Services and Supplies:	charges for the following services and
supplies:
a)	purchase of braces, clutches, surgical stockings, artificial limbs and eyes and prosthetic devices approved by the Insurance Company including surgical brassieres and breast prostheses required following a mastectomy
b)	rental of or, at the Insurance Company's option, the purchase of a wheelchair, hospital-type bed, iron-lung, or other durable equipment fortemporary therapeutic use.
c)	oxygenand blood serum
d)	orthopedic shoes prescribed by a podiatrist or physician upto a maximum of one pair per calendaryear.
5.	Emergency Treatment: charges for the following emergency
treatment required by an insured person who is temporarily outside of their Province or Territory of residence:
a)	room and hoard in a licensed hospital upto ward level foreach day that the person is confined in hospital
b)	hospital services and supplies furnished by a licensed hospital
c)	diagnosis and treatment by a physician or surgeon.
6.	Diagnostic X-Ray and Laboratory Expenses: charges for diagnostic tests and radiological treatments including x-rays and laboratory' tests and radium treatments
7.	Physiotherapy: charges for the services of a qualified Physiotherapist, who is not normally resident in the insured person's home.
8.	Speech Therapy: charges for the sendees of a qualified Speech Therapist, upto a maximum payment of $2(X) per calendaryear for each person.
59
g.	Hearing Aids: charges for hearing aids prescribed by a legal?, licensed
Otolaryngologist, up to a maximum payment of $400 for one instrument per insured persons in any four consecutive years.
10. Paramedical Services to a Maximum calendar year benefit of $1000 for each person Individual category limit of $400 dollars for the following categories: Chiropractor, Homeopath. Chiropodist, Massage Therapist (RMT registered) and Acupuncturist services. Other paramedical services are paid up to maximum of $275 per service but cannot exceed a total of $1000 fur the entire group of services for each person
LIMITS AND EXCLUSIONS -
No benefit will be paid if legislation prevents such payment. Benefits will be reduced by amounts paid, or payable, by government plans such as OHIP.	'	'
Howto Claim Benefits
All claims, except those under the Drug Plan, are to be submitted on the proper form, along with appropriate bills or receipts, to the Administrator:
Employee Benefit Plan Services 45 McIntosh Drive Markham, ON L3R 8C7
General Inquiry: (905) 946-9700
Toll Free Number (within Ontario) 1-800-263-3564
Effective August 1, 2004, claims under the Drug Plan are to be submitted to the Plant Human Resources Office in sealed envelopes, which wiD be provided by Hu man Resources.
Dental Claim Forms are usually stocked by the Dentist.
Claim Forms forSTD must be sent to the Disability Management Sendee Provider directly ria fax to 416.362.2295 or 1.866.629.7894 or via mail to the following address:
CBM L Claims
PO Box 87
260 Adelaide Street East Toronto. Ontario M5A1N1
60
Claim Forms can be obtained through your Human Resources Office or the Disability Management Service Provider. The plan does notcoverany fees that may be charged by a physician for completion of this form.
If you are making a claim under the Visioncare Plan, please be sue to enclose the bill or receipt from the Dispensing Optician or Optometrist. This bill or receipt must show comprehensive information in terms of what has been dispeased, and particularly include information regarding the change m lenses if the claim is being made for the annual change in children's glasses.
Submission of Claims
“ To be considered for Short Term Disability', a Statement of Impairment (SOI) within ten (JO) business days of the first day of absence, signed by a licensed physician/dentist/dinical psychologist, must besubmitted to the Disability' Management Service Provider. Unilever Canada must receive confirmation of the fulfillment or non-fulfillment of the definition of disability from the Disability Management Service Provider.
Disclaimer
—	It is expressly understood and agreed that the information appearing above
is a summary' only, and that the eligibility' of any person or claim will be governed by the terms of the Insurance Contracts through which the Benefits are provided.
Rate ofWeeklv Employer Contribution
~ Hie Employer will pay the cost of all benefits described herein, unless within the Collective Agreement a specified amount of Employer Contribution is noted.
Administration
Hie Employer agrees that the benefits provided here will be provided through the Milk Drivers and Daily Employees Local 647 Welfare Trust Fund, except for the STD plan which provided directly by the Company, and that the required Weekly Contributions will be forwarded not later than the 15th of the month following the month for which the Report is submitted.
61
Contributions will be by cheque made payable to "The Milk Driven Local 647 Welfare Fund” and forwarded along with the Report to the
Administrator,
Employee Benefit Plan Services 45 McIntosh Drive Markham, ON L3R8C7
62
Craft Group I - Packaging
Seniority	Craft Group	Last Name	First Name	Job Class
2J-Nov 66	1	Whyte	Eileen	M/Op
03-Jan-68	J	Powers	Mike	HB/Op
17-Oct-68	1	Waslyk	Donna	M/Op
i8-Jan-7i	1	Reid	Mike	OM/Op
23-Sep-7l	I	Cerny	Ruzena	M/Op
27-Sep-71	1	Sutherland	Barbara	M/Op
lO-Aug-72	I	Genova	Eleanor	M/Op
07-Feb-73	I	Mooken	Mary	M/Od
22-Oct-73	I	Alvarez	Irian	M/Op
27-Mar-74	I	Tong	Victor	HB/OP
29-Oct-74	I	DiCaro	Carmel a	M/Op
05-N0V-74	1	Heron	Bev	M/Op
07-N0V-74	i	Note	Erminia	M/Op
06-Jan-75	1	Gutierrez	Victor	M/Op
03-Mar-75	1	Muscat	Tonv	OM/Op
to-Mar-75	1	Dval	Mike	HB/Op
12-May-75	1	Park	Jong	OM/Op
12-M ay-75	1	Galea	Tony	WA/Op
02-Sep-75	i	Govereau	Terry	M/Op
2!-Jun-76	1	Leonardo	Leo	M/Op
IS-Nov-76	1	Tong	Tyrone	M/Op
3 O-May-78	1	Veira	Ron	M/Op
06-Jun-?8	!	Reesal	Pnoran	M/OP
08-Sep-97	I	Braini	Joe	PAK-TECH
io-sep-97	I	Stennett	Peggy	M/Op
lO-Sep-97	t	Kwamie	Edith	M/Op
io-Sep-97	I	Hnfer	Joe	OM/Op
23-Sep-97	1	Carreon	George	WA/Op
23-Sep-97	1	Banks	Mike	M/Op
26-Jan-98	I	Rose	Berkley	M/Op
i6-Mar-98	1	Rahold	Ed	PAK-TECH
20-Nov-oo	1	Stephenson	Paul	M/Op
29-Jan-oi	1	Caines	Kim	PAK-TECH
05-Mar-oi	1	Hemming	Alison	PAK-TECH
27-Aug-oi	1	Dzeletovic	Miroslav	PAK-TECH
o6-May-02	1	Campbell	Bill	WA/Op
09-Sep-02	1	Cass i ho	MJ	M/Op
63
23*Sep-02	1	Koossa	Ibrahim	M/Op
15-Oct-02	I	Dhuga	Steve	M/Op
20-Oct-03	1	Collins	Shane	M/Op
20-Oct-03	1	Sharp	Debbie	M/Op
24-N0V-03	l	Agustm	Joaquin	M/Op
24-Nov-OS	1	OMestuk	Boris	M/Op
24-N0V-03	1	Punonghavan	Flora nte	M/Op
26-Jan-04	1	Basa	Lorenzo	M/Op
i6-Feb-04	I	Tuason	Revno	OM/Op
oi-Mar-04	1	Gueta	Rev	M/Op
oi-Mar-04	1	Martinez	Almira	M/Op
oi-Mar-04	I	Santos	Noel	M/Op
l8-Apr-05	1	Bint	1.Villi	OM/Op
j 8-Apr-05	1	Raznatovic	Tom	M/Op
20-Jun-os	1	Patel	Jignesh	M/Op
06-0ct-05	1	Castro	Jose	M/Op
05-Dec-0S	1	Anandjil	Netanuiul	M/Op
17-Apr-o6	1	Mlauzi	Owen	M/Op
l7-Apr-o6	1	Vanwynsburnbe	Stephanie	M/Op
!7-May-o6	1	Devereaux	Mike	M/Op
!2-Jun-o6	1	Huffman	Kevin	M/Op
i3-Jun-o6	1	Kellar	Rick	M/Op
!4-Aur-o6	1	Adlev	Mark	M/Op
14-Aus>-06	!	Kular	Chris	M/Op
05-Sep-o6 | 1		Mcliwen	Frank	M/Op
Craft GroupII - Material Handling
64
Craft Croup III - Maintenance
Seniority	Craft Group	UstName	First Name	Job Class V
13-Feb-68	III	Bticklev	Ron	Mech
04-Nov-74	III	Swan	William	Mech
l5-May-78	HI	Smith	Mike	Mech
27-Oct-8o	111	Jones	Keith	Mech
io-Dec-84	HI	Tanner	Dave	Mech
11-Oct-88	ill	Elliott	Phil	Mech
09-Jan-89	III	Deichsel	Richard	Mech
27-Feb-89	111	Castellano	Nestor	Mech
04-Feb-g l	III	Wilson	Lon	SP/Mech
24-N0V-97	111	Skinner	Steve	Mech
27-Apr-98	111	Zilberman	Anatoly	Mech
14-Aug-OO	III	Ganpat	•lanak	Mech
03-Sep-02	III	Alimuddin	Mohammad	SP/Mech
iS-Oct-02	HI	On	Frankie	SP/Mech
10-Feb-04	III	Pua	Prad	Mech
17-Jan-os	III	Higginson	Rob	Mech
28-Dec-05	HI	LaCapruccia	Marco	Mech
!5-May-o6	III	BerinR	.Jeff	Mech
2-Jan-07	HI	Carmichael	Stephen	Mech
65
Craft Group IV - Refinery
:::. Seniority	Craft Group	Last Name	First Name		Job Class
21-Oct-70	IV	O'Neil	Ken		Op
14-Dec-70	IV	Mask		Mel	Op
14-Oct-71	IV	Langlois			Op
o8-Aug-72	IV	Colig		Tony	Op
22-Aug-72	IV	Mitchell		. Y\n«:.. ...	Op
06-&P-72	IV	Silahall		tlStOM	Op
	IV	Scuccim a rri	Jack		GH
	IV	Amor	R.ek		
12-Feb-74	IV	Gill	Guisewak		Op
ll-Mar-74	IV	Devin	A)		Op
29-Apr-74	IV	Pilozo	Greg		Op
25-NOV-74	IV	Pellicciotta	Bruno		Op
	IV	Wbitlingstal]	Dave		
j 4-Apr-75	IV	Gill	Dalhara		Op _
07-Jan-76	IV	Godden	George		
22-Sep-97	IV	Chat both	Sasi		Op
22-Sep-97	IV	tsta brooks	Derek		Op
02-Apr-0!	IV	Anderson	Rov		Op
04-N0V-02	IV	Estrelon	Brian		
08-Jan-03	IV	Duncan	Scott		Op
	IV	Bryson	Don		Op
08-M ay-06	IV	Patel	Harsh ad		Op
Craft Group V -Lab
Seniority	Craft Group	Last Name	First Name	Job Class
03-Aug-65	V	Matluzzi	Al	C/Tech
09-Apr-68	V	McKechnie	Owen	S/Tech
07-Jan-74	V	Dharamsln	Sharad	S/Tech
27-Feb-74	V	Sal inn	Ci'ispo	S/Tech
14-N0V-74		Paska	Davor	S/Tech
09-May-75		R<idenic	Veijko	S/Tech
02-Mar-76	\	McFarlane	Doug	S/Tech
Seniority 27-Feb-89
Craft
Croup
i	Caste Hat
A good Union member is an informed Union member - Attend your Union Meetings.
Notify your Local Union office of any change of address.
If you leave the industry you must immediately request a Withdrawal Card from your Local Union Office.
Support Your Local Union-In Unity There is Strength!
