COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT BETWEEN:
HERSHEY CANADA INC., Smiths Falls Ontario (hereinafter referred to as “the Company”) and
RETAIL, WHOLESALE AND DEPARTMENT STORE UNION, AFL-CIO-CLC, (hereinafter referred to as the “Union”)
ARTICLE 1 - RECOGNITION:
1.01	The Company recognizes the Union as the exclusive bargaining agent of all employees of the Company at Smiths Falls, Ontario save and except supervisors, persons above the rank of supervisor, office and sales staff, laboratory staff, students employed during school vacation peroid, and persons regularly employed for not more than twenty-four (24) hours per week.
1.02	Part-time employees will not be used when any full-time employees, subject to recall, are on layoff except when laid off employees are not available to do bargaining unit work.
ARTICLE 2 - MANAGEMENT RIGHTS:
2.01	Except where specifically abridged by the terms of this Agreement, the management of the Company’s operations and the selection and direction of employees will continue to be vested exclusively with the Company.
2.02	Discipline and Discharge:
The Company has the right to discipline or discharge employees subject to the right of an employee, who has completed his probationary period, to file a grievance alleging such discipline or discharge was without just cause.
2.03	Productivity Clause
The Union and the Company recognize that productivity
improvement is essential to the well-being of the employees and the Company. Accordingly, the Union and the Employer will cooperate in efforts to maintain and improve productivity at all levels throughout the Plant. This language shall be interpreted so that it does not conflict with the other articles of agreement.
ARTICLE 3 - NO STRIKES OR LOCKOUTS:
3.01	The Company will not lock out employees, nor will there be any strikes on the part of the Union or the employees.
3.02	The terms “strike” and “ lockout” as used above shall be defined in accordance with the definitions set out in the Ontario Labour Relations Act.
ARTICLE 4 - UNION REPRESENTATION:
4.01	The Union shall have the right to appoint or otherwise select a committee of four (4) employees plus the Plant President of the Union, to participate in the negotiation or administration of this or subsequent agreements.
4.02	The Union shall have the right to appoint or otherwise select 1 steward/department on the day shift, 2 stewards on the afternoon shift, and 2 stewards on the midnight shift. The maximum number of stewards in the Plant will not exceed 21 in total.
4.03	An employee will not be eligible to act as a Steward or member of the Union Committee until after he has completed the probationary period of employment
4.04	Employees of the Company who are members of ( the Union Committee, or stewards, have regular duties to
i perform. Such employees will not leave their work for . conducting any business on behalf of the Union or employees, without receiving permission from their
' 2
immediate supervisor. Such permission will j not be unreasonably withheld.	.,,	'
4.05	The Company will reimburse five (5) meitibers of j the Committee for up to eight (8) hours straight time pay ' lor time spent during the employee’s regular working j hours, Monday to Friday, for negotiating the renewal of j the Collective Agreement up to the making of an • application for conciliation.
ARTICLE 5 - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE:
5.01	Any complaint raised by an employee with his supervisor which is not settled within one (1) lull working day will, within a lurther period of two (2) working days, be referred to the Manager, Employee Relations as a written grievance, which will be dated and signed by the employee. During any discussion of a complaint with the Supervisor, the employee’s steward will be present if requested by either the employee or the supervisor.
5.02	Step tt 1
Within three (3) working days following receipt of a written grievance, the Manager, Employee Relations and/or such other persons as may be designated by the Company will meet with the employee and the steward to discuss the grievance. Within three (3) working days thereafter, the Manager, Employee Relations or his designate will give a written reply to the grievance which shall be copied to the Union President.
5.03	Step # 2
If the reply of the Manager, Employee Relations is not satisfactory to the employee concerned, the grievance may, within three (3) working days following the date of the reply at Step 1, be referred to the Plant Manager. Within five (5) working days thereafter, the Plant Manager and/or such other persons as may be designated
3
7.04	Each of the parties will bear the expenses of the arbitrator it appoints. The parties will jointly bear the expense of the Chairman.
7.05	The Arbitration Board shall not render any decision which is inconsistent with the terms of this Agreement, nor shall the said board add to, alter, amend or deal with any matter not contained herein.
7.06	A unanimous or majority descision of an Arbitration Board will be final and binding on the parties to this Agreement. If no majority decision is given, the decision of the Chairman will be final and binding. , 7
ARTICLE 8 - SENIORITY:	%' (p
8.01	Any employee hired as a new employee by the' Company will be on probation and will not have any seniority standing until after he has completed sixty (60) days of work. His seniority will then date back sixty (60) working days from the sixtieth (60) day worked. A probationary employee will have twelve (12) months from the date of hire to accumulate his sixty (60) days. Notwithstanding any other provision contained in the Collective Agreement, the discharge of an employee during his probationary period shall be at the sole 0 discretion of the Company.
8.02	(a) Lay-off and Recall	■’
In all cases of lay-off and recall to work following such lay-off, except lay-offs pursuant to Article 8.02 (b), Article 8.02 (e) and Article 8.03, seniority shall be the governing factor providing the employee has the reasonable skill and ability to perform the work required. For the purposes of lay-offs under this section, a lay-off will be for a period exceeding five (5) working days, and the senior employee will be providedwith up to five (5) working days of training. Such an employee will be
6 ^ T
assigned by the Company to displace an employee with less seniority in his classification or a lower classification subject to the following conditions:
i)	an employee shall retain his rate in his normal classification for a period up to three (3) months;
ii)	employees who have completed the probationary
period will be given a minimum of fourty-eight (48) hours notice of lay-off except when it is beyond the reasonable control of the Company;	1s
iii)	if an employee in Production I, is displaced from his job and there is no vacancy within the employee’s present class nor in a class below the employee’s present class and a job is being performed by an employee with less seniority than the displaced employee, the Company will assign the displaced employee to a job in Production I or Production II.
The following procedure will determine layoff and humping rights:
1.	The junior person in the affected position within the classification shall exercise bumping rights within the department as follows:
(a)	The most junior person within the classification, or if there is not a most junior person, then
(b)	The most junior person in the department in a lower classification.
2.	If there is no junior person within the department, then the employee will displace the most junior person in the Plant, provided such a move does not create a bump up.
3.	Employees who arc positioned to displace the most junior person in the Plant (as defined in 2) will be allowed to choose the job of their choice, by seniority. A copy of these job-options will be provided to the Union President.
4.	If their seniority allows it, affected employees must exercise their right to displace a junior employee as outlined above.
5,	Employees in the classification who remain in the bid position after a layoff, but have to change shifts will be offered their choice of shift by seniority.
8.02	(b) Temporary Lay-Offs
A temporary lay-off shall be any lay-off for a period not exceeding five (5) working days or less. For purposes of such lay-offs, a seniority employee who possesses the necessary skills and is fully qualified to immediately perform the work required will be assigned by the Company to displace an employee with less seniority in his classification or a lower classification subject to the following conditions:
i)	if an employee in Production I is displaced from his job and there is no vacancy within the employee’s present class nor in a class below the employee’s present class and a job is being performed by an employee with less seniority than the displaced employee, the Company will assign the displaced employee to a job in Production I or II.
8.02	(c)
Unless a ticketed specialist or apprentice no probationary employee will perform bargaining unit work if there is a bargaining unit member on layoff providing such a move is not a bump up.
8.02	(d)
In transferring employees temporarily from one department to another other than a lay-off situation, the Company will transfer the most junior employee from the department from which the transfer is to be made provided:
i)	That such employee is fully qualified to perform the
8
normal duites of the work required.
ii)	That employees remaining in the department are fully qualified to perform the normal duties of the work required in the department from which the transfer is made.
iii)	That senior employees remaining in the department do not volunteer.
iv)	In no circumstances will a temporary transfer exceed six (6) months unless mutually agreed upon by the Company and the Union and the employee involved.
8.02	(e)
In cases of permanent lay-off due to amalgamation of jobs or discontinuation of a job, the following procedure will apply:
i)	The newly created job will be posted as per Article
17.01	and filled as per Article 8.02.
ii)	Any employee displaced by such a job change, or whose job becomes redundant will displace the most junior employee in his class, i.e. Operator I, Production IV, and will be given training for the job. An employee must acquire all the necessary skills to fulfill the scope of the work in a reasonable length of time.
iii)	Any further employees displaced as a result of employee bumping in (ii) above, will displace the most junior employee in the next lower class and such bumping will progress through each class.
iv)	In this type of situation, Article 8.02 will not apply to paragraph (ii) and (iii) above.
8.03	The Company will not be required to observe the provision of 8.02 for lay-offs of one (1) fill shift or less. However, this section shall not be applied for a total of more than six (6) full shifts in any twelve (12) month period.
9
In the event that the Company invokes this article, the Company shall provide written notice within 48 hours to the Union President for the purposes of calculating the number of such incidences in the 12 month period as described above.
8.04	Seniority previously accumulated will be lost and employment terminated whenever an employee:
a)	quits his employment or is discharged for just cause;
b)	is absent from work in excess of one (1) day without an r explanation satisfactory to the Company;
U Sj fails to return to work when recalled from a lay-off; /d) is laid off for a continuous period of twelve (12) < S} months.
8.05	The Company will contact employees to advise of a recall to work following lay-off. Employees not contacted will be sent a registered letter or telegram addressed to the last address recorded with the Company by the employee.
A person being recalled by registered letter shall signify his intention to return to work within five (5) days after the notice has been sent out and shall return to work within a further two (2) days.
8.06	(a) An up-to-date seniority list, showing the names, seniority dates, bid shifts, bid jobs will be posted on the bulletin board every three (3) months. A copy will be given to the Union President upon request.
b)	Within one month of ratification of the collective agreement, the Company shall supply the Union President with a list of all employees (including temporary employees) names, addresses and fisted phone numbers. The Company will update this list as required and forward any changes to the Union President.
c)	Probationary employees that are assigned to a posting as a result of no other bargaining unit member posting
10
for that position will be deemed to be bid on the job that they were assigned after the successful completion of their probationary period.
8.07	Where the Company terminates the work day for
a portion of the work force of employee’s before eight (8) hours have been worked, those employees who have the greatest seniority within the affected classifications within the department will be allowed to leave the plant, provided there are sufficient qualified employees remaining to perform the work.	< j'
8.08	In the event of an extensive lay-off due to lack ''' j of work, the President will be retained in employment provided the said President has more than three (3) years
of seniority and further, provided there is work available he is qualified to perform.
ARTICLE 9 - HOLIDAYS:
9.01 The following days will be recognized by the Company as paid holidays:
New Year’s Day Good Friday Victoria Day Canada Day Civic Holiday Floater Holidays,
(2)
Labour Day Thanksgiving The Day before
Christmas Day / Christmas Day / /
V'
The Day after Christmas Day
/ i!
Floating Holidays will be celebrated by each employee on a date to be decided by the Company and the employee. Employees must provide two (2) weeks’ notice as to the day they intend to celebrate the floating holiday. While the Company will make every effort to accomodate employees, the holiday must not interfere with the Company’s ability to meet production requirements. In the event either the Provincial or Federal Government declares another holiday which must be observed and
11
paid, then such holiday shall replace one (1) floating holiday referred to above.
9.02	To qualify for holiday pay, an employee will be required:
(a)	to have completed the probationary period;
(b)	to have worked the scheduled shift on the day immediately preceding the holiday and the scheduled shift on the day immediately succeeding the holiday. However, payment for the holiday will be made if an employee worked during the week in which the holiday occured, but was prevented from working the days immediately preceding and succeeding the holiday because of lay-off by the Company, due to lack of work, or verified personal illness. Such verification will be in the form of a doctor’s note to be presented upon returning to work.
9.03	Where a paid holiday occurs during an employee’s vacation, the employee will be given a day off with pay in lieu thereof at a time arranged with his supervisor, provided the employee is otherwise qualified to receive pay for the said holiday.
9.04	In the weeks in which paid holidays occur, for purposes of weekly overtime, the work week will be reduced by eight (8) hours for each holiday and overtime will, in such weeks, be paid for the time worked in excess of eight (8) hours daily and the appropriate reduced work week, but not both.
9.05	Where a paid holiday occurs on a Saturday, it will be celebrated on the immediately preceding Friday. Where a paid holiday occurs on a Sunday, it will be celebrated on the immediately succeeding Monday. Holidays shall be deemed to be on the actual calendar day on which they fall except where changed by Federal or Provincial legislation,
12
9.06	Except for engineers, maintenance and milk receiving, no employee shall be compelled to work on a paid holiday. --
ARTICLElO-VACATIONS:
10.01	For vacation purposes only, continuous service will be calculated as of June 30th. However, in the year an employee reaches his fifth, tenth, eighteenth, and twenty-fifth year of continuous service, he will receive the additional vacation on his anniversary date. In the following year, his vacation entitlement will be as defined in Article 10:01 and 10:02.
10.02	Vacations with pay will be granted in accordance
with the following schedule:	-j'1	__ o'	'	■'
Effective for 1991 Vacations:	0 A, ' 0 ' fje
(a)	One (1) year of continuous service - two (2) weeksi^U
(b)	Five (5) years of continuous service - three (3) weeks. ■' !
(c)	Ten (10) years of continuous service - four (4) weeks.
(d)	Eighteen (18) years of continuous service - five (5) weeks.
(e)	Twenty-five (25) years of continuous service - six (6) weeks.
Effective for 1992 Vacations:
(a)	One (1) year of continuous service - two (2) weeks.
(b)	Five (5) years of continuous service - three (3) weeks.
(c)	Ten (10) years of continuous service - four (4) weeks.
(d)	Eighteen (18) years of continuous service - five (5) weeks.
(e)	Twenty-five (25) years of continuous service - six (6) weeks.
Effective for 1993 Vacations:
(a)	One (1) year of continuous service - two (2) weeks.
(b)	Five (5) years of continuous service - three (3) weeks.
(c)	Ten (10) years of continuous service - four (4) weeks.
(d)	Eighteen (18) years of continuous service - five (5) weeks.
13
(e)	Twenty-five (25) years of continuous service - six (6) weeks.
10.03	Employees with less than one (1) year of continuous service as of June 30th will be paid a vacation allowance in accordance with the Employment Standards Act of the Province of Ontario.
10.04	Payment for vacations will be on the basis of two percent (2%) of an employee’s earnings during the previous vacation year for each week of vacation to which he is entitled.
10.05	All earned vacations must be completed during the twelve (12) months succeeding June 30th. No more than four (4) weeks vacation can be taken at one time without the Company’s permission,
10.06	Where the Company does not close the plant for vacation purposes or a vacation period, vacations will be granted on the basis of seniority by departments, with senior employees being given the first selection of vacation dates. However, this shall not be applied to the detriment of the Company maintaining sufficient employees who are qualified to perform the work. A vacation list will be posted not later than March 15th in each department and choice of available dates will be made by April 15th. Once the dates have been chosen, no changes may be made except with the consent of the Company. However, those employees who wish to take all or part of their vacations between October 1st and June 30th shall not be required to select the available dates until September 1st. An employee who does not exercise this selection by April 15th or who does not notify the Company by that date that he wishes to postpone his selection until September 1st, will forfeit any right to exercise the terms thereof.
10.07	In the event of a partial vacation shutdown for
14
the summer or Christmas period, a senior employee shall not be forced to take vacation if they have the ability to immediately perform any of the remaining work within the Plant.	^
ARTICLE 11 - HOURS OF WORK:	U
11.01	The Company does not guarantee to provide '■' work for daily or weekly hours, or for any other hours.
11.02	The regular work week will consist of forty (40) hours to be worked in five (5) days of eight (B) hours each" day. The days of work starting and quitting times will be determined by the Company in accordance with its requirements. When employees are required to work a shift on Saturday as a part of their regular work week, '; then a premium of one dollar and twenty-five cents ' ($1.25) per hour will be paid for each regular hour worked on the Saturday shift, and two dollars ($2.00) per . hour premium will be paid for each regular hour worked ;' on the Sunday shift up to 11:00 p.m. The Saturday and v Sunday premiums shall not be considered a part of an employee’s hourly rate and will not be paid for any hours where the overtime rate is applicable.
11.03	Except where it is beyond the reasonable control of the Company, where the days to be worked in a work week are to be changed, any employee involved in the said change will be given a minimum of forty-eight (48) hours notice, Employees will not be required to work shifts where there is not twelve (12) hours off between the end of one shift and the start of the next shift. Where an employee voluntarily works, those hours before 12 shall be paid at overtime rate.
11.04	The lunch period will be one-half (1/2) hour without pay.
11.05	(a) A rest period of fifteen (15) minutes’ duration
15
will be provided in each half shift, at times designated by the company.
(b) Where an employee is required to continue working overtime at the end of his shift without a break being provided before the overtime commences, and such overtime exceeds two (2) consecutive hours, an additional paid rest period of fifteen (15) minutes will be provided during the period of the overtime work.
11.06	The regular work week for Stationary Engineers will consist of forty-two (42) hours to be averaged over a four (4) week period. Changes in work schedules will be posted as far in advance as practical.
11.07	A Stationary Engineer who is completing his shift will be required to remain on the job until the reporting employee is available and ready to take over the succeeding shift, or until other arrangements have been made by the Maintenance Manager. No employee will be allowed to work more than two (2) consecutive shifts,
11.08	Employees with seniority excluding Engineers, will be given preference of shift start times as outlined in the Collective Agreement. Where employees mutually agree to temporarily change shifts the change must be agreed to by the Company and the Union and the employee involved.
Notwithstanding the above, any Machine Operator/P ackers that currently have preference of shift start-tunes (by seniority) will continue to enjoy this practice for the term of the Collective Agreement.
11.09	All employees with five (5) years or more seniority, except packers (covered under 11.08), maintenance department personnel and stationary engineers shall have the opportunity of selecting the shift on which they wish to work on their present job according to seniority.
16
The Company will implement these shift selections employees on August 4,1987.	,
ARTICLE 12 - OVERTIME:	V ' ,
12.01	Overtime at the rate of time and one-half an employee’s regular hourly rate will be paid for all time worked in excess of eight (8) hours daily and forty, (40) hours weekly, but not both, Monday through Saturday. Overtime rate for all Sunday hours worked will be twice the regular hourly rate. Overtime for work on a statutory holiday will be twice the regular hourly rate.
12.02	(a) Overtime opportunities in the department will be offered to the most Senior bid employee on the job in the classification who is capable of immediately performing the job.
In the event that there is still not enough overtime coverage, the overtime opportunity will be offered to the senior employee in the department capable of immediately performing the job.
In the event that there is still not enough overtime coverage the overtime opportunity will be offered to the senior employee outside the department immediately capable of doing the job.
Probationary employees will qualify for overtime only after all employees with seniority have had the opportunity to work the overtime opportunity. The exception to this will be when a probationary employee has been assigned a bid and is therefore deemed to be bid on the job and is performing the function on a regular basis.
Notwithstanding the above, when overtime is required at the end of the shift, the overtime will be offered to the senior employee in the classification on the bid position in the department on the shift. If sufficient overtime coverage is not obtained then this overtime opportunity
17
will be offered to the senior employee in the department on the shift capable of immediately performing the job.
Overtime distribution for Machine Operator/Packers scheduled for the monthly rotation (Jensen - PBC, and Cherry Blossom - Rose Forgrove) will be offered by seniority on the bid position within the teams.
Overtime Distribution for all other Machine/Operator Packers in the Wrapping Room department will be as follows:
(i)	it will be offered by seniority to employees within the classification and the line team, and in the event there is still not enough overtime coverage,
(ii)	It will be offered by seniority to employees within the classification within the other line teams, and in the event there is still not enough overtime coverage,
(iii)	It will be offered by seniority to employees in the department immediately capable of performing the job, and in the event there is still not enough overtime coverage,
(iv)	It will be offered by seniority to employees outside the department immediately capable of performing the the job.
b)	The Company reserves the right to deviate from above if employee’s health or work is deemed to suffer as a result of excessive overtime.
c)	An employee who is performing overtime work in a classification lower than his own, will be paid the overtime rate which is applicable to his own classification.
d)	Working Leadhands that work over 20 hours weekly shall be entitled to overtime in their Bid Job Classification, and as Leadhand.
e)	No employee except engineers, will be allowed to work more than 16 hours within a 24 hour period unless mutually agreed to by the Company, Union, and employee involved.
18
12.03	If an employee commits to work a required overtime shift and fails to report for work without providing a legitimate reason to the Company or fails to provide a medical certificate which would excuse the absence, then the employee will have his name put on a mandatory overtime list.
The Company shall have the right to schedule employees to accomodate production needs from the mandatory overtime list. If an employee fails to report for a mandatory overtime scheduled shift he will be subject to progressive discipline, An Employee’s name shall be removed from the mandatory overtime list after a 2 month period. The Company agrees that people excluded from the mandatory overtime list shall have first refusal of overtime requirement, as defined in 12:02. U1 ,
12.04	Having exhausted the voluntary overtime list and' the mandatory overtime list, if Hershey National Stock level on a product drops below five (5) weeks inventory the Company has the right to select the junior qualified bid employee in the Plant to perform the required overtime. The inventory stock level documentation of the specific product will be reviewed with the Union President prior to implementing the mandatory overtime. Should other circumstances arise, the overtime requirement policy will apply upon mutual agreement
between the Company and the Union
■ f tV
ARTICLE 13 - CALL IN PAY:	<
13.01	An employee who is called in to work to meet emergency conditions after having completed his shift and having left the Company property, will be guaranteed the equivalent of not less than four (4)Jiours pay at the employee’s applicable hourly rate- of pay~or one and one-half (11 li) times the employee’s hourly rate of pay for all hours worked, or twice the employee’s hourly pay for all hours worked on Sunday or a Statutory
19
Holiday whichever is greater, In addition, the Company will pay one hour bonus pay at an employee’s regular hourly rate of pay for all call-ins. An employee who has been called into work and subsequently called to cancel the call-in shall be guaranteed one hour’s pay for such call.
13.02	If the call-in occurs less than one (1) hour before the regular starting time, the call-in pay will be limited to the time remaining prior to the said regular time.
13.03	Any employee called at home by a Supervisor to solve a work related problem shall receive one hours pay at their regular rate.
ARTICLE 14 - REPORTING FOR WORK PAY:
14.01	An employee who reports for work at the start of his shift, without having been notified in advance not to
(j repiort, and no work is available for such an employee, ■X/ ,}.will be paid four (4) hours’ pay at his regular rate. This C) obligation on the part of the Company will not prevail where an employee does not keep the Company notified of his current address and the telephone number if any, or where the Company is prevented from providing work because of fire, flood, lack of hydro or steam power, strike, or any similar circumstances.
ARTICLE 15 - MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS:
15.01	Where used in this Agreement, and where applicable, the male pronoun will be deemed to include the female pronoun.
15.02	Employees who are required by the Company to wear uniforms will be provided with such uniforms as follows:
i)	Year One - Each employee will be provided with four (4) uniforms by July 15th.
ii)	Year Two - Effective twelve (12) months from the
20
date of the receipt of the first uniform issue referred to in (i) each employee shall receive five (5) additional uniforms:
iii)	Year Three - Effective twelve (12) months from the date of the receipt of the first uniform issue referred to in (i) each employee shall receive five (5) additional uniforms:
iv)	AU employees hired after the date of the first uniform issue referred to in (i) shall receive four (4) uniforms and five (5) additional uniforms twelve (12) months from the date of receipt of the first issue.
v)	The employee will have the choice of receiving 2 sweatshirts in lieu of 2 uniform tops.
The cleaning and maintenance of uniforms and any additions to the number supplied by the Company shall be the responsibility of employees. Uniforms shall be kept clean and in good condition. AU uniforms worn shall be of the design and colour required by the Company.
15.03	Effective February 1,1991 the Company will pay each seniority employee a seventy dollar ($70.00) safety shoe allowance. AU present seniority employees will receive a further seventy-five dollars ($75.00) safety shoe allowance effective February 1,1992, and February 1, 1993. Any employee who completes his probationary period shall receive a seventy dollar ($70.00) safety shoe allowance and a further seventy-five dollar ($75.00) safety shoe allowance on the anniversary date of the completion of his probationary period. Safety shoes shall only be worn in connection with work for the Company and shall be left at the plant.
15.04	The Company agrees to continue paying for all benefits during an employee’s pregnancy leave.
21
15.05	An employee who is required by law to serve as a juror or crown witness will be paid his full regular wages based on forty (40) hours per week during the time as such service provided:
(a)	he turns over to the Company the amount received from the court;
(b)	he reports for work on any days he is not required to be in attendance in the courtroom.
15.06	The Company will make reasonable provision for the safety of its employees during their hours of work. The joint Health and Safety Committee will meet once . per month unless the Union and the Company otherwise j agree. The Union will actively participate with the Company in the promotion of safe working habits and practices.
j/ 15.07 Supervisors will not perform work normally I performed by employees in the bargaining unit except:
I (a) in cases of emergency conditions;
(b)	when performing development or experimental work;
(c)	when checking production on machines or on any lines;
(d)	when instructing employees or other supervisory personnel;
(e)	when regular employees are not available due to being late or otherwise absent from their work or jobs.
15.08	Each tradesman or apprentice who is required by the Company to supply tools to be used in connection with his work will be given an allowance of:
(a)	$140.00 effective Year I.
(b)	$145.00 effective Year II.
(c)	$160.00 effective Year III.
for the purchase and replacement of tools. Payment will be made June 30th of each year.
22
15.09(a)
Rotation in the Wrapping Room and Glosettes Departments will be as follows:
1.	The Company has defined the line teams in the
Wrapping Room and Glosettes department, as follows:
(a)	Jensen line.
(b)	P.B.C. line.
(c)	Cherry Blossom line, (note: Cherry Dropper will be included in Cherry Blossom rotation).
(d)	Rose Forgrove line.
(e)	Rovema line.
(f)	Hayssen line.
2.	Line Rotation will be as follows:
Monthly rotation - (a) Jensen - P.B.C.
(b) Cherry Blossom - Rose Forgrove. Daily rotation - Glosettes, Reeses Pieces, Rovema, Hayssen
3.	On the lines mentioned above, Production I Packers will be moved to Production III Machine Operator/Packers rate.
4.	Company will identify the rotating positions within each team in a Letter of Understanding.
5.	On-line rotation will be scheduled as equitably as possible every 1/2 hour within each team, and line productivity will not be adversely affected by this rotation. For purpose of this article, productivity will be defined as “hot seat changeover.”
6.	Current on-line rotation on the Oh Henry line will continue.
7.	The Company and the Union agree that the aforementioned job upgrades will fully resolve all outstanding Pay Equity issues in the Plant. The
23
, Company and the Union agree to post within two (2)
1 weeks of contract ratification a jointly agreed Pay Equity ! plan which clearly defines this resolution,
8.	Overtime for Production III Machine Operator/Packers in the Wrapping room department will be as per 12:02 (b).
9.	The choice of team selection will be done by seniority.
15.09	(b) Excluded from this provision will be Leadhands in the Wrapping and Glosettes Departments.
15.09	(c) Service Floor Attendants in the Wrapping Room (excluding the Oh Henry line) who are performing the job will rotate daily on all Service Floor Attendant jobs as equitably as possible.
ARTICLE 16 - BULLETIN BOARDS:
16.00 The Company agrees to provide the Union with its’ own bulletin board. The Union agrees to review all postings for the board with the Manager, Employee Relations or his designate for permission, before posting.
([Article 17 - job posting:
1 '17.01 (a) Notices of job vacancies, which will include the Q' ■ shift to be worked, will be posted on the bulletin boards -• , for five (5) days spanning a two (2) week period, exclusive 1 of Saturdays, Sundays, and Paid Holidays. During that period, employees who have completed the probationary period may make written application to the Employee Relations Department. The Company will give preference to the applicant with the greatest amount of seniority who has the necessary qualifications to perform the work assigned. If none of those applying has the qualifications established for the job, the Company may fill the vacancy from any source available. Employees will have the opportunity of changing shifts and/or jobs only through the posting procedure.
24
If applicable, the Company will include qualifications and experience required on job postings.
(b)	Temporary jobs which are to be of less than six (6) months duration will not be posted.
(c)	If a job posting is not filled by employees at work, the Company will recall employees on lay-off in order of seniority on a temporary basis until their former jobs become available again, provided the employee can perform the functions of the job within live (5) days of training. Then the Company will repost the position,
(cl) All notices of job vacancies posted shall state the job title, classification, department, shift and wage rate.
(e)	The Company shall post the name of the successful candidate for a period of five (5) days and a copy to be given to the successful candidate.
Within a five (5) day period from the time of determining the successful applicant the Company shall post on the Bulletin Board the name of the successful applicant for a period of five (5) days.
(f)	The Union President shall be supplied with a list of all
temporary jobs and the person working on said job/C/", monthly.	5“ L'' - j	> ^ '
(g)	In the event that an employee is absent due to sick S leave, L.T.D., Workers Compensation orU.I.C. Sick Benefits (Maternity Leave), their job will be posted after
6 months. T he candidate that holds the original bid who is off v, oi k for sick leave (etc.), will be allowed to return to his original job for up to two (2) years from the date he went off.
In the event that the temporary job holder is displaced by Ihe original bid candidate returning to his job within the two (2) year period, he will be displaced as per Article 8 of the Collective Agreement.
In the event that the original bid candidate does not return within the two (2) year period, or elects to
25
terminate his services with the Company, the temporary job holder will be deemed to be a successful candidate for the job.
A temporary job posting as described above will clearly indicate on the posting that the position will be temporary for up to two (2) years.
(h)	An employee can only hold one bid job.
(i)	The Union President is to be copied on all correspondence pertaining to job postings.
(j)	For the purpose of this Article a Job Posting will result if there is:
(i)	A vacated bid job.
(ii)	A new job.
(Hi) A job as defined in Article 17:01 (g).
(iv) A job which is reactivated after being vacant in excess of one year.
17.02	Only the original vacancy and the first two (2) subsequent vacancies resulting from filling the original vacancy will be posted. However, where further vacancies occur, consideration will be given to filling such vacancies with qualified employees already in the employ of the Company in the bargaining unit.
17.03	An employee who receives a job through the posting procedure shall receive the rate for the new job in fourteen (14) working days from the date the posting was made or the date on which he is placed on the job, whichever occurs first. The successful applicant will be notified within five (5) days after the posting period is completed.
The successful candidate shall be moved to his new job within twenty-eight (28) days of a successful bid unless mutually agreed to by the Company, the Union and the employee involved.
17.04	Employees will be restricted to receiving two (2) jobs through the posting procedure in a twelve month period.
17.05	An employee who is going to be absent from work and who thinks there may be a vacancy in a job where he desires to work may leave his name with the Employee Relations Department. If there is a vacancy in the work specified, he will be given full consideration along with the other bids received. The employee must report for the job within two (2) weeks of successful bidding or be disqualified.
17.06	A job which has been discontinued for more than twelve (12) months and becomes reactivated will be filled through the posting procedure as per 17.01 (a).
ARTICLE 18 - FUNERAL LEAVE:	'' ; , &
18.01	An employee who has completed the probationary period will be allowed up to three (3) working days’ leave of absence with pay in the event of the death of his father, mother, sister, brother, wife (husband), child, grandchild, mother-in-law, father-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, stepfather, stepmother, stepchild and grandparents. Such leave shall be for the purpose of making arrangements for and attending the funeral, and shall terminate on the day following the day of the funeral. Only that portion of the three (3) days that would otherwise have been regular time worked will be paid at regular hourly rates of pay.
18.02	Where a death of a brother-in-law or sister-in-law of an employee occurs, one (1) working day off with pay will be allowed on the day of the funeral, to attend the funeral.
(b) Employees who are unable to make arrangements for and attend the funeral because of excessive travel requirements will be granted one (1) day leave with pay. ARTICLE 19 - DEDUCTION OF UNION DUES:
19.01	On receipt of authorization forms individually
27
and voluntarily signed by employees, the Company will deduct Union dues in the amount as designated by the Union from the pay accumulated to the credit of such employees for the first pay period of each calendar month.
Amounts so deducted will be forwarded to a designated official of the Union within fifteen (15) days after the deductions have been made.
19.02	Authorization for the deduction of Union Dues will be made on copies of the following form:
I..................................... hereby authorize
Hershey Canada Inc. to deduct my monthly dues to Retail, Wholesale, Bakery and Confectionery Workers’ Union, Local 461 and forward the dues so deducted to the Secretary-Treasurer of the Retail, Wholesale, Bakery and Confectionery Workers’ Union, Local 461, whose receipt therefore shall be considered a discharge to the Company for the amounts so deducted. Such an authorization shall be irrevocable.
Signed....................., ,.....................
Address .............................................
19.03	New employees hired by the Company shall be - required to authorize the deduction of Union Dues from , their pay. The deduction of such dues shall commence after the employee has been employed for sixty (60) worked days. When a new employee is hired, he will be advised there is a Collective Agreement in effect and, within two (2) days after he commences work, such new employee will be introduced to the department steward.
28
19.04	The Union will save the Company harmless from any and all claims which may be made against the Company by employees for amounts deducted from pay as herein provided.	-j f' -y.
ARTICLE 20 - LEAVE OF ABSENCE:	V
20.01	Leave of absence without pay and without loss of seniority may be granted by the Company to employees for personal reasons, An employee requesting leave shall make such a request in writing at least two (2) weeks in advance of the date when the leave is required. Under normal circumstances, personal leave, when granted by the Company, shall not extend beyond thirty (30) days.
20.02	Leave of absence without pay and without loss of seniority, will be granted by the Company to not more than twelve (12) employees at a time to attend Union Functions, provided the request for such a leave is made at least two (2) weeks in advance of the effective date of said leave. The total accumulation of leave of absence for Union Functions shall not exceed thirty (30) working days in any twelve (12) month period.
Subject to operational requirements the Company will consider special requests for particular leaves of absences on an individual basis.	j
20.03	Leave of absence without loss of seniority will be
granted by the Company for the adoption of a child up to a period of six (6) months without any form of compensation.	/ \'y
ARTICLE 21 - WAGES:	^ •' ,	' •
21.01 The Company will classify employees and pay applicable wage rates in accordance with the following:
29
0
Effective
February 1, 1991
Less than	2 Years
2 Years	& Over
Effective
February 1, 1992
Less Than 2 Years 2 Years & Over
Effective
February 1, 1993
Less Than 2 Years 2 Years &Over
OPERATOR II
Press Room, Oh’Henry
Kitchen
OPERATOR I (Chocolate, Nut, Candy, Processing and Packaging, Oil Packaging, Eatmore, and Lowney Processing).
12.44
12.13
12.73
12.42
12.99
12.68
13.28
12.97
13.69
13.38
13.98
13.67
Ui
PRODUCTION IV
Peanut Butter Maker	11.72	12.01	12.27	12.56	12.97
Material Handlers (Shipping, Receiving and General Utility Wrapping)
Process Department Helper (Utility, Relief, Etc.)
Blender & Pulverizer
Pan Goods Department Helper 2
(Instantizer / Syrup Maker/Cocoa Syrup:
Ins. Mix Dept. Utility, Relief, etc.)
Oh Henry Pkg. Line Attendant Peanut Butter Cup Line Attendant Jensen Line Attendant
PRODUCTION 111
Cocoa/Syrup/Instant/Brown	11.56	11.85	12.11	12.40	12.81
Cow Line Attendant
Chocolate Milk Mix Operator and Baggers Nut Packaging Lie Attendants Palletizer
Mixing & Refining Pan Goods Dept. Helper 1
13.26
13.10
u>
N>
C ,
	Effective		Effective	Effective
Pan Goods Shaping	February 1, 1991		February 1, 1992	February 1, 1993
	Less than	2 Years	Less Than 2 Years	Less Than 2 Years
& Sorting Operator	2 Years	& Over	2 Years & Over	2 Years & Over
Syrup Maker (Pan Goods) Moulding Machine Helper Machine Operator Packer Groundskeeping Sanitation (Production Line) PRODUCTION H	11.56	11.85	12.11 12.40	12.81 13.10
Service Attendant Eatmore Cutter Raisin Washer PRODUCTION I	11.38	11.67	11.93 12.22	12.63 12.92
Sanitation (Janitorial) [ ,, General Labour 	 Nut Inspector Packers Pan Pushing Oh’Henry Brusher	11.22	11.51	11.77 12.06	12.47^ 12.76
HIRING CLASS	10.92		11.47	12.17
MAINTENANCE
Tradesman A	14.17	14.46	15.07	15.36	16.17	16.46
Tradesman B	13.37	13.66	14.27	14.56	15.37	15.66
^ Tradesman C	13.11	13.40	14.01	14.30	15.11	15.40
Helper I Apprentice	12.43	12.72	12.98	13.27	13.68	13.97
Chief Engineer		17.59	-	18.49	-	19.59
Engineers 2nd Class	16.30	16.59	17.20	17.49	18.30	18.59
Engineers 3rd Class	15.86	16.15	16.76	17.05	17.86	18.15
Specialists						
No Ticket	15.18	15.73	16.08	16.63	17.18	17.73
1 Ticket	15.88	16.43	16.78	17.33	17.88	18.43
2 Tickets	16.08	16.63	16.98	17.53	18.08	18.63
General Increase Year 1 reflects	.60	Year 2 .55		Year 3 .70		
Trades Adjustment	.40		.35		.40	
(Includes A, B, C mechanics, Stationary engineers, and ticketed/specialists. and specialist no ticket.)
Moulding Operator Adjustment 0-2 years - $ .00 2-5 years - $ .15 over 5 years - $ .10

21.02	Employees hired at the hiring rate will attain the rate of the classification to which they are assigned on completion of twenty (20) days of work.
21.03	(a) A leadhand appointed by the Company will receive a rate of forty cents (40 cents) in excess of the highest classification rate in the group of employees he is required to lead.
(b)	Leadhands will have no authority to hire or discharge or discipline, and shall not be used in the assessment of an employee’s performance for the purpose of discipline, promotion or an employee attaining seniority.
(c)	Leadhands will be selected from those employees with seniority and will not be selected from the ranks of temporary or probationary employees.
t's (d) Leadhands will be paid the leadhand premium all f ^ year.
>	i 5; 21.04 An afternoon shift premium of forty cents (40
cents) per hour will be paid for all hours worked on shiftT i ■ which commence from 1:00 p.m. to 9:00 p.m. A
>	i * midnight shift premium of forty-five cents (45 cents) per | yi hour will be paid for all shifts which commence from 9:00
< p.m. to 5:00 a.m.
21.05 (a) An employee who is temporarily transferred from a higher to a lower rated job for the convenience of the Company, and not as a result of the lack of work on his regular job, will be paid the higher rate for the duration of such temporary transfer.
(b) An employee who is temporarily transferred from a lower to a higher rated classification will receive the higher rate for all hours worked upon working four (4) hours or more continuously on the higher rated classification.
ARTICLE 22 - HEALTH AND WELFARE:
22.01 The employee shall have Health and Welfare
34
benefits as outlined in the “Employee Handbook” date 1991.
22.02	Insurance benefits contained herein are within the
control of third parties (i.e. the carriers of the said plans). Therefore, the Company shall not be responsible for any descisions made by the said third parties with respect to the payment or non-payment of benefits.	' ■t0
22.03	Severance pay - In the event of the closure of all of the Company’s operation in Smiths Falls or the closure of a portion leading up to the total closure, resulting in a permanent lay-off, the Company agrees to pay all terminated employees a severance pay for those employees with more than five (5) years seniority, amounting to one (1) week’s regular wages for each year of service and one-half (1/2) week’s regular wages for each year of service for those employees with less than five (5) years seniority.
’1

35
ARTICLE 23 - DURATION:
This agreement, which supersedes all previous Agreements, will remain in full force and effective from and including the ljt-tlaiLof .February 1991 to and including the 3Jst day of January 1994. Notice by either party that it mtenSfTOTmrmateAfr seek revisions to this Agreement may only be given during a period of not more than ninety (90) days and not less than thirty (30) days preceding the 31st of January 1994.
Signed at Smiths Falls this Tuesday, May 7,1991
For the Company
Daniel T. Darcy John Sheridan Peter Mallen Jim Moss
Burke MacGillivray Anthony Dauchess
For the Union
Kenneth Newberry Wm. Glenn Rathwell Bud Fawcett Carole Coughlin Jack Davis James Donnelly
36
LETTER OF INTENT
This letter will confirm the Company’s intent to use Hershey employees on lay-off as contractor helpers, when possible, in order to provide as much work to employees on lay-off as possible.
Whenever this agreement is made, it must be a feasible type of work assignment and must be agreed by the' contractor at the time the work is being performed.
Dan Darcy Plant Manager
37
LETTER OF INTENT
This letter will confirm the Company’s intent to continue to have Monday through Friday as the normal work week. However, the Company will experience times when it is necessary to schedule Saturday, Sunday or both as regular work days to accommodate what would be considered unusual circumstances.
If, in the future the Company finds it necessary to schedule Saturday, Sunday or both as regular work days, other than for temporary periods of time they will meet with the Union to discuss and mutually agree upon a system and procedure for the selection of work days on the basis of seniority.
The Company will not unilaterally introduce a Continental Work Week without discussion and mutual agreement with the Union.
Dan Darcy Plant Manager
38
LETTER OF INTENT - RE LAY-OFF
This letter will serve as a confirmation of the Company’s intent to maximize the lead time for all lay-offs which exceed five working days, except where it is beyond the reasonable control of the Company. To aid in this commitment, it is the Company’s intent to review manning requirements at each Labour-Management Meeting held monthly.
Dan Darcy Plant Manager
39
LETTER OF INTENT Maintenance Department Shift Selection The Company agrees to continue the current practice of shift rotation within the maintenance department in a fair and equitable manner. However, in the case of an emergency (equipment breakdown, installation, vacation, sickness) the Company reserves the right to be able to assign the required skills to the necessary shift.
Dan Darcy Plant Manager
40
LETTER OF INTENT	; j
Alternate Work Schedules
Notwithstanding Article 11.02 in cases where” the Company initiates and the Union agrees to implement alternate work schedules, the following schedule of benefits will apply for ten (10), and/or twelve (12) hour shifts.
Alternate Work Week Addendum for 11 1/2 Hour and 10 Hour Shift Statuatory Holidays The 8 hour entitlement will remain regardless of shift arrangement in that the total annualized work hours are the same.
Vacations
Selection of weeks off will remain same as current entitlement.
Vacation time is based on 40 hours/week for 1 week. Hours of Work
Saturday premium ($1.25/hour) and Sunday premium ($2.00/hour) will be preserved for hours regularly scheduled.
Overtime
Any hours over the regular scheduled work day will receive overtime premium.
Any hours worked over 80 in a two week period for the 111/2 hour shift will be paid in the second week at current O.T. rates.
Any day worked as a scheduled day off will receive O.T. at 11/2 times the regular rate of pay, provided the regular scheduled work week for the employee is complete. Sunday O.T. rate will be preserved,
All hours worked on the employee’s statuatory holiday will receive twice the regular hourly rate.
41
Funeral Leave
We would recognize the 3 days off period allowing full credit of hours based on the applicable schedule. %.
Sick Benefits	/ \
Entitlement will remain as per the current contract,^ ^ No employee will lose more than 24 hours during hi^jpst 3 days of illness
Shift Premium
A shift premium of one dollar ($1.00) per hour will be paid for each hour worked on the 111/2 hour shift alternate. This will replace the current differential.
AU other contract requirements for entitlement will remain in effect.
Dan Darcy Plant Manager
42
ADDENDUM
Extended Health Care Expenses Plan	'	'
The Company agrees to waive the $50.00 deductible for; employees effective February 1,1989.	/
43
November 27,1989
Addendum to the Alternate Work Schedule All hours worked on Saturday and Sunday will be paid the applicable overtime rates provided the employee has fulfilled his regular hours committments on the preceding Monday, Tuesday and Friday.
The Saturday premium ($1.25/hour) and Sunday premium ($2.00/hour) will not be preserved for hours regularly scheduled.
The Union and the Company agree that scheduled hours worked on Saturday and Sunday are not overtime hours, and as a result of the provisions of Article 12 do not apply.
0548C
44