No. OF
ttoptoms
COLLECTIVE AfREEfeN-
D*CMM.Or£5
g©W8CE
Iff.
TERM.
Ob--
%>
m.
0*
(H_
11
aSS.
mL
— Between —
Moirs Division, Hershey Canada Inc.
And—
The Bakery, Confectionery and Tobacco Workers International Union, Local 446 and
Teamsters, Chauffeurs, Warehousemen, Helpers and Miscellaneous Workers Union, Local 927,
COLLECTTIVE LABOUR AGREEMENT
Made this 28th dav of April. 1996. between Molrs Division, Hershey Canada Inc. of 375 Pleasant Street, Dartmouth, Nova Scotia collectively referred to as the “Company”
Of the first part----------------
-AND-
The Bakery, Confectioneryand Tobacco Workers International Union, Local 446 and the Teamsters, Chauffeurs, Warehousemen, HelpersandMiscellaneous Workers Union, Local 927 herein after collectively referred to as the”Union”.
Of the Second Part---------------
Witnesseth that the Company and the Union hereby mutually agree as follows:
INDEX
Article
Page
1.	Object of thisAgreement.........................1
2.	Bargaining Unit.................................1
3.	Mutual Rights and Benefits......................1
4.	Union Security................................  2
5.	Union Representation............................3
6.	Grievancews Procedure...........................4
7.	Arbitration.....................................5
8.	Seniority.......................................6
9.	Promotions,Transfers, Lay-offs, Re-Hirings......8
10.	Discipline....................................11
11.	Paid Holidays.................................12
12.	Vacations.....................................14
13.	Absences......................................16
14.	Wages.........................................17
15.	Hoursof Work and Overtime.....................20
16.	Bulletin Boards...............................20
17.	Medical Exams.................................21
18.	General.......................................21
19.Safety.........................................24
20.	Mechanization............................
21. Duration of Agreement.....................(....24
Appendix "A" Schedule of Wages Rates...........26
Appendix “B" Hoursof Work and
Overtime Regulations.................29
Appendix "C" Schedule of
Wages Rates- Maintenance...............36
39
Letters of Understanding
ARTICLE 1.00 - OBJECTS OF THIS AGREEMENT
1.01	- The purpose of this Agreement is to set forth the basic relationship between the Company and the Union, to set out the wages and basic working conditions of employees of the ,Company represented by the Unions and to set forth the means by which complaints, grievances and disputes shall be disposed of promptly and equitably.
ARTICLE 2.00- BARGAINING UNIT
2.01	- This agreement shall apply to all employees in the bargaining unit defined by the relevant orders of the Nova Scotia Labour Relations Board and the words “employee” and “employees” used herein refer to such employees. For brevity the pronoun “He” shall be interpreted to mean both male and female employees.
ARTICLE3.00- MUTUALRIGHTSAND BENEFITS
3.01	- No employee shall be asked or permittedto make any verbal or written contract with the Company which may limit, alter, modify or conflict with stipulations of this Agreement without prior agreement between the Union and the Company.
A Union Official or Shop Steward shall be present when a member of management has a meeting with a group of employees dealing with working conditions.
3.02	- There shall be no lockout by the Company and no strike by the Union during the term of this Agreement. The Union agrees that it will not cause, authorize nor sanction its members to cause or take part in any sit-down, stay-in, or slow-down, in any department, or any strike stoppage of any of the Company's operations, or any curtailment of work, or restriction of, or
( 1 )
*7
interference with production, or any picketing of the Company's premises during the term of this Agreement.
3.03	- The Union acknowledges that it is the exclusive function of the Company:
(a)	To maintain order, discipline and efficiency.
(b)	To hire, discharge, transfer, promote, classify, demote or discipline employees provided a claim of discriminatory promotion, demotion or transfer, or a claim that an employee has been discharged or disciplined without reasonable cause may be the subject of a grievance dealt with as hereinafter provided.
(c)	Generally to manage, control, continue, discontinue, in whole or in part, the industrial enterprise in which the Company is engaged.
3.04	- The Company shall exercise its rights under this collective agreement fairly and reasonably in good faith and without discrimination and in a manner consistent with the provisions of the collective agreement.
ARTICLE 4.00 ■ UNION SECURITY
4.01	- Any employee hired before the 15th day of February, 1957, may if he wishes, sign and deposit with the Company an approved check-off form, authorizing the Company to deduct from his pay, an amount equivalent to weekly Union dues. Such check-off form shall, when deposited with the Company, be ,irrevocable except during the period of the last two (2) months of the terms of this Agreement.
4.02	- Any employee, as a condition of employment, shall sign and deposit with the Company, an approved check-offform authorizing the Company to deduct from
(2 )
his pay an amount equivalent to Union dues, to be deducted weekly. Such check-off form shall, when deposited with the Company, be irrevocable except during the last two (2) months of the agreement.
4.03	- If an employee is absent or on vacation at the time any deduction should be made from his pay, such deduction shall be made from the first full pay which he receives following his return to work. However, any employee on sick leave or leave of absence may contact their shop steward and obtain a withdrawal card. Persons receiving a withdrawal card shall not pay back dues missed on their return to work.
4.04	- The Company shall remit all amounts so deducted to the Treasurer of the Union on or before the fifteenth (15) day of the following month, together with a list of all persons who have ceased to be or have become employees since the preparation of the preceding list.
ARTICLE 5.00- UNION REPRESENTATION
5.01	- The Union shall have the right to appoint a shop stewardfbrthe employees- if necessary,additionalstew-ards may be appointed. All shop stewards shall be elected by the Union members in the shop concerned and shall be employees in the shops for which they are stewards. There shall be no discrimination against stewards for Union activities. Election of Shop Stewards may be carried out on Company premises after agreement with the Company.
5.02	- The Union shall keep the Company advised in writing of the names of the shop stewardsand their usual areas of responsibility.
5.03	- The Union representatives shall, with the Company's permission, be permitted to enter the Company
( 3 )
premises on Union business so long as he does not unduly interfere with the work in progress.
ARTICLE 6.00 - GRIEVANCES PROCEDURE
6.01	- Differences of interpretation or the violation by the Company or any employee of any of the provisions of this Agreement as well as any other complaint relating to working conditions shall be considered a grievance, provided that no complaint by any employee shall be considered a grievance until formal discussions be-Ween the individual concerned and his immediate supervisor has taken place. The supervisor must deal with it within one working day. No grievance shall be considered unless it is submitted within 30 working days after the happening of the event which gave rise to the grievance, including Safety.
6.02	- The procedure for processing the grievance of an employee or group of employees shall be as follows:
(a)	The steward acting on behalf of the employee or group of employees shall first submit the grievance in writing to the department supervisor or other immediate supervisor, whose decision shall be rendered within two (2) working days.
(b)	Failing an answer or satisfactory.settlement, the chief steward or designated Union Representativeshall within four (4) working days submit the grievance in writing to the Company's Plant Manager or his designated representative, who shall meet with the Union Representative and render a decision within another three (3) working days.
(c)	Failingan answer or satisfactory settlement, the grievance shall be referred to single arbitration in accordance with Article 7 cf this Agreement. It should be noted that
(4 )
the decision to go to arbitration must be made within a period of twenty (20) working days after failure to reach a satisfactory settlement in the grievance procedure.
6.03	- If in case an extension may be required to Article 6 or 7, this will be only acceptable by mutual agreement of both the Company and the Union.
ARTICLE 7.00 - ARBITRATION
7.01	- No matter shall be submitted to a single arbitrator until after it has been processed under the grievance procedure set out in Article 6 of this Agreement.
7.02	- When notice of arbitration is given by the Union or the Company each shall, within the ensuing four (4) days choose an arbitrator and notify the other of its choice.
7.03	- The single arbitrator's fees and expenses shall be paid in equal parts by the Union and the Company.
7.04	- Should either party refuse or neglect to appoint its arbitrator within the time stipulated in Clause 7.02 and 7,03 of this Article 7, such appointment or appointments may be made by the Ministerof Labourfor Nova Scotia.
7.05	- The decisions of the arbitrator shall be given within fourteen (14) days after the appointment and his view shall be binding on both the Union and the Company. The arbitrator shall not be authorized to make any decision, inconsistent with the provisions of this Agreement or to delete, alter or modify any part thereof.
(5)
ARTICLE 8.00 - SENIORITY
8.01	- The purpose of seniority is to provide a policy governing promotions, transfers, lay-offs and re-hirings.
8.02	- Upon completion of a probationary period of 45 working days within a period of six (6) months, every employee in the bargaining unit shall acquire seniority rights but his seniority shall be calculated from the date of his hiring. However, that probationary period may be extended for a maximum of 20 additional working days, with the mutual agreement of the Company and the Union.
During their probationary period, an employee will be on trial and may be suspended, laid-off, recalled or dismissed at the sole discretion of the Company. The Union recognizes that the grievance and arbitration procedures will not apply in those cases.
8.03	' An employee shall forfeit his seniority if he voluntarily resigns, is discharged for just cause or is absent for three (3) consecutive working days without notifying the Company or without reasonable excuse for not notifying.
8.04	- Inability to work because of proven illness or injury with medical evidence shall not result in the loss of seniority rights but the Company shall not be obliged to re-instate the employee in his former job. Time lost from work owing to illness or injury within the limits set out by this Clause shall be included in the employee's seniority rating. If the employee does not agree with the Company's Doctor, he shall have the right to ask for mutual agreed independent medical opinion.
Where an employee has one year's continuous service, is physically injured at work and is unable to ( 6 )
perform the job he had prior to the injury, the rate of the job performed prior to the injury will be maintained on the new job the employee performs and for which the rate is lower. Such protection will be effective for a period not to exceed nine months. Rate increases will not be granted to these persons until such time as their protected rate was equal to or less than the rate of the job.
Injury at work shall not result in the loss of any seniority rights and the employee(s) concerned shall be reinstated to their former position provided the injury has not resulted in a physical handicap to do their former job. If an employee is unable to perform his job as a result of physical injury at work the employee shall be given the opportunity to train for another position providing there is a position available and he is capable of performing the work according to the Company's Doctor.
8.05(a) - Any employee who is laid off shall be retained on the seniority list for a period of 12 months. If he is requested to return to work during this period, he shall forfeit hisseniority unless, within 3 daysafterthe date of the written request to the address on file with the Company, he notifies the Company of his intention to return to work and, within 10 days after the date of the request,reports to work. However, if he is incapacitated from proven illness or injury at the time of such request or becomes so during the ensuing 10 days, Clause 8.04 of this Article will apply. In the event of a lay-off for regular employees beyond the 12 month period, it is understood that this period may be extended as mutually agreed between the Company and the Union.
8.05(b) - In cases when the Company has to increase it's working force and the seniority list has been exhausted, it will endeavour to hire the additional new employees i t may require from amongst those whose names ( 7 )
have been deleted from the seniority list, according to their prior length of service with the Company.
8.06	- In the case of a demotion, voluntary return to the bargaining unit or abolishment of the position an employee may return to the bargaining unit within six (6) months without losing seniority rights. This section shall not apply to the individuals who were promoted within the period February 14th, 1961 to July 16th, 1973 and they shall retain the right to return to the bargaining unit with the seniority they had acquired at the date of their transfer. However, these individuals shall have no bumping rights and shall return to a vacant position.
8.07 -	After April 1st, 1996, all employees hired shall be regular employees.
ARTICLE 9.00 ■ PROMOTIONS, TRANSFFRS, LAY-OFFS, RE-HIRINGS
9.01	- In promotions, transfers, lay-offs and re-hirings, qualifications and skill being equal, seniority shall be the governing factor.
9.02	- (a) When the Company finds it necessary to increase its regular workingforce or to fill a vacancy in its regularworking force, all suchjob openings will be posted on the plant bulletin boards for three (3)working days andacopy of the postingsentto the Union Office. Such notice will briefly outline the job to be performed, the qualifications required for the job, classification and wage rate. All employees may bid for these openings except employees working in the following classifications: Candy Maker, Mogul Operator, Enrober Operator, Chocolate Room Operator, Panning Operator, Jensen Operator, Solllch Line Operator and Robotic Coordinatorwho are only permittedto bid on a higher ratedjob. The job will be filled on the basis provided in Article 9.01.
( 8 )
Notwithstandingthe content of the preceding paragraph, an employee with five (5) years or more of continuous service with the Company, in the classifications listed above, may bid on lower ratedjobs or equal ratedjobs. If their application is accepted, such an employee will receive the rate for the job at the time of transfer. It is also understood that an employee shall be disqualified from bidding for one (1 ) year from date of transfer.
(b)	Where the job is in operation, the chosen applicant shall be assigned to his new job within fifteen (15) working days after the date he has been notified of his successful application. This time limit may be extended by mutual agreement in order to avoid affectingthe normal operations of the plant.
(c)	Upon request, the unsuccessful applicant(s) will be informed of the reason(s) why they have not been chosen.
(d)	Job vacancies due to illness of short duration, leaves of absence, or vacation need not be posted. However, senior employees able to perform the work will be given first choice of a higher paid classifications their department, provided no employee on an equal or higher rated job is available. Short duration means a period of 30 days or less.
(e)	No posting shall be required for any job opening which the Company expects to remain in effect for less than thirty (30) days. If such temporary job openings should subsequently become permanent, or exceed thirty (30) days, the job posting procedure shall apply, but such application shall be without retroactive effects.
(f)	Where openings occur in a job within forty-five (45) days after that particular job has been first posted, the job opening need not be reposted but shall befilledfrom
( 9 )
the qualified employees who have bid on the posting or reposted.
(g)	The Company may fill job openings temporarily before or after posting until all applications have been considered.
(h)	An employee who bids for a job vacancy and is accepted shall be disqualified from bidding for six months from the date of acceptance, except for higher paidjobs.
9.03	- Any employee who feels that he has been unjustly dealt with in any promotion, transfer, lay-off or rehiring may have recourse to the grievance procedure set out in Article 6.00 of this Agreement. In no event shall there be discrimination.
9.04	- Whenever a reduction of the working force is necessary, employees shall be laid off in accordance with seniority. Union officials and Shop Stewards will be notified prior to the layoff, with a list of those employees to be laid off.
9.05	- For seniority purposes, a lay-off shall be considered to be more than one (1) shift's duration.
9.06	- When employees are transferred to another department and are informed on the previous day, they will work the hours of the new department. However, if employees are transferred without notice on the previous day, they will work their normal hours for that day.
9.07	- Employees on shift work will be given the opportunity to choose the shift they prefer on the basis of seniority. Once the choice has been made, this choice will be irrevocable for the duration of the shift period unless openings occur due to illness or injury.
9.08	- The Company will provide employees with a weeks notice of a change in their shift schedule. However, in circumstances where unscheduled changes must occur, employees will receive a minimum of 24 hours notice. Scheduled days off will not be included in the 24 hours notice.
ARTICLE 10.00- DISCIPLINE
10.01	- The right to discharge, or otherwise discipline employees shall remain at the discretion of the Company, except that there shall be no discharge or disciplinary action without just cause and such action subject to the grievance procedure.
10.02	- The normal procedure in disciplining employees shall be firstly to verbally warn the employee and to recordthis warning on the employee's record card. Secondly, to issue a written warning and to furnish a copy to the Department Steward and a copy to the Chief Steward. A repetition of the offence or another offence by the same employee automatically involves suspension. The length of such suspension is to be at the discretion of the Plant Manager or his delegated Manager, but it is not to exceed one week. A further repetition may automatically involve discharge or suspension on the first offence. This of course is subject to the grievance procedure. Where a discharge or suspension is involved, a Shop Steward shall be called in to be present at the interview between the employee and the management representative. The Shop Steward shall be informed of the suspension or discharge prior to the interview.
10.03	- Three (3) months after the issuing of a formal verbal warning the warning so given for the purpose of this section shall be automatically cancelled. Six (6) months after the issuing of a first written warning, the warning likewise will be automatically cancelled if no
(11)
further disciplinary action has been committed. In cases where the Company has given a third disciplinary warning which involves suspension, such third disciplinary notice shall be automatically cancelled after twelve (12) months.
10.04	- Whenever an employee is discharged, the Company shall immediately notify the discharged employee in writing of his discharge and the reason thereof.
10.05	- The Company shall pay any discharged employee all his wages in full as soon as possible after his discharge and after any liability owed by him to the Company has been paid or satisfied.
10.06	- A complaint by an employee that he had been unjustly discharged shall be considered a grievance. In processing such a grievance the first step of the grievance procedure shall be dispensed with and the grievance shall be submitted in writing directly to the Company's Plant Manager or his designated representative within three (3)working days after the discharge.
10.07	- Any employee found through the grievance procedure or arbitration to have been unjustly discharged shall, within three (3) working days after the date of settlement or the decision of the arbitration, be reinstated in his former positionwith full compensationfor time lost and all seniority rights.
ARTICLE 11.00 - PAID HOLIDAYS
11,01	- New Year's Day, Heritage Day, Good Friday, Easter Monday, Queen's Birthday, Dominion Day, Dartmouth Natal Day, Labour Day, Thanksgiving Day, Remembrance Day, Christmas Day and Boxing Day shall be consideredpaid holidays during the term of this Agreement.
(12)
11.02	- To be eligible to receive payment for a holiday designated in lieu thereof -
(a)	A probationary employee shall have worked at least five (5) working days during the thirty (30) calendar days immediately preceding the general holiday, and
(b)	All employees shall have worked the working day immediately preceding and immediately following the holiday. Exceptions to the latter requirement will be made when an employee is absent on either or both of the said shifts only because of verified personal illness, death in his immediate family or if he has been given permission by his Supervisor or his designated superior to be absent.
11.03	- Pay for holidays will be at the employee's regular hourly rate multiplied by one-fifth of the number of hours in the employee's regular work week.
11.04	- Except in emergencies employees shall only be requested and not compelled to work on paid holidays.
11.05	- When an employee is required to work on a paid holiday, or any part thereof, the Company shall (in addition to any pay to which the employee is entitled) pay the employee at the rate of double time for the time worked on such holiday.
Overtime at the rate of triple (3) his hourly rate will be paid to an employee for any hours worked beyond eight (8) hours on a paid holiday.
11.06	- When a paid holiday falls on Saturday or Sunday, it shall be observed on the Friday or Monday by agreement between the Company and the Union.
11.07- Employeeswho are laid off from December 17th to 25th, shall be paid for Christmasand Boxing Day.
ARTICLE 12.00 - VACATIONS
12.01	- Vacation with pay will be granted in accordance with the following scale:
(a)	1 year’s service 2 weeks vacation
(b)	5 year’s service 3 weeks vacation
(c)	10 year’s service 4 weeks vacation
(d)	18 year’s service 5 weeks vacation
(e)	25 year’s service 6 weeks vacation
(f)	30 or more years of service - $300 payable annually Dec,1st.
Employeesservice with the Company at December31 st of the year in which vacation is taken shall be the measure of employee vacation entitlement.
12.02	- Pay for vacation referred to above will be at 2 percent per week of vacation, of the employee's gross wages in the previous calendar year. Vacation pay will be paid on a separate cheque.
In the case of sickness duly recognized by the Group Insurance Plan or in the case of accident by the Worker's Compensation,the Company shall calculate a regular week of 40 hours, for each week lostdue to the above reasons, in order to calculate the vacation pay entitlement.
When an employee who has three (3) or more weeks vacation entitlement, and is absent due to extenuating circumstances, then the employee may be allowed to use an excess vacation day to be paid for the absence, and it will not be recorded on his card as an absent day.
The employee will endeavour to give as much advance warning as possible under the circumstances.
12.03	- Where the Company does not close the plant for vacation purposes or a vacation period, vacations will be granted on the basis of seniority by department, with senior employees being given the first choice of vacation dates. The Company shall maintain sufficient employees by department who are qualified to do the work.
The vacation period will be from April 1st to March 31st of the following year for selection purposes. Employees in making vacation selection shall first select two (2) weeks in order of seniority by department. No employee shall be denied two (2) weeks vacation during the period between June 15th and September 15th when making their first selection.
Subsequent selections will be made by seniority in departments until all vacation is determined.
A vacation notice will be posted no later than March 1 st in each department and choice of available dates will be made by April 1st. A final irrevocable list will be determined by April 15th. Selection will be done by seniority in the Supervisors office.
An employee who does not exercise this selection by the above dates or who does not notify the Company, will forfeit the right to select using their seniority and must take whatever is available as mutually agreed to with their Supervisor.
An Employee incapable of taking his/her vacation during the period provided for according to the schedule established as perthe provisions of Article 12 by reason of illness, accident or work related accident or other
(15)
legitimate reasons having occurred prior to the beginning of his/her vacation period, may postpone his/her vacation to a later date. Howeverthe new vacation period shall not displace another employee from his/her vacation period. Employees shall notify management as soon as possible of any changes required.
12.04	- Should any employee's service terminate he shall receive at the termination of his services with the Company compensation to be calculated on the basis of 4%, 6%, 8%, 10% or 12% depending on the employee’s entitlementunder Sections 12.01 and 12.02.
12.05	- All deductions normally made from an employee's regular pay shall be made from his vacation pay.
12.06	- Employees of the Service Department and any other scheduledto remain on duty during the period the plant is shut down may be allowed their vacation at some time convenient to the Company. All such employees entitled to three or more weeks vacation may have three of their vacation weeks consecutively.
12.07	- Employees shall not be allowed to carry over vacation allowance from one year to the next except in extenuating circumstances.
12.08	- When the plant is shut do'wn for vacation purposes, any employee not entitled to vacation pay under Rule 12.02 of this Article shall be required to take time off without pay unless the Company is able to provide work for him during that period.
ARTICLE 13.00 - ABSENCES
13.01	-The Company shall grant leave of absence to an employee where the Company is satisfied that the employee is unable to work because he is sick or (16)
otherwise disabled. The Company may grant leave of absence in any case when it deems leave appropriate.
13.02	- Leave of absence shall be granted by the Company to Union Delegates and Officers to attend Union Conventions provided that notice in writing of two weeks in advance of such Union Conventions is given by the Union to the Company. Such leave shall be without pay and without loss of seniority.
13.03	- The provisions of the Labour Standard Code of Nova Scotia with respect to leave of absence for maternity and upon adoption of a child, shall apply hereto. A further leave of absence without pay may be granted to an employee. Total accumulated leave shall not exceed six (6) months.
13.04	- When the partner, child, father, mother, grandchild or guardian of any employee dies and such employee has completed his probationary period with the Company, such employee shall not, because of absence from work, lose any pay duringfour (4) consecutive working days following the death. The day after the funenal shall be the last working day in the period of bereavement.
When the brother, sister, father-In-law or mother-In-law of any employee dies and such employee has completed his probationary period with the Company, such employee shall not, because of absence from work, lose any pay during three (3) consecutive working days following the death. The day after the funeral shall be the last working day in the period of bereavement. When the Grandparents, Brother in Law, Sister in Law of any employee dies and the employee has completed his pro-bationaryperiod with the Company, he shall not, because of absence from work, lose any pay during two (2) consecutive working days following the death.
(17)
The day after the funeral shall be the last day in the period of bereavement. The employee shall notify the Company of any such death. Extenuating circumstances shall be considered by the Company.
If the bereaved period falls on the employee's scheduled days off, the first day of bereavement will start on the Monday for the entitlement days.
13.05	- Effective April 1, 1991, the weekly indemnity coverage will be 66 2/3% of your regular weekly earnings, subject to the current maximum established by the Unemployment Insurance Commission for the first twenty-six (26) weeks of disability.
Where an employee who had at least one (1 ) year's seniority with the Employer, is off work and has satisfactorily demonstrated that he is entitled to benefits under the Sickness or Accident Plan or the Workers' Compensation Act, the Employer shall advance to such employee the weekly benefit for which the employee has demonstrated entitlement and the employee shall assign the employee's right to equivalent payment under the Sickness and Accident Plan or Workers' Compensation Act. The employee shall further endorse over to the Employer and deliver the cheque for such amount immediately upon receipt by the employee.
13.06	- An employee who loses time from his regularly scheduled work as a result of Jury Service or witness shall have the difference between the pay received for such Service and his straight time earnings (8) hours in a day, (40 hours in a week) he would have received if it were not for the Service, made up by the Company, subject to the following conditions:
(a)	Advance notice in writing to his supervisor of 48 hours.
(18)
(b)	Proof of Service satisfactory to the Company.
(c)	After release from serving, the employee shall report to work the following day.
(d)	An employee on the night shift shall not be required to report for work on the night of the same day on which he serves or on the night before where he has a reasonable expectation of so serving.
13.07	- The Company will provide a Long Term Disability Plan to a limit of 50% of Base Wages to age 65.
The Company shall pay $150.00 once every two (2) years towards the cost of an employee's glasses provided that they have safety lenses.
ARTICLE 14.00-WAGES
14.01	- Subject to the provisions of this Article 14.00 and the provisions of article 18.00, the wages set out in Appendix “A& C of this Agreement shall be paid during the term of this Agreement.
14.02	- The Union and the Company recognize that there are instances where certain employees are receiving a rate in excess cf the job rate, and this higher rate shall be considered a red circle rate. In no case will this special red circle rate establish a higher rate for the job, but employees presently receiving them shall continue to receive these red circle rates so long as they continue to performtheir presentjobs. When an employee istrans-ferred or demoted he shall retain the red circle rate differential but when he is promoted he shall retain only the excess, if any, over the higher rate. Employees with red circle rates shall receive all the general wage adjustments.
(19)
14.03	- All new employees shall be paid ten (.10 cents) an hour less than the hourly rate for their jobs during their probationary working period. No employee will be paid an hourly rate that is less than the current Nova Scotia Minimum Wage.
If it is found that a former employee who returns to the Company as a probationaryemployee, and performs satisfactorily the same job classification, such employee will be paid the rate of the job prior to the completion of their probationary period at the discretion of their supervisor.
14.04	- When shift work is performed a shift differential shall be paid as follows for all hours worked on such shifts:
1 st year 2nd/3rd year 3 - 11 P.M. - Afternoon Shift	.45	.45
11 - 7 A.M. - Night Shift	.50	.55
14.05	- Employees shall be paid on a weekly basis by cheque and all deductionsbe plainly marked thereon. If errors occur, all monies in excess of $10.00 per pay chequewill bepaidinthatpayweek. Amounts lessthan $10.00 will be corrected in the following week.
ARTICLE 15.00 - HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
15.01	- Hours of work, overtime and miscellaneous other matters shall be governed by the regulations set out in Appendix “B" of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 16.00 - BULLETIN BOARDS
16.01	- The Union may post notices of Union meetings and other activities on a bulletin board provided for that
(20)
purpose and conspicuously placed. Such notices shall have the prior approval of the Company's Personnel Manager or a designated representative.
ARTICLE 17.00 - MEDICAL EXAMINATIONS
17.01	- Every applicant for employment shall, at Company expense, furnish the Company with a medical certificate. Every employee shall, at the Company's request and expense, submit to further medical examinations by medical examiners selected by the Company, but the Union may, if it thinks that an injustice may have been done, request any employee to submit, at the Union's expense, to medical examinations by medical examiners selected by the Union.
ARTICLE 18.00-GENERAL
18.01	-Any employee presently receivingmore than the hourly rate provided for his job by this Agreement shall suffer no decrease through the signing of this Agreement and any employee enjoying working conditions more favourable than those stipulatedin the Agreement shall continue to enjoy them.
18.02	-Any employee who is temporarily transferredfrom his regular job to another job with a higher rate shall be paid the higher rate for all the time worked on such job, but an employee who is temporarily transferred from his regular job to another job with a lower rate shall continue to receive his regular rate for all time worked on such other job.
18.03	- The Unionshall have the privilegeof negotiating with the Company, rates for new types of work not established by this Agreement and such rates, when agreed upon, shall be effective from the date such new type of work is commenced.
(21)
18.04	- The Company shall classify all employees and furnish a copy of the classification to the Union. Before making any amendments to the classifications the Company shall discuss such amendments with the Union.
18.05	- In addition to the number of Mogul Operators required for the Moguls being operated, one spare operator shall be carried.
18.06	- Each regular employee who ceases to be a regular employee of the Company by reason of the permanent closing of a department, or the introduction of labour saving equipment, will be entitled to a severance allowance. The size of this allowance will be related to years of service as shown in the schedule below:
Years of Service
Less than 5 years 5 ■ 6 years 7 - 8 years 9-10 years 11-12 years 13-14 years 15-16 years 17-18 years 19-20 years 21-22 years 23 - 24 years 25 - 26 years 27 + years
Weeks of Pay
0 weeks
3	weeks
4	weeks
5	weeks
6	weeks
7	weeks
8	weeks
9	weeks
10	weeks
11	weeks
12	weeks
13	weeks 18 weeks
18.07	-Any employee who is transferred because of displacement by reason of the permanent closing of a department, or by the introduction of labour saving equipment will have his original pay rate maintained for a period of 18 months on any new job which is accepted, and for which the rate is lower. Only employees who (22)
have 5 years or more of continuous service would be eligible for this wage security.The rate maintained would be an out of line rate on the new job.
18.08	- Any employee who feels that work assigned to them involves physical effort beyond their capacity, may bring the matter immediately to the attention of their supervisor. If their supervisor is unable to resolve the matter satisfactorily within 2 working days, the supervisor shall refer the matter immediately thereafter to the Production Manager.
18.09	- The Company and Union agree that they will not threaten, or unlawfully discriminate against an employee for reasons of that employee's pregnancy, age, marital status, disability, sex. sexual orientation, race, creed, colour, national origin, political affiliation with a legitimate political party or for exercising any right under this collective agreement. The parties also agree that no employee should be subject to harassment.
18.10	- When an employee Is scheduled to work or is transferred to another department for a period of one week or more, the employee will be placed on the overtime list for that department, while maintaining status in their own department.
18.11	- When an employee is first hired, they will be placed on the seniority list, in alphabetical order for those group of individuals, in order of start date and be assigned a number.
Their position on the seniority list shall not change for the employee regardless if the employee has a change of last name in the future,
(23)
ARTICLE 19.00-SAFETY
19.01	- The Company and the Union agree to make all reasonable and proper provisions for the continued high standards for the health and safety of all employees. This will be done through adherenceto the Occupational Health and Safety Act of the Province of Nova Scotia.
19.02	- All employees will be given an allowance of $100.00 for safety shoes, or $150.00 for safety boots each year. This allowance will be paid by separate cheque on December 1st, Entitlement will be prorated over a twelve (12) month period.
ARTICLE 20.00 - MECHANIZATION
20.01	- The Company shall have the right to modify production methods or introduce mechanization changes. As soon as feasible after any such decision is made prior to implementation of such decision, the Company shall notify the Union officials. It will always be the Company's intentionto notify and involve the Union officials of forthcoming changes.
20.02	- Both parties undertake to use every reasonable effort to prevent, limit, or minimize any hardships resulting from such changes upon the employees to avoid any reduction in earnings.
ARTICI 21.00 - DURATION OF THIS AGREEMENT
21.01	- s Agreement shall be in full force and effect
from the IstDavof April. 1996 to the3isU0ayntMarch I999, both inclusive and shall remain in Tutnorce and effect from yearto year thereafter unlessone of the parties hereto notifies the other, in writing, within the period of not more than one hundred and fifty (150) days prior to the automatic renewal date of its intentionto revise or
(24)
amend this Agreement or conclude a new Collective Agreement.
This Agreement shall remain in full force and effect until a new collective agreement is signed.
IN WITNESS THEREOF THE PARTIES HAVE HERETO SIGNED:
FOR THE UNION:	WITNESS:
Carolann Hurley	Sandra Whitehead
John MacPherson	James Russell
Paula Ritchie Wendy Craig Marie Naugle Mona Thompson Theresa MacKinnon Christine Lashombe R. Brocklehurst Wade Mombourquette Shelley LaPierre
FOR THE COMPANY:	WITNESS:
George Roy David MacLellan
(25)
APPENDIX 'A
SCHEDULE OF WAGE RATES
	April 1 1996	April 28 1996	April 1 1997	April 1 1998
Group 1 Candy Maker Mogul Operator Enrober Operator Chocolate RoomOperatoi Sollich Operator Jensen Operator Panning Operator Robotic Coordinator Warehouse Person Packaging Stockperson	12.71	13.06	13.36	13,70
Group 1A Woodman Operator	12.3;	12.72	13.01	13.34
Group 2 Mogul Feeder	12.15	12.50	12.78	13.10
Group 3 Candy Maker Mogul Operator Enrober Operator Chocolate RoomOperato Sollich Operator Jensen Operator Panning Operator Robotic Coordinator Mogul Receiver Cherry Spinner/ Sander Operator Racine Utility Person Enrober Trucker Machine Cleaner	12.09	12.44	12.72	13.04
(26)
	\pril 1 1996	tpril 28 1996	*pril 1 1997	^pril 1 1998
Group 5 Mogul Trucker Card Wash Trucker Bridge Mix Trucker/ Sugar Hopper	11.90	12.25	12.53	12.84
Group 6 General Helper Circle Machine Operator Packaging Charge Hands Q.A. Inspector/ Flavour Room Attendant	11.77	12.12	12.40	12.70
Group 7 Packaging Inspector Quality Control Inspector Cartoner Operator (Langen) Racins Operator Wrapper Operator-Auto Wrap	11.56	11.91	12.18	12.48
Group 6	11.44	11.79	12.06	12.36
Enrober & Stock Card Person Enrober Feeder Enrober Packer Card Wash Operator Packaging Belt Attendant Box Machine Operator Cello Operator Wrapper Feeder				
Group 9 Mogul Trayer	11.31	11.66	11.92	12.22
(27)
Enrober Pre Feeder Racine Feeder& Receiver Packaging Packer Packaging Cartoner Packaging Belt Worker Wrapping Machine Packer General Helper
The above rates will include the following:
1.	Across the board increase of .35 cents per hour effective April 28, 1996.
2.	Acrossthe board increase of 2.25% effectiveApril 1
1997.
3.	Acrossthe board increase of 2.50% effectiveApril 1
1998.
(28)
APPENDIX “B”
HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME REGULATIONS No Guarantee Of Work
1.	The Company does not guarantee to providework for any employee during regularly assigned or any other hours, but will continue to endeavour to provide a full work week.
Normal Work Week
2.	Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, the normal hours of work shall be 8 hours per day and 40 hours per week. The Company may at any time determine that any employee shall work regularly assigned hours that are less than the normal work week. For definition purposes, the payweekshall be from 11 P.M. Saturday to 11 P.M. the following Saturday.
When a situation arises that it becomes necessary to send employees home, the Company will provide employees with a minimum of four (4) hours pay.
Employeeswho have already begun to work will receive pay for the hours they have worked, plus an additional four (4) hours, to the maximum of eight (8) hours total.
Employees who have been contacted prior to the beginning of their shift will not be entitled to this four (4) hours as outlined above.
3.	Because of the nature of the industry certain preparatory work must be completed before the production lines can be operated and thus, the starting hours of employees engaged in such preparatory work must vary.
(29)
Overtime
4A. When scheduled overtime is required, the Company shall notify employees on the previous day. This shall not apply for replacement for shift workers who do not report for work, nor in the case of emergency overtime.
4B. Except in cases of emergency an employee shall not be required to work overtime in excess of 2 nights per week during the period Monday to Friday inclusive or 8 hours within the above period. Preparatory work shall be included in these provisions.Any employee may volunteer to work beyond these limits.
Overtime Pav
5.	Overtime pay at one and one-half his normal hourly rate shall be paid to any employee who works in excess of hisregular8 hoursina day, or on his regularly scheduled day off.
6.	Overtime at one and half times his hourly rate shall be paid to any employee who works on the 6th day of his work week. Overtime at twice his hourly rate shall be paid to any employee who works on the 7th day of his work week.
Employees who are required to work beyond eight (8) hours of their 6th day shall receive twice their hourly rate for those hours.
Employees who are absent during part of their normal work day throughout the week, will not be affected in their rate of pay for the 6th and 7th Day of Overtime.
6B. When an employee is called back to work after he has left the Company property, he shall be paid a minimum of four (4) hours pay, at time and one-half his (30)
regular rate of pay, or pay for the hours worked at the appropriate rate, whichever is greater. This provision shall not apply where the employee is called in to work prior to his regular shift and continues to work his regular shift.
6C. All hours worked after 16 continuous hours shall be at double time. After16 hourswork all overtime shall be voluntary.
6D. All regular spare employees will be included in the overtime within the job classificationthey hold as a spare.
Unauthorized Working
7.	No employee shall be paid, either on straight time or on an overtime basis, for any work done or any time shown on his time card before his regularly assigned starting time or after his regularly assignedfinishingtime unless on each occasion his department supervisor has initialled his authorization on such time card.
Lunch
8.	Employees shall be allowed a lunch period of twenty (20) minutes without pay daily. The Company may vary or stagger this period to suit production requirements. Employees shall not be required to take their lunch periods before three (3) hours after the start of their shift and commence the same before the completion of five (5) hours. Except in the event of a breakdown lasting more than one (1) hour, the Company may request the Service Department employees to work until the repair has been effected.
9.	Clause8 of the Appendix shall not apply to shiftwork and shiftworkers shall be allowed 20 minutes to have
their lunch on the job.
10.	To any employee required to work two (2) hours or more of overtime following completion of his regular shift, the Company shall pay a lunch allowance of $7.00.
The allowance shall be paid during their overtime shift, where possible, or their next following shift.
PunchinaThe Time Clock
11.	All employeesshall be requiredto punch a time clock when reporting for work, returning from any meal or on the completion of overtime, or if leaving work early.
12.	An employee who punches in once a week up to 3 minutes late will not incur any penalty subject to Clause 7 of this Appendix. However, an employee shall only be paid thereafter for the time punched on his time card.
13.	Repeated early or late punching shall cause an employee to be subject to discipline as set forth in Article 10.00 of this Agreement.
14.	Department supervisors shall check all time cards after starting time and require any employee who has failed to punch their time card to do so then.
15.	Any employee on the afternoon shift or night shift who is unable to report for work must notify the Company at least 4 hours prior to the start of their shift.
16.	The shift work hours for continuous operation jobs shall be:
Day Shift	7:00 A.M. to 3:00 P.M.
Afternoon Shift 3:00 P.M. to 11:00 P.M.
Night Shift	11:00 P.M. to 7:00 A.M.
(32)
or any 8 hour shift mutually agreed upon by the Company and the Union.
The Company and the Union have come to an understanding at the bargaining table in that the Company will endeavour to provide employees with a weeks notice of a change in their shift schedule.
17,	No employee shall punch other than his own time card. Failure to comply with this Clause may be cause for dismissal.
18,	In recognition of the difficulty imposed upon Management and members of the Union through failure of some employees to comply with working schedules, employees shall give prior notice to the Company whenever he expects to be absent from work. If any employee absents himself from his regular scheduled work without giving sufficient prior notice to that effect, he shall not return to his work until he has reported to the Plant Superintendent or his representative. It is not the intention of this absenteeismClause to impose any additional hardship on employees for absence due to circumstances beyond their control. Repeated violation of this Clause may result in a formal warning, followed by a suspension and finally discharge for additional violations.
Rest Period
«,
19,	All departments shall be entitled to two (2) twelve (12) minute rest periods per day in addition to the lunch break. Such rest periods to be arranged so as not to interfere with the efficiency of production. Rest periods in Packing Departmentsare to be eight (8) minutes and four (4) minutes respectively in the morning and eight (^minutes and four (4) minutes respectively in the afternoon. All employees are required to be in work position and ready to start work at the end of the break pe-
(33)
riod. The Company agrees to allow time for travel to and from the rest area.
20.	When any shift work employee or an employee connected with shift work operation is required to work overtime, he shall be allowed a twelve (12) minute break prior to working overtime plus a twenty (20) minute paid lunch break for overtime of four (4) or more hours duration. Such periods to be at the discretion of the Department Supervisor so as not to interfere with the efficiency of production.
Training
21.	The Company and the Union recognize the need to train employeesin work responsibilities, when they have received a job posting.
The Company shall provide the initial training of five (5) consecutive days.
All such employees will serve an initial training period of twenty (20) working days for groups 5-10 inclusive, where the rate of pay will be.10 per hour less than the rate of the job. Employees in groups 1-4 will serve a period where the .10 per hour less than the rate of the job will occur for the forty-five (45) working day probationary period.
It isalso understoodthatthese employees: Candy Makers, Mogul Operators, Enrober Operators, Chocolate Room Operators, Panning Operators, Jensen Operators, Solllch Line Operators, and Robotic Coordinators will have a training period of eighteen (18) months. The employee beingtrained may request an evaluation prior to the completion of the eighteen (18) month period and if the requirements for the job have been successfully demonstrated, the normal rate of the job will be paid. (34)
The employee being trained will in any case be subject to review at nine (9) monthsand will receive 50% of the differential betweenthe training rate and the normal rate for the job at that time.
Wash Up Time
22,	A five minute wash up time will be permitted at the end of the shift for the Packaging Department employees. This entitlement applies to the expiration of the regular shift only and is not to be included in any overtime considerations.
Uniforms
23.	Employees will be given four (4) uniforms. Worn and torn uniforms will be turned in for replacement when required.
(35)
APPENDIX C’
SCHEDULE OF WAGE RATES- MAINTENANCE
Group 3
Plant Cleaners
Group 13
Machinist
Mechanic 1st Class Pipe Fitter Boiler Operator Welder
Group 14
Mechanic 2nd Class Storeperson-Maintenance
Group 15
Packaging Specialist
Group 16
Mechanical Specialist
Group 17
Building Service Specialist
\pril 1 1996
12.09
15.29
14.13
19.09
17.49
17.49
tpril 1 1998
13.04
16.40
15.18
20.38
18.70
18.70
The above will include the following:
1.	Across the board increase of .35 cents per hour effective April 28, 1996.
2.	Across the board increase of 2.25% effective April 1, 1997.
3.	Across this Board increase of 2.50% effective April 1, 1998.
(36)
Apprenticeship Program- Schedule of Wage Rates
Group 16 Hours	%	April 1, 1996	April 28, 1996	April 1, 1997	April 1, 1998
4001 -5000 hrs	80	14,00	14.35	14.67	15.04
5001-6000 hrs	85	14,87	15.22	15.56	15.95
6001 -7000	90	15.74	16.09	16.45	16.86
7001 -8000	95	16.62	16.97	17.35	17.79
8001 -	100	17.49	17.84	18.25	18.71
To get to the next step of full rate, the employee must have completed 8000 hours and have their journeymen ticket, or, have a minimum of ten (10) years equivalent
(37)
Appendix C
1.	Tool Allowance
An allowance of $150.00 for replacement of broken and worn tools purchasedbythe Company will be provided.
2.	Travel Allowance
Meetings, training programs, equipment inspections or any other job related assignments which keep an employee away from home overnight will be compensated for travel time, meals, plus any time spent on site but will not exceed eight (8) hours per day. Saturdays and Sundays are treated the same as weekdays.
An employee travelling on Saturday or Sunday for assignment scheduled to begin on Monday will be compensated for the days spent away from home.
The Company agrees to provide a $25.00 per day incidental allowance.
3.	A washer and dryer will be placed in the Maintenance Department for the cleaning of heavily soiled uniforms and will be available to all employees to use for that purpose.
(38)
Hershey Canada Inc.
A Hershey Foods Company/
Compagnie deproduits alimentaires Hershey
April 28, 1996
Sandra Whitehead BCTU, Local446 14 McQuade Lake Crescent Suite 201
Halifax, Nova Scotia B3S IB6
Jim Russell Teamsters, Chauffeurs, Warehousemen Helpers & Mlsc. Workers Local927 19 Alma Crescent Halifax, Nova Scotia B3N 2C4
Subject: Direct Deposit
This letter will confirm the understanding reached during our deliberations with regards to the payment of wages for all employees.
The Company will introduce a system of direct deposit for payroll, no later than January 1,1997. This system will be availableto employees on a voluntary basis.
G.W, Roy Plant Manager
GWR/ya
C:\WPWIN60\WPDOCS\LTRINT.DD
375 Pleasant Street, Dartmouth, Nova Scotia 32Y 4N4 Telephone [902] 469-2470 Fax [902] 469-7169
(39)
Hershey Canada Inc.
April 28, 1996
Sandra Whitehead BCTU, Local 446 14 McQuade Lake Crescent Suite 201
Halifax, Nova Scotia B3S IB6
Jim Russell
Teamsters, Chauffeurs, Warehousemen Helpers & Mlsc. Workers Local 927 19 Alma Crescent Halifax, Nova Scotia B3N 2C4
Banking of Overtime
The purpose of being able to “bank a portion of overtime hours is to allow employees the opportunity to cover unpaid days throughout the year.
Employees who work overtime hours would be allowed to set aside or “bank an unlimited amount in the year. This time could be taken off in equivalent eight (8) hour days (maximum 5 per year) when it is mutually agreed betweenthe employee and the supervisor.
Banked hours may not be carried over into the next calendar year and any hours not taken by December 1st will be paid out at that time.
Employees wishing to bank overtime will sign a form at the end of the week advisingthe Company of the number of hours the Employee wishes to bank, and the number of hours the employee wishes to be paid for.
G.W. Roy Plant Manager
GWR/ya
C:\WPWIN60\WPDOCS\LTRI NT. DD
375 PleasantStreet, Dartmouth, Nova Scotia 32Y 4N4 Telephone (902] 469-2470 Fax [902] 469-7169
(40)
Hershey Canada Inc.
Marchs, 1996 Sandra Whitehead B.C.T.U. Representative
Dear Sandra,
Subject: Proposed Article 18.12 submitted at Negotiations February 26 1996
I have contacted Verna Siteman atKDN in Burnside to discuss Geraldine Alexander’s concern with lack of lunchroom and washroom facilities at the warehouse.
Verna was only too happy to accommodate our request. Unknown to me there is, in fact, a separate female only washroom in the warehouse. Verna told me that she would give Wayne Maclnnls instructions to show Geraldineor any other Hersheyfemale employeewhere this washroom is when they are requiredto work in the warehouse. Also, Verna extended an open invitation to Geraldine to use the lunch room In the back where the office area is. This lunchroom is equipped with microwave and refrigerationfacilities which Geraldine or any other Hershey employee is welcome to use.
I trust that this will resolve any concern that Geraldine or any otherfemale Hershey employee may have when visiting KDN.
Yours truly,
Dave Fraser
Human Resources Manager Hershey Canada Inc.
Molrs Plant DF/ya
White-01.let
(41)