AGREEMENT BETWEEN:
THE BRITISH COLUMBIA SUGAR REFINING COMPANY LIMITED VANCOUVER DIVISION, VANCOUVER, B.C.
AND
RETAIL WHOLESALE UNION LOCAL 517
Term of Agreement: March 1st, 1992 to
February 28th, 1995
l
TABLE OF CONTENTS	Page
ARTICLE I - DEFINITION
Section 1.-Employee....................... 9
Section 2, -Disturbance .................. 9
Section 3.-Pronoun....................... 10
ARTICLE II -UNION RECOGNITION
Section 1. - Bargaining Agency......
Section 2, -Union Activities........
Section 3. - Bulletin Boards........
Section 4. - Collective Agreement Binding
10
10
10
10
ARTICLE III -UNION SECURITY Section 1. -MembersofUnion. .
Section 2. -Union Dues......
Section 3. -Supervisors.....
11
11
12
ARTICLE IV - MANAGEMENT
12
ARTICLE V- HOURS OF WORK
Section 1. - Standard Work Hours...
Section 2. -Overtime Paid..........
Section 3. -Statutory Holidays.....
Section 4. - Stats, on Saturday & Sunday
Section 5, - Call-in Pay...........
Section 6. - Working Through Lunch . .
Section 7. - Change in Hours.......
Section 8. - Rest Periods..........
Section 9. - Shift Premiums........
Section 10. -Emergencies...........
13
13
15
16 16 16 17 17
17
18
ARTICLE VI -WAGES
Section 1. - Rates/Classifications (SeeApp. “A’). ... 18
Section 2. -Temporary Change of Job............ 18
Section 3. - Establish/Delete Classifications.. 18
Section 4. -Rates For Employees Whose
Jobs Become Redundant................ 19
Section 5. - Rates While Training.............. 19
Section 6.-W.C.B, Cases........................ 19
3
Table of Contents— Continued
Page
ARTICLE VII- SENIORITY
Section 1. - Two Seniority Lists...........
Section 2. - Lay-Offs and Re-hiring...... .
Section 3. -Promotions.....................
Section 4. -Job Vacancies..................
Section 5. -Probationary Period............
Section 6. -Loss of Seniority..............
Section 7. -Notification of Hiring & Discharges
20
21
21
22
23
23
24
ARTICLE VIII - LEAVES OF ABSENCE
Section 1. -Requests.......................... 24
Section 2. - Maternity/Parental Leave......... 24
Section 3, -Parental Leave.................... 26
ARTICLE IX -VACATIONS
Section 1. -General..............
Section 2. -Vacation Entitlement.
Section 3. -Definition -Winter Months Section 4. -Vacation Pay.........
.. 26 .. 27 .. 28 . . 29
ARTICLE X - SAFETYAND HEALTH
Section 1. - Industrial Health & Safety Committee ... 29
Section 2. -General Provisions................... 29
Section 3. - First Aid Attendants................ 29
Section 4. -W.C.B. Regulations................... 30
Section 5. -Safety Footwear Refund............... 30
Section 6. -Transportation for Medical Aid.......30
ARTICLE XI - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
Section 1.-No Work Stoppage.................... 30
Section 2. -Grievance Committee................ 31
Section 3.-Names of Committee.................. 31
Section 4. - Steps of Grievance Procedure......31
Section 5. -Time Limits........................ 33
Section 6. -Power of JBoard of Arbitration.....34
Section 7. - Sub-Section 1 of Section 96
Industrial Relations Act of B.C......34
Section 8, -Employee Notice oflncident.........34
4
Table of Contents —Continued	Page
Section 9. - No Verbal Warning............. 34
ARTICLE XII - DISCHARGE CASES
Section 1. - Reinstatement..................34
Section 2. -Complaint in Writing............35
ARTICLE XIII - GENERAL
Section 1. -Weekly Indemnity.................
Section2.-GroupLife Ins......................
Section 3. - M.S.R...........................
Section 4. - M.S.P. re Retired Employees and M.S.A.
Section 5. -Coveralls & Smocks...............
Section 6. - Pay Days........................
35
36 36 36 36 36
ARTICLE XIV - JURY DUTY PAY
Section 1.-Amounts of Pay................... 37
Section 2. - Return to Work................. 37
ARTICLE XV- IABOUR DISPUTES
Section I.-Strike Bound Firm........... 37
ARTICLE XVI -COMPASSIONATELEAVE.......... 38
ARTICLE XVII -SEVERANCE PAY
Section 1. -Advance Notification............. 38
Section 2. - Re-Training..................... 39
Section 3.-Severance Pay..................... 39
ARTICLE XVIII - UNION BUSINESS
Section 1. - Leave for Union Business........ 39
Section 2. -Pay Reimbursement For Leave...... 41
ARTICLE XIX - PENSION PIAN
Section 1. - Effective Date...................41
Section 2.-Contributions (1973).............. 42
Section 3.-Contributions (1976).............. 42
Section 4. - Surplus & Deadlock.............. 45
ARTICLE XX - EARLY VOLUNTARY
RETIREMENT SUPPLEMENT Section 1.-Supplement........................ 46
5
Table of Contents — Continued	Page
ARTICLE XXI -REQUESTS FOR NEW EMPLOYEES . . 47
ARTICLE XXII - PREPAID DENTAL, PLAN
Section 1. - Contributions Administration .47
ARTICLE XXIII -ACCUMULATED TIME OFF Section 1. - A.T.O............
48
ARTICLE XXIV - HEARING AID, EYEGLASS AND PREPAID PRESCRIPTION DRUGS Section 1.-Coverage Provided.................... 49
ARTICLEXXV-COMPANY/UNION MEETINGS.............50
ARTICLE XXVI - DURATION OF AGREEMENT
Section 1. -Dates............................ 50
Section 2. -Anniversary Date..................51
Section 3. - Sub-Section 2 Section 66 of
Industrial Relations Act........... 51
APPENDIX “A’ - JOB CLASSIFICATIONS
Section 1, -Operating.........................52
Section 2. -Mechanical....................... 54
Section 3.-Mechanical Trades..................55
Section 4.-Helper.............................56
Section 5. - First Aid Certificate &Bonus.....56
Section 6. - Optional by Job Classification...57
Section 7. -Personal Preference.............. 57
Section 8.-Tools............................. 58
Section 9.-Tool Insurance.................... 58
APPENDIX “B” - HOURS OF WORK, APPENDIX “C” - SPARES.....
60
62
APPENDIX “D” -APPRENTICES
Section 1.-Definition.......................... 64
Section 2. -Number of Apprentices.............. 64
Section 3.-Apprentices’Wages....................64
Section 4. -General Principles..................65
6
Tableof Contents — Continued
Page
Section 5. -Joint Company/Union
Apprenticeship Committee.....
Section 6. - Entry to Program - New Apprentices, . Section 7. -Schedule of Training for Apprentices,
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING Pension Plan..............
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING Outside Contracts......................
MEMORANDUM Unloading Sugar Boats
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
Power House Engineers, Shift exchange.
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING Implementation of new A.T.O. &
Vacation arrangements..
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING Grievance Procedure/Single Named Arbitrator . .
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING Amendment to Article 13 -
Repayment of Sick Leave Benefits....
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING Agreement to Repay Sick Leave Benefits.
INDEX ..................................
66
66
68
70
71
73
74
77
79
81
83
85
HIS AGREEMENT entered into this 8th day of April, 1992. tTWEEN:
THE BRITISH COLUMBIA SUGAR REFINING COMPANY LIMITED, VANCOUVER DIVISION
(hereinafter referred to as the “Company”) OF THE FIRST PART;
ND:
RETAIL WHOLESALE UNION LOCAL517
(hereinafter referred to as the “Union”) OF THE SECOND PART;
TTNESSETH:
WHEREAS it is the intent and purpose of the parties hereto that this Agreement will promote and improve industrial and economic relationships between the Employees and the Company and will set forth basically herein ther-ates of pay, hours of work and conditions of employment to be observed between the parties hereto.
OW, THEREFORE, THIS AGREEMENT WITNESSETH:
Article I DEFINITION
ectionf Employee
The term “employee” as used in this Collective Agree-ent includes all male and female employees of the Com-rny paid on an hourly or salaried basis, determined by the abour Relations Board of British Columbia, as a unit apropriate for collective bargaining and defined in the aard’s Certification of May 22, 1947, and as varied by the aard and the Industrial Relations Council.
ection2. Disturbance
Should a disturbance of any kind arise at the plant, the atchmen shall continue to perform their regular duties.
9
Section 3. Pronoun
The masculine pronoun shall include the feminine.
Article II
UNION RECOGNITION
Section! BargainingAgency
The Company recognizes the Union as the sole collecth bargaining agency for the employees, as defined in Article and agrees to negotiate with the Committee selected by th Union, looking toward a peaceful and amicable settlemei of any differences that may arise between the Company an the Union.
Section 2. Union Activities
There shall be no discrimination against any member < the Union because of Union activities.
Section 3. Bulletin Boards
The Company shall grant the Union the right to plac bulletin boards in agreed upon places in the Plant for th purposes of posting Union notices, copies of this Collecth Agreement and official papers. All such material must b posted only upon the authority of officially designated re] resentatives of the Union. It is further agreed that these bu letin boards will not be used for disseminating political c advertising matter of any kind not pertaining to the Unioi
Section 4. Collective Agreement Binding
(a)	This Collective Agreement shall be binding upon tb parties hereto, their successors, administrators, exec\ tors and assigns. In the event the entire operation c any part thereof, which is covered by this Collecth Agreement is sold, leased, transferred or taken over i sale, transfer, lease, assignment, receivership or ban ruptcy proceedings, or another Limited Company iss< up to perform any of the functions previously pe
10
formed by the Company covered herein, such Operation shall continue to be subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement for the life thereof.
(b)	If at any time the Company intends to sell, transfer or lease the entire operation, or any part thereof, it shall give notice of the existence of this Collective Agreement to any purchaser, transferee, lessee, assignee, etc., of the operation covered ty this Collective Agreement or any part thereof. Such notice shall be in writing with a copy to the Union, not later than the effective date of sale.
Article III
UNION SECURITY Section! Members of Union
All employees now members of the Union shall as a condition of employment remain members of the Union. All new employees, as a condition of employment shall become and remain members of the Union upon completion of five (5) days service with the Company. All employees as a condition of employment shall pay dues.
Section 2. Union Dues
(a)	Upon written authorization ty the employee, the Company agrees to deduct by the 15th day of each month out of the wages due to such employee, the monthly Union dues and intiation fees of such employee.
All Union dues and initiation fees so deducted shall be remitted ty the Company to the Secretary of the Union within seven (7) days after the date of the said deduction together with a list of the names of the employees from whom deductions were made.
(b)	The Company agrees to submit deductions and names in alphabetical order on forms to he supplied by the
11
Union providing an explanation for each employee for
whom deductions were not made, i.e.
-	Laid off temporarily
■	- Retired
-	Deceased
-	Voluntary termination
-	Discharged
Section3. Supervisors
It is recognized that Supervisors are excluded from the provisions of this Collective Agreement and accordingly it is improper for them to do the kind of work which is normally done by employees covered by this Collective Agreement.
It is also recognized that for the practical and efficient operation of the plant there are occasions when a supervisor must help. Such occasions must be temporary in nature and must not result in the displacement or exclusion of employees under this Collective Agreement.
Article IV MANAGEMENT
The management of the refinery and direction of the employees including the right to hire, suspend, discharge, dismiss for proper cause, to maintain discipline and efficiency of employees and to relieve employees from duties because of lack of work are vested exclusively in the Company, providing however, that this will not be used for purposes of discrimination against employees because ofUnion activities.All matters concerning the operation of the Company’s business not specifically dealt with herein shall be reserved to the Company and be its sole responsiblity. It is understood that Company powers in this Section cannot be exercised in any way inconsistent with or in violation of any of the provisions of this Collective Agreement.
12
Article V
HOURS OF WORK
Section-!. StandardWork Hours
The Company and the Union agree that the standard work day shall consist of eight (8) hours and the standard work week shall consist of forty (40) hours, Monday to Friday inclusive, as set out in the Flours of Work Appendix. A week is defined as a period from 2300 hours Saturday to 2300 hours the following Saturday.
Section 2. Overtime Paid
(a)	Overtime rates of two (2) times the regular rate of pay shall be paid for all time worked in excess of the eight (8) hours per day or forty (40) hours per week.
(b)	Exceptions to the above Section 1 and Section 2 (a)are: Watchmen and Power Fiouse employees whose services are regularly required on weekends, will be paid the regular rates of pay for work done on Saturday and Sunday, but in no case will they work more than eight (8) hours per shift or forty (40) hours per week without overtime rates being paid. In addition, all regular shift work commences at 2300 hours Sunday.
(c)	Work schedules will be posted each week by 1400 hours Thursday and shall cover a three-week period. Changes for the first week’s schedule can be made without paying overtime penalty rates up to 2300 hours of the Saturday prior to the commencement of the schedule, if required because of absenteeism. The second and third week’s schedules are posted for information only and changes can be made at any time without penalty.
It is understood each employee’s work schedule shall provide forfivc (5^consecutive shifts with the same starting and stopping times.
Ifan employee’s shift is changed, all hours worked on
13
the first shift will be paid at the overtime rate of two (2x) times the regularjob rate. The employee’s shift maybe changed back to the regular shift during the week with no additional penalty.
Overtime shall be paid for all hours worked in excess of or outside the scheduled hours posted as above.
It is understood an employee shall be paid overtime for a shift change as outlined above and if as a result of such change works in excess of forty (40) hours per week or eight (8) hours per day, overtime premium shall apply for all hours in excess.
Exceptions to 2 (c) above:
(i)	If shift change is from straight time to regular time or vice versa within the same shift, no overtime will be paid.
(ii)	Five (5) consecutive starts will not apply to production employees for the first two shifts on plant start-ups and the last shift prior to plant shutdown.
(iii)	The first day of employment for all newly hired employees will be day shift for orientation purposes. The shift of the employee(s) may be changed to afternoon shift the following day for the remainder of the week without paying an overtime penalty rate.
(iv)	During any period when a boat is not being unloaded employees scheduled to work on raw sugar boat unloading may request to change from boat shift operating hours to regular shift operating hours (see Appendix “B”). Such a change in shift scheduling will not entitle the employee to the overtime rate of pay.
(d)	When two employees with consent of the Company agree to exchange working time, there shall be no overtime paid to either employee for time so worked.
14
Section3. Statutory Holidays
(a) Two (2x) times the regular rate of pay shall be paid for all work performed on Saturday and Sunday, except as provided for in Section 2 (b),
(b) The following are declared Statutory Holidays:
-	New Years Day	- Labour Day
-	Good Friday or	- Thanksgiving Day
-	Easter Monday	- Remembrance Day
-	Victoria Day	- 24 December
-	Dominion Day	- Christmas Day
-	B.C. Day	- Boxing Day
and two (2) others if so proclaimed by the Federal or Provincial Government.
When required to work on any one of the preceding statutory holidays, overtime rates of two (2x) times the regular rate of pay will be paid for all hours worked plus eight (8) hour statutory holiday pay at the regular rate of pay.
When not required to work on any one of the preceding statutory holidays, employees shall be paid for eight (8)hours at their regular rate of pay.
Boat Crew, Watchmen, and Power House employees whose services are required on statutory holidays will be paid at overtime rates of two times the regular rate of' pay for all hours worked plus the choice of:
(i)	An additional day's regular pay.
(ii)	An additional day off with eight hour's regular pay at a time to be mutually arranged between the employee and the company.
(c)	Employees off work on leave of absence for a period of one hundred and twenty (120) hours or more during which a statutory holiday occurs will not receive pay for the statutory holidays.
15
(d)	In order to receive holiday pay under the provisions of subsection (b), a regular employee must work on his last scheduled shift the week previous to the holiday and on his first scheduled shift following the holiday unless he has received leave of absence.
(e)	A regular employee laid off work in the week of, or in the week immediately preceding the week in which a statutory holiday falls and is not called back to work within thirty (30) days after lay-off, will not be entitled to statutory holiday pay.
(f)	When a holiday listed in Section 3 (b) falls on an employee's regular day off or during the time they are on annual vacation, statutory holiday pay will not be paid at that time but the employee will be given another day off with pay at the straight time rate of eight (8) hours at their rate of pay at the time the holiday is taken. It is understood that this day off will be taken at a time when it does not interfere with the operation or maintenance of the plant.
Section 4. Stats, on Saturday& Sunday
When a holiday mentioned above in Section 3 falls on a Saturday or Sunday, and it is customarily observed on a Friday or Monday, such Friday or Monday shall be considereda holiday under the terms of this Collective Agreement,
Section 5. Call-in Pay
All employees called in to work and receiving less than four (4) hours work shall be paid for four (4) hours.
Section6. Working through Lunch
(a)	In the case of an emergency, should an employee be asked to forego his meal period, work performed after five (5) consecutive hours without a meal period shall be paid for at the rate of two (2) times the regular hourly rate. It is understood that no one shall be called
16
hack after the supper period for less than two (2) hours service or pay equivalent thereto.
(b)	Employees working on straight time shifts shall be responsible to fit in their meal break within three to five hours after their starting time. If, by the end of four hours, the employee thinks that he will be unable to do this, he shall advise his supervisor of this fact and a meal break scheduled during the fifth hour. If requested to work beyond five hours without a meal break, then Section 6 (a) would apply.
Section 7, Change in Hours
The Company and the Union Committee shall by mutual agreement only arrange for any changes in the starting and stopping time of hours of work and for meal period.
Section 8. Rest Periods
All employees shall he entitled to a paid fifteen (15) minute rest period during each half of their designated shift. Any employee who reports for work more than 1 M> hours after their designated starting time will not be entitled to a paid fifteen (15) minute rest period during that half shift. It is further understood an employee is entitled to a paid fifteen (15) minute rest period for each two (2) hours of overtime work.
Section 9. Shift Premiums
(a)	Employees working on an afternoon shift shall receive a shift bonus of sixty cents (600) per hour and employees working on a night shift shall receive a shift bonus of eighty cents (800) per hour.
(b)	An afternoon shift is defined as a shift commencing at 1:00 p.m. or later and ending later than 7:30 p.m.
(c)	Power House employees will receive an additional shift bonus of seventy-five cents (750) per hour for all hours worked between 2300 hours Saturday to 2300 hours Sunday
17
Section 10. Emergencies
In the case of an emergency, if an employee is recalled to work while on vacation or accumulated time off, he will be paid two (2x) times his regular rate of pay for all hours worked during this recall period. The cancelled vacation and accumulated time offpaywill not be paiduntil an equal number of days vacation or accumulated time off are taken at a re-scheduled date.
Article VI WAGES
Sectionl. Rates/Classilications (SeeApp. "A")
Wages and classifications of work are attached and known as Appendix “A” and are effective as of the dates set forth in the said Appendix.
Section 2. Temporary Change of Job
When an employee is temporarily removed from his regular work and placed on other work for the Company’s convenience, he shall be paid his regular rate of pay or the rate of the other work after one (1) hours work at the higher rated job, whichever is greater. It is also agreed that regardless of age or sex, equal pay for equal work will prevail if the work ordinarily carried out can be performed without further assistance.
Section 3. Establish/Delete Classifications
(a)	When newjob classifications are established as deemed necessary and advisable by the Company, the Union shall be advised. A rate shall be set by the Company, or the Company shall furnish additional help to compen-sale for additional labour involved. If after a trial period of thirty (30) days, the Union deems the adjustment made by the Company to be unsatisfactory, the dispute shall be settled pursuant to the Grievance Procedure provided.
18
(b)	When the deletion of existing job classifications are deemed necessary or existing job classifications require changes because of changes in the character of duties and responsiblities, as deemed necessary by the Company, the Union shall he advised of the contemplated change in writing. Thereafter, a meeting will be arranged between the Company and the Union to discuss such deletion or change. It is understood that the Company will make every effort to make such change or deletion with the least amount of clislocation amongst the employees. If the Union deems the deletion or change to he unsatisfactory, the dispute shall be settled pursuant to the Grievance Procedure herein provided.
Section 4. Rates Ebr Employees Whose Jobs Became Redundant
It is understood any employee whose job classification becomes redundant shall retain his rate until:
(a)	Another job above basic is available. In that event, he must make application and if he qualifies he will be awarded thejob. If he does not make application he will revert to the base rate.
(b)	If a job above basic does not become available, he will retain his rate until such time as the base rate equals or exceeds the redundantjob classification.
Section 5. Rates While Training
It is understood an employee shall retain his current rate of pay while training for job vacancy for which he applied and was awarded.
Section 6. W.C.B. Cases
The Company agrees to pay full days wages on the date of an accident for employees having Workers’ Compensation Board cases.
19
Article VII SENIORITY
Section 1. Two Seniority Lists
(a)	There shall be two (2) Seniority Lists of Company employees, one for the production employees and one for the mechanical department except where a lay-off of more than twenty-five (25) employees occurs at which time all employees shall revert to one (1) Seniority List of the Company which shall include all classifications, regardless of crafts and departments. Six (6)copies of said lists to be supplied by the Company to the Union every six (6) months, listing all employees covered by the Collective Agreement. Seniority List to contain the names, classifications, and original date of employment of each employee.
It is understood and agreed that should an employee transfer from the mechanical seniority list to the production seniority list, he shall maintain his total seniority for lay-offs and benefits, however, he shall only use the seniority accrued on the production seniority list for the applications in the production department.
It is further understood and agreed that should an employee transfer from the Production Seniority List to the Mechanical Seniority List, the same shall apply.
(b)	Should a reduction in the number of employees within a job classification take place, the employee so affected will be given a choice of one of the following options:
(1) Of remaining in the employ of the Company in
anotherjob classification provided he has the necessary seniority.
(ii) Taking a lay-off, and retaining his seniority as per Article VII - Seniority, Section6 (d) and (e).
It is understood that this selection must be made at the time of change and should an employee elect Sec-
20
tion 1 (b) (ii) he will only be entitled to recall if a vacancy occurs within the j o b classification for which he elected to take the lay-off.
(c)	When two (2) ormore employeesare hired on the same day, determination of seniority for those employees will be in succession as their names arc drawn from a hat. The seniority determined by the draw shall be effective from date of draw and onward.
Section2. Lay-Offs and Re-hiring
(a)	Length of service shall be the deciding factor governing lay-offs and re-hiring after lay-offs except where by mutual agreement between the Company and the Grievance Committee the senior employee does not have the capabilities to perform the work to be done or in the case of the mechanical department, the senior employee does not have the qualifications.
(b)	If mutual agreement is not reached under the above procedure, then the matter shall be referred to the Company’sLabour Relations Representative and a Representative of the Union. If mutual agreement is still not reached, then seniority shall prevail.
(c)	When a lay-off occurs the names of the employees to be laid off will be submitted to the Chairman of the Grievance Committee. The Company shall provide at least two (2) weeks notice or two (2) weeks pay in lieu of notice of lay-off to all employees who have completed their probationary period.
The exceptions to the above shall be causes beyond the control of the Company. In the case of disagreement, the Union shall have the recourse through Article XI -Grievance Procedure.
Section 3. Promotions
(a)	Promotions (other than those covered in Appendix “C”) for which a rate higher than basic is paid will be
21
made by the Company on the basis of seniority, taking into consideration qualifications, merit, fitness and ability. If the most senior applicant is not selected, the Company will advise the Union President of its decision prior to the confirmation posting. Should the Union President be unavailable for any reason, a senior Union Officer will be advised in his stead. Such promotions will be considered to be on a temporary basis for thirty (30) days during which the claim, if any, of other employees will be reviewed by the Company and Grievance Committee in an equitable manner and thereafter thejob will be confirmed as posted. Failure to agree shall constitute a grievance tobe taken up under Article XI - Grievance Procedure of this Collective Agreement.
(b)	Iti sagreed that any promotion, demotion or case of discipline for cause will be a matter for discussion between the Company and the Union Grievance Committee, if the Union Grievance Committee consider it is necessary, in such a case, the Committee will give the Company written notice of the matter to be discussed.
Section 4. Job Vacancies
(a)	When a job vacancy higher than basic occurs, the job shall be posted 6n the bulletin board forthree (3) working days. Applicants wishing to apply for the position shall make a written request in duplicate, one copy to the Company and one copy to the Vice-President of the Union. Thereafter, within three (3) working days, the Company shall make an appointment. When a senior employee is absent such appointment and all related appointments shall b,e considered temporary, until the senior employee returns and has had an opportunity to apply as set out below in (b).
(b)	Within five (5)working days of their return to work, employees absent from the Company when a job is posted shall have the right to apply for anyjob posted in
22
their absence provided they are absent for a period of not greater than nine months.
(c)	Employees who are awarded a posted job are expected to continue in thatjob for no less than six months unless they are unable to continue in thatjob for medical reasons or unless they are awarded another posting. An employee who continues in the awardedjob beyond five days of training and then voluntarily relinquishes the job in less than six months, shall not be eligible to apply for another posted job for six months after the date he voluntarily relinquished the awarded job.
Section 5. Probationary Period
Employees shall he regarded as temporary for the first thirty (30) working days of employment and during this period employees acquire no seniority or re-employment rights and may be terminated at the Company’s discretion. After such period of employment, the names of such employees shall be placed upon the Seniority List in order of date of original hiring. It is understood probationary employees have full rights to the Grievance Procedure of the Collective Agreement.
Section 6. Loss of Seniority
Seniority shall be lost if an employee:
(a)	Voluntarily leaves the employ of the Company, or
(b)	Is discharged, or
(c)	Is absent without leave for a periodgreater than five (5) working days, or
(d)	After lay-off fails to report for work for five (5) working days after being recalled.
The Company shall forward a registered letter to the last known address. If the person fails to report for work, he shall forfeit all seniority rights.
23
(e)	Has been laid off in excess of one year. In such cases, his chances of re-employment will be reviewed after one year by the Company, the Union and the individual concerned. At that time, it will be established to either delete the person's name from the Seniority List and pay him his full severance pay entitlement, or to extend his seniority retention to a maximum of twenty-four (24) months from original date of lay-off.
Section 7. Notification of Hiring & Discharges
Names of employees, hired or discharged, and of all employees who have left the employ of the Company of their own accord shall be submitted to the Acting Secretary of the Union each month.
Article VIII
LEAVES OF ABSENCE
Sectionl. Requests
(a)	Leaves of absence extending over a period of more than four (4) weeks must be given in writing and in no case issued for more than three (5)months, however, this may be extended upon agreement between the Company and the Union.
(b)	If leave is requested in conjunction with vacation or for extended holiday purposes, such request must be made before February 1st of that year.
Section 2. Maternity/Parental Leave
(a) A female employee shall be granted maternity and parental leave in accordance with the Employment Standards Act, but with the following modifications included.
An employee, on her written request, accompanied by a certificate of a medical practitioner stating that the
24
employee is pregnant and estimating the probable date of birth of the child, is entitled to a maternity/parental leave of absence from work, without pay, for a period of twenty-six (26) consecutive weeks. The unpaid leave of absence will commence eleven (11) weeks prior to the date of indicated date of birth.
The Company may upon request of the employee with the written approval from a medical practitioner, defer to the commencement of maternity/parental leave. However, commencement of the leave must take place on or before the birth oft he child. In that event the total of up to twenty-six (26) weeks unpaid leave of absence would still apply.
If the employee indicates she intends to return to work prior to the completion of the twenty-six (26) weeks leave, the employee must furnish the Company with the certificate of a medical practitioner stating that the employee is able to resume work.
The Company shall grant an employee a leave of absence without pay to a maximum of thirty (30) weeks under this section providing she is a claimant of parental benefits and receives the parental benefits under the Unemployment Insurance Act.
The Company may require an employee to commence leave of absence where the duties of the employee cannot reasonably be performed because of the pregnancy and to continue the leave of absence until the employee provides a certificate from a medical practitioner stating that she is able to perform her duties.
Adoption leave provisions for a female employee are covered under the following Section 3: Parental Leave.
25
Section 3. Parental Leave
The Company shall grant a leave of absence, without pay to a maximum of twelve (12) weeks to a male employee who is a claimant of parental benefits under the Unemployment Insurance Act. The period of leave of absence shall be no longer than the period during ryhich the male employee is receiving the parental benefits. ^
Article IX VACATIONS
Section 1. General
(a)	The qualifying period for vacations granted in the calendar year are for service surrendered during the period ending December 31st of the previous calendar year.
(b)	It is understood that vacation periods will be given to suit the requirements of the Company’s operation and may or may not be given in one consecutive period.
(c)	Employees who become entitled to an additional week of vacation on the vacation entitlement schedule (eg. from 2 to 3 weeks vacation after 3 years of service) shall be eligible to take the increment week immediately after passing their personal anniversary date. If the anniversary date falls in December the increment week must be taken by March 31st of the following year.
(d)	Except for increment years provisions in Section 1 (c) current years vacation entitlement must be taken by 31 December of that year or by the end of the Christmas non-melt period whichever is later. It is understood that if an employee is absent due to illness or on compensation, any vacation entitlement owing will be carried over to the next year, but must be taken before return to work unless a doctor provides a written recommenda-
26
tion that an employee returns to work on a trial basis for a reasonable duration.
(e)	In the year which contains an employee’s normal retirement date it is not necessary to pass the individual’s anniversary date if such anniversary date would qualify that employee for additional increment entitlement.
(f)	Anniversary date is the original date of employment for current service.
(g)	All requests for vacation weeks submitted ty the cut-off date indicated on the vacation request form will he verbally responded to by the last working day of the follow ing month.
Section 2. Vacation Entitlement (a) Vacation Entitlement
Vacations will be granted employees on the following basis:
Cumulative Years	Vacation
(b) Vacation Pay
(i)	Employees who have 40 cumulative working days or less of absence in the qualifying period due to sicknessor accident, Leave of Absence, Lay-off up to 40 cumulative working days in a qualifying
of Service
Entitlement
Up to 1 year
1 day per month or fraction thereof to the nearest hour to a maximum of 2 weeks.
27
period or who are on strike or locked out or a combination of the above will receive vacation pay based on the following formula: acation Pay = Vacation entitlement weeks x 40 hours x hourly rate.
(ii)	Employees who have more than 40 cumulative working days of absence in the qualifying period due to sicknessor accident, Leave of Absence, Layoff in excess of40 cumulative working days in a qualifying period or who are on strike or locked out or a combination of the above will receive payment based on the following formula:
Vacation pay =
Vacation Entitlement Weeks x 40 hours x hourly rate x factor
Factor = 250 minus days absent in excess of 40 days minus lay-off days
in excess of 40 days______________
250
(iii)	If an employee’s vacation pay is reduced according to the formula in Section 2 (b) (ii) the employee has the choice of taking his full annual vacation entitlement or working the equivalent of the unpaid portion of hisvacation entitlement, (to the nearest full day) for which he will be paid at the appropriate rate(s).
(iv)	For the purpose of this section, Leave of Absence shall not include the short term Leave of Absence for Union Business as per Article XVIII, Sectionl (b).
Section 3. Definition ■ Winter Months
(a) It is understood that employees who qualify for four, five, six, seven or eight weeks vacation will take three weeks in the summer and the balance during the winter months as defined in Section 3 (b). If, however, for a special occasion an employee requests his vacation be taken consecutively, reasonable consideration will be given by the Company.
28
(b) For purposes of the foregoing, winter months run from the 1st day of October to the 30th day of April inclusive.
Section 4. Vacation Pay
Before leaving for their vacations, employees shall be entitled to their vacation pay for the vacation period upon which they are embarking.
Article X
SAFETY AND HEALTH
Section*!. Industrial Health & Safety Committee
Ca) The Union shall be entitled to four (4) representatives to the Industrial Health and Safety Committee. The Union shall, at its discretion, provide alternate representatives. This Committee shall meet not less than once monthly and discharge its duties in accordance with the Workers’ Compensation Board Regulations.
(b) When the secretary of the Health and Safety Committee is a Union member, the Company will provide such individual with the facilities and sufficient time during working hours to write the minutes of the monthly meeting.
Section 2. General Provisions
The Company shall continue to make the necessary provisions for the safety and health of its employees at the Plant during the hours of their employment and also maintain clean rest rooms and eating areas. Protective devices, wearing apparel and other equipinerit necessary to protect its employees from injury shall be provided ty the Company.
Section3. First Aid Attendants
It is agreed that First Aid facilities and qualified First Aid Attendants shall be provided as stipulated in the Workers’ Compensation Board Regulations.
29
Section4. W.C.B. Regulations
The Company and the Union agree to abide by all provisions of the Workers’ Compensation Board Industrial Health and Safety Regulations.
Section 5. Safety Footwear Refund
It will be mandatory to wear Safety Footwear. The Company will reimburse employees an amount up to sixty dollars ($60.00) per contract year on presentation of proof of purchase of safety footwear. Such footwear shall conform to the Workers’ Compensation Board standards in that the soles and heels shall be of a material that will not create a danger of slipping and shall provide adequate protection for phalange (toes) and metatarsal (foot) areas in the form of steel toes or other material providing similar protection. Employees who require exemption for medical reasons must provide medical evidence from an orthopedic specialist.
Section 6. Transportation for Medical Aid
When an employee is sent from the plant for medical aid by a qualified First Aid Attendant transportation will be provided by the Company at no cost to the employee. If, within 24 hours the employee is sent home or returns to the plant, the Company will reimburse the cost of this transportation on presentation of a receipt.
Article XI
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
Sectionl. No Work Stoppage
Either of the parties to this Collective Agreement, without stoppage of work, may grieve any matter where a difference arises between the parties relating to the dismissal or discipline of an employee, or to the interpretation, application, operation or alleged violation of this Collective Agreement including a question as to whether or not a matter is arbitrable.
30
Section 2. GrievanceCommittee
There shall be a Grievance Committee consisting of live (5) employees designated by the Union, who will be afforded such time off as may be required to attend the necessary meetings with the Company. Members of the Grievance Committee who are required as witnesses at Arbitration Hearings shall also be afforded time off with pay.
A memorandum of such grievance and decision shall be kept, one copy to be retained by the Company, one copy to be retained by the Union and one copy to be posted on the Bulletin Board.
Section 3. Namesof Committee
The Union agrees to advise the Company of names of' members of the Grievance Committee in writing as elected or appointed.
Section4. Steps of Grievance Procedure
FIRST STAGE: INITIAL COMPLAINT
The employee with or without a Shop Steward shall bring to the attention of his immediate Supervisor the incident which has resulted in the complaint. A decision by the Supervisorwill be rendered within 10 working days.
SECOND STAGE: INVESTIGATION
If the grievance is not satisfactorily settled at the previous stage the employee with or without a Shop Steward or a Refinery Union Official shall refer the matter to either the Process Superintendent, Packaging and Warehouse Superintendent or Mechanical Superintendentfor investigation. The investigation will bejointly conducted by the appropriate Superintendent and a Shop Steward or a Refinery Union Official and a decision by the Superintendent will be rendered within 10 working days.
31
THIRD STAGE: MANAGER, PERSONNEL & INDUSTRIAL RELATIONS INVESTIGATION AND RESPONSE
If the grievance is not satisfactorily settled at the previous stage the grievance shall be submitted in writing to the Manager, Personnel & Industrial Relations or in his absence, to the Refinery Operations Manager by the Chairman of the Grievance Committee. The written grievance will state the precise nature of the grievance, act or acts complained of, date of occurrence, the clause or clauses of the Collective Agreement considered violated and the manner in which the grievance can be resolved.
Union Policy Grievances shall be submitted in writing to the Manager, Personnel& Industrial Relations at this stage.
Company Policy Grievances shall be submitted in writing to a Union Official at this stage.
The receiver shall respond in writing to the other party within 10 working days of receipt of the written grievance.
FOURTH STAGE: COMPANY/UNION REVIEW COMMITTEE
If the grievance is not satisfactorily settled at the previous stage, the Company and Union Grievance Committee along with a Union Representative will meet and attempt to reach a satisfactory settlement.
The grievor and/or the Shop Steward who was initially involved in the grievance may be present for the first part of the meeting. This part of the meeting is to clarify the facts giving rise to the grievance. After this part of the meeting the grievor will leave and the Company and Union Grievance Committee will then attempt to reach a satisfactory settlement.
32
FIFTH STAGE: ARBITRATION
(See Letter of Understanding)
If the grievance is not satisfactorily settled at the previous stage the grievance shall he submitted to Arbitration.
The Company and the Union shall first consider the use of the single arbitrator to hear the grievance. However, either party has the right to refer the matter to an Arbitration board to which the Company will nominate one arbitrator and the Union will nominate one arbitrator. Nominations shall he made within ten (10) working days.
The arbitrators shall then attempt to nominate an impartial arbitratorwho shall act as Chairman of the Arbitration Committee. Failing to agree upon such impartial arbitrator within a further ten (10) working days the Minister of Labour shall be requested to appoint such impartial arbitrator. The majority decision of the arbitrator(s) shall he final and binding on both parties to the Collective Agreement.
Section 5. Time Limits
In the event of an unresolved complaint, either party to this Collective Agreement, must submit the grievance in writing in accordance with the Third Stage of this procedure within sixty (60) days actually worked from the said incident. After submitting the grievance in writing the grievance must he processed through to a settlement or submission of the grievance to Arbitration within a further ninety (90) days actually worked inclusive of the specified time limits prescribed in the fourth 8c fifth stages of the Grievance Procedure. If either party fails to act within the specified time limits, or within an agreed upon extension, it will be deemed that that party has withdrawn or abandoned its position and that the position of the other party has been established, except in a case where the Union or the Company withdraws the grievance. Any time limits under this
33
Article may be extended by the mutual agreement of both parties. It is understood that the time limits prescribed by this Collective Agreement are substantive and not procedural.
Section 6. Power of Board of Arbitration
It is distinctly understood that any Single Arbitrator or Board of Arbitration is notvested with the power to change, modify or alter this Collective Agreement in any of its parts, the Single Arbitrator or Board may, however, interpret the provisions of this Collective Agreement.
Section 7, Su b-Section1 of Section 96
Industrial Relations Act. of B.C.
The Union and the Company agree that Sub-section 1 of Section 96 of the Industrial Relations Act of British Columbia, shall only be implemented where mutually agreed by the Company and the Union.
Section 8. Employee Notice of Incident
No incident shall be used in any disciplinary action or proceedings against an employee unless said employee has had notice in writing that the incident was being noted for the record. Upon the written request by an employee, he shall be given a written transcript of his discipline file when disciplinary action concerning the employee is initiated.
Section 9. No Verbal Warning
No verbal warning shall be used in disciplinary actions or proceedings unless the employee is made aware at the time of the incident that the incident is being noted for the record. Employees are entitled to have a Union Representative present with the mat any disciplinary meeting with the Company.
ArticleXII
DISCHARGE CASES Section 1. Reinstatement
In the event an employee be discharged or laid off and he
34
believes that he has been unjustly dealt with, such discharge or lay-off shall constitute a case arising under the method of adjusting grievances herein provided. Written reason for discharge will be provided to the employee within 10 working days, of his discharge. In the event it should be decided that an injustice has been dealt an employee, the Company shall reinstate such employee and pay full compensation for time lost, or any lesser amount as may be agreed between the Company and the Union, or as may be determined by a Board of Arbitration.
Section2. ComplaintinWriting
All complaints about unjust discharge or lay-off must be submitted in writing, within sixty (60) days or longer by mutual agreement between the Company and the Union from the date of the discharge or lay-off provided the Grievance Committee has been advised of same by the Company.
Article XIII GENERAL
Section 1. Weekly Indemnity
The Company agrees to continue the following for the duration of the Collective Agreement and no changes will be put into effect unless mutually agreed upon between the Company and the Union.
The Company agrees to pay the cost of the following for the employees who have completed three (3) months continuous service with the Company. The Company will provide a Sick Leave Plan with existing levels of benefits through an outside carrier.
Weekly benefit - 80% of classified hourly rate Length of coverage - thirty-nine (39) weeks 1st day accident 2nd day sickness
35
In the eventan employee isoffwork ten (lO)working days or longer he shall receive payment for the first day.
Section2. Group Life Insurance
Amount equal to twice the employee’s current yearly classified hourly rate plus A.D.& D. coverage in an equal amount. At normal retirement an employee shall receive a $2,000.00 paid up policy, effective March 1st, 1982.
Section 3. M.S.P. Medical & Extended Health
The Company agrees to pay one hundred percent (100%) of the cost of M.S.P. Medical coverage andM.S.A. Extended Health Care Plan for all eligible employees after thirty (30) days continuous service.
New employees already covered by a recognized B.C. Medical Plan will be entitled to continuous coverage provided this coverage can be arranged.
Section 4. M.S.P. re Retired Employees& M.S.A.
The Company will pay the cost of Medical Services Plan of B.C. for all retired employees.
The Company will pay the costof M.S.A. Extended Health Care Plan for retired employees from date of retirement to and including their 65th birthday. (This coverage will cease on the last day of the month following 65th birthday).
Section 5. Coveralls and Smocks
The Company agrees to supply and launder and all employees agree to wear either coveralls, shirt and pants or smocks of which three (3) pairs will be available each year.
Section 6. Pay Day
Pay day every second Wednesday, if a statutory holiday falls on a Monday, Tuesday or Wednesday, pay day will be Thursday.
36
ArticleXIV JURY DUTY PAY
Section 1. Amounts of Pay
An employee summoned to jury duty or subpoenaed as a witness shall be paid wages amounting to the difference between the amount paid them for jury service and the amount they would have earned had they worked on such days. Employees on jury duty shall furnish the Company with such statement of earnings as the Courts may supply.
Section2. Return to Work
Employees shall return to work within a reasonable period of time. They shall not be required to report if less than two (2) hours of the normal shift remains to be worked. Total hours onjury duty and actual work on thejob in one day shall not exceed eight (8) hours for purposes of establishing the basic work day. Any time worked on the employee’s regular job in excess of the combined total of eight (8) hours shall be considered overtime and paid as such under the Collective Agreement.
Article XV
LABOUR DISPUTES
Section 1. Strike Bound Firm
The Company agrees that in the event of a legal strike amongst the employees of a concern with which the Company is doing business it will not ask, require or in any way force or compel members of the Union to service such a strike bound firm by crossing any established legal picket line(s).
Should a question regarding “hot” goods arise it shall immediately be referred by the Union representative to the Company’s Manager, Personnel & Industrial Relations for joint discussions and consideration.
37
Article XVI
COMPASSIONATE LEAVE
In the event of a death in a regular employee’simmediate family, the employee shall be granted leave of absence as follows:
-	Five (5) days leave with pay for immediate family defined as spouse, children & parent.
-	Three (3) days leaSfe with pay for immediate family defined as sister, brother, mother-in-law, father-in-law, grandchild, grandparents and other persons wholly supported by the employee and residing in the same household.
-	The Company may at its discretion grant compassionate leave in other circumstances.
-	The definition of common-law spouse pertaining to the relationship above, should be a person who has cohabited for a minimum of two years.
Should the funeral for a member of the immediate family take place outside the province, an employee may be given five (5) days leave with pay. In all cases, to qualify for compassionate leave, the employee must attend the funeral and/or memorial service.
Article XVII SEVERANCE FAY
Section 1. Advance Notification
The Union agrees it is the sole right and function of the Company to change methods or facilities and to install equipment of all kinds and to make such other changes in or to its operations as it deems necessary or advisable.
Should the Company decide to install new advanced mechanical equipment,change methods, or close down any
38
of its operations that would result in the termination or layoff of its employee(s), it will give the Union three (3) months advance notice. It is understood the parties shall discuss the question of retraining or the application of severance pay.
Section 2. Re-Training
The Company shall continue the past practice of retraining employees so affected.
Section 3. Severance Pay
No termination pay will be paid for service up to one (1) year.
One-half weeks current earnings will be paid for each of the next four (4) years or fractions thereof.
One (1) weeks current earnings for each year or fraction of a year in excess of five (5)years and up to the actual date of termination.
(a)	The above shall not apply when an employee resigns or is discharged for cause.
(b)	The Company and the Union agree to discuss the principle and application of clause (a).
(c)	After an employee has been laid off longer than one (1) year, the employee’s name shall be deleted from the Seniority Lists and the Company agrees to pay full severance pay in accordance with the above severance pay formula, except as provided for in Article VII, Seniority, Section 6 (e).
Article XVIII
UNION BUSINESS
Sectionl. Leavefor Union Business
(a)	The Company will grant leave of absence without pay
39
for up to two (2) employees who are appointed to the Union Office. The employee who obtains this leave of absence shall return to the Company within thirty (30) calendar days after completion of his term of employ-mentwiththe Union. Itisunderstoodthatanemployee on such leave of absence shall accumulate seniority for a period up to two (2) years. When said employee returns to active employment with the Company, it will be to the same classification held immediately prior to such leave and the Company may reduce the number of employees in the returning employee’s job classification by one employee. Any appointments and related appointments made to fill the vacancy caused by the leave of absence shall be temporary. When the employee returns, all employees holding temporary classifications shall return to their previous classifications.
(b)	The Companywill grant leave of absence without pay to employees who are elected as representatives to attend Union meetings and Union conventions of the Retail Wholesale Union in order that they may carry out their duties on behalf of the Union.
(c)	In order for the Company to replace the employee with a competent substitute, it is agreed that before the employee receives this leave of absence, as set forth in Clauses (a) and (b) above, the Company will be given due notice in writing in the case of (a) twenty (20) calendar days and in the case of (b) by Wednesday of the previous week or sooner. For regular monthly meetings, notice will be given by the Wednesday of the previous week.
(d)	If scheduled to work on a day that Company-Union meetings are held for the purposes of negotiating revisions to the Collective Agreement, up to five (5) members of the Union Negotiating Committee will be
40
granted a day off and paid for eight (8) hours at their regular rate of pay. In the event that a member is scheduled on paid time off he shall be entitled to an alternate day off with pay.
Section 2. Pay- Reimbursement for Leave
It is understood and agreed that employees who are granted leave of absence as per Section 1 (b) of this Article shall be paid by the Company their regular pay and benefits.
The Company will subsequently bill the Local Union for the cost of such wages plus any payroll deductions and other payroll expenses.
ArticleXIX PENSION PLAN
Section 1. Effective Date
(a)	Effective as of the first day of December 1970, the liabilities and assets of the Improved Contributory Pension Plan shall be calculated and grouped into two parts as more particularly set forth in the Letter of Understanding entered into between the Company and the Union under the date of the 16th day of April, 1971.
(b)	When the aforementioned division has been made the Company shall create a new Trust fund with the National Trust Company into which shall be transferred that part of the assets of the Improved Contributory Pension Plan which have been allocated to cover those liabilities which apply to the employees at December 1st, 1970 who were then members of the Improved Contributory Pension Plan and members of the Retail Wholesale and Department Store Union, Local 517, plus those former employees who at that date still had a right to a benefit under that Plan and who were immediately prior to last termination of employment mem-
41
bers of the Union, plus the contingent annuitants and beneficiaries of those employees and former employees. A new Pension Plan shall be established to set forth the rights and benefits of the present members of the Improved Contributory Pension Plan who are included in the group defined in the immediately preceding sentence. The rights and benefits of such members are to be the same as those rights and benefits to which they are entitled under the Improved Contributory Pension Plan at December 1st, 1970 after giving effect to the 25% bonuses declared by the Company in 1970.
(c)	The Company shall guarantee the benefits payable under the terms of the new Plan up to the minimum levels of benefits provided under the terms of the Improved Contributory Pension Plan at December 1st, 1970 after giving effect to the 25% bonuses declared by the Company in 1970.
Section2. Contributions(1973)
Commencing March 1st, 1973, the Company agrees to increase the contributions to seven percent (7%) of his gross earnings from the Company to the Union Pension Plan.
Section3. Contributions(1976)
Commencing with the lstday of February 1976 up to and including 31st of January 1977, the Company agrees to make payments to the Retail Wholesale and Department Store Union Pension Trust Fund for each employee working in job classifications covered by the Collective Agreement at the rate offline percent (9%)of his gross earningsfrom the Company.
Commencing with the lstday of February 1977 and for the duration of the current Collective Agreement between the Union and the Company and any renewals or extensions thereof, the Company shall make contributions to the pen-
42
sion fund at the rate of ten percent (10%)of the employee’s gross earnings from the Company.
The excess of the foregoing Company rates of contribution over the former rate of Company contribution of seven percent (7%) of employee’s gross earnings from the Company, shall be applied toward:
(a)	Reducing the difference between male and female members with respect to the age at which accrued pension credits may become payable without reduction for commencement before age 65 but not earlier than age 60 and/or
(b)	Providing for improvements in pension credits for accrued service with the Company which may include past service credits prior to May 1st, 1969 as well as increases in pension credits accrued since May 1st, 1969 such that the rate or rates of pension credit for such accrued service will not be more than the rate of future service credit adopted for the Plan.
It is agreed that the foregoing shall not reduce the mandatory retirement age.
Provided however, that for the duration of the current Collective Agreement and thereafter during any renewals or extensions thereof while the Anti-Inflation Act of Canada applies, the excess of these contribution rates over the former rate of contribution of seven percent (7%) of the employee’s gross earnings from the Company shall be applied towards the purposes specified in items (a) and/or (b) of the immediately preceding paragraph.
The Company agrees to become a participating Employer under the Retail Wholesale Union Pension Trust Fund and to execute such documents as may be required in this respect. It is understood that contributions shall be payable in respect to the earnings of the employees from the first day
43
of employment whether said employees are permanent, temporary or seasonal or full time or part time employees, and regardless of whether or not they are members of the Union. It is further understood that each day or hour paid for, including days or hours of paid vacation, paid holidays or other days or hours for which pay is received by the employee in accordance with the Collective Agreement shall be counted as days or hours for which contributions are payable.
Contributions along with a list of employees for whom they have been made and the amount of contribution in respect to the earnings of each employee shall be forwarded by the Company to the National Trust Company acting as custodian of the assets of the Retail Wholesale Union Pension Trust Fund and shall do so not later than twenty-one (21) days after the close of the Company’s four to five week accounting period.
The Company shall also complete such forms and provide such information as the Trustees and Administrator for the Retail Wholesale Union Pension Plan require from time to time in the administration and operation of the Plan.
As of the date of return to work, the Company shall cease making contributions to the Retail Wholesale and Department Store Union, Local 517 Pension Trust Fund, It is further agreed that the Union, the Company and the Trustees of such Trust Fund shall take such steps as are required to transfer to the Trustees of the Retail Wholesale Union Pension Plan and Trust Fund all of the assets and benefit liabilities under the Retail Wholesale and Department Store Union Local 517 Pension Plan and Trust Fund.
All monies paid to the Trustees of the Retail Wholesale Union Trust Fund pursuant to this Collective Agreement shall be maintained under a single sub account of that Trust Fund and there shall be no distinction between the monies transferred from the Retail, Wholesale and Department
44
Store Union, Local 517 Pension Trust Fund and contributions made by the Company subsequent to the date of return to work pursuant to this Collective Agreement.
The ‘provisions of the Retail Wholesale Union Pension Plan shall provide rights and benefits for each employee having earned a benefit under the Retail Wholesale and Department Store Union, Local 517 Pension Plan at least as great as those earned under that Plan. Thus each such employee shall not suffer any loss of accrued benefits and rights as a result of the transfer of assets and liabilities from the Retail Wholesale and Department Store Union, Local 517 Pension Plan and Trust Fund to the Retail Wholesale Union Pension and Trust Fund.
The British Columbia Sugar Refining Company Limited Improved Contributory Pension Plan shall continue to be operated pursuant to the Letter of Understanding included in the Collective Agreement entered into the 16th day of April 1971 between the Union and the British Columbia Sugar Refining Company Limited and the Agreement and Declaration of Trust created in accordance with such Letter of Understanding.
Section4. Surplus& Deadlock
In addition to the terms of the aforementioned Letter of Understanding, it is agreed that the plan assets shall be reviewed every three (3)years. If a surplus is determined to exist, it shall be distributed in accordance with Paragraph 10 of the same Letter of April 16,1971.
It is agreed that the Pension Plan I documents (Trust Agreement and/or Plan text) shall be amended to include a clause for breaking a deadlock of the Pension Board, wherein the parties shall present the deadlock question(s) for decision to a third person selected by the Board. If the Pension Board members cannot agree on a third person, the Board shall apply to a Judge of the Supreme Court of British Columbia to appoint a person experienced and
45
knowledgeable in trust law and pensions to decide the question, The decision of the third person or the court appointee shall he final and binding.
All costs associated with the activities of the judge/or third person to be shared equally by the Company and the Union.
Article XX
EARLY VOLUNTARY RETIREMENT SUPPLEMENT Section 1. Supplement
The Company agrees to provide for any employee who takes Early Voluntary Retirement during the term of this Collective Agreement a temporary supplementary pension in accordance with the following:
(a)	Early Voluntary Retirement will commence on the first of a month and the Company requires one month’s advance notice in order to make the necessary arrangements.
(b)	The amount of monthly pension shall he for an employee $6.00 per month for each year of service to a maximum of 30 years of such service.
(c)	The pension shall he payable to any employee who retires from the service of the Company on or after the attainment of age 55, hut before the attainment of age 65 with a minimum of 15 years of service with the Company.
(d)	The temporary paymentswill he payable during the lifetime of the employee, hut ceasing:
(i) after 5 years,
or (ii) with the payment for the month immediately prior to the month in which the employee would become eligible for the Old Age Security Pension
46
or the Retirement Pension under the Canada Pension Pian had he made application for such pension or pensions at the earliest opportunity.
Article XXI
REQUEST FOR NEW EMPLOYEES
The Company shall notify the Union when applications for employment are being accepted and/or when an immediate job vacancy exists. Referrals from the Union shall be
considered equally with applicants from other sources. In
no case will the Company hire new employees without having given the Union the opportunity to provide applicants.
Article XXII
PREPAID DENTAL PLAN
Section 1. Contributions Administration
(a)	The Company agrees to make a contribution necessary to provide benefits in the Plan to provide.
90% Basic Dental Services
90% Crowns, Bridges and Dentures
90% Orthodontics
(b)	It is understood and agreed contributions shall be made for all compensable weeks (or fraction thereof) paid for by the Company for each employee in the bargaining unit who has completed six (6) months of service with the Company. Each week paid for shall include periods of paid vacation, statutory holidays, paid compassionate leave and any other periods for which pay is received by the employee from the Company in accordance with the collective Agreement and shall be counted as time for which contributions are payable. It is further understood and agreed that contributions shall be made for all weeks for which an employee is receiv-
47
ing Weekly Indemnity and Workers’ Compensation.
It is also understood and agreed that any employee who has completed the six (6) month precoverage period of employment with a Company who is a participating Employer in the Retail Wholesale Industry Dental Plan shall be entitled to the dental coverage the first of the month following employment with the Company; or, where an extension of coverage is provided by the previous participating employer, coverage will become effective on the first of the month following the expiration of this coverage.
(c)	The Company agrees to submit payment together with a list of names to the Retail Wholesale Industry Dental Care Fund (B.C.) on or before the 5th day of each month.
(d)	Any eligible employee who is reduced to part time and is reverted to full time, shall immediately be reinstated in the Plan and contributions shall be made as of the date he again becomes a full time employee.
Article XXIII
ACCUMULATED TIME OFF Section 1. -A.T.O.
(a)	Employees shall accumulate paid time off on the basis of two (2) hours for each work week for which full compensation was received. This would include vacation, but would exclude unpaid leave of absence, weekly indemnity and Workers’ Compensation.
NOTE: “Full Compensation” means a minimum of 38 hours.
Such time c£E is to be scheduled with non-prime time vacations or at the employees’ request may be sched-
48
ulecl for partial day’s absence in increments of one-half (¥>) hour. It is understood that this does not interfere with the employee’s right to apply for unpaid leave of absence.
(b)	It is understood that two (2) hours accumulation per week represents a maximum of ten (10) working days off with pay per year.
(c)	Upon termination or retirement an employee shall be paid in cash for all accumulated hours to which he is entitled to at the time of termination or retirement.
(d)	It is understood all hours accumulated shall he computed to December 1st each year. Any hours less than full eight (8) hours accumulation shall be paid out in cash at the time of days off.
(e)	It is understood that should the parties by mutual agreement find it feasible and practical to introduce an actual reduction of hours of work in the work day or week, the accumulation of time off and payments of Same will cease.
Article XXIV
HEARINGAID, EYEGLASSAND PRE-PAID PRESCRIPTION DRUG
Sectionl. Coverage Provided
The Company agrees to continue the following coverage provided by M.S.A. for the duration of the Collective Agreement and no changes will be put into effect unless mutually agreed upon between the Company and the Union.
(a)	Prepaid Drug Plan with no deductible
(b)	Eyeglasses, Lenses arid Frames, to a maximum of $150.00 per year, per person.
49
(c)	Hearing Aids to a maximum of $350.00 per person, once every four (4) years.
(d)	It is understood all employees, dependents and retired employees shall be covered by the above Welfare Plan. Eligible dependents shall be wife or husband of a covered employee and a covered employee’s unmarried children under the age of 19 or under the age of 25 while attending an educational institution provided such person is still dependent on the employee.
Article XXV
COMPANY/UNION MEETINGS
The Company and the Union may hold regular monthly Company/Union Meetings. Either party may cancel such meetings by giving written notice two days in advance of a regularly scheduled meeting.
Article XXVI
DURATION OF AGREEMENT Section 1. Dates
(a) This Agreement shall be for the period from and including March 1.1992 to and including February 28, 1995 and trom year-to-year thereafter subject to the" right of either party of the Agreement, within four (4) months immediately preceding the date of the expiry of this Agreement (February 28,1995) or immediately preceding the last day of February in any year thereafter, by written notice, to require the other party to the Agreement to commence collective bargaining.
Should either party give written notice aforesaid, this Collective Agreement shall thereafter continue in full force and effect and neither party shall make any
50
change in the terms of the said Collective Agreement (or increase or decrease the rate of pay of any employee for whom collective bargaining is being conducted or alter any other term or condition of employment) until:
(i)	The Union shall give notice to strike (or until the Union goes on strike) or
(ii)	The Company shall give notice of lockout (or the Company shall lock out its employees) or
(iii)	The parties shall conclude a renewal or revision of this Collective Agreement or enter into a new collective Agreement, whichever is the earliest.
Section 2. Anniversary Date
It is understood that the term “anniversary date” in this Collective Agreement refers to the date, 1st of March.
Section 3. Sub-Section 2 Section 66 cf Industrial Relations Act
It is mutually agreed that the operation of subsection 2 of Section 66 of the Industrial Relations Act of B.C, is specifically excluded from this Collective Agreement.
DATED thisISt day of June, 1992.
SIGNED ON BEHALF OF THE COMPANY:
The British Columbia Sugar Refining Company Limited, Vancouver, B,C.
M. H. Fletcher(signed)
H. M. Hayward (signed)
D. E. Webster (signed)
W. D. Avey (signed)
D. S. C. Richards (signed)
SIGNED ON BEHALF OF THE UNION:
Retail Wholesale Union Local 517
D. R. Craig (signed)
R. C. Vollweiter (signed) D. D. Finnamore (signed) R. L. Trayling (signed)
L. L. Lambert(signed) Brian D. DeBeck (signed) Asst Prov. Representative
51
APPENDIX "A"
JOB CLASSIFICATIONS
Hourly Rate Effective March1/92 March1/93 March1/94 +$0.50	+$0.50	+$0.50
Section 1. Operating Group (a):
Miscellaneous Labour....... $16.51	$17.01	$17.51
Packer - Small Pack Watchman, Yard &Janitor
Employees in Group (a) who are classified & trained as Spares in other Groups shall receive an additional five cents (5<0 per hour.
Any employee classified in Group (a) Miscellaneous Labour,Janitors &Watchman hired prior to March 1st,
1973 shall receive a red-circled
rate as follows:............. $16.99	$17.49	$17.99
Group (b):	^	„
Case Sealer ................. $18.47	$18.97	$19.47
Soft Sugar Packer............ $18.47	$18.97	$19.47
Sweetland PressHoser....... $18.47	$18.97	$19.47
Silo Man .................... $18-47	$18.97	$19.47
Sewing Room & Laundry
Attendant ................... $18.47	$18.97	$19.47
Warehouse Hand
Palletizer................... $18.47	$18.97	$19.47
Warehouse Sweeper Op....... $18.47	$18.97	$19.47
Yard Tractor ................ $18.47	$18.97	$19.47
Group(c)'.
Blow-ups..................... $18.54	$19.04	$19.54
52
Cube Carton Packing Machine
Cube Drum..................
Granulators................
Material Receiver Asst.....
xx Packers: 10 kilo & 40 kilo Granulated, Icing Raw Sugar Pkg. &Sewing, Soft Sugar .... 1 kilo & 2 kilo Operator
Hourly Rate Effective March1/92 March1/93 March 1/94 +$0.50	+$0.50	+$0.50
$18.54	$19.04	$19.54
$18.54	$19.04	$19.54
$18.54	$19.04	$19.54
$18.54	$19.04	$19.54
$18.54	$19.04	$19.54
xx While operating the St. Regis Packer for direct loading on truck $0.16 differential is payable.
Group(d):
Bins & Icing Mills......... $18.65
Mud Press Stellar Operator . . .	$18.65
*Storekeeper Assistant..... $18.65
Group (e):
Centrifugals - Refined ..... $18.86
Adsorbant Systems Operator .	$18.86
Clarification Station Oper. ...	$18.86
Envelope Machine............. $18.86
Filtration Operator ........... $18.86
Fork Truck Operator............ $18.86
Loader....................... $18.86
Material Receiver.............. $18.86
Melt House Operator ........... $18.86
Liquid Sugar Operator ......... $18.86
Liquid Sugar Loader ........... $18.86
*No.2 Laboratory Asst.
1st 3 months ......... $18.54
2nd 3 months........... $18.77
Thereafter............. $18.86
Tank Floor Attendant .......... $18.86
$19.15
$19.15
$19.15
$19.36
$19.36
$19.36
$19.36
$19.36
$19.36
$19.36
$19.36
$19.36
$19.36
$19.36
$19.04
$19.27
$19.36
$19.36
$19.65
$19.65
$19.65
$19.86
$19.86
$19.86
$19.86
$19.86
$19.86
$19.86
$19.86
$19.86
$19.86
$19.86
$19.54
$19.77
$19.86
$19.86
53
Utility Man .............
Group (f):
Granulated 2 & 4 kg Oper. . .
Morris Clam-shellOper....
Raw Sugar Reclaimer......
Group (g):
Colby Crane Operator.....
(while discharging raw sugar cargo)
*No. 2 Laboratory Oper. . . . Station Operator -
Leading Hand.............
(Granulated Cartons, Cubes, Icing, Soft Sugar, Syrup)
*Storekeeper.,...........
Sugar Boiler Asst.
1st 6 months......
2nd 6 months......
Thereafter........
Sugar Boiler ............
Warehouse Clerk .........
Hourly Rate Effective
March 1/92 March 1/93 March 1/94
+$0.50	+$0.50	+$0.50
$18.86	$19.36	$19.86
$19.08	$19.58	$20.08
$19.08	$19.58	$20.08
$19.08	$19.58	$20.08
$19.71	$20.21	$20.71
$19.27	$19.77	$20.27
$19.23	$19.73	$20.23
$19.51	$20.01	$20.51
$18.77	$19.27	$19.77
$19,20	$19,70	$20.20
$19.61	$20.11	$20.61
$20.13	$20.63	$21.13
$19.23	$19.73	$20.23
Section 2. Mechanical Group (a) Non-Journeyman:
Oiler,...............
Helper ..’...........
Pipelagger...........
Group (b)
Jou rneyman Trades:
Bricklayer ..........
Carpenter............
Instrument Technician .
$19.42	$19:92	$20.42
$19.81	$20.31	$20.81
$20.13	$20.63	$21.13
WithoutB.C. Trades Ticket
$21.31	$21.81	$22.31
$21.31	$21.81	$22.31
$21.31	$21.81	$22.31
54
xMachinist..............
Trades:
Painter.................
Pipefitter..............
Sheet Metal (copper-smith,
tinsmith)...............
Welder..................
Group (c)
Journeyman Trades:
Electrician.............
xMechanic - Production . . Heavy Duty Mechanic ....
Group (d)
Journeyman Trades:
Steam Plant:
Fireman.................
Section 3. Mechanical Trades
Group (a)
Journeyman Trades:
Bricklayer .............
Carpenter ..............
InstrumentTechnician ., .
xMachinist..............
Painter.................
Pipefitter..............
Sheet Metal (copper-smith,
tinsmith)...............
Welder..................
Group(b)
Journeyman Trades:
xElectrician............
Hourly RateEffectlve
March 1/92 March 1/93 March 1/94
+$0.50	+$0.50	+$0.50
$21.31	$21.81	$22.31
$21.31	$21.81	$22.31
$21.31	$21.81	$22.31
$21.31	$21.81	$22.31
$21.31	$21.81	$22.31
$21.50	$22.00	$22.50
$21.50	$22.00	$22.50
$21.50	$22.00	$22,50
$20.13	$20.63	$21.13
With B.C. TradesTicket
$23.04	$23.54	$24.04
$23.04	$23.54	$24.04
$23.04	$23.54	$24.04
$23.04	$23.54	$24.04
$23.04	$23.54	$24.04
$23.04	$23.54	$24.04
$23.04	$23.54	$24,04
$23.04	$23.54	$24,04
$23.27	$23.77	$24.27
55
xMechanic-Production . . Heavy Duty Mechanic . .. Pipefitter with GA Licence (Class “A” Gas Ticket)
Group (c)
Journeyman Trades:
-Leading Hand:
Carpenter...............
Electrician - Electronic .. . Instrument Technician ...
Machinist...............
Mechanic - Packing House
Maintenance..........
Pipefitter..............
SheetMetal..............
Group (d)
Steam Plant: Engineer
4th Class 3rd Class 2nd Class
HourlyRate Effective
March 1 /9S March 1193 March 1/94
+$0.50	+$0.50	+$0.50
$23.27	$23.77	$24.27
$23,27	$23.77	$24.27
$23.27	$23.77	$24.27
$23.69	$24.19	$24.69
$24.22	$24.72	$25.22
$23.69	$24.19	$24.69
$23.69	$24.19	$24.69
$23.69	$24.19	$24.69
$23.69	$24.19	$24.69
$23.69	$24.19	$24.69
$21.89	$22.39	$22.89
$22.29	$22.79	$23.29
$24.24	$24.74	$25.24
All Journeyman Trades employees on payroll at 18 January, 1979 will be considered to have aB.C, Trade Ticket for the purpose of Appendix “A.”
Section 4. Helper
Refinery employees who may he sent to help Mechanics when they are notrequired at their refinery stations will be paid their refinery rate.
Section 5. First Aid Certificate& Bonus
Required by Classificationjobs (and classified spare) designated as requiring first aid certificate effective on date of signing the Collective Agreement, holders of valid first aid
56
certificates for thesejobs will receive first aid bonus as follows:
Class “AA” Certificate - 60 cents per houi Class “A” Certificate - 50 cents per hour Class“B” Certificate - 40 cents per hour Class “C” Certificate - 30 cents per hour
Employees attending First Aid Course will receive their current rate of pay forhourswhile attending school.
Section6. Optional by Job Classification
Sugar Boilers, Sugar Boiler Assistants, Shift Mechanics, Shift Electricians. Shift Production Mechanics and classified spares may choose to obtain a first aid certificate.
They will receive their current rate of pay for hours while attending First Aid Course and upon receipt of valid first aid certificate will receive first aid bonusas follows:
Class “AA” Certificate - 60 cents per houi Class “A” Certificate - 50 cents per hour Class “B” Certificate - 40 cents per hour Class “C” Certificate - 30 cents per hour
Section 7. Personal Preference
Any other employee may obtain a first aid certificate and will be paid a first aid bonus only when he is required to act as a First Aid Attendant.
The bonus is as follows:
Class “AA” Certificate - 60 cents per hour Class “A” Certificate - 50 cents per hour Class “B” Certificate - 40 cents per hour Class “C” Certificate - 30 cents per hour
When the employee successfully completes the First Aid Course and obtains a firstaid certificate under this personal preference provision he shall be reimbursed for the cost of one course, the cost of one exam and for the time spent at
57
the course for up to 70 hours at their current rate of pay in accordance with the Company’s policy on first aid tickets.
Section 8. Tools
Tool Allowance
The following trades will receive an annual allowance based on the contract year, which may be used to purchase tools necessary for their trades at B.C. Sugar.
(i)	Machinist, Heavy Duty Mechanics and Production Mechanics - $80.00.
(ii)	Electricians, Pipefitters, Carpenters, Bricklayers, Instrument Technicians, Sheetmetal Workers, Welders and Painter - $40.00.
The tool allowance may be accumulated over a two-year period.
The procedure for purchasing tools is:
-	All anticipated purchase or actual purchase must be approved by the Mechanical Superintendent or his Designate.
-	Each tradesman can purchase his own tools and be reimbursed up to the designated maximum.
-	Reimbursement will be made on presentation of the tools and receipt to the Mechanical Superintendent or his Designate. Receipts will be returned if requested.
Section 9. TboL Insurance
Fire and theft insurance will be provided to cover the cost of tool replacement up to a maximum of $5,000 (five thousand dollars), with the $50. (fifty dollar) deductible.
The theft portion of this policy will cover theft of the employee’s tool box and/or tools only from the Company’s premises or from a designated work place, provided there are visual signs f breaking and entering.
58
The employee is responsible for submission to the Company of a priced inventory of his tools before becoming eligible for tool insurance.
Tool insurance will become effective for each tradesman upon receipt of his tool inventory.
The Company will repair or replace tools damaged or broken in the performance of regular duties.
59
APPENDIX “B” HOURS OF WORK 24 HourClock System
ONE SHIFT OPERATING
Day
TWO SHIFTS OPERATING
Day
Afternoon
07:00 hours to 15:30 hours 07:30 hours to 16:00 hours One-half hour for Lunch
07:00 hours to 15:30 hours 15:30 hours to 24:00 hours One-hall hour for Lunch
THREE SHIFTS OPERATING
Day
Afternoon
Night
07:00 hours to 15:30 hours 14:00 hours to 22:30 hours 22:30 hours to 07:00 hours One-half hour for Lunch
STRAIGHTTIME SHIFTS
Day
Afternoon
Night
07:00 hours to 15:00 hours 15:00 hours to 23:00 hours 15:30 hours to 23:30 hours 23:00 hours to 07:00 hours 23:30 hours to 07:30 hours
BOAT SHIFT
ONE SHIFT OPERATING
Days	08:00 hours to 17:00 hours
One hour for Lunch
TWO SHIFTS OPERATING
Days	07:30 hours to 16:30 hours
08:00 hours to 17:00 hours One hour for Lunch 16:45 hours to 01:15 hours One-half hour for Lunch
60
Afternoon
SPECIAL SHIFTS
Days
Afternoon
Night
06:30 hours to 15:00 hours
-	Mechanical - Watchman Cube Drum
08:00 hours to 16:30 hours -Material Receiver 09:00 hours to 17:30 hours -Janitor
15:00 hours to 23:30 hours
-	Cube Drum
22:00 hours to 06:30 hours
-	Icing - Watchman One-half hour for Lunch
STRAIGHT TIME
Afternoon	16:00 hours to 24:00 hours
Utility Friday only.
Shift Mechanic Friday Only.
Shift Electrician Friday Only.
No. 2 Lab. Operator- Friday Only.
22:30 Sunday- 06.30 hours Monday -Utility Man only.
SHUTDOWN SHIFTS (Additional)
06:30 hours to 14:30 hours 06:30 hours to 15:00 hours 08:00 hours to 16:30 hours 08:30 hours to 17:00 hours 14:30 hours to 22:30 hours 16:00 hours to 24:00 hours
Designated Lunch periods between 3 to 5 hours after commencing shift.
61
APPENDIX “C’
SPARES
1.	When a job vacancy occurs in any of the following classifications the Assistant with the most classification seniority shall be awarded the position.
1.	Sugar Boiler
2.	No. 2 Laboratory Operator
3.	Storekeeper
4.	Material Receiver
2.	When a vacancy occurs in the Liquid Sugar Operator classification, the Liquid Sugar Loader with the most classification seniority shall be awarded the position. When a vacancy occurs in the Warehouse Clerk classification, the Loader with the most classification seniority shall be awarded the position.
3.	Except for the following spare jobs, employees shall be promoted in accordance with Article VII, Section 3.
1.	Bins and Icing Mills
2.	Blow-ups
3.	No.2 Laboratory Assistant
4.	Utility Man
5.	Loader
6.	Cube Carton Packing Machine
7.	Cube Drum
8.	Envelope Machine
9.	Granulators
10.	Melt House Operator
11.	Packers-10 Kilo-40 Kilo Granulated, Icing, Raw Sugar Packing and Sewing.
12.	Filtration Operator
13.	Tank Floor Attendant
14.	Centrifugal Refined
15.	Delta Sealer
16.	Fireman - Power House
17.	Fork Truck Operator
62
18.	Sugar Boiler Assistant
19.	Mud Press Stellar Operator
20.	Oiler
21.	Soft Sugar 1 Kilo and 2 Kilo Operator
22.	Liquid Sugar Loader
23.	Sweetland Press Hoser
24.	Material Receiver Assistant
25.	Storekeeper Assistant
26.	Station Operator Leading Hand (Cubes, Icing,
Soft Sugar, Syrup, Granulated Cartons, Delta Sealer)
27.	Sewing Room & Laundry Attendant
28.	Warehouse Hand Palletizer
29.	Soft Sugar Packer
30.	Silo Man
31.	Warehouse Sweeper Operator
32.	Raw Sugar Reclaimer
33.	Adsorbant System Operator
34.	Clarification Station Operator
When a vacancy occurs, the above mentioned sparejobs shall be posted and filled in the same fashion as an ordinary posting. Therefore, thejobs listed in (2) above shall not be posted but automatically filled by the spare.
Where there is more than one spare under (2) above, the employee with the longest seniority as a spare shall become the classified employee.
It is understood a Colby Crane Operator is eligible to hold one other classification.
The Raw Sugar Reclaimer classification shall be filled by the senior Colby Crane Operator. All other classified Colby Crane Operators shall hold the Raw Sugar Reclaimer spare classification. A Colby Crane Operator is also eligible to hold one other job classification.
63
APPENDIX “D” APPRENTICES
Section! Definition
Apprentices to be brought into the bargaining unit as defined in Article I, Section 1 of the Collective Agreement.
Section 2. Numberof Apprentices
It is agreed that for each ten (lO)Journeymen oranyfrac-tion thereof, one (1) apprentice maybe employed in the following trade:
-	Machinist
-	Electrician
-	Coppersmith
-	Pipe Fitter
-	Tinsmith
-Welder
-	Carpenter
-	Instrument Technician
Section 3. Apprentices’Wages
Notwithstanding the ratio set forth as a basis of employing apprentices,no apprentice will be laid offatany time during his apprenticeship term because the said ratio may become exceeded by a reduction in the number of Journeymen employed.
(a)	While attending an approved Vocational School an Apprentice will receive from the Apprenticeship Branch allowance and school expenses, in accordance with the Government’s Schedule of grants pertaining to Apprenticeship Training. In addition, the employee shall receive from the Company an allowance comprised of the difference between his regular straight time rate based on a forty hour week and the weekly living allowance granted by the Apprenticeship Branch or any other grants. Allowances provided by the Company shall not apply to any periods of retraining as specified in Item 7 (a).
64
(b)	It is understood Apprentices are covered by all the terms of the Collective Agreement.
Apprentice Wage Scale: Under this Program Apprentices
will receive the following pay during the term of this Collective Agreement.
4 Year Apprenticeship
lstyear- Base Rate
2nd year - Base rate plus 25% difference ofjoumeyman;
3rd year - Base rate plus 50% difference of Journeyman;
4th year- Base rate plus 75% difference of Journeyman.
(c)	Vacancies for Apprentices shall be posted as a job vacancy in accordance with Article VII Seniority, Section 4.
Section4. General Principles
(a)	General Principles: The minimum period of training will be four (4) years.
(b)	All apprentices shall sign an apprenticeship agreement as prescribed by the Apprenticeship Branch, but in case of any conflict between such agreement and the Collective Agreement, the latter shall govern.
(c)	Seniority: Apprentices’ names will be placed on the Seniority List upon the completion of their apprenticeship, dated to their original date of employment for plant seniority and date of qualification for craft seniority.
(d)	All provisions of the Collective Agreement shall be applicable to Apprentices in the Program.
(e)	Apprentices hired with previous training may be placed into the Training Program at a level determined by the Joint Apprenticeship Committee, with advice from the Apprenticeship Branch.
65
Section 5. Joint Company/Union
ApprenticeshipCommittee:
This Committee will be comprised of three (3) Union and three (3) Company Representatives.
The purpose of the Committee will be to develop and supervise procedures to carry out the intent of the Program as agreed to. The Committee will also carry out the following duties:
(a)	The Company to establish in-plant training programs to support the training syllabus as developed by the Apprenticeship Branch of the Department of Labour for each trade involved. Supervision of the established program shall be the responsibility of the Joint Committee.
(b)	Set standardsofentry into the Apprenticeship Program that are not inconsistent with the standards recommended by the Apprenticeship Branch.
(c)	Carry out periodic review of training programs.
(d)	See that the required practical tests are carried out in co-operation with the Apprenticeship Branch.
(e)	Determine the tool requirements by years of training.
(f)	Joint Committee to reviewany case of lost time from the Program because of sickness, accident, etc., and to determine the amount of additional time necessary before an employee meets his requirement of time served. The apprentice shall complete at least 1800 hours per year as set out by the Apprenticeship Board.
Section 6. Entry to Program - New Apprentices:
Entrance into the Program without any previous training of any kind will in all cases be subject to the applicant meeting the standards required for acceptance established by the Apprenticeship Branch.
66
(a)	The Company will advise the Apprenticeship Committee each year as to the number of vacancies for which employees may be accepted into the Apprenticeship Program.
(b)	Prospective apprentices must meet requirements of aptitude and basic skills tests as developed by an independent testing agency. In addition, the Company agrees that those passing requirements will be placed in the Apprenticeship based on seniority.
(c)	The Company agrees that when hiring journeymen tradesmen in future, only those with B.C. Trade qualifications will he hired. Where the only suitable appli-cantdoesnot have B.C. Trade qualifications,the matter shall be discussed with the Apprenticeship Committee.
(d)	Upon completion of each period of training in an approved Vocational School, an apprentice will be required to pass examinations set by the Apprenticeship Branch. Practical examinations shall be confined to the area of training received. In the event of failure to pass examinations, the apprentice shall be required to undergo a period of retraining on subject material specified by the Apprenticeship Branch authorities and will be required to be re-examined within twelve (12) months. Failure to pass the second examination will result in a reviewofhis position by thejoint Apprenticeship Committee and could result in his removal from the Program. Employees who arc removed from the Program will be offered a base rated classification in the Department he came from and placed upon the Seniority List with his original date of employment less the amount of years and months he spent as an Apprentice. It is understood, however, that his combined seniority would apply for vacations, pension, severance pay and welfare benefits.
67
Section 7. Scheduleof Training for Apprentices:
(a)	Successful applicants will be assigned to a specified trade as a probationer for a three (3) month period. During the probationary period, he shall be paid the base rate.
(b)	On successful completion of the probationary period the probationer shall be reclassified and paid the first year Apprentice rate for the following nine (9) months. During this twelve (12) months as a first year Apprentice, he shall work eleven (11) months at the trade and spend one (1) month at the Vocational School, or as required by the Apprenticeship Branch.
(c)	On successful completion of the first period of training at the Vocational School and having spent twelve (12) months as a first year Apprentice, he shall be reclassified and paid the second year Apprentice rate for the following twelve (12) months. During this twelve (12)months as a second year Apprentice, he shall work eleven (11) months at the trade and spend one (1) month at the Vocational School, or as required by the Apprenticeship Branch.
(d)	On successful completion of the second period of training at the Vocational School and having spent twelve (12) months as a second year Apprentice, he shall be reclassified and paid the third year Apprentice rate for the following twelve (12) months. During this twelve (12) months as a third year Apprentice, he shall work eleven (11) months at the trade and spend one (1) month at the Vocational School, or as required by the Apprenticeship Branch.
(e)	On successful completion of the third year of training at the Vocational School and having spent twelve (12) months as a third year Apprentice, he shall be reclassified and paid the fourth year Apprentice rate
68
for the following twelve (12) months. During this twelve (12) months as a fourth year Apprentice, he shall work eleven (11) months at the trade and spend one (I) month at the Vocational School, or as required by the Apprenticeship branch.
(f)	If any of the aforementioned work periods are exceeded due to the unavailability ofVocational School facilities, such extra time will be credited to the Apprentice in succeeding training requirements, Also, the Apprentice’s rate shall he adjusted retroactively to the commencement of the scheduled year providing he successfully passes the examinations. Retroactivity will not apply where re-testing is necessary.
(g)	It is further understood an Apprentice’s qualifying time shall be determined from his anniversary date of entry into the Program.
69
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
BETWEEN:
THE BRITISH COLUMBIA SUGAR REFINING COMPANY LIMITED, VANCOUVER
(hereinafterreferred to as the “Company”)
OF THE FIRST PART;
AND:
RETAIL WHOLESALE UNION LOCAL517
(hereinafter referred to as the “Union”)
OF THE SECOND PART;
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in Article XIX Pension Plan, the Company and the Union agree that the Company will not participate in the administration of “ ‘The Retail, Wholesale and Department Store Union Pension Trust Fund”, other than through contributions.
DATED this 1st day of June, 1992.
SIGNED ON BEHALF OF THE COMPANY:
The British Columbia Company Limited , Vancouver, B.C.
M.H. Fletcher (signed)
H. M. Hayward(signed)
D. E. Webster (signed)
W. D. Avey (signed)
D. S. C. Richards (signed)
70
SIGNED ON BEHALF OF THE UNION:
Retail Wholesale Union Local 517
D, R. Craig (signed)
R, C. Vollweiter (signed) D. D. Finnamore (signed) R. L. Trayling (signed)
L, L. Lambert (signed) Brian D. DeBeck (signed) Asst. Prov. Representative
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
2TWEEN:
THE BRITISH COLUMBIA SUGAR REFINING COMPANY LIMITED, VANCOUVER
(hereinafter referred to as the “Company”)
OF THE FIRST PART;
MD:
RETAIL WHOLESALE UNION LOCAL517
(hereinafter referred to as the “Union”)
OF THE SECOND PART;
E: Outside Contractors
The following outlines the Company’s present policy on e use of outside contractors in the Vancouver refinery.
The Company’s main concern has been to try to ensure at no permanent employee would be displaced ty any >rk contracted out. In general, then, the Company has ;ed outside contractors, for example:
where work involved is new construction.
where the work involved some new equipment installation or for warranty work following an installation.
where the work involves only a temporary surge in work volume.
The Company hopes and expects to be able to continue > past and present policy on this issue, barring any unfore-:en developments. There is no past instance of any nployee being displaced by the use of outside contractors the Vancouver ref nery.
71
DATED thislst day of June, 1992.
SIGNED ON BEHALF OF OF THE COMPANY:
The British Columbia Sugar Refining Company Limited, Vancouver, B.C.
M. H. Fletcher (signed)
H. M. Hayward (signed)
D. E. Webster (signed)
W. D. Avey (signed)
D. S. C. Richards (signed)
SIGNED ON BEHALF Of THE UNION:
Retail Wholesale Union Local 517
D. R. Craig (signed)
R. C. Vollweiter (signed) D. D. Finnamore (signec R. L. Trayling (signed)
L. L. Lambert(signed) Brian D. DeBeck (signer Asst Prov. Representative
72
MEMORANDUM
RE: Unloading Sugar Boats:
In the event that an employee/s finds he/they cannot work overtime for the purpose of unloading a sugar boat, the Union agrees that it shall endeavour to try and get a sufficient number of other employees to work the overtime necessary to unload the said boat with dispatch. The Union makes this undertaking, without prejudice to its position that overtime work is voluntary on the part of the employee in each instance. The Company agrees that it will not process its current two grievances with respect to refusal to work overtime to unloadsugar boats on the 24th and 25th of June and the 16th and 17th of September, 1978.
DATED this 1st day of June, 1992.
SIGNED ON BEHALF OF OF THE COMPANY:
The British Columbia Sugar Refining Company Limited, Vancouver, B.C.
M. H. Fletcher(signed)
H. M. Hayward (signed)
D. E. Webster (signed)
W. D. Avey (signed)
D. S. C. Richards (signed)
SIGNED ON BEHALF OF THE UNION:
Retail Wholesale Union Local 517
D. R. Craig (signed)
R. C. Vollweiter (signed) D. D. Finnamore (signed) R. L. Trayling (signed)
L. Lambert(signed)
Brian D. DeBeck (signed) Asst Prov. Representative
73
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
BETWEEN:
THE BRITISHCOLUMBIA SUGAR REFINING COMPANY LIMITED, VANCOUVER
(hereinafter referred to as the “Company”)
OF THE FIRST PART;
AND:
RETAIL WHOLESALE UNION LOCAL 517
(hereinafter referred to as the “Union”)
OF THE SECOND PART
Sectioni.
The Company and Union agree to continue the 12-hour shift trial schedule for the Power House Engineers and their relief only. The Union and Company agree to exempt the classifications of Power House Engineer and their relief from any clause in the current Collective Agreement which affects hours of work, overtime and other related conditions. Should any differences arise relative to the shift schedule and where the matter is not dealt with in this Letter f Understanding, such differences will be attempted to he resolved by the Company/Union Committee. If no settlements of resolution are made or if either party believes the schedule is not working satisfactorily, either party may terminate this Letter of Understanding upon giving seven (7) days’ written notice to the other party.
On termination, the work schedule and conditions will revert to the schedulesand conditions applied to them prior to the coming into effect of this letter - i.e. 8-hour shift schedules. Conditions applicable to the shift schedule are as follows:
1.	The schedule must meet the approval of the Boiler’s Branch, Department of Labour.
2.	The schedule shall not be interpreted in anyway to increase Company costs.
74
3.	The standard work day shall be 12 hours.
4.	Shifts commence at 7:00 hours and 19:00 hours
5.	Vacation entitlement to be based on an equivalent 8-hour day.
6.	Statutory Holidays - When not required to work on a statutory holiday, employees shall be paid eight (8) hours’ pay at their regular rate of pay. When required to work on a statutory holiday, employees shall be paid 2 x the regular rate of pay for all hours worked plus a choice of:
(i)	An additional 8 hours regular pay
(ii)	An additional day off with 8 hours regular pay at a time to be mutually arranged between the employee and the Company.
7.	Overtime at 2 x regular rate of pay to be paid after 12 hours in one shift or for time worked outside scheduled shift in one week.
8.	Shift differential to apply to hours worked from 15:00 to 19:00 hours on 1st shift and from 19:00 to 7:00 hours on 2nd shift.
9.	Workers’ Compensation pay will be based on the rules dictated by the Workers’ Compensation Board.
10.	Weekly Indemnity will be based on an average 8-hour day, 40-hour week at regular pay.
Section 2.
In addition the parties agree that Power House Engineers can exchange working hours by mutual agreementand with the consent of the Company. Both engineers shall receive their regular pay with no reduction in pay to one engineer and no overtime pay to the other engineer because of such exchange. Standard exchange of shift forms should be used with copies to the Company, the employees and the Union.
75
It is agreed that such exchanged hours shall be repaid within sixty (60) days. The above shall not preclude the payment of overtime rates in all other applicable instances and must comply with applicable Boiler Operating Regulations.
Section 2 of this Letter of Understanding is not subject to the seven (7) day cancellation clause in Section 1.
DATED this 1st day of June, 1992.
SIGNED ON BEHALF OF THE COMPANY:
The British Columbia Sugar Refining Company Limited, Vancouver, B.C.
M. H. Fletcher(signed)
H. M. Hayward (signed)
D. E. Webster (signed)
W. D. Avey (signed)
D. S. C. Richards (signed)
SIGNED ON BEHALF OF THE UNION:
Retail Wholesale Union Local 517
D. R. Craig (signed)
R. C. Vollweiter (signed) D. D. Finnamore (signed) R. L. Trayling (signed)
L. L. Lambert(signed) Brian D. DeBeck (signed) Asst. Prov. Representative
76
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
BETWEEN:
THE BRITISH COLUMBIA SUGAR REFINING COMPANY LIMITED
(hereinafter referred to as the “Company”)
OF THE FIRST PART;
AND:
RETAIL WHOLESALE UNION LOCAL517
(hereinafter referred to as the “Union”)
OF THE SECOND PART,
RE: Implementation Vacation & A.T.O. Entitlementfor Memorandumof Agreement
It is agreed that the new A.T.O. & vacation programs will be implemented in the following manner:
1.	Change vacation accrual from mid year to calendar year effectiveJanuary 1, 1984. Any employee who has left the employment of the Company since January 1, 1984 will get a retroactive cheque for vacation pay equal to one-half of his final year’s entitlement, All other current employees will receive a one-half year’s vacation entitlement when they leave the employment of the Company. The payment to be based on the hourly rate in effect at the date of leaving.
2.	Delete gross pay provision effectiveJanuary I, 1984 - i.e. There will be no gross vacation pay adjustment in early 1985 for vacations taken in 1984.
3.	Calculation of vacation entitlement and vacation pay for the year 1984 (to be taken in 1985) is based on employment in 1984.
However, the new formula for vacation pay reduction (if any) is effective for the period March 1, 1984 through December 31,1984.
77
4. The A.T.O. change will be effective March 1,1984. DATED this 1st day of June, 1992.
SIGNED ON BEHALF OF THE COMPANY:
The British Columbia Sugar Refining Company Limited, Vancouver,'B.C.
M. H. Fletcher(signed)
H. M. Hayward (signed)
D. E. Webster (signed)
W. D. Avey (signed)
D. S. C. Richards (signed)
SIGNED ON BEHALF OF THEUNION:
Retail Wholesale Union Local 517
D. R. Craig (signed)
R. C. Vollweiter (signed) D. D. Finnamore (signed) R. L.Trayling (signed)
L. L. Lambert (signed) Brian D. DeBeck (signed) Asst. Prov. Representative
78
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
BETWEEN:
THE BRITISHCOLUMBIA SUGAR REFINING COMPANY LIMITED, VANCOUVER
(hereinafter referred to as the “Company”)
OF THE FIRST PART
AND:
RETAILWHOLESALE UNION LOCAL517
(hereinafter referred to as the “Union”)
OF THE SECOND PART;
RE: Grievance Procedure
For the term of the Collective Agreement effective March I, 1986 only and on a continuing trial basis, the Company and Union agree to the following:
1.	The use of a single named Arbitrator for grievances which reach the fifth stage of grievance. This agreement substitutes the right to refer the matter to an Arbitration Board, as provided in the Grievance Procedure Article XI.
2.	The Single Arbitrator for the term of the Collective Agreement will be Richard Bird. He will be required to hear all outstanding Arbitration cases referred to him within the term of the Collective Agreement.
3.	In the event the Arbitrator in item (2) is unable to act as Arbitrator both parties agree to the appointmentofStep-hen Kelleher as the single named arbitrator.
79
DATED this 1st day of June, 1992.
SIGNED ON BEHALF OF THE COMPANY:
The British Columbia Sugar Refining Company Limited, Vancouver, B.C.
M. H. Fletcher(signed)
H. M. Hayward (signed)
D. E. Webster (signed)
W. D. Avey (signed)
D. S. C. Richards (signed)
SIGNED ON BEHALF OF THE UNION:
Retail Wholesale Union Local 517
D. R. Craig (signed)
R. C. Voliweiter (signed) D. D. Finnamore (signed) R. L. Trayling (signed)
L. L. Lambert (signed) Brian D. DeBeck (signed) Asst. Prov. Representative
80
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
BETWEEN:
THE BRITISHCOLUMBIA SUGAR REFINING COMPANY LIMITED
(hereinafter referred to as the “Company”)
OF THE FIRST PART
AND:
RETAIL WHOLESALE UNION LOCAL517
(hereinafterreferred to as the “Union”)
OFTHE SECOND PART;
AMENDMENT TO ARTICLEXIII
The following paragraph should be added to Article XIII: Section 1 -Add to I. Weekly Benefit Repayment of Sick Leave Benefits
Should an employee who has been injured or disabled receive sick leave benefits and make a claim or commence legal proceedings against a third party in relation to the injury or disability such that the employee receives monies in settlement or as damages attributable to wages lost during the period that sick leave benefits are paid, the employee shall pay to the Company the lesser of:
(a)	The amount of the sick leave benefits received; oi
(b)	The amount by which the sick leave benefits received by the employee plus the amount received on account of anyjudgment or settlement attributable to wages lost during the period for which sick leave benefits arc paid exceeds the employee’sactual wage loss during the period that sick benefits are paid.
Should there be a dispute as to the amount payable by the employee to the Company, the parties agree to resolve the dispute pursuant to the terms of Article XI and that if an
81
arbitrator is appointed, he hasjurisdiction to determine the amount payable by the employee. Failure by the employee to execute the Company contract entitled “Agreement to Repay Sick Leave Benefits” relieves the Company of an^ obligation to pay the said sick leave benefits to the employee, and if the Company has already commenced payment of such benefits to the employee, it may cease such payments ten (10) working days folio wing the receiptofthe said Company contract by the employee if the employee has not returned a duly executed copy of the same to the Company.
DATED this 1st day of June, 1992,
SIGNED ONBEHALF OF THE COMPANY:
The British Columbia Sugar Refining Company Limited, Vancouver, B.C.
M. H. Fletcher(signed)
H. M. Hayward (signed)
D. E. Webster (signed)
W. D. Avey (signed)
D. S. C. Richards (signed)
SIGNED ON BEHALF OF THE UNION:
Retail Wholesale Union Local 517
D. R. Craig (signed)
R. C. Vollweiter (signed) D. D. Finnamore (signed) R. L. Trayling (signed)
L. L. Lambert (signed) Brian D. DeBeck (signed) Asst Prov. Representative
82
SAMPLE
AGREEMENT TO REPAY SICK LEAVE BENEFITS
'VHERFAS it has been and continues to be a term of my ■mployment with British Columbia Sugar Refining Co. Ltd. 'the “Company”) that I receive sick leave benefits asset out n Article XIII of the Collective Agreement between the .Company and Retail, Wholesale Union, Local 517; AND •VHEREAS I commenced receiving sick leave benefits on or
ibout the day of----------------------------
!9_____; AND WHEREAS I have made a claim and/or I
lave commenced or will be commencing a legal action, md/or I have or will be counter-claiming in any legal action :ommenced against me, for loss o r damages arising out of he negligence orwrongful actoromission of Lhc third party is a result of the said accident;
i HEREBYCOVENANTANDAGREEthatin consideration
if the payment of sick leave benefits:
(1)	I shall repay the Company the lesser of:
(a)	the full amount of sick leave benefits received from the Company; or
(b)	the amount by which the sick leave benefits received by me plus the amount received on account of anyjudgment or settlement attributable towages lostduring the period for which sick leave benefits are paid, exceeds my actual wage loss during the period chat sick leave benefits are paid.
(2)	I further understand and agree that my obligation to pay the Company uuderparagraph (1) above shall survive the term of my employment with the Company.
(3)	If there is a dispute as to the amount payable to the Company pursuant to paragraph (1), the dispute shall
83
be resolved pursuant to the terms of Article XI of the collective agreement and if an arbitrator is appointed he shall have jurisdiction to determine the amount pay able to the Company.
I HEREBY ACKNOWLEDGE that I have the right to inde pendent legal advice in order to discuss the terms, conditions and provisions in this Agreement to repay, and that 1 have either sought such legal advice or have waived my righ to such legal advice.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF I have here unto set my signature
as to this day of_______________________________
19______
WITNESS:
Name
Address
Occupation
84
Accident Pay (W.C.B.)......
Advanced Notification......
Amounts To Pay.............
Anniversary Date ..........
Annual Vacation Entitlement
Apprentices Definition ....
Apprentices Wages..........
Arbitration ...............
Assistants.................
A.T.O......................
Bargaining Agent..............
Bulletin Boards...............
Call In Pay...................
Change In Hours...............
Appendix “A” Job Classifications Collective Agreement Binding . .
Company/Union Meetings........
Compassionate Leave ..........
Complaint in Writing..........
Contributions Administration . .
Contributions (1973) .........
Contributions (1976) .........
PAGE
... 19 ...38 ...37 ...51 ... 27 ...64 ... 65 ...31 ... 62 ...48 ...10 .. . 10 ...16 ... 17 ...52 ... 10 ...50 ...38 ... 35 ...47 ...42 ... 42
AH IIULt
VI
XVII
XIV
XXVI
IX
Appendix ‘D’ Appendix ‘D’
XI
Appendix ‘C XXIII II II
V
V
II
XXV
XVI
XII XXII XIX XIX
sec i ich
6
1
1
2
2
l
4
1
1
1,
9
1
2
3
ns Sj UI w
INDEX
PAGE
Coveralls & Smocks ......................................36
Definition.............................................9, 64
Definition -Winter Months................................28
Delete Old Job Classification............................18
Dental Plan..............................................47
Dischargecases...........................................34
Disturbance ..............................................9
Duration of Agreement....................................50
Early Voluntary Retirement ..............................46
Effective Date...........................................41
Emergencies..............................................18
Employee ..............................................9
Employee Notice of Incident..............................34
Entry To Program - New Apprentices.......................66
Establish/Delete Classification..........................18
Extended Health..........................................36
First Aid Attendant......................................29
hirst Aid Certificate and Bonus..........................56
First Aid Transportation.................................30
General................................................26.35
ARTICLE
XIII
I
IX VI
XXII
XII I
XXVI
XX
XIX
V I
XI
Appendix ‘D'
VI
XIII
X
Appendix 'A
X
IX
SECTION
1
3
3
2
1
10
1
1
CO <£= CO CO CO IT) <£>
II1LICA
PAGE
General Principles........................................65
General Provisions........................................29
Grievance Committee.......................................31
Group Life Insurance .....................................36
Health &Welfare Plans.....................................36
Hearing Aid, Glasses & Prescriptions .....................49
Helper....................................................50
Hours of Work .........................................13,60
Industrial Health & Safety Committee .....................29
Job Vacancies ............................................22
Joint Company/Union Apprenticeship Committee .............66
Jury Duty Pay.............................................37
Labour Disputes...........................................37
Labour Management Meetings ...............................50
Lay Offs and Re-Hiring ...................................21
Leave for Union Business..................................39
Leave for Union Reps .....................................39
Leave of Absence .........................................24
Letters of Understanding
A.T.O.-Vacation Implementation.........................77
Outside Contractors ...................................71
ARTICLE
Apprendix ‘D’
X
XI XIII
XIII
xxrv
Appendix ‘A’ V X VII
Appendix ‘D’
XIV
XV XXV
VII XVIII XVIII
VIII
SECTION
2
1
1
w W hi NO ^
INDEX
PAGE
Pension Plan..........................................70
Power House...........................................74
Single Named Arbitrator...............................79
Unloading Sugar Boats.................................73
Repayment of Sick Leave Benefits......................81
Sample Agreement to Re-pay Sick Leave Benefits........83
Loss of Seniority.......................................23
Management..............................................12
Matemity/Parental Leave.................................24
Members of Union........................................11
M.S.P. Re: Retired Employee and M.S.A...................36
M.S.P. Medical and Extended Health .....................36
Names of Committee......................................31
New Job Classifications ................................18
New Technology..........................................38
Notification of Hiring & Discharges ....................24
No Verbal Waning........................................34
No Work Stoppage........................................30
Number of Apprentices...................................64
Optional by Job Classification.	 57
ARTICLE	SECTION
VII IV
VIII III
XIII
XIII
XI
VI
XVII
VII XI XI
Appendix ‘D’ Appendix 'A'
6
2
1

PAGE
Outside Contractors ......................................71
Overtime Paid.............................................13
Parental Leave ...........................................26
Payday....................................................36
Pay - Reimbursement For Leave ............................41
Pension Plan..............................................41
Personal Preference.......................................57
Power of the Board of Arbitration.........................34
Power House Engineers ....................................74
Probationary Period ......................................23
Promotions................................................21
Pronoun ..................................................10
Qualifying Period (Vacation) .............................18
Rates/Classifi cations....................................18
Rates For Employees Whose Job Becomes Redundant...........19
Rates While Training......................................19
Re-hiring.................................................21
Reinstatement ............................................34
Request...................................................24
Request for New Employees.................................47
Rest Periods .............................................17
Retirees Extended Health..................................36
ARTICLE
V VIII XIII
XVIII
XIX
Appendix ‘A
XI
VII
VII
I
IX
VI
VI
VI
VII
XII
VIII XXI
V
XIII
SEC I ION
1
1
4
5 2 1 1
8
4
a* <r cn oo ns
INDEX
Retirees M.S.P. .....................................
Retraining...........................................
Return to Work.......................................
Safety Committee.....................................
Safety Footwear Refund...............................
Schedule of Training For Apprentices ................
Seniority ...........................................
Severance Pay........................................
Shift Premiums.......................................
Shifts ..............................................
Single Named Arbitrator..............................
Spares ..............................................
Standard Work Flours.................................
Statutory Holidays ..................................
Stats on Saturday & Sunday ..........................
Steps of Grievance Procedure ........................
Strike Bound Firm....................................
Sub-Section of Section 96 - Industrial Relations Act of B.C.
Supervisors..........................................
Supplement ..........................................
PAGE
...36 ...39 ...37 ...29 ...30 ...68 ...20 ...38 ... 17 ...60 .. .81 ...62 . .. 13 ...15 ... 16 ...31 ...37 51,34 ... 12 ...46
ARTICLE
XIII
XVII
xrv
X
X
Appendix ‘D’ VII XVII
V
Appendix ‘B’
Appendix‘C’
V
V
V
XI XV XI III XX
SECTION
1
7
2
1
4^.	O!) H	<£>	<J	K) 4^
Surplus and Deadlock.....................................
Temporary Change of Job..................................
Time Limits..............................................
Tool Allowance...........................................
Tool Insurance...........................................
Transportation for Medical Aid...........................
Two Seniority Lists......................................
Union Business...........................................
Union Activities.........................................
Union Dues...............................................
Union Grievance Committee................................
Union Recognition .......................................
Union Security...........................................
Unloading Sugar Boats..............................
Vacation.................................................
Vacation Arrangement ....................................
Vacation Entitlement.....................................
Vacation Pay..........................................27.
Vacations Scheduled......................................
Wages...................................... .............
Wage Advances............................................
W.C.B. Cases.............................................
45
18
33
58
58
30 20 39 10 11
31 10 11 73 26 26 27 29 26 18 29 19
XIX
VI
XI
Appendix 'A' Appendix 'A'
X
VII XVIII
II
III
XI
II
III
IX
IX
IX
IX
IX
VI
IX
VC
1
2
2(b)
1
4
6
	INDEX		
	PAGE	ARTICLE	SECTION
W.C.R. Regulations 			30	X	4
Weekly Indemnity 			35	XIII	1
Winter Months (Vacation) 			28	IX	3
Working Through Lunch 			16	V	6