COLLECTIVE LABOUR AGREEMENT
Made this 22nd day of May, 2007 BETWEEN
JUL 0
MOIRS DIVISION, HERSHEY CANADA INC.
T7	Pleasant Street, Dartmouth, Nova Scotia
referred to as the “Company”
OF THE FIRST PART
- and -
LOCAL UNION 625 OF THE INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF ELECTRICAL WORKERS
hereinafter referred to as the “Union”
OF THE SECOND PART
Witnesseth that the Company and the Union hereby mutually agree as follows:
ARTICLE 1- OBJECTS OF THIS AGREEMENT
»
A.	The intent and purpose of this Agreement shall be to promote and improve industrial and economic relations in the industry, to establish and maintain a high degree of discipline and efficiency and to set forth herein the basic agreements covering rates of pay, hours of work and conditions of employment.
B.	The parties hereto desire to co-operate in establishing and maintaining proper and suitable conditions in the industry which will tend to secure equitable terms of employment satisfactory to the Company and employees, to provide methods for fair and peaceful adjustments of all disputes which may arise between them, and foster goodwill, friendly relations and understanding between the parties.
ARTICLE 2- BARGAINING UNIT
A.	This Agreement will apply to all employees in the bargaining unit defined by Order No. 258 of the Nova Scotia Labour Relations Board and the works “employee” and “employees” used herein refer only to such employees. ‘
ARTICLE 3 - MUTUAL RIGHTS AND BENEFITS
A.	No employee shall be asked or permitted to make any verbal or written contracts with the Company which may limit, alter, modify or conflict with the stipulations of this Agreement without prior agreement between the Union and the Company.
B.	There shall be no lockout by the Company and no strike by the Union during the term of this Agreement.
C.	The Union acknowledges that it is the exclusive function of the Company:
(1)	To maintain order, discipline and efficiency.
(2)	To hire, discharge, transfer, promote, classify, demote or discipline employees, provided that a claim of discriminatory promotion, demotion or transfer or a claim that an employee has been discharged or disciplined without reasonable cause may be the subject of a grievance dealt with as hereinafter provided.
(3)	Generally to manage, control, continue, discontinue, in whole or in part, the industrial enterprise in which the company is engaged.
D.	A Union Official or Shop Steward shall be present when a member of management has a meeting with a group of employees dealing with working conditions. The employee shall have the right to have a shop steward present in any disciplinary matters.
ARTICLE 4- UNION SECURITY
A.	Any employee hired after the commencement of this Agreement shall, as a condition of employment, upon completion of a period of forty-five (45) working days of employment, sign and deposit with the Company an approved check-off form authorizing the Company to deduct and pay the Union an amount equivalent to its initiation fees and monthly dues. Such check-off form shall, when deposited with the Company, be irrevocable except during the period of sixty (60) days immediately preceding the expiry date of this Agreement so long and to the extent that the law permits.
B.	Subject to the provisions of Clause “B” of this Article, the Company shall deduct monthly from the pay of all employees who have so deposited check-off forms, the initiation fees, dues and/or assessments designated by the Union and shall remit them not later than the
15th day of the month to the Union, together with a list of all persons who have ceased to be or have become employees since the preparation of the preceding list.
C.	If the employee is absent or on vacation at the time any deduction should be made from his pay, such deduction shall be made from the first full pay which he receives following his return to work and shall be remitted to the Union not later than the 15th day of the following month.
2
ARTICLE 5- UNION REPRESENTATION
A.	The Union shall have the right to appoint a Shop Steward for the employees; if necessary, additional Stewards may be appointed. All Shop Stewards shall be employees in the shop for which they are Stewards. There shall be no discrimination against Stewards for Union activities.
B.	The Union shall keep the Company advised in writing of the names of the Shop Stewards.
C.	The Union representative shall, with the Company’s permission, be permitted to enter the Company’s premises on Union business so long as he does not unduly interfere with the work in progress.
ARTICLE 6- GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
A.	Differences of interpretation or the violation by the Company or any employee of any of the provisions of this Agreement shall be considered a grievance, provided that no complaint by an employee shall be considered a grievance until he has given his immediate Supervisor an opportunity to deal with it. The Supervisor must deal with it within one (1) working day. No grievance shall be considered unless it is submitted within ten (10) working days after the happening of the event which gives rise to the grievance.
B.	The Procedure for processing the grievance of an employee or group of employees shall be as follows:
(1)	The Steward, acting on behalf of the employee or group of employees, shall, within four (4) working days, submit the grievance in writing to the department Supervisor or other immediate Supervisor, whose decision shall be rendered within two (2) working days.
(2)	Failing an answer or satisfactory settlement, the Chief Steward or designated Union Representative shall within ten (10) working days submit the grievance in writing to the Company’s Plant Manager or his designated representative who shall meet with the Union representative and render a decision within three (3) working days.
(3)	Failing an answer or satisfactory settlement, the grievance shall be referred to an arbitration board in accordance with Article 7 of this Agreement. It should be noted that the decision to go to arbitration must be made within a period of ten (10) working days after the failure to reach a satisfactory settlement in the grievance procedure.
3
(4)	If in case an extension may be required to Article 6or 7, this will only be acceptable by mutual agreement of both the Company and the Union.
ARTICLE 7 - ARBITRATION
A.	No matter shall be submitted to a single arbitrator until after it has been processed under the grievance procedure set out in Article 6 of this Agreement.
B.	When notice of arbitration is given by the Union or Company, each shall, within the ensuing four (4) days, choose an arbitrator and notify the other of its choice.
C.	The single arbitrator’s fees and expenses shall be paid for by the Union and the Company.
D.	Should either party refuse or neglect to appoint its arbitrator within the time stipulated in Clause “B” and “C” of this Article 7, such appointment or appointments shall be made by the Minister of Labour of Nova Scotia.
E.	The decision of the arbitrator shall be given within fourteen (14) days after the appointment and his view shall be binding on both the Union and the Company. The arbitrator shall not be authorized to make any decision inconsistent with the provisions of this Agreement or to delete, alter or modify any part thereof.
ARTICLE 8 - SENIORITY
A.	The purpose of seniority is to provide a policy governing promotions, transfers, lay-offs and re-hirings.
B.	Upon completion of a probationary working period of ninety (90) working days within a period of twelve (12) months, every employee in the bargaining unit shall acquire seniority rights, but his seniority shall be calculated from the date of his hiring. However, that probationary period may be extended with the mutual agreement of the Company and the Union.
For the purpose of calculating “working days” in this paragraph B (and without restricting the meaning for the phrase), all holidays, vacation days or any other absence of the individual employee will not be included in the calculation.
C.	An employee shall forfeit his seniority if he voluntarily resigns, is discharged for just cause or is absent for three (3) consecutive working days without notifying the Company or without reasonable excuse.
D.	Inability to work because of proven illness or injury with medical evidence shall not result in the loss of seniority rights, but the Company shall not be obliged to reinstate the employee in his formerjob. Time lost from work owing to illness or injury within the
4
limits set out by this Clause shall be included in the employee’s seniority rating. If the employee does not agree with the Company’s doctor, he shall have the right to ask for mutual agreed independent medical opinion.
Where an employee has one (1) year’s continuous service, is physically injured at work and is unable to perform the job he had prior to the injury, the rate of the job performed prior to the injury will be maintained on the newj ob the employee performs and for which the rate is lower. Such protection will be effective for a period not to exceed nine (9) months. Rate increases will not be granted to these persons until such time as their protected rate was equal to or less than the rate of the job.
Injury at work shall not result in the loss of any seniority rights and the employee(s) concerned shall be reinstated in their former position provided the injury has not resulted in a physical handicap to do their formerjob. If an employee is unable to perform his or her j ob as a result of physical injury at work, the employee shall be given the opportunity to train for another position providing there is a position available and he is capable of performing the work according to the Company’s doctor.
E.	Any employee who is laid off shall be retained on the seniority list for a period for twelve (12) months. If he is requested to return to work during this period, he shall forfeit his seniority unless, within three (3) working days after the date of the request (in writing, to the address on file with the Company), he notifies the Company of his intention to return to work and, within the ten (10) working days after the date of the request, reports for work. However, if he is incapacitated from proven illness or injury at the time of such request or becomes so during the ensuingten (10) days, “D” ofthis Article shall apply.
ARTICLE 9 - PROMOTIONS. TRANSFERS. LAYOFFS. REHIRINGS
A.	In promotions, transfers, layoffs and rehirings, qualifications and skill being relatively equal, seniority shall be the governing factor. The decision of the Company shall govern as to skill.
B.	The company shall post all job openings and vacancies, including foremen and give senior ‘employeesfirst opportunity to bid on suchjobs so long as they have the necessary qualifications. Suchj obs are to be posted for three (3) full working days.
C.	Any employee who feels that he has been unjustly dealt with in any promotion, transfer, layoff or rehiring, may have recourse to the grievance procedure set out in Article 6 of this Agreement.
D.	The Company will provide employees with a week’s notice of a change in their shift schedule. However, in circumstances where unscheduled changes must occur, employees will receive a minimum of twenty-four (24) hours’ notice. Scheduled days off will not be included in the twenty-four (24) hours’ notice.
5
ARTICLE 10 - DISCIPLINE
A.	The right to discharge, or otherwise discipline employees, shall remain at the discretion of the Company, except that there shall be no discharge or disciplinary action without just cause and such action subject to the grievance procedure.
B.	The normal procedure in disciplining employees shall firstly to verbally warm the employee and to record this warning on the employee’s record card. Secondly, to issue a written warning and to furnish a copy to the Department Steward. A repetition of the offence or another offence be the same employee automatically involves suspension. The length of such suspension is to be at the discretion of the Plant Manager or his automatically involve discharge or suspension on the first offence. This, of course, is subject to the grievance procedure. Where a discharge or suspension is involved, a Shop Steward shall be called in to be present at the interview between the employee and the management representative. The Shop Steward shall be informed of the suspension or discharge prior to the interview.
C.	Three (3) months after the issuing of a formal verbal warning, the warning so given for the purpose of this section shall be automatically cancelled. Six (6)months after the issuing of a first written warning, the warning likewise will be automatically cancelled if no further disciplinary action has been committed. In cases of where the Company has given a third disciplinary warning which involves suspension, such third disciplinary notice shall be automatically cancelled after twelve (12) months.
D.	Whenever an employee is discharged, the Company shall immediately notify the discharged employee in writing of his discharge and the reason thereof.
E.	The Company shall pay any discharged employee all his wages in full as soon as possible after his discharge and after any liability owed by him to the Company has been paid or satisfied.
F.	A complaint by an employee that he has been unjustly discharged shall be considered a grievance. In processing such a grievance, the first step of the grievance procedure shall be dispensed with the grievance shall be submitted to the Company’s Plant Manager or his designated representative within three(3) working days after the discharge.
G.	Any employee found, through the grievance procedure or arbitration, to have been unjustly discharged shall, within three (3) working days after the date of settlement or the decision of the arbitration board, be reinstated in his former position with full compensation for time lost and all seniority rights.
6
ARTICLE 11 -PAID HOLIDAYS
A.	New Year’s Day, Heritage Day, Good Friday, Easter Monday, Queen’s Birthday, Dominion Day, Dartmouth Natal Day, Labour Day, Thanksgiving Day, Remembrance Day, Christmas Day and Boxing Day shall be considered paid holidays during the term of this Agreement.
B.	All employees who are not required to work on a paid holiday and who have worked the last scheduled working day before and the first scheduled working day after such holiday shall be paid an amount calculated by multiplying their hourly rate by the number of hours they regularly work in normal working day.
All employees shall have worked the working day immediately preceding and immediately following the holiday. Exceptions to the latter requirement will be made when an employee is absent on either or both of the said shifts only because of verified personal illness, (subject to compliance with the following paragraph), death in his immediate family or if he has been given permission by his Superintendent or his designated superior to be absent.
If an employee wishes to be paid for the holiday, but is absent on a qualifying day due to illness, then a doctor’s certificate shall he furnished on the first day of return to work if possible. There shall be a grace period of five (5) working days to furnish the doctor’s certificate, but it is understood that providing the doctor’s certificate during the grace period may result in payment of the holiday pay being delayed by one (1) week. If a doctor’s certificate is not provided during the five (5) working days’ grace period, the holiday pay shall be forfeited.
C.	Except in emergencies, employees shall only be requested and not compelled to work on a paid holiday.
D.	When an employee is required to work on a paid holiday, or any part thereof, the company shall (in addition to any holiday pay to which the employee is entitled) pay the employee at the rate of double time for the tome worked on such holiday, and/or the employee would be entitled to receive one (1) normal day off with pay in lieu of the statutory holiday by arrangement with his immediate supervisor.
Overtime at the rate of triple (3) of his hourly rate will be paid to an employee for any hours worked beyond eight (8) on a paid holiday.
E.	When a paid holiday falls on a Saturday or Sunday, it shall be observed on the Friday or Monday by agreement between the Company and the Union.
ARTICLE 12-PAID VACATIONS
A.	Vacation with pay will be granted in accordance with the following schedule:
7
(a)	1 year’s service
(b)	5 year’s service
(c)	10	year’s	service
(d)	18	year’s	service
(e)	25	year’s	service
(f)	30	year’s	service
2	weeks’ vacation
3	weeks’ vacation
4	weeks’ vacation
5	weeks’ vacation
6	weeks’ vacation
$300 payable annually on the last pay period in November
Employees’ service with the Company at December 31st of the year in which vacation is taken shall be the measure of vacation entitlement.
B.	Pay for vacation referred to above will be at two percent (2%) per week of vacation, of the employee’s gross wages in the previous calendar year.
In the case of sickness duly recognized by the group Insurance Plan or in the case of an accident, by the Workers’ Compensation Board, the Company shall calculate a regular week of forty (40) hours for each week lost due to the above reason, in order to calculate the vacation pay entitlement.
C.	The Company may require all employees to take a vacation during any period between July 15th and September 15th that the plant is shut down for that purpose. The Company may also require a Christmas Shutdown between the period of December 25th and December 31st.
D.	Employees of the Electrical Department scheduled to remain on duty during the period the plant is shut down shall be allowed their vacation at some time mutually agreeable to the employee and the Company. All such employees entitled to three (3) or more weeks’ vacation shall have three (3) of their weeks consecutively if the employee so desires.
E.	Should any employee’s service terminate, he shall receive, at the termination of his services with the Company, compensation to be calculated on the basis of four percent (4%), six percent (6%), eightpercent (8%), ten percent (10%), or twelve percent (12%), depending on the employee’s entitlement under Section 12A, 12B above.
F.	All deductions normally made from an employee’ sregular pay shall be made from his vacation pay.
G.	Employees shall not be allowed to carry over vacation allowance from one (1) year to the next, except in extenuating circumstances.
H.	When the plant is shut down for vacation purposes, any employee not entitled to vacation pay under Rule 12B of this Article shall be required to take time off without pay unless the Company is able to provide work for him during that period.
8
ARTICLE 13 -ABSENCES
A.	Union delegates and officers may be absent without pay to attend Union Conventions so long as the Company is given two (2) weeks’ notice of such absences so that any necessary adjustments may be made. The Company shall promptly acknowledge receipt of such notice under said Section.
B.	When an employee is absent due to illness or injury, providing the employee has been in the employ of the Company for a continuous period of two (2)years on the date of becoming ill or injured, his job may be filled temporarily for the periods of seniority protection as provided in Article 8D. If, at the end of these times, as provided in Article 8D, the employee has not returned to work, the job may be declared vacant and posted as a job vacancy.
C.	When an employee is granted leave of absence for personal reasons for a period not exceeding one (1) month, providing the employee has been in the employ of the Company for a period of five (5) years on the date of receiving such a leave, his j ob may be filled temporarily for a period of one (1) month. If, at the end of this time, the employee has not returned to work, the j ob may be declared vacant and posted as aj ob vacancy.
D.	Where the spouse, child, father, mother, grandchild or guardian of any employee dies and such employee has completed his probationary period with the Company, such employee shall not, because of absence from work, lose any pay during four (4) consecutive working days following the death. The day after the funeral shall be the last working day in the period of bereavement. When the brother, sister, father-in-law or mother-in-law of any employee dies and such employee has completed his probationary period with the Company, such employee shall not, because of absence from work, lose any pay during three (3) consecutive working day’s following the death. The day after the funeral shall be the last working day in the period of bereavement. When the grandparents, brother-in - law, sister-in-law of any employee dies and the employee has completed his probationary period with the Company, he shall not, because of absence from work, lose any pay during two (2) consecutive working days following the death. The day after the funeral shall be the last day in the period of bereavement. The employee shall notify the Company of any such death. Extenuating circumstances shall be considered by the Company.
E.	The short term disability insurance coverage will be sixty-six and two- thirds percent (66-2/3%) of your regular weekly earnings, subject to the current maximum established by the Unemployment Insurance Commission for the first twenty-six (26) weeks of disability.
Where an employee who had a least one (1) year’s seniority with the Employer, is off work and has satisfactorily demonstrated that he is entitled to benefits under the Short Term Disability Plan or the Workers’ CompensationAct, the Employer shall advance to such employee the weekly benefit for which the employee has demonstrated entitlement
9
and the employee shall assign the employee’s right to equivalent payment under the Short Term Disability Plan or Workers’ CompensationAct and the employee shall further endorse over to the Employer and deliver the cheque for such amount immediately upon receipt by the employee.
F.	An employee who loses time from his regularly scheduled work as a result of Jury Service or Witness shall have the difference between the pay received for such service and his straight time earnings (eight (8) hours in a day, forty (40) hours in a week) he would have received if it were not for the Service, made up by the Company, subject to the following conditions:
(a)	Advance notice in writing to his Supervisor for forty-eight (48) hours.
(b)	Proof of Service satisfactory to the Company.
(c)	After release from serving, the employee shall report to work the following day.
(d)	An employee on the night shift shall not be required to report for work on the night of the same day on which he serves or on the night before where he has a reasonable expectation of such serving.
G.	The Company will provide a Long Term Disability Plan to a limit of fifty percent (50%) of Base Wages.
H.	The Company shall pay One Hundred and Fifty Dollars($200.00) once every two (2) years towards the cost of an employee’s and an employee’s eligible dependant’s glasses. For the employees, these glasses must have safety lenses.
I.	Drug Card Plan:
•	Plan pays seventy-five percent (75%) reimbursement for Brand name drugs and ninety-five percent (95%) for generic drugs.
•	Dispensing fee. Plan covers up to Seven Dollars ($7.00).
•	No annual Deductible.
•	Positive dependent enrolment & co-ordination of benefits.
•	One Thousand Dollars ($1,000.00) per person out-of- pocket maximum.
J.	Life Insurance: Company agrees to provide and pay for Fifty Thousand Dollars ($50,000.00) accidental life insurance per employee due to the high risk nature of the occupation.
K.	Pension- There will be a transition to the Hershey pension plan (no employee contributions) effective on signing of this Collective Agreement. Optional Retirement Savings Plan available to employees on a voluntary basis.
10
ARTICLE 14 - WAGES
A.	Subject to the provision of Clause “B” and “C” of this Article, and to the provision of Article 18, the wages and salaries set out in Appendix “A” of this Agreement shall be paid during the term of this Agreement.
B.	When shift work is performed, a shift differential shall be paid as follows for all hours worked on such shifts.
Duration of Agreement
3 p.m,-l 1 p.m. Afternoon Shift	.65/hr
11 p.m.-7 a.m. Night Shift	.65/hr
C.	Employees shall be paid on a weekly basis by bank deposit on Thursday and shall receive a deposit statement with all deductions plainly marked thereon. If errors occur as a result of a Company mistake, all monies in excess of one (1) hours’ pay will be paid in that pay week. All other amounts will be corrected in the following week.
ARTICLES 15 -HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
A.	Hours of work, overtime and miscellaneous other matters shall be governed by the
regulations set out in Appendix “B” of this Agreement.
ARTICLES 16- BULLETIN BOARDS
A. The Union may post notices of Union meetings and other activities on a bulletin board provided for the purpose and conspicuously placed. Such notices shall have the prior approval of the Company’s Personnel Manager or designated representative.
ARTICLE 17 - MEDICAL EXAMINATIONS
A.	Every employee shall, at the Company’s request and expense, submit to medical examinations by medical examiners selected by the Company, but the Union may, if it thinks that an injustice may have been done, request any employee to submit, at the Union’s expense, to medical examinations by medical examiners selected by the Union.
B.	The Company will reimburse the Employee for the cost of completion of the Occupational Fitness Assessment forms requested by the Company.
11
ARTICLE 18-GENERAL
A.	Any employee presently receiving more than the hourly rate provided for his j ob by the Agreement, shall suffer no decrease through the sighing of this Agreement and any employee enjoying working conditions more favourable that those stipulated in this Agreement shall continue to enjoy them.
B.	An employee who is temporarily transferred from his regular j ob to another with a higher rate shall be paid the higher rate for all the time worked on such other job, but an employee who is temporarily transferred from his regular job to another job with a lower rate shall continue to receive his regular rate for all time worked on such otherjob.
C.	The Union Shall have the privilege of negotiating with the Company rates for new types of work not established by this Agreement and such rates, when agreed upon, shall be effective from the date such new type of work is commenced.
D.	The Company agrees to classify all employees in the bargaining unit and furnish a copy of the same to the Union. Before making any amendments to the classification,the Company shall discuss such amendments with the Union.
E.	Each full-time employee who is displaced from his employment by reason of the permanent closing of a department, or by the introduction of labour saving equipment will be entitled to a severance allowance. The size of this allowance will be related to years of service as shown in the schedule below:
Years of Service
Less than 5 years 5-6 years 7-8 years 9-10 years 11-12 years 13-14 years 15-16 years 17-18 years 19-20 years 21-22 years 23-24 years 25-26 years 27 + years
Weeks of Pay
0 weeks
3	weeks
4	weeks
5	weeks
6	weeks
7	weeks
8	weeks
9	weeks
10	weeks
11	weeks
12	weeks
13	weeks 18 weeks
F.	Boot allowance: All employees will be given an allowance of one hundred and fifty dollars ($1 50) for safety shoeshoots each year. Plant cleaners will receive an additional One Hundred and Fifty Dollars ($150) for safety shoes/boots due to abnormal wear caused by the nature of their job.
(a) The above allowances will be paid by separate cheque with the last pay in July to all employees who are working or have received notice of recall.
12
Employees in other positions (that is, other than Plant Cleaner) which cause abnormal wear may request an additional pair of safety shoeshoots throughout the year. Upon approval by management, the employees will be reimbursed for purchase price up to One Hundred and Fifty Dollars ($150) with proper receipts.
All safety shoeshoots purchased under this Article must be CSA approved and must have anti-slip soles.
ARTICLE 19- SCOPE OF WORK
The jurisdiction of the electrical worker shall include any and all electrical work within the boundaries of the Plant. It shall include, but is not limited to, the following: all electronic work,
13
all control cabinet work, all pic work, and all electrical on robotic work, and all programming relating to electrical trouble shooting.
ARTICLE 20-DURATIQN OF THIS AGREEMENT
This Agreement shall be in full force and effect from the 22nd day of May, 2007 to the 31st day of March 2008.
In witness whereof, the parties have hereto signed: FOR THE UNION
14
APPENDIX A
SCHEDULE OF WAGE RATES
Mav22/07
Apprentice Electrician	%
1st year O-lOOOhrs	60
1001-2000 hrs	65
14.09
15.27
2nd year 2001-3000 hrs	70
3001-4000 hrs	75
16.44
17.61
3rd year 4001-5000 hrs	80
5001-6000 hrs	85
18.79
19.97
4th year 6001-7000 hrs	90
7001-8000 hrs	95
21.14
22.32
Journeyman Electrician I Robotics Specialist Electrical Co-ordinator (Leadhand) Electrical Technician
23.49
24.05
24.64
24.64
The above Apprenticeship Program Rates will apply to persons employed only upon fulfillment of conditions laid down under the Apprenticeship Act.
During the term an Apprentice is attending trade school, the Company will continue to pay him his prevailing rate on a weekly basis. The employee will file the Unemployment Insurance Benefits and will reimburse the full amount for the duration of his schooling.
The above rates reflect the following:
May 22/07-Increase of 2.7%
15
APPENDIX ‘B’
HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME REGULATIONS
NO GUARANTEE OF WORK
1.	Company does not guarantee to provide work for any employee during regular assigned or any other hours.
NORMAL WORK WEEK
2.	Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, the normal hours of work shall be: eight (8) hours per day and forty (40) hours per week, Monday through Friday inclusive. The Company may, at any time, determine that any employee shall work regular assigned hours that are less than normal work week. For definition purposes, the payment shall be from 11:00 P.M. Saturday to 10:59 P.M. the following Saturday.
3.	Because of the nature of the industry, certain preparatory work must be completed before the production lines can be operated and thus, the starting hours of employees engaged in such preparatory work must vary.
4.	Shift selection for fixed shifts will be based on overall Plant seniority. Employees will be permitted to trade shifts for extenuating circumstances with supervisors’ approval.
OVERTIME
5.	When scheduled overtime is required, the Company shall notify employees on the previous working day. This shall not apply for replacements required for shift workers who do not report for work, nor in the case of emergency overtime where equipment breakdowns or loss of perishable materials are involved. Except in cased of emergencies, an employee shall not be required to work overtime in excess of two(2) nights per week during the period Monday to Friday inclusive or eight (8) hours within the above period.
OVERTIME PAY
6.	Overtime at one and one-half (1-1/2) his hourly rate shall be paid to any employee who works in excess of his regular eight (8) hours of work on any given day or his regular scheduled day off. Overtimeat time and one-half (1-1/2) his hourly rate shall be paid for the first eight (8) hours of overtime on any given day excluding Saturday, at which time, on these days, it shall be paid at double time after eight (8) hours of work at time and one-half (1-1/2).
Overtime at one and a half (1-1/2) time will be paid irrespective of hours worked during the normal shift to somebody who had ajust cause to be absent part of his regular day and who is asked to work unscheduled overtime that day.
16
7.	Overtime at twice (2) his hourly rate shall be paid to any employee who works on Sunday unless, as pursuant to this agreement, he receives another day off in lieu of the Sunday on which he works.
8.	When an employee is called back to work after he has left the Company property, he shall be paid a minimum of four (4) hours’ pay, at time and one-half (1-1/2) his regular rate of pay, or pay for the hours worked at the appropriate rate, whichever is the greater. This provision shall not apply where the employee is called into work prior to his regular shift and continues to work his regular shift. He shall only perform the job for which he was called in.
UNAUTHORIZED WORKING
9.	No employee shall be paid either on a straight time or on an overtime basis, for any work done or any time shown on the electronic time keeping system before his regularly assigned starting time or after his regularly assigned finish time, unless on each occasion his Department Supervisor has given his authorization.
LUNCH
10.	Employees shall be allowed a lunch period of one-half (1/2) hour without pay daily. The Company may vary or stagger this period to suit production requirements.
11.	Clause 9 of this Appendix shall not apply to shift work and shift workers shall be allowed twenty (20) minutes to have their lunch on the job.
12.	To any employee required to work more than two (2) hours of overtime following completion of his regular shift, the Company shall pay a lunch allowance for Seven Dollars ($7.00).
ELECTRONIC TIME KEEPING SYSTEM
13.	All employees shall be required to swipe in when reporting for work and swipe out when leaving at the end of their regular shift, if leaving early, or on the completion of overtime.
14.	An employee who swipes in once a week up to three (3) minutes late will not incur any penalty subject to Clause 8 of this Appendix. However, an employee shall only be paid thereafter for the time swiped on his time electronic time card.
15.	Repeated early or late swiping shall cause an employee to be subject to discipline as set forth in Article 10 of this Agreement.
16.	Subj ect to Clause 8 of this Appendix, an employee shall be entitled to be paid only for the time swiped on his electronic time card less any penalties which he has incurred.
17
17.	Any employee on an afternoon shift or night shift who is unable to report for work must notify the Company at least one (1) hour prior to the start of their shift.
18.	No employee shall swipe the other than his own time card. Failing to comply with this clause may be cause for dismissal.
REST PERIODS
19.	Effective April 1st, 1985, all employees shall be entitled to two (2) twelve (12) minutes break periods per day in addition to the lunch break through to October 19, 1985.Effective October 20, 1985, these breaks will be reduced to two (2) ten (10) minutes breaks.
20.	When any shift employee or an employee connected with shiftwork operation is required to work overtime, he shall be allowed a twelve (12) minutes break period prior to working overtime plus a twenty (20) minute paid lunch break for overtime of four (4) or more hours’ duration. Such periods to be at the discretion of the Department Supervisor so as not to interfere with the efficiency of production.
21.	All employees will be given an allowance of One Hundred and Fifty Dollars ($150.00) for safety shoes, or One Hundred and Fifty Dollars ($150.00) for safety boots each year. This allowance will be paid by separate cheque on the last pay in July of each year. Entitlement will be prorated over the twelve (12) month period for new employees.
22.	An allowance of $300.00 for replacement of broken or worn tools purchased by the Company will be provided.
23.	New employees will be given five (5) uniforms. Worn and tom uniforms will be turned in for replacement when required. The company with provide one (1) jacket (with name on it) per employee.
24.	Employees shall receive their overtime pay with their regular pay. With supervisory approval, employees may be granted time off up to forty (40) hours per year without pay from the banked hour program (in addition to vacation entitlement under Article 12) which will not be recorded as an absence.
25.	Meetings, training programs, equipment inspections or any otherjob related assignments which keep an employee away from home overnight will be compensated for travel time, meals, plus any time spent on site, but will not exceed eight (8) hours per day. Saturdays and Sundays are treated the same as weekdays.
An employees traveling on Saturday or Sunday for assignment scheduled to begin Monday will be compensated for the days spent away from home. The Company agrees to provide a Twenty-Five Dollar ($25.00) per day incidental allowance.
26.	TRAINING- As specific training needs are identified by either the employee or the Company, up to five (5) days training will be provided during each calendar year.
18
LETTER OF__________________

(Re Contracting Out)
If the Company decides to contract out any electrical work, then it is the Company's intention to contract this work out to a Unionized electrical contractor. If, for some reason, this becomes a problem with the Company because the cost factor involved is a substantial difference to the Company, then the Company and Union will meet to discuss this matter with hopes of resolving the problem.
DATED this 22nd day of May, 2007
FOR THE UNION
FOR THE COMPANY
U
19
LETTER OF UNERSTANDING
(Re Retro pay)
The wage settlements will be retroactive to the April 1,2007
DATED this 22nd day of May, 2007
FOR THE UNION
20