COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
LANTIC SUGAR LIMITED
AND
LOCAL NO. 443 OF THE
BAKERY, CONFECTIONERY ANDTOBACCO WORKERS INTERNATIONALUNION
Effectivefrom
May1,1996 to August31,1998
INDEX
17_
Title	Article	Page
Adjustment (PowerOf The Board)................6.2.......11
AdjustmentBoard...............................6.3..
Adjustment Procedures.......................  5.0..
Arbitration...................................6.0..
ArbitrationCost...............................6,5..
Arbitration Procedure.........................6.4..
(alsosee Grievances)
BereavementLeave...............................14,2
Call-out Pay.................................12,4..
ContinuousSchedules.....................................101
DenlalRan...................................  14.12........65
Dues Deduction................................8.0..
Duration Of The Agreement.....................1.0.,
Education Leave................................18.0......  70
Grievances...................................  6.40........13
(see also Adjustment Procedures)
Guarantees By The Company and Union.............3.0.........3
Holidays (Statutory and Negotiated)............10.4........39
Job Potting.....................................9.5........20
JuryDuty.....................................  14.5........59
Lay-off.........................................9.7........26
Lay-offs (Notification)........................9.11......  3G
Leave of Absence lorUnionOfficials..............7.0........15
Licensing ....................................14.14........66
(see alsoMaintenanceTickets)
Life Insurance.................................14.9........61
Long Term Disability..........................14.10........62
Maintenance Tickets...........................14.14........66
(see alsoUcensing)
ManagementRights „„„„„........................  4.0.........5

Title
Article Page
MealAllowance..............................14.3	.
Medical Insurance.........................14.11	.
Overtime...................................13.2	.
Overtimeand Premium Pay....................13.0	.
Overtime Computation.......................13.1	.
Overtime No Pyramiding.....................13.5	.
Personnel Files............................17.0	.
PowerhouseShiftSchedules.........................
PremiumPay.................................13.3	„
..58 ..64 ..52 ..51 .. 51 ..56 ..70 ..89 ..54
(Sundays. Saturdays, Holidays)
Probationary Employees..........................9.1	 18
Progression.....................................9.6.......23
Promotion.......................................9.2.......19
Promotions(Temporary)...........................9.5.......22
Raiesof PayonTransfer..........................12.3.......49
RegularHours Per Day and Per Week..............10.0.......34
Restand Lunch Periods..........................10.2.......37
Safety........................................14.15.......66
Safety Footwear................................14.7.......60
Schedule Of Wages.........................................72
Seniority (Definition).........................17.0.......10
Seniority (Restrictions on Application).........9.6.......26
SeniorityfTermination)..........................9.9	.
Severance Pay..................................9.10	.
Shift Differentials............................13.4	.
Sick Leave Program.................;..........14.6 .
TechnologicalChange............................16.0	.
Tool Allowance.................................14.8	.
Tradesmen......................................19.0	.
Transportation.................................14.1	.
,...27
...28
,...56
,..59
...68
,..60
,119
...57
Title
Article Page
Uniforms..........,.............
UnionRecognltlon................
Vacation (Holiday DuringVacation) ••
Vacation Dates..................
Vacation Pay....................
Vacation Pay on Separation......
Vacation Rights.................
Vacations Wage Schedules Wages
Weekly Pay Adjustment Weekly Rest Period
14.4	.........59
. 2.0..........2
11.4	.........46
11.3..........45
11.2..........43
11.5	.........46
11.1	.........42
11.0	.........42
12.2	.........48
12.0	.........47
12.5	.........50
10.3	.........39
COLLECTIVEAGREEMENT
BETWEEN
LANTIC SUGAR LIMITED AND
LOCAL NO. 443 OF THE BAKERY, CONFECTIONERY
AND TOBACCO WORKERS INTERNATIONALUNION
PREAMBLE
This Agreement is between the Lantic Sugar Limited, located at 333 Charlotte Street, Saint John, New Brunswick, E2L 4L4, (hereinafter calledthe Company) and Local No. 443 of the Bakery, Confectionery and Tobacco Workers International Union (hereinafter called the Union) as follows;
FORWARD
For the purpose of this Agreement, the masculine pronoun shall be deemed to include the feminine.
1
ARTICLE 1
DURATION OF THE AGREEMENT
This Agreement shall be effective for a period of three (3) years from May 1,1996 to August 31, 1998 and shall be automatically renewed from year to year unless notice is given by either party of their desire to terminate or amend this Agreement,provided that such notice is given duringthe period from 90 to 30 days prior to August 31, I998 or the annual renewal date thereafter.
ARTICLE 2
UNION RECOGNITION
(1)	The Company recognizes that the Union is the sole bargaining agent for the employees of the Company at its sugar refining operations at SaintJohn, New Brunswick, for the classifications listed in this Agreement under the "Scheduleof Wage Rates"attachedto and forming part of the Collective Labour Agreement. However, all Foremen, Supervisors and all other employees not especially and
2
specifically listed in the above mentioned Wage section shall be excluded from the bargaining unit.
(2)	The Company agrees to negotiate with the Union, rates of pay, hours of work, severance pay and other conditions of employment as set forth in this Agreement.
(3)	The Company agrees that the Union may post notices on bulletin boards supplied by the Company for this purpose, of which one will be for exclusive Union use, located in the canteen. All notices to be placed on the above mentioned boards must be specifically approved by the Human Resources Manager or his appointee.
ARTICLE 3
GUARANTEES BY THE COMPANY AND UNION
(1)	The Company and the Union agree that their authorized officials will meet within three (3) days or such longer time as may be mutually agreed upon, of a request by either party, to discuss problems which may arise from time
3
to time. The Union Committee shall consist of at leastthree (3) employees.
(2)	The members of the Union shall observe all Company rules and regulations presently in force or which may be issued from time to time and the Union agrees to support their observance provided that such regulations do not contravene the presentAgreement.
(3)	The Union agrees that neither it nor any of theemployees inthe bargaining unit covered by this Agreement, will collectively, concertedlyor individually engage in or participate, directly or indirectly in any strike, slow-down, stoppage or other interference of production or work during the term of this Agreement; and the Company agrees that during the term of this Agreement it will not lockout any of the employees covered by this Agreement, The Company retains the right to discipline or discharge any employee who violates this provision.
4
ARTICLE 4
MANAGEMENTRIGHTS
(1)	The Union agrees that it is the sole and exclusive right of the Company to manage the business and direct the working forces and that all functions which have not been specifically restricted by the clauses of this Agreement are the right of Management.
(2)	Management will not perform work which is performed by employees in the bargaining unit except:
a)	in case of emergency
Emergency is defined to be danger to employees, equipment, or loss of the melt rate.
b)	when performing experimental or developmental work
c)	training of bargaining unit employees
5
ARTICLE5
ADJUSTMENT
PROCEDURES
(1)	Definition of a Grievance
A grievance is defined as an alleged violation of a specific article or section of this agreement.
(2)	Nothing in this Article, nor in any other Article of this Agreement, shall prevent any employee or group of employees from dealing directly and informally with their immediate supervisor or supervisor involvedifthey wish to make a request, presenta complaintor make suggestions concerning conditions of employment.
(3)	Everyemployeeor groupof employees shall havethe right to seek adjustment of a complaint or grievance arising out of the interpretation of this Agreement; provided that the matter is brought to the attention of the Company through the following procedure.
(4)	Step 1
Inthe first instance the employee shall bring the matter to the attention of his
6
or her immediate supervisor or supervisor involved within six (6) working days of the occurrence of the action which has resulted in the complaint. Ifthe employeewishes, the Shop Steward shall be present when the matter is discussed with the immediate supervisor or supervisor involved. A decision shall be given by the immediatesupervisor or supervisor involvedwithin twenty-four (24) hours orsuch longertirneas maybe mutually agreed to.
Step 2
If satisfaction is not obtained, the shop steward or the employee shall complete a Notice of Grievance Form, stating what article of the collective agreement has been violated, the reasons giving rise to the grievance and the corrective action requested. The employee will then present it to his or her immediate supervisor or supervisor involved within seven (7) working days of the occurrence of the action which resulted in the complaint. The Shop Steward shall assist the employee in completing the form and shall be present when it is presented
7
to his or her immediate supervisor or supervisor involved. A decision shall be given in writing by the immediate supervisor or supervisor involved within two (2) working days from the date the notice is received or such longer time as may be mutually agreed to. Errors and omissions in the stated grievance will not be cause for it being defeated or denied.
Step 3
If satisfaction isnotobtained, the Shop Steward or the Shop Steward and the employee, shall present the grievance to the Headof the Departmentinwhich the employee works, together with the originalNotice of Grievance within two (2) working days from the date the notice was returned by the immediate supervisor or supervisor involved. A decision shall be given in writing by the Head of the Department concerned within three (3) working days or such longertimeas may bemutually agreed to.
Step 4
If satisfactionis notobtained, the Union Representatives (no less than 3) on
8
behalf of the employee, may present the grievance to the Management of the Company through the Human Resources Department together with the original Noticeof Grievance Form, within seven (7) working days from the date the notice was returned by the Head of the Department. A final decisionshallbe given within seven (7) working days or such longer time as may be mutually agreed to.
Step 5
If satisfaction is not obtained, the Union Representatives(no less than 3) may request a meeting with the Human Resources Manager and/or the Refinery Manager, within seven (7) working days from the date the notice was returned, by the Management of the Company.
(5)	Inall cases of discharge, the employee who feels that he or she has been unfairly treated, the Union Representatives (no less than 3) on behalf of the employee, if they decide to support the case, mustwithin seven (7) working days from the date of discharge complete a Notice of
9
Grievance Form and present it to the Head of the Department in which the employee was last employed. A decision shall be given inwriting by the Head of the Department within seven (7) working days and if satisfaction is not obtained, the employee, andlorthe Union Representatives (no less than 3) shall present it to the Management of the Company as in Step4 above.
Arbitration may apply to all such cases of discharge complained of. Should a Boardof Adjustment determinethat an employeewas unjustlydischarged, the employee shall, if the Board recommends, be reinstated to his/her former job with full seniority and compensation for time lost or by any other arrangement the Board of Adjustment recommends.
(6)	The Company and the Union shall at each stage of the above adjustment proceduremake every effort to reach a prompt and satisfactory solution.
10
ARTICLE6
ARBITRATION
(1)	Procedure
A Board of Adjustment shall be established, upon the written request of either party to this Agreement and provided that such request is made within fifteen (15) calendar days from the date of the Company's answer provided for in Step 4 of Article 5, or such longer time as may be mutually agreed to.
(a)	A policy grievance is defined as a difference between the Union and the Company concerning the interpretation, application, administration or alleged violation of this Collective Agreement.
(b)	Either party may request in writing that a Board of Adjustment be established to deal with a policy grievance as set out in the request whereupon the provisions of Clause 3 hereafter shall apply.
(2)	Power of the Board of Adjustment
It shall be the function of the Board of Adjustment to make a decision in
11
cases of allegedviolations of the specific articlesand sectionsof this Agreement. They shall have no power to add to, subtract from, disregard, alter, or modify any of the terms of this Agreement. It being understood that any matter not specifically set forth herein remains within the reserved rights of the Company.
Notwithstanding the above the Board will have the right to amend the wage rate of a classification which is the subject matter of a grievance brought before it under Article 12, 2,b; Article 16,c and Article 16,d. I nits decision, on grievances concerning a wage rate, the Board will establish a rate which is reasonably consistent with the Schedule of Wage Rates attached to andformingpart of the Collective Labour Agreement.
(a)	It shall be the function of the Board of Adjustment to make a decision on any policy grievance which will resolve the question in dispute.
(b)	Thequestionastowhetherornotthe
matter is arbitrable may also be a subject for arbitration. In the event
12
that the Board has no power to rule on a case, it shall be referred back to the parties without decision or recommendation on its merits.
(3)	Board of Adjustment
The Board of Adjustment shall consist of three (3) members and shall be selected in the following manner: The Company shall appoint one member and the Union shall appoint one member. These two members shall be appointed within eight (8) calendar days following the receiptof the written request for arbitration referred to in Clausel or Clause 1(b) of this Article. Within eight (8) calendar days after their appointment, these two members shall select a third member who shall be appointed Chairman. In the event thatthetwo members appointed by the Company and the Union fail to agree upon a Chairman within the time allowed, the Minister of Labour for the Province of New Brunswick shall be requested to appoint a Chairman.
(4)	Arbitration Procedure
Hearings shall commence promptly
13
after the appointment of the Chairman and upon hearing the arguments presented by both parties, the Board shall render a decision within twenty-one (21) calendar days after the completion of the hearings. The decision of a majority of the Board of Adjustment shall be final and binding on both parties.
(5)	Cost of Arbitration
The expenses and remuneration, if any, of the members of the Board named by the Company and the Union shall be borne by the Company and the Union respectively. The expenses and remuneration, if any, of the Chairman shall be borne in equal shares by the Company and the Union.
(6)
(a) Not withstanding the provisions of Article 6, of the presentagreement concerningarbitration,the matter at issue can be referred, by mutual agreement of the parties,to a single arbitrator rather than a Board of Adjustment.
14
(b)	The Company and the Union, within fifteen (15) calendar days from the date of the Company's answer providedforin Step4 of Article5 or such longer time as may be mutually agreed to, will select a single arbitrator. If agreement is not reached, the matter will be referred to a Board of Adjustment and the provisions of Article 6 concerning a Board of Adjustment will apply andthe delays providedin Article 6(1) will take effect as of a date mutually agreeable to both parties.
(c)	When a single arbitrator has been selected, he will have the power and obligations incumbent upon a Board of Adjustment as described inArticle6, Paragraph Two (2), Four (4) and Five (5).
ARTICLE7
LEAVE OF ABSENCE FOR UNION OFFICIALS
(1)	Always provided that production and work schedulesmust notbe interrupted nor slowed down, Union officials may
15
apply to their immediate supervisors for permission to leave their place of work without loss of pay, to handle complaints or to process grievances. Union officials may be granted a reasonable amount of time for these purposes but in no case shall a Union official leave his place of work without permission.
(2)	Always provided that production and workschedulesmustnotbe interrupted nor slowed down, Union officials may apply to their immediate supervisors for leaves of absences, without cost to the company, for the purpose of Union Business. Union officials may be granted a reasonable amount of time forthese purposes, butin nocaseshall a Union official leave his place of work without permission.
(3)	The Companywillpayemployeeswhen absentfor Unionbusiness.Thiswill not includereimbursementfornegotiations. The Unionwill reimbursethe Company for wages and other deductions paid on behalf of the employee.
16
ARTICLE 8
CHECK-OFF
(1)	The Company shall introduce new regular employees, during their first week of regular work, to an executive officer of the Union.
Each week the Company shall deduct from the pay of all employees who have completed their probationary period, an amount equal to the regular weekly union dues as determined by a resolution of the Union. A certified copy of such resolution shall be remittedto the Company.
The Company will deduct the amount specified each week. The total so collected shall be remitted to the Union by the 15th of each month following the end of the monthly accounting period.
The Company will deduct, upon receipt of a duly signed Union card, the specified initiation fee. The total so collected shall be remittedto the Union by the 15th of each month following the end of the monthly accounting period.
17
(2)	The Union to Indemnify the Company Against Claims
It is understood and agreed that the Union will indemnify the Company and save it harmless from any and all claims which may be made against the Company by an employee or employees for amounts deducted from wages as herein provided.
ARTICLE 9
SENIORITY
Definition:
Seniority shall mean the length of continuous employment in the Company and shall date from the day on which uninterrupted employment began.
Probationary Employees
(I) Employeeshiredby the Company shall serve a probationary period of sixty (60) continuous working days. During the probationary period such employees shall be subject to a termination without prior notice at the sole discretion of the Company and such action shall not be subject to the
18
Grievance and Arbitration Procedure inthe Contract. After an employee has continued in the employment of the Company for sixty (60) continuous working days, he/she shall cease to be a probationary employee and shall be entered on the Seniority List and shall rank for seniority from the date and time on which the employee began to work after hired.
(2)	Seniority Applied to Promotion
(a)	Seniority shall prevail in promoting andtransferring employees provided there be equality of skill, efficiency and general ability. (Refer to Appendix B)
(3)	Tradesmen
(a)	To be eligible for promotion to any Grade I Tradesman Classification shown in the attached Wage Schedules, an employee must have attained the level of journeyman under the Apprenticeship Program cf the New Brunswick Department of Labour or have qualifications at least equal to this standard.
(b)	Promotion to or within any Grade II
19
or Grade III Tradesman Classification shown in the attached Wage Schedules will be based solely upon the merit and experience of the individual tradesman as determined by the Company at a semi-annual review.
(4)	Apprentice Tradesman,Technical and Clerical Classifications
To be eligible for promotionto or within the respectiveApprenticeTradesman, Technical and Clerical Classifications, the necessary qualifications shall include skill, ability, technical training, education, experience levels and seniority.
(5)	Job Posting
(a)	When a vacancy occurs in a job (other than those designated as progressionjobs and marked in the attached Wage Schedules with a “P") or a new classification is created, the Company will post a notice stating the number of vacancies on the Bulletin Boards, in the following locations: Employees Main Entrance, Canteen, Boiler House,
20
Warehouse, and Machine Shop in order that men or women who consider themselves qualified may apply. Job notices will be dated and shall be posted before 12:00 noon on such date. Applications will be received until 12:00 noon of the fifth working day following the date of the notice.
(b)	Employees who are absent due to Worker's Compensation, lay-off, illness or vacation during the five working day job posting period will be considered along with the other applicants. If selected, he/she will be transferred to the newjob upon return to work provided he/she returns within sixty (60) days from the date of posting. During this time the job will be filled on a temporary basis.
(c)	The Company will review all applications on the basis of seniority, skill, efficiency, general ability and select a suitable candidate. The results of a job posting will be announced within twenty-one (21) days after the job posting has elapsed. In the event
21
that no suitable candidate applies for the job, the Company may select another employee or consider applications from outside the Company.
(d)	Nothing in this Clause shall prevent
the Company from assigning an employeeto ajob for short periods, hiring employeesfor casual work or from making a temporary appointment to a job which has been posted. However, no final appointment to a regularly scheduled job shall be made until the job posting period of five (5) working days has elapsed and all applications have been considered. The Company will inform the Union of the name of the successful applicant prior to making the appointment and will post the name of the successful applicant on the Bulletin Board in the following locations:	Employee Main
Entrance, Canteen, Boiler House, Warehouse, and Machine Shop.
(e)	It is fully understood that an application for transfer or promotion
22
as outlined above does not automatically give the applicant a right to the job nor obligate the Company in any way other than to give serious consideration to the applications received.
(f)	In cases where due to the training and experience required, it is foreseen that the filling of one vacancy will create vacancies in a succession of jobs, the Company reserves the right to post all anticipated vacancies at the same time so that successive promotions or transfers may be consideredand decided upon as quickly as possible. Should the anticipated vacancies not materialize, applications will be cancelled automatically. Temporary day work positions of more than 30 days duration will be posted.
(6)	Progression
(a)	It is understood that the Company must select for the bottom step in a line of progression, employees capable of advancing to the top
23
step in that line of progression. Effective September 1, I976, employees transferred to a classification within a line of progression will be required to advance to the top step, as a condition of continued employment within a progression system.
(b)	Promotion from one step to the next higher step within a line of progression will be on the basis of progression seniority. On failing to find a suitable employee in the step immediately below that step in which the vacancy occurred, the next lower steps will be searched to find an employee to fill the vacancy. These lower steps will be searched in the reverse order of the steps in normal promotion.
(c)	The senior employee in line for progression promotion will be provided, if required, with a training and/or trial period to demonstrate the skill and ability for promotion.
(d)	An employee's seniority in a line of progression is determined by the step in the line of progression he/
24
she occupies and not the total time an employee has been a member of the line of progression. Seniority of the employees occupying the same step in a line of progression is determined by the total amount of time each employee has on the particular step.
(e)	In case of reduction in the total number of steps or in the total number of employees within a step, in a line of progression, employees will be demoted step by step down the line of progression with employees being removed from the bottom step.
(f)	An employee within a line of progression who is unable or refuses to progress, shall meet with Management and Union Representatives. At this meeting, the employee will have explained to him/her the seniority rights within the progression system which he/ she is relinquishing.
(g)	Nothing in this Clause shall prevent the Company from making a temporary appointment to a job
25
within a Line of Progression. However, when a vacancy is confirmed to be for a period of four weeks or more, the Company will assign employees based on progression seniority within the line of progression. Vacancies that are unforseen or of a shorter duration will be assigned to employees based on progression seniority on the applicable shift.
(7)	Seniority Applied to Lay-off
Subject to the provision that there be equality of skill, efficiency and general ability, the last employee hired shall be the first to be laid off when staff is being reduced.
(8)	Restrictions on the Application of Seniority
Seniority shall not apply:
(a)	During the first sixty (60) working days of continuous employment by the Company.
(b)	In assigning of overtime work. However, the Company will endeavour to distribute overtime
26
equitably where possible and appropriate log books will be maintained.
(c)	In the assigning of casual labour to the Mechanical Department during shut-downs. A list of those assigned will be posted.
(d)	In the event of a reduction in the work week from forty (40) hours to thirty-two (32) hours any work beyondthirty-two (32) hours shall be assigned to the senior employee on the applicable shift provided the employee selected is capable of doing the required job.
(9)	Termination of Seniority
Seniority shall cease and be cancelled for any of the following reasons:
(a)	If an employee quits the service of the Company.
(b)	After an employee has been laid off for more than twelve (12) consecutive months.
(c)	If an employee is discharged for just cause.
27
(d)	If an employee has been considered to have quit due to the fact that he/ she has not returned to work within two (2) days after the termination of a leave of absence, being recalled following a l ay-off or has been absent withoutleavefortwo (2) dayswithout notifying his/her supervisor of the cause and receiving permission to be absent.
(1O)	Severance Pay
(a) An employee, who has completed five years of service, whose employment is terminated due to technological changes introduced by the Company at Saint John and to whom the Company is unable to offer employment at the Refinery or at other Lantic locations within the City of Saint John shall receive 3% of their base rate on the last day of employment multiplied by 2080 hours multiplied by their number of years of service throughout their periodof employment or throughout their last period of employment if they were formerly employed and rehired.
28
(b)	In the event the Company permanently ceases operation of the Refinery or if regular members of the unionized workforce are permanently laid-off and forfeit all recall rights, during the life of this agreement, employees who are permanently laid off shall receive 3% oftheirbaserateonthelastday of employment multiplied by 2080 hours multiplied by their number of years of service throughout their periodof employment or throughout their last period of employment if they were formerly employed and rehired. Employees will be given the option of receiving such severance pay immediately upon termination and thereby forfeiting recall rights or maintain their recall rights to a maximum of oneyearand there upon receivetheir severance pay.
If future government legislation provides for severance pay or pay in lieu of notice, then the employee will be entitled to the greater of the two. but not both.
29
(11)	Lay-offs
(a)	When lay-offs can be foreseen by the Company, based on the forecasted packaging schedule, regular employees will be given a minimumof four (4) days notification of such lay-off, unless circumstances beyond Company control (such as late arrival of raw materials, late cancellation of customer order, equipment or power failure, act of God, unforseen return to work by an employee from sick leave or compensation) prevent it from doing so.
(b)	Contracting Out:
Regular employees qualified to perform the contracted work will not be laid-off, terminated or reduced to a lower classification i f they once held the qualified position, during the time a contractor is performing work at the Refinery. The foregoing shall not apply:
i) To the use of specialized equipment to do work that
30
employees of the Refinery are not capable of performing efficiently.
ii) To the fulfilment of normal warranty obligations by vendors orworkwhicha vendor is required to performto proveout equipment.
(12)
(a)	When it is necessaryto increase the work force the Company shall not hirea personnotformerly employed if there is available a former employee who was laid off within the previous twelve months, who had acquired seniority status prior tosuchlayoff, and who hastheskill, efficiency and general ability to perform the available work.
(b)	No new employeeswill be hired until all former employees who were subject to recall as of the date of ratification, and have all of the necessary qualifications for such vacancy, have been offered reemployment. Those employees who have lost their recall rights will be treated as new employees when rehired.
31
(c)	A former employee who has not filed his current address and telephone number with the Company shall be ineligible for reemployment under the provisions of clause (a).
(d)	The Company will advise the qualified eligible former employee by telephone or failing this by registered letter of the availability of a job opening. Should the former employee fail to reply within ten (1O) days (excluding Saturday, Sunday and -those holidays described in clause 10.4 (A) of this agreement) from the date of mailing f such registered letter to the last forwarding address filed with the Company, he shall be deemed ineligible for re-employmentunder the provision of clause (a).
(e)	Aformeremployeewhoisunableor unwilling to accept re-employment when required by the Companywill forfeit all recall rights. This will not apply if the employee is under doctor’s care, providethe Company with a medical certificate and is
32
available for regular work within six (6) months of recall. Company reserves the right to have such employees examined by the Company Doctor. In the event of a dispute the two Doctorswill choose a third Doctor to settle the dispute.
(f)	Former employees who have been laid off for more than twelve (12) consecutive months or less are entitled to Medical, Dental and Group Life Insurance. The former employeemustmakethe necessary payments for these benefits as provided by the Collective Agreement.
(13)	Employees occupying tradesmen, technical or clerical classifications described in Section II and XIV of the Schedule of Wages contained in the present agreement, may if displaced from such classification elect layoff insteadof exercisingtheir plant seniority rights. Such employees will thereby forfeit their recall rights except to the classificationfrom which they were laid-Off.
(14)	All employees hired as students on and after May 1, will not acquire
33
seniority. Should any of these students remain after September 1, they will be considered as probationary employees and acquire seniority rights thirty (30) working days after September 1.
These students will be paidthe student classification rate for all work performed, except in classifications with a rate of pay higher than the labour rate.
ARTICLE 10
(1)	Regular Hours per Day and per Week
(a)	The regular work week for Clerical and Technical Classificationsshall be thirty-five (35) hours divided into five (5) working days of seven (7) hours.
The regular work week for all other classifications shall be forty (40) hours divided into five (5) working days of eight (8) consecutivehours.
Shift schedules for the coming week for all employees in the Mechanical,	Production
Departments, Lab Testers,
34
Packaging, Warehousing and Shipping Departments shall be posted by 3:30 p.m. on Thursday of the currentweek.
Employeesleftoff the shift schedule will be paid time and one half only whenthis resultsinachange intheir normal shift rotation.
These shifts shall be the shifts currently in use but it does not precludethe addition of other shifts necessitated by conditions beyond the Company's control. By mutual agreementother shift arrangements may be established.
(b)	The Company shall not reduce the regular hours of work of any employee in an area having a fixed lunch period not paid for by the Company who shall be called upon to work during his lunch period.
(c)	When five (5) days production are scheduled, the Company will endeavour to have this carried out between midnight Sunday and 11:30 p.m. Friday and will make every effort to release junior employees, thereby preventing as
35
I much as possible a reduction in the working hours of senior employees.
(d)	Thetwelve( 12) hour Shift Schedule applying to the Stationary Engineerswill remainineffect during the term of this agreement subject to the Lantic Sugar Limited Guidelines dated October 5,1990. (referto Appendix C)
(e)	Notwithstanding the above, the Union agrees that the Company can establish shift schedules and hours of work as needed to maximize production output and efficiency,as stated in the ten-four and continuousschedules that are contained in Appendix E.
(f)	The Company, at the request of the Union, agrees to reverse the shift rotation on a three month trial.
(g)	Shift definitions:
Day shift: Any shift which starts between 6:00 A.M. and 9:00 A.M.
Middle or evening shift: Any shift which starts between 2:00 P.M. and4:00 P.M.
36
Night shift: Any shift which starts between 10:00 P.M. and 12:00 midnight.
(2)	Rest Periods and Lunch Periods
(a)	Eachemployeewill be allowed a ten (10) minute rest period each half-shittto betaken at atime designated by his/her immediate supervisor.
(b)	All employees working on continuousoperationsshall be given twenty (20) minutesoff for ameal on the job or off the job where relief workers are available without loss of pay.
(c)	Each employee engaged in shift operations in Packaging and Warehousing will be allowed a twenty (20) minute lunch period at a time designated by his/her immediate supervisor and shall go to the lunch room for his/her meal during this period. The designated lunch period will fall between the hours of 11:00 a.m. and 1:00 p.m. onthe Day Shift; betweenthe hours of 6:00 p.m. and 8:00 p.m. on the MiddleShift; and betweenthe hours
37
of 2:00 a.m. and 4:00 a.m. on the Night Shift.
(d)	No employee may demand to be absent at any particulartime, leave workwithout permission,stay longer than the prescribed time, nor smoke in unauthorizedplaces.
(e)	Employees who are required to interrupt their rest or lunch period, will be given a continuous rest or lunch period at another reasonable time during the shift.
Employees whose lunch periods are not paid and have this period interrupted will receive time and one half for the half hour lunch period. They will also be given a continuous half hour paid lunch period after the work is completed or at a reasonable time during the shift.
A rescheduled lunch period, for which the employee is given notice two hoursor more in advance, does not constitute an interruption and therefore will not require payment at time and one half.
38
(3)	Weekly Rest Period and Restrictionson
Hours of Work
(a)	Each employee shall have twenty-four (24) continuous hours off each week.
(b)	No female employee hired prior to Septemberl, 1976 shall berequired to worklongerthan nine (9) hours in any 24-hour period.
(c)	No hourly paid employee shall work longer than sixteen (16) hours in any 24-hour period.
(4)	Statutory & Negotiated Holidays
(a) HOLIDAYS RECOGNIZED
The Company shall observe the following holidays during the year:
New Year's Day Good Friday Easter Monday Queen's Birthday Dominion Day New Brunswick Day Christmas Period Holiday
Labour Day Thanksgiving Day RemembranceDay December24th Christmas Day December26th
39
By mutual agreement, Dominion Day and Remembrance Day shall always be observed on a Monday or Friday. In the event that the actual day is not proclaimed by the government authority, the holiday shall be observed on the Monday or Friday nearest to the calendar date of those days.
In the event that Christmas Day, December 26th, or New Year's Day falls on a Sunday, it shall be observed on the following Monday.
Christmas period holiday will be set by mutual agreement.
(b)	PAYMENTFOR HOLIDAYS
The purpose of recognizing Statutory Holidays is to allow employees time off to observe the Holidaywithoutloss of pay, provided this can be done without seriously affecting production schedules. Therefore, employees with one month or more continuous service, whom the Company allows to be absenton those days, shall receive one day's pay attheir baserate or at the base rate of thejob for which they were relieving that week.
40
Notwithstanding the above provisions, if an employee other than one on vacation, bereavement leave, leave of absence, or on layoff of less than six (6) months, due to lack of work, is absent on either the day before or on the day after the holiday for any reason, he shall not receive pay for the holiday. Employees that qualify for Sick Leave Pay will be paid holiday pay at their base rate when such holiday is observed in the three (3) working day waiting period or the day immediately preceding the three
(3)	working day waiting period. Payment of holiday pay to employees on lay-off of less than six (6)months, shall be determined by their presence or absence on the last day before the holiday and the next day after the holiday when work was available. Persons on lay-off for more than six (6) months will not be eligible for Statutory Holiday pay for those Statutory Holidays observed during their lay-off.
41
(c)	DURATIONOFTHE HOLIDAY
The holidayshallextendfrom 11:30 p.m. or 12:00 midnight on the day precedingthe holiday, to 11:30 p.m. or 12:00 midnight on the holiday, according to the established arrangement of the shifts.
(5)	Continuous Operations
Appendix “C" of the presentCollective Agreement, contains the terms that will apply when continuous operations are in effect in the Power House.
ARTICLE 11
PAID VACATIONS
(1)	Right to a vacation
(a)	Thevacationyearshall be the twelve (12) month periodffom June 1 st of one calendar year to May 31st inclusive of the following calendar year.
(b)	Vacations in respect of service rendered during the preceding vacation year shall be granted to employees regularly employed by
42
the Company and who have completed periods cf service as follows:
SERVICE
Less than one (1) year before May I of current year
SERVICE COMPLETED ON JUNE 30th
(2)	Vacation Pay
(a)	Rate of Pay:
LENGTHOF VACATION one(1) day perfull month of service priorto May 1st of current year
LENGTHOF VACATION OFCURRENTYEAR
2	Weeks
3	Weeks
4	Weeks
5	Weeks
One year but lessthan 5 years 5 years but lessthan 10 years 10 years but less than 20 years 20 years but lessthan 30 years 30 years or more 6 Weeks
The vacation pay for an employee who is eligiblefor a paid vacation of two weeks or less shall be 4% of gross earningsforthevacationyear. BenefitspaidunderArticlel4, Clause 6, Lantlc Sugar's Sick Leave Program, shall not be included as part of gross earnings.
(b)	The vacation pay for an employee who is eligiblefor a paid vacation of three (3), four (4), five (5) or six (6) weeks shall consist of forty (40)
43
hours payfor each week of vacation for which the employee is eligible.
The vacation pay for all employees in the Technical and Clerical Classifications who are eligible for a paid vacation of three (3), four
(4), five (5) or six (6) weeks shall consist of one (1) week’s pay for each week of vacation for which the employee is eligible.
The vacation pay shall be calculated at the base rate applicable to the particular employee at the time the vacation is taken. Temporary employment involving a higher rate of pay shall not be considered when calculating vacation pay.
(c)	Vacation Bonus
Effective June 30th, 1996 every employee covered by this Agreement who, onJune30th, has been regularly employed by the Company shall receive a Vacation Bonus. The amount payable to any employeeineach vacation year shall be $225.
44
Effective June 30th, 1997 every employee covered by this Agreement who, on June 30th, has been regularly employed by the Company shall receive a Vacation Bonus. The amount payable to any employee in the vacation year shall be $225.
Effective June 30th, 1998 every employee covered by this Agreement who, on June 30th, has been regularly employed by the Company shall receive a Vacation Bonus. The amount payable to any employee in each vacation year shall be $225.
(d)	Vacation pay shall be paid to employees before they leave for vacation in accordance with the New Brunswick EmploymentStandards Act.
(e)	Subject to mutual agreement, vacation privileges may be accumulated untilconditionspermit them to be used.
(3)	Vacation Dates
(a)	While the Company will endeavour
45
to arrange dates on which vacations shall commence in a manner satisfactory to the employees concerned, final decision as to the date on which the employee’s vacation shall commence shall rest with the Company.
(b)	When plant shutdowns are scheduled the employees will be given the option to usetheir vacation privileges or to be placed on temporary lay-off. This provision does not apply when a plant shutdown or planned vacation period is scheduled during the months of July and August.
(4)	Holiday During Vacation
(a)	If one cf the holidays listedin Article 10, Clause4 (a) is observed by the Company during an employee’s vacation, the employee shall be entitled to an extra day of vacation with pay or an extra day’s pay.
(5)	Vacation Pay on Separation
If an employee leaves the service of the Company atatime when an unused
46
period of vacation with pay stands to his credit, he shall be paid the amount due him in lieu of vacation, provided one week's notice has been given.
ARTICLE 12
WAGES
(1)(a) Effective April 16, 1996, all wage rates shall be increased and adjustedto the base rates shown in the attached Wage Schedules.
(b)	Effective September 1, I996, all hourlyand weekly wage rates shall be increasedand adjusted to provide the rates shown in the attached Wage Schedules.
(c)	Effective September 1, 1997, all hourlyand weekly wage ratesshall be increasedand adjustedto provide the rates shown in the attached Wage Schedules.
(d)	Retroactive pay for all hours worked,sick leave and shift differentialsfrom Septemberl ,1995 to the date of ratificationwill be paid to all employees presently employed.
47
(2)	Wage Schedules
(a)	The base rates for the job classifications covered in this Agreement and for the periods referred to in Paragraph (1) above are shown on the Wage Schedules attached to and forming pari of this Agreement. These Schedules will not be reduced during the life of this Agreement.
(b)	The Company will notify the Union two weeks in advance when a new job classifications created; or, the duties of a classification arechanged for a significant degree; or the skill levels of a classification are increased. The Companywill at the same time inform the Union of the temporary rate they have set for it.
Following a trial period of one(1) month, the Company will negotiate with the Union to establish a base rate of pay for the new or modified classification which will be effective on the date the trial period began. If agreement is not reached, the matter will be referred to arbitration (Article 6).
48
(c)	Apprentice Tradesmen will be paid the baserateshownonthe Schedule when starting their apprenticeship and their performance and rate of pay will be reviewed every six (6) months.
(d)	Apprentices, who are required to attend “Block Release”training, as provided by the New Brunswick Departmentof Labour shall be paid each week the difference between their base ratetimes forty (40) hours and the total of all training allowances received each week from government agencies.
(e)	Industrial Mechanics Grade III and Grade II, will be paid the minimum rate for the classification when appointed or promoted to these classifications. Their performance and rate of pay will be reviewed every six (6) months.
(3)	Rate of Pay on Transfer
When an employee is promoted or transferred on a regular basis to a job carrying a higher base rate, he shall be paid his former base rate of pay during the training period which shall
49
not exceed one (1) month. In the case of an employee in a progressionjob who has already been trained in the job, he shall be paid the base rate for the higher paid job immediately on transfer.
When an employee is temporarily transferred to a higher paid job, he shall be paid the base rate for the higher paidjob.
(4)	Call-Out Pay
When an employee, after leaving the Company’s premises, is called by the Company and requested to return to work, outside his scheduled shift, he will be paid the greater of, the applicable rate of pay for all hours worked outside his scheduled shift or four (4) hours at his base rate.
(5)	Weekly Pay Adjustment
Regular employees in the Technical and Clerical Classifications who are absent for less than a week due to illness or justifiable absence shall not have their pay reduced pro rata. Employees who qualify for Worker’s Compensation or Lantic Sick Leave
50
Program will not qualify for the above benefit.
ARTICLE 13
OVERTIME AND PREMIUM PAY
The provisions of this article shall not apply
to Technical and Clerical Classifications.
(1)	Computation
In computing overtime and premium pay the following definitions shall apply:
(a)	The base rates are defined as those rates which appear in the attached Wage Schedule.
(b)	The regular rate is defined as the base rate of the classification plus any shift differential applicable to the shift worked as specified in Article 13, Clause4.
(c)	Premiumpay is defined as the premium paidfor all hoursworked on Sunday as specified in Article 13, Clause3(a), the premium paidfor all hoursworked on holidays as specified in Article 13,
51
Clause 3(b) and the premium paid for all hours worked on Saturday as specified in Article 13, Clause 3(c),
(2)	Overtime
Overtimeat one and one-half times the regular rate shall be paid:
(a)	After eight (8) hoursat regularrates of pay on any shift.
(b)	After eight (8) hours have been worked at regular rates in any 24-hour period from midnight to midnight.
(c)	After forty (40) hours have been worked at regular rates in a weekly payroll period. When one or more holidays referred to in Article 10, Clause 4(a) occursduringthe weekly payrollperiod, overtime atthe above rateshall be paidafterthe remaining hours at regular pay have been worked.
(d)	For all time worked outside the posted hours. This shall not apply to relief workers whose relief job requires them to move from one shift to another during the week, nor shall it apply in a reductionof the
52
work week to not less than 32 hours.
(e)	Any shiftemployee who is required to work on his/her scheduled day oft shall be paid at least one and one-half times his regular rate of pay for all hours worked on that day. This provision shall not apply to an employee who is transferred on a regular basis to another job or another shift which automatically changes his/her schedule.
(f)	Employees wishing tochangeshifts may do so provided they obtain permission from their respective supervisors and there is no cost or penalty to the Company.
(g)	Banking of overtime
Upon the request of an employee, the Company will accumulate overtime hours to be taken in time off to a maximumoften (10) working days in any vacation year. Time off can only be taken during the period of November 15 to May 1. Employeeswill berequiredtotake5 days accumulated time in a single calendarweek. While the Company
53
will endeavour to arrange mutually acceptable dates, final decision will rest with the Company. Any employeewho has any outstanding accumulated time as of May 1 will receive pay in settlement of this accumulatedtime. Employeesmay request pay in lieu of accumulated time off, at any time.
(3)	Premium Pay for Sunday, Statutory Holidays and Saturdays
The Company when and where possible shall avoid Sunday work but when deemed necessary by the Companythe employeesshallworkon Sunday, Statutory Holidays and Saturday.
(a) PREMIUM PAY FOR SUNDAYWORK
Hourly-paid employees required to work on Sunday shall be paid at twice the regular rate of pay for all time worked between 11:30 p.m. or midnight on Saturdayto 11:30 p.m. or midnight on Sunday according to the established arrangement of the shifts provided that Stationary Engineers scheduled for shift work shall be paid
54
regular rates on Sunday for all posted hours.
(b)	PREMIUM PAY FOR WORK ON HOLIDAYS
When an employee is requiredto work on one of the holidays listed in Article 10, Clause4(a), he/she shall be paid at two and one-half times the regular rate of pay for all time worked. However, when an employee is required to work on Good Friday, Labour Day or Christmas Day, he shall be paid at three times the regular rate for all time worked.
(c)	PREMIUM PAY FOR SATURDAY WORK
Hourly-paid employees required to work on Saturday shall be paid at one and one-half times the regular rate of pay for the first eight (8) hours worked and double time for hours worked in excess of eight hours between 11:30 p.m. or midnight on Friday to 11:30 p.m. or midnight on Saturday according to the established arrangementof the shifts providedthat Stationary Engineers scheduled
55
for Shift Work shall be paid at regular rates on Saturday for all posted hours.
(4)	Shift Differentials
All employeesworking on evening and night shifts shall be paid a shift differential of fifty (50) cents per hour for all work on shifts starting between 2:00 p.m. and 4:00 p.m. and a shift differential of seventy-five (75) cents per hour for all work on shifts starting between 10:00 p.m. and midnight.
(5)	No Pyramiding
Notwithstanding the above provisions regarding payment of overtime and premium pay, it is agreed that under any circumstances where overtime or premium pay exists, only the highest of the two shall apply and there shall be no pyramidingof these rates.
(6)	When the Company requires an employee to work overtime, he shall not be required to lay off during his scheduled working hours on account of so doing.
56
ARTICLE 14
General
(1)	Transportation
Employees called out to work or sent home between the hours of 12:00 midnightand 6:00 a.m. shall be paid a transportation fee of $7.00 applicable each way.
(2)	BereavementLeave
Bereavement Leave of three (3) full days with pay shall be granted to employees, upon their request, due to the death of their mother, father, brother, sister, mother-in-law or father-in-law, grandchild, step-mother or step-father. The three days shall be the consecutive working days. BereavementLeave of five (5) full days with pay shall be granted to employees, upon their request, due to the death of their spouse, son, daughter, step-child, or common-law-spouse. The five(5) days shall be consecutive working days.
Employees laid off or on sick leave with pay etc., will not partake in the
57
above benefit. Employees on vacation will partake in the above benefit.
Bereavement Leave of one (1) day with pay shall be granted to employees upon their request due to the death of a grandfather; grandmother; brother-in-law; or sister-in-law. This provision shall apply to a scheduled working day only.
Pay for the time off shall be at the employee’s base rate.
(3)	MealAllowance
Each employee when required to work an overtime period of two (2) hours or more immediately before or following an eight (8) hour shift will receive a meal allowance of $8,00. The Company will provide a 20 minute lunch break within the first two hours ofthe overtime period. A second meal allowance of $8,00 will be given to an employee after (5) hours of overtime work. This provision shall not apply to scheduled overtime on Saturdays and Sundays.
58
(4)	Employee Uniforms
Employees covered by this Agreement shall wear uniforms as provided by the Company. The total cost of this service to each employee shall not exceed $.75 perweek.
(5)	Jury Duty
An employee who is absent from work because of jury duty or jury duty roll call or court witness shall be paid by the Company the difference between his base rate and the amount he received for jury duty, etc.
Payment by the Company is contingent upon:
1.	The employee shall give prior notice to the Company that he has been summoned for jury duty.
2.	The employee will present proof of jury service and the amount of pay received therefore.
(6)	Lantic Sugar Sick Leave Program
The Company will provide Sick Leave Benefits in accordance with the terms and conditions as set forth in
59
Appendix “ A of this Agreement. The full cost of this Plan will be paid by the Company.
(7)	Safety Footwear
Regular employees will be given $135.00 for the purchase of safety footwear. This provision will apply only once from the date of signing this Agreement to August 31, 1996 and once between September 1,1996 and August31,1997.
Regular employees will be given $135.00 for the purchase of safety footwear. This provision will apply only once between September 1,1997 and August 31,1998.
(8)	Tool Allowance
Regular employees employed in tradesmen classifications will receive a Tool Allowance cf $110,00. This amount will be paid once from the date of signing this Agreement to August 31, 1996 and once between September 1, 1996 and August 31, 1997.
Regular employees employed in
60
tradesmen classifications will receive a Tool Allowance cf $110.00. This amount will be paid once between September 1, 1997 and August 31, 1998.
(9)	Group Life Insurance
(a)	All employees who are actively at work with one year of service are insured for $50,000.
Conditions cf coverage providedwill be those as set out by the Insurer.
The Company will pay 50% of the premiums.
(b)	The Company will make available optional life insurance to a maximum of $50,000. Rates;(subject
to changes as determined by the insurer.)
less than 40 years of age-,09 per1,000
40 years to 44-. 18
45 yearsto 49-.30
50 yearsto 54-.53
55 years to 59-.90
60 years to 64-1.44
(subjectto medicalevidence)
61
The employee will pay the full cost of this
insurance.
(1O)	Long Term Disability.
The Company will provide, at no expense to the employees, a LongTerm Disability Plan administered by an insurance company, that will provide subject to the rules of the plan 66 2/3% of an employee's wages to a maximum of $602.60 per week,effective immediately, $612.72 per week effective September 1 st, 1996, $623.11 per week effective September 1, 1997, less offsets, beginning on the 27th week of disability. Regular employees only with one year of service shall be eligible for participation in the plan.
Employees in receipt of Workers' Compensation benefits will be covered by long term disability but will not receive benefits until the Workers Compensation sets a definitive settlement through the deeming process. At such time the employee will receive long term disability benefits, described in the following paragraph, less offsets which may
62
include the Workers' Compensation benefit defined by the settlement.
Employees after having been accepted for long term disability benefits for two years will no longer qualify for this benefit if their health condition permits them to accept a vacant positionat the refinery. (Such vacant positions will not be posted.) Assignment to this position will be based on the employee's seniority and qualifications. The salary must be equal to or greater than 75% of the rate of the position they held immediately prior to starting sick leave. Whereby a position is not available, the employee will continue to receive equivalent benefits including but not limited to pension credited service to which he/she received while on long term disability. The person on long term disability will be given first opportunity regardless of seniority for the vacant job providing no senior person is on layoff. Vacant position is understood to mean one which is normally posted. The combining of two or more jobs does not create a vacancy or a new
63
position. Vacancies in the progression system are in the bottom step.
(11)	Medical Insurance
The Company will provide to eligible employees Medical Insurance coverage. The plan will be administered by London Life or with another carrier, providing similar benefits. The Company will pay 50% of the premiums. The Plan will provide for:
a)	A co-payment of $5.00 for each prescription, cost of which will be shared 50/50 by the Company and the employees. Reimbursementof the Company share to the employees will be made in their pay cheque on a quarterly basis.
b)	Generic drugs to be used whenever available unless Doctor states no substitute.
c)	Exclude over the counter drugs.
d)	Positiveenrolmentfor all members andtheir dependants.
Cost of prescription glasses to be
64
covered to a maximum of 80% of $220.00.
Conditions of coverage provided will be those as set out by the insurer.
(12)	Dental Plan
The Company will provide, at no expense to the employee a Dental Plan administered by an insurance company. Regular employees only with sixty (60) working days of service shall be eligible for this plan.Each member of a family will be eligible to a maximum coverage of $2000.00 per year. Cost of orthodontic services at 80% to a lifetime maximum of $4000.00 for each member of the family. Conditions of coverage will be those as set out by the Insurer.
Update dental fee guide each year of the Collective Agreement. The 1995 fee guide to apply in 1996, 1996 in 1997 and 1997 in 1998.
(13)	Benefits
The Company undertakes, for employees covered by this agreement, during the term of this
65
agreement, not to reduce, without mutual agreement, the benefits provided under the terms of the pension plan or the life, health, dental, short term and long term disability plans. Agreement will not be unreasonably withheld by the Union.
(14)	Legal Licensing
Fees for legally required licenses for Welders and Stationary Engineerswill be paid by the Company.
(15)	Safety
The Company will provide all personal protective clothing and equipment as required by the Occupational Health and Safety Act.
ARTICLE 15
1. PROVISIONS FOR UNION BUSINESS
a)	The representatives of the Union and/or any Union Officer of Local 443, for the purpose of Union Business, without further disclosure, may upon application to and with the consent of the Refinery Human Resources Manager, or in his absence, the
66
Refinery Manager, or in the absence of both, the person in charge cf the Refinery at that time, have any Shop Steward made reasonably availableto him/her.
b)	When a grievance has been processed in accordance with Article 5 to the point where the employee feels that action is required by the Union Executive, the representatives of the Union shall be permitted to enter the Company premises under escort of the Refinery Human Resources Manager or his delegate to view the work situation. After reviewing the work situation, the Union Representative may have made available to him for private discussions off Company premises any of the employees involved with the grievance, always provided that the absence of such employees will not hinder production.
c)	An employee has a right to union representation when requesting a meeting with a management member, at grievance investigation
67
meetings with a management member and when being advised of a formal verbal warning, written warning, suspension or termination.
2. PAYMENT OF NEGOTIATING COMMITTEE
The Company agrees to pay up to 8 hours per day at the applicable base rate for each member of the Union's negotiatingcommitteeforj oint contract negotiating meetings with the Company's representatives.
This provisionwill not apply during the mediation process.
ARTICLE 16
TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE
a)	Definition:
Technological Change means the introduction of equipment different in nature, type or quantity from that previously utilized or the introduction of new materials or processes which will cause the reductionof one or more positions. (Process means the
68
modification to systems such as the affining, clarifying, decolorizing, crystallizingand drying processes.)
b)	Notification:
In the event technological change is planned, the Company will meet with the Union Executive as soon as possiblebut no less than two (2) months before implementation, to inform them of the technological change and the positions affected.
c)	Wage Rates:
When functions of a position eliminated due to technological change are reassigned to another classification, the wage rates of such classification will be subject to negotiations between the Company and the Union.
d)	When functionsof apositioneliminated due to technological change are reassigned within the same classification (except labourers, packers, a tradesmen classification and general maintenance section classifications, for example labourer to labourer, packer to packer,
69
electricianto electrician, riggerto rigger) then the wage rates of such classification will be subject to negotiationsbetweenthe Companyand the Union.
e)	If agreement is not reached the matter will be referred to arbitration (Article f).
ARTICLE 17
Personnel Files:
a)	An employee, upon request, shall be entitled to review his or her complete personnelfile. The file will be reviewed in the office of the Human Resources Officer. Disciplinary records dating over thirty-six (36) months will be cleared from the personnelfiles.
Discipline
b)	No employee shall be disciplined or discharged without just cause.
ARTICLE 18
EDUCATIONAL LEAVE (See Appendix D)
70
ARTICLE 19
TRADESMEN (SEE APPENDIX F)
ARTICLE20
PROVISIONSOF
AGREEMENTSUBJECTTO
GOVERNMENTAUTHORITY
Should any of the provisions of this Agreement or any amendment thereto be rendered or declared invalid by reason of any existing or subsequently enacted legislation or by any decree of a court of competentjurisdiction, such invalidation of such part or portion of this agreement shall not invalidate the remaining portions hereof, and they shall remain in full force and effect.
This Agreement signed at Saint John, N. B. this 1 st day of May, 1996,
Forthe Company:
D.	Bishop J. Lemon
E.	Mathurin
For the Union: M. Trecartin M.B. Heighten T. Marshall P. Kingston B. Hughes
71
SCHEDULE OF WAGE RATES ATTACHED TO AND FORMING PARTOF
THE COLLECTIVE LABOUR AGREEMENT BETWEEN
LANTIC SUGAR LIMITED AND
LOCAL 443 OF THE
BAKERY, CONFECTIONERYAND TOBACCO WORKERS INTERNATIONALUNION
JOB CLASSIFICATIONS	Wage Rates Per Hour
And Effective Dates	Apr 16/96 Sept 1/96 Sept 1/97
I-	BOILER HOUSE & ENGINE ROOM
Stationary Engineer 2nd Class Certificate	22.62
Stationary Engineer 3rd Class Certificate	19.64
II-	TRADESMEN
Electrician-Instrumentation 21.94 Pipeliner-Welder	21.94
Mechanic-Pipeliner	21.94
Machinist- Grade 1	21.51
MachinistGradeil	20.72
InstrumentMechanic- Grade 1	21.51
Instrument Mechanic- Grade11 20.72 Welder-Grade 1	21.51
Welder-Grade11	20.72
Tinsmith - Grade 1	21.51
23.00	23.39
20.02	20.41
22.32	22.71
22.32	22.71
22.32	22.71
21.89	22.28
21.10	21.49
21.89	22.28
21.10	21.49
21.89	22.28
21.10	21.49
21.89	22.28
72
And Effective Dales	Apr16/96 Septl/96 Sept1/97
Tinsmith-Grade! 1	20.72
Pipefitter- Gradel	21.51
Pipetiner-Grade11	20,72
IndustrialElectrician-Gradei	21.51
IndustrialElectrician-Gradel 1	20.72
Carpenter-Gradel	21.51
Carpenter-Gradel 1	20.72
Industrial Mechanic-Gradel	21.51
Industrial Mechanic-Grade 11	20,72
IndustrialMechanicGradeHl	19.46
Apprentice Tradesman	17.23
III -GENERAL MAINTENANCE Painter	17,75
TradesmanHelper	17.13
General Helper	17.05
Labourer	17.01
21.10
21.69
21,10
21.89
21.10
21.89
21.10
21.89 21,10 19.84 17.61
18.13
17.51
17.43
17.39
21.49
22.29
21.49
22,28
21.49 22,28
21.49 22,28
21.49 20.23 18,00
18.52
17.90
17.82
17.78
Painter-insulator
17.75	18.13	18,52
IV* MISCELLANEOUSSECONDARYCLASSIFICATIONS (Paid only for hour6 worked)
Mason
Front End Loader Operator Knapp Packer Thayer Packer Insulator
20.26	20.67	21.06
17.23	17.61	18.00
18.02	18.40	18,79
18.02	18.40	18,79
17.75	18.13	18.52
V* MELTHOUSEANDRAWSUGAR MeltHouseOperator	18.59
R. S. DragOperator	17,23
Weigh HouseOperator	18.14
Weigh House Utility Men	17.06
18,97	19,36
17.61	18.00
18,52	18.91
17.44	17,83
VI* FILTER HOUSE (P) Assistant FilterHouse Operator
(P) FilterHouse Operator (P)Liquld/Sugar Attendant (P)Clarifier Operator (P)Enzlnger Operator (P)Uquid GalleryAttendant (P)Production Utility
19.33	19.71	20.10
19.73	20.11	20.50
19.12	19.50	19.89
18.41	18.79	19,18
18,09	18,47	18,86
17,98	18,36	18.75
17.60	17.98	18.37
73
And Effective Dates
VII-	CHAR KILNS (P)Multi-Hearth Kiln Operator Kiln Helper
VIII-	PAN ROOM (P) SugarBoiler
(P) Pan RoomAttendant
IX-	CENTRIFUGALS P.H. Extensio nCentrifugal
Operator
P,H. Centrifugal Operator
X	-FINISHING Powder Mill Operator GranulatorOperator
XI	-PACKAGING PackageMachine
Operator. Grade 1 H. S, Weigher Bundler Operator TranswrapMachine Operator S.I.G. Operator PackageMachine Operator-GradeII Cube Machine Operator Granulated20/1 's Delta Seal 5/4's Rotary Triangle
Eagle Scale Operator IndividualServices PackageUtility Man Labourer Packers
Apr 16/96 Sept 1/96 Sept 1/97
18.05	18.43	18.82
17,47	17.85	18.24
19,46	1 9,84	20,23
17,85	18,23	18.62
18.13	18,51	18,90
18,28	18,66	19,05
18.78	19,16	19,55
18.13	18.51	18,90
18.61	18,99	19,38
18.61	18,99	19,38
18.61	18.99	19,38
18.61	18.99	19.38
18.61	18,99	19.38
18.02	18.40	18.79
18.02	18.40	18.79
18.02	18.40	18.79
18.02	18,40	18.79
18.02	18.40	18.79
18.02	18,40	18.79
18.02	18,40	18.79
18.02	18,40	18,79
17.19	17,57	17,96
17.01	17.39	17,78
17.01	17.39	17,78
XII-WAREHOUSINGANDSHIPPING (P) Fork Lift Driver	18.28
(P) Relief Fork Lift Driver	17.33
CarPiler	17.13
CarLiner	18.01
Labourer-Palletizer Operator 17.19 Labourer	17.01
18,66	19.05
17.71	18,10
17.51	17.90
18.39	18.78
17,57	17.96
17.39	17.78
74
And Effective Dates	Apr 16/96 Sept 1/96 Sept 1/97
XIII. MISCELLANEOUS CLASSIFICATIONS (P) Tester- Gradei	18.00	18.38
Tester-Grade 11	17.33	17.71
Stockman (perweek)	692,43	707,63
Storekeeper(perweek)	723.09	738.29
TruckDriver	17.18	17.56
Fork Truck Driver (Stores)	18,28	18.66
ElevatorOperator	17.14	17.52
Insecticide Sprayer	17.05	17.43
Truck Loader	17.44	17.82
LabourPool	17,19	17,57
Warehouse Cleaning
MachineOperator	17,33	17.71
GeneralLabour	17,01	17.39
GateHouseClerk(perweek)	654.20	669.40
Labour(probationary period)	16,53	16,91
Packers(probationary period)	16,53	16,91
Housekeeper	17,01	17,39
SummerStudents	13,30	13,68
18.77 18.10
723.23
753.89
17.95 19.05 17,91 17,82 18.21
17.96
18.10
17.78 685.00
17.30
17.30
17.78 14.07
XIV -TECHNICAL AND CLERICAL CLASSIFICATIONS WAGE RATES PERWEEK
Clerk Typist	533.27	546.57	560,22
Clerk Typist (Probationary)	512.11	525.41	539,06
Sr. Clerk Typist	576.24	589.54	603,19
Sr, ClerkTypist(Probationary)	553.04	566,34	579,99
PurchasingClerk	603.45	616,75	630,40
Engineering Clerk	592,56	605,86	619.51
InventoryClerk	739.60	754,80	770.40
Eng, TechnologistGradel	694,73	705,03	718.68
Eng, TechnologistGradel 1	657,48	670,78	684.43
Eng, Technologist-Graded 1
(Probationary)	643,59	656,89	670.54
Eng, TechnologistGradel 11	605,95	619.25	632,90
DraftsmanGradel	667.80	681.10	694.75
DraftsmanGrade11	652,19	665.49	679.14
LabTechnicianGradel	672,11	685.41	699,06
LabTechnicianGrade11	657.48	670.78	684,43
LabTechnician-Grade 11
(Probationary)	643.59	656.89	670,54
LabTechnicianGrade111	611.95	625.25	638,90
NOTE 1 -When an hourly paid employeels assignedto replace a foreman, this will be done on a voluntary basis. He/she shall be paid al the rale of ten (10) cents above his regular rate of pay.
75
APPENDIX A
LANTIC SUGAR SICK LEAVE PROGRAM
77
APPENDIX A
LANTIC SUGAR SICK LEAVE PROGRAM
ARTICLE 14 (6)
When an employee, covered by the Collective Labour Agreement, who has three (3) months or more of continuous service and has been transferred to Regular Status, is absent from work due to illness or non-occupationalaccidents, the duration of sick leave pay shall be determined by reference to the attached schedule and the employee will receive 75% of his base rate for that period.
This provision shall apply to absences due to illness or non-occupational accidents for a period of longer than three (3) working days, from the 1st day of hospitalization, as evidenced on Company provided hospitalization form, (Hospitalization means:
(1)	When the employee is effectively admitted to hospital with doctor authorization
or
79
(2)	When the employee has had surgery requiring general anaesthesia, in a hospital.
or
(3)	When the employee remains in a hospital for more than 12 hours under observationand treatment.) and during which time an employee is under the care of a qualified doctor. The Company reservesthe rightto havethe em ployee examined by a doctor of its choice. Sick leave pay shall be terminated immediatelyand all monies returnedto the Company in cases where the employeewilfully neglectsto followthe advice of the doctor, where the doctor has declared the employee fit to return to work or where the employee has refused examination by the Company appointed doctor, Sick leave pay shall terminate on the date the employee retires from the Company.
Employees on lay-off shall not be eligible for benefits under this plan.
No benefits shall be paid under this plan for the following absences:
80
(a)	During the first three (3) working days an employee is absent.
(b)	In cases of pregnancy without complications.
(c)	In cases of occupational accidents covered under Workers' Compensation.
(d)	Intentionally inflicted injuries or disease.
(e)	Service in the Armed Forces.
(f)	Whilevacation pay is being received.
(g)	Injuriesor diseases sustained while committing a criminal offence or disorderly conduct.
(h)	For any period during which an employeeengages in an occupation or employment for wage or profit.
(i)	During any concerted acts by employees, includinga strike, unless the Company desires to do so.
To be eligible for sick leave pay, the employee must make application for sick leave pay, report the nature of the illness and the name of the attending doctor. The application for sick leave
81
pay must be completed and filed with the Human Resources Department at the earliest opportunity. Providing the aforementioned information has been supplied, the Company will pay sick leave pay in accordance with the schedule which follows.
“Years of Service” referred to in the schedule shall be determined as at the date of illness and shall include full years only. No allowance shall be made for part years after completion of one year’s service.
Sick leave pay will not be paid for a period longer than that shown in the schedule. However, full benefits will be reinstated one (1) month after return to active employment in the case of a new disability, or after three (3) months in the case of a previous disability.
a2
SCHEDULE OF BENEFITWEEKS
LENGTH OF SERVICE	BENEFIT WEEKS
3 months to 1 year
1	Year
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10 11 12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20 21 22
23
24
25
15
15
15
15
15
15
15
16 18 20 22 24 26 26 26 26 26 26 26 26 26 26 26 26 26 26
83
OCTOBERS, 1990
APPENDIX B
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
85
OCTOBER 5,1990 APPENDIX B
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
Interpretationof Article 9,2:
Temporary promotions and transfers of employees, made after the posting of shift schedules, will be the most senior employee on the applicable shift and department provided there be equality of skill, efficiency and general ability.
Temporary promotions and transfers of employees, made before the posting of shift schedules will be the most senior employee in the applicable department providedthat their be equality of skill, efficiency and general ability.
Notwithstanding the above, employees from the labour pool will continue to be used for temporary promotions and transfers to the Pan House Department, and Filter House and Melt House Department.
The Company will select senior employees for the purpose of training to ensure that senior employees are capable of providing the necessary relief for temporary
87
assignments within the Department, provided there be equality of skill, efficiency and general ability. It is understood that the senior employee will not always be available and therefore will not receive training on all jobs to ensure adequate relief coverage.
If there is a dispute, a committee of two union representatives and two management members will meet in order to resolve the difference. If an agreement cannot be reached an adjudicator from the Department of Labour will be called to settle the dispute and render a decision. The Company and Union will have the necessary time to present their cases.
88
APPENDIX C
LANTIC SUGAR LIMITED GUIDELINES
12 HOUR SHIFTS- POWERHOUSE
89
APPENDIX C
LANTIC SUGAR LIMITED GUIDELINES
12 HOUR SHIFTS- POWER HOUSE
The 12 hour shift schedule applies only to the 7 day continuous operation of the power plant. It is not the intentthat this agreement in any way improve or reduce existing wages and benefits or significantly affect existing working hours on an annual basis. It is further understood that the implementationof the 12 hour shift must in no way hinder orjeopardize the continuous operation of the power plant in supplying services to the Refinery.
1.	Work Schedule/Hours of Work
The 12 hour shift will be based on a 4 day on, 4 day off schedule with the exception of those periods of the year when additionaldays off will be granted in order that employees continue to work 2080 straight time hours including paid time off in a normal calendar year. These additional days off must be scheduled at a time agreeable to the Company and with sufficient advance notice to allow relief
91
to be posted in the regular weekly posting. The total number of hours of work per week will vary depending on the shift schedule of the individual. Normal paid hours of work shall be 12 hours per day. Hours of work shall be ffom7:00 amto7:00pm andffom7:00 pm to 7:00 am. The normalworkweek for the relief man shall be 40 hours per week. This40 hoursshallconsistof a combination of 12 hour and 8 hour shifts as required to provide relief for continuous shift people on time off.
By mutual agreement an employee on day work who in providingrelief for 12 hour shifts and is required to work a 44 hour week shall receive 40 hours pay at regular rates and accumulate a half day off with pay. Accumulated days off must be scheduled at time agreeable to the Company and with sufficient notice to be included in the weekly posting.
2.	Overtime Provisions
Overtime at one and one-half times the regular rate shall only be paid:
a)	After 12 hours at regular rates of pay on any shift.
92
b)	After40 hours have beenworked in a weekly payroll period at regular rates when an employee is on day work only.
c)	Foralltimeoutsidethepostedhours. This shall not apply when an employee on day work is rescheduled to cover the absence of an employee on continuous shift.
d)	After48 hourshave beenworked in a weekly payroll period at regular rates when an employee is on continuous shift operation, including thoseweeksinwhichaholidayfalls.
e)	Article 13-2 (c) shall not apply to those on 12 hour continuous shift operation.
f)	Pay for all unscheduled hours worked by Stationary Engineers on Sunday will be at double time.
3.	Premium Pay
When an employee is requiredto work on one of the holidays listed in Article 10 of the agreement he shall be paid as outlined in Article 13.3(b) in the existing agreement, (with the
93
exception that the rate of two and one halftimes will become two times and the rate of three times will become two and one half times. This will ensure that the employee receives the same number of premium hours of pay as were received in the original agreement for holiday pay). The holiday shall be considered to begin at 7:00 am on the day of the holiday and extend to 7:00 am on the day immediately following the holiday for those persons working the 12 hour shift.
The existing shift differentials would be combinedto provide a 84 cent per hour shift differential for nightshift (7:00 pm to 7:00 am).
4.	Bereavement Leave
Bereavement Leave will be as per Article 14(2) exceptthateach12 hour shift will account for 1 1/2 days. When leave of 5 full days is applicable 4 consecutive 12 hour shifts will be granted, and when leave of 1 day is applicable one 12 hour shift will be granted.
94
5.	Payment for Holidays
Article 10,4(b) will be applied in determining paymentfor holidays and one days pay will be calculated on the basis of 12 hours for a day.
6.	General
It is understood that the availability of relief personnelto cover absentees is critical to the success of the 12 hour shift.Employees who will not be able to report for work at their scheduled time call in to the foreman on duty as early as possible. Under normal circumstances this call should be made no laterthan 4 hours priorto the scheduled time for reporting to work. It is also understoodthat those people on time off must show a willingness when contacted to report for relief work. Any difficulty in providing adequate relief personnel will require an immediate return to the historical8 hour shift schedule.
95
7.	Return to 8 Hour Shift
The Company retains at all times the rightto return to 8 hour shift schedule. The Company will as well respond to a written request by the Union to return to the 8 hour shift schedule.
8.	Payroll Period
Forthose employees on 12 hour shift the payroll week will end at 7:00 am Sunday. The total number of accumulated hours per week for the operators will vary depending on the actual hours worked according to the shift schedule. The number of regular paid hours will be 40 hours per week.
96
APPENDIX D
EDUCATIONALLEAVE POLICY
97
APPENDIX D
EDUCATIONALLEAVE POLICY
Purpose:To provide an opportunity for
employees to have educational leave and
retain their seniority.
Guidelines:
1)	Written request will be made to the employee’s immediate supervisor at least two (2) months prior to the requested date of leave. The written request will include the following information: the course subject with a brief explanation of the curriculum, starting and finishing dates of the course, and the name of the accredited educational institution.
Approval of such request will depend on the Company’s ability to replace the employee.
2)	A maximum of five (5) employees at any time may be on educational leave. The Company reserves the right to restrict the number to one employee per classification.
3)	The leave must be for no less than three (3) months and no longer than
99
twelve (12) months. An employee will begranted educational leave only three (3) times during their career.
4)	The full premium (Company and employee share) of health, dental and life insurance coverage must be paid on a monthly basis by the employee.
5)	Employeecontributionsto the Pension Plan will be owed on their return to work and will be deducted from their pay cheque during the following year.
6)	Vacations and Statutory Holidays will not accrue during the period of leave.
7)	Only employees with two (2) years or more of seniority will be eligible to apply for educational leave.
8)	Employees will retain their seniority during the period of leave and upon their return will be assigned to the position they held when educational leave started. Vacancies created by an educational leave will be filled by a temporary assignment.
100
APPENDIX E
CONTINUOUS SHIFT SCHEDULE
101
APPENDIX E
CONTINUOUS SHIFT SCHEDULE
The following terms and conditions will apply:
STATUTORY HOLIDAYS
• Each employee on scheduled day off will be paid 12 hours pay for the statutory holiday. (Normal qualification requirements.)
■ Payforall hoursworkedonthestatutory holiday would be at 2.5 or3 times the base rate depending on the holiday.
HOLIDAYS PAID @ 2.5 TIMES FOR ALL
HOURS WORKED ARE AS FOLLOWS:
New Years Day Easter Monday Queens Birthday Dominion Day New Brunswick Day Christmas Period Holiday Thanksgiving Day Remembrance Day Dec. 24 and Dec. 26
103
HOLIDAYS PAID @ 3 TIMES FOR ALL HOURS WORKED ARE AS FOLLOWS:
Good Friday Labour Day Christmas Day
OVERTIMEQUALIFICATIONS:
1.	Premium payfor Saturdayand Sunday work will not apply to those employees working the continuous shifts.
2.	Normalovertime premiums (1.5 times the employees base rate) will apply to this group under the following conditions:
A After 12 hours worked in one day.
B. After48 hoursworked inone payroll week.
Employees will be paid for working on scheduled days off,during the eightweek schedule, in any one pay period as follows:
-	The first day worked at 1.5 times
the base rate.
-	The second day worked at 2 times
the base rate.
-	The third day worked at 1.5 times
104
the base rate.
-The fourth day worked at 1.5 times the base rate.
SHIFT DIFFERENTIAL:
A shift differential of $0.84 per hour will be
paid for all hours worked on the 7:00 p.m.
to 7:00 a.m. shift.
VACATIONS
' Vacation relief people will work 36 or 48 hours at straight time in any one week when working the continuous shift schedule. (A bank will be maintained for continuous shift relief people.)
' Vacation will be credited on the basis of 40 hours pay for one week of vacation.
■	Vacations will only be granted on the basis of one week within that pay period.
■	Vacation time off will be credited as per that employees work schedule for that particular week. The employees continuous shift bank will be adjusted during the vacation week as per his regular work schedule.
105
■	When a statutory holiday falls during the vacation week, the employee will be granted eight hours pay at his base rate in addition to his 40 hours of vacation pay. (This 8 hours may be applied to the continuous shift bank.)
BEREAVEMENTLEAVE
-	Bereavementleaveof one day will be one day of 12 hours.
-	Bereavement leave of 3 days will be two 12 hour shifts.
■	Bereavementleaveof5 dayswill be4 consecutive 12 hour shifts.
ABSENTEEISM:
Absences not covered by sick leave or compensation will result in the employees pay being reduced by 12 hours pay per scheduled day absent.
(in such cases, the employess bank will be adjusted as if the employee had worked.)
106
REST PERIODS AND LUNCH PERIODS.
A.	Each employee shall be allowed two 10 minuterestperiodsto betaken at a time designated by his or her supervisor.
B,	Each employee working on 12 hour shifts will be given two20 minute lunch periodsfor a meal on the job or off the job where relief workers are available wthout loss of pay.
PAY FOR CONTINUOUS SHIFT SCHEDULE:
1.	Normal pay for employeesworking the continuous shift schedule will be 40 hours at the employees base rate.
2.	In a week when the employee is scheduled to work 48 hours, there will beeight hoursaddedtothe employees banked time.
3.	In a week when the employee is scheduledto work36 hours, four hours will be deducted from the employees banked time.
4.	Under normal conditions the banked limits will be no more than 40 hours
107
owed to the bank and no surplus greater than 80 hours per employee.
5.	Time off granted for accumulated banked time will be granted on the basis of one or multiple full weeks. (hourfor hour.) Bankedtimewill notbe granted for absenteeism.The use of bankedtime for special circumstances such as plant shut downs or lay-off will be considered on the merit of each case.
6.	Thenormalpayperiodwillbeffom7:00 a.m. Sunday until 7:00 a.m. the following Sunday.
PLANT SHUT DOWNS
It is understood that it may be necessary to shut the refinery down during the continuous schedule for one or more weeks due to business reasons.
Such shut downs will result in the continuous schedule being interrupted and it will be picked up on the start up day as per the continuous schedule. (When it is possible to plan it, these shut downs will be scheduled at the end of a pay period.)
In addition, nothing in this clause or any other clause will preventthe company from
108
shutting down at any time due to emergency conditions or conditions beyond the company's control such as late arrival of raw materials, cancellation of customer orders, equipment or powerfailures,acts of God etc.
During planned or emergency shut downs employees will be paid only for those hours worked.
SICK LEAVE QUALIFICATION:
The waiting period for those employees working on the continuous schedule will be two 12 hourscheduledshifts.
MEALALLOWANCE:
When an employee is requiredto work two hours or more beyond the end or before his scheduled shift he will be entitled to a meal allowance of $8.00.
109
110
TEN DAY PRODUCTION - FOUR DAYS OFF
12 HOUR SHIFTS
Shift	M	T	W	T	F	s	S	M	T	W	T	F	s	s
Day	X	A	A	C	C	B	B	A	A	c	C	X	X	X
Night		B	B	A	A	C	C	B	B	A	A			
Day	X													
Night		B	B	A	A	C	C	B	B	A	A	X	X	X
-Night			C	C	B	B	A	A	C	C	B	B			
Day	X	C	C	B	B	A	A	C	C	B	B	X	X	X
Night		A	A	C	C	B	B	A	A	C	C			
Start-up Tuesday morning at 7:00 a.m.
10/4 TWELVE HOUR DAY SHIFTSCHEDULE
The following terms and conditions will apply:
STATUTORY HOLIDAYS
-	Each employee will be paid 8 hours pay for the statutory holiday. (Normal qualificationrequirements.)
-	Payforall scheduledhoursworked on the statutory holidaywould be at 1.5 or 2timesthebaseratedependingonthe holiday.
Pay for hours worked beyond the scheduled 12 hours on the statutory holiday will be 2.5 or 3 times the base rate depending on the holiday.
HOLIDAYS PAID @ 1.5 TIMES ARE AS FOLLOWS:
New Years Day Easter Monday Queens Birthday Dominion Day New Brunswick Day Christmas Period Holiday Thanksgiving Day Remembrance Day Dec.24 and Dec.26
111
HOLIDAYS PAID @ 2 TIMES ARE AS FOLLOWS:
Good Friday Labour Day Christmas Day
OVERTIMEQUALIFICATIONS:
1,	Premiumpayfor Saturday and Sunday work will not apply tothose employees working the 10/4 shifts.
2.	Normal overtime premuims will apply to this group under the following conditions:
A.	After 12 hours worked in one day.
B.	After48 hoursworked in one payroll week.
Employees will be paid for working on scheduled days off.duing the six week schedule, in any one pay period as follows:
-	The first day worked at 1.5 times the base rate.
-	Thesecondday worked at2timesthe base rate.
-	The third day worked at 1.5 times the base rate.
112
■ Thefourth dayworked at 1.5 times the base rate.
SHIFT DIFFERENTIAL:
A shift differential of $0.84 per hour will be
paid for all hours worked on the 7:00 p.m.
to 7:00 a.m, shift.
VACATIONS
-	Vacation relief people will work 36 or 48 hours at straight time in any one week when working the 10/4 shift schedule. (A bank will be maintained for 10/4 relief people.)
-	Vacation will be credited on the basis of 40 hours pay for one week of vacation.
-	Vacations will only be granted on the basis of one weekwithin that pay period.
-	Vacationtimeoffwill becreditedas per that employee's work scheduleforthat particular week. The employee's 10/4 shift bank will be adjusted during the vacation week as per his regular work schedule.
-	When a statutory holiday falls during
113
the vacation week, the employee will be granted eight hours pay at his base rate in addition to his 40 hours of vacation pay. (This 8 hours may be applied to the 10/4 shift bank.)
BEREAVEMENTLEAVE
■	Bereavement leave of one day will be one day of 12 hours.
- Bereavement leave of 3 days will be two 12 hour shifts.
■	Bereavementleave of 5 days will be 4 consecutive 12 hour shifts.
ABSENTEEISM:
Absences not covered by sick leave or compensation will result in the employee's pay being reduced by 12 hours pay per scheduled day absent.
(In such cases, the employees bank will be adjusted as if the employee had worked.)
REST PERIODS AND LUNCH PERIODS.
A. Each employee shall be allowed two 10 minute rest periods to betaken at a
114
time designated by his or her
supervisor.
B. Each employee working on 12 hour shifts will be given two20 minutelunch periods for a meal on the job or off the job where relief workers are available without loss of pay.
PAY FOR 10/4 SHIFTSCHEDULE:
1.	Normal pay for employeesworking the 10/4 shift schedule will be 40 hours at the employee's base rate.
2.	In a week when the employee is scheduled to work 48 hours, there will be eight hours added to the employee's bankedtime.
3.	In a week when the employee is scheduled to work 36 hours, four hours will be deducted from the employee's banked time.
4.	Under normal conditions the banked limits will be no more than 40 hours owedto the bank and no surplus greater than 80 hours per employee.
5.	Time off granted for accumulated
115
banked time will be granted on the basis of one or multiple full weeks. (hourfor hour.) Bankedtimewill notbe granted for absenteeism.The use of bank time for special circumstances such as plant shut down or lay-off will be considered on the merit of each case.
6.	The normalpay periodwill beffom7:00 a.m. Sunday until 7:00 a.m. the following Sunday.
PLANT SHUT DOWNS
It is understood that it may be necessary to shut the refinery down during a 10/4 six week schedule for one or more weeks due to business reasons.
Such shut downs will result in the 10/4 schedule being interrupted and it will be picked up on the start up week commencing with the start of the next ten day schedule. (When it is possible to plan it, these shut downs will be scheduled at the end of a pay period.)
In addition, nothing in this clause or any other clause will preventthe company from shutting down at any time due to emergency conditions or conditions beyond
116
the company's control such as late arrival of raw materials, cancellation of customer orders, equipment or power failures, acts of God etc.
During planned or emergency shut downs employeeswill be paid only for those hours worked.
SICK LEAVEQUALIFICATION:
The waiting period for those employees working the 10/4 schedule will be two 12 hour scheduled shifts.
MEALALLOWANCE
When an employee is required to work two hours or more beyond the end or before his scheduled shift he will be entitled to a meal allowance of $8.00.
117
118
TEN DAY PRODUCTION - FOUR DAYS OFF
12 HOUR SHIFTS
APPENDIX F
TRADESMEN
119
APPENDIX F
TRADESMEN
a)	Offer a development program to providethe necessarytraining to update or learn these new skills.
b)	A pre-apprentice training programwill be offeredto those employeeswishing to pursue a career in the trades.
c)	Nocurrenttradesmenwill losetheirjob because of trade flexibility and dual ticketing. In the event of a lay-off in a trade classification, work which was previously performed under the historical trade assignment by that classificationwill not be done by another trade.
d)	Dual Ticketing
The company will extendto tradesmen classified as Electrician, Instrument Mechanic, Pipefitter, Welder and Mechanicthesupport neededto attend Block Releasetraining. Employeeswith more than ten (1O) years remaining to
121
retirement will be accepted in this program.Thenumberofcandidateswill be subject to maintenance staffing needs. As an apprentice, the candidate’s performance will be reviewed semi-annually until his successful completion of the apprenticeshipprogram. Failuretopass the department of Advanced Education and Labour test or to meet expected practical experience progress may mean the immediate dicontinuance of the candidate’s participation to the apprenticeship program.
DESCRIPTION
In addition to refinery historical work assignments the following trade tasks have been agreed upon;
- setting up of staging to two lifts by all trades.
‘	rigging work by all trades to the extent
necessaryto maintainequipment within theirtrade. Specialtrainingwill be given to certain individuals for heavy or unusual rigging. The Rigger classification will be eliminated by attrition.
f22
heating, burning, and tack welding by all trades to the extent nescessary to maintain equipmentwithin their trade,
minor painting by all trades for the purpose of properly completing trade tasks assigned. Field painting will be limited to corrosion protecting touch up. Shop rebuilds or new fabrications may include primer and finish coat.
piping and tubing by trades other than pipefitters to the extent necessary to maintain equipment within their trade. Mechanics will also continue to be expected to remove and replace pipings and fittings.
PLCandDCS installation, replacement servicingand trouble-shootingby both Electriciansand InstrumentMechanics regardless of the application.
Electricians will perform any Instrumentationwork they are trained for or capable of doing. (all current Instrument Mechanics, will be offered an Industrial Electrician Apprenticeship).
MechanicaltradesincludingPipefitters, Welders, Industrial Mechanics,
123
Tinsmiths, Machinist, Mechanic-Pipefitters, and Pipefitters-Welders will perform any work they are or may be trained for or capable of doing within these trades.
TheagreementsignedJunelO, 1991 concerning the workperformedby the tradesmenat the Saint John Refinery is hereby extended to the end of this CollectiveAgreement.
124