CONVENTION COLLECTIVE 2002-2005 COLLECTIVEAGREEMENT2002-2005
TUAC
UPON
LOCAL 766P
UNION INTERNATIONALE DES TRAVA1LLEURS ET TRAVAILLEUSES UNIS DE L1 ALIMENTATION ET DU COMMERCE, CTC, FAT-COl UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION. CLC, AFL-CIO
Kraft Canada Inc.
00608 (07)
Usine de LaSalle / LaSalle Plant LaSalle, Quebec
CONVENTION
COLLECTIVE
COLLECTIVE
AGREEMENT
ENTRE
BETWEEN
KRAFT CANADA INC. LASALLE, QUEBEC
KRAFT CANADA INC. LASALLE, QUEBEC
ET
AND
L’UNION INTERNATIONALE
DES TRAVAILLEURS UNIS DE L’ALIMENTATION
ETDE COMMERCE
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION
SECTION LOCALE 766P (FAT-COI, CTC, FTQ)
LOCAL 766P (AFL-CIO, CLC, QFL)
INDEX CF ARTICLES
ARTICLE
PAGE
1.	Recognition..............................................................  4
2.	Bargaining Unit...........................................................4
3.	Management..............................................................5
4.	Union Security............................................................6
5.	Grievance Procedure.......................................................7
6.	Arbitration..............................................................10
7.	Paid Plant Holidays......................................................12
8.	Rest Periods.............................................................15
9.	Meal Periods.............................................................15
10.	Tool Allowance for Trade Employees......................................17
11.	Working Clothes.........................................................18
12.	Appearance in Court.....................................................18
13.	Licenses................................................................18
14.	Health and Safety.......................................................19
15.	Union Notices...........................................................22
16.	Absence with Pay........................................................22
17.	Vacations...............................................................24
18.	Normal working hours, overtime and working schedules (5-2 & 2-2-3)......27
19.	Minimum Recompense......................................................30
20.	Benefits................................................................34
21.	Wages and Job Rate Rules..............................................  34
22.	Shift Premiums..........................................................37
23.	Seniority...............................................................38
24.	Notice of Lay-off.....................................................  47
25.	Leaves of Absence.......................................................48
26.	No Strike or lockouts.........,........................................51
27. Duration of Agreement....................................................51
Memorandum of interpretation
- Distribution of Overtime............................................53
Employment Security Plan.................................................58
Appendix "A"- HourlyWageRates............................................61
APPENDIX “B” - Benefit Plans.............................................65
1)	Extended Health Plan.............................................65
2)	Dental Plan......................................................74
3)	Life Insurance...................................................79
4)	Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance.....................83
5)	Non-Occupational Accident and Sickness Disability Plan (weekly indemnities) .85
6)	Long Term Disability (LTD).......................................89
7)	Retirement Plan..................................................92
8)	Retirement Committee.............................................97
9)	Kraft Saving Plan (ESP/RSP)......................................98
Appendix “C” Revision Process of Job Description.........................99
Letter of agreement - Right to refuse - health and safety...............100
Letter of agreement- Prism Line Monitoring..............................101
Letter of agreement - Medical Plan premiums.............................102
2
AGREEMENT
BETWEEN:
KRAFT CANADAINC. LASALLE, QUEBEC
and/or its Successor
Hereinafter called "the Company"
AND
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION affiliated with the A.F. of L.-C.I.O., The Canadian Labour Congress (C.L.C.), and the Quebec Federation of Labour (Q.F.L.) on behalf of Local 766?
and/or its Successor.
Hereinafter called "the Union",
PREAMBLE
Recognizingthat the welfare of the Company and that of its employees depends upon die welfare of the business as a whole, and recognizing iurtherthat a relationship of goodwill and nubual respect between employer and employees cai contribute greatly to the maintenance and increase of that welfare, the parties ofthis contractjoin together in the following Agreement.
3
ARTICLE 1 ■ RECOGNITION
1.1	The company recognizes the Union as the Sole collective bargaining agency in regard to rates of pay, hours of work, and such other working conditions and provisions as are included in this Agreementfor the bargaining unit, as defined in Article 2 • Bargaining Unit.
1.2	The Company will not bargain collectively vaih any other labour organization on imi affecting these employeesduringthe tHmofthis Agreement.
1.3	Throughout this Agreement, the term "President of the Union" refers to the actual president of the Union or his designated representative.
ARTICLE2 • BARGAINING UNIT
2.1	The Bargaining Unit is composed of all the employees below the rank of foreman, in the employ of the Company, at itsplant in LaSalle, Quebec, as hereunder defined.
The term "employees" as used in this Agreement shall refer to and include all the employees directly or indirectly attached to production, inducting employees in receiving, shipping, delivery, maintenance, stationary engineers, plant service employees, janitors and machine cleaners as well as all laboratory personnel, inducting technicians, Quality Control Microbiologists, employees within the meaning of the Labour Code but excluding office employees, control and development employees, watchmen and guards, Maintenance Work Clerk as well as Quality Control and Technical Services Managers, Quality Control Supervisors, and Quality Control Chemists.
The term "employee(s) on probation" is used for the purpose of plant seniority only in this Agreement, as defined in Article 23, s3±Lai23.2,
2.2	Work customarily performed by the employees in the bargaining unit, (but not excluding new jobs associated with existing or new operations related to, or under the scope of Section 2.1 of this Article), shall not be done on the plant premises by persons excluded from the scope and jurisdiction of this Agreement, or by employees not covered by this Agreement, except for purpose of experimental development, non-manual work in ccnnecticn with audits, on the job training or instruction of employees, or in cases of emergency (2.3 below), or by sub-contracting (2.4 below).
2.3	Throughout this Agreement, the term "emergency" is understood to mean an Act of God, catastrophe, disaster or any reason of a similar nature and unanticipated conditions when immediate action is necessary to prevent spoilage or loss of product or danger to perscns or property.
4
ARTICLE 2 - BARGAINING UNIT (cont'd)
2.4	In accordance with 2.2 above, it is understood that the Company may need to occasionally subcontract work, but the Company agrees that there shall be no hiring of sub-contractors to perform such work on the plant premises before informing the union, and discussing the matter with the union before awarding the contract, where:
1)	The work csn be performed by bargaining unit employees, (e.g. appropriate skills, availability ofpersonnel).
2)	Necessary equipment or tools to perform the work are available at the plant.
3)	Such work can be performed by bargaining unit employees within required time limits. The term "bargainingunit employees" in the foregoing shall mean to include employees on lay-off.
2.5	Use of the masculine genderin this Agreement is considered also to include the feminine,
ARTICLE 3 - MANAGEMENT
3.1	Subject to the provisions of this Agreement, the management and operation of the business, and the employment, direction, promotion, transfer, lay-off, termination, retirement, reprimand, suspension, or discharge of employees or just cause, is vested solely in the Management of the Company. The exercise of such functions is not subject to arbitration unless related to the provisions of the Agreement.
3.2	Neither the Company nor any person acting for the Company shall in any manner whatsoever, seek to dominate, to influsTce, hinder or discriminate against the lawful activities of the Union, its officers and stewards, or against any present and prospectivemember of the Union.
3.3	The Company and the Union adhere and support the following human ricjibs principles:
The Company does not refuse to employ, to continue to employ and/or does not discriminate or intimidate any person based on Quebec Human Rights and Freedoms prohibited motives related to employment and working conditions based on ihe, religion, age, sex or sexual orientation, handicap, ethnic or national origin concerning the exercise of a right recognized in the Collective Agreement.
3.4	Throughout this Agreement the term "Plant Manager" refers to the actual Plant Manager or his duly designated representative.
3.5	Electronic watching and observation systems are used exclusively to protect the employer's property against criminal actions such as theft and property damage. At no time, these systems are to be used to evaluate employee performance or as proof for disciplinary measures unless it is a result of a criminal action.
5
ARTICLE 4 ■ UNION SECURITY
4.1	All employees who after the anniversary date of this Agreement are members of the Union (in accordance with its constitution and by-laws) and all employees who become members after such period must, as a condition of employment, maintain their membership in good standing with the Union so long as this Agreement or its renewal continues in force.
The Company agrees to deduct each week from earnings due and payable to each employee coming within the scope of the bargaining unit as defined in Article 2.1 of this collective agreement, the regular weekly union dues and to remit such deduction, together with a list of all employees for whom such deductions have been made and indicating the name of those who have not paid their union dues to the Financial Secretary of local 766P, United Food and Commercial Workers international Union. The weekly union dues deducted are remitted during the week which follows the deductions.
Any union dues payable and not processed through payroll deductions because the employee has no earnings at the time the deductions are made is claimed and collected by the Union directly from the employee.
4.3	The Company agrees that upon receipt of written authorization in the form of a signed Union Membership Card, to deduct from the earnings of employees joining the Union after the ratification of this Agreement the initiation fee due from him. to Local 766P, United Food and
, Commercial Workers International Union and to remit the amount so deducted to the Union at the time of the next remittance of weekly union dues. Special assessments if levied in accordance with the constitution and by-laws of the Union are deducted at source for all members of the Union who have earnings due and payable at the time of the deduction upon proper notification from the Union.
4.4	The Company is not responsible financially or otherwise, either to the Union or to any employee, for any failure to make deductions or for making improper or inaccurate deductions or remittance. However, in any instance in which an error occurs in the amount of any deduction of dues from ai employee's earnings,the Company adjusts it directly with the employee.
In the event of any mistake by the Company in the amount of its remittance to the Union, the Company shall adjust the amount in a subsequentremittance. The Company's liability for any or all amountsdeductedpursuant to the provisions in this Article shall terminate at the time it remits the amountspayable to the designated officer or officers of the Union.
4,2 a)
b)
6
ARTICLE 5 - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
5.1	a) Both the Company and the Union emphasize the desirability of a satisfactory grievance
procedure, the purpose of which will be to settle grievances as promptly as possible. For the purposes of this Agreement, grievances are understood to be any disputes, disagreements, dissatisfactions, differences or alleged grievances pertaining to any reprimand, warning or any disciplinary measure whatsoever of employee(s), arising oui of the provisions of this Agreement.
b)	The Company shall notify the President and BeocaxJing Secretary of the Union in writing within one (1) working day from the &te the employee is notified in writing of his suspension or discharge. The written notice to the employeeshall specify the reasons for his suspension or discharge. If the employee believes that he has been unjustly iaid-off, suspended or discharged, he shall submit his grievance in writing to Management, through a member of the Grievance Committee, within five © working days, or any other mutually agreed time period, from the &te that the official written notice was given to the President of the Union. The grievance procedure in these cases shall begin at the Second Step of the Grievance Procedure no later than five (5) working days from the date that the written grievance is received by the Department Manager, after which it can be submitted ty eitherpartyto the subsequentstepsofthe GrievanceProcedure.
For the purpose of Article 5, Section 5.1 b), and Article 6, Section 6.6, the terms "laid-off" or "lay-off shall also be. understood to mean and include the case of any employee who believes that he was not recalled, in accordance with Article 23 ■ Seniority, of this Agreement.
c)	The disciplinary record of employees will be reviewed every three (3) months (i.e. the second week of March, June, September and December) by the Union President and the industrial Relations Manager. If, after twelve (12) months from the date of the warning letter or disciplinary note, there has been no need for a further warning letter or disciplinary note for the same offence, 1he warning letter or disciplinary note will be removed from the employee's record. It is agreed consultation ± any step in the following procedure will take place quietly and speedily so that any possible cause of friction may be reduced foarrtirrirruri.
5.2	The Union agrees to appoint or elect, and the Company to recognize Stewards (one per group of 30 employees) who shall be employees of the Company, but excluding employees on probation, to dealwithmatters affecting employees in departments in the Company's plant.
A list of these Stewards shall be suppliedto the Company. The Company shall be advisedby the Union as soon as possible of any change in this list and the Union shall confirm this in writing within five (5) work days of such change.
7
ARTICLE 5 - GRIEVANCEPROCEDURE (cont’d)
The Company shall furnish the Union with a list of Foremen and Supervisors and the department to which they are attached. The Union shall be advised by the Company as soon as possible of any change to this list and the Company shall confirmthis in writing within five (5) work days of such change.
5.3	The Union also agrees to appoint or elect a Grievance Committee, all employees of the
Company, but excluding employees on probation, to deal with grievances which may not be settled in the first or second steps described in Section 5.4 below. This Grievance Committee will not exceed four (4) in number including the President of the Union. A list of Grievance Committee members shall be supplied to the Company. The Company shall be advised in writing of any changes in	list within five (5) workdays of such changes.
5.4	Since the Company and the Union emphasize the desirability of a satisfactory grievance procedure, the purpose of which will be to settle grievances as promptly as possible, grievances shouldbe submitted as soon as possible.
Therefore neither the Company or the Union shall be required to recognize a grievance submitted by an employee after thirty (30) calendar days have elapsed from the &te of the incident, or after some further period with the consent of both parties.
The above time limit shall not apply in those iriEferlies where the grievance involves an error in the computationof an employee's pay.
For the purpose of this Article, the term "work days" is understood to exclude Saturdays, Sundays and Public Holidays, except for departments which are operating on a seven (7) day continuous operation basis, in which case work days, for the First Step of the Grievance Procedure only, shall mean those days when the Steward or oificer of the Union and the Department foreman are at work.
If an employee believes he has a grievance, he should report the grievance at once in the manner describedhereafter.
The aggrieved employee or employees may also be present during the above three steps of the GrievanceProcedure, or if desired, by either party.
With the consent of both parties, the delays mentioned hereafter can be extended.
Failure of the Union to notify the Company in accordance with, the procedure listed below, the grievance shall be considered settled on the basis of that decision, and shall not be subject to furtherproceeding.
8
ARTICLE 5 • GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE(cont’d)
5.4	Grievances shall be dealt with progressively in the followingmanner.
FIRST STEP
Between the aggrieved employee with, the Steward, and the Foreman of the Department in which the employee works - or • between the Steward and the Foreman. The Foreman shall meet the aggrieved employee and the Steward within two (2) hours from such request.
The Company shall render its decision within two (2) full workdays, but failing to do so, the Union may submit the grievance to the next step.
The Union will notify the Company of its intention to appeal firm the decisiongiven in the First Step by submitting the grievance in writing to the Manager of the Department or his duly designated replacement within two (2) full workdays.
The Company has two (2) full workdays, following the Union’s decision to appeal, to proceed at the Second Step.
SECOND STEP
Between the President of the Union, with or without the Steward, and one other nFfingr of the Union and the Manager of the Department, the Supervisor and/or the Foreman with or without the industrial Relations Manager, or his representative. Grievancespresented t this step shall be in writing.
The Company shall render its decision within two (2) full work days, but failing to do so, the Union may submit the grievance to the next step.
The Union will notify the Company of its intention to appeal from the decision given in the Second Step within five (5) full work cfeys.
The Company has five (5) full work cfeys, followingthe Union’s decision to appeal, to proceed at the Third Step.
THIRD STEP
Between the President of the Union with the Grievance Committee, with or without the Steward, and representatives of Management. A Representative of the Union may be present at such meeting.
The Company shall render its decision within, five (5) full work days, but failing to do so, the Union may submitthe grievance to Arbitration within thirty (30) calendar days.
9
ARTICLE 5 • GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE(cont’d)
5.5	It is understood that all meetings between Officers of the Union, Stewards, the Grievance Committee, the Safety Committee and the Francization Committee, and members of Management, for handling matters under the scope and jurisdiction of this Agreement, shall be scheduled by Management at times suitable to the operation of the business. In the event that such meeting are held during prevailing rate periods, the Officers of the Union, Stewards, the Grievance Committee, the Safety Committee and the Francization Committee affected shall be paid the prevailing rate, i.e., the rate the employee would have been paid had he been at work. The above provisions shall also be paid to the aggrieved employee (except an employee who is under suspension or who has been discharged), or any employee who is required to attend such meetings as a witness with respectto the grievance.
5.6	Any grievances arising directly between the Union and the Company, instead of following the regular grievance procedure may be submittedin writing by either party to the other at the Third Step. Discussions between the Company and the Union apart from the grievance procedure shall not preclude resort to the grievance procedure.
5.7	A Union Steward may discuss with the Foreman of his department matters which may directly affect the welfare of his department even though at the same time such matters may not constitute a grievance.
in the absence of the Steward, the Union President may have such discussions with the Foreman. The Union Steward may be accompanied by the President of the Union in the event that either the Stewardor the Foreman requests his presence. Similar discussions may take place between a representativeof the Union or an officer of the Union local and a representative of Management.
5.8	The Union agrees that its Officers, Stewards and members shall not transact Union business during hours for which they are paid by the Company, except as provided by this Agreement. It is understood that a Steward, or in his absence an Officer, is expected to assist in the adjustment of grievances as provided in Article 5 and to transact other Union business falling under the scope of the Agreement. In order to prevent disruptions to the regular work, the Steward, or in his absence an officer, will request his Foreman, or in his absence his immediate Supervisor, to make the necessary arrangements so that he can be relieved from his job (with no loss of earnings) as soon as possible, but vitfrin one (1) hour, in accordance with the foregoing, if a Steward, or in his absence an Officer of the Union, needs to have a discussion with an employee in another department about a grievance, he will request his Foreman, or in his absence his immediate Supervisor, to make the necessary arrangements with the Foreman of the other departmentso that he canvisitthat department.
ARTICLE 6 - ARBITRATION
6.1	Any grievance which has been handled in accordance with Article 5 and has not been settled,
and which involves the interpretation or application of any of the provisions of this Agreement, may be referred by either party to Arbitration within a period of not more than thirty (30) days following the meeting referred to in the Third Step of the Grievance Procedure.
10
ARTICLE 6 - ARBITRATION (confd)
The party submitting the grievance to Arbitration shall inform the other party in wri ti ng and by registered mail. For the purpose of this clause, the date appearing on this registered mail shall be consideredto be the date that the grievance has been filed for the purpose of Arbitration. Where a grievance is submitted to arbitration by the Union, the notice of arbitration is sent to the Industrial Relations Manager,
At the request of officials of either the Company or the Union a grievance which has not been settled in accordance with Article 5, and which has been filed for the purpose of Arbitration may be the subject of further discussion in a meeting between the respective representatives of the parties. The object of the clause is to give the parties an opportunity to promote the settlement of such a grievance prior to Arbitration.
6.2	a) An arbitrator shall be chosen as follows: the union lawyer shall submit the names
of three arbitrators to the employer. In the event that the parties cannot agree on the choice of the arbitrator, the grievances shall be referred to one of the arbitrators listed In Article 6.2b), in turn.
b)	Andre Bergeron Jean-huisDube LiseTousignant Marc Boisvert
6.3	The Arbitrator shall hear the case within three (3) weeks of his appointment and render his decision within three (3) weeks of the ckte of the last hearing. These time limits may be extended by agreement between both parties or at the discretion of the Arbitrator if he deems it necessary.
6.4	Thedecisionrenderedby the Arbitrator shall be final and binding upon all parties concerned.
6.5	The Arbitrator shall be Ifriferito the consideration of the matter submitted to hiityand shall be governed by the provisions of this Agreement. The decision of the Arbitrator shall not have the effect, in any way whatsoever, to alter, add, substitute, modify or change any of the provisions of this Agreement.
Subject to the foregoing, and providing that the grievance is referred to an Arbitrator in accordance with Section 6,1, neither party shall prevent the Arbitrator from hearing the real matter in dispute and the giving of a decision.
6.6	in the casereferred to in Article 5, Section 5.1 b), the decision of the Arbitrator shall be governed by the following rules: as agreed between the Union and the Company.
a)	The employee to be reinstated on a date at the discretion of the Arbitrator, with all the rights accrued to him under this Agreement and Wfh. full compensationfor all time lost from the datethatthe employee was laid-off, suspendedor discharged.
b)	The employee to be reinstated on a date at the discretion of the Arbitrator, with partial compensationfor time lost as determinedby the Arbitrator, but with all the rights accrued to him under this Agreement.
11
ARTICLE 6 - ARBITRATION (coni’d)
c)	The employee to be reinstated on a date at the discretion of the Arbitrator with no compensation whatsoever for time lost, but with all the rights accrued to him under this Agreement.
d)	The decision of Management related to said lay-off, suspension or dismissal of the employee to be upheld by the Arbitrator.
It is understood that time lost will be computed on the basis of a normal work week and will not include any form of overtime pay.
6.7	The cost of the Arbitrator shall be shared equally by the parties. Each party will pay its own costs, includingthose of its representatives.
ARTICLE 7 - PAID PLANT HOLIDAYS
7.1	The following paid plant holidays are observed
New Year's Day '		Jan. Ill	Jan. 01	Dec. 31, 2004
Day alter New Vear s Day		“335702	Jan U2	Jan. 03 '
Uood Friday		April 18	April 09	March 25
Victoria Day	May 20	May 10	May 24	
i-ete nationale	June 24	June 24	June 24	
Canada Day	July 01	June 3U	July 02	
Labour Day	Kept 02	Sept. 01	Sept. 06	
thanksgiving	Oct. 14	Oct. 13	Oct. 11 ~~	
Christmas	Dec. 25	Dec. 25	Dec. 24	
htoxrng Day	Dec. 26	Dec. 2<>	Dec. 27	
F loating holiday	Dec. 27	Dec. 29	Dec. 28	
Moating Holiday	Dec. 30	Dec. 30	Dec. 29	
Moating holiday	Dec. 31	Dec. 31 ~1	Dec. JO	
The date for the observance of the three (3) floaters will be agreed upon from year to year between the Companyand the Union
It is agreed that, in the case of a working day immediately preceding Christmas, namely Christmas Eve, as described in the previous paragraph, the four (4) hours worked will be paid at the rate of time and one half.
7.2	If a paid plant holiday falls on a Saturday or Sunday, the Friday preceding such Saturday or the Monday following such Sunday, and if Monday is also a holiday, the Tuesday following such Monday shall be observed, and if the Friday is also a holiday, the Thursday preceding such Friday shall be observed as a substitute holiday for all employees covered ty this Agreement.
12
ARTICLE 7 • PAID PLANT HOLIDAYS (cont'd)
7.3	An employee is entitled to holiday pay for each of the paid plant holidays specified in Article 7.1, whether or not he works onsuchholidays,pro\idingthat:
i)	he has earnings to his credit in the week in which the holiday occurs, or
ii)	he is laid-off as of the Friday immediatelyprecedingthe Monday holiday and works on that Friday, or
iii)	he has received a minimum of 26 pay cheques in the calendar year in which such paid plant holiday(s) occurs, and
iv)	such paid plant holiday(s) isobservedduringhisperiodofemployment,
Howeverhe shall forfeithis holiday pay if:
He has agreed to work on the holiday and fails to do so, unless he informs the Company that he does not want to work the holiday at least forty-eight (48) hours ahead of his scheduledstarting time.
2)	He is absentffom work on either his regular scheduled work day immediately preceding or his regular scheduled work day immediately following the paid holiday, unless such absence is excused by the Company, is due to sickness, leave of absence, or circumstances beyond his control.
The Company will advise the President of the Union of those cases where holiday pay has been forfeited. If an employeebelieves that he has been unjustly denied holiday pay, he shall submit his grievancethroughthe regular GrievanceProcedure,
Note 1: If an employee is not at work during the week when a paid plant holidays) is observed, but qualifies under Article 7.3 (iii), he will be paid holiday pay in accordance with the following:
a)	If qualified prior to the holiday(s) the rate of pay he was receiving during his last week of work.
b)	If qualifiedand paid retroactively - the rate he received on his initial return to work.
13
ARTICLE 7 - PAID PLANT HOLIDAY S (cont'd)
7.3	Note 2: The following cheques will be counted
•	A regular pay cheque
•	A SickBenefit cheque
' An LTD cheque within the initial 18-monthLTD period.
’	A Vacation or percentage cheque.
•	A CSST payment.
.	An employmentinsurance payment for a maternity leave
7.4	An employee assigned to a regular schedule 5-2 who does not work on a paid holiday is paid eight (8) hours or the number of hours on his daily schedule, at his regular rate. An employee assigned to ccntinuousoperations 2*2*3 (relay worker) who, according to his regular schedule, is on a day off during a paid holiday, is paid twelve (12) hours at his regular rate.
If an employee works on a paid holiday, he is paid for that holiday based on a minimum of eight (8) hours pay for an employee assigned to a 5-2 working schedule and twelve (12) hours pay for an employee assigned to a 2-2-3 working schedule as defined in Section 7.3 or the number of horns actually worked, whichever is greater. In addition, he is paid at the rate of double time for all hours worked on the paid holiday.
In the event that a relay worker works on a paid holiday and that day is also his scheduled first day off, he is paid an additional half-time (1/2) his regular rate for all hours worked.
In the event that a relay worker works on a paid holiday and that day is also his scheduled second day off, he is paid an additional regular rate for all hours worked.
7.5	An employee who is eligible to receive payments under the Sick Benefit Plan receives holiday pay in lieu of Sick Benefit payments in the event that paid plant holiday(s) falls during this absence.
An employee who is eligible to receive LTD payments is paid the difference between the LTD payment and holiday pay in the event that the paid plant holiday(s) falls during his absence withinthe initial 18-month LTD period.
Paid holidays falling during the absence of an employee who is eligible to receive payments underthe CSST, is paid in accordance with Section7,3.
7.6	Article 21 - Wages and Job Rate Rides, determines the hourly rates which apply for computing holiday pay.
14
ARTICLE 8 - REST PERIODS
8.1	The Company shall grant rest periods of fifteen(15) minutes during the first half of the shiftand fifteen (15) minutes during the second half of the shift, not exceeding 30 minutes before or after the regular meal period entitlement.
8,2	Employees who work more than one (1) hour overtime are granted a fifhaai (15) minutes rest period at the regular qitittingtime. The same rest period is granted to employees starting more than one (i) horn-before their regular shift. Entitlement for subsequent fifteen (15) minute rest periods is established by every two (2) hours of work thereafter, and in accordance with the posted schedules of entitlement.
8,3	All employees shall be given ten (10) minutes before quitting time to wash up and change clothes.
ARTICLE 9 • MEAL PERIODS
MEAL	DAY Sfllf l 7:00 am. to 7:00 p.m.	"NIGHT SHIFT 7:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m.
1M meal-30 minutes 2nd meal-30 minutes	between 10:30 am. & i :00 p.m. between4:00p.m. 8c6:30 p.m.	between 10:30 p.m. & 1:00 a.m. between 4:00 a.m. 8c 6:30 a.m.
IS
ARTICLE 9 - MEAL PERIODS (cont'd)
9.2	a) Employee assignedto a 5-2 working schedule
An employee is entitled to a second meal period if he works more than one (1) hour after his regular quitting time. The Company allows him. thirty (30) minutes at his prevailing rate and schedulessuch meal period to take place as soon as possible after one (1) hour has elapsed from his regular scheduled quitting time, except where such would cause spoilage or loss of production.
An employee is also entitled to a second meal period when he starts to work more than one (1) hour before his regular starting time. The Company allows him thirty (30) minutes at his prevailing rate and schedules such meal period to take place immediately before his regular scheduled time, except where such would cause spoilage or loss of production. Entitlement for such meal periods will be in accordancewith the posted schedules.
9.2	b) Employee assignedto a 2-2-3 working schedule
An employee is entitled to a third meal period if he works more than one (1) hour after his regular end of shift. The Company allows him thirty (30) minutes at his prevailing rate and schedules tins neal period so that the employee can take it as soon as possible one (l)hour after his regular end of shift, except if this could cause spoilage or loss of production.
An employee is also entitled to a third meal period when he starts work more than one (I) hour before the beginning of his regular shift. The Company allows him thirty (30) minutes at his prevailing rate and schedules this meal period so that the employee can take it immediately before the beginning of his regular starting time according to his schedule, except if this could muse spoilage or loss of production. Entitlement for such meal periods will be in accordance with the posted schedules.
9.3	a) Employee assignedto a 5-2 working schedule.
An employee is entitled to a subsequent meal period if his work continues at least four (4) hours beyond the previous meal period (Section 9.2). He will be allowed thirty (30) minutes at his prevailing rate and such meal period shall be scheduled by the Company to take place as soon as possible after completion of four (4) hours of work but not later than five (5) hours from his previous meal period, except where such would muse spoilage or loss of production. Entitlementfor such meal periods will be in accordancewith the posted schedules.
b) Employee assignedto a 2-2-3 working schedule.
An employee is entitled to a subsequent meal period if his work continues at least four (4) hours beyond the previous meal period (Section 9,2b)). He will be allowed thirty (30) minutes at his prevailing rate and such meal period shall be scheduled by the Company to take place as soon as possible after completing four (4) hours of work but no later than five (5) hours from his previous meal period, except where such would cause spoilage or loss of production. Entitlement for such meal periods will be in accordance with the posted schedules.
16
ARTICLE 9 - MEAL PERIODS (cont’d)
9,4	An employee is entitled to a meal period of thirty (30) minutes at his prevailing rate after having
completed five (5) hours of work on his non-scheduled day. Time off for such meal period shall be scheduledby the Companyto take place as soon as possible after completion of four (4) hours of work but not later than five (5) hours of work from his starting time, except where such would cause spoilage or loss of production, and in accordance with posted schedulesof entitlement. For employees who are relieved at their job during meal periods, the meal break scheduleprovided at 9.1 a) and b) shall apply. For subsequent meal periods on non-scheduled days, the provisions of Section 9.3 a) and b) shall apply.
9.5	Subjectto the foregoing provisions of the Article, The Company pays six dollars ($6.00) for a meal in the following instances:
a)	When an employee works more than one hour after his regular shift or begins to work more than one (1) hour before his regular shift.
b)	When an employee has been informed on the day before he works an unscheduled day, that his work on the unscheduled day will not exceed five (5) hours, but during the day in question he is asked to work and does work more than five (5) hours, such will be construed to mean that he has worked after his scheduled yiH-ing time for the purpose cf meal allowance.
9.6	Section 9.4 does not apply to employees working on continuous operations. These employees must remain available during these meal periods.
ARTICLE 10 • TOOL ALLOWANCE FOR TRADE EMPLOYEES
10.1	Regular trade employees of the maintenance department employees are entitled to the following
annual tool allowance as long as they possess at least one year's seniority. This allowance is payable at the beginning of the calendar year to the employee who has the tools required by the Company for this trade.
Effective January 1,2003 - $265.00 Effective January 1,2004 - $265.00 Effective January 1,2005 - $265,00
A newly hired employee msb have one (1) year of group seniority to be eligible for this allowance. M e r the date of his first anniversary, he will receive the annual allowance for the current year, and the portion of the allowance for the previous year on a pro-rata basis for full months of service.
An employee absent from work at the time of payment, will receive the complete allowance for the year in which he returns to work.
17
ARTICLE 11 - WORKING CLOTHES
11.1	The Company shall launder and furnish all uniforms at no cost to the employee, and in addition, shall provide such other clothing and footwear which may be required for work in cold or wet areas.
Ail such working clothes issued by the Company to employees remains the property of the Company and employees are held accountable for the return of such property to the Company.
A Committee comprised of Union and Management representatives make recommendations on the style of uniforms and the Safety Committee shall make recommendations on the safety of clothing furnished ty the Company.
11.2	The Company contributes;
Effective January 1,2003 - $145.00 Effective January 1,2004 - $155.00
towards the cost of safety shoes and/or boots purchased by employees for their personal use. Exceptionsto the number of pairs of safety shoes and/or boots per year is in accordancewith past practice.
Any unused portion ofthe current calendaryear's allowance may be carried overto the following calendar year. He is entitled to the full annual allowance if he works during the calendaryear. An employee is entitledto use this allowance if he is at work.
ARTICLE 12 - APPEARANCE IN COURT
12.1	The Company makes up the difference between the employee's wage rate and the amount he is paid ty the Government during the time he is required to be away on jury duty or subpoenaed to appear as a witness in ccurt.
ARTICLE 13 - LICENSES 13.1
The Company shall reimburse employees for the renewal of licenses required in the performance of their duties.
ARTICLE 14 - HEALTH AND SAFETY
14.1	The Company and the Union recognize that the participation of employees is essential for the prevention of accidents and to this effect agree to closely cooperate for the realization of this objective as follows:
a)	The Company shall continue to make appropriateprovisions for the safety and health of its
employees during hours of work, including:
1)	set-up, inspect and maintain work areas in orderto maintain safe working conditions;
2)	inform employees of the risks related to their work and safety precautions to take;
3)	analyze and investigate events which have caused occupationalaccidents;
4)	up-date the information and training program for the identification of hazardous materials;
5j provide employees with personal protective equipment, such as safety glasses with or without prescription, when required by the Company by the jobs as per Company policy and replaces it when necessary. The employees must return to the Company the personalprotective equipmentto be replaced.
6) ensure that all employees receive proper training necessary for the job in order not to put their health, safety and physical integrity, and of other employees, in danger,
b)	The Company expects tint all employees will meet their obligationsas workers: Each employee mst::
1) become familiar wtth. the prevention program which applies to hiirv*
2)	takethe necessary measures to protect his health axlphysical integrity;
3)	ensurenotto place at risk the safety, security or physical integrity of other persona who are in the work areas or at proximity of the work areas;
4)	report to his supervisor, all accidents or injury which occur at work.
5)	undergo required health exams to conform to Health 8c Safety Act and its regulations,
19
ARTICLE 14 • HEALTH AND SAFETY(cont'd)
14.2	a) A Health & Safetyjoint committee createdasper Health and Safety Act and-formed as per the
dispositionof the present paragraph meet at least once a month.
The Committee is to be formed of four (4) Union representatives,elected or appointed by the Union, and four (4)managementrepresentativesappointed by the Plant Manager. One (1) of the four(4) Unionrepresentativesexercisesthe functions ofPreventionRepresentativeforwhothe functions are those indicated in the Health and Safety Act and it’s regulations.
Alternatively, the Co-presidents prepare and hold the Health and Safety meetings, coordinate the follow-up of safety recommendations, prepare and distribute the copies of the minutes of the meetings.
b) The Central Health & Safetyjoint committee is responsible for the implementationofthe mechanisms insuring participation of the employees and insuring the follow-up as per the prevention program. The employeeswho participate in these activities are consideredto be at work.
14.3	An employee victim of an occupational disease suffers no loss of earnings for the balance of hours on the day the accident occurs or on any working day he requires medical treatment if as a result of such occupational disease he is sent home or to the hospital of his choice by the medical department or a Company representative. in any case the Company assumes the transportation cost
14.4	in order to insure that the employee meet the standards of personal physical fitness established by the Company and he comply wfh the specific programs anticipated in the Health and Safety Act and it’s regulations, the Company car?request a physical examination given ty the Company Physician, at Company expense, or request a medical certificate from the employee ’ s Physician of his choice.
Employees who are working on a shift other than day shift by their own choice are paid their regular rates when they are required to have such examinationsbefore their regular starting time or after their regular quitting time.
14.5	The Company may transfer, req u i re a medical leave of absence, demote or terminate the employment of an employeewho, in it’s belief, does not meet then o d and usual physical requirements of thejob as evidenced by the written medical certificate issuedby the Company’s physician. The Company will take this action only afterreasonableeffortofaccommodationhas been made to provide employment.
In the event of disagreement between the employee’s physicianand the Company’s physician interpretation relative to the employee’sphysical condition, the Employer may referred to a third recognized medical authoritybefore f i decision.
20
ARTICLE 14 - HEALTH AND SAFETY (cont'd)
14.6	In consideration of the nature of the Company’s business, the Union recognizes the need for maintaining high standards of sanitation and employee health in accordance v»ith Federal and Provincial laws and regulations. The Union agrees to recognize and support such Company policies and procedurespertaining to the foregoing. The Company agrees to communicateto the Union any changes to policies and procedures as they affect employees before implementing such changes.
14.7	a) When the Employerexercisesit’s right, as perthe Workmen’s Compensationand Occupational
Disease Act, to assign an employee on a temporary assignment following an occupational disease, the assignmentwill be determinedon an individual basis as per the employee’sphysical capacities, the Company business needs, and according to the opinionofthe attendingphysician and without contravening to thejob posting procedure.
b)	The employeemay be assigned by the Company:
On his usual job, on the tasks the employee is able to accomplish, taking into account his temporaryfunctional limitations.
On any other work that consists of a group oftasks that he is capable of accomplishing taking into account his temporary functional limitations.
c)	A copy of the temporary assignmentfollowing an occupational disease will be given to the PreventionRepresentativewLl±nriforty-eight (48) hours.
d)	The employee on temporary assignmentis eligible for overtime which be would have been eligible onhis regularjob if he would not have been a victim of an occupational disease, in conformitywith the Memorandum of interpretation- Distribution ofOvertime.
14.8	The employee, for whom there was consolidation,must return to his regularjob. The employee for whom there v\as cmsdLicktimbut who has a permanent medical restriction .submits a bid on apermanentjob that is available and whichhe is capable of doing in respect with the recommendationsofthe reoxjnizod medical authority in place, in consultation with the Prevention Representative. Thisjob could be givento the employee due to particular circumstancesindependentlyof the seniority after reaching agreement between the Union and the Company.
In accordancewith duty to accommodate, an employee for whom there was consolidation with a permanent medical restrictionmay obtain a transfer to ajob that he is capable of performing.
In such case, ajob transfer form will be posted and an employee interested in exchangingjob with the incumbent of the said identifiedjob, must write down his name and thejob he holds. A noticeofjob transfer will be posted during four (4) working days.
21
ARTICLE 14 - HEALTH AND SAFETY (orat'd)
Amongst the applicants, priority will be given to the employee holding a regular job which the employee to be transferred is capable of performing according to the evaluation and the group seniority. The two (2) employees must reach mutual agreement and consent in the said transfer. Upon such a transfer, a five (5J day acceptanceperiod applies to the employeewho applied for the job transfer,
14.9	Any grievance related to this article is referreddirectlyto the third step
ARTICLE 15 • UNICNNOTICES
15.1	The Union President shall have the right to pest on notice beards, bulletins pertaining to meetings of the Union, election of cffkes, educational, social and recreational events. The contents of such notices shall not contain anything detrimental to Company interests.
ARTICLE 16 ■ ABSENCE WITHPAY
16.1	Employee assigned to a 5-2 working schedule.
An employee absent due to a death in his family dming periods when he is both scheduled and available for work, shall receive for such time lest dining the period between the death and up to and inducting five (5J days following the day of the fimeral in the case of a death covered in paragraph a) and up to and inducting three (3) days followingthe day of the fiuieral in the case of a deathcovered in paragraphs b), c) and d).
An employee on vacation also receives file foregoing for the time lost for a death as stipulated in paragraphs a), b) & c), These days will be added immediately following the vacation in progress. In the case of d) & e), one day is added immediately followingthe vacation in progress.
a five (5) day s’pay in ttecase ofthe death of an employee’s child and/or ofthe spouse i. who resided in a maritalrelationshipwith the employee.
b.	three (3) days’ pay in the case of the death of parents, brothers and sisters, grandchildren, grandparents ofthe employee and any relative residing permanently with the employee.
c.	three (3)days’pay in the case ofthe death ofthe parents, grandparents, brothers and sisters
i. ofthe spouse who resides in a marital relationshipwiththe employee.
d.	three (3)days’pay in the case ofthe death of a daughter-in-law or son-in-law who resided in
i. a marital relationship with a child of the employee.
e.	one (1) day’s pay in the event of the death of the spouse of the brother or sister of the employee or the employee’s spouse
in the case where there would he interment of the ashes of the deceased at a date later than the bereavement leave provided above, the employee can postpone one of the days of the leave to the date of the interment of the ashes.
22
16.2	Employee assignedto a 2-2-3 working schedule:
An employee absent due to a death in his family during periods when he is both scheduled and available for work, shall receive for such time lost during the period between the death and up to and including three (3) twelve (12) hour-working days following the day of the funeral in the case of a death covered in paragraph a) and up to and including two (2) twelve (12) hourworking days following the day of the funeral in the case of a death covered in paragraphs b), c) andd).
A relay employee on vacation also receives the foregoing for the time lost for a death as stipulated in paragraphs a), b) & c). These days are added immediately following the vacation in progress. In the case of d) & e), one day is added immediately following the vacation in progress.
a)	three (3) days1 pay in the case of the death of an employee’s child and/or the death of the spouse who resided in a marital relationshipwith the employee.
b)	two (2) days’ pay in the case of the death of parents, brothers and sisters, grandchildren, grandparentsoftheemployeeand any relativeresiding permanentlywiththe employee.
c)	two (2) days’ pay in the case of the death of the parents, grandparents, brothers and sisters of the spouse who resides in a marital relationshipwith the employee.
d)	two (2) days’ pay in the case of the death of a daughter-in-law or son-in-law who resided in a marital relationshipwith a child of the employee.
e)	one (1) day’s pay in the event of the death of the spouse of the brother or sister of the employee orthe employee’s spouse
In the case where there would be interment of the ashes of the deceased at a date later than the bereavement leave provided above, the employee can postpone one of the days of the leave to the date ofthe intermentofthe ashes.
16.3	The above benefits shall not be implemented dining sick leave, accident leave, or leave of absence, in the event that bereavement (as defined in Section 16.1 and 16.2 occurs dining the vacation of an employee or dining the Seasons Holiday, one day with pay will be added to his vacationperiodortothe Seasons Holiday.
16.4	On die occasion ofthe birth of his child or the adoption of a child other than a child of his spouse, the employee can obtain a leave from work up to five (5) days within the fl fteen (15) days following and including the date of birth or the day of adoption. Two (2) of these five (5) days shall be paid at the employee’sregular hourly rate, for eight (8) hours each day for employees assignedto a 5-2 working scheduleand for twelve (12) hours for employees assigned to a2-2-3 working schedule.
16.5	Effective as of January 1,199S, an employee will be entitledto one (l)day of paid absence for personal reasons, hereby called a personal day, which will be paid at prevailing rate for eight (8) hours for employees assigned to a 5-2 working schedule and for twelve (12) hours for an employee assignedto a 2-2-3 working schedule. This day is not cumulative and is non-reimbursableif not taken.
The employee must give the company advance notice of at least forty-eight(48) hours before the date he wishes to take this day, and approval be given unless reasonable argument presented. By reasonable argument is meant, for example, if a personal day given would cause interruption or serious delay of operations. This personal day cannot be taken with another paid holiday except during the Seasons Holiday.
23
ARTICLE 17 -VACATIONS
17.1	Employees who have the required seniority and active employment requirements listed below are granted a vacation and receive vacation pay as follows:
Plant Seniority Requirement	Active Employment Requirement	Length of Vacation	Computation of Vacation Pay
1 year	26 pay chequesin any 52 consecutive weeks measured from any point in the current calendar year	2 weeks	4% of wages earned in the previous calendar year tending December 31st
3 years	" " ..	3 weeks	6% " "
1O years			4 weeks	8% " "
20 years	II II M	5 weeks	10%" ”
25 years	fl II II	6 weeks	12%" "
Note 1: An employee who meets the active employment requirement receives vacation pay based on the applicable percentage of earnings of the previous calendaryear, but such payment shall not be less than the regular work week of forty (40) hours, or the relay worker's regular schedule of prodLEticn at the employee's regular rate including his shift premium and three tenths (.3), meaning fifty hours and seventy-five tenths (50.75). The relay worker's vacation pays are separatedequaily by the n u m b of weeks he is admissible. Whether a vacation week is equal to twelve (12) days or whether it is equal to seven (7) days, it wEL have the same remuneration. Furthermore, for the relay workers, the vacation week will start and end st 7:00 am. on Monday. The employee receives his vacation cheque on his regular payday preceding his vacation, except for vacation outside the shutdown unless a request has been made at least fourteen (14) calendardays in advance.
Note 2: In cases or absences due to sickness and nonoccupational accidents duly recognized by the Sick Benefit Plan or within the initial eighteen (18) month period c£Long Term Disability, or duly certified by a physician, or twenty-four (24) months in the case of an accident duly recognized by the CSST, the Company computes a regular normal work week in lieu of each week lost under the above mentioned instances for the purpose of calculatingvacation pay.
An employee who has not used all of the vacation to which he is entitled at the end of the current calendar year as a result of illness, an industrial accident or a non-industrial accident can defer two (2) weeks of unused vacation to the following calendar year, which applies to the first year only, including the week provided for in Article 17.4b).
24
ARTICLE 17 -VACATIONS (cont'd)
Note 3: Receipt of Sick Benefit, the initial eighteen (18) months of LTD benefits, andtwenty-four (24) months of Workmen's Compensation payments is considered to be the equivalent of pay cheques in fulfilling the active employment requirement, providing that the employee has worked during the calendaryear.
Note 4: In the case of an employee who has received sick leave benefits or extended disability payments for a period in excess of the initial eighteen (18) month period and twenty-four (24) months in the case of benefits from the Commission de la Sante et de la Securite au travail returns to work, an employee who has not satisfied the active employment criteria, as stipulated in Article 17.1, the percentage (%) for the purposes of calculating vacation pay is calculatedon the earnings of the year preceding the return and the duration of vacation is determined by dividing the vacation amount calculated in this manner by the normal weekly salary.
17.2	An employee who fails to meet the active employment requirement receives the applicable percentage of earnings of the previous calendar year. Shouldthe employee not wish to take his vacation entitlement, the entitlement will be the subject of a mutual agreement between the Union President and the Industrial RelationsManager, inasmuch as the law permits it.
17.3	The occurrence of a paid holiday(s) dining an employee's vacation, assigned to the 5-2 schedule or a relay employee, will add a day(s) to the vacation period, Such day(s) will be considered for all purposes as a holiday(s) and such time off may be granted, in keeping with production needs and onlywhenthe employeeworks a $-2 scheduleas follows: namely at the beginning or the end of the vacationperiod, or at any time following this vacation within the calendar year in which the vacation is taken. The number of hours paid corresponds to the schedule to which the employeewas assigned on the statutory holiday.
Permission to take this (these) day(s) when the employee works a 5-2 schedule does not apply to the employee assigned to a 2-2-3 scheduleyear round or to the employee assigned to the 2-2-3 schedule from the vacation period in question to the end of the year. In these cases, the companymust grant the employeethis (these) day(s) on his 2-2-3 schedule.
25
ARTICLE 17 - VACATIONStyont'd)
17.4	a) The Company shall publish a vacation calendar on April 1 of each year and employees
will make their vacation preferences known based on availabilities within each department at the latest on April 15 for the period of May 1 to October 31. The Company agrees to confirm the dates of the summer vacations to the employees WLtfrin30 days following the publication of the calendar. The calendar is designed to allow each employee to take his vacation entitlement up to three (3) consecutive weeks during the period between June 1 and Sunday preceding Idxwr Day.
On October 1, a second vacation calendar shall be published to cover the period of November 1, to April 30 of the following year. Employees will make their preferences known based on availability's within each department at the latest on October 15, and the Company shall confirm the dates to tie employees within 30 days following the publication of the calendar.
b) Vacations may not be postponed from one year to another and made cumulative. However an employee entitled to three (3) weeks of vacation or more may postpone one (1) week of his vacation entitlement to the next calendaryear.
17.5	On termination of an employee's service with the Company, he shall be entitledto the following:
a)	If he has not taken the vacation to which he was entitled, he shall receive vacation pay based on his years of plant seniority and shall in addition be paid the percentage of his wages earned, based on his years of plant seniority, in accordance with the provisions of this Article, to the date of tenninatim of his employment.
b)	If he has takenhis vacation, he shall be paid the percentage of his wages earned, based on his years of plant seniority, in accordance with the provisions of this Article, to the date of termination of his employment.
26
ARTICLE 18- NORMAL WORKING HOURS,OVERTIME
AND WORKING SCHEDULES (5-2 & 2-2-3)
18.1	The normal work day is eight (8) hours and the forty (40) horn- work week consists of five (5) consecutive work days (Monday to Friday, inclusive)for all 5-2 employees.
Ail employees working on continuous operations (relay workers) are assigned to a 2-2-3 production schedule. The work day is 12 hours and corresponds to the day on which the normal work shift starts. For example, the work shift starting at 7: 00 p,m, on Saturday and ending at 7:00 am on Sunday corresponds to Saturday.
The company may create continuous operations only in the event that the production volume exceeds the three (3) work drifts on a regular basis.
All of the employees must have a minimum break of eight (8) hours for each twenty-four (24) hourperiod. The 24-hour period starts at the beginning of their work schedule.
On an exceptional basis, an employee may work more than four (4) hours overtime in addition to his work schedule-,
18.2	Applicable rules for entering and exiting a 2-2-3 working schedule.
Change In a department operation o r an individual from a 2-1-3 productionscheduleto a basic 5-2
scheduleand vice-versa
18.2.1	An employee ends his basic 5-2 work schedule on Friday and starts the 2-2-3 schedule on Mondayat7:00am.
An employeeends bis 2-2-3 production schedule during the transition period that ends at 7:00 a.m. on Saturday.
18.2.2	During these transitionwo^cs (start and end of the 2-2-3 schedule), the employeeis entitled to at least forty (40) paid hours. Thesshoursarecalculatedwithin the normal woric schedule.
18.23 If the employee does not receive the equivalent,^ straighttime, of forty (40) hours of pay in keeping with the 2-2-3 schedule during these transition vedcs, he shall be paid the difference in hours at-straighf time.
27
ARTICLE 18- NORMAL WORKING HOURS, OVERTIME
AND WORKING SCHEDULES(5-2 Sc 2-2-3)
18.2
Example (2-2-3 to 5-2)
		—	t	s—	is—	M	—	w	—	F	
7:UUam- 19:00	1	1	3	3	3	2	2	4	4	1
19:00- 7:00	2	2	4	4	4	1	1	3	3	2
Day Off 3-4---3=4---1=2---1=2---1=2--3=4---3=4---1=2---1=2---3=T
Example (5-2 to 2-2-3)						
M 1 W 1		S		M T	W	1
7iUU=----1------1-----3-----3------2-----2-----2------4-----4------1-----T
19:00
19:00- 2 7:00			4	1 I	1	3	3 2 2
Uay Ufl 3-4	3-4	1-2	1-2	3-4 3-4 3-4 1-3 1-/ 3-4 3-4
18,3a) All hours worked in excess of the normal shift schedule, or outside the basic daily shift
schedule, or a day the employee is not normally assignedto work shall be considered overtime.
b) i. Employee assignedto a 5-2 schedule.
Si hours worked in excess of eight (8) hours per day, or outside the basic daily shift schedule, or on a Saturday are paid at the xzte of one and cate-half (1 1/2) the regular rate. Hours worked in excess oftwelve (12) consecutivehours shall be paid at double rate.
ii. Employees assignedto a 2-2-3 schedule
Ail hours worked outside the basic daily shift or on the first day off are paid at the rate of one and one-haifthe regular rate. Hus worked in excess of twelve hours or on the second day off wil be paid at double rate. When overtimeis worked on a day off that is a Saturday or a Sunday, these hours are pad at double rate and one-half (2-1/2).
18.4	The schedules of hours, establishedby the HurranResources Manager at the time of signing this Agreement, setting forth the basic daily shift schedules of hours for every department, orforjob groups within a department, and indicating the normal times of work to begin and end, shall be given to the Ihdm, its officers and stewards. A copy of these schedules of hours shall be posted at the time-clocks and copies shall also be made available to all employees.
28
ARTICLE 18-NORMAL VORK AND \ ORKJNG
10URS, OVERTIME
IHEDULES (5-2 & 2-2-3) (cont'd)
18.5	Notice of changes to the schedules of hours referred to in Section 18,4 above, but excluding reference to modifications mentioned in Sections 18.6 and 18.7 below, and subject to the provisions of these sections, shall be given by the Industrial Relations Manager or in bis absence by his superior to the Union President, not later than ten (10) work days prior to such changes, if an employee affected by such change is not given ten (10) work days'notice in accordancewith the foregoing, he wi 11 be paid time and one-half (1/4) his regular rate for the next ten (10) regular work days that he works, except when these changes have been made as a result of an emergency.
18.6	If an employee is instructed to report later than the noncial scheduled starting time for his job, time and one-half (1'A) his regular rate will apply after his normal scheduledquittdng time. The Company similarly agrees to pay an employee time and one-haif (114) his regular rate for ail hours worked before the normal scheduledstarting time for his job. This provision shall only apply for a maximum period of one (1) work week (or in the case of a relay worker, his regular production schedule of work), and any consecutive period longer than one (1) work week shall be interpretedto be a change in basic schedule and the premium provided in Section 18.5 shall be applied.
If after an employee's basic work week, (or in the case of a relay worker his regular production schedule of work), has begun, he is instructed to work on anotherjob, the basic daily schedule of hours for which is different than on which he startedbut which modificationdoes not represent a change of shift as established and referred to in Section 18.4 above, he shall be paid at the rate of time and one-half (114) his regular rate for all hours worked outside of his initial schedule in that workweek, (or production schedule), blit only for the first day any suchmodificationis made.
This shall also apply for subsequent modifications within the same work week, (or production schedule).
18.7	If after any employee's basic work week, (or in the case of a relay worker his regular production schedule of work), has begun, he is instructed to work onajob, the basic daily schedule of hours for which is different than on which he started, and which represents a change of shift as established in the schedules referred to in Section 18.4 above, he shall be paid at the rate of time and one-half (1 !4) his regular rate for all hours worked for the balance of his basic work week, or his regular production schedule of work.
18.8	The provisions of Sections 18.6 and 18.7 shall not apply when an employee is offered overtime in accordancewith the Memorandum of interpretation relative to Distribution of Overtime, and his acceptance of the overtime work requires him to work on a different basic schedule or shift.
29
ARTICLE 18 - N ORMAL WORKING HOURS,OVERTIME ____________AND WORKING SCHEDULES (5-2 & 2-2-3)(cont'd)
18.9	Distribution of overtime shall be made in accordance with the Memorandum of Interpretation exchanged between the Company and the Union.
The response of employees requested to work overtime will be on a voluntary basis.
Relay workers which have working days of twelve and three tenths hours (12.3) represent an exception to the above. It is necessary that these employees complete their daily schedule.
Exceptions are also made for all relay workers whose regular production schedule of work requires them to work on Saturdayand Sunday.
18.10	Any hours paid on the basis under ibis Agreement shall not be counted again for any other purpose.
ARTICLE 19 • MINIMUM RECOMPENSE
19.1	Providing that an employee in the bargaining unit (including an employee on probation) is in the employ of the Company, and is scheduled, available and report to work, the Company shall provide him. with work to the extent of his weekly hours on the following basis:
1)	Employees, excluding relay workers, shall be provided with work, or pay in lieu of work, for not less than their basic daily and weekly schedule of hours as defined in Article 18, Section 18.1
2)	Employeeswho are relay workers shallbeprovidedwith work, orpay in lieu of work, for not less than their daily and weekly production schedule of hours as defined in Article 18, Section 18.1
The foregoing provisions shall be governed by the following conditions:
a)	The Company shall adjust the work force within a department in proportion to the work available or expected. To provide employees with work, the Company shall be free to distribute work within departments and to transfer employeesof one departmentto another based on group seniority.
b)	The Company expects and the Union agrees that employees will conscientiously perform whatever tasks may be assigned to them, if any employee declines to perform the task assigned to him, the Company shall be absolved of its responsibility to provide work to that employee for such horns so lost by him.
30
ARTICLE 19 -MNIMUMRECOMPENSE (cont'd)
19.1	c) Any employee who is tardy or absent from work on any day or part of a day that he is scheduledor instructed to work shall have reduced, by the time so lost, the weekly hours of woik with which the Company will provide him.
d)	An employee who is employed after the beginning of the calendar week, shall be provided with work for not less than the basic daily schedule as defined in Article 18, Section 18.1, for the remainingwork days in that calendar week.
Exceptions shall be made for relay workers whereby their regular production schedule of work shall apply instead of the calendar week.
e)	The horns of work for paid plant holidays referred to in Article 7 shall not be computed under the provisions of Sections 1 or 2 of this Article. Hiring calendar weeks in which paid holidays occur, the Company shall provide work on the basis of the basic working days scheduledfor the remainderof such calendar week.
Exceptions shall be made for relay workers whereby their regular production schedule of work shall apply instead of the calendar week.
f)	Employees who have been given notice of lay-off in accordance with Article 24 shall be provided with work in accordance with the provisions of this Article subject to the following:
Employees whose lay-off notice expires in a week subsequent to the calendar week in which the notice was given shall he provided with work in accordance with the provisions of this Article, or pay in lieu of work for the number of days of notice remaining.
g)	The provisions of this Article shall not apply to employees discharged for just cause, suspended, retiring or voluntarily leaving the service of the Company, or in the event of closing ofthe Plant or part of the Plant due to an emergency.
19.2	An employee called in to work from off the premises for an emergency at times other than his regular scheduledhours shall receive his normal rate for the hours so worked cr a ndndirun of four (4) hours, whichever is the greater, and shall be through when the emergency is over. In the event the emergencyis not over at the time the employee's regular schedule begins, the foregoing shall apply up to his regular scheduled starting time, then the employee shall be paid his regular
rate as of his regular scheduled starting time. Such emergency call-in shall not he construed as
an early start. tins worked during an emergency will not be recorded as overtime.
31
ARTICLE 19 - MINIMUM RECOMPENSE (cont'd)
19.3	An employee who, at the request of the Company, works overtime on calendar Saturdaysand/or Sundays andor Paid Plant Holidays and/or scheduled days off wEL be paid for the number of hours offered by his immediate supervisor with the number of hours offered by his immediate supervisor with not less than four (4) hours at the applicable rate of pay. The Company shall be absolved of the above guarantee if this is due to tardiness on the pari ofthe employee.
19.4	Employees, excluding employees on probation, who are permanently laid off due to such causes as transfer or discontinuance of the manufacture of a product, introduction of new equipment or processes, closing of the Plant or part of the Plant, or other causes which, insofar as the Company can determine, permanently reduce the work force, are entitled to a Termination Allowance, in accordancewith the following provisions:
Note 1: For the purposes of this Article, a permanent lay-off is understood to be a lay-off which is expected to last continuouslyfor a period ofatleastone(l)year.
Note 2: The termination allowance is also offered to the employees who, at the time of the offer, are receiving short-term disability allowances if they can provide, within the time frame specified in the offer, a medical certificate confirming that they will return to work within thirty (30) calendar days following the offer or at the latest by the deadline for accepting the offer if this exceeds thirty (30) days.
-])	The Company will advise the Union as soon as possible in advance if a permanent lay-off
with Termination Allowance, as provided in this Article, is to take place.
2) Employees who are permanently laid off and who are eligible for Termination Allowance shall be paid in accordancewith the following:
a)	When the number of weeks of an employee's Termination Allowance is equal to or less than the number of weeks remaining in the calendaryear, payment in full is made on date of termination,
b) WTienthe number ofweeks of TeiminationAllowance exceeds the number of weeks remaining in the calendaryear, two payments are made:
First Payment: On date of Termination - Average weekly earnings for the rnmiber of weeks remaining in the calendar year.
Second Payment During first month of the following calsxfer year - Balance of Termination Allowance.
Should an employee die before the second payment is made, it shall be paid to his Estate.
32
ARTICLE 19 - MINIMUM RECOMPENSE (cont’d)
3)	Termination allowance payment is based on the number of complete years of plant seniority accumulated by the employee up to his termination date, and is calculated as follows:
One (1) week's earnings for each completed year of plant seniority service to a maximum of fifty-two (52) weeks' pay for an employee with less than twenty-five (25) years of plant seniority.
One and one-half (1 %) week's earning for each completed year of plant seniority to a maximum of fifty-two (52) weeks' pay for an employee with twenty-five (25) or more years of plant seniority.
One week's earnings for purposes of this article are based upon an employee's average weekly earnings received during the latest fifty-two (52) weeks in which he worked one (1) horn-ormore dividedby fifty-two (52). Any week in which an employee did not work one (1) hour or more is not to be consideredapart of the fifty-two (52) weeks.
Average weekly earnings are ai employee's regular base wages, including shift premiums but exclusive of compensation for overtime or other premiums provided for by this Agreement.
4)	A terminated employeere-employed within one (1) year from the date of termination, has tiie option of returning the Termination Allowance paid by the Company and receiving the credit of his years of plant seniority, or, retaining the Allowance and starting as a probationary employee. Reimbursementmay be made in instalments.
If re-employment occurs after one (1) year, the employee will be considered as newly hired and shall have no rights other than those extended to probationary employees under this Agreement.
5j	Employees who are permanently laid off may elect to remain on the Plant seniority listfor
possible recall, in such cases, the Company will hold the Termination Allowance payment for maximum of twelve (12) months, during which time the employee may request payment with a completebreak in service.
6)	The number of weeks' Termination Allowance will not exceed the number of weeks remaining to the employees' normal retirement date.
33
ARTICLE 19 - MINIMUM RECOMPENSE (cont’d)
19.4	7) Termination Allowance isnot paid:
a)	To an employee discharge forjust cause;
b)	To an employee who voluntarily resigns from the Company's employ;
c)	in the event of closing the Plant or part of the Plant due to Acts of God, or in times of public pec^ war, disaster, or any other reason of similar nature.
ARTICLE20- BENEFITS
20.1	All eligible employees are entitled, subject to conditions therein, to benefit from the various plans such as supplementary health insurance, dental insurance, life insurance, accidental death and dismemberment insurance, short term and long term disability and group pension plan established and occasionally amended by the Company.
in the case where Kraft Canada Inc, should modify one or more of these plans for ail Canadian employees, whether unionized or non-unionized, such as the supplementary health insurance, dental insurance, life insurance, accidental death and dismemberment insurance and long term disability insurance, the Company is committed to offer to the unionized employees at LaSalle plant the same amended plans offeredto non-unionized employees of Kraft Canada Inc. and this, for tiie duration of this collective agreement. Those amended plans would become effective only with the consentof the Union in consultation with their members.
In case of acceptation of these modified plans, they will have to be accepted by the Union and the employees as presented by the Company, in case of refusal, the actual plans will remain the same until the expiry date of the collective agreement.
ARTICLE 21 • WAGES AND JOB RATE RULES
21.1	A new employee shall be paid the base rate as indicated in Appendix "A" • "Hourly Wage Rates", unless he is assigned to a higher ratedjob in which case he shall be paid the regular rate of thejob.
The term "Regular Rate" wherever used in this Agreement shall be meant to include the shift premium, if any. The term "PrevailingRate" wherever used in this Agreement shall be meant to be the applicable rate the employee shall be paid under the provisions of this Agreement.
21.2	A successful applicant who has been assigned to ajob as a result of job posting shall receive the regularrate of thejob as soon as he starts bis trial period
34
ARTICLE 21 - WAGES AND JOB RATE RULES (cont’d)
21.3	When an employee is requested by the Company to temporarily transfer to a higher ratedjob, he shall be paid die regular rate for thatjob while he is carrying out his assignment.
When an employee is transferred from a higher ratedjob which he was filling on a temporary basis to a lower rated job because the Company could not find suitable replacement, the employee shall keep the rate for such higher ratedjob for as long as the situation exists, at which time shallrevert back to his regular assignment and be paid accordingly.
(Referto Article23, Section23.6b), forprocedure coveringtemporary assignments).
21.4	When the Company requires an employeeto temporarily transfer to alowerratedjob, he shall carry the rate ofthejob whichhe would normally be performing whilehe is carrying out his assignment, but may be transferredback to his regularjob if a suitablereplacementis obtained. Such temporary transfers will be limited to tfirty(30) work days.
(Referto Article 23, Section 23.6b), forprocedure coveringtemporary assignments).
21.5	When an employeerequests a transfer to a lower ratedjob, he shall immediately be paid the rate of the job. Such adjustment in rate does not remove the necessity for fulfilling the triai period requirement.
21.6	When, at the Company’s request, an employee works eight (8) or more hours during a week on a higher ratedjob, he shall be paid the higher rate for all hours worked by him during that week, except in the ease of Appendix A, note 1.
21.7	When an employee is scheduled to work on a higher ratedjob and his schedule is changed later than 10:00 am. Friday preceding the beginning of the week, and such change requires him to work on a lower ratedjob, he shall be paid the higher rate as set up by the schedule.
21.8	In the event that an employee works four (4) or more hours at a higher rate during his regular work day immediately preceding or following a paid plant holiday within the work week in which the holiday occurs, he is paid the higher rate for the holiday except in the case of Appendix A, note 1.
21.9	Duringthe development stages of new operations, the Company may assign employees excluded from this Agreement to work onthejobs in these new operations as set forth in Article 2, Section 2,2, but said employees shall not be maintained when these jobs operate normally. It is understood that the incurabent(s) will be assigned to the job(s) no later than the start of actual production.
Similarly,the foregoing shall apply to new jobs in existing operations.
35
ARUCLE21 - WAGES AND JCBRAERULES(confd)
21,10	The Company, the Union or the incumbent may request a job description revision when modifications have been made to ajob description. The revision process to follow is described in APPENDIX "C”
Once the final approvalhas been obtained, in accordance with the process, it is up to the Union President and the Human Resource Manager to determine the pertinence to submit the revised job descriptionto an external evaluationfirm for revaluation.
Following the reevaluation, if the j ob rate of the position is higher than the rate the incumbent had before the reevaluation, the rate will be paid retroactively from the date of the request of revisionsubmittedto the Hirnian Resource department. If the rate of the job is lower thanthe rate the incumbent had before the reevaluation, the incumbent will retain that rate for the duration of the job, that existedpriorto the reevaluation ofthejob or util thejob rate reaches it's rate.
21.11	In the event of the creation of a new job by the Company, Human Resources, in collaboration with the supervisor, the delegate and the employees concerned, will write-up a new job description
Once the final approval has been obtained in accordance with the process, the new job description will be submitted for evaluationby an external evaluation firm,
When thejob class has been determined the job is then submitted for the posting procedure in conformancewith the present Collective Agreement.
21.12	in the case of an emergency the Company may post ajob with a temporary classification and rate. The process established in paragraph 21.10 and 21,11 will then apply, following the evaluationby the external firm, thejob class and the hourly rate will be established permanently and will be retroactiveto the date thejob was filed, if the permanent hourly rate is higher than the temporary established rate, the incumbent vmII receive retroactive pay to the date of hisjob assignment. If the rate is lower, the applicant may return to thejob he previously occupied.
21.13	Settlement of grievances pertaining to job rates which originate from the application of the Sections 21,10, 21.11 and 21,12, shall be retroactive to the date that it was submitted to the Human Resource department, in such cases, the grievances are to be submitted in writing at the third step of the grievance procedure, within thirty (30) days following the obtained final approval, as per the process.
21.14	When ajob disappears, namely when the position is no longer included in the list of regular positions provided in Appendix A, because of technological improvements or changes, changes of production methods or processes, transfer of process of operations to another plant of Kraft Canada Inc., discontinuance of products, or because of business fluctuations, the regular incumbent of such job will keep the regular rate of thejob from which he is transferred fa* a period of one (1) year unless he is transferred to a higher rated job, subject to the following conditions:
36
ARTICLE 21 • WAGES AND JOB RATE RULES (conCd)
a)	The incumbent of a new permanent job, obtained by bid, will have the opportunity to return to his previous job should it become reinstated. However, the Company will assign an employee who is not an incumbent of a permanent job to his previous job should it become reinstated.
b)	The conditionsrelative to protection of rates shallnot apply onjobs created by the advent of a new product until such product is in national distribution.
21.15	in all situations ether than those covered by the above Job Rate Rules, the employee shall be paid the rate of the job to which he is assigned.
21.16	The Company shall give the Union a notice of three (3) weeks prior to the abolition, the transfer of functions within onejob to another and/or the combination of jobs.
The purpose of this notice is to inform the Union and then to develop the best approaches for the implementation of these changes. If there is disagreement between the parties on the approaches for the implementation of these changes, this disagreement will be subject to the grievanceprocedure.
21.17	The relay workers receive a bonus at their hourly rate of two (2) dollars per hour at straight time for each day worked that starts on Saturdays, Sundays and statutory holidays. This bonus does not apply to overtime hours. These days worked correspondto the day on which the normalwork shift starts.
ARTICLE 22 - SHIFT PREMIUMS
22,1	Shift premiums shall be paid as follows:
A.	Shifts which statno earlier than 6:30 a.m.nor laterthan 9:00 am. shall be day shiftsand shall not carry any shift premium, the whole in accordance with the basic daily shift schedules as established under Article 18, Sections 18,4 and 18,5, or as otherwise mutually agreed upon.
B.	Shifts which start after 9:00 a.m., but no laterthan 5:00 p.m. shall be afternoon shifts and shall carry a shift premium of fifty cents ($.50) per hour.
C.	Shifts whichstartafter5;00 p.m. or before 6:30 am, shallbe night shifts and shall carry a shift premium of fifty cents ($.50) per hour.
D.	Employees who start their shift between 6:00 am. and 6:30 a.m., at their request, will be paid the regular rate and are not eligibleto the shift premium.
E.	Employees who presently start their shift at 6:30 a.m. at the request of the employer will maintain the shift premium for as long as they remain on thatjob.
F.	An employee assigned to continuous operations 2-2-3 (relay worker) is entitled to the shift premium between 3:00 p.m, and 7:00 a.m.
37
ARTICLE 22 ■ SHEETPREMIUMS (confd)
22.2	An employee who works overtime during the following shifts shall receive the shift premium only if such overtime hours fall within 22,1 b), ore).
22.3	The shift premium mentioned in Section 22,1 b) and c) shall always form part of the employee’sregular raiesfor all the time worked during these shifts.
ARTICLE 23 - SENIORITY
23.1 There are two (2) types of seniority, plant seniority and group seniority.
a) Plant Seniority is defined as the length of an employee’s continued service vzii±i the
Company within the bargaining unit, calculated as the elapsed time from
the date he
was first employed, unless his seniority was interrupted,, as defined in Article 23, Section23.3, in which event such calculation shall be from the date he was returned to work following the last break in bis seniority.
b)	Group seniority is defined as the continued length of sendee of an employee within a given group.
c)	The three (3) groups of seniority are:
i)	Group A ■	Ail employees with the exception of trades employees, and
laboratory technicians
ii)	Group B -	Ail trades employees
iii)	Group C -	Ail laboratory technicians
Jobs held by employees of the different groups mentioned above are also identified as jobs of Group A, B, or C.
d)	When the word “Seniority” is used by itself in the Collective Agreement, it signifies both plant seniorityand group seniority.
e)	Employeeswill be laid-olTand recalled in group seniority order, subject to the appropriaterules ofthe CollectiveAgreement.
38
ARTICLE 23 - SENIORITY (confd)
23.2	a) The probationary period for a new employee shall be four hundred and eighty (480) hours worked in any twelve (12) month period. As a pari of the Company's normal selection process, the Company will assess the suitability, job performance and general work attitudes of an employee on probation. The Company will discharge such employee, if he fails to meet the above selection criteria On completion of the above sendee requirements, he shall then acquire seniority status dating back to the first (1) day of the four hundred and eighty (480) hours period. However, in specific cases the period of four hundred and eighty (480) hours worked mentioned above can be extended to a maximum of seven hundred and twenty (720) hours worked ty mutual agreement.
b)	In order to allow a probationary employee hired in seniority group "A" and "C" to be properly evaluated and adequately trained, the company can temporarily assign him. to any job without having to follow the job posting procedure as long as he is accompanied by the employee who holds the job during such an assignment.
c)	A draw will be held for the new employees hired on the same date to determine the order of priority for each, with respect to applying the collectiveagreement.
23.3	Terminationof employmentand loss of seniority rights shall result from any of the following:
1.	Discharge forjust cause or termination of employment.
2.	Voluntary resignation ofthe employee.
3.	Retirement in accordance with the Company'sretirement policy.
4.	Failure to notify the Company of intention to return to work following a lay-off, within forty-eight (48) hours after receiving notice by registered mail or telegram to return to work.
5.	Ekilure to return to work within two (2) weeks from the date of original notice to do so, sent to the last addressas shown by Companyrecords.
Note:
The Company to mail a form which the employee returns informingthe Company as to the date he reports to work
6.	Continuous absence for three (3) days without permission of the Company or without good and proper reason or reasons beyond his ccntrdL.
7.	Continuous lay-off for a period exceeding twenty-four (24) months.
39
ARTICLE23 - SENIORITY (cont’d)
Subject to the provisions of the respective benefit plans, participation in such plans terminates at the end of one (1) year from the date of lay-off,
in the event that the Company recalls anemployeeffom lay-off who has at least three (3) years of group seniority, the employee may decline the recall to our employ, in such cases, the Company is not required to recall him for future openings util the employee informs the Company that he is again available for recall. (Refer to Article 23, Section23.10 relative to declining recall to his regular job). It is understood that such an employee may not be on such voluntary lay-offfor longer than six (6) consecutive months without breaking has seniority.
An employee who possesses less than three (3) years of group seniority and recalled to work from lay-offfor aperiod of four (4) weeks or less can make arrangements with the Company to retain his recall rights even if refusing to return to work for such reasons as illness, accident, other employment for a longer period oftime or other serious reasons.
23.4	Reduction ofpersonnelisdoneaccordmgiogroupseniority
a)	Reduction of Plant Work Force:
The order of lay-off of each group seniority shall be:
Firstly:	Employees on probation as determined by the Company.
Seamy:	Employeesby group senioritydates.
The Company is permitted to keep an experiencedemployeeregardless of his seniority on the job for the purpose of training the applicant duringthe posting period as well as during thejob acceptance period as underlined in Appendix “A”.
b)	increase in Plant Work Force:
The order of recall of each group seniority shall be:
Firstly:	Employeesby group seniority&te
Secondly:	Employees on probation as determined by the Company
An employee shall have recall rights up to two (2) years from the date of his last lay-off.
Although employees on probation have not acquired seniority status as defined in Article 23, Section 23,2, consideration shall be given to their length of sendee at the time of recall.
40
ARTICLE 23 - SENIORITY (cont’d)
23,5	Seasonal Employee
The seasonal employee is hired on a temporary basis during the summerperiod between June 1 st and the Sunday preceding Labour Day eachyear. Any period before June 1 st will serve for training purposes only. However, a new seasonal employee may be trained after June 1st, according to the needs ofthe operations.
The seasonal employee is hired to replace regular permanent employees during annual vacations, according to article 17. The number of seasonal employees is equivalent to the number of vacations to replace by job posting. Seasonal employees' assignment shall not contravenethe job posting procedure.
To be eligible for employment, the "seasonal candidate" must possess a Secondary V diploma. The seasonal employees will be hired though a draw which xdH determine the order of the starting date according to their availability, The priority will first be given to the regular employees' children.)
The seasonal employee is not eligible to the followingconditions:
•	accumulationof seniority;
•	recall privilege;
•	job postingprocedures;
•	companybenefits; minimumrecompense.
Each year in February, the Company wi 11 post a note inviting the regular employees' children to submittheir employment application for the following summerperiod.
23,6	Filling Job Vacancies:
a)	Of more than thirty (30) working days (regularjob)
1.	All regularjob vacancies for a period of thirty (30) working days or more which need to be filled first by the regular incumbents of the same group seniority as the posted job. A limit of three postings applies only if the employee accepts the position or if be opts for an acceptance period as provided in Appendix A. After three refusals during the same acceptance period or acceptance ofthe position, the employee cannot apply for the remainder of the calendaryear.
2.	Aptitude, ability and group seniority shall be the determining factors. Group seniority shall be tiie governing factor when aptitude and ability are considered by the Company to be sufficient, subjectto the Grievance Procedure. If the position cannot be filled in keeping with 23.6a) 7 & 8, and no employee in the group applies, the position may be filled by an employee from another group who applies.
41
ARTICLE 23 - SENIORITY (cont’d)
23.6	Filling Job Vacancies
a)	Of more than thirty (30) working days (regular job) (cont’d)
3.	For the purpose of applicationof Article 23,6 a), a laboratory technician must as well possess the necessary qualifications to be trained to perform the work within a reasonable period of time not exceeding thirty (30)workdays. Management will determine the successful applicants. This decisionmay be the subjectofagrievance,
4.	in all such cases mentioned above, the Company shall post the openings on a plant-wide basis wiihinfive (5) working days from date of occurrence, on a notice board The openings shall be posted for three (3) working days. The Company shall fill any vacant positions within the fifteen (15) working days following the last day of posting. The period of fifteen (15) working days can be extended by mutual agreement. This paragraph shall not be applied dming the period of June 1, to Labour Day of eachyear. Jobs which become vacant dining this period shall be posted as soon as possible in September.
5.	Vacant jobs are posted starting every Thursday morning until the following Tuesday morning, An employee who has bid on ajob, may svithdraw his bid exclusively dining the posting period previously mentioned.
6.	Thejob posting bulletin wEL shew posting date and the closing date of the posting, the pertinent seniority group, thejob classification, the rate of pay, whether shift work and, shift work if applicable. An employee who applies for a posted position will submit a written applications later than the last day of posting. The name of the successful applicant will be posted in the Plant promptly but not later than three (3) days after the closing date of the posting.
7.	in the event that no candidates, whose name appeared on the posting, accepts the vacantjob, the candidate With the least group seniority at the time thejob is to be filled, is then considered as being the regular incumbent of the said vacantjob. The employee who becomes the regular incumbent cannot bid on the first posting of his previousjob. The trial period as mentioned in Appendix A, during which the employee is free to return to his femerjob, does not apply in this case.
8.	At the time of a job posting for a regular job vacancy, should no employee submit a bid by means of thejob posting, the employee With the least group seniority in the plant and who does not hold any regular job, then becomes the regular incumbent of the saidjob.
9.	when an employee becomes the incumbent of a regular job by means of thejob posting, his name is then automatically removed from all other existing job postings unless notified otherwise by the employee.
10.	Furthermore, according to the needs of operations, the Company posts regular jobs of replacement for each department inorderto fill thejobsthat are vacant temporarily for the said department.
42
ARTICLE 23 - SENIORITY (cont’d)
11.	The primary responsibilities for those regularjobs of replacement are to replace the employees that are absent temporarily and must not, in any event, be used in a manner that would infringe the rights of any other employee.
12.	The temporaryvacantjobs to be filled will be forthe followingreasons:
a)	vacation
b)	accidentor illness
c)	leave of absence
d)	duringthe posting of a vacant regularjob
e)	all other temporary absence
13.	The thirty (30) working days trial period mentioned in Section 23,8 may be extended by mutual agreement.
23,6	b) Of thirty (30) working days of less (temporaryjob)
1)	The Company fills alljob vacancies of thirty (30) working days or less within seniority group " A with employees without a regular job or employees whosejob will not be in operation the following week, called the Pool Group, providing such employees are qualified.
In making such temporary assignments, the company will take into consideration the group seniority of employees involved. Since such openings are of short duration, and training time is limited, it w i 11 be necessary from time to time to assign an employee of lesser group seniority to fill the opening.
2)	Ali employees whose regularjobs are down may apply for a temporary opening of duration equal or shorter than the period of time during which their regularjobs will be down as long as they are qualified. These employees will be considered along with the employeeswho are not regularjob incumbents and who are part of the Pool Group.
3)	All unfilled temporary openings will be posted each week no later than 5:00 p.m, Tuesday. Postings will remain on the board util 1:00 p.m, Wednesday.
43
ARTICLE 23 - SENIORITY (confid)
23.6	b) Of thirty(30) working days of less (temporaiyjob) (cont’d)
4)	in the event that new temporary openings are created after 5:00 p.m, Tuesday, as a result of Company action, the revisedposing will take place no later than 5:00 p.m. Thursday and remain on the lad until 1:00 p.m. ofthe following day.
5)	Employees in the Pool Group and whose regular job is down the following week can apply for such temporary openings and the temporary openings wEL be allocated by group seniorityto qualified employees who apply.
6)	Temporary openings not filled under 5) above will be filled ty assignment with employees remaining in the Pool Grouporthose whose regularjob is down the following week.
These assignments are considered equivalent to a request for temporary jobs in conformity with the provisions of paragraph 5).
7)	Employees filling temporary openings under 5) and 6) above will fill the opening for as long as the SLtiHhiaiexists, i.e. up to thirty (30) work days.
8)	Notwithstanding 7 Jabove, an employee who has been allocated a temporary) ob under 5) abovemay apply in the followingweeks for an available higher ratedjob.
gj in the event that temporary jobs are not filled under 5) and 6) above by qualified employees, a qualified employeewith less group seniority and on a protected rate may be assigned to such opening.
10)	The above thirty (30) work days may be extended by mutual agreement, in such event, temporary openings filled under 6) above, will be re-posted each week for as long as the situation exists.
23.6	c) Training and/or specificprojects (temporaryjob of more than thirty (30) days)
1)	When the Company introduces a special project (technical development, training, continuous improvement, etc.) to be assigned to an employee, the Company creates a temporaryjob to be filled according to the followingprocedures.
2)	Before posting thejob, the Company and the Unionjointly evaluate the responsibilities ofthejob in orderto define the selection criteria and the objectives.
3)	The Company and the Unionjointly agree on the scope of these jobs (department or plant) and on the duration of these assignments. These elements will be indicated on the job postingas a best estimate.
44
ARTICLE 23 - SENIORITY (cont’d)
23.6	c) Training and/or specificprojects (temporary job of more than thirty (30) days) (confd)
4)	This procedure wEL be applicable to each group seniority and an employees keeps his permanentjob while assignedto this temporaiyjob.
5j The aptitudes, skills, qualifications and abilities are the determining factors to obtain those jobs, however, the group seniority becomes die governing factor when several candidates meet thejob requirements.
23.7	In the event that a job posting is made in advance of the actual occurrence of a vacancy, applications to such a posting will be valid for six (6) months from the date of the posting.
23.8	The successful applicant to aj ob vacancy shall be considered to be on trial util he has worked thirty (30) accumulated work days on thejob in the six (6) month period dating from his fust day of his trial period, in the event that the Company declares through a written form that he has qualified at any time during the trial period and he, £. the same time, agrees in writing to accept thejob, the trial period shall be fulfilled, n-Hnj the period of acceptation as indicated in Appendix “A”, the employee shall be free to return to his formerjob.
Ajob vacancy resulting while an employee is in the trial period of a permanent opening, is not required to be posted until the employeebecomesthe regular incumbent,
When the company, in order to fill a temporary position for a period greater than or equal to the normal training period, must move au employee who holds a regular operating position, it must at all times make sure to program with that employee, for trainingpurposes, another employee in the plant who does not hold a regular position, so that the employee who is moved can return to his regular position as quickly as possible. The employee scheduled in this manner for training purposes must hold the temporary position in question as long as required.
23.9	An employee who has completed his trial period towards filling ajob vacancy which needs to be filled by a regular incumbent, shall be considered to be a regular incumbent and his seniorityshall give him preference overjunior incumbents of the samejob.
45
ARTICLE 23 - SENIORITY (conPd)
23.10	An employee with seniority status who is transferred from hisjob due to a reductionin staff, is expected to return to hisjob when it is again open to him. He shall transfer to Pool Group during the period that his job is down. In the event that he bids for and qualifies to fill a permanentjob opening which has been posted in accordance with Article 23, Section23,6 a) during the time his regularjob is down, he loses his claim to his regular job when it re-opens. In the eventthat hisjob opens to him while he is on lay-off, and he declines a recall to work, he shall hold no further claim to thejob and the opening shall be posted.
In the event that an employee is on lay-off for more than six (6) consecutive months, and that employee was a regular incumbent of a permanent job at time of lay-off, such job will be posted in accordance with Article 23,6 a).
23.11	Job transfers made necessary by absences of employees or by the return to work of employees from sick leave, personal leave of absence of lay-off during any week, are not required to be made util the start of the next scheduled week.
23.12	If an employee's regularj ob starts up during the week, the employee may request a transfer to thejob and such transfer will be made at the staff of the next regular daily shift, providing that such transfer does not require a change of shift.
23.13	Employees are expected to rotate on shifts beginning with the first week of any multiple shift schedule. The senior employees among the regularjob incumbents shall have preference of shifts only for the fhstweek of such schedules. By mutual consent, employees on the samejob may stay on the same shift for more than one week providing they previously advise their supervisor.
23.14	In the event of transfer of operations to this Plant from other Kraft Canada Inc. plants, employees possessing particular skills required by the operation shall be allowed to transfer into the bargaining unit with one (1) month's seniority.
23.15	Employees who, prior to this Agreement, were or hereafter are transferred to a position at the LaSalle Plant outside the bargaining unit, and then returned by the Company to jobs within the bargaining unit, shall return with the plant seniority possessed at the time the transfer first took place.
An employee with no past service within the bargaining unit, transferred into the bargaining unit, shall have one (1) month's seniority.
23.16	At the time of signing this Agreement, the Company shall give to the President of the Union a plant seniority list and a list of seniority for each of the groups A,B, and C and shall assist him in keeping his list up-to-date by advising him. in writing of any changes not later than one (1) full work day following such changes.
46
ARTICLE 23 - SENIORITY (cont’d)
23.17	Seniority provisions contained in this Agreement shall apply from the date of signing this Agreement only to present employees and to future employees, as defined in Article 2 -Bargaining Unit - of this Agreement,
ARTICLE 24 -NOTICE OF LAY-OFF
24,1	a)	in cases of lay-off of more thantwenty-six (26) weeks (6 months), employees are entitled
to airfci.ee of lay-off in accordance with the following:
Less than 1 year of plant seniority -1 week 1 to 5 years of plant seniority	■ 2 weeks
5 to 10 years of plant seniority	- 4 weeks
10 years and more of plant seniority	- 8 weeks
b)	At the time of a lay-off of a duration of more than four (4) weeks and less than twenty-six
(26) weeks (6 months), the employee concerned will receive a notice in conformance with the following table:
0 to 5 years of plant seniority.......1 week notice
5 to 10 years of plant seniority...... 2 weeks notice
10 years and more of plant seniority.. ,4 weeksnotice
When a lay-off is prolonged for more than twenty-six (26) weeks, (6 months), paragraph
24,1	a), will apply and the Company will pay the employee concerned a compensation amount quai to the difference of the number of weeks of the notice of paragraph a) and the number of weeks of notice already given,
c)	in case, of a lay-off of four (4) complete weeks or less, the employee concerned wEL receive a notice of ± least one (1) week.
When a lay-off is prolonged for more than four (4) weeks, paragraph 24.1 b), will apply and the Company will pay the employee concerned a compensation amount covering the difference of the number of weeks of the notice in paragraph b) and the number of weeks of notice already given.
d)	in cases when the Company omits to give sufficientlay-off notice as mentioned above, the Company will pay the employee concerned at the time of his leave
a compensation amount equal to the notice omitted.
e)	The notice mentioned in a), b), and c) will be put in the employee’smailbox and a list of employee’s affected by the lay-off will be posted on die bulletin board that is normally used for the manpower working schedule.
24.2	When the notices of lay-off are cancelled, the Company shall issue new notices of lay-off to employees concerned as provided in Article 24.1.
47
ARTICLE 24 -NOTICE OF LAY-OFF (cont'd)
24.3	The President and Financial Secretary of the Union shall be given, whenever possible, a list of employees to be laid-offor recalled, twenty-four (24) hours before such notices are given, but at the latest prior to the issuance of such notices.
24.4	Notwithstanding Article 24.1 an employee may be recalled during his lay-off to fill a temporary position in the event of a work accident, illness, leave of absence or others. This replacement cannot exceed six (6) weeks and the employee cannot request a new notice of lay-off at the end of this temporary assignment. . Before applying this article, the Company shall apply Article 23.6 a) 10,11 & 12 as long as the individual holding the regular jobs of replacement is qualified and available to do the work
An employee who is called back in this manner is not deemed to have interrupted his two-year period of right of recall as stipulated in Article 23,4b and maintains his layoff status with respect to benefits and the lay-offls deemed to have continued for the purposes of Article 23 J,7,
24.5	The Company may proceed with a recall for temporary work as provided by Article 24,4 without taking seniority into account, if it is a replacement requiring a training period of more than one (1) day and that the recalled employee is qualified to do the work. These steps require Union consent prior to taking place.
ARTICLE 25 -LEAVES OF ABSENCE
25.1	Practices viih respect to leaves of absence without pay shall be in accordance with the followingpolicy:
a)	Upon receipt of a written rsqjest, the Company may grant a personal leave of absence to an employee. Such written rocpest will indicate the reason for the leave of absence, and such reason will be considered ty the company in ardvirg at its decision. It is understood that, in addition, the Company will also take into considerationthe operating needs of the business. Such leaves, except thosegranted for personal disability or for service in the Armed Ebroas, may not exceed twelve (12) calendarrrmtts without breaking seniority. In the event that the employee feels he requires additional time off, he may apply for an extension, but his applicationmust be made at leasttwo (2) vad® prior to the temimatLciiofhis original leave of absence.
Leaves of absence will not be granted for the purpose of allowing an employee to take another position, try out new work or venture into business for himself, if leave of absence is granted, the employee shall be advisedin writing with a copy to the Union.
He leave of absence shall be cancelled, and his employment shall be terminated if he engages in activities other than those for which the leave was granted.
48
ARTICLE 25 • LEAVES OF ABSENCE (cont'd)
b)	A pregnant employee bas the right to a leave of absence for maternity of a maximum duration of eighteen (18) consecutiveweeks.
However, in the case of a leave of absence for maternity leave, the Company will pay the employee the differential between Employment Insurance payment and Kraft Short term disabilitypayment, for a period of six (6) weeks starting on the delivery date.
The maternity leave may te taken after written notice is given at least three (3)	in
advance to the employer indicating the date the leave of absence will start andthe date of return to work. A medical certificate confirming the pregnancy must accompany this notice and mention the expected deliverydate.
The father and the mother of a newly-born child and the person adopting a child who has not reached the school age have the rightto a parental leave of absence withoutpay for a maximum of thirty-four (34) weeks.
The parental leave of absencemay begin at the earliest on the day of the child's birth. It can be taken after written notice is given of ai least three (3) weeks to the employer indicatingthe first day of leave of absence and the date of ustumto work. It ends at the latest one (1) year after the adoption of the child.
in accordance to the Labour Standards Act governing the maternity and parental leaves, the employee, who does not present himself/herself to work on the return to work date giveninthe notice to the employer, is considered having given his resignation.
All other conditions inherent to the maternity leave and parental leave are subject to the Labour Standards Act andare appliedin conformityto this Act.
A pregnant worker who furnishes to the Company a certificate attesting that her working conditions may be physically dangerous to her unborn child, or to herself by reason of her pregnancy, may request to be reassigned to other duties involving no such danger that she is reasonably capable of performing.
If a requested reassignment is not made immediately, the pregnant worker may stop working util she is reassigned or until the date of delivery.
49
necessary to fulfil the legal adoptionrequirement. Such leave of absence will be requested in writing.
-i
50
ARTICLE 25 • LEAVES OF ABSENCE (cont'd)
A worker who furnishes to the Company a certificate attesting that her working conditions involve risks for the child she is breast-feeding may request to be reassigned to other duties involving no such risks that she is reasonably capable of performing.
If the requested reassignment is not made immediately, the worker may stop working until she is reassigned or the child is weaned.
AU inherent conditions to a preventive withdrawal for a pregnant employee or breastfeeding employee are subject to the Health and Safety Act and is applied in conformity to this legislation.
c)	In addition to the foregoing, an employee will be granted leave of absence for the purpose of accepting appointmentto carry out official Union duties or fill an elected public office outside the Plant. It is agreed that no more than six (6) members of the Union be granted such leave concurrently by the Company, hi the event of appointment of employee members of the Union as delegates to a Union Convention, no more than twelve (12) members of the Union will be granted a leave of absence concurrently by the Company. Seniority shall accumulate during such leave.
On return from such leave of absence, the employee returns to his regularjob. In the event that his regular job Is down, he shall be placed in the Pool Group.
The Union will furnish the Company with two (2) weeks' notice, if possible, on requests for such types of leave.
d)	A leave of absence will be granted by the Company to an employee who has at least three (3) years' seniority who requests such leave for the purpose of full-time attendance at a school of recognized educational standards, but such leave shaJ 1 only apply throughout the duration of a full academic year. Seniorityshall accumulatewhile he is on such leave.
The employee shall be eligible for recall in accordance with Article 23, Section 23.4, and such eligibility for recall shall be effective at the beginning of the second full work week following the &te of receipt of his written notice of his intention to return to work. His written notice is to be addressedto the Human Resources Manager.
e)	An employee who is adopting a child will be granted a leave of absence for such time as is reoassmy to fulfil the legal adoptionrequirement. Such leave of absence will be requested in writing.
50
ARTICLE 26 - NO STRIKES OR LOCKOUTS
26.1	During the term of this Agreement, the Company agrees that there shall be no lockout of employees and the Union agrees that there shall be no strike.
Neither the Union, nor any of its stewards, officers, or representatives, shall order, encourage or support a slow-down or walk-out.
The Union will not recognize the rights of employees who participate singly or collectively in such a slow-down orwalk-out.
26.2	The Company agrees that no employee shall be requested or required to cross a picket line established by the Union.
ARTICLE 27 - DURATION OF AGREEMENT
27.1	in the event that any of the provisions of this Agreement shall be altered by legislation, such changes shall not affect the remainder of the provisions hereof
27.2	This Agreement shall be in effect until 23:59 hours on the 21st day of May 2005, Eitherparty can give the other, no less than thirty (30) nor more thsnninety (90) days prior to such expiry date, a written notice of its intention to renew this Agreement or se^ amendmentsto same, in which case this present Agreement shall remain in force during negotiations for its renewal or amendment.
27.3	After either party gives a written notice of its intention to terminate or seek amendmentsto this Agreement the parties shall meet to exchange listings of the changes desired. Negotiations shall start at least twenty (20) clear days prior to the expiration date or such further time as the parties may agree.
27.4	The notice reqiired in Section 27.2 shallbe sufficient if sentbyregisteredmailaddressedto the President of the Union, and if to the Company to the Plant Manager, Ktit. Canada Inc., LaSalle, Quebec.
51
ARTICLE 27 - DURATION OF AGREEMENT fconfdl
27.5	In the event of difference in interpretation of the printed copies of this Agreement, the parties shall refer to the original signed French and English documents.
Sub-titles of the provisions of this Agreement are for index purposes only and are not intended as a guide to interpretation f the Agreement
IN WITNESS THEREOF, die parties hereto have signed this Agreement on the^/ day of /J) 2003.
KRAFT CANADA INC.	UNITED POOD AND COMMERCIAL
WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION. LOCAL 766-P
52
MEMORANDUM 01 INTERPRETATION
DISTRIBUTION OF OVERTIME
1.	Priority Order
1 • 1 Overtime offered to employeesis distributed to those who have signified their
availability following a request of the foreman or his designate, in the following priority:
a)	Among employees scheduled on the job on which overtime is required, and who are qualifiedto perform the work.
b)	Among employees who are scheduled on aj ob in the department unit to which the overtime job is related, arlwho are qualified to perform the work.
c)	Among employees who are scheduledon a job in the department to which the overtime is related, and who are qualifiedto perform the work.
d)	In the event that the overtime assignment cannot be filled under a), b), and c) above, and if the overtime is still required,the Company shall offer the overtime to any employee fern any other Department vitbiri the same group seniority who is qualified to do the work
1*2 At each of the above stepsa), b), c), overtime is distributed by offering to 1he employee with tiie least amount of overtime; in case of equal hours, group seniority takes precedence.
1.3 For the purpose of application of this memorandum of interpretation, jcbs, department mils, and departments are recorded in a documenttransmitted to the Union. The Company, in consultationwith the union, updates this document if necessary to reflect changes that the Company mates from time to time, while respecting the principal that only jobs held by employees of the same seniority group can be listed vithin the same department.
53
df: *
>N< F
2,	SupplementaryProvisions
2,1	Relay Workers
When a relay worker is absent during his normal working hours, the Company will use a relay worker according to the following order of priority based on the hours logged at the time of the offer, with the exception of d):
a)	the regularjob incumbent on his regular day off, qualifiedto perform the work.
b)	the relay worker in the unit, on his regular day off, qualified to perform the work.
c)	the relay worker in the department, on his regular day cff, qualified to perform the work.
d)	Any other relay worker in the plant within the same seniority group who is off duty and qualified to perform the work
e)	The regular job incumbent scheduled to work immediately before or after, for a maximum of four (4) hours
If the overtime assignment cannot be filled according to the above order of priority, the Company will offer the overtime to any employee in the plant within the same group seniority, qualified to perform the work
However, if a relay worker does not complete his shift and must he replaced, the Company must ask the worker from the preceding or following shift, depending on the circumstances, for a maximum of four (4) hours, as long as the position is in operation.
if a relay worker is relieved from hisjob for more than four (4) hours and less than twelve (12) hours, to receive training or for other activities, the Company will a& the relay worker on his day off according to the above order of priority for the number of hours required.
When those activities are for less than four (4) horns, the order of priority will be as follows:
e)i a), b), o) and d).
It is mandatory for relay workers to have a minimum of eight (8) horns rest between two shifts.
A relay worker does not do work that is not part of his position (as defined in Appendix A) and which would otherwise be done in overtime by an employee working the 5-2 schedule.
2,2	Trade Employees
A trade employee assigned to a complex work must complete this work if overtime is required even if another employee becomes eligible to dial overtime, inasmuch as at the end of the three (3)month period, the overtime is distributed in accordance with article 18,9,
54
MEMORANDUM OF INTERPRETATION
DISTRIBUTION OF OVERTIME
3.	Overtime on Scheduled Days:
Solely in the case of distributing overtime in blocks of four (4) hours or less, the programmed days start on Sunday at RX> p.m. and end an Saturday at 3:00 a.m.
Overtime on scheduled days, that is on days which are pari of the employee's weekly work schedule, is offered in blocks of four (4) hours in the order of priority a), b), c), on the basis of hours recorded at the time of the offer. If the company does not manage to fill the second block of four (4) hours in keepingwith b) or c) in the order of priority, the employee who agreed in a) to work the first block of four (4) hours, will be offered the second block of four (4) hours before moving on to d). To be entitled to overtime which follows his shift, the employeemustbe atwork atthe end of the shift which immediatelyprecedes the overtime. Tobe entitled to overtime which immediatelyprecedes the beginning of a drift, the employee must be scheduled on this shift in accordance wiih the weekly work scheduleand be available for work.
4.	Overtimeon Non-scheduled Days:
4.1	Overtime on non-scheduled days, that is Saturday, Sunday, and if applicable on a plant holiday, is offered on the basis of hours recorded on the overtime register as at 3:00 p.m. on 1he Tuesday which immediately precedes the execution of the overtime, wifbin the order of priority a), b), andc).
There is an exception for overtime for non-scheduled days.
Duringa schedule change from 5-2 to 2-2-3 the non-scheduleddays for thatweekend are from Friday at 11:00 p.m. to Monday at 7:00 a.m.
a)	The employee vithin the priority a) is offered in a single opportunity and based on overtime requirements, the total of non-scheduled days at the rate of one shift of bis choice for each non-scheduled days that he accepts to work
b)	The hours not filled are then offered in the order of priority to b) and, if required c), at the rate of one shift atthe employee's choice for each non-scheduled day(s) in the order these days occur. Kxxs offered and accepted by an employee for a non-scheduled day are taken into account to establish his overtime entitlementfor the next unscheduled day.
c)	An employee cannot work sixteen (16) consecutive horns by choiceof shift.
d)	Then the hours are offered tn order of priority d).
55
\NDUM OF INTERPRETATION
RIBUTIQN IF OVERTIME
4.2	In the case that a Monday holiday becomes part of an overtime opportunity of non-scheduled days, the employee must be scheduled on the job the week following the Monday to be eligible for the overtime in accordancewith a), b), and c).
4.3	To be entitled to Saturday or Sunday overtime, the employee is not required to be scheduled on a corresponding]ob the following we^c.
4.4	Two Shift Cperat.icn
in the event of sixteen (16) hours of overtime, it will be dLstdhutedin two segments of eight (8) hours to employees in a) in the order of priority, and. thereafter in accordance with b) for the hours not filled, and thereafter in accordance with c) for hours Still not filled. If the company does not manage to fill the second eight (8) hour block according to b) or c) in the order of priority, the employeewho agreed in a) to work the first eight (8) hour block will be offered the second block of eight (8) hours before moving on to d),
4.5	Three Shift Operation
in the event of twenty-four (24) hours of overtime, it will be distributed in three segments of eight (8) hours to employees in a) in the order of priority. If one segment is not filled, the two employees who accepted are offered twelve (12) hours. If one of the two refuse the twelve (12) hours, we come back to segments of eight (8) hours and the non-filled segment of eight (8) hours is offered to the employees in b) in the order of priority, and thereafter to employees in c). If the company does not manage to fill the last eight (8) hour block in accordancewith b) ore) of the order of priority, the employeewho agreed in a) to work twelve (12) hours vail be offered the last eight (8) hour blockbefore moving on to d).
in the event there is two segments to fill, the non-filled segments are offered to employees in
b)	in the order of priority, and thereafter to employees in c), If there are still non-filled segments, the employeewho agreed in a) to work the first eight (8) hour block will be offered a second eight (8) hour blockbefore moving onto d).
The same principle applies for segments of less than eight (8) hours
56
MEMORANDUM OF INTERPRETATION
DISTRIBUTION OF OVERTIME
5,	Recording of Overtime fins:
5.1	Overtime effaced and accepted in the order of priority a), b), c), and d) and e) for the relay workers are recorded on the register posted in the department of the employee by the foreman in charge at the beginning of these overtime hours, except if the overtime is cancelled by the Company.
5.2	Ifaurs of overtimedeclined by an employee shall not be accumulated as having been worked, but shall nevertheless be recorded as having been offered to him.
5.3	When anemployeeis scheduled on a differentjob or who is absent on leave without pay for more than ten (10) work days, he will be recorded vdftl the highest number of overtimehours already accumulated on that job by the other incumbents: In such cases, the regular incumbent wEL have preference over die temporary transferee forthe Erst offer only.
5.4	if the displacement for one (1) or nxe is required by the Company to meet temporary requirements, or an employee assigned to a project/training or during the acceptance period for accepting positions provided in Appendix A, the employee will return with the hours on the register when he left, plus any overtime hours worked during his reassignment.
5.5. Hours of overtimerecorded is accumulated for periods of thnae(3) rtml±BaiLy.
Theseperiods are:
• January 1 to March 31 -	April 1 to June 30
~	July 1 to September30
■ October 1 to December 31
If an employee believes that he has not been provided with a fair opportunity to share the overtime available within the order of priority a), b) and c), his claim will be processed immediately,up to thirty (30) days following the date of the incident, through the grievance procedure.
57
MEMORANDUMOF AGREEMENT EMPLOYMENT SECURITY PLAN
I) This plan applies only to active employees on June 1, 1992 and assures to these employees a nriimruTi number of annual hours of work with the Company or pay in lieu of hours of work which appears in the followingtable next to the date of employmentof the employee.
Junel, 1986 to May 31,1987
1,000
Junel, 1987 to May 31,1988	800
June 1,1988 to May 31,1989	600
Junel, 1989 to May 31,1990	400
a)	For the purpose of this plan, theadmissibleemployeemust:
i)	has received not less than thirty-five (35) pay cheques from the Company within any twenty-four (24) consecutive months from his date of hire but prior to die beginning of the year for which he becomes eligible; and
ii)	performs no less than two hundred (200) hours of work for the Company during the year; and
iii)	is employed by the Company and covered by the Collective Agreement both immediately prior to the beginning of the year and cmtanung up to and including the last day of the year.
Year" means the calendaryear
MEMORANDUM CF INTERPRETATION DISTRIBUTION CF OVERTIME
II)	At the conclusion of the year, the Company shall determine the following;
a)	The total hours which each eligible employee was provided with work or pay in lieu by the
Company, which includes;
all hours worked within an employee's regular schedule of work; and
2J ail hours for which an employee was provided with pay for ^fecafcim, Holiday, Bereavement, appearance in Court, Notice ofLayoff, and Minimum Recompense;plus
b)	The total hours that an eligible employee was absent from work for any of the following
reasons:
1)	absence with pay, inducting absence under Article 25, Leaves of Absence;
2)	sickness or accident;
3)	disciplinary suspension from work;
4)	discharged and reinstated where the terms of reinstatement do not provide for compensation for time lost with respect to the period from discharge to reinstatement.
5)	the employee is unavailable or unableto perform the task assignedto him;
6)	the employee is ineligible for benefits under the provisions of Article 1, Paid Plant Holidays;
7)	a Plant or part of a Plant is closed by circumstances beyond the control of the Company inducting, but not restricted to, an emergency, a loss of power or water supply, unavailability of raw materials, for all eligible employeesso affected; and
8)	in the event of a strike, any situation arising out of a strike, or a lockout, for all eligible employees at the affected Plant. The words "strike" ari "lockout" is defined as under the Labour Code.
59
MEMORANDUM OF INTERPRETATION
DISTRIBUTION OF OVERTIME
III)	If, at the conclusion of the year, the trial hours which each eligible employee was provided with work or pay in lieu plus the total hours he was absent from work under Section 2) is not equal to or higher than his applicable mirriirun hours under Section 1) then he shall be eligible for an Employment Securitypayment on the net difference.
To determine any payments due, the net difference in hours is multiplied by the weighted average base rate for the year. Such payment shall be made by the Company as soon as possible but not later than sixty (60) days afterthe end of the year.
Any payments made in compliance with the provisions of Labour Standards Legislation, in excess of the terms of the Collective Agreement, is deducted from such payment.
IV)	An employee shall less bis eligibility under the 0H1 and shall forfeit any payments which may otherwise have been due to him if during the course of the year.
a) he resigns, retires, or otherwise loses bis seniority rights under the provisions of Article 23, Seniority;
5) he is discharged for just cause or his employment with the Company is otherwise terminated ardhe is not reinstated through the Grievance or Arbitration Procedures;
c)	he ispennanentlylaid-offwijhirLthemeaningofthe Collective Agreement;
d)	he transfers to a pasitim whEnrithe Companynot coveredby the Collective Agreement;
e)	he is deceased; or
f)	he declinesrrcre than four (4) full scheduledweeks of work duringthe year
V)	The Employment Security Plan shall terminate and the Company shall not be liable to make any payments under the Plan whatsoever in the event that;
a)	the Company becomesbankrupt or insolvent;
b)	the Company terminates its operations at the location provided for under the Collective Agreement in which case the Plan shal terminate in respect of eligible employees at the affected location; or
c)	the Company terminates part of its operations at the location provided for under the Collective Agreement in which case the Plan shall terminate automatically in respect of any eligible employeewho was laid-off as a result.
60
ANNEXE A - TAUX HORAIRES
APPENDIX A - TAUX HORAIRES
KRAFT CANADA INC.
TIJAC / UFCW LOCAL 766P
IKimdeLaSate/LaSalle Platt
ANNEXE A - TAUX HORAIRES
APPENDIX A- TAUX HORAIRES
1&8? Job nos.	JOBS	POSTES	Gr. d'anc. Seniority	Cjasse class	P6riode dacceptation Acceptance period	Taux horaire Hourly rate 19mai 2002	Taux horaire Hourly rate 18mai 2X3	Taux horaire Hourly rate 16 mai 2004
H2 057008	Techn. sample micro	Techn. Lab. SchantBlons Micro	C	4	10	19.78	20.18	20.58
H2014003	Coffee bean dumper	D6verseur de F6ves Cafe	A	4	5	19.78	20.18	20.58
H2009009	Process cfeaner/Regutar	Nettoyeur proc6d£/Rggulier	A	4	5	19.78	20.18	20.58
H203401S	Fler operator/Soluble	OpdrateurempL des pOts/Soluble	A	4	5	19.78	20.18	20.58
4203d 021	Relief packing operator/Soluble	Opdrateur de rettve emballage/Solubie	A	4	10	19.78	20.18	20.58
H2034004	Operator process/DW	Operate ur proc0d6/DW	A	4	10	19.78	20.18	20.58
H2034001	Dryer operator/DW	Openrteurde sichoirfDW	A	4	10	19.78	20.18	20.58
H2034002	Mbcer operatar/OW	Opdrateur mdtangeudDW	A	4	10	19.78	20.18	20.58
H2034033	Tempering operator 1 oz./WB	Opireteur de temp6rage 1 ozJWB	A	4	5	19.78	20.18	20.58
H2034034	Tempering operator Chips/WB	Op6rateur de tempdrage Chips/WB	A	4	5	19.78	20.18	20.58
H2O34028	Refiner operator/WB	Opdrateur au raffinage/WB	A	4	5	19.78	20.18	20.58
K2034032	Roaster operator/WB	Opdrateur Torfefacteur/WB	A	4	5	19.78	20.18	20.58
H2034026	Mixer operafor/WB	Opdrateur MAtangeur/WB	A	4	5	19.78	20.18	20.58
K2O34029	Relief operator 1 oz./WB	Operateurrefeve 1 ozJWB	A	4	10	19.78	20.18	20.58
H2034030	Relief operator chips/WB	Opdrateur refeve chips/WB	A	4	10	19.78	20.18	20.58
H205000S	Process service/WB process	Prdposd au service/procddd WB	A	4	5	19.78	20.18	20.58
H2014002	Bean dumper/WB	Ddverseur de ttves/WB	A	4	10	19.78	20.18	20.58
H20M001	Receiving attendant	Propose Reception	A	4	5	19.78	20.18	20.58
H2060001	Warehouse attendant/EXP.	Prepose/Exp.	A	4	5	19.78	20.18	20.58
K2060002	Checker/EXP.	verificateur/EXP.	A	4	5	19.78	20.18	20.58
H2054001	Storekeeper	Magasinter	A	4	5	19 78		
								
KRAFT CANADA INC.
TUAC / UFCW LOCAL 766P
UtIM da IsSal*/L*S*0* Ptanl
ANNEXE A - TAUX HORAIRES
APPENDIX A * TAUX HORAIRES
No. de poste Job nos.	JOBS	POSTES	6r. d'anc. Seniority group	Classe Class	Periode d'acceptation Acceptance period	Taux horaire Hourly rate 19 mai 2002	Taux horaire Hourly rate 18 mai 2003	Taux horaire Hourly rate 16 mai 2004
H20S7011	Techn. various assignment	Techn. assignations diverse*	C	3	5	19.45	19.85	20.25
42009010	Cleaner at roasiers/Regular	Nettoyeur aux ton6faeteure/R6miliBr	A	3	5	19.45	19.85	20.25
42034010	SIG opera tor/Regular	Operateur SlG/Rdgulier	A	3	5	19.45	19.85	20.25
42034037	CAN ope ra tor/Regular	Operateur CAN/R6gulier	A	3	5	19.45	19.85	20.25
42O46001	Relief & service SIG/Reg.	Propose au service/rsieve SIG/Reg.	A	3	10	19.45	19.85	20.25
H2046002	Relief & service CAN/Reg.	Propose au sarvtee/retove CAN/Rea.	A	3	10	19.45	19.85	20.25
H2034020	Labeller operator CAN/Reg.	Operate ur etiquetteuse CAN/Reg.	A	3	5	19.45	19.85	20.25
K2O34036	Operator ICA/Tintie/Regular	Opera teur ICA/Tintie/Reauler	A	3	5	19.45	19.85	20.25
4203400B	Fractional operator (FSPD)/Reg.	Operateurfradrormefe (FSPDVR6g.	A	3	5	19.45	19.85	20.25
H2022006	Process Helper/Soluble	Aide au orocede/Sotubie	A	3	5	19.45	19.85	20.25
42014004	Dumper superbags/Soluble	Deverseur supersacs/Sokibie	A	Note 2	5	19.45	19.85	20.25
42034016	Labeller operator/Soluble	Operateur etiquetteuse/Solubte	A	3	5	19.45	19.85	20.25
4203SCO1	Trayfbrmer operator/Soluble	Operateur formeuse de barauette/Sot.	A	3	5	19.45	19.85	20.25
42030004	Service attendant/Soluble	Propose au service/SoluUe	A	3	5	19.45	19.85	20.25
H2O34012	Cloud operator/Soluble	Op6rateur Cloud/Sotutte	A	3	5	19.45	19.85	20.25
H2034027	Packer operator Chips/WB	Operateur emballeur Chips/WB	A	3	5	19.45	19.85	20.25
42034035	Wrapper operators 1 oz-M/B	Op6rateur emballeur 1 ozJWB	A	3	5	19.45	19.85	20.25
								
H2050005	Batteries attendant	Prepose aux batteries	A	2	5	19.28	19.68	20.08
42033001	Oiler	Huieur	A	2	5	19.28	19.68	20.08
H2050001	Rework attendant/coffee	Prepose au reeve lage/cafe	A	2	5	19.28	19.68	20.08
42038003	Aut. pallet izer operator/Soluble	Operateur palettisation aut./SoluUe	A	2	5	19.28	19.68	20.08
42009007	Machine cleaner/Regutar	Nettoyeur de machine/R6gu!ier	A	2	5	19.28	19.68	20.08
H2013C02	Depalletizer Canline/Regulier	Depalettlseur Cantine/Reguiier	A	2	5	19.28	19.68	20.08
H2034007	IVF packer/Regular	Emballeur IVF/Regutier	A	2	5	19.28	19.68	20.08
H203403B	CAN tidders packer/Regular	Emballeur CAN couvercles/R6gulier	A	2	5	19.28	19.68	20.08
H2034CU	Tote dumper / Soluble	Deverseur/Soluble	A	2	5	19.28	19.68	20.08
H2009006	Machine deaner/Solubie	Nettoyeur de machines/Soluble	A	2	5	19.28	19.68	20.08
H203400S	Relief packing operator/DW	Operateur de reieve embadaqe/DW	A	2	10	19.28	19.68	^ 20.08
42060003	Service person/DW	Prepose au servtce/DW	A	2	5	19.28	19.68	20.08
42034003	Operator packing/DW	Operateur A I'embaltaae Dream-Whip	A	2	5	19.28	19.68	20.08
H2009C04	Machine cleaner/DW	Nettoyeur de machines/DW	A	2	5	19.28	19.68	20.08
10009003	Process cteaner/WB	Nettoyeur de procede/WB	A	2	5	19.28	19.66	20.08
H20S0002	General service/WB pack.	Prepos6 au setvice/Emb. WB	A	2	5	19.28	19.68	20.08
H203S002	Case Packer 1 ozVWB	Emballeur carton 1ozJWB	A	2	5	19.28	19.68	20.08
H2038001	PaOetizer attendant/WB	Operateur patettsation/WB	A	2	5	19.28	19.68	20.08
H2009000	Mobile unit attendant/WB	Prepose unite mobUe/WB	A	2	5	19.28	19.68	20.08
KRAPT CANADA INC
TUAC / UPCW LOCAL 766P	Us** <3e LaSalle I LaSaSe Pant
ANNEXE A -TAUX HORAIRES
APPENDIX A - TAUX HORAIRES
No. de poste Job nos.	JOBS	POSTES	Gr. d'anc. Seniority group	Classe Class	P£riode d'acceptation Acceptance period	Taux horaire Hourly rate 19 mai 2002	Taux horaire Hourly rate 18 mai 2003	Taux horaire Hourly rate 16 mai 2004
H2009005	Mobile unit attends nt/Distr.	Pr6pos£ unite moble/Distr.	A	1	5	18.88	19.28	19.68
HJM7001	Refuse collector general	Prepose au service Sanivan	A	1	5	18.88	19.28	19.68
H2035003	Packer/DW	EmbaBeurTDW	A	1	5	18.88	19.28	19.68
H2009002	Janiior/Soluble	Prtpose e I’entreUen/Solubte	A	1	5	18.88	19.28	19.68
H2009002	Janitor/WB	Prepose d I'entratien/WB	A	1	5	18.86	19.28	
								
	Attendant Lockout tagout program	Prepose au programme de cad anas sage	A	Note 2	5			
	Attendant Prism Line Monitoring	Prepoafe - PRISM Une Mentoring	A	Note 2	5			
	Posies de remptacant permanent temporal re				15	Les ti tula ires receiver* fe taux du poste qu'Bs remplacent.		
	Temporary permanent replacement jobs				15	The incumbent receive the rate of the job they replace		
-------	• .------- ■ --=-I------------:-------------------------------.-------------------------___________________i	"	|..nj	Ul	UlCf I ViJJiaL-C
Notel: A compter de la date de signature da la convention, loraque la compagnta UbOre un utar16 do son posto pour exAcuter de» ttches relUes aux sujete sulvants: SIMDUT, eauxuaOos, formateur chariots ettvateurs etformateur brigade Incendle, le salarte revolt 0.50$ de I'haure an surplus de son taux normal. Dans ce cas, les articles 21.6 et 21.6 no s’appHquent pas.
1
KRAFT CANADA INC.
TUACUJFCW LOCAL 766P	Utlna *» LnSa«e / L«Sme Ptwrt
APPENDIX “B”
BENEFITS PLAN
PREAMBLE
The benefits outlined in this appendix describethe coverage and provisions under which the Kraft Canada Inc, Medical and Dental Plans will be administered. Should the need for additional interpretative or adjudicativelanguage arise, the officiaiplan document will prevail.
1)	MEDICAL PLAN
a)	Eligibility
The Kraft Canada Inc, Medical Plan is offered to all employees who have acquired seniority status. You and your eligible dependents are covered under this plan as soon as you have completedyour probationary period.
b)	Cost of the Plan and Options
Kraft Canada pays the full cost of the Base Plan coverage provided by the plan for you and your eligible dependants, The details ofthe base medical plan are explained in the Collective Agreement.
The medical plan also offers differentsupplementary coverage options:
• The premiums are required for supplemental coverage depending on the option choice. The inriifHtai costs are based on 48 weeks/year.
Option A Option B Option C
Option D OptionB&D
Individual coverage
$0.92/week
Sl-36/week S0,71/week SU 2/week $2,67/we*k
Family coverage
S1.94/week
S2.86/week
$1.72/we*k
S3.29/week
$6.15/week
“ The choice of option of A or B including unlimited reimbursement of eligible prescription drugs is a mandatory requirement for Quebec employees as aresult of Quebec law (Bill 33).
■ The duration for which an option is chosen will be determined when the employee reregisters for the option in March 2003.
• The premiums indicated above are guaranteed until December 31, 2003,
As of January 1, 2004, and until March 21,2005, the premiums (based on 48 weeks/year) shall he as follows:
Option A Option B Option C Option D OptionB&D
Individual coverage
S1.64/week
$'2,42/week
$1.27/week
5235/week
$4.77/week
Family coverage
$3.46Aveek
$5,10/week
$3.08/week
SS.SSAveek
S10.97/week
65
APPENDIX “B”	BENEFITSPLAN
1)	MEDICAL PLAN (cant’d)
b)	Cost of the Plan and Options (followed)
Below is a table of the available options.
PLUS Paramedical services tip to 500$ / year
vision care
3	150 $ / 2 years
fa Eg	Heating aids
n fa © E	300 $ 13 year
	Ambulance/iati costs up
5 S! B	1 000$ /year
GO	Nursing and prosthetic
	services up to
	10 000$/year
700 $ / year
200 $ / 2 years
900 $/ year
300 $ / 2 years
500 $/3 years
1 000 $ I 3 years
1 500 $ / year
15 000 $ / year
2 000 $ t year
20 000 $ I year
c)	Eligible Expenses
Kraft Canada Inc. tedicaL plan reimburses a portion of eligible expenses, providing that the services are medically necessary and prescribed by a physician and that the fee charged is reasonable and customaryforthe services provided.
The eligible expenses are reimbursed at 100% up to the yearly maximum indicated in the table,
66
APPENDIX “B”
BENEFITS PLAN
L)	MEDICAL PLAN (cont’d)
d)	DEFINITION of "EligibleDependants"
Eligible dependants includeyour spouse and your dependent children.
Dependent children are defined as your unmarried children who are:
- less than 19 years old and not in full-time employment,
»	less than 2$ years old if full-time student attending an accredited educational
facility and chiefly dependent on you for supportandmaintenance.
"	incapable of self-sustainingemployment by reason of mental retardation or
physical handicap, who are chiefly dependent upon you for maintenance and supportare residing in Canacfeand who became so incapablebefore attaining age 19,
The term "child"includesany legally adoptedchild and any stepchild who is supported solely by you and permanently resides in your household, and any other child for whom you are legally responsible for support and care.
%cuseis defined asyourlegal or common-law spouse. A common-law spouse is any person who has been living with.you for at least one (1) year and is publicly presented as your spouse.
e)	Hospital Expenses
The. plan reimburses 100% of hospital care up to a maximum of$l 0,000 per year.
Hospital benefits provide coverage for private, semi-private and convalescentroom care for hospitals subsidized by the government. This does not includeprivate hospitals.
If you are hospitalized outside of Canada for a medically necessary treatment not available in Canada and for which there is no alternate treatmait available in Canada, medical expenses that exceed the allowance paid by any provincial govemmentplan are reimbursed based on reasonable and customary charges.
67
APPENDIX <!BS>	BENEFITS PLAN
1) MEDICAL PLAN (confd)
f)	Drug reimbursement.
The plan reimburses 100% of drugs that are not available over the counter. The option including unlimited reimbursement of eligible prescription drugs is a mandatory legal requirement for Quebec employees as a result of Quebec law (Bill 33). The premiums related to the chosen options must be paid to be covered.
g)	Expenses for emergencytreatmentout-of-country.
The plan reimburses 100% of the cost of medical expenses up to a maximum of $25,000 per year.
" Emergency treatment of an illness or accident occurring while outside Canada is reimbursed on a reasonable and customary basis.
■ Emergency travel assistanceexpenses as follows;
You can leave with peace of mind, knowing that if you or a member of your family require emergency medical assistance- help isjustaphone call away.
Should an emergency occur, the first step is to did the number of the back of your identification card.
Should you or a member of your family require EMERGENCY MEDICAL TREATMENT while travelling, the foliowing services are available to you from WorldAxess:
Referral to a physician, dentist or appropriate medical care facility.
Payment coveragefor emergencymedical, pharmaceutical, and surgical hospital bills.
68
APPENDIX “B”	BENEFITS PLAN
1)	MEDICAL PLAN (cont’d)
World Access will also provide you with the following EMERGENCY TRANSPORTATION
services:
■	Emergency medical transportation ifnecessary (1)
" in the event of death, necessary arrangements will be made to have the deceased’s body returned home to Canada. Expensesofup to$5,000 are covered.
“ If you or your spouse require hospitalization while travelling, arrangements will be made for your children, should they be left unattended, to return to their home in Canada. Children must be under 16 years of age. if necessary, arrangements for an escort to accompanythe children tdlLbe made. (1)
■	If a coveredtraveller should lose his/her return flight due to the hospitalization of a covered family member, arrangements for one way Economy Class transportation to the place of departure will be provided. (1)
" Should a covered traveller be travelling alone and be confined to a hospital for more than seven days, the cost of transportation of an immediate family member to visit the hospitalized person is covered. Return economy fare for one family member will be permitted, A family member is a person who is a blood relative or who normally resides with the hospitalized person.(1)
(1) Reimbursementis limited to $5,000 per event.
World Access - A CommunicationCentre
. World Access also functions as a message centre. By dialling World Access’ number in Washington, you can leave important messages for up to fifteen days.
.	World Access will contactfamily members ’ and your employer to ipdatethem.
.	Yourregularphysicianwill be consulted if necessary.
. in an emergency, World Access can provide telephone interpretation services in most major languages.
Additional Services:
Assistance in arranging the replacement of lost documents or tickets.
Expenses of up to $700 are covered for commercial accommodation ard meals incurredby you, or a member of your family while staying with the hospitalized person.
69
APPENDIX "B”	BENEFITS PLAN
1)	MEDICAL PLAN (cont’d)
Your Emergency Travel Assistance benefit will help cover the cost of accommodationif you should require convalescence following hospitalization. Expenses of up to $75 per day will be coveredfor a maximum of 5 days.
If an emergency should occur and you are unable to drive your vehicle home, excluding commercial vehicles, arrangements will be made to co-ordinatethe return of your vehicle. Expenses of up to $500 are covered.
Referral for legal sendees.
NOTE: THEAMOUNTS IN THIS SECTTONCOVERTHE BASE PLAN; FOR THE OPTIONS REFER TO THE TABLE.
h) Paramedical Services
The plan reimburses 100% of the followingmedical expenses:
Up to 500$ per civil year per insured person for all eligible paramedical expenses and services combined. Paramedical services include sendees of professionals such as, physiotherapist, psychologist, chiropractor, podiatrist, osteopath, speech therapist, naturopath and acupuncturist. Eligible expenses includeX-rays. To be eligible, the services provided met be within the scope of the license held by the practitioner.
i)	Vision Care
The plan reimburses 100% of prescription glasses and frames, contact lenses and/or eye examinations'up to a maximum of 150$ per insured person per twenty four (24) month period.
j)	Hearing Aids
The plan reimburses 100% of hearing aids up to a maximum of300$ per insuredpersonper 36 monthperiod.
k)	Ambulance and laboratory Services
The plan reimburses 100% of combined expenses up to a maximum of 1000$ peryear, per insured person.
Charges for the use of a licensed ambulance for local transportation to and from the nearest hospital. Emergency transportation by airlineto and from the nearest hospital within your province of residence and equipped to provide the required medical sendees are also eligible, subjeetto a maximum equal to an economy airfare,
Laboratory tests and x-rays for diagnosis not covered by any government plan.
70
APPENDIX “B”	BENEFITS PLAN
1)	MEDICAL PLAN (cont’d)
1) Other Medical Sendees
The plan reimburses 100% of the following eligible medical expenses:
The following expenses are combined and paid individually or in combination up to a maximum of 10,000$ per year per insured.
-	Rental or purchase of braces and crutches, and purchase or prostheses required for
therapeutic use.
-	Rental or purchase of a wheel chair, hospital bed, iron lung of oxygen equipment required
for therapeutic purposes.
-	Orthopaedic shoes and orthotics prescribed by a physician and required to correct a
diagnosed physical impairment. Once the first expensehas been paid for by the plan, the cost ofreplacementwill only be covered if it is requiredas a result of pathological change. However, children irder 16 years of age are eligibleto maximum of three (3) pairs of shoes per civil year.
-	Glycemia control equipment for insulin dependent diabetics prescribed by a physician, up
to a lifetimemaxiinumof $200,
■ Dental services required to repair natural tasth damaged as a result of an accident up to $5,000, provided the repairs commence withinthree months ofthe accident.
-	Rinsing services by private nurse. Nursing services rriEt be prescribedby a physician
and provided by a nurse not related to the employee and not residing in the employee’s home. Coverage of $10,000 every 36 months.
m)	Coordination of Benefits
Benefits payable according to the previous conditions must also take into consideration conditions specified in other similar plans. Similar pians referto those plans providing for benefits or services, with respect to medical and dental care, for which an employer, other than Kraft Canada Inc, contributes or deposits employee contributions or state governed plans or plans supported by public contributions.
71
APPENDIX “B”	BENEFITS PLAN
1) MEDICAL PLAN (cont’d)
n)	Exclusions
The Kraft Canada Inc. Health Care Plan does not cover:
"	Services and suppliesnot included in the list of eligible expenses.
' Charges for general health examinations,
’	Sendees paid for under any federal or provincial government legislation.
" Cosmetic surgery or treatment, including hospital confinement for such surgery or treatment.
Charges related to any disability for which benefits are provided under any workers' compensationlegislation.
Dental work where a third party is responsible for payment of such charges.
Chargesrelatedto injury resulting directly a:indirectly from war, declared ornot, insurrectionorriot, or hostilities of any kind,
Chargesfor services or supplies which are furnished without the recommendation and approval of a physician acting within the scope of his a: her license.
Charges relatedto intentionally self*inflected wounds.
Drugs, serum, injectable drugs or suppliesthat are not approvedby Health and Welfare, Canada, and that are experimental or limited in use.
Charges which are not medically necessary for the care and treatment cf any existingor suspectedinjmy, disease or pregnancy,
Charges made by a physician for travel, broken appointments, communication costs, completion of claim forms orphysician's supplies.
Charges which would not normally have been incurred but for the presence of this coverage or for which the employee or dependent is not legallyrequired to pay.
72
APPENDIX "B”	BENEFITS PLAN
1)	MEDICAL PLAN (coat’d)
o)	In the Event of Disability
If you are absent firm work due to injury or illness, coverage under the Medical Plan is maintained for you and your eligible dependants, for as long as you are receiving Kraft Canada Inc disability benefits providing premiums related to the chosen options are paid. The premiums may be deducted from disability benefits or paid by cheque.
p)	in the Event ofDSEdh
in 1he event of your death while an active Kraft Canada Inc, employee, coverage under the Medical Plan continues for your eligible dependants for three (3) months from your date of death, providing the premiums continueto be paid.
q)	Authorized ShortTerm Absence
in the event of short term authorized absence, you and your eligible dependants remain covered under Kraft Cenada Inc. Medical Plan to the exception of the cut of the country emergency nedicBl treatment, providing the premiums related to the chosen option are paid, for an authorized absence of one (1) month or less.
t) intheEventofaLay-off
if you are laid-off for a period of six (6J months or less, you remain covered by Kraft Canada Medical Plan, as well as, your eligible dependants providingpremiums related to the chosen option are paid. Out of the country emergency medical treatment coverage ceases on your employmenttermination date.
s)	Termination ofEmployment
Coverage ceases for you and your eligible dependants at the end of the month in which yon terminate your employmentwith Kraft Canada Inc providing premiums related to the chosen option are paid. Out of the country emergencymedical treatment coverage ceases on your employmenttermination cfe.
73
APPENDIX “B”	BENEFITS PLAN
2)	DENTALPLAN
a)	Eligibility
The Dental Care Plan is offered to all employees who have acquired seniority status. You and your eligible dependants are covered under this plan upon completion of your probationary period.
b)	Cost of the Pian
Kraft Canada Inc, pays the full cost of the coverage provided by the plan for your and your eligible dependants.
c)	DEFINITION of "Eligible Dependants"
Eligible dependants include your spouse and your dependent children.
Dependent children are defined as your unmarried children who are:
- less than 19 years old and not in full-time employment,
•	less than 2$ years old if lull-time student attending an accredited educational facility and chiefly dependenton you for support and maintenance.
*	incapable of self-sustaining employment by reason of mental retanbtim or physical handicap, 'who are chiefly dependent upon you for maintenance and support and are residing in Canada and who became so incapable before attaining age 19.
The term "child" includes any legally adopted child and any stepchild who is supported solely by you and permanently resides in your household, and any other child for whom you are legally responsible for support and care.
"Spouse" is defined as your legal or common-law spouse. A common-law spouse is a person who has been living vdtTi you for at least one(l) year and is publicly presented as your spouse.
74
APPENDIX “B’
BENEFITS PLAN
2)	DENTAL PLAN (confd)
d)	Eligible Expenses
The Kraft Canada Inc. Dental Plan covers 80% of the eligible expenses for three categories of dental care:
•	Basic services
•	Major restorative work
■	Orthodontic treatment
The maximum amount reimbursed for the first two categories combined is $1,200 per person per calendar year for you and each of your eligible dependants for the first two categories combined. The lifetime maximum benefit for orthodontic treatment is $2,000 per person.
Efeodirun eligible expenses are established in accordance with die current fee guide of the dental association, when several treatment possibilities exist, reimbursement of eligible expenses may be determined based on an alternate treatment.
e)	Basic Services
Diagnostic
-	Consultations
•	Single diagnostic x-rays
-	Completesefies of x-rays: once every 24 months
-	oral examinations: once every six months
-	Study casts: once per year
Preventative
-	Scaling and polishing (prophylaxis)once every six months
•	Topicalfluoride
-	Passive space maintained (that do not move the teeth) fordependentchildrenonly
-	oral hygiene instruction once every six months
75
APPENDIX “B”
BENEFITSPLAN
2)	DENTAL PLAN (cont’d)
f)	Minor restorative work
•	Fillings (silver amalgam, silicate or syntheticrestorations)
•	Stainless steel crowns
Oral Surgery
*■ Removal of teeth, including impactedteeth and residual roots
■	Anaesthesia
•	Bast operative care
Endodontics
" Emergency endodonticprocedures and root canal therapy Periodontics
■	Treatment of diseases of the gum and other suppcrtingtissue of the teeth.
Repair or refining and rebasing of dentures including addition of new teeth MAJOR RESTORATIVE WORK
Gold inlays, onlays and crowns Note:
When a tooth can be restored with silver amalgam, silicate or synthetic restorations, benefits will be determinedbased on the usual costs of such a restoration.
Replacement of dentures and other dental appliances:
The initial purchase of a dental appliance is covered as well as the replacement of an existing appliance which is at least five years old and no longer serviceable.
Orthodontic treatment
"	Correction of malocclusion of the teeth
-	Full-mouth reconstruction
76
APPENDIX “B”	BENEFITS PLAN
2)	DENTAL PLAN (coat’d)
g)	In the Event of Disability
If you are absent from work due to injury or illness, coverage under Kraft Canada Inc. Dental Plan is maintained, at no cost io you for you and your eligible dependants. This coverage is maintained for as long as you are receiving Kraft Canada Inc. disability benefits.
h)	In the Event of Death
In the event of your death while an active Kraft Canada Inc. Employee, coverage under the D&±aL Care Plan continues for your dependants for three months from your date of death,
i)	Authorized Short Team Absence
In the event of short term authorized absence, you lorain covered free of charge by the dental plan as well as your eligible dependants during an authorized absence from work of one month or less.
j)	Terminationof Employment or Lay-off
1,	Coverage ceases for you and your eligible dependants at the end of the month in which you terminate your employment with Kraft Canada Inc.
2.	In the event of a lay-off, you will cmtinueto be covered by the dental plan as well as your eligible dependants for a maximum of six (6) months.
k)	Coordination of Benefits
Benefits payable according to the previous conditions must also take into consideration conditions specified in other similarplans. Similar plans refer to those plans providing for benefits or services, with respect to medical and dental care, for which an employer other than Kraft Canada Inc. contributes or deposits employee contributions, or State govemedplans or plans supported by public contributions.
l)	Exclusions
The Kraft Canada Inc. Dental Care Plan does not cover:
* Sendees or supplies that are primarily for cosmetic dentistry, e.g., bonding, bleaching and facings.
77
APPENDIX “B”	BENEFITS PLAN
2) DENTAL PLAN (contM)
Sendees covered by any government plan.
Sendees or supplies not furnished by a legally qualified dentist or denturist
Sendees or supplies necessitated directly or indirectly as the result of committing, attempting to commit or provoking an assault or criminal, or by a war or act of war, declared or not, insurrection orriot, or hostilities of any kind,
Miscellaneous charges such as counselling, travel, broken appointments, communicationcosts or completion of claim forms,
Sendees or supplies resulting from any intentionally self-inflicted'wound.
Any hospital charges for board and room and related servicesand supplies.
Any dental examinations required by a third party.
Services or supplies not medically necessary.
Sendees or supplies for implantology, including tooth implantation or transplantation and surgical insertion of fabricatedimplants.
78
APPENDIX “B”________________________________________________________BENEFITS PLAN
3)	LIFEINSURANCE
a)	Eligibility
The basic life instance coveragebecomes effective at the completion date of the probationary period.
You may apply for the optional insuranceplans for you and your eligible dependants within 30 days following the completion of your probationary period. Optional Life coverage for you and your spouse becomes effective once accepted by the insurance company. Optional Life coverage for your eligible children becomes effective as soon as you apply.
in order to sela± optional coverage for your dependants, you must also select optional coverage for yourself. Coverage may be changed any January 1. However, approval by the insurance company is required for increases to OptionalLife Coverage.
b)	Summary of Coverage
AMOUNT OF INSURANCE
	EMPLOYEE	SPOUSE	CHILDREN
Basic Life Insurance	1 x annual base salary		
OptionalLife Insurance	Units of $10,000* to a maximum $500,000	Lrteof $10,000 up to 50% employee coverage	$5,000 per child
*Up to 8 tines your base salary
79
APPENDIX "B”	BENEFITS PLAN
3)	LIFE INSURANCE(cont’d)
c)	Basic Life Insumace Amount of Coverage
Under the Basic Life Insurance Plan, you are insured for an amount equal to one time your annual base salary. This amountis paid to your beneficiary ifyou die from any cause.
Effective May 21, 1995, the Company wEL assume the Ml cost of providing Term Insurance coverage of ten thousand dollars ($10,000) decreasing by one thousand dollars ($1,000) each year until a mmiirun of five thousand dollars ($5,000) for ai employee effective his normal retirement date, or who retires from the Company while in active employee status on or after agefifty-five (55) with ten (10)years or mate of service,
Cost of the ISan
Kraft Canada Inc. pays the full cost of the coverage provided by the Basic Life insurance Plan.
d)	Optional Life Insurance Amount of Coverage
The Optional Life Insurance Plan provides you with the opportunity to purchase additional amounts of life insurance, if you need it. This extra-coverage is available in units of $10,000 up to 8 times your base salary, maximum $500,000 and is payable to your beneficiary upon your death.
You may also purchasecoverageforyour spouse and your children. Coverage for your spouse may be obtained in units of $ 10,000 up to 5 0% of your own coverage, with evidence of good health. Coverage for children is $5,000 per child.
in the event of the death of one of your insured dependents, the amount of their coverage will be paid to you.
An employee who has purchased Paid-up insurance under the previous insuranceplan will be issued a statement indicating the value of their Paid-up Insurance as of June 1st, 1975, ardno further purchases of Paid-up Insurance will be made after such cfete.
80
APPENDIX <lB”	BENEFITS PLAN
3)	LIFE INSURANCECcont^d)
This amount of Paid-up insurancewill remain in force until the employee leaves Iftaft Canada Inc. or retires. At that time, the Paid-up insurance (providing the face amount is one hunched dollars ($100.00 or more) may be kept in force, or surrendered for its cash value. This cash value will never be less than the amount of the contributions the employee had made to the Paid-up InsurancePlan.
e)	General Provisions
Your basic life insurance coverage ratadrs in effect during an authorized leave of absence of one (i) month or less.
The basic life insurance continues fee of charge in the case of a lay c£f from work of 12 months or less. The optional coverage for the employee and its eligibledependents can be maintained in force for the same period as long as the employee pays the premiums in advance to the Company. If termination of coverage occurs and the employee wants reinstatement in the optionalplan, the insurance company would require satisfactory evidence m insurabilityfrom the employeeincluding eligible dependants.
LTD payments will not reduce the amount of life insurance in forcejust prior to the start of LTD benefits. Such Insurance will rareon in force for so long as eligibility to LTD benefits continues, but not beyond age sixty-five (65).
Ail term insurance coverage will stop atthe end of the month in which you leave Kraft Canada Inc., but if you die withinthe followingthirty-one (31) days, the full amountwill be paid. Also during this thirty-one (31) day period you convert all or part of your insurance, without medical examination, to an individual life insurance policy. This individual policy will be issued at the insurance company’s regular rates; it may be written on any regular Whole Life Insurance Plan and may, if desired, provide a preliminary period of up to one (1) year of tam insurance coverage.
When you die from any cause, the full amountof your Kraft Canada Inc. life insurance then in force will be payable to the beneficiary you name. You may specify that payment be made in a lump sum or in monthly instalments, or you may allow your beneficiary to make the choice, you may change the beneficiary designation zt any time in the manner provided by the Plan, subject to applicable Provincial Law. The beneficiary for the dependent insurance coverage wiH be employee in all cases. In those instances where both parents are employed at Kaft Canada Inc. and both are enrolled in the Life Insurance Plan, the employee claiming the child (ren) as dependents) for income tax purposes will be deemed to be the beneficiary.
81
APPENDIX “B"
BENEFITS PLAN
3) LIFE INSURANCE (cont’d)
f)	Cost of the Plan
The Optional Life in.«mrannp is paid for entirely by you. The cost of coverage for you and your spouse is based on the amount of insurance you select and on your respective ages:
Age
Less than 30 30-34 35-39 40-44 45-49 50-54 55-59 60-64
Monthly Premiums per
$1,000 of coverage
$0.05
$0.06
$0.08
$0.13
$0.19
$0.31
$0.49
$0.79
Dependent Children
The premium is $0.75 per month for $5,000 of insurance per dependent child. Regardless of number of childreninsured premium remains $0.75/month.
Note: Quebec employ eeswi II have die 9% sales tax added to tfeirpremiums as required by law.
g)	Definitions
Eligible dependantsinclude your spouse and your dependentchildren.
"Spouse" is defined as your legal orcommon-lawspouse. A common-law spouse is a person who has been living with you for at least one (1) year and is publicly presented as your spouse.
"Dependentchildren" are defined as your unmarried children who are:
. less than 19 years old and not in full-time employment;
. less than 25 years old if full-time students in an accredited institution for learning and chiefly dependent onyou for support andmaintenance;
. incapable of self-sustaining employment by reason of mental retardation or physical handicap, who are chiefly dependent upon you for maintenance and support, are residing in Canada ard who became so incapable before attaining age
19.
82
APPENDIX "B”	BENEFITS PLAN
3) LIFE INSURANCE (cont’d)
The term “child”includes any legally adopted child and any stepchild who is supported solely by you and permanently resides in your household, or for whom you are legally responsible for support and care.
4)	ACCIDENTAL-DEATH AND DISMEMBERMENT INSURANCE
The Optional AD&D plan offers a full 24-hr, all year long coverage against accidents occurring anywhere in the world, whether you are on or off thejob.
a)	Amount of Coverage
Under this plan, you may purchase accidental death and dismemberment coverage up to $500,000 in units of $10,000 for yourself You may also request coverage for your spouse of up to 50% ofyour own coverage, in units of$l 0,000. Each child may be insured for $5,000,
The full amount of insurance is payable if death is the result of an accident. In the event of accidental dismemberments and other physical losses, a percentage of the amount of insurance may be payable for example.
Accidental Loss	Percentage of coverage
(Partial list of indemnities)
Loss of life, both hands, both feet, the entire sight in both eyes, or any combination thereof
Loss of use of both ams or both bands
Loss of one am or leg
Loss of use of one aim or one leg
Loss of one hand, foot or sight in one eye
100%
100%
75%
75%
662/3%
in the event of your accidental death while insured, the amount of insurance will be paid to the beneficiary. All other indemnities are payable io you
83
APPENDIX “B”	BENEFITS PLAN
4)	ACCIDENTALDEATH AND DISMEMBERMENT INSURANCE (contid)
cost of Plan
Employee- $0,026* per month per $1,000 of insurance Spouse - $0,026* permonthper$l>000 ofinsurance
Dependent children - a fixed amount of $0,25* per month per child regardless of number of children covered
* plus applicabletaxes
Exclusions
The AD&D plan does not cover losses resulting from the following:
-	suicide or self-destruction, or any attempts by the insured person while sane or insane,
-	flying in any aircraft or other airborne vehicle as a pilot, operator or member of the crew,
-	declared or undeclared war or any act thereof,
-	active ftdl-timeservice in the armed forces of any country.
Definitions
Eligible dependants include your spouse and your dependent children.
11 Spouse" is defined as your legal or common-law spouse. A common-law spouse is a person who has been living with you for at least one (1) year and is publicly presented as your spouse.
"Dependentchildren" are defined as your unmarried children who are:
. less than 19 years old and not in full-time employment;
. less than 25 years old if full-time students in an accredited institution for learning and chiefly dependent on you for supportand maintenance;
. incapable of self-sustaining employment by reason of natal retardation or physical handicap, who are chiefly dependentupon you for maintenance and support, are residing in Canada and who became so incapable before attaining age 19.
The term "child" includes any legally adopted child and any stepchild who is supported solely by you and permanently resides in your household, or for whom you are legally responsible for support and care.
84
APPENDIX “B”	BENEFITS PLAN
5)	NON-OCCUPATIONALACCIDENT AND SICKNESSDISABIUTYPLAN
This plan is fully Company paid and applies to all employees (excluding probationary employees) who meet the eligibility conditions:
a)	Eligibility for B enefits
An employee eligible for benefits must be deemed incapable of performing normal work assignments required by the Company due to injury, illness, or accident, other than an occupational accident or sickness as per the laws governing Occupation Health and Safety aid Professional Diseases.
Benefits will be paid upon presentation of a doctor’s certificate with a medical diagnostic, attesting to the employee’s incapacity to accomplish his performing normal work assignments required by the Company.
in the event of reasonable and serious doubt of the existence of the saidcapacitythe Company at its choice and expense, required that the employee undergo a medical expertise,
The medical expertise must be carried out exclusively for the purpose of a medical certificate brought forward by the employee., for the justification of his absence and the later without cause may not refuse to t/iisexamination.
The employee must follow the instructions and treatment prescribed by his attending physician.
The employee suffering from an illness or an accident leading to an absence from work entitling him to benefits must advise his supervisor immediately.
b)	Benefits
Plan benefits are payable to eligible employees during a maximum benefit period of twenty-six (26) weeks per disability but not more than twenty-six (26) weeks in a calendar year, subjectto the followingconditions:
i)	Basic Benefits
An employee is credited with ten (10) days of Basic Benefits upon attainment of seniority and with ten (10) additicnal days on his employment anniversary in each subsequent year of continuous employment if employment is continuous, unused Basic Benefits may be accumulated up to a maximum of one hundred and thirty (130) days.
When disabled, an eligible employee will receive Basic Benefits of three-quarters(3/4) of his basic rate of pay, after a waiting period of two (2) scheduled work days, for as many days as he has to his credit or a minimum period of seventy-five (75) days per disability, as long as the disabilityis continued,
85
APPENDIX “B”	BENEFITS PLAN
5) NON-OCCUPAHONAL ACCIDENT AND SICKNESS DISABILITY PLAN (oont'd)
When an employee returns to work after an absence, the Basic Benefit period of seventyfive (75) days will be fully reinstated after the employee has been back at work for at least four (4) weeks.
If he is back at work for at least a four (4) week period, and is then absent, due to a disability not associated with the previous disability, the minimum period of seventy-five (75) days of Basic Benefits will apply.
If he is absent again due to the same or associated disabilitiesthat causedthe first absence and this second absence occurred before thirteen (13) weeks had elapsed since this initial absence, the disability will be considered to be the same disability, and the employee will resume Basic Benefits as if he had not returned to work.
Basic benefits are payable to employees after a waiting period of two (2) working days as per the regular schedule of employees on 5*2 and one working day (of 12 hours) as per the regular schedule of relay workers on 2-2-3. Further, if the ficstday following the waiting period is not a regularly scheduled working dayforthe employee, basic benefits will not begin util the employee ’ s next regularly scheduled working day.
There vM be no waiting period if the disability results from an accident, or from the day on which the employee is hospitalized. Further, if the employee is unable to work because of disability for five (5) working days beginning with the first regularly scheduledworking day of disability, Basic Benefits are payable retroactively for all regularly scheduledworking days in the waitingperiod, if such benefits have not been exhausted.
Should an employee leave work because of disability, the time so lost will count as the first day of the waiting period only in those instanceswhere he has worked one-half or less of his regular shifts.
ii)	SupplementalBenefits
After all Basic Benefits for which an employee is eligible have been paid, Supplemental Benefits amounting to 60% of his basic rate of pay are payable to the employee during the remainder of the twenty-six (26) week benefit period for the disability but not to exceed twenty-six (26) weeks in the calendar year.
86
APPENDIX “B:
BENEFITS PLAN
5) NON-OCCUPATIONAL ACCIDENT AND SICKNESSDISABILITYPLANfconfd)
c)	Discontinuance of Benefits
An employee, who after incurring disability, is discharged or would not have worked due to strike or suspension of employment is not eligible for Benefits after the day on which such event occurs.
In the event of a lay off, the employee who is already receiving disability benefits at the time the lay off occurs, continues to receive ihe disability benefits for the duration of his period of disability to amaximumof 15 weeks in total from the beginning of his period of disability.
d)	Employees Not Actively Employed
An employee who becomes disabledwhile on lay-off, leave of absence or vacation, or while on strike, suspension firm work or otherwise not actively employed, is not eligible for benefits during any such period. The employee will be eligible for benefits under this Plan on the first regular scheduled working day on which he would have returned to work but for the disability, and absence on such day will be deemed the first day of the waiting period for purposes of determining when benefits start.
e)	Part-timeEmploymentDue to Disability
An employee, who because of disability, is not able to work full regularly scheduled working days, may receive less than the full amount of daily benefits for which he is eligible. This provision only applies when the Company can provide part-time employment. Otherwise, suchemployees will receive the full amount of daily benefits.
If the employee is eligible for Basic Benefits, after any applicable waiting period, he will receive pay for all hours worked and Byrin Benefits for all hours not worked within the working day.
If the employee is not eligible for Basic Benefits, but is eligible for Supplemental Benefits, he will be paid for all hours worked, and 60% of his regular hourly rate for hours not worked within the working day. Each partial working day will be considered a full day for purposes of determining the maximum benefit period of twenty-six (26) weeks per disability or per calendar year.
87
APPENDIX “B”	BENEFITS PLAN
5) NON-OCCUPATIONAL ACCIDENT AND SICKNESSDISABIUTYPLAN (cont’d)
0 Exclusions
No payment will be made under the Plan with respect to absence from work due to the following reasons:
i)	Disability arising firm or in the course of employment by another employer, and where the employee had an employee/eraployer relationship with the other employer, and received remuneration for his services. Disability from work performed on an employee's own residence or property will not be considered "employmentby another employer".
ii)	Disability caused by or resulting from use of alcoholic beverages, stimulants, drugs or narcotics, unless the employee is participating in a Kraft Canadalnc. sponsored program toward rehabilitation,
iii)	Disability lEsultingfrom acts ofimmorality or fighting,
iv)	Disability occurring while an employee is violating a Company nile.
v)	Disability resulting firm a pregnancy related illness during:
a) a pregnancy leave of absence
b)	the period commencing with the tenth week prior to the expected week of confinement and ending with the sixth week of confinement.
g) Definitions
a)	Disability
"Disability" mEans the inability or incapacity to perform regular work assignments resulting fion sickness or accident not arising from, or in any way related to, the course of employment. Any disability arising out of or in the course of employment, which is compensable under CSST is not a disabilityunderthis Plan.
88
APPENDIX “B"	BENEFITS PLAN
5) NON-OCCUPATIONALACCIDENT/WP SICKNESS DISABIUTYPLAN front’d)
b)	Hospitalization
"Hospitalization"occurs when the employee is admitted to and confined in a duly constituted hospital as a bed patient for care and treatment of sickness, or hurt, injury or damage to the body as a result of an accident. At the discretion of the Company Doctor, an employee treated in the out-patient or emergency service or facilities of a hospital, without confinement as a bed patient, may be considered hospitalizedforpurposes of this Plan.
c)	in the case of surgery requiring local anaesthetic, that day of absence will be paid if justified by a medical certificate,
d)	Hourly Rate of Pay
The employee's basiciate cfpay (excludingshift premium).
6) LONGTERM DISABILITY: (LTD) a) Benefits
This plan is fully paid by the Company. Coverage commences upon completion of probationary paled and applies to all employees who have completed their probationary periods.
If you are unable to work after 26 weeks of disability, you may be eligible for benefits under the Long-Term Disability Plan.
LTD benefits may be paid up to two years if you are totally disabled and cannot perform the duties of your currentjob. If you continue to be totally disabled after two years and cannot perform the duties of ajob related to your skills and experience, payments will continue to the earliest of recovery, death or age 65.
This plan provides you with a monthly income equal to 61% of the monthly base salary you were receiving when you became disabled, up to a maximum benefit of $15,000 per month.
To be eligible for benefits, you must be under the care of a legally qualified physician at all times. Medical reports will be required periodically,
Benefits payable under this plan are consideredtaxable income.
89
APPENDIX "B"	BENEFITS PLAN
6)	LONG TERM DISABILITY: (LTD) (contM)
b)	Recurrence of Disability
If you become disabled for the same reason within six months of your return to full-time work after a long-term disability, the second disability period will be considered a continuation of the fnsL You will then immediately begin receiving your long-term disability benefits.
However, if the period exceeds six months or if the new disability is not related to the first, a new claim must be filed under the Short-Term DisabilityPlan.
c)	RehabilitativeEmployment
As an incentive to promote an early return to gainful employment after a total disability, you may perform certain work without forfeiting the benefits payable under the LTD plan.
If you engage in an approved rehabilitative employmentprogram, you TaLEL be entitled to receive your long-term disability benefits over and above the employment income payable from the program.
The rehabilitation benefits may be paid for a maximum period of 24 months during which your income fem all sources must not exceed your gross earnings st the time you became disabled.
Should disability prevent you from continuing with the program, your regular disability benefits will continue to be paid.
d)	Coordinationwith Other Sources of income
Long-Term Disability Benefits are reduced by disability benefits payable from CSST, the Quebec/Canada Pension Plan (excluding any payments for your dependent children) and by any other income from employmentor other government plans.
e)	Continuation ofOther Employee Benefits during Disability
While you are receiving Long-TermDisability benefits, you and your dependents rerain covered under all Haft C^nadalnc. plans, exceptforthe Optional AD&D Insurance 0H1 andtheNon-OccupationalAccidentand Short-Term DisabilityPlan.
90
APPENDIX “B”	BENEFITS PLAN
6) LONGTERM DISABILITY: (LTD) (cont’d)
Seniority will continue to accumulate for as long as LTD benefits are paid.
Effective May 21, 1995, while you are receiving Long-Term Disability benefits, Kraft Canada Inc. will assume the entire cost of your contributions into the company retirement plan.
f)	Exclusions
No Long-Term Disability benefits are payable for:
A disability for which you are not treated on a continuous basis by a duly qualified physician. If you are treated by a chiropractitionner, a nedioaL leave of absence in excess of 2 weeks must be justified by a medical certificate signed by a medical doctor. If the sickness is due to a mental or emotional disorder, you rtist be receiving continuing treatment by a physician who is certified in psychiatry.
A disability for which you may be entitledto iirterimte/ in accordance with the provisions of a C$$T compensation plan, the Quebec/Canada Pension Plan, a provincial auto insurance plan or a group benefit plan.
A disability caused by or resulting from a self-infiected injury or illness.
A disability caused by or resulting from alcoholism or drug addiction, unless you are treated for the problem on a continuous basis by a duly qualified physician, or are being treated throughthe Employee Assistance Program.
A disability caused by or resulting from participation in a criminal act or any act of war, declared or not.
A disability resulting fizDn injur/sustained while engaged in anemploymentforwage or profit during any period for which benefits are claimed under the plans.
91
APPENDIX “B”_______________________________________________________________BENEFITS PLAN
7)	RETIREMENTPLAN
a)	Eligibility
The employee hired before November 1st, 1994 has the right to join this retirement pian on the first day of the month after obtaining one year‘s seniority, or earlier, as requested by law.
Every employee hired after November 1, 1994, must, as a condition of employment, participate in the retirement plan. He is automatically enrolled to this plan on the first day of tire month after obtaining one year’s seniority, or sooner if required by law.
Once you become eligible, you may join by completing an enrolment form authorizing Kraft Canada Inc, to make payroll deductionsand naming a beneficiary.
b)	Benefit Formula
i)	Normal Retirement
Normal retirement is the first day of the month following attainment of age sixty-five (65).
For retirement taken as of June 1, 2002, the monthly pension you will receive subjectto sestimd) will be calculatedas faUcws:
Forty-nine dollars ($49) per ncnth for each year of credited service.
ii)	Early Retirement
Youmay retire on thefirst of any month after your fifty-fifth (55th) birthday.
For retirement taken as of June 1, 2002, the monthly pension you will receive subjectto saztdaid) will be calculatedas follows:
Forty-nine dollars ($49) per month for each year of credited service.
leas: 3% for each year of early retirement before ages/xty (60).
in a±itim, if you retire early while still an employee, a supplemental benefit of one hundred and fifty dollars ($150) per year of credited sendee, (maxirrurnthirty-five (35) years) V/ill be payable until age sixty-five (65).
92
APPENDIX “B”	BENEFITS PLAN
7)	RETIREMENT PLAN (coat’d)
iii)	Deferred Retirement
An employee may elect to continue to work beyond the normal retirement date, but in any event shall retire, or be deemed to have retired for purposes of the Plan, on the fiist day of any subsequent month not later than the first (1st) day of the month immediatelyprior to his 71 st birthday.
An employee may elect to continue making contributions to the Plan during the deferred period in accordancewithc),
For retirements taken as of June 1, 2002, an employee who defers his retirement shall be entitled to receive a monthly pension calculated in accordance with the Plan documentand Sectiond) and not less than:
Forty-nine dollars ($49) per month for each year of credited service.
Note 1:	Credited service means continuous service to the date you retire less periods for which you
made no contributions while eligible to participate in this or predecessor plans or for which you withdrew contributions, Fliriher, no credit will be given for periods of military service if contributions arenot made upon return to active employment
For a regular employee who is hired on or after January I, 1988, the service prior to becoming a member of the Plan shall not be included in the computationof credited service.
Note2:	The Quebec Pension Plan (QPP) and the Old Age Security(OAS) pensions are in additionto
your Kraft Canada Inc, Pension.
93
APPENDIX “B”	BENEFITS PLAN
7) RETIREMENT PLAN (cont’d)
c)	Employee Contributions
The monthly contribution is established at one hundred and one dollars ($ 101.),
d)	Spouse’s Benefit
This benefit provides the surviving spouse with 60% of the monthly pension paid to the retired employee for as long as the spouse remains alive.
The Company agrees that, for retirements taken as of June 2002, the maximum reduction of 10% concerning the payment method providing a pension for the surviving spouse is to be eliminated. However, the Company reserves the unilateral right to impose this reduction with respect to the pension payable as future services only when it is paid in the form of a pension to a surviving spouse or any other optional payment method, in the event that Kraft Canada Inc. adopts such a modification for its non-unionized hourly employees in exchange for improving the plan.
Also, different options will be offered to you, such as: guaranteed life annuity and revertible pension income. The reduction of your pension will then be calculated according to the option elected.
e)	Death Benefit
i)	Shouldyou die before retirement and before the cfete of your normal retirement, your beneficiary will receive a death benefit equal to the sum ofthe following:
1) The total amount of your contributions to December 31, 1986 plus compound interestto date of payment
2)	The commuted value of the retirement income earned for service on and after January 1,1987 togetherwith the additional retirement income granted on and after January 1,1988 for service prior to 1987.
3)	The excess, if any, of the total amount of your contributions made after 1986 plus compound interest over 50% ofthe camutedvalue in paragraph 2).
ii)	Should death occur after your normal retirement date but before your deferred retirement date, and the Spouse'sBenefit is in effect, you shall be deemed to have retired on the day preceding death for purposes of calculating the amount of the benefit settlement.
94
APPENDIX “B”
BENEFITS PLAN
7)	RETIREMENT PLAN (cont’d)
iii)	Shoulddeathoccur after retirement but before receiving your total contributions plus compound interest, and the Spouse's Benefit is not in effect, your beneficiary will receive the difference.
f) General Provisions
i)	You become entitled to a pension benefit under the plan after ten (10) years' continuous service for benefits earned prior to January 1, 1987 and/or after two (2) years' plan membership for benefits earned after January 1, 1987,
Contributions which are made after January 1, 1987 are locked-in (not refundable in cash) after two (2J years' plan membership. Contributions made between January 1, 1966 and January 1, 1987 are locked in at age forty-five (45) and tei (10) or more years continuous service.
ii)	If you leave Kraft Canada Inc. any plan contributions, which are not vested, as described in i), will be refunded to you with compound interest. Such refunds ranaineligible for transfer to anRRSP without locking-in provisions.
If you are vested, you may leave your money in the plan and receive retirement income or transfer the value from the pian as outlined in vii) which describes the portability provisions.
If you do not transfer your money from the plan, as outlined in vii) you will receive retirement income at normal or early retirement date equal to the amount calculated ± the time you leave, if you elect to have your retirement income begin before age sixty (60), the reductionfor early retirement will apply.
Any time after you leave, but before your retirement income starts, you can request that the value of your pension be transferred under the portability provisions. If you do, all your rights to benefits under th e Plan are cancelled.
95
APPENDIX “B”	BENEFITS PLAN
7)	RETIREMENT PLAN (cont’d)
iii)	If you are absent on layoff for more than twenty-six (26) weeks, leave of absence, injury or illness, or any other reason and your pay stops, contributions will not resume until you return to work. In case of absences due to Military Service, Workers’sCompensation or Long Tatm Disability or during the first twenty-six (26) weeks of lay off,missed contributions may be paid into the Plan on your return to work. Contributions shall be remitted once a month by employees on Workers’ Compensation and Long Term Disability. However, a payment made under the Job Security Plan will qualify for employee contributions and credited service under this plan.
iv)	You may change your beneficiary subject to provincial legislation at any time by notifying the Pension Board through your local personnel representative. This is your responsibility.
v)	To permit an employee to take advantage of this tax concession and provide greater retirement income, the Plan allows for voluntary contributions. A participant age twenty-one (21) or over and enrolled in the Retirement Plan is thus eligible to contribute additional funds through regular payroll deductions. The minimum contribution is ten dollars ($10.00) per month, and the employee has a choice of three funds (common stock, fixed funds and guaranteed deposits) in which these contributionsare invested and administeredby the Royal Trust Company.
In addition to regular payroll deductions,two lump sum contributions of fifty dollars ($50.00) or more may be made by payroll deduction on two (2) specified dates each year.
There is no Company Contributions to this section of the Plan; however, the Company assumes all administrativeand brokerage costs.
vi)	“Surviving spouse’’ means the person who, at the earlier of your death or the
commencement of your monthly pension meets one of the following eligibility requirements:
1)	The person who is your lawfully wedded husband or wife: or
2)	ff you do not have a lawfully wedded husband or wife, the person of the opposite sex who has been residing with you in a conjugal relationship, whether continuously for at least one (1) year, or in a relationship of some permanence if you and the other person are the natural or adoptive parents of a child.
96
APPENDIX “B”
BENEFITS PLAN
7)	RETIREMENT PLAN (cont’d)
However, not more than one (1) person can be a surviving spouse. In the event of more than one (1) person claiming to be such Kraft Canada Inc. will determine, based on evidence available that Haft Canada Inc. considers to be sufficient, as to which person shall be designated a surviving spouse for the purpose of the Plan. KraftCanada Inc, decision in this regard shall be firalandbinding.
Mi) If you terminate your employment on or after January 1,1988 and you are entitled to a monthly pension as described in the preceding paragraphs, you may direct the commuted value of your pension be transferred to another registered pension plan (subject to pian provisions) or a lock-in registered retirement savingsplan.
viii) The cost of vested benefits earned for service commencing January 1, 1987, plus additional retirement income granted on or after January 1, 1988 for service prior to 1987 nust be ai least 50% employer paid. Any excess employer contributions will be refunded upon retirement, termination, or death prior to retirement.
8)	THE PENSION COMMITTEE
The pension committee for the LaSalle plant is comprised of two (2) representatives, one (1) an active employee/member of the pension plan and one (1) a member of the LaSalle retirees, and five © representatives of Kraft Canada Inc, and one (1) independent representative that is neither an active employee nor a retiree of the LaSalle plant. The durationof the mandate of the pension committee members is three (3) years,
The role of the pension committee is to facilitate the exchange of information between the representatives of Kraft Canada Inc. and the LaSalle participants relative to the administration and the financial status of the pension plantto the extentwhere it concerns LaSalle participants.
The pension committee meets at least two (2) times during a civil calendaryear.
The pension committee meets at least once (1) per year with the Haft Canada Manager responsible for the administration of the pension plan.
The committee will summon a yearly meeting with all participants in order to convey information on any major modification brought forth on the plan provisions during the year; management and investment of the plan; financial statements of the plan relative to the administration and the financial status ofthe pension plan to the extentwhere it concerns LaSalle employees.
97
APPENDIX “B”	BENEFITS PLAN
9) KRAFT SAVINGS PROGRAM (ESP/RSP)	
An employee may contribute to the Kraft Savings Program (ESP/RSP) up to a maximum of 6% of his trages including overtime pay. Kraft Canada Inc. contributions are equivalent to 40% of the employee's contribution effective December]., 2002.
98
APPENDIX "C"
REVISION PROCESS OF JOB DESCRIPTION
When an employee, a supervisor or a union steward wishes to bring modifications to a job description, he must submit his request to Johanne Robert, coordinator, Human Resources. Together they take note of the changes to bring to the targetedjob description.
1) Request for modificationson ajob description
An employee and/or a supervisor and/or a union steward with the H.R. coordinatormay submit a request for modifications on ajob description.
2) Consultation
The H.R, coordinator will note and evaluate the requested changes in consultation with other incumbents of the identifiedjob and with the supervisor or other concerned employees.
3)	Writing of the revision
The H.R. coordinator will write the revision of the job description and will submit to the supervisor and union steward for validation.
4)	Validation
TheH.R, coordinator vail validate the changes with the following persons:
" the person who requested the change “	2 or3 incumbentsofthejob
"	the supervisor of thejob
■	the union steward appointed by the Union
5)	Final approval
The revisedjob descriptionis then forwardedfor final approval to the followingpersons:
-	H.R. Manager
•	Department Manager
•	Union President
NOTE: H.R. Manager and Union President together will evaluate if the revisions made to thejob description justify the pertinence of a revaluation by the external expert firm, if yes, the job description will be submittedto the external Cam for reevaluation.
6)	Issuance
The revisedjob description is then issued and replaces the previous in thejob description binder. A binder is also given to the union.
Letter of Agreement
between
the United Food and Commercial Workers International Union, local 766P
and
Kraft Canada Inc.
For its plant in LaSalle, Quebec
RE: Posting concerning the right to refuse in production areas
Kraft Canada Inc agrees to post, in the production areas, the legal articles concerning the right to refuseto do watk as a result of health and safety issues.
100
Letter of Agreement
between
the United Food and Commercial Workers
International Urrim,
Local 766P
and
Kraft canadalnc,
For Its plant in LaSalle, Quebec
RE: Temporary, one-year position -"Prism Line Monitoring.’
The pertinence of the above position, which is currently held by an employee on a temporary basis, will bere-evaluatedby Kraft Canadalnc. m June 2003, If, at that time, the time spent on PRISM is 40 hours or more per week, this position will be posted and priority will be given to the employee who already holds this position.
101
Letter of Agreement
between
the United Food and Commercial Workers International Union,
Local 766P
and
OBJECT: Premium for Medical Plan
Should the contract for the Kraft Canada Inc. medical plan be renewed (March 1st, 2003) and the premium increased, Kraft Canda Inc., will pay the difference up to twice the premium paid by the employee from the moment it goes into effect and up to Deoatfaer 31, 2003.
102