COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
BORDEN CATELLI, DIVISION OF BORDEN COMPANY LIMITED
(hereinafter called «THE COMPANY»)
AND
BAKERY CONFECTIONERY AND TOBACCO WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION
A.F.L. - C.I.O. - C.L.C. - Q.F.L.
LOCAL 227
(hereinafter called «THE UNION»)
NOW THEREFORE THE COMPANY AND THE UNION ACTING BY AND THROUGH THEIR DULY AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVES, DO HEREBY AGREE AS FOLLOWS:
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ARTICLE 1 Purpose of Agreement
ARTICLE 2 Recognition ...........
ARTICLE 3 Complete Agreement
and Saving Clause , . ,
Management Rights.. .
union security......
Union stewards......
Grievance and arbitration procedures
seniority...........
Job posting ........
Health and Safety.,
No strike no lock-out Bulletin Board ......
Uniforms ...........
Authorized leaves...
Bargaining unit work Bereavement leave . , .
Benefit pians ......
General ............
Hours of work and overtime
Paid holidays ..........
Annual leave with pay . . ,
Job classifications and hourly rates Duration of the agreement...........
ARTICLE ARTICLE ARTICLE ARTICLE ARTICLE ARTICLE ARTICLE 10 ARTICLE 11 ARTICLE 12 ARTICLE 13 ARTICLE 14 ARTICLE 15 ARTICLE 16 ARTICLE 17 ARTICLE 18 ARTICLE 13 ARTICLE 20 ARTICLE 21 ARTICLE 22 ARTICLE 23 LETTER OP UNDERSTANDING
Page
. 1
. 1
, 2 . 3 . 4 . 5 . 3 10 15 18
19
20 20 21 22 22 23 26 27 31 33 36 39
1.01
1.02
2.01
ARTICLE 1
PURPOSE OF AGREEMENT
This Agreement is entered into by the parties hereto in order to provide for orderly collective bargaining relations between the Company and those employees who come within the Bargaining Unit, as certified under the Accreditation Certificate No. AM9007S052.
It is the desire of all parties to co-operate in maintaining a harmonious relationship between the Company and its employees, and to provide an amicable method of settling any differences or grievance having to do with the interpretation or violation of this Agreement. Furthermore, it is the essence of this Agreement that there shall be a maximum of co-operation between the Company and its employees to improve efficiency and expand the operations of the Company and the parties hereto pledge their full support and co-operation in this regard.
ARTICLE 2 RECOGNITION
The Company recognizes the Union as the sole and exclusive Bargaining Agent for the purpose of establishing rates of pay, job classifications, hours of work and other conditions of employment for all employees of the Company at $$90 Notre-Dame Street East, Montreal, Quebec, save and except assistant foreman, persons occupying a position above the rank of assistant foreman, office employees, watchmen, nurses and all other employees excluded by reason of the Laws of the Province of Quebec.
1
2,02	There will be no discrimination, intimidation,
interference, constraint or coercion exercised or practiced by the Company or its representatives against any employee as a result of his adhesion to the Union or his relations with the latter.
2,03	There will be no discrimination, intimidation,
interference, constraint or coercion exercised by the Union or one of any members whomsoever against any employee of the Company.
ARTICLE 3
COMPLETE AGREEMENT AND SAVING CLAUSE
3.01	It is the intent of the parties hereto that the provisions of this Agreement will supersede all prior agreements and understandings, oral or written, expressed or implied, between such parties; shall govern their entire relationship and shall be the sole source of any and all rights or claims which either party may assert against the other. All prior agreements and understandings are void and of no force and effect.
The provisions of this Agreement can be amended, supplemented, rescinded or otherwise altered only by mutual agreement in writing hereafter signed by the parties hereto.
3.02	Should any part hereof or any provision herein contained be rendered or declared invalid by reason of any existing or subsequently enacted legislation or any decree of a court of competent jurisdiction, such invalidation of such part or portion of this Agreement shall not invalidate the remaining portion hereof, and they shall remain in full force and effect.
2
ARTICLE 4
MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
4 >01 The Union acknowledges that it is the exclusive function of the Company to:
(a) hire, discharge, direct, classify, transfer, promote, demote, suspend, lay-off, recall and otherwise discipline employees, provided that a claim by an employee who has acquired seniority that he has been discharged or disciplined without reasonable cause may be the subject of a grievance under this Agreement;
(b) generally manage the industrial enterprise in which the Company is engaged at its sole and absolute discretion and, without restricting the generality of the foregoing; to maintain order, discipline and efficiency; determine the products to be manufactured; methods of manufacturing; schedules of production and distribution; kinds and locations of machines and tools to be used: processes of manufacturing; the engineering and designing of its products; the control of materials and parts to be incorporated in the products produced; the extension, limitation, curtailment or cessation of operations; establish and amend as necessary Plant rules and regulations, and all other matters concerning the operation of the Company's business not specifically dealt with elsewhere in this Agreement;
3
(C)
4,02
5,01
5,02
In the event of a permanent limitation, curtailment or cessation of operations, the Company will endeavor to advise the Union in advance and discuss possible alternatives which may be acceptable to both parties.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, it is understood and agreed that the Company has the right to employ temporary employees for vacation relief, and that such temporary employees will not be continuously employed for a period in excess of four (4) calendar months or six hundred and forty (640) hours worked. Temporary employees will not be employed to displace permanent employees or when permanent employees are on lay-off.
Temporary employees shall not acquire seniority under this Agreement until they are awarded a permanent position covered by this Agreement.
ARTICLE 5 ONION SECURITY
The Company agrees to deduct from earned wages of employees regular weekly dues as prescribed by the By-laws of Local 227 and certified to the Company in writing. Dues deducted shall be remitted to the Financial Secretary of Local 227 no later Chan the third week of each month.
As a condition of employment, all employees, including probationary employees shall pay regular weekly dues for the duration of the Agreement.
4
•5,03 Upon completion of the probationary period, all new employees shall become members of the Union and shall pay by payroll deduction the initiation fees as prescribed by the By-laws of Local 227 and certified to the Company in writing.
5,04	It is understood that the Union has no involvment in the hiring of new employees and any employee who does not satisfy the reguirements of Article 5 will not be discharged unless by mutual agreement.
5,05	The Union shall indemnify and save the Company
harmless from all claims, demands, suits or other forms of liability that may arise out of or by reason of action taken by the Company under this article.
ARTICLE 6 UNION STEWARDS
5.01	The Company recognizes the right of the Union to designate stewards. For the term of this Agreement there will be no more than five (5) Union stewards plus the President and Vice-president who shall, at the time of their election or appointment, have at least twelve (12) months of continuous service with the Company. The selection of the stewards is the function of the Union and the Union must notify the Company in writing of the names of the stewards before the Company will recognize them.
5.02	The stewards shall not leave their work stations without prior permission of their supervisors, such permissions may be delayed based on immediate
5
work requirements and then only for such activities as are specifically provided for in this Agreement.
5,03	For the purposes of negotiations, the Company will recognize the Union's negotiating committee, composed of the Local President and Vice-president and five (5) stewards. During contract negotiations, the negotiating committee shall be relieved from their normal duties and shall be paid their regular straight time hourly rate for time absent from work attending meetings with representatives of the Company up to and including conciliation meetings.
5,04	The Union representative shall have access to the Company premises at any reasonable time to see that the Agreement is being complied with after first obtaining permission from the Plant Manager, provided such visit does not interfere with plant operations.
5.05	It is understood and agreed that the Local President and Vice-president shall be assigned to work on the day shift only as general labour and shall maintain their former classified rates and the right to return to their former classification at the conclusion of their term of office.
5.05	At the beginning of each month, the Company will furnish the President with a list of new hires and terminations which occurred during the prior month.
5,07 It is understood and agreed that an authorized
leave of absence without pay may be granted by the Company to union officials and Department Stewards for the purposes of attending official outside
6
union functions. Such leave will be granted
provided:
-	the leave does not interfere with the requirements of the Company;
-	the request for the leave is submitted to the personnel office, in writing, at least two (2) weeks in advance of the leave;
-	such leave will be granted to not more than seven (7) employees in any calendar year;
-	no more than two (2) employees will be granted leave at the same time;
-	such leave shall not exceed one (1) week in duration per employee.
6,0$ It is agreed that there shall be at least one (1) meeting every two (2) months between the Union convnittea and designated company representatives. The Union committee shall consist of the President and the Vice-president, the International Representative, and three (3) of the five (5) stewards set forth in article 6,01. Attendance at such meetings will be without loss of pay.
The purpose of such Labour/Managament meetings will be to review and discuss problems of mutual interest which may not be appropriate under the grievance procedure. Such meetings will not extend beyond two (2) hours duration and agendas will be exchanged at least one (1) week prior to the date of the meeting.
7
ARTICLE 7
GRIEVANCE AND ARBITRATION PROCEDURES
7,01	A grievance may arise only from a dispute concerning the interpretation, application, administration or alleged violation pf this Collective Agreement. A grievance will be submitted in the following manner:
Step 1
The employee shall take up the grievance in writing, directly with the Departement Manager and the foreman, accompanied by the steward. The Department Manager or his designated representative shall give his answer in writing to the grievor not later than the fourth (4th) work day following the day upon which he received the grievance.
Step 2
If the decision of the Department Manager or his designated representative is not acceptable to the employee, it shall be submitted to the Plant Manager within four (4) work days from the receipt of the Departement Manager's or his designated representative's decision in Step 1. The Plant Manager shall arrange a meeting with the Grievor and the steward within five (5) work days and the Plant Manager shall give his answer in writing within seven (7) work days following the date of the meeting. The President or the Vice President of Local 227 shall be present at this meeting.
S.tep.3,
In the event that arbitration of a grievance is desired by either party, then the other party shall be notified in writing not later than twenty
8
(20) calendar days after the &te of issuance of the answer in Step 2. The Arbitrator shall be selected by mutual agreement between the parties. If the parties fail to agree on an Arbitrator, the Minister of Labour upon the request of either party shall appoint an impartial Arbitrator.
After the Arbitrator has been selected or appointed, he shall meet with the parties, hear evidence and render a decision. The decision shall be final and binding upon the parties and upon any employee affected by it.
7,02	The Arbitrator shall have no jurisdiction or authority to:
(a)	add to, subtract from, modify or in any way change the provisions of this Agreement;
(b)	establish new wage schedules or change existing wage schedules or wages for specific job classification;
(c)	determine standards of production or assume any other responsibility of Management.
7.03	Each party shall bear its cwn costs and the fees and expenses of witnesses called by it and of its own representatives. The fees and expenses of the arbitrator shall be shared equally by the parties.
7.04	No grievance shall be considered if the alleged
circumstances of the grievance occurred more than twenty (20) calendar days prior to the submission of the grievance. If a grievance is not processed within the time limits as set forth in all the provisions of this Article, then the grievance will be considered to have been abandoned.
9
It is understood that the grievor shall have up to twenty (20) calendar days from the date of receipt of the disciplinary notice to submit a grievance under this article. It is further understood that the grievance must be signed by the grievor and shall state the specific article (s) allegedly violated.
7.05	Any time limit required according to the provisions of this Article may be extended by mutual agreement between the Company and the Union.
7.06	Management Grievances - It is understood that the management may bring forward at any meeting held with the Union any complaint with respect to the conduct of the Union, its officers, or any employee, and that i f such complaint by management is not settled to the mutual satisfaction of the conferring parties, it may be treated as a grievance and referred to arbitration in the same way as the grievance of an employee.
7.07	It is understood and agreed that the Union may file a group or policy grievance commencing at Step 2.
ARTICLE 8 SENIORITY
8.01	S eniority is defined as continuous service with the Company within the bargaining unit. For purposes of applying seniority, department seniority shall be recognized as follows:
1.	Pasta Department
- 10
2,	Canning Department
3,	Distribution Department
4,	Quality Control Department
5,	Maintenance Department
8,02	A seniority list shall be posted in the Plant, and updated at least every three (3) months, and a copy is remitted to the President of the Union.
The seniority list shall include the employee's name, date of employment, department and payroll number.
8,03	Until an employee has completed an accumulated
probationary period of fifty (50) days of work or four hundred (400) hours worked or seventy (70) days or five hundred and sixty (560) hours for a maintenance employee, whichever first occurs, he shall have no seniority rights, and shall be subject to transfer, demotion, lay-off or discharge at the sole discretion of the Company and without recourse to the grievance and arbitration procedures of this Agreement. Upon satisfactory completion of the probationary period an employee will then acquire seniority standing dating from the date he commenced his current period of employment with the Company.
8,04	Whenever it becomes necessary to reduce the number of employees in any of the departments mentioned above, the employee having the least seniority in the department shall be the first removed provided that the remaining employees have the necessary immediate qualifications and skill to perform the work.
11
8.05
(a)	When the period of lay-off is for twenty (20) work days or less, the affected employee(s) shall have the right to displace a more junior employee (s) in the bargaining unit within the group affected by the displacement excluding the personnel in Quality Control and key jobs in Maintenance, provided the employee(s) possess the immediate skill and gualifications to perform the work.
(b)	When the period of lay-off is for more than twenty
(20) work days, the affected employee (s) shall have the right to displace a more junior employee(s) in the bargaining unit within the group affected by the displacement, provided the employee is capable of acquiring the necessary skill and qualifactions within a trial period of up to five (5) days, and further provided the work to be peformed requires less than five (5) days training.
(c)	If an employee is laid-off in accordance with Article 3.05(a), and the lay-off exceeds twenty
(20) work days, the employee may then exercise his rights under Article 8.05(b).
(d)	Notwithstanding provisions of article 8.04, in the event of a permanent lay-off in the Maintenance Department, the affected employee shall have the right to displace the least senior employee in the same level of qualification. The displaced employee shall have the right to bump out the least senior employee in the Bargaining Unit provided he has the immediate qualifications to perform the job.
(e)	Notwithstanding provisions of article 3.04, in the event of a permanent lay-off in the Quality Control Department, the affected employee shall
12
have the right to displace the least senior employee in the same level of classification. The displaced employee shall then have the right to bump out the least senior employee in the Department provided he has the required qualifications to perform the work. The subsequently displaced employee shall have the right to bump out the least senior employee in the bargaining unit provided he has the immediate qualifications to perform the work.
(f)	In the event of a reduction of employees in the
following classifications: Condensed Milk Process Operator or Condensed Milk Process Cleaners, Maintenance and Lab Technicians, they can elect to go on lay-off, rather than exercise their bumping right in the plant.
8.06	hfo new employees shall be hired as long as there
are employees on lay-off who possess the necessary qualifications and the capacity of acquiring the necessary skill to perform the work.
8.07	An employee's seniority shall be cancelled and his employment shall be terminated for any of the following reasons:
(a)	if the employee quits;
(b)	if the employee is discharged and such discharge is not reversed through the grievance procedure;
(c)	if the employee has been laid off and fails to
return to work within three (3) working days after he has been notified by the Company to do so by telephone, telegram, or through registered mail addressed to the last address on record with the Company. In the event the employee is notified by
13
<d>
(e)
(f)
(g)
(h) 8.08
either a telegram or a registered letter, a copy of the notification shall be supplied to the President.
i f the employee overstays a leave of absence granted by the Company without securing an extension of such leave;
if the employee has been laid off for a period in excess of the following schedule without being recalled to work by the Company:
Service
(i)	Up to 3 year 12 months;
(ii)	Over 3 years 24 months;
if the employee is retired under the terms of any Retirement Plan to which the Company has contributed;
if the employee fails to notify the Company of absence for two (2) consecutive days;
if the employee is absent due to an occupational accident for a period in excess of twenty-four (24) consecutive months.
Temporary assignments may be made to cover needs such as vacancies due to periods of disability, vacations, emergencies, sudden increases or decreases in volume and similar absences or manpower needs without regard to the seniority provisions of this Agreement. When an employee is temporarily assigned to a higher paid classification, he shall be paid the rate of the higher classified job to which he has been assigned, provided he works in the higher classified job for two (2) or more hours. When an employee is temporarily transferred to a lower paid classifi — cation, he shall continue to be paid his higher classified rate.
14
8.09 It is each employee's responsibility to ensure that the Company is promptly notified of any change of address or telephone number.
3,10 It is agreed that employees who have the same date of employment shall be listed on the seniority list in alphabetical order. A subsequent change of name will not affect this provision.
3,H In the event of a recall to work, employees will
be recalled in reverse order of seniority provided they are able to perform the assigned work pursuant to Articles 8.05(a) or (b), depending on the length of the lay-off.
3.12 The promotion or transfer of employees to or from positions outside of the bargaining unit shall be at management's sole discretion, subject to the following conditions:
(a)	subsequent to the effective date of this Agreement, an employee who is promoted to a position outside of the bargaining unit may elect to return to the bargaining unit, provided such election is exercised within the six (6) month period immediately following the date of promotion. In such instance, the employee will be returned to the General Labour classification with full seniority and shall be required to remit the regular union dues for the period outside of the bargaining unit upon returning to the bargaining unit.
(b)	an employee who was promoted out of the bargaining unit prior to December 31, 1988, if transferred by the Company back to a General Labour position within the bargaining unit, shall retain all accumulated service for positioning on the seniority list.
15
9.01
(a) If it becomes necessary for the Company to fill a permanent vacancy, then notice of such vacancy shall be posted on the bulletin board for four (4) calendar days thereby providing an opportunity for employees to apply in writing for the vacancy in question. If the work to be performed in the vacancy requires ten (10) days or less to acquire the necessary skills and qualifications to perform the work, the vacancy will be awarded to the applicant with the most seniority. If the work to be performed in the vacancy requires more than ten (10) days of traininq, then where the qualifications and skills to immediately fill the job are relatively equal among applicants, the applicant with the greatest seniority shall be given preference, but if no applicant is qualified to perform the work, then the Company may fill the position as it deems fit. Only the oriqinal vacancy and the first subsequent vacancy shall be posted. Any vacancies resultinq from the first two postings shall be filled at the discretion of the Company.
(b) The posting of a vacancy in the General Labour
classification shall be at the discretion of the company.
9,02	The Company may fill such a vacancy at its
discretion until a selection has been made. Once placed in the position, the selected applicant shall be on probation for a period of twenty (20) work days, and if during the said period he is
16
judged unsatisfactory, he shall be removed from the position and returned to his former position. The vacant position is then reposted.
9.03	No employee shall be permitted to successfully bid on a job vacancy under this Article more than once in any period of six (6) consecutive months.
9.04	Any employee refusing to accept an award after
bidding shall loose his bidding rights for six (6) months thereafter.
9.05	Lead Hands will be appointed at the sole
discretion of the Company, and such appointments shall not be subject to the Job Posting and Seniority provision of this Agreement. In addition to their assigned duties, Lead Hands shall be responsible for assigning and directing the work of employees in their area of jurisdiction, but shall have no authority or responsibility for imposing any form of discipline.
9.06	In the event a new job classification is created during the term of the Collective Agreement, the Company shall establish the appropriate wage rate in relation to classified jobs of a similar nature. In the event of a dispute regarding the rate, the dispute will be held in abeyance for resolution during the next contract negotiations. If a revised rate is subsequently negotiated, the revised rate will be implemented retroactive to the date on which the new classification was created.
9.07	In the event the Company initiates an employee training program to prepare a limited number of
17
employees for advancement within a specific department or job classification, the Company will endeavour to equalize the training period among the selected employees in order of seniority. The extent and duration of the training as well as the number of participants shall be at the Company's sole discretion.
9.08	An employee's disciplinary file shall be expurged of all minor disciplinary notations (oral and written warnings) after a period of eighteen (IS) months provided there are no subsequent notations. Major disciplinary notations shall be expurged after twenty-four (24) months provided there have been no subsequent minor or major notations.
ARTICLE 10 HEALTH & SAFETY
10.01	The Company continues to take the measures for the health and safety of its employees at the work place. Protection equipment and other pieces of equipment judged necessary by the Company so as to adequately protect the employees against accidents are furnished by the Company and must be used.
The articles necessary for first aid are at the disposal of the employees at all times in the plant when the employees are at work. These provisions are in conformity with an Act Respecting Health and Safety at Work.
10.02	If an employee is sent home by the Company as a result of an industrial accident, he is paid for the balance of the shift on which he works at the time he is sent home. If an employee as a result of a work accident at the plant, is obliged to
18
leave work to go to the hospital for the purposes of X-rays or to receive treatment for which he does not receive any compensation under an Act Respecting Health and Safety at Work, the Company will then compensate the employee for the loss of time required, upon presentation of a medical certificate.
10.03	A maximum allowance of fifty-seven dollars
{$ 57.00) effective January 1, 1994, sixty dollars {$ 60.00) effective January 1, 1995 and sixty-five ($ 65.00) effective Janaury 1, 1996 per employee shall be paid towards the cost of approved safety footwear which must be worn as required on Company premises. New employees will become eligible for the annual allowance on completion of their probationary period. Proof of purchase must be submitted to the Company.
10.04	Safety glasses;
(a)	Safety glasses are available under the «Catalli» program.
(b)	For the duration of the present Collective Agreement, the Company pays maximum amount of Twenty-Five Dollars ($ 25.00) per year so as to assist employees in paying the costs of repairing their safety glasses.
ARTICLE 11
NO STRIKE NO LOCK-OUT
11.01	As long as this Collective Agreement is in effect, the Company will not cause nor direct any lock-out against its employees and the Union does not cause nor direct any work slowdown nor participates in
19
any strike or any other collective action creating a work stoppage or interfering with production.
12,01	The bulletin boards of the Company are at the
disposal of the Union, permitting the latter to post its notices. Such notices are posted only after having been submitted for approval to the Personnel Manager or to his delegate.
12,02	For the posting of functions, the notices are
posted as follows:	the bulletin board in the main
entrance, the one in the cafeteria and the one in each sector of the plant.
ARTICLE 13 UNIFORMS
13,01	The employees required to wear a uniform are supplied with three (3) uniforms without cost; these uniforms are maintained at the cost of the Company.
If an employee requires more uniforms, the Company shall, if it judges proper, furnish them.
13,02	The uniforms are worn by the employees only during the hours of work, with the exception of the lunch periods. The changing of uniforms upon the arrival to work of the employees and upon their departure does not disrupt the established work schedule.
20
13.03	When an employee is laid-off, he must remit to the Company all that belongs to the Company.
ARTICLE 14 AUTHORIZED LEAVES
14.01	An authorized leave may be granted by the Company to employees having two (2) or more years of service for personal reasons. Such reguests must be made in writing and indicate the reason and duration of the requested leave. Every authorized leave granted by the Company is noted in writing by specifying the date on which the employee must return to work. During such a leave, the employee continues to accumulate seniority. The Company responds within the two (2) work weeks following the reguest.
14,03	Permanent work for the Union by an employee for up to a maximum of twelve (12) consecutive months for Union activities is considered as a valid personal reason. During the duration of the leave granted for such purposes, the employee continues to accumulate his seniority and upon his return to the plant, he is reinstated in the department and in the classification he held prior to the Leave, During such absence, the employee will not be covered under any of the Company Health and Welfare programs.
14,03	An employee who becomes pregnant, shall be
eligible for maternity leave in accordance with the Labour Standard Act and Regulations.
21
14.04 Birth or adoption;
In the event of a birth or adoption, an employee who has completed sixty (60) consecutive days of service shall be eligible to five (5) days of leave of absence, two (2) days of which shall be paid to be taken in accordance with the Law. Parental leave shall also be granted in accordance with the Law.
ARTICLE 15
BARGAINING UNIT WORK
15.01	Supervisory personnel will not regularly perform
work that is normally performed by Bargaining Unit members, except in the following circumstances:
(a)	emergencies;
(b)	to train or retrain employees;
(c)	when no qualified employee is available on the Company premises, or until a recalled employee reports for work;
(d)	to perform tests or experimental work.
ARTICLE 16 BEREAVEMENT LEAVE
15,01	In the case of death of his spouse or his child, an employee who has acguired seniority shall be granted a paid leave of five (5) normal working days commencing as of the date of death.
22
16.02	In the case of death in the immediate family, that is, father, mother, brother, sister, mother-in-law and father-in-law, half brother and half sister, and having as a purpose the arrangements and attending the funeral services, an employee shall be granted a paid leave of three (3) normal working days. Such, upon presentation of such proof that the Company may reasonably request.
16,03	In the case of death of a grand-father, grandmother, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, brother-inlaw and sister-in-law, one (1) paid leave of one (1) normal work day as of the date of death.
16.04	If the death of an immediate member of the family, that is, spouse, child, father, mother, brother, sister, father-in-law, mother-in-law, half brother and half sister occurs, the Company may grant an additional unpaid leave of up to five (5) days in addition to the paid days for proven travelling purposes or delayed burial.
ARTICLE 17 BENEFIT PLANS
17.01	The Company employee Benefit programmes, as set forth below, and as summarized in the Employees Booklet shall be provided to all employees covered by this Collective Agreement. The benefit levels and rates of employee contribution shall continue throughout the term of the Agreement, unless otherwise noted below. The administration of the Plans, including the selection of the methods by which benefits are to be provided are vested solely in the Company or such other individual or entity as appointed by the Company, and such changes therein may be made at the Company's
23
discretion. All terms and conditions shall be governed by the Master Plan document.
The Benefit Plans are:
(a)	The Employees Group Weekly Accident and Sickness Accidental Death and Dismemberment Plan. The weekly benefit shall be Sixty-Six and Two Thirds Percent (66 2/3%) of earnings to a maximum of Three Hundred and Seventy Dollars ($ 370.00) per week effective January 1/ 1994 and Three Hundred and Eighty Dollars ($ 380.00) per week effective January 1, 1995, for twenty-six (26) weeks less the number of weeks for which the employee is eligible for disability benefits under the Unemployment Insurance Act. The Accidental Death and Dismemberment benefit will be fifty (50) times the weekly benefit. Where an application for disability benefits is submitted to the Unemployment Insurance Commission within two (2) weeks of the commencement of disability, and a delay in unemployment disability payments is subsequently encountered, the Company shall continue weekly indemnity payments for a maximum period of four (4) weeks, subject to proof of continuing disability, and conditional upon the employees agreement to reimburse the Company for such additional weekly indemnity payments upon receipt of Unemployment Insurance benefits.
(b)	The Employees Group Life Insurance Plan. The
Retiree Life Insurance Benefit for retirees shall be the lesser of Four Thousand Dollars ($ 4,000.00) or Ten Percent (10%) of final earnings, as defined in the Plan, commencing the first year of retirement and thereafter. Effective January 1, 1994, the dependent coverage is
24
Two Thousand Dollars ($ 2, 000.00) for the spouse and One Thousand Dollars ($ 1,000.00) for each eligible child.
(c)	The Employee Group Long Term Disability Insurance Plan. Effective January 1, 1994, employee rate of contribution will be one percent (l%)Df earnings in excess of Eight Thousand Dollars ($ 8,000.00) per year.
(d)	The Employee Group Major Medical/Dental Plan.
Effective January 1, 1994 the semi private room allowance will be Thirty Dollars ($ 30.00) per day, effective January 1, 1995 the allowance will be Thirty-five Dollars ($ 35.00) per day.
Effective January 1, 1994, the dental fee schedule shall be based on the 1990 Quebec Dental Association Fee Guide, effective January 1, 1995 based on the 1991 Fee Guide and effective January 1, 1996 based on the 1992 Fee Guide.
Effective January 1, 1994, employee contriubtions Will be Two Dollars ($ 2.00), Four Dollars ($
4.00)	or Six Dollars ($ 6.00) per month based on marital status.
(e)	The Employees Retirement Income Plan. Subject to the approval of the Retirement Committee provided for in the Plan and all Provincial and Federal laws and regulations, the non-contributory future service benefit level shall be Ten Dollars ($
10.00)	per month per year of service for service rendered on and after IVfy 1st, 1990.
25
17,02	Employees who are eligible for and are covered by these Plans will make contributions as provided in the Plans. In the event an employee does not wish to participate in any of these Plans, he shall sign a waiver form as furnished by the Company.
ARTICLE 18 GENERAL
18.01 Masculine yjs feririre:
In this Collective Agreement, all the masculine words indicate the masculine and the feminine, or vice versa.
18.02	par.Hin.gj.
The parking lot is available free of charge for the employees; and such, only for the duration of the present Collective Agreement.
18.03	Pav:
(a)	The pay of the employees is distributed on Thursday morning for the day shift and Wednesday evening for the evening and night shifts. Exception made if a holiday occurs during the course of a week, other provisions will have to be established.
(b)	The pay of employees is distributed each week and any error l$ss than Twenty Dollars ($ 20.00) is reimbursed to the employee immediately, and if greater than Twenty Dollars ($ 20.00), is reimbursed at the latest the following Friday.
26
18.04	An employee who has completed his probationary
period is entitled to the difference between his regular salary and the salary received as juror or Crown witness by subpoena for the days absent as a juror or as a Crown witness by subpoena.
18.05	An allowance of One Hundred and Fifty Dollars ($ 150.00) effective January 1, 1994 and One Hundred and Seventy-five Dollars ($ 175.00) effective January 1, 1995 is granted annually to the maintenance mechanics, electricians and electronic technicians for the purchase of tools for purposes of replacement as a result of theft, damage, wear and tear, etc. Proof of purchase must be submitted to the Company.
18.06	I n the event of a permanent department closure, the Company agrees to first negotiate an agreement with the Union concerning the severance pay for affected employees.
ARTICLE 19
HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
19.01	This article provides the basis for the
calculation of hours of work, overtime and shift premiums.
19.02	The normal work week shall commence at 00:01 Monday and end at midnight on the following Sunday. The normal work week shall consist of five (5) work days, eight (8) hours per day and forty (40) hours per week. However, subject to the provisions of Article 19.13, the normal work
27
week for non continuous operations will be Monday to Friday. This is considered as a guarantee of daily or weekly hours of work.
With respect to continuous shifts, the schedule in effect is the weekly guarantee.
However this guarantee does not apply:
(a)	If the employee must take courses or assist a meeting while on lay-off;
(b)	In cases of fortuitous event;
(c)	For employees on probation;
(d)	In cases of strike or lock-out (external);
(e)	If caused by the absence of an employee.
Overtime is not considered in the calculation of guaranteed hours.
The guarantee of hours of work set forth in this Article will not apply to employees hired after April 9, 1990 until such time as the employee has completed five (5) years of continuous service with the Company. An employee having five (5) or more years of continuous service who is recalled from lay-off at anytime during the work week shall be guaranteed the remaining normal work hours in the work week.
19,03 All work performed over and above eight (8) hours in any one (1} day or forty (40) hours in any one (1) week shall be paid at the rate of time and one-half (11/2 x) the employees' classified rate. Double time (2 x} shall be paid for all hours worked on the seventh (7th) consecutive day worked
28
in the work week. There shall be no pyramiding of overtime premium payments under this agreement.
In order to qualify for the overtime premiums provided above, the employee must work all scheduled hours in the work week. In the event an employee is absent during the work week due to authorized Union activities or illness, medical evidence satisfactory to the Company must be submitted to qualify for the overtime premium.
19,04	The starting and stopping times of shift schedules shall be established by the Company and such schedules may be amended or revised from time to time at the Company's sole discretion in order to maintain efficiency and productivity and to meet operational requirements. The Company will endeavor to notify affected employees twenty-four (24) hours in advance of any change in shift hours.
19.05
(a)	Overtime opportunities shall be rotated by
seniority among employees in the classification where the overtime work is required and who are on site and immediately qualified to perform the overtime work. Failing sufficient response, the assignment of overtime will be handled in accordance with procedures established on December 2, 1991. It is understood that an employee will not be requested to work more than twelve (12) hours overtime per week. Failing sufficient response for the classifications in which there is only one (1} employee per shift, the overtime will be offered to qualified employees in the department before being assigned to the qualified employee who is most junior in the classification.
29
(b)	If an employee declines an overtime opportunity, it shall be considered overtime worked insofar as the rotation of overtime opportunities is concerned.
(c)	A record of overtime opportunities will be maintained over the term of this Agreement and available to the President or a Union Steward when requested.
19.06	A fifteen (15) minute rest period will be provided during each half of a full shift worked as scheduled by management.
19.07	The Company reserves the right, and will review
with the union in advance, the implementation of a continuous shift schedule consisting of seven (7) consecutive days of twenty-four (24) hours per day.
19.08	Weekly work schedules will be posted by 12 noon each Friday.
19.09	An employee who is recalled to work after having left the Company premises shall be guaranteed four
(4) hours work or four (4) hours pay. This provision, however, shall not apply when an employee is required to report earlier than his scheduled starting time.
19.10	An employee who reports for work without having been previously notified not to do so, and for whom no work is available, shall be guaranteed four (4) hours work or four (4) hours pay. This provision, however, shall not apply where the lack
30
of work is due to circumstances beyond the Company's control or a fortuitous event.
19.11	When an employee is scheduled to work more than two (2) hours of overtime, the employee shall be entitled to a fifteen (15) minute paid rest period during the overtime assignment. If the overtime extends beyond four (4) hours, the employee will be entitled to a lunch period as scheduled by the Company.
19.12	Lunch periods shall be assigned by management.
19.13	Notwithstanding the provisions of this Article, it is understood and agreed that the normal scheduled work week may be varied from department to department and/or classification to classification depending on the requirements of the business. It is further agreed that such variation is based on the principle that the Company will not incur any additional increased labour cost or be required to make any payment greater than those established in this Collective Agreement. Such variation will be discussed with the Union prior to implementation.
ARTICLE 20 PAID HOLIDAYS
20.01	The following holidays will be granted with pay if not worked:
New Year's Day, the day following New Year's Day, Good Friday, Canada Day, St-Jean Baptiste Day, Confederation Day, Labour Day, Thanksgiving Day, the day previous to Christmas Day, Christmas Day,
31
the day following Christmas Day and the day previous to New Year's Day.
20.02	In order to qualify for statutory pay, the
employee must work the full scheduled work day immediately prior to the holiday and the full scheduled work day immediately following the holiday. An employee absent on either of the foregoing qualifying days due to sickness or injury will nevertheless be paid for the holiday, provided:
(a)	the employee has worked at least one (1) full day during the seven (7) calendar day period prior to the holiday and one (1) full day in the seven (7) calendar day period following the holiday, and
(b)	the employee is not eligible for weekly indemnity benefits, disability benefits under the Unemployment Insurance Act, or Workers Compensation benefits for the day on which the holiday is observed; and
(c)	medical proof satisfactory to the Company is submitted when reguested.
20.03	Probationary and temporary employees, employees on lay-off or leave of absence for any reason at the time a holiday occurs, employees on strike or lock-out will not be eligible for statutory holiday pay under this Article.
20.04	However, should it become necessary to work on anyone of the said paid holidays, the employee will be paid for the numbers of hours worked based on one and one-half times (1 1/2) his regular daily rate, plus any applicable premium and the remuneration for the holiday mentioned above.
- 32
20.05	Depending on the requirements of the business, the Company may, at its sole discretion, reschedule another day off in substitution of any statutory holiday with prior notice to the employees one (1) week in advance of the statutory holiday listed in article 12.01. It is understood that if an employee is required to work on the substituted day, the employee will be paid at one and one-half (1 1/2} times his regular straight time rate for all hours worked.
20.05	Should a holiday occur during an employee's vacation period, the employee will, at management's discretion, receive an additional vacation day either immediately prior to or immediately following his vacation period, or the pay for the holiday.
20.07 When a holiday falls on a Saturday or a Sunday, the holiday may be observed on either the preceding Friday or the following Monday.
ARTICLE 21
ANNUAL LEAVE WITH PAY
21,01 Beginning December 31, 1990, paid annual leave is based on the following schedule:
(a)	Two (2) weeks after one (1) year of continuous service.
(b)	Three (3} weeks after five (5) years of continuous service.
33
(c)	Four (4) weeks after ten (10) years of continuous service.
(d)	Five (5) weeks after twenty (20) years of continuous service.
21.02
(a)	Vacation entitlement and eligibility shall be based on an employee's continuous service as of each December 31st,
(b)	Employees having less than one (1) year of continuous service as of December 31st shall be entitled to one (1) paid day per month of service up to a maximum of ten (10) days calculated at the rate of 4% of earnings.
21.03
(a) An employee who is entitled to more than three (3) weeks of vacation may take all his weeks of vacation consecutively in conjunction with the vacation shutdown on condition that the normal operations of the plant are not affected, or else he takes three (3) consecutive weeks and the remaining weeks must be taken at another period based on seniority but before December 31 of the current year.
(b) In the event the Company does not schedule a vacation shutdown, employees will be entitled to select their vacation periods in order of seniority. under these circumstances, no employee will be permitted to take any more than three (3) consecutive weeks at any one time. Furthermore, the Company reserves the right to limit the number of employees on vacation at any one time based on operational requirements.
34
(c)	The fourth and/or fifth weeks of vacation can only be scheduled after all the employees entitled to two (2) or three (3) weeks have scheduled their vacations.
21,04	Vacation pay for an employee who worked forty (40) or more weeks in the prior year will be the greater of two percent (2%) of the previous years gross earnings or forty (40) hours pay at the employee's classified rate for each week of vacation entitlement.
Vacation pay for an employee who worked less than forty (40) weeks in the prior year will be two percent (2%) of the previous years gross earnings for each week of vacation entitlement.
Lay-offs of up to three (3) months due to equipment changes will be considered as time worked for vacation pay calculation.
21,05	The Company reserves the right to schedule a vacation shutdown for all or part of its operations, during the period between St-Jean-Baptiste Holiday and the second Monday of September, in order to permit employees to take their annual vacation. In the event a vacation shut-down is scheduled by the Company, it will endeavour to announce the period of vacation shutdown on May 1st of each year.
35
ARTICLE 22
JOB CLASSIFICATIONS AND HOURLY RATES
22.01 Job classifications and hourly rates
Hourly Rates effective
Cl ftssifi.ca.tiQa
PASTA
*	1 Buhler /Braibanti Operator
*	2 Press/Dryer Operator
3	Specialized Operator
4	Relief Operator
5	Paletizer/Storags Silo Operator
6	Specialized Cleaner
7	Lasagna Operator
8	Sanitation Worker
9	Operator Class I
10	Lasagna Worker
11	Operator Class II
12	General Help
14 ,95 14,50 14,25
13.95
13.95
13.95
13.95
13.65
13.65 13.45 13.30 13.05
15.45 15,00 14,75
14.45
14.45
14.45
14.45
14.15
14.15 13,95 13.30 13.55
CANNING i CONDENSED MILK
★
*
*
*
1	Condensed Milk Process Operator	15.30
2	Cook ^	14.95
3	Packaging operator Class I	14.50
4	Condensed Milk Process Cleaner	14,50
5	Specialized Cleaner	14.25
6	Production Operator	13.95
7	Packaging operator Class II	13.65
3	Sanitation Worker	13.65
9	General Help	13.05
16.30
15.45
15.00
15.00
14.75
14.45 14 .15 14 .15 13.55
36
Monrlv Rates effective
Classification
DISTRIBUTION
1	Checker
2	Race!ver/Shipper
3	Fork-Lift Operator
4	General Help
14.50 15.00 13,$5 14.45 13.65 14.15 13.05 13.55
MAINTENANCE
*	1 Electrotechnician
2	Maintenance A Canning
3	Maintenance B Canning
4	Maintenance B Pasta
5	Fork-Lift Mechanics
+	6 Maintenance C Canning
7	Maintenance C Pasta
8	Fumigator
$ Uniform and Store Keeper 10 General Help
20.14	20.64
17.60	18.10
16.35	16.85
16.35	16.85
16.35	16.85
14.90	15.40
14.90	15.40
14.20	14.70
13.30	13.80
13.05	13.55
QUALITY CONTROL
*	1 Lab Technician Class I
-	Pasta
2	Lab Technician Class I
-	Canning
3	Lab Technician Class I
-	Condensed Milk
4	Lab Technician Class II
-	Pasta
5	Lab Technician Class II
-	Canning
14.50	15.00
14.50	15.00
14.50	15.00
13.95	14.45
13.95	14.45
Key Job:	Reguires in excess of ten (10) days
training.
37
22.02 Evening and night premiums for all work done at regular time:
Premiums :
Evening -	0.35
Night -	0.45
These premiums are not increased in cases of overtime.
22.03	Lead Hand premium:
Lead hands appointed by the Company pursuant to article 9.05 shall receive a premium of one dollar ($ 1.00) per hour while peforming a Lead Hand function in addition to their classified rate.
Such premium shall not be included in the calculation of overtime premium pay.
22.04	Starting Rate;
Permanent employees hired after the ratification of the present collective agreement shall be paid in accordance with the following schedule:
Service
Rate
0-12 months 13-24 months Over 24 months
80% of classified rate 90% of classified rate 100% of classified rate
38
22.05 Rate fnr temporary.employees:
Temporary employees hired pursuant to Article 4,02 shall be paid at the rate of nine dollars ($ 9.00) per hour for all hours worked.
ARTICLE 23
DURATION OF THE AGREEMENT
23,01 This Agreement shall be for a term commencing on January 1, 1994 and expiring on December 31/ 1997
23,02 If either party desires to amend this Collective
Agreement, notification of such intention shall be submitted in conformity with the Labour Code.
23,03	If such notification is submitted, the parties
will meet within fifteen (15) days to negotiate a new collective agreement,
39
23.04	It is understood that the terms of this agreement will remain in effect until the right to strike or lock-out is acquired by the parties.
SIGNED the .. -. day of
1994
FOR THE COMPANY
FOR THE UNION
40
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
BETWEEN:	BORDEN CATELLI,
DIVISION OF BORDEN COMPANY LIMITED
(hereinafter called «The Company»)
AND :	BAKERY CONFECTIONERY AND TABACCO WORKERS
INTERNATIONAL UNION Local 227, A, F , L, -C.I.O. ■ C.L.C. - Q.F.L.
(hereinafter called «The Union»)
No. 1	- Purpose
The purpose of this Understanding is to cover the operation of a twelve (12) hour rotating shift schedule supplementary to the Collective Agreement between the parties, and applicable only to employees primarily in pasta production and other employees as assigned by the Company.
No- 2__=___Lhirntinn of Latter of Agreement
The twelve (12) hour work schedule shall continue for a trial period of ninety (90) days, beginning December 17, 1990 and any extension thereof unless rendered or declared invalid by reason of any existing or subsequently enacted legislation or any decree of a court of competent jurisdiction and subject to the termination provisions set forth in No. 3 (3) below and Appendix «A» attached hereto.
41
No. 3__-__General Provisions
(A)	Since it is not possible to anticipate every
problem or situation that may arise during the trial period or any continuation thereof, it is understood and agreed that an attempt shall be made to resolve such problems in a manner consistent with the overall intent of this Agreement based on the principle that there will be no financial gain to either party and, that the Company shall not be put to any increased cost or required to make any payments greater than those established in the current Collective Agreement.
(B)	It is further understood and agreed that in the
event problems or differences arise which can not be resolved, the twelve (12) hour work schedule may be terminated by the company giving thirty (30) days written notice to the union.
(C)	There shall be no premiums paid for change from the eight (8) hour shift to the twelve (12) hour shift, or any change back from the twelve (12) hour shift to the original eight (8) hour shift.
No. 4	- Calculation ot «Naw Straight Tima Rat«»
(A)	Based on the principle agreed to in No. 3(A) above, a «New Straight Time Rate» will be established for each ion involved in the twelve (12) hour shift schedule. See Appendix «B» attached hereto for calculation formula.
42
IN CONSIDERATION THEREOF, THE PARTIES HEREBY AGREE THAT THE COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT SHALL BE AMENDED AS KIKMS, APPLICABLE ONLY TO TLD-E EMPLOYEES ON THE TWELVE (12) HOUR SHIFT SCHEDULE.
Amendment no. 1
Article. 9.01	- Job Posting
Change two (2) work days to four (4) calendar days.
Amendment no. 2
Article 14.04	- Paid leave for birth
One (1) day paid leave shall be eight (8) hours at
old base rate.
Amendment no. 3	- Bereavement Leave
Article .Lft.pl
An employee who has acquired seniority shall be paid for five (5) consecutive days mentioned in this article commencing as of the date of the death at the rate of eight (8) hours per day at the Old Base Rate.
Article 16.02
Three (3) days mentioned in this article shall be three (3) consecutive days at the rate of eight (8) hours per day at the Old Base Rate.
Article 16.03	_	_
One (1) day mentioned in this article shall be eight (8) hours at the Old Base Rate.
Amendment no. 4
Article 18.03	- Pay Day
To be discussed and resolved.
43
Amendment no. 5
Article 18.04 - Jury Duty and Witness Pay «Regular salary» shall mean eight (8) hours pay for-each scheduled working day absent at the employees old base rate excluding overtime and shift premium allowances.
Amendment no. 6
Article 19.02	- Hours of Work and Overtime
(A) The normal work week shall commence at 00.01 a.m. Monday and end at midnight of the following Sunday. Each employee will be required to work the assigned shift Schedule as set forth in Appendix «C» attached hereto.
(B)	Notwithstanding the provisions of Article 19.02, it is understood and agreed that the forty (40) hour guaranteed work week will not apply in instances where the twelve (12) hour continuous shift schedule does not provide forty (40) hours or work in the work week.
The guarantee will apply, however, when a plant shut-down for fumigation purposes results in an employee working less that his normal scheduled work week. Under this circumstance, the employee will be paid the difference between his pay for the week on the reduced schedule and forty (40) hours pay at the employee's Old Base Rate.
The guarantee will also apply t o an employee who is transferred to or from the continuous shift for one (1) full week or less. If such transfer results in the employee being paid less than forty (40) hours at Old Base Rate, the employee will be paid the difference between his weekly pay and forty (40) hours pay at the employees Old Base Rate.
44
(C)	Payment of wages will be based on the number of hours worked in the work week at the employee's new straight time rate.
Article .19,03	- Overtime
(A) If an employee is required to work overtime in
excess of this scheduled shift, such excess hours will be paid at the rate of time and one-half. Such overtime will be paid at the employee's old base rate excluding overtime and shift premium allowances.
Required overtime will not exceed four (4) hours per shift.
Time and one-half at Old Base Rate will be paid when an employee is assigned to work on his first scheduled day off,
Double time at Old Base Rate will be paid when an employee is assigned to work on his second consecutive scheduled day off.
Four hours pay shall be at Old Base Rate, plus the appropriate shift premium.
Article 19.10	- Reporting Pay
Four (4) hours pay shall be at Old Base Rate, plus the appropriate shift premium.
Articles 13J36 and 19,11 _ - Rest and Maal Periods Notwithstanding the provisions of Articles 19.06 and 19.11, it is agreed that employees assigned to the twelve (12) hour continuous shift schedule will be entitled to two (2) fifteen (15) minute rest periods plus two (2) twenty (20) minute lunch periods as scheduled by management.
45
Amendment no. 7
Articles 20 0]__20 04____20 05 and 20 06	-
Holidays
(A) When a holiday is observed during an employee's
vacation or on his scheduled day off, the employee will be paid eight (8) hours pay at Old Base Fate.
(8) If an employee is required to work on a recognized or substituted holiday, he shall be paid at the rate of one and one-half (1 V2) times his new straight time rate for all hours so worked in addition to the holiday pay provided in (A) above.
(C) If a holiday is observed during an employee's scheduled work day, and the employee is not required to work, he shall be paid for twelve (12) hours at his new straight time rate.
flfri t,.	- Vacations
vfe'J>■ wfefelts vacation shall consist of 7 twelve (12) hour shifts:
Three (3) weeks vacation shall consist of 10 twelve (12) hour shifts;
Four (4) weeks vacation shall consist of 14 twelve (12) hour shifts;
Five (5) weeks vacation shall consist of 17 twelve (12) hour shifts.
Article 21.02 (B)	- Vacations
One day shall be eight (3) hours.
Amendment no. 9
Article 22.02	- Shift Premiums
Shift premiums for employees on the twelve (12) hour shift schedule shall be the same regardless of the shift worked and shall be the average of the present shift premiums over twenty-four hours. See Appendix «B» for calculation.
46
The Parties hereby agree that all other provisions of the Collective Aareement shall remain in full force and effect.
Signed this
day of
199
FOR THE COMPANY:
FOR THE UNION:
- 47
APPENDIX «A»
MANAGEMENT BASIS FOR TERMINATION OF TWELVE (12) HOUR SHIFT SCHEDULE
The following criteria, alone or in combination, are
agreed to be adequate reason for terminating the twelve (12) hour shift schedule:
1.	Total operating labour cost of the twelve (12) hour schedule exceeds the total of the eight (8) hour schedule.
2.	New laws or amendments to existing laws which requires the payment of a premium or benefit not now required.
3.	Unfavourable rulings or penalties imposed by the Workers' Compensation Board.
4.	Problems arising from sick leave replacement.
5.	Increased operator fatigue.
6.	Reduced productivity related to teh twelve (12) hour schedule.
7.	Deterioration of job communications between different shifts or between supervision and the operators.
8.	Increased labour turnover attributable to the twelve (12) hour schedule.
9.	Work limitations being placed on an employee thereby preventing him from working the full twelve (12) hour shift.
Notwithstanding the above, it is understood and agreed that the Company has the right to terminate the new system at any time upon thirty (30) days written notice to the Union.
48
APPENDIX «B»
WAGE RATE CONVERSION FORMULA
Classified rate = + t
Old Base Rate
Scheduled Overtime Allowance Average Shift Premium New Straight Time Rate
F.vampl <a Of Mow Straight Time Rate calculation LPress/Dryer Operator
Present Old Base Rate	$14.50
Present Shift Premium	$ 0.35 afternoon/$ 0.45 night
Eight (8) week schedule will provide - 320 hours at straight time
t 16 hours overtime
320 hours 5 $14.50	=	$4,640.00
16 hours 9 $14.50 x	1.5	=	348.00
$41 ft88.M
1 hour = $4, 988.00	+ 336	=	$	14.85
Less Old Rate	■	i___14.50
= Average Overtime	Allowance =	$	0.35
Shift premium ■ (.35 + ,45 * 3 * $.267 Average Shift Premium Allowance)
Old Base Rent	$	14.50
Average Overtime Allowance	$	0.35
Average Shift Allowance	$	Q-27
New straight Time Rate
$	15.12 per hour
- 49
APPENDIX «C»
12 HOUR SHIFT SCHEDULE
1st week	2nd week	3id Keek
MTWTFSD MTWTFSO MTWTF30 MTttTFSO
A	N N	NNN	N N
B	DD	DOD	00
DO	D	D	D	D	D
N N	N	N	II	N	N
C	D	D 0	N N	N N	N	N N	D D	D D
D	N	N N	D D	D D	D	0 0	N N	N N
50