*		souaci			3mP	
•		EFF.	1—' o~-		0^	|T
		TMM.	01		oS	19
	AGREI	No. Of mnortn		3=H)		
		NOMBtt 0%M PtoVfs		ofP		
BET\ic.cn
KRAFT
KRAFT CANADA INC.
COBOURG. ONTARIO
AND
UNITED FOOD ANL) COMMERCIAL WORKTRS
INIIkNMIDKAl IO( Al I MU
AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
KRAFT CANADA INC.
COBOURG, ONTARIO AND
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS
INTERNATIONAL LOCAL 1230
1998-2001
INDEX OF ARTICLES
ARTICLE	PAGE
1.	Recognition............................... 6
2.	Bargaining Unit........................... 6
3.	Management................................ 8
4.	Union Security............................ 8
5.	Grievance Procedure...................... 10
6.	Arbitration.............................. 15
7.	Representation........................... 17
8.	Plant Holidays........................... 18
9.	Restand Meal Periods..................... 21
10.	Tools for Tradesmen..................... 22
11.	Licenses................................ 22
12.	Working Clothes......................... 22
13.	Appearance in Court..................... 23
14.	Safety, Health and Sanitation........... 23
15.	Co-operation............................ 24
16.	Bereavement Pay......................... 25
17.	Vacations............................... 26
18.	Benefits................................ 29
19.	Hours of Work and Overtime.............. 30
20.	Wages and Job Rate Rules................ 32
21.	Off-Shift Premiums...................... 35
22.	Severance Allowance/Closure Agreement... 35
23.	Seniority............................... 37
24.	Posting and Filling of Positions........ 39
25.	Reduction and Recall of PlantWork Force. 42
26.	Leave of Absence........................ 45
27.	Term of Agreement....................... 49
Appendix "A" Hourly Wage Rates............... 51
Appendix “B” Special Appendices Respecting
Maintenance.................. 56
RecognizedTrades and Skills.... 57
Maintenance Departments-
Classifications.............. 58
Filling of Vacancies........... 59
Shift Rotation................. 60
Temporary Assignment from
Classification to Classification. 61
Maintenance Overtime........... 61
Reduction in MaintenanceWorkforce 61
INDEX OF ARTICLES
ARTICLE
PAGE
Appendix “C”
Appendix “D” Appendix "E" Appendix “F
Appendix “G” Appendix “H”
Apprenticeship Training Program.... 63 Powerhouse Employees Twelve (12)
Hour Shift Schedule............. 64
Temporary Employeesand Students 66 Medical/Dental for Temporary
Employees....................... 67
Definitions....................... 68
Overtime Distribution............. 72
Benefits.......................... 75
Kraft Canada Medical Plan........ 76
Dental Plan....................... 83
Life Insurance Plan............... 86
Accidental Death and
Dismemberment Insurance Plan 88 Non-Occupational Accident and
Short-Term Disability Plan...... 89
Long-Term Disability.............. 94
Retirement Plan................... 97
Summary of Pension Plan Provisions- Hourly Employees... 104 Medical and Dental Benefits Plan lor Regular Full-Time Employees at
Time cf Lay-off.................108
Savings Program...................109
Special Appendices Respecting
Laboratory Employees............109
Alternate Work Schedules..........113
Workplace Safety and Insurance
Board...........................115
Joint Pension Committee for Hourly Employees Mandate and Activities
Schedule........................116
Temporary Posting and Filling
of Positions....................118
Pre-testing of Applicants.........121
Flexible Work Schedules...........123
ALPHABETICAL INDEX OF ARTICLES
ARTICLE
PAGE
Appearance in Court..................
Appendix “A” Hourly V\fege Rates.....
Appendix “B” Special Appendices re Maintenance Appendix “C” Temporary Employees and Students
Appendix “D” Definitions.....................
Appendix “E” Overtime Distribution...........
Appendix “P Benefits.........................
Appendix “G” Special Appendices Respecting
Laboratory Employees.........
Appendix “H" Alternate Work Schedules
Arbitration..........................
Bargaining Unit......................
Benefits.............................
Bereavement Pay......................
Co-operation.........................
Grievance Procedure..................
Hours of Work and Overtime...........
Leave of Absence.....................
Licenses.............................
Management...........................
Memorandum of Agreement..............
Off-Shift Premiums...................
Plant Holidays.......................
Posting and Filling of Positions.....
Recognition..........................
Reduction and Recall of Plant Work Force
Representation.......................
Restand Meal Periods.................
Safety, Health and Sanitation........
Savings Program......................
Seniority............................
Severance Allowance/Closure Agreement.
Term of Agreement....................
Tools of Tradesmen...................
Union Security.......................
Vacations............................
Wages and Job Rate Rules.............
Working Clothes......................
30
45
22
8
118
35
18
39
6
42
17
21
23
109
37
35
49
22
8
26
32
22
AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
KRAFT CANADA INC. COBOURG, ONTARIO
And/or its successor
Hereincalled“the Company" AND
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION,
affiliated with the AF. of L - C.I.O.,
of the Canadian Labour congress (C.L.C.)
on behalf of Local 1230.
Hereincalled“the Union".
PREAMBLE
Recognizingthat the welfare of the Company and that of its employees depends upon the welfare of the business as a whole, and recognizingfurther that a relationship of goodwill and mutual respect between employer and employees can contribute greatly to the maintenance and increase of that welfare, the parties of this contractjoin together in the following Agreement.
5
Article 1 - Recognition
1.1	The Company recognizes the Union as the sole collective bargaining agent with respectto rates of pay, hours of work, and such otherworking conditions and provisions as are included in this Agreement for all classes of employees, as defined in Article2 - Bargaining Unit.
1.2	The Company will notbargaincollectivelywith any otherlabourorganizationon matters affecting these employeesduringthe term of this Agreement.
Article2 - Bargaining Unit
2.1	The Bargaining Unitiscomposedof all employees at the Cobourg Plant, save and except Supervisors, persons above the rank of Supervisors, office staff, salaried technicians, watchmen and guards.
2.2	Work customarilyperformed by the employees in the BargainingUnit shall not be done on the plant premises by personsexcluded from the scope and jurisdiction of this Agreement, or by employees not covered by this Agreement, except for purposes of experimentaldevelopment, audit, on-the-job training, instructionof employees, or in cases of emergency.
2.3	Notwithstanding Article 2.2 and Appendix "A", some duties/tests may be re-allocated between Plant and Laboratory and/or Plant and Maintenance Classificationsto enhance production and quality efficiencies. The newand/or changedclas-sificationswill be subjectto Article 20.9. Laboratory and Maintenance Personnelwill not be displaced because of any transfer of duties. However, if the needs of the business warrant a reduction of the number of jobs in the Laboratory and Maintenance groups, these employees will have the opportunity to move into Plant positions accordingto seniority.
6
2.3	In the event of an opening in the Laboratory, Maintenance or Production, qualified personnel from Maintenance, Laboratory Groups or Production, will have the first opportunity to apply according to their seniority.
2.4	a) The Union agrees the Company has the right to hire personnel on a temporary basis when necessary to meet production requirements or replace full time employees for such reasons as vacation, sick leave or leave of absence. Terms and conditions covering temporary employees will be in accordance with Appendix “C", which forms part of this Collective Agreement.
b) The Company agrees to establish a committee consistingof two (2) Unionandlwo (^Company representatives, whose task it will be to review monthly, the process of evaluation for Temporary Employees and make recommendations to management on improving the process. This committee will assess manpower needsand recommend hiring when appropriate. When there is a need to hire Hourly Regular Full-time Employees, they will be hired from the Temporary Employees workforce, except where specific qualifications are required and not available in the temporary workforce, eg. Maintenance and Quality Systems.
2.5	It is understood that the Company may need to sub-contract work, but the Company agreesto restrict the hiringof sub-contractors to performsuch work on the plant premises to those instances where:
1.	The work cannot be performed by Bargaining Unit employees due to inappropriateskills and unavailabilityof qualified personnel.
2.	Necessary equipment or tools to perform the work are not available to the plant.
3.	Such work cannot be performed by Bargaining Unit employees within requiredtime limits.
7
4.	The Company will advise the Union President prior to any subcontracting work.
5.	The Company will dialogue with the Union Presidentpriorto any co-packing work.
Where regular employees who are laid-off have the skills and the equipment to do the work being subcontracted,the Company will not subcontract the work.
2.6	Use of the masculine gender in this Agreement shall be consideredalso to include the feminine.
Article3 - Management
3.1	Subject to the provisions of this Agreement, the management and operation of the business; and the employment, direction, promotion,transfer, layoff, termination, retirement; and reprimand, suspension^ discharge of employees for just cause, shall be vested solely in the Management of the Company. The exercise of such functions shall not be subject to arbitration unless related to the provisions of the Agreement.
Article 4- Union Security
4.1	All employees as of the signing of the Collective Agreementwho are membersofthe Union (in accordance with its constitution and by-laws) and all employeeswho become members after such date shall, as a condition of employment, maintaintheir membership in good standing with the Union so long as this Collective Agreement or its renewal shall continue in force.
In the event that an employee has been expelled from the Union in accordance with its constitution and by-laws, the employment of said employee shall automatically be terminated.
4.2	a) The Company agrees to deduct each week
from wages due and payable to each Regular Full-time employee, probationary employee and temporary employee coming within the scope of the Bargaining Unit as defined in
8
Article 2.1 of this Collective Agreement, the regular weekly union dues. Such dues will be remitted to the Secretary Treasurer of Local 1230, United Food and Commercial Workers International, duringthe week which followsthe deduction, together with a list of changes inthe BargainingUnit, and the names of employees for whom deductions have not been made. h) Any union dues payable and not processed through payroll deductions because the employee has no earnings at the time the deductions are made, is claimed and collected by the Union directly from the employee.
4.3	The Company agreesthat upon receiptofwritten authorizationin the form of a signed Union Membership Card, it will deduct from the wages of employees joining the Union after the ratification of this Agreement, the initiationfee due from him to the Local Union and shall remitthe same to the Secretary Treasurer of Local 1230, United Food and Commercial Workers International, on or before the fifteenth (15th) day of the following calendar month. Special assessments, if levied in accordance with the constitution and by-laws of the Union, will be deducted from members of the Union upon proper notification from the Union.
4.4	The Companyshall notbe responsiblefinancially or otherwise, either to the Union or to any employee, for any failure to make deductions or for making improper or inaccurate deductions or remittances. However, in any instance in which an error occurs in the amount of any deduction of dues from an employee's wages, the Company shall adjust it directly with the employee. In the event of any mistake by the Company in the amount of its remittance to the Union, the Company shall adjust the amount in a subsequent remittance. The Company's liability for any and all amounts deducted pursuant to the provisions in this Article shall terminate at the time it remits the
9
amounts payable to the designated officer or officers of the Union.
4.5	In the event of any action at law against the parties hereto or either of them resulting from any deduction or deductions from payrolls made or to be made by the Company pursuantto Article 4.2 both parties shall cooperate fully in the defense of such action. Each party shall bear its own cost of such defense except that if at the request of the Union counsel fees are incurred, these shall be borne by the Union. Save as aforesaid the Union shall indemnify and save harmless the Company from any losses, damages, costs, liability or expenses suffered or sustained by it as a result of any such deduction or deductions from payrolls.
4.6	Neither the Company nor any person acting for the Company, shall in any manner whatsoever, seek to dominate, to influence, hinder or discriminate against the lawful activities of the Union or against any present and prospective member of the Union.
4.7	Itshall continue to be the policy of the Company and the Union not to discriminate against or intimidate employees because of sex, religious, political or Union beliefs, race, colour, creed or nationality.
Article5 -GrievanceProcedure
5.1	Both the Company and the Union emphasize the desirability of a satisfactorygrievance procedure, the purpose of which will be to settle grievances promptly. For the purposes of this Agreement, grievances are understood to be any disputes, disagreements, dissatisfactions, differences, or alleged grievances arising out of the provisionsof this Agreement. It is agreed that consultation at any step in the following procedurewill take place quietly and speedily so that any possiblecause of friction may be reducedto a minimum.
10
5.2	Tb ensure prompt handling of grievances, the matter concerned should be submitted as soon as possible, but neither the Company nor the Union shall be requiredto recognizea grievance submitted by an employee afterfifteen (15) work days have elapsed from the date of the incident.
The above time limit shall not apply in those instanceswhere the grievance involves an error in employee'spay.
5.3	The employee will discuss his grievance with his Supervisor, accompanied by his Steward if he so desires. If such grievance is not settled to the satisfaction of the employee concerned, it may be submitted in writing, signed by the employee and the Chief Steward, and will be submitted to the Supervisor.
5.4	Grievancesshall be dealt with progressivelyinthe following manner:
Stepl
Withinfive (5) workdaysof the Company receiving the written grievance, the employee, with the Chief Steward, may present the grievance to the Manager of the Department, the Superintendent and/or the Supervisor.
The Company is expected to render its decision withintwo (2) full workdays, but, failingto do so, the Union may submit the grievance to the next step.
Step 2
Within fifteen (15) work days of the Union receiving the decision under Step 1, the Union President, and the Chief Steward, with or without the Steward, may present the grievance to the Manager, Human Resources or a designate, and the Manager of the Department, the Superintendent and/or the Supervisor.
The Company is expected to render its decision within two (2) full work days, but, failing to do so, the Union may submit the grievance to the next step.
11
Step 3
Within twenty (20) work days of the Union receiv-ingthe decision underStep2, the Grievance Committee may presentthe grievance to the Director of Manufacturing, the Manager, Human Resources or a designate, and the Manager of the Department, or his designate. A representative of the Union may be called in if desired by either party.
The Company is expected to render its decision within five (5) full work days, but, failing to do so, the Union may submit the grievance to Arbitration. Note 1: For the purposes of this Article, the term "work days" is understood to exclude Saturdays, Sundays, paid plant holidays, vacations and sickness.
Note 2: In the absence of the Chief Steward, his designated representative (who will be another Officer of the Union) will processthe grievance.
5.5	Any grievance not appealed from the decision in any step of the Grievance Procedure within five (5) full work days, shall be considered settled on the basis of the last decision.
5.6	The decisions arrived at by agreement between both parties under any of the above steps, shall be recorded in writing atthe time of settlement, signed by both parties, and shall be valid and binding upon the Company and the Union and the employees.
5.7	Should the Company representativefail to meet the time limits at any step of the Grievance Procedure the Union may submit the grievance to the next step of the Grievance Procedure or to Arbitration after Step 3. Should the Union fail to process the grievance in accordance with any of the above grievance steps, the grievanceshall be considered settled on the basis of the last decision, and shall not be subject to further proceeding.
5.8	The aggrieved employee may be present at any step if requested by either party. Except in the cases of discipline, a grievance initiated by more
12
than one employee, or where a number of grievances dealing with a common issue are presented, the grievors will be represented by not more than two of their number, excluding the Union Steward and GrievanceCommittee, at any step of the grievance procedure.
5.9	If an employee so desires, he may be accompanied by his Steward when being interviewedby a management representative in an office. If the employee is a Steward, he may be accompanied by an officer of the Union.
5.1	O The Company shall notify the Union President in writing within one (1) work day from the date the employee is notified in writing of his suspension or discharge. If the employee (excluding a Probationary Employee) believes that he has been unjustly suspended or discharged, he shall submit his grievance in writing to Management, through a member of the Grievance Committee, within ten (10) work days from the date that the official written notice was given to the Union President.
Such grievance shall be presented at the Second Stepof the Grievance Procedure, afterwhich it can be submitted to the subsequent steps of the Grievance Procedure and Arbitration.
5.11	It is understood that all meetings between Officers, Stewards of the Union and members of the Grievance Committee and members of Management for handling matters under the scope and jurisdiction of this Agreement but excluding negotiationsfor the renewal of a new Agreement, shall be scheduled by Management at times suitable to the operation of the business. The Union Officers, Stewards and members of the Grievance Committee affected shall be paid at their prevailing rate for such time. The above shall also apply to the aggrieved employee (except an employee who is under suspension or who has been discharged), and to any employee who is
13
required to attend such meeting as a witness with respect to the grievance.
5.12	Notwithstanding Article 5.11, an employee, who would normallybe scheduledto work, but is absent for negotiations with the Company for the renewal of the Collective Agreement or an authorized Union Convention, will receive a regular pay cheque from the Company subject to the following conditions:
(1)	The weekly pay cheque will be computed on the basis of forty (40) hours per week at the employee's applicable rate and will not include any form of overtime or shift differential.
(2)	The pay cheque will be subject to all normal pay deductions.
(3)	The Union will supply a list of employees involveda week prior to the meeting date.
(4)	The Company will invoice the Union on a monthly basis for all gross pay computed per Section (1).
(5)	The Union will remit the full amount owing by the 15th day of the following calendar month, payable to Kraft Canada Inc., Cobourg, Ontario, attention: General Accounting.
(8) The arrangementappliesto the Union Officers, representativesof Local 1230, as defined in Appendix “D” of the Collective Agreement.
5.13	Any grievance arising directly betweenthe Union and the Company may be submitted in writing by either party to the other at Step 2. Discussions betweenthe Company and the Union apartfrom the Grievance Procedure shall not preclude resort to the Grievance Procedure.
5.14	A Union Steward may discuss with his Supervisor matters which may directly affect the welfare of the department even though at the same time such matters may not constitute a grievance. In the absence of the Steward the Union President may have such discussions with the Supervisor. The
14
Union Steward may be accompanied by the Union Presidentin the event that either the Steward or the Supervisor request his presence. Similar discussions may take place between a representative of the Union or an Officer of the Union Local and a representative of Management.
5.15	Pending investigation and settlement of a grievance, the employee(s) involved will perform the duties assignedto him by his Supervisor.
5.16	The disciplinary record of employees will be reviewed every three (3) months by the chief Steward and the Associate Manager of Human Resources. Any Managementdecisionarising out of such review may be subject of a grievance.
5.17	It i s mutually agreed that subsection (6) of Section 44 of the Ontario Labour RelationsAct does not apply to this Collective Agreement.
5.18	Itisunderstoodthatany ofthetime limits referred to in Article 5, “Grievance Procedure”, and Article 6, “Arbitration”, including the initiating of a grievance and/or the invoking of Arbitration, may be extendedby mutualagreement between the Union President and the Manager, Human Resources, or their designate.
Article 6 -Arbitration
6.1	Any grievance which has been handled in accordance with Article 5 and has not been settled, and which involves the interpretation or application of any of the provisions of this Agreement, may be referredby either partyto Arbitration within a period of not more than thirty (30) calendar days, following the meeting referredto in the Step3 ofthe Grievance Procedure.
The party submitting the grievance to Arbitration shall inform the otherparty in writing and by registered mail. Forthe purpose of this clause, the date appearing on this registered mail shall be considered to be the date that the grievance has been filed for the purposeof Arbitration.
15
At the request of officials of either the Company or the Union a grievance which has not been settled in accordance with Article 5, and which has been filed for the purpose of Arbitration may be the subject of further discussion in a meeting between the respective representatives cf the parties. The object of this clause is to give the partiesan opportunity to promote the settlement of such a grievance prior to arbitration.
6.2	Within fifteen (15) calendar days from the date that the grievance was filed for the purpose of Arbitration as set forth in Section 6.1, the Union shall designate one person and the Company shall designate one person as members of the Arbitration Board. In the event that either of the parties fails to appoint its member within this period, the other party shall within fifteen (15) calendar days ask that the member be appointed by the Minister of Labour of the Province.
6.3	The representatives of the parties shall agree upon the selection, as soon as possible from the date of the last appointment, of a third arbitrator who shall be impartial and who shall act as Chairman of the Arbitration Board. In the event that the parties fail to agree upon a Chairman, the representativesof the parties will jointly request the Minister of Labour for the Province to appoint such Chairman. The Chairman will be expected to convene this Board as soon as possible.
6.4	The decision of a majority of the said arbitrators shall be final and binding upon the Company and the Union and all employees involved.
6.5	The Arbitration Board shall not be authorized to make any decision inconsistentwith the provisions of this Agreement or to alter, modify, or amend any part of it.
6.6	In the case referred to in Article 5, Section 5.10, the decision of the Board shall be governed by the following rules as agreed between the Union and the Company.
16
a)	The employee to be reinstated on a date at the discretion of the Arbitration Board with all rights accrued to him under this Agreement and with full compensation for all time lost from the date that the employee was suspended, or discharged.
b)	The employee to be reinstated on a date at the discretion of the Arbitration Board, with partial compensation for time lost as determined by the Arbitration Board, but with all rights accrued to him under this Agreement.
c)	The employee to be reinstated on a date at the discretion of the Arbitration Board with no compensation whatsoever for time lost, but with all rights accrued to him under this Agreement.
d)	The decision of Management related to said suspension or dismissal of the employeeto be upheld by the Arbitration Board.
It is understoodthat time lostwill be computed on the basisofa normalwork week and will not include any form of overtime pay.
6.7	The cost of the Chairman shall be shared equally by the parties. Each party will pay its own costs, includingthose of its representatives.
Article 7 -Representation
7.1	The Unionagreesto appointor elect, andthe Company to recognize, Stewards (a maximum of one Steward for every Supervisor) who shall be employees of the Company, but excluding employees on probation, to deal with matters affecting employees in departments in the Company's plant.
A list of these Stewards shall be supplied to the Company. The Unionwill advise the Company as soon as possiblecf any change inthis list and the Union shall confirm this in writing within five (5) work days of such change.
17
The Company shall furnish the Union with a list of Supervisors and the departmentto which they are attached. The Company will advise the Union as soon as possible of any change to this list and the Company shall confirm this in writing within five (5) work days of such change.
7.2	The Union agrees to appoint or elect a Grievance Committee, all employees of the Company, but excluding employees on probation, to deal with grievances which may not be settled in Steps 1 or 2. The Grievance Committee will be composed of three (3) members one of whom will be the Union President. The names of Grievance Committee members shall be supplied to the Company. The Company shall be advised in writing of any changes in this list within five (5) work days of such changes.
7.3	It is understood that a Steward and/or Officer of the Union is expected to assist inthe adjustment of grievances as provided in Article 5 and to transact other Union business falling under the scope of the Agreement. In order to prevent disruptions to the regular work schedule, the Steward will request his Supervisor, or in his absence his designate, to makethe necessary arrangementssothat he can be relieved from his job (with no loss of earnings) as soon as possible, but within one (1) hour. Such requestsand the time taken away from the job will be kept to a minimum. Union representatives shall not contact another employee on company time without prior permission of that employee's Supervisor.
Notel: Inthe absence cf the Steward, his designated representative (who will be another Steward or Officer of the Union) may act underthe provisions of Article7.3.
Article8- Plant Holidays
8.1	The following paid plant holidays shall be observed:
18
New Year's Day	Civic Holiday
Day After New Year's Day Labour Day Good Friday	Thanksgiving	Day
Victoria Day	Christmas Day
Canada Day	Boxing Day
Should Heritage Day be designated by the Gov-ernmentof Canadaduringthe life of this Collective Agreement, the Company agrees to recognize the day as an additionalholiday entitlement.
There shall bethree (3) additional paid plantholi-days, the observanceof which shallbe determined from year to year.
8.2	NotwithstandingArticle 19.1, the work days immediately preceding Christmas Day and New Year's Day, that is the eve of Christmas and New Year's Day, the regularschedule of hours for these days shall not exceedfour (4) hours, except for the night shift and powerhouseemployees.
8.3	If a paid plant holiday(s) falls on a day on which work is not normally scheduled, the workday before or aftersuch holiday(s) shall be observed as a substitute holiday(s). e.g. - In situations where back-to-back paid plant holidays occur on Friday and Saturday the substitute holiday for Saturday will beeitherThursday or Monday.
8.4	An employee is entitledto holiday payfor each of the paid plant holidays specified in Article 8.1, whether or not he works on such holidays, providing that:
i)	he has earnings to his credit in the week in which such paidplantholiday(s) occur, or
ii)	inthe special case of the Christmas and New Year's period, an employee has not less than six (6) monthsseniority and who has earnings to his credit in the week immediatelyfollowing such paid plant holiday(s), or
iii)	he has receiveda minimumof26 paycheques in the calendar year in which such paid plant holiday(s) occur, and
19
iv)	such paid plant holiday(s) is observed during his period of employment.
Note 1: An employee who qualifies for holiday pay under Article 8.4 (iii) will receive holiday pay in accordance with his regular rate of pay at the time the holiday(s) is observed.
8.5	However, an employee shall forfeit his holiday pay specified in Article 8.4 above, if
i)	he is scheduled to work on such paid plant holiday(s) and fails to do so, or
ii)	he is absent on the scheduled work day immediately preceding or immediatelyfollowing such paid plant holiday(s), unless such absence is excused by the Company.
8.6	An employee who is eligible to receive payments under the Sick Benefit Plan will receive holiday pay in lieu of sick benefit payments in the event that paid plantholiday(s) falls during hisabsence.
8.7	An employee receivingLTD paymentswill receive the difference between holiday pay and that received through LTD paymentfor paid holidays occurring during hisabsence and within the initial eighteen month LTD period.
8.8	An employee who works on a paid plant holiday will receive his holiday pay and in addition, he will be paidatthe rate of one and one-half (1,5x) times his regular rate for all hours worked.
8.9	An employeewho isemployedinthe powerhouse, and is required to work on one of his scheduled days off and such day is also a paid plant holiday will receive his holiday pay and in addition, he will be paidatthe rate of one and one-half (1.5x) times his regularrateforall hoursworked. Ifrequiredtowork both cf his scheduled days off and the second scheduled day off is also a paid plant holiday he will receive his holiday pay and in addition he will be paidatthe rateofoneandone-half(1.5x)times his regularrateforall hoursworked.
20
8.10	The Company will advise the Union President of those cases where holiday pay has beenforfeited.
8.11	When a paid plant holiday falls on Friday, pay chequeswillbedistributedtotheemployeeswork-ingtheThursday 11-7 shift priortotheendoftheir shift.
Article 9 - Restand Meal Periods
9.1 Two paid restperiodsoffifteen (15Jminutesdura-tion each and one paid twenty (20) minute meal period in any eight (8) hourshiftwill be scheduled in a manners^) as notto interfere with productionor costofoperafions.
9.2 An employee, who worksovertime after hissched-uledeight(8) hourday is entitled to afifteen (15) minute rest period priorto the start of such overtime. Anemployeeisentitledtoapaidmeal period of twenty (20) minutes, at hisovertime rate, if he is requiredto work more than two (2) hours after his scheduledquittingtime.
Subsequententitlementfor restand meal periods will be fifteen (15) minute rest period at his overtime rate if his work continues at least four (4) hours beyond the start of the previous rest period and a subsequenttwenty (20) minute meal period at his overtime rate if his work continuesat leastfour (4) hoursbeyondthe start of the previousmeal period. Such restand meal periods will be scheduled by the Company.
9.3	An employee who works overtime immediately beforeor after hisscheduledeight (8) hourday will beentitledtoamealallowanceoffivedollars($5.00) per meal period, providing he is requiredto work overtime more than two (2) hours. Meal allowances must be redeemedwithin thirty (30)calendardays from the date of issue. Beyond this time frame they will be invalid.
9.4	Anemployeecalledintoworkunderthe provisions ofArticle20.17will beentitledtoa mealallowance of five dollars ($5.00)for one meal, inthe eventthe
21
emergency call-in is continuous with his regular shift or, in the event the emergency call-in is not continuous with his regular shift but exceeds four (4)hours duration.
Article 10 -TooIsforTradesmen
10.1	A regular Maintenance Department employee (excluding a powerhouse employee) with at least one year's seniority and completing the trial period, shall receive duringthefirstweek of January each year, a cheque inthe amount of one hundredand fifty dollars ($150.00). Employeeswho havecom-pletedtheirtrial periodand have notcompletedone (1) year of service will receive the pro-rated tool allowance basedonthe numberoffull months of completedserviceasof January 1M each year.This tool allowance isto be usedfbrthe replacementof worn or lost tools or the purchase of new tools. It is understood such employees must maintain an adequate complementof tools forthe performance of their duties.
Tools requiredin the powerhousewill be provided in accordancewith past practice.
Article 11 - Licenses
11.1	The Company shall reimburse employees for the renewalof licensesrequired in the performanceof their duties.
Article 12 -Working Clothes
12.1	The Company shall furnish and launder all uniforms at no cost to the employee, and in addition, shall provide such other clothing and footwear which mayberequiredforworkincoldorwetareas.
12.2	AllsuchworkingclothesissuedbytheCompanyto employeeswillremainthepropertyofthe Company.
12.3	The Companywill pay upto a maximum of ninety-five dollars ($95.00) percalendaryeartowardsthe cost of safety shoes purchased by an employee. Annual credits in whole or in part, may beaccumu-
22
lated to a maximum of one hundred and ninety dollars ($190.00).
Article 13 - Appearance In Court
13.1	Employees called for jury duty or subpoenaed to appear as a witness in courtwill be paid the difference between their regular rate and the amount paid by the court for hours of work missed up to eight (8) hours per day. To be eligible for payment, the employee mustnotifyhisSupervisorassoon as such noticeis receivedandfurnish evidenceof the amount of pay received.
Article 14-Safety, Health and Sanitation
14.1	The Company shall continueto make reasonable provisionsforthe safety and health of its employees during the hours of their employment, including safety installations,personal protective equipment, and such other safety devices requiredto maintain safeworkingconditions. Disagreementspertaining to the provisionsofthis Article as towhetherornot the Company is making reasonable provisions to maintainsafeworkingconditionsmaybereferredto the Grievance Procedurebeginning at Step 2.
14.2	An employeeinjuredwhileworkinginthe Plantshall suffer no loss of earningsforthe balance of hours on the day the accident occurs or on any working day he required medical treatment if as a result of such injury he is sent home or to the hospital or for medical attention on instruction from the medical department, but if such is not possible, then by a Company representative, providedthisisnotreim-bursed by the Workplace Safety and Insurance Board. (WSIB)
14.3	An employee is requiredto meetthe standards of physical fitness established by the Company and will be subject to physical examinations given by the Company Physician at Company expense, when and as required by the Company. An employee shall be paid applicable rate for the purpose of such examinations.
23
An employee who is working on a shift other than day shift by hisown choice shall be paid his regular rate when he is requiredto have such examinations before his regularstarting time or after his regular quitting time.
14.4	The Company may transfer, require a medical leave of absence, demote or terminate the employment of an employee who in its belief, does not meet the physical conditions required by the Company, as interpretedby the Company Physician. Any disagreement with such interpretation can be submitted to a recognized medical authority. This action will be taken by the Company only after reasonable effort has been made to provide suitable employment.
14.5	In consideration of the nature of the Company's business,the Unionrecognizesthe needfor maintaining high standardsof sanitation and employee health in accordance with Federal and Provincial laws and regulations. The Union agrees to recognize and support such Company policies and pro-cedurespertainingtotheforegoing.The Company agreesto communicate to the Unionany changes to policiesand proceduresas they affect employees before implementingsuch changes.
14.6	The Company and the Union agree to establish a Plant Health and Safety Committee comprised of four Union representativesappointecby the Union andfour Managementrepresentatives. Thiscom-mitteewill meet at least once per month or more often as required. Minutesofthesemeetingswill be prepared and distributed to this Committee, the UnionPresident.Stewards.OfficersandPlantMan-agementStaff.The Companyandthe Unionagree that the Safety Program established by the parties is given principalimportance.
Article 15 -Cooperation
15.1	During the term of this Agreement the Company agreesthatthereshallbe no lock-outof employees
24
and the Union agrees that there shall be no strike. Neitherthe Union, nor any of its stewards, officers or representatives, shall order, encourage or support a slow-down or walk-out. In the event of a slow-down or walk-out, the Union will encourage the employees to resume their normal work.
15.2	The Company agrees that no employee shall be requestedor required to cross a picket line estab-lishedby the Union.
15.3	The Union Presidentshall havethe rightto poston notice boards, bulletinspertainingto meetingsof the Union, election of officers, educational, social and recreational events. The contents of such notices shall not contain anything detrimental to Company interests.
15.4	No employeeshall conduct Unionactivities during working hours except as specifically permittedin this Agreement.
15.5	The Company and the Unionwill form a Steering Committee, that will continue our Journey of Continuous Improvement toward our Vision of becominga“Bestof Class”manufacturinganddis-tributionfacility.The mandateofthisteamwill beto recommend “Work Systems” that successfully leverages people, processes, and technology, to producedramatic business resultsthrough people involvement andjob enrichment.
Article 16 - Bereavement Pay
16.1	An employee absent due to a death in his family duringperiods when he is both scheduled and avail-ableforworkshall receive the following entitlement for time lost during the period between death and three (3) calendar days following the funeral:
a)	five (5) days’ pay to attend and/or make arrangements upon the death of his/her spouse /or children.
25
b)	three (3) days' pay to attend and/or make arrangements upon the death of the employee’s parents, brothers, sisters, grandparents, grandchildren, parents-in-law, grandparents-in-law, brother-in-law,sister-in-law,son-in-law, daughter-in-law, and any other relative residing permanently with the employee.
c)	in the event that bereavement occurs during the vacation of an employee or during the Christmas holiday, one (1) day with pay will be added to his vacation period or to the Christmas holiday.
Article 17 -Vacations
17.1
An employee who has completed the service requirements listed below shall be granted a vacation and receive vacation pay as follows:
Service
Requirement
(as of date Length of
of hiring)	Vacation
1 year	2 weeks
3 years	3 weeks
10 years 4 weeks
20 years 5 weeks
25 years 6 weeks 26
Computation of Vacation Pay 4% of wages earned for the year ending December 31 st of previous year 6% of wages earned for the year ending December 31 st of previous year 8% of wages earned for the year ending December31st of previous year 10% of wages earned for the year ending December 31 st of previousyear 12% of wages earned for the year ending December 31 st of previousyear
17.2	For each week of vacation, an employee will receive a minimum of forty (40) hours' pay at his hourly rate, providing that the employee has fulfilled the following active employment requirements:
a)	the employee has worked during the calendar year in which the vacation is taken;
b)	the employee has receivedtwenty-six (26) pay cheques during a consecutive fifty-two (52) week period measured from any point in the calendar year in which the vacation is taken.
17.3	Receipt of sick benefits, LTD benefits within the initialeighteen(18)monthsLTD period, andWork-place Safety and Insurance Board compensation payments shall be considered to be the equivalent of pay cheques infulfillingthe active employment requirements.
17.4	On termination of employmentwith the Company, an employee shall be entitled to vacation pay as follows:
1)	If the employee has received a vacation with pay in the current calendar year:
a)	for an employee hired prior to January 1, 1977; no further entitlement
b)	for an employee hiredsubsequentto January 1, 1977; the applicable percentage under Article 17.1 of wages earned in the current year up to the date of termination.
2)	if the employee has not received a vacation with pay in the current calendar year, but has fulfilled the active employment requirements under Articles 17.1 and 17.2:
a)	for an employee hired prior to January 1, 1977; full entitlement under Articles 17.1 or 17.2
b)	for an employee hiredsubsequentto January 1,1977; entitlement underArticles 17.1 or 17.2 plus the applicable percentage
27
under Article 17.1 of wages earned in the current year up to the date of termination.
3)	If the employee has not received a vacation with pay in the current calendar year nor fulfilled the active employment requirements under Articles 17.1 and 17.2:
a)	for an employee hired prior to January 1, 1977; the applicable percentage under Article 17.1 of wages earned inthe current year up to the date of termination.
b)	for an employee hiredsubsequentto January 1, 1977; the applicable percentage under Article 17.1 of wages earned in the previouscalendaryear, plusthe applicable percentage under Article 17.1 of wages earned in the current year up to the date of termination.
17.5	Vacations may not be postponedfrom one year to another and made cumulative. However, an employee entitledto two (2), three (3), four (4), five (5) or six (6) weeks vacation, who does not receive hisentitlementduring the scheduled vacation period(s), may postpone one (1) week to be taken atanytime, inthe succeeding year subject to Article 17.7. Seven (7) weeks of vacation in a calendar year is the maximum entitlement.
Every effort will be made to provide employees the opportunity to take three weeks of vacation entitlement in July and August.
17.6	The occurrence of a paid holiday during the employee's vacation will either be paid as a holiday during that period or another day will be substituted for such holiday. If a substitute day is granted, it will be considered for all purposes as a holiday, and such time off may be granted at the beginning or the end <f the vacation period, or at any time following the vacation within the calendar year in which the vacation is taken.
28
17.7	Employeesare requestedto submittheirvacation weeks entitlement for the calendar year to their supervisors by April 1st. Upto and including April 1st, vacations will be granted by seniority. After April 1st, vacations will be granted on a first come, first serve basis.
Except in the case of the scheduled vacation period(s), employees who are entitled to additional vacation will be notified of their vacation period(s) as far in advance as possible.
In the case of the scheduled vacation period(s), the Unionwill be notified as soon as possible,but not later than March 15th, of the vacation year. Should subsequent changes in the scheduled vacation period(s), be necessary,e.g. the needto run certain lines due to customer requirements, the Union will co-operate with the Company in arranging staffing by qualified personnel. No allowance will be made for periods of disability occurring during vacations.
17.8	Anemployeewho becomeshospitalizedoriscon-fined to his home with an illness or injury prior to his scheduled vacation, may request that his vacation be re-scheduled to a later date. Requests must be submitted to the Medical Department and accompanied by a Physician's Certificate of Illness.
The request and the Physician's Certificate of Illness will be forwarded to the Company Physician. Each request will be reviewed on its merit, and if approved by the Company Physician, the vacation will be re-scheduled.
Article 18- Benefits
18.1	All eligible employees (excluding employees on probation and layoff) shall, subject to the condi-tionstherein, have the benefitofthe various plans outlined in Appendix “F. Throughout the He of this Agreement, the Company will not change any of the participating benefit provisionswithout prior
29
consent of the Union. The Company agrees to communicate to the Union and its members any change of benefit carrierthirty (30)calendar days prior to the effective date.
Article 19 - Hours of Work and Overtime
19.1	Eight (8) hours per day shall be the basic work day, and five (5) consecutive work days, (Mondays - Friday inclusive) shall be the basic work week of forty (40) hours, except for the Powerhouse operation, Appendix “B” and Alternative WorkSchedulesas perAppendix“H”. The normal work schedules will be 7:00 am. to 3:00 p.m.; 3:00 p.m. to 11:00 p.m.; and 11:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m.
Additional work schedules8:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. and 2:30 p.m. to 10:30 p.m. apply only to Laboratory employees. Hours of work for Powerhouse employees are covered in Appendix “B” of this Agreement.
19.2	All time worked in excess of the basic work day of eight (8) hours, before or after, shall be considered as overtime and shall be paid at the rate of one and one-half (1.5x) times the regular rate. Time worked inexcess of twelve (12) consecutive hoursshallbe paidatthe rate of one and one-half (1.5x) times the regular rate. Except in an emergency, employees will not be requested to work more than twelve (12) hours.
19.3	All hours worked on Saturday and Sunday shall be paid atthe rate of one and one-half (1.5x) times the regularrate. However, any hour(s) worked on Saturday or Sunday which are a part of the basic workweek (Article 19.1) will be paidatthe regular rate. Example being as follows: 11:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m. - regularly scheduled shift starts at 11:00 p.m. on Sunday and ends at 7:00 a.m. Monday. The overtime rate of one and one-half (1.5x) times is not paid between 11:00 p.m. and 12:00 midnight on the Sunday night.
30
19.4	Any change in the normal work schedules referred to in Article 19.1 (unless made as a result of an emergency) will be made by the Plant Manager and notice of such change will be given in writing to the Union President and stewards at least ten (10) days priorto the change, orfailing such notice affected employees will be paid one and one-half (1.5x) times their regular rate for the nextten (10) regularwork days. Copiesofsuch notice will also be posted at the time clocks.
19.5	Subjectto production requirements, every effort will be made to schedule employees, working on a multiple shift schedule, in such a way as to rotate such employees in an equitable manner.
19.6	An employeeassignedto shiftworkshall notleave his work place unless relieved by the employee assigned to the same operation on the succeeding shift, or a substitute instructedto do so by the supervisor.
19.7	An employee shall not change shifts with another employee without permission of his Supervisor.
19.8	Every effortwill be made to avoidthe necessity for overtime; however, when conditions necessitate, an employee will perform overtime work. The responseofthe employee requestedto workovertime will be on a voluntary basis. The Union agrees that when overtime is necessary it will do its utmostto cooperatewith the Company to make sure that employees are available to do the work particularly when such overtime is due to the unexpected absence of any employee. Distribution of overtime will be in accordance with Appendix“E”, which forms a part of this Collective Agreement.
19.9	Wheneveranemployee'sregular scheduled working hours are changed by the Company, that is, both starting and finishing times changed, except in an emergency, heshall be paidatthe rateofone and one-half (1.5x) the regular rate for work per-
31
formed during his first working day following such change unless the employee was informed of the change at least twenty-four (24) hours prior to the commencement of the new shift.
19.1O	Unless specifically providedfor inthis Agreement, there shall be no duplication or pyramiding of overtime payment nor shall the same hours worked be counted as part of the normal work week and also as hours for which an overtime premium is payable.
Article 20 -Wages and Job Rate Rules
20.1	Basic rates of pay during the term of this Agreement shall be in accordance with Appendix “A”.
20.2	The successful applicant to a job posting shall receive the regular rate of the job as soon as he starts his trial period.
20.3	An employee, if qualified and available, may be assigned by the Company to a job other than his regularjob for a temporary period up to thirty (30) days of work:
1)	In an emergency to fill a vacancy or to perform obviously temporary work;
2)	To replace an employee injured or absent for medical reasons;
3)	To replace an employee who is on vacation; and shall, during the period of such assignment, receive his regular rate or the rate of the jobs to which he is assigned, whichever is higher, plus a bonus of one dollar ($1.00) per hour. Assignments will be done in such a manner as to displace as few people as possible, once the needs of the operation have been met.
20.4	An employee assigned temporarily to a higher ratedjob than his regularjob will receive the higher rate for the entire work week, provided that eight (8) or more of the hours worked during that week are performed on the higher rated job.
32
20.5	When it becomes apparent that the assignment is no longer temporary, then the job will be deemed vacant and the opening will be posted.
20.6	Wien an employee is scheduled to work on a higher rated job and his schedule is changed after he starts his week, requiringhim to work on a lower ratedjob, he shall be paidthe higher rate as set up by the schedule.
20.7	Job transfers made necessary by absences of employees, by the return to work of employees from sick leave or personal leave of absence, or layoff, during any week, are not required to be made until the start of the next scheduled week.
20.8	During the development stages of a new job, the Company may assign employees excludedfrom this Agreement to work on the new operation but these employees shall not be retained when the job has reached normal operation. For the purposes of administration of this Agreement, the development of a newjob will be consideredto be completed when the job reaches normal operation.
20.9	When a job is or is to be established, or an existing job is changed, which cannot be properly placed in an existing classification by mutual agreement, management will establish a classification and rate on a temporary basis.
20.10	Written notification of the temporary rate and classificationwill befurnishedtothe Union President.
20.11	The new rate and classification shall be considered temporaryfor a periodofthirty (30) calendar days following the date of notification to the Union President.
20.12	During this period (but not thereafter) the Union President may request the Company to negotiate the rate for the classification. The negotiated rate, if higherthan the temporary rate, shall be applied retroactively to the date of the estab-
33
lishment of the temporary classification and rate. If no request has been made by the Union President to negotiate the rate within the thirty (30) calendar day periodthe temporary rate and classification shall become a part of the wage scale.
20.13	If the Company and the Union are unable to agree on a rate and classification for a new job, or an existing job that has been changed, the disputed rate and/or classification may be treated as a grievance and either referred to a single arbitrator selected by the parties or referred to the Pay Equity Commission. In the event that the partiesfail to agree upon an arbitrator,the parties will jointly request the Minister of Labour for the Province to appoint such arbitrator. The arbitrator will be expected to convene a hearing as soon as possible.
20.14	It is specifically agreed that the arbitrator will have no authority to alter or modify the existing rates and classifications but he shall have the authority, subject to the provisions of this agreement, to determine the new rate and/or classification.
20.15	If the arbitratorsets the new rate higher than the temporary rate it shall be applied retroactivelyto the date of the establishment of the temporary rate and classification.
20.16	When the rate ofa job is lowered as a result of changedjob content and re-evaluation, then the incumbent shall continue to receive the former rate, that which existed at the time the rate was lowered,while he continued on thatjob. Continuance on the job shall be broken by bidding off or requests for transfer by the employee. A new incumbent on that job shall receive the established lower rate for the job.
20.17	An employee, called in to work from off the premises for an emergency, shall be paid the applicable rate for all hours worked with a minimum of four (4) hours' pay at such rate, for time
34
spent on the emergency outside of his regular schedule of hours. His work shall be through when the emergency is over, but in the eventthe emergency is not over atthe time the employee’s regular shift begins, then the employee shall be paid at his regular rate. Hours paid or refused for an emergency call in will be recorded as overtime.
20.18	An employee, who works on Saturday, Sunday or a paid holiday, not continuous with, before or after his regular scheduledshift, shall not be paid less than four (4) hours' pay at the applicable rate.
Article 21 - Off-Shift Premiums
21.1	A shift premium cf fifty-five cents (550) per hour will bepaidto employees scheduled andworking on the 2:30 p.m. to 10.30 p.m., 3:00 p.m. to 11:00 p.m. and the 11:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m. shifts.
Article 22 - Severance Allowance/
Closure Agreement
22.1	The Closure Agreement referredto in this article was negotiated in good faith between the Company and the Union to provide as much protection and help as possible to employees in the event of a full or partial closure.
In the event of a full or partial closure of all or part ofthe business,the Companywill notifythe Union as far in advance as possible. Such notice shall be in writing and indicate the reason for the action.
This article will at least comply with the Employment Standards Act.
22.2	In the case of partial or full plant closure, the Company shall supply the Union with a current seniority list immediately.
22.3	The Company agrees to meet with the Union to discuss the contemplated shutdown with a view to providing a solution to the problem, or jobs for
35
the employees involved. To this end, the Com-, pany and the Union will put into place a Human Resources Adjustment Committee, comprised of two Management and two Union Executive representatives,to provide out-placement services for employees. Such services would include, but are not limited to, resume writing, counseling and job search assistance. The full scope of the Committee's responsibilitieswill be defined by the Committee members. This Com-mitteewill be funded bythe Companyand remain in place for 12 months after the closure/partial closure date.
22.4	An employee, excluding an employee on probation, who is permanently laid-off or terminated due to such causes as transfer or discontinuance of the manufacture of a product, introduction of new equipment or processes, closing of the plant or part ofthe plant, or other causes which, insofar as the company can determine, permanently reduce the work force, shall be entitled to benefits under the Severance Allowance/Closure Agreement in accordance with the following provisions:
NOTE: For the purposes of this Article, a permanent layoff of the work force is understood to be a layoff that equals or exceeds thirty-five weeks in any period of fifty-two consecutive weeks.
11) The Company will advise the Union as soon as possible in advance if a permanent layoff or termination with Severance Allowance, as provided in this Article, is to take place.
2)	An employee who is eligible for Severance Allowance shall be paid an amount equal to the employee’s regular wages for eight days (8) of non-overtime work multiplied by the sum of:
a)	the number of the employee's completed years of employment; and
36
b)	the number of the employee’scompleted months of employment divided by 12, but shall not exceed fifty-two (52) weeks regular wages for a regular non-overtime work week.
3)	An employee who is permanently laid-off or terminated may elect to remain on the plant seniority listfor possible recall. Insuch cases, the Company will pay the Severance Allowance payment to the Director of the Employment Standards Branch in trust for a maximumof twelve (12) months, during which time the employee may request paymentwith a complete break in service.
4)	Severance Allowance shall not be paid:
a)	to an employee with less than three (3) years seniority;
b)	to an employee who is temporarily laid-off due to the fluctuation of volume of business;
c)	to an employee who is discharged for just cause;
d)	to an employee who voluntarily resigns from the Company's employ;
e)	to an employee who retires from the Company's employ;
f)	In the event of closing the plant or part of the plant due to Acts of nature or in times of public peril, war, disaster or any other reason of similar nature;
g)	The number of weeks of Severance Allowance will not exceed the number of weeks remaining to an employee's normal retirement date.
Article 23 - Seniority
23.1	An employee will be considered on probation until he has completed fifty (50) days of actual work within a twelve (12) month period, in the
37
service of the Company. If found unsuitable during such period, such employee will not be retained in the service of the Company. If found suitable and on completion of the probationary period the name of the employee will be placed on the seniority list dating back to the first day of the fifty (50) day probationary period.
23.2	The Company shall give a seniority list to the Union President and shall assist him in keeping his list up to date by advising him, in writing, of any changes.
23.3	When an employee is transferred by the Company to a position outside the bargaining unit, andwithintwelve(12) months inclusive from such date is returned to the bargaining unit, he shall return to the general labour classification with the seniority he held at the time the transfer first took place.
23.4	In the event of transfer of operationsto this plant from other Kraft Canada Inc. plants, employees possessing particular skills required by the operation shall be allowed to transfer into the bargaining unit with one (1) month's seniority or otherwise as a result of discussion and mutual agreement betweenthe Companyandthe Union.
23.5	Termination of employment and loss of seniority shall result from any of the following:
1.	Discharge for just cause by the Company.
2.	Resignation.
3.	Retirement.
4.	Continuousabsenceforthree (3)dayswithout any contact being made with the employee's immediate supervisor or his representative unlessinformationis furnished showing it was impossible to provide such contact.
5.	Failure to report for work in accordance with a notice of recall or within ten (10) working days after registered mailing date of such notice, whichever is later.
38
6,	Continuouslayofffora periodof35 weeks in any period of 52 consecutive weeks.
7.	Employee is employed elsewhere while on leave of absence. This section does not apply to those employees granted a Pre-retirement Leave of Absence as per Article 26.10(b) of this Agreement.
The Company will be entitled to rely upon the last address and telephone number of an employee as shown inthe Company records. Employees shall notify the Company promptly of any change of address or telephone number.
Article 24 - Posting and Filling of Positions
24.1	All job vacancies, which needto befilledformore than thirty (30) work days shall be posted for three (3) work days. Exceptionwill be madefor those jobs listed inAppendix“C”, General Labour in Appendix “A”, and those jobs associated with special production runswith specificstarting and ending dates covering a period of up to sixty-five (65) work days. The sixty-five (65) work day limitation may be extended by mutual consent.
24.2	Seniority, aptitude and ability shall be the determining factors in selecting applicants. Seniority shall be the governing factor when aptitude and ability are considered by the Company to be equal.
24.3	(a) The successful applicant on a bid job shall
be considered to be on trial for a period not exceeding thirty (30) work days. No more than thirty (30) work days will elapse between an employee beingawarded a bid and starting the job. An employee, who fails to qualify for the job, shall be returned to his former classification/position.
(b) The successful applicant is an employee who has exercised his bidding rights under this Agreement, and has been awarded the
39
bid job and has actually commenced working on such job.
24.4	An employee must decide during his acceptance period if he wishes to continue on the job or return to his former classification. Groups one (1), two (2)and three (3)-the successful applicant shall be considered to be on a trial period, notto exceed thirty (30) work days. The acceptance period for the employees in these Groups will be the first five (5) work days, of the thirty (30) work day trial period.
Groupsfour (4)andfive (5)and Laboratory Technicians - the successful applicant shall be con-sideredto be on a trial period, not to exceedthirty (30) work days. The acceptance period for the employee will be the first ten 1O) workdays, prior to the start of the thirty (30) work day trial period.
24.5	An employee may bid on any job opening, but be the successful applicant only three (3) times during any twelve (l2)m onth period, commencing with the date of his first successful job bid. However,asuccessful applicantofajob ingroups four (4)or five (5)and Laboratory Technicians, may not bid again for a period of nine (9)months from the date of his successful bid. Only exception to this section will be for an employee who has lost his bid job in groups four (4)or five (5) and LaboratoryTechnicians due to a lay-off per Article 24.9. On his return to work he will be allowed the opportunity to bid again from the date of his return from lay-off.
24.6	(a) Where the job opening pertains to a new
processand/or new equipment, and training is required, the applicants may be pre-tested prior to their training period and evaluated uponcompletionof suchtraining.This will be done in order to determine the employee’s ability to satisfactorily perform the duties of the job.
40
(b) In a department where new processes and/ or new equipment is installedwhich will parallel and/or duplicate existing processes and/or equipment operating personnel, who perform similar jobs in the Unit will be given the first opportunity, by seniority, to meet the qualifications required of the job. These employees will be pre-tested prior to their training period commencing and evaluated upon completion of the training.
For job openings pertainingto groups one (1), two (2) and three (3), the acceptance period will be first five (5)work days of the thirty (30) work day trial period. For job openings pertainingto groups four (4)and five (5), the acceptance periodwill beforten (10) work days prior to the start of the thirty (30) work day trial period.
If there is a successfulapplicantfrom within the Unit, the job will not be posted plantwide.
24.7	In the event there are not sufficient applicants for postedjob opening(s), availableemployee(s) will be assigned to suchyacant job(s), due regard being paid to seniority and qualifications. The employee(s) will continue on such job(s) until he is a successful applicantto a job opening which has been posted in accordance with Article 24.1 or reassigned by the Company or displaced by successful applicant(s) on subsequent bid(s).
24.8	An employee unable to perform previous duties due to injury receivedwhile in the employ of the Company, or an employee of long service who has become unable to handle his job, may be reclassified and will be given such other work as is available and which he is capable of performing in the opinion of the Company Physician.
24.9	In the event of a lay-off, an employee on a bid job will continue to hold his rights to return to
41
such job when it is again open to him, providing that his lay-off is not more than thirty (30) continuous work days.
24.10	Any employee absent for six (6) consecutive months due to illness or injury will have the status of his absence reviewed with the Medical Department by his Department Manager. If the results of this review indicate that the employee will not be returning to his job within a reasonable periodoftime, thenthejob, if requiredto be filled, would be posted as per Article 24.1 Upon return to work, the employee will be reclassified as General Labour or Central Maintenance. Any rights to the Bid or Advice Notice job will be lost, however he will receive rate protection for twelve (12) months from the date of his first absence.
Article 25 - Reduction and Recall of Plant Work Force
In the event of a reduction in the regular work force, the first remedy will be as follows:
Regular incumbents of jobs affected will receive rate protection and shall receive not less than the hourly rate of his bid job, until he can be returned to his bid job or until he bids out of his current position, subject to the following conditions:
a)	An employee, whose rate is protected, may be assigned by the Company to any available job opening, due regard being paid to seniority and qualifications.
b)	In the event an employee, on a protected rate, is assigned to a higher rated job, he shall receive the higher rate while performing such job.
c)	An employee, on a protected rate, will be assigned to any available job opening first, irrespective of seniority.
25.1
i)
42
d)	If an employee, whose rate is protected, fails to acceptan assignmentin accordance with Section (a) and (c) above, he shall forfeit his rate protection and shall be paid the rate of the job he is assigned.
e)	An employee will be scheduled back on his bid job when it is again available providing the job is not down for more than twelve (12) consecutive months, or providing he has not bid out of his current bid position. An employee whose bid job is down for more than twelve (12) consecutive months will lose his rights to such job.
f)	An employee scheduled back on his job under Section (e) above will renew his rights to rate protection should his job go down again as a result of a business fluctuation.
g)	In the event that an employee, whose rate is protected, bids for and is the successful applicant to a job opening which has been posted in accordance with Article 24.1 he forfeits his claim to his former bid job under the terms of either Article 24.3 or 24.4 above.
h)	In the special case where an existing job(s) is changed creating a new job, displaced incumbent(s) will be given the opportunity to fill the new job in accordance with Article
24.2	priorto posting the new job.
i)	The Company shall adjust the work force within a department in proportionto the work available or expected. To provide employees with work, the Company shall be free to distribute work within departments and to transfer employees of one department to another with reasonable consideration given to extreme changes in the physical requirements of the work to be done.
j)	The Company expects and the Union agrees that employees will conscientiously perform whatever tasks may be assigned to them. If
43
25.2
(i)
(ii)
(iii)
any employee declines to perform the task assigned to him, the Company shall be absolved of its responsibility to provide work to that employee for such hours so lost by him. If, following the reassignmentof regular employees as in Article 25.1, there is a further need to reduce the workforce, the following remedy will apply to regular employees, other than those employees described in Article 25.3.
In the event of a layoff, providing the employee is able to do the job, the order of layoff will be:
(a)	All Students first and then Temporary Employees.
(b)	Probationary Employees - according to most recent date of hire.
(c)	Employee with the lowest plant seniority, providing the remaining employees with more seniority are able to do the work available.
Where necessary, training will be provided for the senior employee whose position has been cut back, in order for the employee to assume a junior position. The only exception would be those positions where training must be done outside the normal plant environment, such as maintenance trades, stationary engineers and laboratory technicians.
The Company may keep the most senior qualified employee on the job for the purpose of training more senior employees only until training is completed.
All employees (excluding employees on probation) shall be given a minimum of five (5) work days' notice of layoff or five (5) days' pay in lieu of notice, except in an emergency, as defined in Appendix “D”.
The Company will provide the Union President with a list of employees to be laid off or recalled, or any cancellation of such notices.
44
25.3	If, as described in Article 25.2, it becomes necessary to further reduce the workforce, employees hired prior to January 01, 1988 will have the option of selecting termination and severance allowance underthe provisions of Article 22, or lay-off by seniority.
If termination and severance allowance are selected, the employee will have no recall rights. If lay-off is selected the provisions of Articles 18.1, 20.7, 23.5, 24.10, 25.2 (ii) and (iii) and
25.4	will then apply, and the employee will have recall rights.
Employees covered under Article 25.3 will be given a minimum of five (5) workdays’ notice of lay-off or five (5) days’ pay in lieu of notice. Employees with more than five (5) years' seniority, shall be given notice, or pay in lieu of notice, as follows:
Service	Notice
More than 5 yrs. less than 10 yrs. 7 days 10 yrs. lessthan 15 yrs.	10 days
15 yrs. or more	15 days
The only exception will be in the case of an emergency, as defined in Appendix “D".
25.4	i) Employees who have been laid off in accord-
ance with Article 25.2, will be returned to work in the reverse order in which they were laid off, providedthey are able to do the work available, given the training outlined i n Article 25.2.
ii) Employees who have been laid off in accordance with Article 25.3 will be returned to work in the reverse order in which they were laid off.
Article 26 - Leave of Absence
26.1	Requests for leaves of absence without pay must be made in writing with the reasons shown and be received by the Company at least sixty
45
(60) calendar days prior to the commencement date of the leave. The employee shall be advised of the Company's decision in writing with a copy to the Union at least thirty (30) calendar days prior to such commencement date.
26.2	Leaves of absence may be granted by the Company for good and sufficient personal reasons, except when the efficient operation of the business would be adversely affected.
It is agreed that the discretionary powers vested in the Company to consider such request for leave of absence will be exercised only in respect to the operating needs of the business, subject to the grievance procedure.
26.3	Leaves of absence, except those granted for personal disability or for service in the Armed Forces, may not exceed four (4) calendar weeks without breaking seniority.
In the event that the employee feels he requires additional time off, he may apply for an extension, but his application must be made at least two (2)weeks priorto the termination of hisorigi-nal leave of absence.
26.4	Any employee member of the Union elected or appointed to a Union Office will be granted a leave of absence without pay not to exceed twelve (12) calendar months without a break in continuity of Company service. The request for this leave, where possible, will be submitted at least fifteen (15) days prior to commencement date of the leave. It is agreed that no more than five (5) members of the Union be granted such leave concurrently by the Company. An extension of such leave will be granted by mutual agreement of Company and Union prior to the termination of the original leave.
26.5	Any employee member of the Union appointed as a delegate for specific Union activities will be granted a leave of absence without pay not to
46
exceed twelve (12) calendar months without a break in continuity of Company service. Where possible this request will be submitted at least fifteen (15) days prior to commencement date of the leave. It is agreed that no more than twelve (12) members of the Union need be granted such leave concurrently by the Company. An extension of such leave will be granted by mutual agreement of Company and the Union prior to the termination of the original leave.
26.6	Any employee elected to Public Office will, upon request in writing, be granted a leave of absence without pay, not to exceed twelve (12) calendar months without a break in continuity of Company service. An extension of such leave will be granted by mutual agreement of the Company and the Union prior to termination of the original leave.
26.7	Employees will be entitled to Pregnancy Leave and Parental Leave as outlined in the Employment Standards Act.
26.8	Employees will be entitled to Adoptive Leave as outlined in the Employment Standards Act.
26.9	A leave of absence will be granted by the Company to an employee who has at least three (3) years' seniority who requests such leave for the purpose of full-time attendance at a school of recognized educational standards, but such leave shall only apply to employees, who through the authorization of their immediate supervisor and Human Resources, are furthering their education towards a career at Kraft Canada Inc. The leave shall only apply throughout the duration of a full academic year. Seniority shall accumulate while he is on such leave.
Effective on the date of the start of such leave of absence, the employee forfeits all rights to their current job classification and upon their return to work will be classified as General Labour as per Appendix “A”.
47
The employee shall be eligible for recall effective at the beginning of the second full work week following the date of receipt of his written notice of his intention to return to work. His written notice is to be addressed to the Manager, Human Resources.
26.10	(a) Leaves of absence will not be granted for the purposeof allowing an employee to take another position, try out new work or venture into business for himself. His leave of absence shall be canceled, and his employment shall be terminated if he engages in activities other than those for which the leave was granted.
(b) Notwithstanding Article 26.10 (a), an employee fifty (50) to fifty-five (55) years of age will be granted a pre-retirement leave of absence to try outretirementlifestyle. Such leave will be at the discretion of the Company, taking into consideration business needs. Employees interested in applying for this leave must submit their request on the Standard Leave of Absence Request Form, stating that their request is for the pre-retirement leave, with the start and end dates. The request is given to their Supervisor and the Human Resources Manager for approval and authorization. If the leave cannot be granted, the employee will be informed of the reason by his supervisor within two (2) weeks of submitting the request. Seniority shall accumulate while he is on such leave. The employee will retain the rights to their job classification, providing their leave is not continuous beyond six (6) consecutive months. If the leave goes beyond the six (6) consecutive months the employee forfeits all rights to their current job classification and upon return to work will be classified as General Labour as per
48
Appendix “A” or Central Maintenance for Maintenance employees. Benefits will cease during any leave period. Employees on Pre-retirement Leave will be given the option of contributing to the Pension Plan.
Article 27 -Term of Agreement
27.1	This Agreement is effective July 19th, 1998 and shall remain in effect until the 19th day of May, 2001 inclusive and from year to year thereafter unless either party gives the other, not less than thirty (30) nor more than ninety (90) days prior to such expiry date, a written notice of its intention to terminate this Agreement or seek amendments to same, in which case this present Agreement shall remain in force during negotiations for its renewal or amendment.
27.2	After either party has given written notice of its intention to terminate or seek amendments to this Agreement the parties shall meet to exchange listings of the changes desired. Negotiations shall start at least thirty (30) calendar days prior to the expiration date or such further time as the parties may agree.
27.3	The notices provided for in Article 27.2 shall be in writing and shall be sufficient if sent by registered mail addressed to the Union President, and if to the Company, to Kraft Canada Inc., Cobourg, Ontario.
49
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties have signed this Agreement on the 19th day (f July, 1998.
KRAFT CANADA INC.
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION LOCAL 1230
Appendix " A
HourlyWage Rates
Classifications
Mav 16/98 May 16/99 May 21/00 GROUP 1	$16.97	$17.33	$17.69
General Labour
Janitor - Cereals Services Cereals/Rice Janitor - Packaging Cereals/Rice Janitor- Processing Cereals/Rice Machine Cleaner - Cereals/Rice Utility Packer - Cereals/Rice
Case Piler- Desserts/Beverages Janitor - Packaging Desserts/Beverages Janitor - Sanitizer Desserts/Beverages Janitor - Facility Cleaner - Desserts/Beverages Machine Cleaner - Desserts/Beverages Packer- Desserts/Beverages Packer- Jell-0 Desserts/Beverages Sanitation Person - Desserts/Beverages Utility Packer- Displays Desserts/Beverages Utility Packer- Volpaks Desserts/Beverages
Janitor- Waste Handler Plant Services Utility Attendant - Plant Services
Utility Warehouse Custodian - Distribution Department Utility Warehouse Custodian - Receiving Department Case Piler- Certo/Desserts/Beverages Packer- Certo/Desserts/Beverages
51
Appendix "A"
HourlyWage Raies
GROUP 2	May 16/98 May 16/99 May?1/00
$17.17	$17.53	$17.89
Product Bin Operator - Cereals/Rice Sanitizer - Cereals/Rice
Tote Operator/Janitor - Desserts Tote Operator - Desserts/Beverages
Utility Operator - Plant Services Utility Person - Plant Services
GRQUE-3	Mav 16/98 Mav 16/99 Mav?1/04
$17.61	$18.11	$18.61
Line Attendant Beverages- Desserts/Beverages Operator/Packer Rovema II - Desserts/Beverages
Line Attendant - Certo/Desserts/Beverages Line Attendant Desserts - Desserts/Beverages Machine Operator Bartelts - Desserts/Beverages Material C.S.P. - Desserts/Beverages Minor IngredientCenter Flavor Blender-Desserts/Beverages Mixer #29 & #30 Desserts/Beverages Mixer #31 & #32 Desserts/Beverages Mixer #34 & #35 Desserts/Beverages Mixer/Operator - #21 - 24, #25 - 26 - 27 -Desserts/Beverages
Palletizer Operator - Desserts/Beverages Premix Mixer #28 - Desserts/Beverages Raw Material Control Service Person -Desserts/Beverages Fruitand Fibre Blender- Cereals/Rice Mixer - Certo-Desserts/Beverages
52
Appendix "A"
Hourly Wage Rates
GROUP 4	Mav 16/98 May 16/99 May 21/OQ
$18.01	$18.51	$19.01
Bulk Material & Feed Handling Operator-Cereals/Fiice
Packaging Machine Operator/Adjuster - Line #4 -Desserts/Beverages Packaging Machine Operator- Volpaks -Desse rts/Beverages Machine Operator/Adjuster Line #1 -Desserts/Beverages
Machine Operator/Adjuster Line #2 & 3 -Desserts/Beverages Machine Operator/Adjuster/Relief -Desserts/Beverages
Materials Management Support Person -D/B Packaging
Materials Management Support Person -D/B Processing
Warehouse Utility Person- Distribution Materials Management Support Person - Distribution Warehouse Material Handling- Receiving Warehouse Warehouse Receiver- Receiving Warehouse Pavan/Relief Operator - Cereals/Rice Machine Operator - Certo-Desserts/Beverages Packaging Machine Operator/Adjuster Hayssen/Rovema - Desserts/Beverages Line Operator/Adjuster - Bldg. #7 Desserts/Beverages
GROUP 5	Mav 16/98 Mav 16/99 Mav 21/00
$18.41	$18.91	$19.41
Process Operator - Cereals/Rice Packaging Machine Operator/Adjuster - Cereals/Rice Can Lines#10/14 Operator/Adjusters -Desserts/Beverages
Manufacturing Materials Co-ordinator - Cereals/Rice
53
Laboratory Technician Classifications
Mav 16/98 May 16/99 May 21/00
Lab Tech I	$17.31	$17.81	$18.31
Lab Tech II	$18.41	$18.91	$19.41
OTHER CLASSIFICATIONS
Temporary/Student rate - as per scheduled Appendix
"A"
Classifications Mav 16/98 Mav 16/99 Mav 21/00
Oiler	$17.81	$18.17	$18.53
Battery Attendant $17.81	$18.17	$18.53
TeamCo-ordinator-$1,00perhouraboveGroup5 rate
‘Plant Utility Person- during the life of this Agreement, the Company and the Union will develop roles and responsibilities for the Plant Utility Person and if they arrive at a mutual agreement will implement this classification on a pilot basis.
‘Maintenance Utility Person- for the concept cf a Maintenance Utility Person, the Company will explore how to further increase the use of this concept to assist our maintenance group to work on Capital Projects, through the utilization of employees from the Labour Pool on a more regular basis.
54
Appendix " A
HourlyWage Rates
MAINTENANCE GROUPS
Group I Group II Group III Group IV
Mav 16/98 $21.26 $21.66 $22.16 $22.41
Mav 16/99 $21.76 $22.16 $22.66 $22.91
Mav 21/00
$22.26
$22.66
$23.16
$23.41
SPECIAL MAINTENANCE CLASSIFICATIONS
Apprentice
Maintenance Services -Electrical Maintenance Services -Mechanical Stationary Engineer 2nd Class
Mav 16/98 $17.13
$22.61
$22.61
$22.16
Mav 16/99 $17.49
$23.11
$23.11
$22.66
Mav 21/00 $17.85
$23.61
$23.61
$23.16
55
Appendix “B”
Special Appendices Respecting Maintenance BatteryAttendant and Oiler classificationswill be bid on a plant-wide basis.
MAINTENANCE GROUPS Group I - must have one (1) recognized trade Group II - must have one (l)recognizedtrade and two (2) recognized skills Group III - must have two (2) recognized trades or
one (1) recognized trade and four (4) recognized skills
Group IV - must have two (2) recognized trades and one recognized skill or
one (1) recognizedtrade and five (5) recognized skills
RecognizedTrades and Skills Trades	Skills
Industrial Mechanic Millwright Sheet Metal Plumber Steamfitter Refrigeration Electrician Machinist Scales
Packaging Mechanical
Packaging Electrical
Welding
Pipefitting
Refrigeration
Material Handling Equipment Gas Fired Equipment High Pressure Welding Machining PLC
Instrumentation Electronic Electro-Tech Scales Sheet Metal
56
Appendix “B”
Recognized Trades and Skills
TESTING
The trades and skills recognized will be those that pertain to the job content as established by the Company.
-	Skill test pertainingto the job will be administered by the Company.
-	Written tests, excluding those given by a Community College, will be administered by the Company within two (2) weeks <f the written request being submitted by an employee to their supervisor.
-	Practicaltests that are given and markedinternally will be administered by the Company not more than four (4) weeks after the employee has passed the written test.
-	Practical tests that are given and marked by an outside agency will be administered by the Company not more than eight (8) weeks after the employee has passed the written test.
Training and testing for skills requiring Community College training will be conducted when the number <f individuals requesting these skills makes it economically practical for the Company.
57
Maintenance Departments
Department	Classifications
Central	-	Apprentice -	Battery Attendant -	Maintenance Services- Mechanical -	Maintenance Mechanic - Material Handling -	Maintenance Mechanic - Central -	Machinist -	Maintenance Utilities -	Sheet Metal -	Trainees
Cereals/Rice	-	Maintenance Mechanic - Packaging -	Maintenance Mechanic - Process -	Maintenance Auditor -	Oiler- Packaging -	Oiler- Processing
Desserts/Beverages	-	Maintenance Mechanic - Packaging -	Maintenance Mechanic - Processing -	Oiler -	Maintenance Auditor
Electrical	-	Maintenance Electrician -	Refrigeration Mechanic -	Maintenance Services - Electrical -	Maintenance Electrician - Scales
Site Facilities	- Stationary Engineer-2nd Class
	58
Filling of Vacancies
I.	Types of Vacancies
a)	Replacement for vacancy in present department
b)	Increase beyond the present work force
c)	Permanent increase within a group
II.	Method for Filling Vacancies
a)	After a vacancy of a type described above has been identified, the trade and skill needs t£ the area where the vacancy exists are assessed by the area Maintenance Supervisor and the Maintenance Manager. Specific plant area experience requirements will vary depending on the background of individualsin the remainderof the crew at the time when a vacancy occurs.
b)	An Advice Notice will be posted inall appropriate areas. All applications must be deposited inthe Bid Boxes located throughout the plant for vacancies in the following Maintenance Departments:
-	Central- (except Apprentices and Battery Attendant)
-	Cereals/Rice - (except Oiler)
-	Desserts and Beverages - (except Oiler)
-	Electrical
-	Site Facilities (except Stationary Engineer 2nd class).
The successful applicantwill be the person possessing the Trade and Skills requested. Fie must also be willing to train and be able to successfully complete the requirements and evaluationof departmenttraining programs. Seniority will be the determining factor if the above criteria is equal amongst applicants.
For vacancies in the following classifications -Maintenance Services- Electrical, Maintenance Services- Mechanicaland Maintenance Auditor, aptitude and ability will also be considerations. Where more than one applicant meets the basic
59
requirements of aptitude and ability for that position, then the successful applicant will be determined by seniority.
c)	If no response is receivedto an Advice Notice,the Companywill:
1)	Adjust the skill requirements: or
2)	Assign a maintenance personfrom the Central Department,or
3)	Hire someone from outside the plant.
All individualshiredfrom outsidethe plantwillenter the Maintenance Departmentwork force through the Central Department. Applicants will be se-lectedon the basis of trade qualifications and aptitude and ability. Skills will be confirmed by tests and/or observations before the end ofthefifty (50) work day probationary period. Assignments will then be made depending on crew vacancies.
d)	A vacancy which occurs followingthe transfer of a maintenance personfrom one departmentto an-otherasa resultof a responseto an Advice Notice will be filled as per II a) b).
e)	Vacancies filled by the Advice Notice procedures are not subject to the Plant job posting trial periods.
f)	Any individual wishing to respond to an Advice Notice has the rightto discuss the postedjob with the potential Supervisor.
Shift Rotation
a)	Production or maintenance requirementswill dictate shift rotation.
-	Individual skills
b)	Rotation within unit only - except Manufacturing Department.
c)	In Manufacturing Departments- rotate within similar jobs, e.g.:
-	Processing
-	Packaging
60
Temporary Assignment from Classification to Classification
a)	Low seniority with qualifications to do the assigned work.
b)	Returnto own classification by high seniority.
c)	Assignments of thirty (30) work daysor more will be filled by the advice notice system, unless assignments are extended by mutual agreement of the Company and the Union.
d)	When assignment is over, return to classification.
e)	For the purposes of this section, a Central Maintenance Mechanic is not temporarily assignedto other areas, as it is part of hisjob classification.
Maintenance Overtime
When overtime is requiredto complete a specific job, work assignment, or-project, where knowledge or direction of process is required, the employee already assigned, will be given the first opportunityto work such overtime.
This only applies in situations where continuity is required. Routine tasks will be filled as per Appendix “E”.
Reduction in the Maintenance Workforce
In the event of a reduction inthe Maintenanceworkforce within a classificationthe lowest seniority employee will be cutback, from that classification. The cutback employee will, based on his trade qualifications, exercise his overall Maintenance workforce seniority and displace the overall lowest Maintenance workforce employee, who possessesthe appropriate trade qualifications, as the cutback employee. The displaced lowest seniority employee would then exercise his overall plant seniority and be assigned in the Plant workforce. While assigned inthe Plantworkforce, the employee will have his rate protectedfor twelve (12) calendar months. While on rate protectionthe employee may be assigned by the Company to any available job opening. He will receive his Maintenance workforce protected rate, for
61
the twelve (12) calendar month period or until such time that he bids to a position outside of the Maintenance workforce duringthe period.
Inthe event that the re is an increase beyondthirty (30) work days in a classification in the Maintenance workforce the employee, who is cutback to the Plant workforce and is on his protected rate will, along with all other Maintenance workforce employees who possess the trade qualifications required, be eligible to submit an Advice Notice for the open position and become a candidate.
In the event of a reductioninthe Maintenance Electrical Department workforce within a classification,the lowest seniority employee will be cutback from that classification. The cutback employee, based on his trade qualifications in the Electrical Department, will then exercise his seniority and be assigned to replace the lowest seniority employee in the Maintenance Electrical classification inthe Electrical Department. The lowest seniority employee, who has been displaced from the Maintenance Electrical classification will exercise his trade qualifications and senioritywithin the overall Maintenance workforce. He will, with his trade qualifications displace the lowest seniority Maintenance workforce employee, possessing the trade qualifications required.
The lowest seniority cutback Electrical Department employee, who does not possess a trade to displace a lower Maintenance workforce employee, will exercise his overall plant seniority and be assigned in the plant workforce. While assigned in the plant workforce the employee will have his rate protected for twelve (12) calendar months. While his rate is protected the employee may be assigned by the Company, to any available job opening. He will receive his Electrical Department classification protected rate lor a twelve (12) month period or until such time as he bids to a position outside of the Electrical workforce during the period.
In the event that there is an increase beyond thirty (30) work days in a classification in the Electricalworkforce
62
the employee who is cutback to the plantworkforce and has his rate protected will, along with all the other Electrical workforce employees who possessthe trade qualifications required,be eligibleto submit an Advice Notice for the position and become a candidate.
ApprenticeshiPTrainingProgram
The following are the terms and conditions for the ApprenticeshiPTraining Program:
(i)	The Company will have one (1) apprentice in the Apprenticeship Program. They will determine what trades are requiredand how many apprentices are in the Program.
(ii)	The Program will meet the Provincial Government requirements for creditation.
(iii)	Employeeswho applyfor entry intothe Apprenticeship Program shall be pre-selected by education and seniority. Written and practicalqualifyingtests will then be administered to determine aptitude and ability. Seniority will be the governing factor when aptitude and ability are considered by the Company to be equal.
If none of the employees meet the educational requirementsand/or qualifyingtests, the Company will select applicants from outside the plant. Successful applicants will be chosen based on the required educational qualifications and on the basis of aptitude and ability. This will be determined by both written and practical qualifying tests. Successful applicants from within or outside the plantwill enter the apprenticeshipprogramthrough the Central Maintenance Department as apprentices.
(iv)	Employeeswho enter the Program will continueto accumulateseniority. An apprentice unableto meet the continued requirements of the Program will be reclassifiedto General Labour.
(v)	Apprentices hired from outside the plantwill be subjectto the conditions <f Article 23 on seniority. If they become unable to meet the continued
63
requirements of the Program, they will be reclas-sifiedto General Labour.
(vi)	Apprentices will receive the apprentice wage rate provided in Appendix “A”. In addition, an incremental wage adjustmenton a pro-rated basis for each successfully completed 1,040 hours is provided. On successful completionof exams for the Apprentices ProvincialTrade License, the apprentice will be reclassified to one of the Provincial Trades listed in Appendix “A” and be paid the rate for the trade required.
(vii)	Included as part of the 1,040 hours under the Program, will be those regular hours spent under the auspices of the Ministry of Colleges and Universities (toa maximumof 8 hours per day).
(viii)	Assignmentfrom classificationto classificationfilling of vacancies and shift rotation outlined in Appendix“B” above does notapply to apprentices.
PowerhouseEmployeesTwelve (12) Hour Shift Schedule
The following are the terms and conditions for the Powerhouse Employees scheduledto work twelve (12) hour shifts.
NotwithstandingArticle 8.8 - an employee whose regularly scheduled work day falls on a paid plant holiday, shall be paid at one and one half (1.5x) times his regular rate of pay, for all hoursworked, plustwelve (12) hours pay at his regular rate for the paid holiday. NotwithstandingArticle 13.1 a Powerhouse employee will receive the difference between his regular rate and the amount paid by the court for hours missed up to twelve (12) hours per day.
With respect to Article 16.1, pay for time lost due to bereavementwill be based on twelve (12) hours per day.
NotwithstandingArticle 17.1, vacations will be scheduled in blocks from the yearly shift schedule for each powerhouseemployee, includingthe relief powerhouse employee.
64
Article 17.6 - for the purpose of this Article, as it pertains toaTwelve (12) Hour Shift, an employee, who hasa paid plant holiday occur during his scheduled vacation period, will either be paid twelve (12) hours as a holiday or another twelve (12) hour day be substituted for such holiday.
NotwithstandingArticle 19.1, a Powerhouse employee will follow the posted yearly work schedule. Hours of work are 7:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m. and 7:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m.
NotwithstandingArticle 19.2, all hoursworked in excess ofthe basicwork day of twelve (12) hours before orafter, shall be consideredas overtime and shall be paidatthe rate of one and one-half (1,5x) timesthe regularrate.
An employee who is employed inthe powerhouse,and who workson hisscheduledday(s) off, will be paidone and one-half (1.5x) times his regular rate for all hours worked onsuchday(s). Ifhe works in excess of twelve (12) consecutive hours hewill be paidatthe rateofone and one half (1.5x) times his regular rate. Ifhe works on Sunday and it is his scheduled day off hewill be paid atthe rate of one and one half (1,5x) times the regular rate for all hoursworked.
NotwithstandingArticle 21.1, ashift premiumofseventy-four cents ($0.74) per hour will be paid for the shift that commencesat7:00 p.m.only. The formula for shift premium isasfollows- Article 21.1 contractcents per hour times sixteen (16) hours divided by twelve (12) hour shifts.
A relief Powerhouse employee who works a twelve (12) hour shift once a week, and also fills in for absent Powerhouseemployees, will be paid as defined i n Article 19.2 of this Agreement, until informed bythe Company that he is now working the postedyearly work schedule for Powerhouse employees.
Appendix“F Benefit Plans.
Non-Occupational Accident and Short-Term Disability Plan.
65
The benefits under this plan will be calculated on the basis of a twelve (12) hour day. For example:
Basic benefits- 75% x hourly rate x 12 = per diem rate Supplemental benefits - 60% x hourly rate x 12 = per diem rate.
Basic benefits are payable to an employee after a waiting period of sixteen (16) consecutive hours in a regularly scheduled work week. Further, if this fi rst (1 st) day following the waiting period is nota regularly scheduled work day for the employee, Basic benefits will not begin until the employee's next regularly scheduled working day.
Appendix“C”
Temporary Employees and Students
The following terms and conditions of employmentapply
to Temporary Employees.
ATemporary Employee;
(i)	occupies a job limited by the amount of work or by time with no prospect of continuing employment. The employment period will include the start date and end date of the job.
(ii)	does not participate in benefitplans norobtain seniority under the provisions of Article 23.1 of this Agreement.
(iii)	is subject to a deduction from wages due and payable in each calendar week, the regular weekly union dues.
(iv)	is eligibleto work overtime as per Appendix “E”
(v)	rates of pay will be as per Appendix " A dependent on the classification scheduled on or performing. Temporary and Student employees will be trained on any jobs within Appendix“A”thatare requiredto be filled for vacations, sickness and/or skill shortages, notwithstandingArticle 24.1 and the Temporary Bid Posting memorandum.
66
(vi)	Uponcompletionof700 hoursinthe previouscalen-dar year, Temporary employees become eligible to participateinthe KraftCanada Inc. Medicaland Dental Benefits Plan as described in Appendix “F\
KraftCanada Inc. Medicaland Dental Benefits Plan forTemporary Employees
Medicaland Dental Benefitsare available to Temporary Employees on the Company payroll who qualify for eligibility.
The eligibility requirements are as follows:
1)	A Temporary Employee must have worked 700 regular hours in the previous calendar year to claim expenses in the current year.
2)	The Employee mustalso work a minimumof 32 regular hours in each calendar month to have expenses incurred in the month payable. This means, that in order to have expenses incurred in June paid by eitherthe Medicalor Dental Plan, the Employeemusthave worked32 regularhours in June and so on for each month throughout the year.
If an Employee does not work the required 32 regular hours in a particular calendar month, then expenses incurred in that monthonly will not be paid.
Eligible dependents may claim expenses as well, providing that the employee has met the requirements outlined above. Eligible dependents are defined as spouse, and dependent children up to age 19 if not a student, or up to age 25 if a full-time student.
It i s importantto note that becausewe mustwait untilthe end of the monthto determine ifthe32 hours have been worked by each employee, and advise the Benefits Carrier accordingly, that expenses not be submitted until the month following. In other words, eligible expenses for June should be submitted in July; July's expenses submitted in August, and so on.
67
To obtain reimbursement for Dental or Prescription claims, employees will complete claim forms available from the Human Resources Department.
Appendix “D”
Definitions
Employee Profile Update
Employees will be encouraged by the Company to update files once each year, including dependent children, spouses and step relationships.
Applicable Rate - The rate an employee would have been paid had he been at work.
BasicWork Week - Monday through Friday, inclusive. Calendar Week - Monday through Sunday inclusive. Common-Law- Employee who has co-habitated with an individualfor a periodof not lessthan three (3) years, and who has publicly represented the person as their spouse during this period.
Dependent Children - (including Common-Law and Step Children Relationships)
-	a child who is unmarried and unemployed, up to the age of 19 years, or until the age of 25 years, as long as dependent and attending school; or
-	a child born of a Common-Law union; or
-	a child brought to a relationship and for whom the employee has taken legal guardianship, or legally adopted, or is totally financially responsible and the child resides in the home.
-	a child incapable ofself-sustainingemployment by reasoncf mental retardationor physicalhandicap, who is chiefly dependent upon you for maintenance and support and residing in Canada and who became so incapablebeforeattainingage 19.
The term “child” includes any legally adopted child and any stepchild who is supported solely by you and permanently resides in your household,and any other child for whom you are legally responsible for support and care.
68
Director of Manufacturing- Refers to the Directorof Manufacturing - Cobourgor hisdesignated representative.
Emergency- An Act of nature, catastrophe, disasteror any reason of a similar nature and unanticipatedcondi-tions when immediate action is necessary to prevent spoilage or loss of product or danger to persons or property. With respectto Article 20.17 only, it is understood an emergency will also include those instances where action is requiredto undertakeequipment repair.
Employee-A person holdingseniority underthisAgree-ment.
Holiday Pay - Eight (8) hours' pay at the employee's regular rate.
PayCheque- (applicableonlyto Article 8) - the following will be counted: a Regular pay cheque a Sick Benefitcheque
anLTD chequewithinthe initiall8 monthLTD period refers to paid holidays a Vacation cheque
a Workplace Safety and Insurance Board compensation payment within the initial 18 month period refers to paid holidays.
Probationary Employee - A person who does not hold seniority in accordance with Article 23.1 of this Agreement. A probationary employee is covered by all theprovisionsofthis CollectiveAgreement unlessother-wise specifically excluded under any article of this Agreement.
Regular Rate - Basic rate of pay (Appendix "A) plus shift premium when applicable.
Spouse 1. The person who is your lawfully wedded husband or wife or
2. If you do not have a lawfully wedded husband or wife, the person of the opposite sex who has resided with you in a conjugal relationship, either continuouslyfor not less than three (3) years, or in a relationship of
69
some permanence if you and the other person are the natural or adoptive parents of a child as defined in the Ontario Family Law Act.
Step Relationship - See Dependent Children These relationships will be considered immediatefam-ily if declared as such by employees on their Employee File with the Company.
Employees are required to update their files in the Human Resources Department, as any changes occur to their status.
Successful Applicant - An employee who has exercised his bidding rights under this Agreement, has been awarded the bidjob and has actually commenced working on such job.
Union Officers -The following representativesof Local 1230
Union President Secretary Treasurer Recorder 1st Vice-president 2nd Vice-president 3rd Vice-President 4fh Vice-president
Union President - Refers to the actual Presidentof Local 1230 or his designated representative.
Licensed Practitioners - In order for expenses of a practitionertobe considered eligiblefor reimbursement, the practitioner must be licensed and the services rendered must be within the scope of that license.
Reasonable and Customary - Reasonable and customary charges are the amounts measured and determined by comparing them with charges customarily made for similar services and suppliesto individualsfor similar medical condition in the locality concerned.
70
“HOSPITALIZATION”
Hospitalization occurs when the employee:
a)	is admitted to and is confined in a duly constituted hospital as a bed patient for care and treatment of sickness, or hurt, injury or damage to the body as a result of an accident
b)	is admitted to a duly constituted hospital or medical facility for surgery and released as an outpatient
c)	is scheduled to a follow-up examination and/or procedure. The employee will be paid appropriate sick pay starting the first day if he has attempted to schedule a follow-up examination or procedure on his own time, but is unable to do so. The conditions will be that the employee has been scheduled by their attending physician to attend a session after returning to work from a long term illness of six (6) months or more and who musttravela longdistance to get to and from the examination/procedure.
Documentation of the appointmentfrom the attending physician must be provided to the Medical Departmentbeforesick pay paymentsare approved. Disability
“Disability” means the inability or capacity to perform regular work assignments resulting from sickness or accident not arising from, or in any way related to, the course of employment. Any disability arising out <f or in the course of employment, which is compensable underthe Workplace Safety and Insurance Board Law of the Province, is not a disability under this plan. Hourly Rate of Pay
The employee's basic rate of pay (excluding off-shift premiums).
71
Appendix “ E Overtime Distribution
The parties shall co-operate and make every effort to distribute overtime as evenly as possible. However, the number of overtime hours offered to an employee within any twenty-four (24) hour period remains within the discretion of the Company.
Hours of overtime worked or refused by an employee shall be recordedweekly and postedthe following week. Hours of overtime worked or refused by an employee will be accumulated over a period of six (6) months commencing with the first work week of the calendar year.
For the purpose of the administration of Appendix “ E Temporary Employees and Students are considered as 'employees.?
Overtime shall be offered to the employee with the lowest number of recorded hours in each of the categories in the following priority:
(i)	Bid and Currently Performing or Temporarily Assigned under Article 20.3
Among employees, qualified, available and currently performing and holding the bid in the job in which overtime is required; or,
Among employees temporarily assigned off their bid job, under Article 20.3, in which overtime is required.
(ii)	Currently Performing the Job
Among employees, qualified, available, and currently performing the job in which overtime is required.
(iii)	Currently Working inthellnit
a)	Among employees available and working in the Unit, who have been cutback from their bid job, within this Unit where overtime is required.
b)	Among employees, qualified, available and currently working in the Unit in which overtime is required.
72
(iv)	Currently Working in the Department
Among employees, qualified, available, and currently working in the Department in which overtime is required.
(v)	Mandatory Protection of the Work
Inthe eventthat all employees referredto in (i), (ii), (iii) and (iv) above refuse the overtime, it is agreed such overtime will be worked bythe employee first offered the overtime, providing such overtime does not exceed four (4) hours in a day, or eight (8) hours in a calendar week. The exception to this section, will be for employees involved in a Flexible Work Schedule that involves Saturday and Sunday as part of the regula: schedule in which case Mandatory protection of the work will not be applied. Overtime Shift Scheduling
During the basic work week, overtime offered will be assigned where possible to run consecutive to an employee’s scheduled shift. Forweekend overtime, available shifts will be filled in sequence (11-7, 7-3, 3-11) by employees in priority order, providingthe shiftassigned would not result in an employee working sixteen (16) consecutive hours.
Selection Error
Should aselectionerroroccur, the missed employeewill be accorded the next available overtime opportunity. A grievance respecting a selection error may be submitted atStepTwo, the DepartmentManagerand Manager of Human Resources level of the grievance procedure. Overtime Refusal Letter
Employees who do not wish to work overtime must notify the Company, in writing, of their intent. These employees will not be asked or scheduled to work overtime (unless it is necessary to protect the job) until the employee notifies the Company, in writing, that he wishes to work overtime. Such employee will assume one hour more than the highest hours of overtime in his bid classification or his accumulated hourscf overtime whichever is greater.
73
Should it become necessaryto ask these employees to work overtime to protect the job, employees will be asked to work in the following order if there are more than one employee eligible with an Overtime Refusal Letter on file:
a)	employee with the lowest recorded hours of overtime
b)	if employees do not have any recorded hours, then the most senior employee.
Note: Overtime hours worked and refused will be recorded as per paragraph 2 of the Overtime Distribution section of Appendix "E", for employees in this category who become eligible for overtime to protect the job. Team/Committee/Project Overtime Distribution When an employee volunteers to be a member of a Team/Committee and overtime is requiredto participate in such Team/Committee Meeting and/or specific project, where knowledge of the process/activity is required, theTeam/Committee employee will be given the opportunity to work such overtime, notwithstandingthe other provisions of Appendix "E" and Appendix “G”. Paid Plant Holidays
Paid Plant Holidays will be treated and recorded as overtime.
Department& Units are as follows for the Manufacturing, Distribution Warehouse,
Receiving Warehouse, Plant Services and Maintenance Departments.
Department	Unjl§
Central Maintenance - Apprentice
-	Battery Attendant
-	Maintenance Services -Mechanical
-	Maintenance Mechanic -Material Handling
-	Maintenance Mechanic-Central
-	Sheet Metal
-	Trainees
74
Cereals/Rice
Desserts/Beverage
Distribution Warehouse Electrical
Plant Services Receiving Warehouse Site Facilities
Machinist
Maintenance Utilities Packaging
Maintenance Packaging Processing
Maintenance Processing Oiler- Packaging Oiler- Processing
Packaging
Processing
Maintenance Packaging Maintenance Processing Oiler
Distribution
Maintenance Electrician Refrigeration Mechanic Maintenance Services Electrical
Maintenance Electrician-Scales
Plant Services Receiving
Stationary Engineer-2nd Class
APPENDIX “F” BENEFITS
PREAMBLE
An overview of the benefit plans available are given in this Appendix as an indicationof the coverage provided. Booklets on all plans provided by the Company for its employees give full details of their purpose, coverage and the limits applicable. These booklets should be referred to for clarification of eligibility, coverage and limits.
Thedefinitioncf eligibledependentsfortheKraftCanada Benefit Plans is covered in Appendix “D”.
75
Appendix “F” Benefit Plans
1. Kraft Canada Medical Plan
Eligibility
The KraftCanada Inc.Health Care Plan is offered to all Regular Full-Time employees and Temporary employees as per Appendix “C” of this Agreement. Regular Full-time employees and their eligible dependents are covered under this plan upon completion of their probationary period.
Effectivedate and duration of the Plan is August 3°*. 1998 to June 29K 2001
Cost of the Plan
Employees have the choice of the Base Plan coverage (fully paid by the Company) and optional coverage atthe costs below. When the Base Planand/or the Base Planplusany of the Options are chosen at the sign-up date, the option(s) chosen are locked in until June 29,h, 2001. The only changes allowed during this locked in period will be for "life style” changes such as single to family and/or family to single coverage costs as they pertain to the locked in option. Proper documentation must be completed to facilitate this change.
Costs for the Base Plan and Optional Plans are as follows:
*Deductionsbased on 48 pay periods ■ Total amount paid annually remains the same.
Weekly
Base Plan Optional Plans	Premiums
(fully paid by (Premiums paid Company) by employee) Base Plan (only)
Base Plan + Option A Base Plan + Option B Base Plan + Option C
$0.00 $0.00 $1.03	$2.17
$1.52	$3.20
$0.76	$1.84
76
Base Plan Optional Plans
Base Plan + Base Plan + Base Plan + Base Pian + Base Plan + Base Plan +
Option D Option D
Option A+Option C Option A+Option D Option B+Option C Option B+Option D
Weekly
Premiums
Single Family $1.41	$3.52
$1.41	$3.52
$1.79	$4.01
$2.44	$5.69
$2.28	$5.04
$2.17	$5.42
Base Plan Coverage
The Base Plan Coverage is as follows:
Hospital Care to a maximum of $10,000/year Prescribed Drugs up to a maximum of $1200/year Out of Country to a maximum of $25,000/year
Plus
Core
Benefits
Paramedical Services up to	1
$500/year
Vision Care $150 every 2 years Hearing Aids $300 every 3 years Ambulance/Laboratory costs up to $1000/year
Nursing and Prosthetic Services up to $10,000/year	1
Supplemental
Benefits
Additional Coverage for Core Benefits Base Plan Plus
"A"Option- Unlimited excess Drug coverage “B” Option - Unlimited excess Core Benefits coverage (includes option "A")
77
Additional Coverage for Supplemental Benefits Base Plan Plus
“C” Option- ParamedicalServicesupto $700/year Vision Care $200 every 2 years Hearing Aids $500 every 3 years Ambulance/Laboratory costs up to $1500/year
Nursing and Prosthetic Services up to $15,000/year
“D” Option- ParamedicalServicesupto $900fyear Vision Care $300 every 2 years Hearing Aids $1000 every 3 years Ambulance/Laboratory costs up to $2000/year
Nursing and Prosthetic Services up to $20,000/year
Eligible Expenses
The Kraft Canada Inc. Medical Plan reimburses eligible expenses, providedthese expenses are reasonable and customary, and that they are medically necessary and prescribed by a physician.
Hospital Expenses
Private, Semi-Private and Convalescent room for hospitals subsidized by the government. Underthe Base Planthisdoesnotinclude private unsubsidized hospitals.
Option “B” provides additional coverage over the $10,000/year benefit underthe Base Plan for semiprivate and convalescent care (it does not provide for private room coverage), butitdoescovbrthe new private hospitalsat semi-private rate, a rate which is establishedby taking the average semi-private rates of the community in which the hospital operates.
No deductible applies to hospital expenses.
Out of Country Coverage
Our of Country coverage continues to cover the same type of expenses that were paid under the previous plan (as per “Emergency Travel Assist-
78
ance”). The Base Plan option covers a maximum of $25,000/year for Out of Country coverage costs. The Base Plan plus Option “B” covers unlimited excess costs for Out of Country coverage as per the Brochure. Also covered are all the same drugs that are covered in choice “A”.
Medical Expenses
The plan reimburses 100% of the following eligible medical expenses:
Base Plan Option- up to S1200/vear Base Plan plus Option "B” - unlimited costs/vear Drugs and medicines which require a prescription by law to be obtained.
Emergency treatment of an illness or accident occurring while outside Canada is reimbursed on a reasonable and customary basis. Emergencytravelassistanceexpenses(seeleaf-letentitled“EmergencyTravel Assistance”fbrfull details).
Supplemental Benefits - eligible expenses remibursed at 100%
Maximum Costs available for these Benefits are based on the choice of Plan the employee signs up for.
The definition of an eligible expense remains the same as in the Base Plan (the Base Plan does not cover expenses paid in whole or in part by the government, however, if the “C" or “D” Option(s) are chosenthese will pickupexpensesnotfully covered by the government. e.g. The excess fee charge for chiropractors in Ontario will be covered, providing the fee charged i s reasonable and customary for the services provided.
Private-duty nursing. Services must be recommended by a physician and rendered by a registered nurse who is not a relative and does not ordinarily reside in your home.
79
Charges for roomand board ina licensedchronic care facility up to a maximum reimbursementof $10 per day for a period of 120 days per calendar year.
Charges for the use of a licensed ambulance for local transportation to and from the nearest hospital. Emergency transportation by airline to and from the nearest hospitalwithin your province of residence and equipped to provide the required medical services are also eligible, subject to a maximum equal to an economy airfare. Paramedical services by a licensed physiotherapist, psychologist, osteopath, podiatrist, chiropractor, naturopath, acupuncturists or speech therapist, up to a maximum reimbursementof the plan option chosen each calendar year. In addition, covered expenses include the cost of one x-ray per practitioner per calendar year. To be considered eligible expenses, the services provided must be within the scope of the license held by the practitioner.
Laboratory tests and x-rays for diagnosis not covered by any government plan.
Prescription contact lenses, eyeglasses and frames and eye exams up to a maximum reimbursement of the chosen optional plan per person .every 2 years.
Dental services required to repair natural teeth damaged as a result of an accident up to $5,000, provided the repairs commence within three months of the accident.
Hearingaids up to a maximum reimbursementof the chosen optional plan per person every 3 years.
Charges for:
Rental or purchase of braces and crutches, and purchase or prostheses required for therapeutic use.
80
Rentalor purchase of a wheelchair, hospital bed, or oxygen equipment required for therapeutic purposes.
Orthopedic shoes and orthotics prescribedby a licensed physician and required to correct a diagnosed physical impairment. Once the first expense has been paid for by the plan, the cost of replacementwill only be covered if it i s required as a result of pathological change.
Blood sugar monitoring devices for insulin dependent diabetics, when prescribed by a physician, upto a lifetime maximum reimbursementof $200.
Coordination of Benefits
If you or your dependents are covered by more than one plan providingsimilar benefits, benefits under this plan will be coordinated so that claims can be made under both plans but in no event could you receive benefits in excess of expenses incurred.
Exclusions
The Krait Canada Inc. Medical Plan does not cover:
Services and supplies not included in the list of eligible expenses.
Charges for general health examinations Charges for eye examinations, except in provinces where Medicare does not cover this expense.
Services paid for unde.r any federal or provincial government legislation.
Cosmetic surgery or treatment, including hospital confinement for such surgery or treatment. Charges related to any disability for which benefits are provided under any Workplace Safety and Insurance Board compensation legislation. Dental workwhere a third party i s responsible for payment of such charges.
81
Charges related to injury resulting directly or indirectly from war, declared or not, insurrection or riot, or hostilities of any kind.
Charges for services or supplies which are furnished without the recommendation and approval of a physician acting within the scope of his or her license.
Charges related to intentionally self-inflicted wounds.
Drugs, sera, injectabledrugs or suppliesthat are not approved by Health and Welfare, Canada, and that are experimental or limited in use. Charges which are not medically necessary for the care and treatment of any existing or suspected injury, disease or pregnancy.
Charges made by a physician for travel, broken appointments, communicationcosts, completion of claim forms or physician's supplies.
Charges which would not normally have been incurred but for the presence of this coverage or for which the employeeordependentisnotlegally required to pay.
In the Event of Disability
If you are absent from work due to injury or illness, coverage under the Kraft Canada Inc. Health Care Plan is maintained for you and your eligible dependents, atnocostto you, for as long as you are receiving Kraft Canada Inc. disability benefits.
In the Event of Death
In the event of your death while an active Kraft Canada Inc. employee, coverage under the Health Care Plan continues for your eligible dependents for three months from your date of death.
a2
Termination of Employment
Coverage ceases for you and your eligible dependents at the end of the month inwhich you terminate your employment with Kraft Canada Inc. Out-of-Canada coverage ceases on the date of termination of employment. For the status of benefits on retirement, see the Pension Plan Provisions of this document.
2. Dental Plan Eligibility
The Dental Care Plan is offered to all Regular fulltime employees and Temporary Employees, as per Appendix “C” of this Agreement. You and youreligi-ble dependents are covered under this plan upon completion of your probationary period.
Cost of the Plan
Kraft Canada Inc. pays the full cost of the coverage provided by the plan for you and your eligible dependents.
Eligible Expenses
The KraftCanada Inc. Dental Plancovers80% cf the eligible expensesfor three categories of dental care:
Basic services Major restorative work Orthodontic treatment
The maximum amount reimbursed for the first two categories combined is $1,200 per person per calendar year for you and each of your eligible dependents. The lifetime maximum benefit for orthodontic treatment is $2,000 per person. Maximum eligible expenses are established in accordance with the current fee guide of the dental association. When several treatment possibilities exist, reimbursement of eligible expenses may be determined based on an alternate benefit.
83
Basic Services
Diaanostic
Consultations
Single diagnostic x-rays
Completeseries of x-rays: once every 24 months
Oral examinations: once every six months
Study casts: once per year
Preventive
Scaling and polishing (prophylaxis) once every six months Topical fluoride
Passive space maintainers(that do not move the teeth) for dependent children only Oral hygiene instruction once every six months Minor restorative work
Fillings (silver amalgam, silicate or synthetic restorations)
Stainless steel crowns Oral surgery
Removal of teeth, including impacted teeth and
residual roots
Anesthesia
Post operative care
Endodontics
Emergency endodontic procedures and root
canal therapy
Periodontics
Treatment of diseases of the gum and other supporting tissue of the teeth Repair or relining and rebasing of dentures including addition of new teeth.
Major Restorative Work
Gold inlavs. onlavs and crowns Note: when a tooth can be restored with silver amalgam, silicate or synthetic restorations, benefits will be determined based on the usualcosts of such a restoration.
84
Dentures and other dental appliances Note:	After initial purchase of a dental appli-
ance, replacement expenses are eligible if the existingappliance is at leastfive years old and no longer serviceable.
Orthodontic treatment
Correction of malocclusion of the teeth Full-mouth reconstruction In the Event of Disability
If you are absent from work due to injury or illness, coverage under Kraft Canada Inc. Dental Plan is maintained for you and your eligible dependents, at no cost to you, for as long as you are receiving Kraft Canada Inc. disability benefits.
In the Event of Death
In the event of your death while an active Kraft Canada Inc. Employee, coverage under the Dental Care Plan continues for your dependents for three months from your date of death.
Termination of Employment
Coverage ceases for you and your eligible dependents at the end of the month in which you terminate your employment with Kraft Canada Inc. Co-ordination of Benefits
If you or your dependents are covered by more than one plan providing similar benefits, benefits under this plan will be coordinated so that claims can be made under both plans but in no event could you receive benefits in excess cf the expenses incurred. Exclusions
The Kraft Canada Inc. Dental Care Plan does not cover:
Services or supplies that are primarily for cosmetic dentistry, e.g., bonding, bleaching and facings.
Services covered by any government plan.
85
Services or supplies not furnished by a legally qualified dentist or denturist.
Services or supplies necessitated directly or indirectly as the result of committing, attempting to commit or provoking an assault or criminal offence, or by a war or act of war, declared or not, insurrection or riot, or hostilities of any kind. Miscellaneous charges such as counseling, travel, broken appointments, communication costs or completion of claim forms.
Servicesor supplies resulting from any intentionally self-inflicted wound.
Any hospital charges for board and room and related services and supplies.
Any dental examinations requiredby a third party. Services or supplies not medically necessary. Services or supplies for implantology, including tooth implantation or transplantation and surgical insertion of fabricated implants.
3. Life Insurance Plan
An employee must sign an application form to be eligible for this Planand coverage will commence on the first of the month following completion of the probationaryperiod. Shouldapplicationnot be made within three (3)months of this initialcommencement date, the insurance company will require satisfactory evidence of insurability from the employee and his eligible dependents (i.e., spouse and unmarried, unemployed children between the ages of 14 days and twenty-five years).
a)	Amount of Term Insurance
Employee
Spouse
Dependent Child Employee Cost:
$45,000 $ 5,000 $ 5,000
Single or Family $4.75 per month.
Note 1: The amount of Paid-up Insurance purchased by an employee under the former Insurance Plan will remain in force until the employee leaves Kraft Canada Inc. or
86
retires. Atthattime, the Paid-up insurance (providingtheface amountis$100 or more) may be kept in force, or surrendered for its cash value. This cash value will never be less than the amount of the Contributions the employee had made to the Paid-up Insurance Plan.
b)	Retirement Insurance
Effective May 19, 1996, the Company will assume the full costof providingTerm Insurance coverage in the amount of ten thousand dollars($10,000), for an employee who retires from the Company, while in active employee status, on or after age fifty-five (55), with ten (10) years or more of service. This ten thousand dollars ($10,000) amount decreases by onethousanddollars($1000)eachyear, untilamini-mum of five thousand dollars ($5000).
c)	Optional Insurance
Employees have the opportunity to purchase $15,000 additional employee Life Insurance coverage at a cost of $4.88 per month, or $10,000 at a current cost <f $3.25 per month.
d)	General Provisions
i)	If you are on leave of absence for up to one year you may keep this Plan in force by continuing to make your contributions. Otherwise your coverage will terminate at the end of the month in which your contributionsstop. For reinstatement in the Plan, the insurance company would require satisfactory evidence of insurability from the employee and his eligible dependents.
ii)	LTD payments will not reduce the amountof life insurance in force just prior to the start of LTD benefits. Such insurancewill remain in force for so long as eligibility to LTD benefits continues, but not beyond age 65.
iii)	All term insurance coverage will stop at the end cf the monthin which you leave KraftCanada Inc. but if you die within the following 31 days, the full
87
amount will be paid. Also during this 31-day period you may convert all or part of your term insurance without medical examination, to an individual life insurance policy. This individual policy will be issued at the insurance company's regular rates; it may be written on any regular Whole Life Insurance Plan and may, if desired, provide a preliminary period of up to one year of term insurance coverage.
iv)	When you die from any cause, the full amount of your KraftCanada Inc.life insurancethen inforce will be payable to the beneficiary you name. You may specify that payment be made in a lump sum or in monthly i nstalments, or you may allow your beneficiary to make the choice. You may change the beneficiary at any time in the manner provided by the Plan, subject to applicable Provincial Law. The beneficiary for the dependent insurance coverage will be the employee in all cases. In those instances where both parents are employed at Kraft Canada Inc. and both are enrolled inthe Life Insurance Plan, the employee claiming the child(ren) as dependent(s) for income tax purposes will be deemed to be the beneficiary.
5. Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance Plan
The optionalAD&D planoffersafull 24 hour,365 day a year, coverage against accidents occurring anywhere in the world, whether you are on or off the job. Amount of Coverage:
Coverage is purchased in units of $10,000 and insures you and your family for death caused by accident. In addition, the Plan covers you for dismemberment in the following manner:
% of coverage
Loss of Life
Loss of two limbs
Loss of sight of both eyes
88
Loss of one limb& sight of one eye	100%
Loss of speech & hearing	100%
Loss of one limb	75%
Loss of sight of one eye	66%%
Loss of speech or hearing	50%
Loss of thumb & index finger of one hand	33%
In the event of your accidental death while insured, the amount of insurancewill be paid to the beneficiary. All other indemnities are payable to you.
Employee Coverage Can purchase up to maximum of $500,000 each (in units of $10,000)
Spouse
Coverage Can purchase up to a maximum of 50% of employee’s coverage (in units of $10,000)
Dependent
Coverage Can purchase $5,000 of coverage for dependent child
Amount of Premiums:
Employee - $0,026 per $1,000 per month Spouse - $0,026 per $1,000 per month Children - A flat .250 per month for $5,000 per
child, regardlessof how many children are insured.
Exclusions:
The AD&D Plan does not cover losses resulting from the following:
Suicide or self-destruction, or any attempt by the insured person while sane or insane;
Flying in any aircraft or other airborne vehicle as a pilot, operator or member of the crew;
Declared or undeclared war or any act thereof; Active full-time service in the armed forces of any country.
5.	Non-Occupational Accident and Short-Term Disability Plan
This Plan is fully Company paid and applies to all employees (excluding Probationary and laid-off Regular Full-Time employees) who meet the eligibility conditions:
89
a)	Elinibilitv for Benefits
To establish eligibility for benefits, an employee must show disability due to non-occupational accident or sickness by reasonably satisfactory evidence,which inthe Company'sjudgment, prevents him from performing normal work assignments.
No Supplemental Benefits are payable until an Attending Physician's Statement has been submitted attesting to the nature and severity of disability and certifying that the disability precludes the employee from performing regular work assignments.
Further, the Company, at its expense and discretion, may have a physician or nurse of its own choice examine any employee who seeks benefit payments; if in the physician or nurse's opinion the employee was able to perform regular work assignments, he will not be eligible for benefit payments. Any employee who fails or refuses to submit to such an examination will not be eligible for benefit payments. Any disagreement with the Company's decision may be processed through the grievance procedure commencing at the second step.
An employee has responsibility for informing his supervisor immediately with respectto a disability. Further, to qualify for benefits he has the responsibilityfor taking all proper stepsto insure early recovery. Such steps may include the attendance of a qualified physician and.the purchase of drugs, medicines,medical supplies and hospitalization services as necessary.
b)	Benefits
Plan Benefits are payable to eligible employees during a maximum benefitperiodof 26 weeks per disability but not morethat twenty-six (26) weeks in a calendar year, subject to the following conditions:
90
i)	Basic Benefits
An employee is credited with ten (10) days of Basic Benefits upon attainment of seniority and with ten additional days on his employment anniversary in each subsequent year of continuous employment. If employment is continuous, unused Basic Benefits may be accumulated up to a maximum of one hundred and thirty (130) days.
When disabled, an eligible employee will receive Basic Benefits of three-quarters cf his basic rate of pay, after a waiting period of two (2) scheduled work days, for as many days as he has to his credit or a minimum period of seventy-five (75)days per disability, as long as the disability is continued.
When an employee returns to work after an absence, the basicbenefitperiodof seventy-five (75)dayswill be fully reinstated afterthe employee has been back at work for at least four (4) weeks.
If he is back at work for at least a four-week period, and is then absent, due to a disability not associated with the previous disability, the minimum period of seventy-five (75) days of basic benefits will apply.
If he is absent again due to the same or associated disability that caused the first absence, and this second absence occurred before thirteen (13) weeks had elapsed since the initial absence, the disability will be considered to be the same disability, and the employee will resume Basic Benefits as if he had not returned to work.
BasicBenefitsare payableto employeesafter a waiting period of two (2) scheduled work days. Further, if the first day following the waiting period is not a regularly scheduled working day for the employee, Basic Benefits
91
will not begin until the employee's next regularly scheduled working day.
There will be no waiting period if the disability results from an accident, or from the day on which the employee is hospitalized. Further, if the employee is unable to work because of disability for fourteen (14) calendar days beginning with the first regularly scheduled working day of disability, Basic Benefits are payable retroactively for all regularly scheduled working days in the waiting period, if such benefits have not been exhausted. Should an employee leave work because of disability, the time so lostwill count as the first day of the waiting period only in those instances where he has worked one-half or less of his regular shift.
ii)	Supplemental Benefits
After all Basic Benefitsforwhichan employee is eligible have been paid, Supplemental Ben-efitsamountingto 60% of his basic rate of pay are payable to the employee during the remainder of the 26-week benefit period for the disability but notto exceed26 weeks in a calendar year.
c)	Discontinuance of Benefits
An employee who, after incurring disability, is discharged or would not have worked due to strike or suspension of employment is not eligible for Benefits after the day on which such event occurs.
Where layoff provisions exist, if you are disabled when a layoff begins, your benefits will continue for the duration of the disability, but not longer than 15 weeksfrom the date the disability began.
d)	Fmplovees Not Actively Employed
An employee who becomes disabled while on leave of absence or vacation or on lay-off, or while on strike, suspension from work or other-
92
wise not actively employed, is not eligible for benefits during any such period. The employee will be eligible for benefits underthis Plan on the first regularly scheduled working day on which he would have returned to work but for the disability, and absence on such day will be deemed the first day of the waiting period for purposes of determining when benefits start.
e)	Part-Time Employment Due to Disability
An employee, who because of disability, is not able to work full regularly scheduled working days, may receive less than the full amount of daily benefits for which he is eligible. This provision only applieswhen the Companycan provide part-timeemployment. Otherwise, such employees will receive the full amount of daily benefits. If the employee is eligible for Basic Benefits,after any applicablewaiting period, he will receive pay for all hours worked and Basic Benefits for all hours not worked within the working day.
If the employee is not eligible for Basic Benefits, but is eligible for Supplemental Benefits, he will be paid for all hours worked; and 60% of his regular hourly rate for hours not worked within the working day. Each partial working day will be consideredafull dayfor purposes of determining the maximum benefits period of 26 weeks per disability or per calendar year.
f)	Exclusions
No payment will be made under the Plan with respect to absence from work due to the following reasons:
i) Disability arising from or in the course of employment by another employer, and where the employee had an employee/employer relationship with the other employer and received remuneration for his services. Disability from work performedon an employee's own residence or land will not be considered "employment by another employer".
93
ii)	Disability caused by or resulting from use cf alcoholic beverages, stimulants, drugs or narcotics, unless the employee is participating in a KraftCanada Inc. sponsored program toward rehabilitation.
iii)	Disability resultingfrom acts of immoralityor fighting.
iv)	Disability occurring while an employee is violating a Company rule.
v)	Disability resulting from a pregnancy related illness during:
a)	a pregnancy leave of absence,
b)	the period commencing with the tenth week prior to the expected week of confinement and ending with the sixth week after the week of confinement.
6.	Long-Term Disability
a)	Benefits
This plan is fully paid by the Company. Coverage commences uponcompletionof probationaryperiod and applies to all Regular Full-Timeemployees who meet the eligibility conditions.
Ifyouare unable to work after26 weeks of disability, you may be eligiblefor benefits underthe Long-Term Disability Plan.
LTD benefits may be paid up to two years if you are totally disabled and cannot perform the duties of yourcurrentjob. Ifyoucontinueto be totally disabled aftertwoyearsandcannotperformthedutiesofajob related to your skills and experience, payments will continue to the earliest of recovery, death or age 65. This plan provides you with a monthly income equal to 67% of the monthly base salary you were receiving when you became disabled, up to a maximum benefit of $15,000 per month.
To be eligible for benefits, you must be under the care cf a legally qualified physician at all times. Medical reports will be required periodically.
94
Benefits payable under this plan are considered taxable income.
b)	Recurrence of Disability
If you become disabled for the same reason within six months of your return to full-time work after a long-term disability,the second disability period will be considered a continuation of the first. You will then immediately begin receiving your long-term disability benefits.
However, if the period exceeds six months or if the new disability is not related to the first, a new claim must be filed under the Short-Term Disability Plan.
c)	Rehabilitative Employment
As an incentive to promote an early return to gainful employment after a total disability, you may perform certain work without forfeiting the benefits payable underthe LTD plan.
If you engage in an approved rehabilitative employment program, you will be entitled to receive your long-term disabilitybenefits over and above the employment income payable from the program.
The rehabilitation benefits may be paid for a maximum periodof24 months during which your income from all sources must not exceed your gross earnings at the time you became disabled.
Should disability prevent you from continuing with the program,your regulardisability benefitswill continue to be paid.
d)	Co-ordination with Other Sources of Income
Long-Term Disability Benefits are reduced by disability benefits payable from the Workplace Safety and Insurance Board, Canada Pension Plan (excluding any payments for your dependent children) and by any other income from employment or other government plans.
95
e)	Continuation of Other Employee Benefits during Disability
While you are receiving Long-Term Disability benefits, you and your dependents remain covered under all Kraft Canada Inc. plans, and you may continue to purchase OptionalAD&D Insurancefbr up to two (2) years from the date of initial Long-Term Disability acceptance, if you are totally disabled and can not perform the duties of your current job. Benefits that can not be continued during disability are the NonOccupational Accident coverage and Short-Term Disability Plan.
Seniority will continue to accumulate for as long as LTD benefits are paid.
If an employee wishes to continue contributions to the retirement plan, retirement benefits will accrue during the LTD period.
f)	Exclusions
No Long-Term Disability benefits are payable for:
A disability for which you are not treated on a continuous basis by a duly qualified physician. If the sickness is due to a mental or emotional disorder, you must be receiving continuing treatment by a physician who is certified in psychiatry.
A disability for which you may be entitled to indemnity in accordance with the provisions of a Workplace Safety and Insurance Board, the Canada Pension Plan, a provincial auto insurance plan or a group benefit plan.
A disability caused by or resulting from a self-inflicted injury or illness.
A disability caused by or resulting from alcoholism or drug addiction, unless you are treated for the problem on a continuous basis by a duly qualified physician, or are being treated through the Employee Assistance Program.
A disability caused by or resultingfrom participation in a criminal act or any act of war, declared or not.
96
A disability resultingfrom injury sustained while engaged in an employment fOr wage or profit during any period for which benefits are claimed under the plans.
7.	Retirement Plan
a)	Eligibility
You are eligible to join the Retirement Plan on the first of the month after obtaining one year's seniority. You may join any time after you become eligible by completing an enrollment form authorizing Kraft Canada Inc.to make payroll deductions and naming a beneficiary.
A temporary employee who hascompleted two years of service becomeseligibleto join the pension plan provided earningsare equalto orexceed35% of the Year’s Maximum Pensionable Earnings (YMPE) underthe Canada Pension Plan in each year or if they have worked at least 700 hours in each year. Contributions and benefits will be proratedbased on hours worked.
b)	Benefits Formula Normal Retirement
Normalretirementisthe first day ofthe monthfollowing attainment of age 65.
The monthly pension you will receive will be calculated as follows:
$45.00 per month for each year of credited service $47.00 per month for each year of credited service effective January 1st, 2001 Early Retirement
You may retire on the first of the month after your 55th birthday.
The monthly pension you will receive will be calculated as follows:
$45.00 per month for each year of credited service $47.00 per month for each year cf credited service effective January 1st, 2001
97
Iess3% for each yearof early retirementbefore age 60.
Inaddition, if you retire early while still an employee, a supplemental benefit of $12.00 per month per year of credited service (maximum30 years) will be payable until age 65.
Note 1:
Credited service means continuous service to the date you retire less periods for which you made no contributions while eligible to participate in this or predecessor Plans or for which you withdrew contributions. Further, no credit will be given for periods of military service if contributions are not made upon return to active employment.
For a regular employee who is hired on or after January 1, 1988, and a temporary employee who becomesa memberon or after January 1,1988, the service priorto becominga memberofthe Planshall not be included in the computation of credited service.
Note 2:
The Canada Pension Plan (CPP) and the Old Age Security (OAS) pensionsare in additionto your Kraft Canada Inc. Pension Plan.
c)	Employee Contributions
Monthly contribution is $96.00 per month Effective January 1s1,2001, the monthly contribution will be $101.00 per month
d)	Spouse’s Benefit
This benefitprovidesthe surviving spouse with 60% of the monthly pension paid to the retired employee for as longasthe spouse remainsalive. The monthly pension will be automatically reduced by 10% unless priorto retirementthe employee and the spouse choose to opt out of this normal form of pension by submitting a Spouse PensionWbiver which requires the witnessed signature of the employee's spouse.
98
In the case of early retirement, this reduction or resultant pension benefit will not include the early retirementsupplement referredto in Section (b).
Shouldyour spouse pre-decease you, the Spouse’s Benefit reduction shall notapply afterhis/her death.
e)	Retirement Income Options
You may wish to provide other provisions for your dependents after your death, and for this reason a number of other retirement options are available. Such options are:
Life Only - isa pension payable for the life of the retiree with a guaranteed payout of the value of the employee's contributions and interest.
If the retiree has a spouse and elects this option, the spouse must waive his/her rights on a Spousal Waiver form.
Any balance owed goes to the beneficiary.
Life- Guaranteed5.10or 15years-isa pension payable for the life of the retiree with a minimum guaranteedpayoutof5 years, 10years, 15 years. (Example: retiree elects this option and dies 2 years after pensioncommenced.The balance of the 5, 10, or 15 years is paid to his/her beneficiary).
This form cf pension is applicable for a retiree without a spouse who wishes to leave some form of pension to a beneficiary (i.e. family member) as part of his/her estate settlement, or a retiree with a spouse who wishes an alternative to the other options offered.
If the retiree has a spouse and elects this option, the spouse must waive his/her rights on a Spousal Waiver form.
Spousal Option - 60% with Pop-up - 60% spousal required by law.
Retiree takes a reduction in pension (10%) to provide 60% of his/her reduced pension to spouse.
99
Should the spouse predecease the retiree, the retirees pension ‘pops-up” to the original unreduced pension value.
Joint Survivor/Continoent Annuitant - Retiree accepts a reduction in his pension to provide a pension to another person.
The retiree can choose to leave:
- 60%
- 66%%
-	75%
-	100%
Should the joint survivor predecease the employee, there is no “pop-up”for the retiree - his/ her pension remains reduced.
and these options will be fully explained to you prior to retirement as they must be selected one year before retirement commences. Also, each specific option will cause a particular adjustment to your normal retirement income payment.
f)	Death Benefit
Should you die before retirement, your beneficiary will receive a death benefit equal to the sum of the following:
1)	The total amount of your contributions
to December31,1986 pluscompound interestto date of payment.
2)	The commuted value of the retirement income earned for service on and after January 1,1987 together with the additional retirement income granted on and after January 1,1988 for service prior to 1987.
3)	The excess, if any, of the total amount of your contributions made after 1986 plus compound interestover50% of the commuted value in paragraph 2.
Should death occur after retirement, but before receivingyour total contributions plus compound interest and the spouse benefit is not in effect your beneficiary will receive the difference.
100
g)	General Provisions
i)	Regardless of whether or not an employee participates in the Plan, retirementfrom the service of Kraft Canada Inc. must be no laterthan the first day of the month following attainmentof age 65.
ii)	You become entitled to a pension benefit under the Plan after 10 years’ continuous service for benefits earned priorto January 1, 1987 and/or after 2 years’ Plan membership for benefits earned after January 1, 1987.
Contributionswhich are made after January 1, 1987 are locked in (not refundable in cash) after 2 years’ Plan membership. Contributions made between January 1, 1965 and January 1, 1987 are locked in at age 45 and 10 or more years continuous service.
iii)	If you leave KraftCanada Inc., any Plancontribu-tions which are not vested, asdescribedin(ii) will be refundedto you with compound interest. Such refunds remain eligible for transfer to an RRSP without locking-in provisions.
If you are vested, you may leave your money in the Planand receive retirementincome or transfer the value from the Plan as outlined in (viii) which describes the portability provisions.
If you do not transfer your money from the Plan, as outlined in (viii) you will receive retirement income at normal or early retirement date equal to the amount calculated at the time you leave. If you elect to have your retirementincome begin before age 60, the reductionfor early retirement will apply.
Anytime after you leave, but before your retirement income starts, you can request that the value of your pension be transferred under the Portability provisions. If you do, all your rights to benefits under the Plan are canceled.
101
iv)	If you are absent on leave of absence, injury or illness, or any other reason and your pay stops, contributions will not resume until you return to work.
Exceptfor absences due to Military Service, Preretirement Leave of Absence, Workplace Safety and Insurance Board Compensation or Long Term Disability, missed contributions cannot be paid into the Plan on your return to work. Contributions shall be remittedoncea month by employees on Pre-Retirement Leave of Absence, Workplace Safety and Insurance Board Compensation and Long Term Disability.
While an employee is on pregnancy or parental leave, contributions shall be remitted once a month by employees, unless the employee advises the Company in writing that he or she does notwant to continue to make contributions to the Pension Plan.
v)	If you have a spouse, Provincial legislation requires that your pension beneficiary must be your spouse. You may change your beneficiary, subject to Provincial legislation, at any time by notifying the Pension Board through your local personnel representative. This is your responsibility.
vi)	Surviving Spouse means the person who, at the earlier of your death or the commencement of your retirement income meets one of the following eligibility requirements:
1)	The person who is your lawfully wedded husband or wife: or
2)	If you do not have a lawfullywedded husband or wife, the person of the opposite sex who has residedwith you in conjugal relationship, either continuously for not less than 3 years, or in a relationship of some permanence if you and the other person are the natural or adoptive parents of a child as defined in the Ontario Family Law Act.
102
However, no more than one person can be a surviving spouse. In the event cf more than one personclaimingto be such, Kraft Canada Inc. will determine, based on evidence available that Kraft Canada Inc. considers to be sufficient, as to which person shall be designated a surviving spouse for the purpose of the Plan. Kraft Canada Inc.’s decision inthis regard shall be final and binding.
vii)	If you terminate your employment on or after January 1,1988 and you are entitled to a retirement incomeas described in the preceding paragraphs, you may direct the commuted value of your retirement i ncome be transferred to another registered pension plan (subject to Plan provisions) or a locked-in registered retirement savings plan.
viii)	The cost of vested benefits earned for service commencing January 1, 1987 plus additional retirementincomegrantedon or after January 1, 1988 for service prior to 1987 must be at least 50% employer paid. Any excess employee contributions will be refunded upon retirement, termination or death prior to retirement.
ix)	Marriage Breakdown- Pension benefits may be included as part of net family assets under the Ontario Family Law Reform Act. Any credit splitting with respect to your benefits under the Plan upon marriage breakdown can be requested in accordancewith the Ontario Family Law Reform and Pension Benefits Acts.
h)	Status of Benefits on Retirement
i)	Effective July 19th, 1998 new retireeswill be covered by the "Kraft Retiree Medical Plan".
ii)	Dental Plan coverage terminates at the end cf the month prior to retirement.
iii)	Life Insurance coverage as provided under the Life Insurance Plan.
iv)	AD&D coverage terminates at the end of the month prior to retirement.
103
Summary of Pension Plan Provisions Hourly Employees Kraft Canada Inc.
Cobourg Plant
1.	Plan Effective Date: January 1, 1986
Date of most recent amendment July 19th, 1998
2.	Definitions:
a)	Credited Service: Periodof service during which a member is actively employed, less any period during which the member was eligible to make contributions and elected not to do so.
b)	Interest: Previouscalendaryearaverageoffive-year personal fixed term chartered bank deposit rates (CANSIM 814045).
3.	Eligibility for Membership:
Any person employed on a regular full-time or parttime basisis eligible to becomea memberon the first day of any month followingcompletionof one year of service. Temporary employees mayjoin after2 years of service if they meet the standard imposed by the applicable legislation.
4.	Member Contributions:
Contributions are $96.00 for each month Effective January 1st, 2001 contributionsare $101.00 per month
5.	Normal Retirement Benefit:
a)	Eligibility:	First day of the month following
attainment of age 65.
b)	Monthly Pension: $45.00 per month per year of credited service when employment ceases. EffectiveJanuary 1st, 2001 $47.00 per month per yearofcreditedservice if employment'ceases on or after January 1st, 2001.
6.	Earlv Retirement Benefit:
a) Eligibility: The first day of any month following attainment of age 55 and priorto normal retirement date.
104
b)	Annual Pension: Accrued pension, calculated as in 5, above, reduced by 3% for each year by which retirement precedes age 60.
c)	Supplementary Pension: Annual benefit equal to $144 multipliedbythe member’s credited service, to a maximum of 30 years, payable until the earlier of the member’s death or attainment of age 65.
7.	Postponed Retirement Benefits:
a)	Eligibility: With consent of the company, the first day of any month during the 5 year periodfollowing normal retirement date.
b)	Annual Pension: A member may elect either to:
(i)	commence receiving pension payments on his normal retirementdate, inwhich event his pensionwill be calculated based on earnings and service to his normal retirement date, or
(ii)	commence receiving pension payments on his actual retirement date, in which event his pensionwill be calculated basedon earnings sal service to his normal retirementdate increased by 'h% for each month by which retirement is postponed.
Where the benefit is prescribed by provincial regulations, the benefit will not be less than that prescribed.
8.	Forms of Pension:
a)	Normal Pension: Pension payablefor life with the provision that, upon death, the beneficiary will receive the excess, if any, of the accumulated member contributionswith interest over the sum of the pension payments made.
b)	Optional Forms: Amount determined on an actuarially equivalentbasisand payable in one of the following forms:
-	Life Only
-	Life - Guaranteed 5, 10 or 15 years
-	Spousal Option - 60% with pop-up
-	Joint Survivor/Contingent Annuitant
105
9.	Termination of Employment:
a)	Eligibility: 10 years of service or attainment of age 55 for Retirement Income earned before January 1, 1987, 2 years of service or attain-mentof age 55 for retirementincome earned on or after January 1, 1987.
b)	Annual Pension: Accrued pensiondeferreduntil the member elects to retire on an early retirement date, reduced for early retirementas in 6, above, or his normal retirement date.
c)	If Not Flinihle: Refundof membercontributions with interest.
Where the benefit is prescribed by provincial regulations, the benefit will not be less than that prescribed.
10.	Disability Benefit:
a)	Eligibility: Member qualifies as disabled under company long-term disability income plan.
b)	Benefit: If the member elects to continue mak-ingcontributions while disabled, he will continue to accrue credited service.
11.	Death Benefits:
a)	Before Retirement: For retirement income earned before January 1,1987, refund of member contributions with interest; for retirement income earned on or after January 1,1987, the actuarial equivalent of the accrued pension.
b)	After Retirement: Based on the form of pension electedby the member. Where the member has an eligible spouse and did not elect an optional form of payment, the following spouse benefit will be payable:
(i) Eligibility:	Member was in continuous
service after attainment of age 55 or had terminatedemploymentafter2 years of continuous service while a Memberof the Plan.
106
(ii) Annual Benefit- 60% of the pension, exclusive of the supplementary pension, being received by the member immediately prior to his death, payable for the remaining lifetime of the spouse. Member's pension, exclusive of the supplementary pension, will be reduced by 10% if this benefit is payable. If spouse predeceases the member, the pension will revert to its normal level. Where the benefit is prescribed by provincial regulations,the benefit will not be less than that prescribed.
12.	Post-Retirement Pension Adjustments:
No automatic adjustments are provided for in the plan. Ad hoc adjustments have periodically been provided in the past with the most recent adjustment being provided as at April 1, 1991.
13.	Excess Contributions:
At retirement,death or termination, a Member of his Estate is entitledto receives refund cf his contribu-tionswhich exceed 50% of the actuarial equivalent of his retirement income earned on or after January 1. 1987.
107
KRAFT CANADA INC.
MEDICAL AND DENTAL BENEFITS PLAN FOR REGULAR FULL-TIME EMPLOYEES AT THE TIME OF LAYOFF
Medical and Dental Benefits are available to Regular Full-Time Employees who qualify for eligibility at the time they are laid off.
The eligibility requirements are as follows:
The Employee must work a minimum of 32 regular hours in each calendar month to have expenses incurred in the month payable. This means, that in order to have expenses incurred in June, paid by either the Medical or Dental Plan, the Employee must have worked 32 regular hours in June and so on for each month throughout the year.
If an Employee does notworkthe required32 regular hours in a particular calendar month, then expenses incurredin that month only will not be paid.
Eligible dependents may claim expenses as well, providing that the employee has met the requirements outlined above. Eligible dependents are defined as spouse, and dependent children up to age 19 if not a student, or up to age 25 if a full-time student.
Itisimportantto notethatbecausewe mustwaituntilthe end ofthe month to determine if the 32 hours have been worked by each Employee, and advise the Benefits Carrier accordingly, that expenses not be submitted until the month following. In other words, eligible expenses for June should be submitted in July; July's expenses submitted in August, and so on.
To obtain reimbursement for Dental or Prescription claims, employees will complete claim forms available from the Human Resources Department.
108
SAVINGS PROGRAM
Eligibility:
Group Retirement Savings Plan (Group RSP) and Employee Savings Plan (ESP) are part of the Savings Program.Tb be eligible for the Group Retirement Savings Plan, you must be a participant of the Retirement Plan.The Employee Savings Plan is opento allemployees following their probation period.
Functioning:
You may contribute up to a maximum of five (5%) percent of your wages, including overtime. Kraft Canada Inc. will make contributions equal to twenty-five (25%) percent of your contributions. In other words, each dollar that you will contributeto the program, Kraft Canada Inc. will contribute twenty-five ($0.25) cents. Detailed informationonthe Program is containedinthe SAVINGS PROGRAM brochure, available at the Human Resources Department.
Appendix “G”
Special Appendices Respecting Laboratory Employees
Reclassification
An employee fulfilling the qualification requirements of Technician II will be reclassifiedand receive the applicable rate from the date of such reclassification.
Laboratory Technician Workforce Department	Unit
LaboratoryTechnicians Cereals/Rice
Desserts/Beverages Environmental/Pest Control Micro
Receiving Warehouse
109
Overtime Distribution
The parties shall co-operate and make every effort to distribute overtime as evenly as possible. However, the number of overtime hours offered to an employee within any twenty-four (24) hour period remains within the discretion of the Company.
Hours of overtime worked or refused by an employee shall be recorded weekly and postedthe following week. Hours of overtime worked or refused by an employee will be accumulated over a period of six (6) months commencing with the first work week of the calendar year.
Overtime shall be offered to the employee with the lowest number of recorded hours in each of the categories in the following priority:
a)	Among employees, qualified, available and currently working inthe task grouping inwhich overtime is required.
b)	Among employees, qualified, available and currently working in the Unit in which overtime is required.
c)	Among employees, qualified, available and currently working in the department in which overtime is required.
d)	Among employees, qualifiedand availableto perform the job in which overtime is required.
Inthe eventthat all employees referred to in (a), (b), (c), and (d) above refuse the overtime, it is agreed such overtimewill be worked bythe employee first offeredthe overtime, providingsuch overtime does not exceed four (4) hours in a day, or eight (8) hours in a calendar week. During the basic work week, overtime offered will be assigned where possible to run consecutive to an employee’s scheduled shift. Forweekend overtime, available shifts will be filled in sequence (11-7, 7-3, 3-11) by employeesin priority order, providingthe shiftassigned would not result in an employee working sixteen (16) consecutive hours.
110
Shoulda selectionerror occur, the missedemployee will be accorded the next available overtime opportunity. A grievance respecting a selection error may be submitted at the Second Step cf the grievance procedure. Employees who do not wish to work overtime must notify the Company, in writing, cf their intent. These employees will not be asked or scheduledto work overtime (unless it is necessary to protect the job) until the employee notifies the Company, in writing, that he wishes to work overtime.
Overtime Refusal Letter
Should it become necessaryto ask these employeesto work overtime to protect the job, employees will be asked to work in the following order if there is morethan one employee eligible with an Overtime Refusal Letter on file:
a)	employee with the lowest recordedhours of overtime
b)	if employees do not have any recorded hours, then the most senior employee.
Note: Overtime hours worked and refused will be recorded as per paragraph two (2) cf the Overtime Distribution section of Appendix “G” for employees in this category who become eligible for overtime to protect the job.
Team/Committee/Project Overtime Distribution
When an employee volunteers to be a member of a Team/Committee and overtime is requiredto participate in such Team/Committee Meeting and/or specific project, where knowledge of the process/activity is required, the Team/Committee employee will be given the opportunity to work such overtime, notwithstandingthe other provisions of Appendix "E"and Appendix “G”.
Paid Plant Holidays
Paid Plant Holidays will be treated and recorded as overtime.
111
Reduction of Laboratory Technicians - will be reduced by Unit, by seniority; followed if necessary, by overall Laboratory Department seniority.
i)	In the event of a reduction of a LaboratoryTechni-cian, from a Unit, the following reductionprocedures will apply:
-	the lowest seniority employee within the Unit will be cutback
-	the cutback employee from the Unit will then exercise their overall Laboratory Technician De-partmentseniority and be assigned to the task, in the Unit, that is occupied bythe Laboratory Technician, havingthe lowestoverall Laboratory Technician seniority. The employee assigned to the task in the Unit, will then become a member of the Unit the same as if they had bid and became the successful candidate.
ii)	the displaced lowest seniority Laboratory Technician forfeits their Unit bid and will exercise their Plant Seniority and be assigned to the Plant workforce. The rate of this employee will be protectedfor twelve (12) calendar months. While the employee is on protected rate, they may be assigned, by the Company, to any available opening. The employee will receivetheir protected rate for the twelve (12) calendar month period or until such time as they bid to a position outside of the Laboratory Technician Department.
In the event that there is a vacancy, which needs to be filled for more than thirty (30) work days, in a Unit, in the LaboratoryTechnician Department workforce, the employee, who is cutback to the Plantworkforce and is on a protected rate, along with all other employees in the Laboratory Technician Department workforce, will be eligibleto submit a bid for the open task, within the Unit, where the bid is required. If there are not any bids received, the open task, within the Unit, will be posted Plant wide.
112
For purposes of this Appendix, it must be noted, that if any of the Units are staffed by Student, Temporary or a Probationary Employee, and there is a reduction in a Unitand/orthe overall Laboratory Technician workforce, these employees will be displaced first, in the above order, before any Laboratory Technicians.
Appendix ‘H’
Alternate Work Schedules Notwithstandingthe Basic Work Week as described in Articles 19.1, 19.2, 19.4, 19.5, and Appendix‘D’, the implementation of alternate work schedules may be necessaryto reduce costs, meet customer needs, and acquire new business for the Cobourg site.
The alternate work schedules described in this Appendix are FlexibleWork Week and Continuous Operations. These work schedules may be implementedin departments, units, or specific operations, as needed by the business, taking into consideration the needs <f the employees.
Flexible Work Week and Continuous Operations.
All hours worked on Saturday and Sunday when they are part of the employee's regularly scheduled work week will be paid at their regular rate of pay.
Overtime will be paid at the rate <f time and one-half (IV2X) times for all hours worked beyond the regularly scheduled work day and work week.
FlexibleWork Week -The FlexibleWork Week will consist of any regularly scheduled forty (40) hours within the work permit cycle.
ContinuousOperations - Intheeventthatthe production demand will regularly exceed a five (5) day, three (3) shift capacity, the Company may implement a Continuous Operation Schedule, to meet the needs of the business, in a cost effective manner. Prior to implementation, the Companywill discuss with the Union, the business reasons for implementing a Continuous Operation, taking into consideration the needs of the employees.
113
The Company will return to a five (5) day, three (3) shift operation, once future production demand no longer exceeds a five (5) day, three (3) shift capacity.
Applicable to the alternate work schedules above: Except in an emergency, employees will not be requested to work more than twelve (12) hours.
114
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
between
KRAFT CANADA INC.
COBOURG, ONTARIO
and
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIALWORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION, LOCAL 1230
RE: WORKPLACE SAFETY AND
INSURANCE BOARD
(1)	The Company recognizes the difficulty experienced by employees awaiting claims submitted to the Workplace Safety and Insurance Board.
(2)	The Company will set up the mechanisms required to allow relief payment, due regard to Workplace Safety and Insurance Board and appropriate waivers.
(3)	Such payment will be entertained by the Company on the request of the employee to the Manager of Human Resources and will be limited to cases where legitimate hardships are encountered.
Signedat Cobourg Ontario, this 19thday of July, 1998.
Manager of Human Resources
Union Pre^entTUFCW Local 1230
115
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING Between
Kraft Canada Inc.
Cobourg, Ontario
and
United Food and Commercial Workers International Union Local 1230
Re: Joint Pension Committee for
Hourly Employees
Mandate and Activities Schedule
Committee Make-Up
The PensionCommitteeforthe Cobourg hourlyemploy-ees is a joint committee made up of three (3) Union and three (3) Management representatives.The committee will meet on a quarterly and/or (as required) basis. Meetings will be co-chaired by a Union and Management representative with a prepared agenda for each meeting.
Mandate
The mandate for the Committee is as follows:
-	to jointly become educated in the understanding cf the Pension Plan as it pertains to the site hourly employees. This will enable the members of the Committee to provide basic information to hourly employees and consistently respond to questions and concerns expressed by hourly employees.
-	participate jointly in information/education sessions and Pre-retirement Seminars for hourly employees.
-	as a Committee, to surface issues and concerns to gain joint understanding on results.
-	The Company will provide a report including, but not limited to, pension amendments, surplus status and itemized administration costs as soon as passible, but not later than September 1 st of each year. This
116
will be an in-house report, as the Company does not file an Actuarial Report with the Government every year, but every 3 years.
-	meetjointly with a representativefromTowers-Perrins to submit questions and get answers on any prepared questions of the report and/or plan administration.
-	attend an annual meeting with Corporate Finance representativesto review:
-	how funds are structured
-	where funds are invested
-	performance of funds invested
-	where InvestmentManagersare planningto invest funds over the next 12 months.
This meeting will take place by November 1st of each calendar year.
Signed at Cobourg, Ontario this 19th day of July 1998.
For the Company
Manager of Human Resources
Union President, UFCW Local 1230
117
Memorandum of Agreement Posting and Filling of Positions Temporary Job Postings
Notwithstanding Article 24.1 and Appendix “B” of the Collective Agreement, boththe Company and the Union recognizethatthere is a needto fill jobs for a temporary period of time beyond Article 24.1 and Appendix “B”. Examples of these needs are:
-	Long term sickness as per Article 24.10.
-	Pregnancy leave and parental leave as per Article 26.7
-	Union delegate or office - Article 26.4 and 26.5
-	Projects and assignments that require temporary staffing beyond Article 24.1 and Appendix “B”
Requests for Temporary Job Postings
A Departmentrequiringthe fillingofajob vacancy based on the above needs for a temporary period of time will submit a request in writing to the Associate Manager Human Resources.
The request will identify
-	the specific job vacancy required to be filled
-	the temporary period dates ■ beginning and end
-	reason for posting temporary
Each request will be reviewed with the union President before posting.
Procedures and Posting
All job vacancies,which needto be filled on a temporary posting shall be posted for three (3) work days. As per Article 24.2 seniority, aptitude and ability shall be the determining factor in selecting applicants. Seniority shall be the governing factor when aptitude and ability are considered by the Company to be equal. Successful applicants will receive the rate of pay of the temporary job posted for the specified time the temporary job exists. The successful applicant will also retain the rights to their current bid job, when the temporary job period is completed.
118
In the event there are not sufficient applicants for the temporary job posted, a qualified and available employee will beassignedtothe vacanttemporary job, with due regard being paidto availability, qualificationsand seniority for the temporary period specified inthe posting. Such employee will receivetheir currentbidjob rate of pay if the temporary job rate is the same or a lower rate of pay. If the temporary job rate is higher the employee will receive the higher rate of pay.
To prevent a cascade affect, the successful applicants' current bidjob created by the temporary bid postingwill be filled by a qualified and available cutback employee, or if no employees are cutback, an employee from the General Labour classification for the specified temporary job period.
Reduction and Recall
In the event that there is a need to reducethe workforce from the temporaryjob posted, the following procedures for reduction in staff would apply in this order:
-	temporarily assigned
-	temporary bid employee
-	regular bid employee
The reverse orderwill apply to recall staff to the job bid. The temporary bid employee, if cutback, would retain their seniority rights to the regular bidjob they hold.
A requestfor extension of the originaltime period specified in the temporary bid posting will be given in writing to the ManagerHumanResourcesatleastten (10) work days priorto the expiration date. This request will be reviewedwith the UnionPresidentand may be extended by mutual agreement. If the decision is to make the temporaryjob a regularbid position, then the job will be posted plantwide as per Article 24.
119
Overtime Distribution
As per Appendix "E" temporary bid and any employees holdingthe bid will follow under Section (a). Employees holding a temporary bid will go one hour more than the highest employee in their regularbid classificationwhen their temporary bid job is completed This memorandum only applies to a Temporary Job Posting providing it does not exceed 12 calendar months.
Signed at Cobourg, Ontario this 19th day of July 1998.
For the Company
Manager of Human Resources
Union PreS^entTUFCW Local 1230
120
Letter of Agreement Re: Pre-Testing of Applicants
This letter will confirm the Company's willingness to modify our interpretationof'Articles 24.6 (a) and (b), on a without prejudice basis, for the remainder of the life of the current Collective Agreement. The procedure for pre-testing will be as follows:
i)	All bid job applicants and/or current employees who will be temporarily assigned to a job where the qualifications have been determined to include a specific skill or ability which can be pre-determinedthrough the testing procedurewill be pre-tested by seniority.
ii)	Outside applicants who do not meet the standards for that skill or ability, as indicated on the tests, will not be hired.
iii)	An employee who does not meet the standards for that skill or ability, as determined by the tests, will be given the opportunity to proceed through theon-the-jobtrainingand evaluation of performance on the job, following training. However, prior to beginning the training, this employee will be advised of the test results, and will be clearly counseled with regard to the expectations of performance in the areas during training, and in the evaluation following training.
iv)	As per Article 24.3, an employee who fails to qualify for thejob shall be returnedto hisformer classification/position.
v)	Skills and abilities that may be assessed by pretesting may include, but are not limited to: mechanical aptitude, team work, problem solving, english reading, writing and comprehension.
vi)	Skilled trades positions are excluded from this Letter of Agreement.
121
vii)	Pre-testing will notberequired for an employee(s) temporarily assigned to one specific task of a multi-task job providing that the employee is scheduled for 30 work days or less to meet immediate business needs, in times of short term absences, personal leaves, vacations and shutdown coverage. The temporarily assigned em-ployee(s) will receive their rate protection from their cutback bid job. if they do not qualify to carry rate protection, they will be paid the General Labour rate during their assignment.
Applicable as per date of signing this agreement July 19th, 1998.
For the Company
Manager of Human Resources
Union Local 1230
122
Letter of Understanding Re: Flexible Work Schedules Process for Developing and Implementation
To ensure that developmentplans, communicationsand implementation is done within the parameters of Appendix “H” of the Collective Agreement, both the Company and Union agree to the following procedures: Development
Any plan involving the use of a FlexibleWork Schedule, will be proposed to the Department Manager.The Department Managerwill solicit inputfrom the Department Stewards and the bid employees affected, to develop a flexible work schedule to satisfy business needs, taking into consideration employee needs.
A detailed plan will be put together by the Department Manager and submitted to the Flexible Work Schedule Committee at l east fifteen (15) work days prior to implementation. This Committee is made up of the President and another member of the Union Executive, plus one (1) Human Resources Representativeand the Department Manager from the area involved. Other members from the membershipand Company will be added to the Committee as resources, as needed.
Flexible Work Schedule Committee
The role cf the FlexibleWork Schedule Committee will be as follows:
Within fifteen (15) work days from the receipt of the detailed plan from the Department Manager, the Committee will:
-	Review and assess the details of the submitted plan for impacts on the Collective Agreement Articles and the procedures for filling vacancies
-	It will be the responsibility of this Committee to develop a Letter of Understanding, outlining any Articles of the Collective Agreement impacted
123
-	Assists the Department Manager in filling the required vacancies
-	Assists the Department Manager in developing a communication plan so that employees affected and support areas such as payroll, scheduling, and security, are aware of the plan and the implementation date
-	Assists the Department Manager to evaluate the learnings on an ongoing basis and implementthese changes where appropriate.
Intent
a)	FlexibleWork Scheduleswill notcause an employee to lose wages and benefits based on a regular forty (40) hour work schedule
b)	Employees on a Flexible Work Schedule will not work both Saturday and Sunday on a week-end, except on a voluntary basis.
By mutual agreement, this letter of understanding will
be reviewed by both parties to adopt any successful
learnings on the principle of continuous improvement.
Signed at Cobourg on this 19th day of July, 1998.
For the Company
Manager of Human Resources	Local 1230
a
124