AGREEMENT BETWEEN
EXPIRY DATE: APRIL 30,2005
OLD DUTCH FOODS LTD.,
WINNIPEG, MANITOBA, hereinafter called "the Company",
AND
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS UNION, LOCAL NO. 832,
chartered by the United Food & Commercial Workers International Union, hereinafter called "the Union".
In consideration of the covenants and agreements of the parties hereto hereinafter contained, and by them to be respectively observed, kept and performed; the parties hereto covenant and agree as follows:
ARTICLE 1 UNION RECOGNITION
1.01	The Company recognizes the Union as the sole agency for the
purposes of collective bargaining for all employees of Old Dutch Foods Ltd., in its plant in Winnipeg, Manitoba, except Truck Drivers, Office Staff, Forepersons and those above the rank of Forepersons, Laboratory Technicians and those excluded by the Act.
ARTICLE 2
UNION SECURITY/DEDUCTION OF DUES
2.01
Union Security
Any employee who at the date of this Agreement is a member of the Union, or one who becomes a member of the Union after the date shall, as a tfment, maintain such membership during a term of this Agreement.
I
i.ii;
VRf® I’v’fHi
00611 0&
The Company shall be free to hire or rehire new employees who are not members of the Union, provided said non-members shall be eligible for membership in the Union.
Employees who are Union members shall be considered to have maintained membership in the Union in good standing so long as they pay uniform union dues, initiation fees and special assessments required of all members.
The Company agrees to provide each new employee and each rehired employee, at the time of employment, with a form letter supplied by the Union (Exhibit One). The Company agrees to forward Exhibit One (postcard) duly completed as attached to this Agreement, to the Union within ten (10) calendar days from the date of hire or rehire of an employee. The Union shall bear the expense of printing and mailing the letter, the contents to be such that it is acceptable to the Company.
The Company agrees to continue to provide the Union once a month with a list containing the names and Social Insurance Numbers of all employees who have terminated their employment during the previous month.
No employee shall be discharged or discriminated against for lawful Union activity, or performing services on a Union committee outside working hours or reporting to the Union any violation of any provision of this Agreement.
2.02	Deduction of Dues
The Company agrees to deduct from the wages of each employee in each pay period, such uniform union dues, initiation fees and assessments as directed by the Union. The Company further agrees to deduct the union dues automatically from the wages of new or rehired employees' first pay period. Monies deducted during any month shall be forwarded by the Company to the Secretary-Treasurer of the Union within twenty (20) calendar days following the end of the Company's four (4) or five (5) week accounting period and accompanied by a four (4) week or monthly written statement of the names, addresses and Social Insurance Numbers of the employees for whom the deductions were made and the amount of each deduction. The Company shall also provide the Union, when remitting the monthly cheques, with the names of employees and name changes of employees.
Each year the Company will calculate the amounts of union dues deducted from the employee's pay and shall indicate same on the T-4 slip for each employee no later than February 28th.
-2-
ARTICLE 3
MANAGEMENT’S RIGHTS
3.01	In consideration of the recognition granted to the Union herein, the Union agrees for itself and on behalf of the members, not to hinder, or interfere with the Company in the management of its business in all of its several departments, including, but without restricting the generality of the foregoing, the rights of the Company to assign work, to direct the work force, to hire, suspend, discharge for proper cause, transfer employees to jobs within or between different departments, to lay off employees for lack of work howsoever arising or for other legitimate reasons. In the exercising of the above management responsibilities and prerogative the Company agrees that its employees will not be discriminated against, and that same will not be exercised to bring about a condition contrary to any of the terms or provisions of this Agreement.
3.02	In administering this Agreement, the Company shall act reasonably, fairly, in good faith and in a manner consistent with the Agreement as a whole.
ARTICLE 4 NO DISCRIMINATION
4.01	The Company and the Union agree not to discriminate against any employee, or prospective employee because of membership or activity in the Union, or on the grounds of ancestry including colour and perceived race, nationality or national origin, ethnic background or origin, religion or creed, or religious belief, religious association, or religious activity, age, sex (including pregnancy, the possibility of pregnancy or circumstances related to pregnancy), gender determined characteristics, sexual orientation, marital or family status, source of income, political belief, association or activity, physical or mental disability, all of which is consistent with the Human Rights Act in the province of Manitoba. Further, there shall be no discrimination against any employee for refusal to cross a legal picket line or to obey a lawful union order.
4.02	An employee alleging discrimination may place his or her allegation before the Union, and if the Union considers that the allegation has merit it shall be treated as a grievance and be subject to the provisions of grievance procedure as established in this Agreement.
4.03	The Company agrees that there will be no harassment in the workplace. If any complaints of harassment arise the Company and the Union will
-3-
meet to resolve the issue. Any grievance arising out of this section will commence at Step 3 of the Grievance Procedure. The Company will continue to post its current "No Harassment Policy".
ARTICLE 5	HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
5.01	The basic normal work week shall be eight (8) hours daily and forty (40) hours weekly, but nothing herein contained shall be deemed to be a guarantee of forty (40) hours work week.
5.02	Overtime at the rate of time and one-half (lVi) shall be paid for all hours worked over eight (8) hours daily or forty (40) hours weekly, whichever is the greater.
5.03	Any employees who are scheduled to work on Saturday and miss time during the week due to a doctor or dentist appointment or any other bona fide reason acceptable to the Company, shall receive time and one-half (l%)for hours worked on Saturday. Article 5, Section 5.04 of this Agreement will apply to any employee who misses time on their own volition. All time off for doctor or dentist appointments must be pre-arranged with the Supervisor. Employees will provide the Company with proof of reasons for absence if proof is requested.
5.04	Time and one-half (llA) shall be paid for Saturday hours worked; provided, however, that time and one-half (l'A) shall only be paid to any employee who has worked forty (40) hours during the immediate preceding Monday to Friday, and if any employee has not worked in the said period because s/he was scheduled off by the Company or because of a general holiday, s/he shall be paid the time and one-half (1%) rate.
5.05	Double (2X) time shall be paid for Sunday hours worked, provided it is not part of a regular shift.
5.06	Each employee reporting for work shall be entitled to four (4) hours work or four (4) hours pay for that time if there is no work available.
It is the responsibility of the employee to keep the Company informed at all times of his/her current telephone number and residence address. If an employee fails to do so s/he shall not be entitled to the pay in lieu of notice referred to in this article.
-4
5.07	Any employee who is recalled to work after completing his shift
for the day and has left the plant shall be paid time and one-half (IV2) for the actual hours worked or four (4) hours at straight time pay, whichever is the greater.
5.08
Employees shall be entitled to meal and rest periods as follows:
Shift Scheduled	Breaks
Shift = or) 6 hours
Shift = or) 5 hours but (6 hours
One (1) ten (10) minute paid rest period during each half of the shift. One (1) thirty (30) minute unpaid meal break.
One (l)ten (10) minute paid rest period during each half of the shift.
Shift ( 5 hours	One (l)ten (10) minute paid rest
period at approximately the middle of the shift.
Except for employees scheduled to work less than six (6) hours, employees shall not be required to work more than five (5) hours without a meal period, nor an additional five (5) hours without a second meal period. The second meal period shall be one-half hour on Company time.
room.
The time for rest periods shall be computed as time in the lunch
5.09	In the event overtime is necessary, the overtime shall be assigned on a departmental basis as provided for in the wage schedule. When overtime work requires less employees than normally employed on such work, then overtime will be offered to the most senior employees wherever practical. Senior employees will have the right to refuse provided there are sufficient junior employees qualified and available for work.
5.10	When the Company finds it necessary to change the starting time for one or more of the employees in a given classification, the most junior employees shall be the first affected; provided, however, that if the junior employees are not qualified for the job then a more senior employee may be required to work.
-5-
5.11	The Company shall advise the employees of any changes in the
starting work schedule prior to Friday noon of each work week. If no changes have been communicated prior to Friday noon, then the schedule in effect shall apply for the following Monday. However, the schedule of any employee may be changed without notice in the event of unscheduled absence of fellow employees, the event of emergencies such as breakdowns or Acts of God, or other Acts over which the Company has no control. In all other cases, at least twelve (12) hours notice of any change must be given or four (4) hours pay granted in lieu of notice.
Exceptions to this general rule will apply in the case of the night clean-up crew. When the plant is forced to work overtime and this crew is unable to start at its regular time because the machinery is still operating, they may have their starting hours altered provided reasonable notice is given. Reasonable notice is defined as being a telephone call at least four (4) hours prior to the change.
ARTICLE 6 GENERAL HOLIDAYS
6.01	The following days shall be paid as General Holidays:
New Year's Day	Canada Day
Victoria Day	Christmas Day
Remembrance Day	Good Friday
Civic Holiday (1st Mon. in Aug.) Labour Day Thanksgiving Day	Boxing Day
National Heritage Day (3rd Monday in February or whenever proclaimed by Provincial or Federal governments)
In the event that any of the above holidays fall on a weekend, the employee shall be paid for the holiday or declared holiday. If any of these days falls on a Sunday, the day proclaimed in its stead shall be observed. Employees shall also receive pay for general holiday or holidays, provided they worked their full scheduled work day before and after the holiday, unless absent due to bona fide illness or accident.
6.02	Any employee, if required to work on a general holiday, shall receive in addition to their regular pay for the holiday, straight time and one half (l'A) for each hour worked on said holiday.
6.03	To qualify for general holiday pay as set forth, an employee must satisfy the requirements of the Employment Standards Act, except that in order to
-6
qualify the employee need only work ten (10) days during the previous thirty (30) calendar days.
An employee who fails to work a minimum of ten (10) days during the thirty (30) calendar days preceding the holiday shall not be disqualified from receiving holiday pay providing s/he works the last full scheduled shift immediately before the holiday and the first scheduled shift following, unless the Union and Company agree otherwise.
6.04	All part-time employees shall receive general holiday pay in an
amount equal to one-fifth (1/5) of the average weekly hours that were paid to the employee during the four (4) complete calendar weeks in which the employee worked, immediately prior to the week in which the general holiday or holidays occur.
ARTICLE 7 VACATIONS
7.01	The anniversary date of all employees for earned vacation with pay
shall be December 31st of each year.
7.02	An employee who commences employment with the Company after
January 1st of a year and before December 31st of that year shall be entitled to an earned vacation pro-rated on the basis of the following schedule:
MONTH HIRED	CalendK		ars Fd}ft)wmg thfJ^Uftr in Which thg/EinplPyee wasJRjr^					
	1«	2nd & 3ni	4th			’lV M is	19th ^ In	20th & over
Jan. to Feb.	10 days	10 days	15 days	T) 15 days1	20 days	ft 20 days r	•z5 days	25 days
March to April	'fftlays	10 days	14 days	15 days	19 days	20 days	24 days	25 days
May to June	$ days	10 days	13 days	15 days	18 days	20 days	23 days	25 days
July to August	f’days	10 days	12 days	15 days	17 days	20 days	22 days	25 days
Sept, to Oct.	^days	10 days	11 days	15 days	16 days	20 days	21 days	25 days
Nov. to Dec.	*hiay	10 days	10 days	15 days	15 days	20 days	20 days	25 days
An employee who has earned three (3) days but less than five (5) days under this section will be allowed, upon request, one (1) week's vacation including days earned - it is understood and agreed that any additional days beyond
-7-
those earned will be granted without pay. An employee who has earned seven (7) days but less than ten (10) days under this section will be allowed upon request, two (2) weeks' vacation including days earned. It is understood and agreed that any additional days beyond those earned will be granted without pay. The employee shall receive vacation pay immediately prior to going on vacation, or on the regular pay day by direct deposit if the employee requests/agrees.
7.03	Earned vacation shall be scheduled between January lsl to December 31st of each year, both inclusive, unless otherwise mutually agreed to between the Company and the employee. Insofar as practical, earned vacation shall be granted on the basis of seniority. The vacation schedule shall be posted no later than February 1st of each year, to be completed by employees by no later than April 1st. The finalized vacation schedule will be posted no later than April 30th of each year. In the event that vacation schedules have not been selected by employees by April Is1, vacations may be assigned by the Company. It is understood and agreed that the Company has the right to limit the number of employees who may be away on their earned vacation at any one time providing such right is not unreasonably exercised. Employees shall only be entitled to use two (2) weeks of their earned vacation entitlement during the months of June, July or August of any year, unless otherwise mutually agreed in writing between the employee and the Company.
Senior employees who are entitled to more than two (2) weeks' vacation during the year, may claim additional weeks during June, July and August if, after all employees' vacation schedules are finalized there are any additional weeks left over. These weeks will be allotted to employees by seniority, providing it does not interfere with the operation of the plant.
7.04	The amount of vacation pay shall be computed by applying a percentage to the prior calendar year's earnings as set forth in the following schedules:
	Calendar Years Following the Year in Which the Employee was Hired							
MONTH	1“	2nd &	4th	5th-	10*	11*-	19th	20th &
HIRED		3rd		(jth		18th		over
Jan. to Feb.	4.0%	4.0%	6.0%	6.0%	8.0%	8.0%	10.0%	10.0%
March to April	4.0%	4.0%	5.6%	6.0%	7.6%	8.0%	9.6%	10.0%
May to June	4.0%	4.0%	5.2%	6.0%	7.2%	8.0%	9.2%	10.0%
July to August				6.0%	6.8%	8.0%	8.8%	10.0%
Sept, to Oct.				6.0%	6.4%	8.0%	8.4%	10.0%
Nov. to Dec.				6.0%	6.0%	8.0%	8.0%	10.0%
-8-
Employees will earn the above percentages or corresponding hours paid to days off, whichever is the greater amount.
The employee shall receive vacation pay immediately prior to going on vacation, or on the regular pay day by direct deposit if the employee requests/agrees.
7.05	When a general holiday occurs during an employee's vacation and the Company's place of business is closed by reason of such holiday, the employee will be allowed one (1) day of pay in lieu or another day off with pay mutually agreed between the Company and the employee for each statutory holiday.
7.06	An employee who is eligible for earned vacation entitlement, and who terminates his or her service with the Company before receiving such earned vacation entitlements, shall receive upon termination, the appropriate percent of his or her total wages or earnings as referred to in the above articles.
7.07	In the event an employee is on a leave of absence for any reason and his or her absence exceeds six (6) calendar months they shall be paid on the basis of their appropriate percentage of total wages or earnings of such employees for the previous calendar year.
7.08	Employees who become confined to home or in the hospital due to serious illness or injury while on vacation, may file a claim for weekly indemnity benefits and the balance of the employee's vacation may be rescheduled upon approval of the claim by Great West Life providing there is a minimum of one (1) week left on the employee's vacation. If this is a reoccurring illness or injury the employee will not be entitled to reschedule his or her vacation. Rescheduling of vacation shall not interfere with other employees who have already scheduled their vacation (no bumping).
ARTICLE 8 PROBATIONARY PERIOD
8.01	It is understood and agreed that employees who are hired into the classification of Packer, Weight Takers, Sweepers, Inspectors, Trimmers, General Labourers and Production Grade 1, shall serve a probationary period of employment of thirty (30) days worked.
8.02	Employees hired into all other classification of the Company shall serve a probationary period up to forty-five (45) days worked.
No employee will be requested to serve a second or subsequent probationary period.
8.03	An employee may be subject to termination of employment by the Company during the probationary period and the exercise of this right by the Company shall not be open to or the subject of a grievance by the Union or the employee.
8.04	Termination of an employee during his or her probationary period as outlined in this Agreement may be deferred for an extended period mutually agreed to by the Union and the Company for purposes of further evaluating employee performance.
8.05	Employees who have completed their probationary period, and who are transferred into classifications other than packer, weight takers, sweepers, inspectors, trimmers, general labourers and production grade 1, and whose services in such classifications are unsatisfactory shall have the right to return to the classification held immediately prior to such transfer.
8.06	Orientation
The Company agrees to provide a Union Representative or his/her designate, not less than ten (10) minutes, but no more than thirty (30) minutes at a time mutually agreed upon, during the employee's first week of employment as an orientation period for the familiarization of the employees in the bargaining unit with the general conditions and responsibilities with respect to this Collective Agreement and to UFCW Local No. 832. Such time off will be with pay for the employee and for the Union Representative's designate should such designate be a member of the bargaining unit.
ARTICLE 9 SENIORITY
9.01	Seniority shall be defined as length of continuous service with the
Employer within the bargaining unit from the most recent date of hire.
Temporary employees who are employees hired to work during the summer will not exercise seniority against other employees.
Seniority shall take effect after an employee has served his/her probationary period as referred to in Articles 8.01, 8.02 and 8.04. Upon completion of
-10-
me said proDauonary penuu an ernpiuyees seiuuniy Mian uaic uauv iu uua/uc; unginai date of employment.
Seniority for employees hired the same day will be determined by
date of application.
9.02	An employee shall cease to have seniority rights and his/her
employment status with the company shall be terminated for all purposes if the employee is:
(a)	is duly discharged by the Company and is not reinstated through the grievance and arbitration procedure contained in the Agreement;
(b)	voluntarily quits or resigns;
(c)	has been laid off continuously for a period of thirty-three (33) weeks or is called back to work after a layoff and does not return to work within fourteen (14) calendar days of receiving a registered letter to his/her last known address;
(d)	is absent from work without an approved leave of absence for more tiian three (3) consecutive working days and who do not present satisfactory evidence showing they were unable to report for work;
(e)	fails to return to work on the completion of an authorized leave of absence and who do not present satisfactory evidence showing they were unable to report for work.
9.03	The Company agrees to post in a conspicuous place in the plant,
within thirty (30) days after the effective date of this Agreement, a list of employees covered by this Agreement arranged in order of their length of service.
Any employee who believes that his/her record of service has been incorrectly stated on such list may request that his/her standing be corrected providing s/he makes such request within ten (10) days of posting of the list and failing such request said list shall be deemed to be correct and not open to challenge by the employee. In the event the Company contemplates changing the posted list, for any reason, the Union shall be notified prior to any such change, and given reasons for same. The Company agrees to make an up-to-date seniority list available to the Union every six (6) months thereafter.
- 11 -
9.04	In cases of layoff and reductions of the work force, the probationary employees will be laid off first. In all other cases of layoff, reduction of the work force, re-employment, filling of new positions and filling of job vacancies, seniority shall be the governing factor providing the employee has the ability to do the normal requirements of the job. The Company will consider the individual qualifications of the employee and the efficient operation of its plant and business.
9.05	Job Posting
The Company will post a notice on the bulletin board within five (5) calendar days of the vacancy occurring for a period of seven (7) calendar days advising of a job vacancy. During this the, application for vacancy may be made by employees. The Company will post the classification and shift for the job in question. Temporaiy appointments may be made by the Company pending receipt of application.
The job will be awarded within five (5) calendar days after the posting whenever possible. An employee receiving the posted job will be on trial for up to forty-five (45) working days. If the employee cannot perform the job satisfactorily, or if the employee chooses to do so, the employee will return to his/her prior job. It is understood that the Company has the sole right to decide whether an applicant can perform the job satisfactorily. Only the original vacancy and the job fi-om which the promotion was made shall be posted.
Employees who may be on vacation, sick leave or authorized leave of absence may apply, in writing, for a job prior to any vacancy being posted. Said employee's application will then be considered by the Employer along with all other applications.
If an employee is found unsatisfactory, or chooses to return to his/her previous job s/he will not be able to reapply for the same vacancy within the next six (6) months.
Temporary vacancies shall be offered by seniority from among those employees who have the ability to do the normal requirements of thejob.
In the event the Company decides not to fill a vacated position, the Company will notify the Union of its decision and provide reasons for same.
9.06	If any employee is absent from work because of illness certified by
a duly qualified medical practitioner or an injury arising out of an employee's normal
course of duties, then the employee shall not lose seniority rights and shall return to the position held immediately prior to the employee's absence.
Prior to returning to work, an ill or injured employee must provide medical proof of ability to return to work. If an employee is not able to return to work to perform his or her complete duties, the Employer will make every effort to find alternate work within the plant.
Upon recuperation from an extended absence the employee will give the employer one (1) week's notice of his/her intention to return to work.
ARTICLE 10 MATERNITY LEAVE/PARENTAL LEAVE
10.01	An employee may request a leave of absence without pay because
of pregnancy. Such leave will be granted providing the employee submits to her Employer a request in writing for such leave at least two (2) weeks prior to the date she intends to commence such leave (or such shorter period of time as her doctor may determine), together with a certificate from a qualified medical practitioner indicating the estimated date of delivery. Said employee shall be re-employed by the Company after the birth and must do so within seventeen (17) weeks following the actual delivery date unless she wishes to take parental leave immediately following her maternity leave.
In cases of physical complications, the employee may request an extension of her leave of absence provided such request is accompanied by a doctor's certificate setting out the nature of the complications and the length of the extension. Seniority shall accrue during maternity leave of absence and benefits accumulated prior to said leave shall be maintained.
Eligible employees will be entitled to collect E.I. benefits in amounts and for a time period as provided under the E.I. Act.
Group insurance benefits (or other similar benefits) required because of a medical condition directly attributable to pregnancy, will be granted to employees under the same conditions as these benefits are granted to other employees.
PARENTAL LEAVE
10.02	Entitlements
Every employee,
-11-
(a)	who,
(j) in the case of a female employee, becomes the natural mother of a child,
(ii)	in the case of a male employee, becomes the natural, father of a child or assumes actual care and custody of his newborn child, or
(iii)	adopts a child under the law of the province; and
(b)	who submits to the Employer an application in writing for parental leave where possible at least four (4) weeks before the day specified in the application as the day on .which the employee intends to commence the leave;
is entitled to, and shall be granted, parental leave consisting of a continuous period of up to thirty-seven (37) weeks.
10.03	Commencement of Leave
Parental leave must commence no later than the first anniversary date of the birth or adoption of the child or of the date on which the child comes into the actual care and custody of the employee. The employee will decide when his or her parental leave is to commence.
10.04	Late Application for-Parental Leave
Where an application for parental leave under subsection 10.02 is not made in accordance with section 10.02(b), the employee is nonetheless entitled to, and upon application to the Employer shall be granted, parental leave under this section for the lull thirty-seven (37) week leave period.
10.05	Reinstatement of Employee
An employee who wishes to resume employment on the expiration of leave granted with this section shall be reinstated in the position occupied at the time such leave commenced.
-14
10.06
E.I. Benefits
Eligible employees will be entitled to collect E.I. benefits in amounts and for a time period as provided for under the E.I. Act.
10.07	Seniority shall accrue during a parental leave of absence and benefits accumulated prior to said leave shall be maintained.
10.08	Benefits provided for in this section are in addition to any and all maternity leave benefits that are available to an employee.
ARTICLE 11 BEREAVEMENT LEAVE
11.01	Where an employee is absent from work to grieve the death of a spouse (including common law spouse of the same or opposite sex), parent, or de facto parent, child, stepchild, brother or sister, s/he shall receive pay at his/her regular hourly rate on three (3) consecutive scheduled work days ending with the second day after the funeral.
11.02	When an employee is absent from work to grieve the death of a stepbrother, stepsister, mother-in-law, father-in-law, sister-in-law, brother-in-law, grandmother, grandfather, daughter-in-law, son-in-law, grandchild, s/he shall receive pay at his/her regular hourly rate on two (2) consecutive scheduled work days ending with the first day after the funeral.
11.03	No payment shall be made for any part of the three (3) or two (2) days which fall during the employee's vacation.
11.04	The Company may ask for proof of death by way of obituary notice or death certificate.
11.05	It is understood that, to be eligible as a common law spouse under 11.01 above, such employee must have been living common law for a minimum of twelve (12) norths prior to the death.
11.06	Any extended leave of absence beyond those mentioned in Articles 11.01 and 11.02 will be at the discretion of the Company.
-15-
ARTICLE 12
TIME OFF FOR UNION BUSINESS
12.01	The Company agrees that up to two (2) employees, who are chosen for such purposes, shall be granted time off without pay in order to attend Union business, provided, that suitable replacements are available to perform such absent employee'sjobs.
12.02	Negotiations Leave
The Company agrees that up to two (2) employees will be granted time off, without pay, in order to participate in contract negotiations of the employer.
12.03	When an employee is chosen to attend a Union business or participate in contract negotiations, the Employer agrees to pay the employee in full for time lost, and then to bill the Union for such time.
ARTICLE 13 GENERAL LEAVE OF ABSENCE
13.01	Unless stated elsewhere in this Agreement, all leaves of absence or
time off will be without pay. Requests for leave of absence or time off exceeding one
(1)	week (excluding maternity/parental or bereavement leaves) shall be submitted to the Company in writing at least two (2) weeks in advance of the anticipated time of absence. The Company may in its discretion refuse any request for leave of absence or time off. Failure to report for duty immediately following the expiry of such leave of absence or time off, shall be deemed to be voluntary separation from the employee from his/her employment, unless an explanation by way of a telegram, telephone call or fax to the Company provides an explanation satisfactory to the Company.
ARTICLE 14 JURY DUTY/WITNESS LEAVE
14.01	An employee summoned for jury duty, or subpoenaed as a witness
in Court, shall be paid the difference between the amount paid to him for such jury duty or witness fees and the amount of basic wages he would have earned normally had he been scheduled to work on the day(s) of such attendance.
The employee shall report for work when not required by the Court if at the time he is not required there is not less than two hours remaining in this normal shift.
-16 •
ARTICLE 15
HEALTH AND WELFARE BENEFITS REFERRAL
15.01	Health and Welfare benefits shall be as contained in Appendix “B”
of this Agreement and shall form part of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 16	TERMINATION
16.01	It is understood and agreed that the Company shall not be obligated
to give any notice or pay in lieu of notice to any employee terminated for proper cause if the employee is found guilty of:
(1)	dishonesty
(2)	willfully damaging property of the Company
(3)	willfully contaminating products of the Company
(4)	drunkenness at work
(5)	consuming or being under the influence of alcohol
(6)	insubordination.
ARTICLE 17 BULLETIN BOARD
17.01	The Company agrees to continue to allow the Union to supply and
install a UFCW bulletin board for posting Union notices providing said notices are approved first by the Company. The bulletin board shall be situated in the employee’s lunch room.
ARTICLE 18 CLOTHING/TOOL ALLOWANCE
18.01	The Company agrees to furnish all special wearing apparel either
approved as necessary by the Company or required by the Workers Compensation Board.
The Company will supply a maximum of four (4) parkas for those employees in the Shipping Department as designated by the Company (winter time). These parkas must remain on Company premises.
-17-
In addition, where the Company determines rubber boots are required by an employee for the performance of his duties, the Company will pay the cost of one (1) pair per year.
18.02	Clothing Allowance
Uniforms shall be worn by employees as directed by the Company, and shall be provided by the employee. The Company agrees to pay two hundred and sixty ($260.00) dollars yearly to be paid out at five ($5.00) dollars weekly towards the purchase and laundering of these articles of clothing. The Company reserves the right to supply uniforms in lieu of a clothing allowance. The above article applies to all employees except for seasonal employees.
18.03	The Company agrees to supply hairnets to the employees. Employees must return used hairnets. If unable to return used hairnets, the employee will be charged a fee for the new one.
18.04	Effective two (2) months following date of ratification all linemen will be provided with their choice of either seven (7) shirts or five (5) shirts and two (2) pairs of pants.
18.05	Tool Allowance
The Company agrees to pay eighty ($80.00) dollars per contract year towards the purchase of tools for maintenance employees in the classification of Grade II to Grade V (excluding labourers).
18.06	Safety Boot Allowance
Effective the date of ratification, and each contract year thereafter, the Company agrees to pay upon providing of receipts up to fifty ($50.00) dollars (effective May 1, 2002, seventy-five ($75.00) dollars; effective May 1, 2003, eighty-five ($85.00) dollars) towards the purchase of safety boots for each employee who is required to wear same by the Department of Labour Safety and Health Division.
New employees will receive their allowance after completion of their probationary period.
-18-
ARTICLE 19
UNION REPRESENTATIVE'S VISITS
19.01	Any authorized Union Representative, upon notifying the Plant
Manager or his designate, will be permitted to enter the plant to ensure that the terms of the Collective Agreement are being implemented. While in the plant, the Union Representative will take proper precautions with regards to health and safety.
ARTICLE 20 SHOP STEWARDS
20.01	The Company shall recognize all Union Shop Stewards for the
purpose of representing the Union within the plant, and shall restrict their activities to the handling of grievances and other legitimate Union business and shall be allowed a reasonable amount of time with pay during regular working hours.
•20.02	Stewards must ask their foreman for permission to leave their jobs
to investigate and adjust grievances and such permission shall be granted without unreasonable delay. It's further agreed that this provision shall be limited to periods of regular pay.
20,03	The Company shall not discriminate against any member of the
bargaining unit and/or Shop Steward for exercising their rights under the terms of the Collective Agreement.
ARTICLE 21 DISCIPLINE/DISCHARGE
21.01	A Shop Steward, or in the absence of a Shop Steward, another employee from the bargaining unit, shall be present when a member of the bargaining unit is being given a written reprimand or is being suspended or discharged unless the employee being disciplined waives the right to be represented in the presence of the Shop Steward or other employee. The Shop Steward may notify the Union Representative prior to the commencement of any such meeting and the Union Representative shall be entitled to attend any such meeting (if time permits) providing he or she is readily available to do so.
21.02	All disciplinary meetings shall be held in private and shall take place in a location on the Company's premises.
. IQ -
21.03	When an employee has been given a written reprimand, suspension, disciplinary demotion or is dismissed from employment, the employee shall be informed in writing as to the reason(s) for such action. The employee, the Shop Steward and the Union will be provided with a copy of all written notices which are placed on his/her personnel file.
21.04	Employees covered by this Agreement shall have access to their own personnel file once per calendar year, upon written request by the employee involved. The file will be reviewed in the presence of management and the employee cannot remove any parts or documents from the file.
ARTICLE 22 TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE
22.01	3h the event of technological change as described in the Labour
Relations Act, all provisions of the said Act regarding technological change shall apply.
ARTICLE 23 GENERAL
23.01	The Company agrees to provide two (2) microwave ovens and a
fridge for the use of all employees.
ARTICLE 24	HEALTH AND SAFETY
24.01	Occupational Health and Safety shall be as required by the laws of the Province of Manitoba.
24.02	Cooperation on Safety
The Union and the employer shall cooperate in establishing rules and practices which promote an occupational environment which will enhance the physiological and psychological conditions of employees and which will provide protection from factors adverse to employee health and safety.
24.03	Union - Employer Health and Safety Committee
A Health and Safety Committee shall be established which is composed of not less than two (2) and not more than three (3) Union and an equal number of Employer representatives. The Health and Safety Committee shall hold meetings as requested by the Union or by the employer for jointly considering
-2(5-
monitoring, inspecting, investigating and reviewing health and safety conditions and practices and to improve existing health and safety conditions and practices. Minutes shall be taken of all meetings and copies shall be sent to the employer and the Union. A Union Health and Safety Representative shall have the right to participate in the monitoring of the work place and to accompany government safety inspectors on inspection tours.
24.04	Health and Safety Committee Pav Provisions
Time spent by members of the Committee in the course of their duties shall be considered as time worked and shall be paid for in accordance with the terms of this Agreement.
24.05	Health and Safety Clothing. Tools and Equipment
The employer shall provide all employees working in any unsanitaiy or potentially hazardous jobs with all the necessary tools, protective equipment and protective clothing required. These shall be maintained and replaced, where necessary through normal wear and tear at the employer's expense. It is recognized that such protective equipment and clothing are temporary measures. The conditions necessitating their use shall be subjected to further corrective measures through engineering changes or the elimination of the hazard. The employees shall use and assume responsibility for the reasonable care of all safety equipment supplied to them. In the event that such safety equipment is lost or is not returned on demand, the Company shall be entitled to' deduct the cost of same from the employee's wages. It is understood that the said safety equipment shall not be deemed to include such personal necessities as overalls or any other Article which becomes the property of the employee.
24.06	Monitoring equipment
The employer shall provide and maintain work place monitoring equipment for detecting and recording potential and actual health and safety hazards.
24.07	Compliance with Health and Safety Legislation
The employer shall comply with all applicable Federal, Provincial and Municipal Health and Safety Legislation and Regulations. All standards established under the Legislation and regulations shall constitute minimum acceptable practice to be improved upon by agreement of the Union-Employer Health and Safety Committee or negotiations with the Union.
24.08
a£
ti
The employer shall provide the Union written information which identifies all the biological agents, compounds, substances, by-products and physical hazards associated with the work environment. Where applicable, this information shall include, but not restricted to, the chemical breakdown of trade name descriptions, information on known and suspected potential hazards, the maximum concentration exposure levels, precautions to be taken, symptoms, medical treatment and antidotes.
24.09	Safety and Health Records. Reports and Data
The employer shall provide the Health and Safety Committee upon request all accident reports and other Health and Safety records in the possession of the employer, including records, reports and data provided to and by the Workers's Compensation Board and other government departments and agencies.
24.10	Timp PFF for Health and Safety Training
Union members of the Health and Safety Committee shall be entitled to time off from work provided that such time off shall not unreasonably affect the operation of the Company with no loss of seniority or earnings to attend seminars sponsored by the Manitoba Worker's Compensation Board for instruction and upgrading on Health and Safety matters provided that the content of such seminars is reasonably appropriate to circumstances of this industry.
24.11	Right to Refuse and no Disciplinary Action
No employee shall be discharged, penalized or disciplined for refusing to work on a job or any workplace or to operate any equipment where he/she in conjunction with the Health and Safety Committee, ascertains that it would be unsafe or unhealthy to himself/herself, an unborn child, a workmate or the public, or where it would be contrary to the applicable Federal, Provincial or Municipal Health and Safety Legislation or Regulations. There shall be no loss of pay or seniority during the period of refusal provided that such refusal was reasonable. No employee shall be ordered or permitted to work on a job which another worker has refused until the matter is investigated by the Health and Safety Committee and satisfactorily settled.
24.12	Proper Training
No employee shall be required to work on any job or operate any piece of equipment until he/she has received proper training and instructions.
-22-
24.13
Iniurv Pav Provisions
An employee who is injured during working hours, and is required to leave for treatment or is sent home as a result of such injury shall receive payment for the remainder of the shift at his/her regular rate of pay, without deduction from sick leave, unless a doctor or nurse states that the employee is fit for further work on that shift.
24.14	Transportation of Accident Victims
Transportation to the nearest physician or hospital for employees requiring medical care as a result of an accident shall be at the expense of the employer.
24.15	Health and Safety Grievance
Where a dispute involving a question of general application or interpretation of this Article occurs, it shall be subject to the grievance procedure.
24.16	After absence due to illness or injury, an employee will be returned to his job if capable of performing the work. If required by the Company, the employee will provide confirmation from a duly qualified independent medical doctor of his ability to return to work and perform the duties required by the job, and the Company shall pay for the costs of such medical examination.
24.17	The Employer will provide in a convenient location earplugs which may be changed as needed.
ARTICLE 25 STRIKES OR LOCKOUTS DURING LIFE OF AGREEMENT
25.01	It is agreed that the Union will not, during the life of this
agreement, authorize, promote, direct, condone, or encourage a strike of employees affected by this Agreement nor will employees take part in such action. It is agreed, that the Company will not, during the life of this Agreement, lockout employees.
ARTICLE 26 GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
26.01	In the event of any controversy concerning the meaning or
application or alleged violation of any provision of this Agreement, there shall be no
-23-
suspension of work but such controversy shall be treated as a grievance and shall be settled, if possible, by the employees and the Company in the following manner:
STEP 1 By a discussion between the employee and the Shop Steward and/or Union Representative with the employee’s immediate supervisor or his or her designated appointee. The immediate supervisor or his or her designated appointee shall reply to the grievance in writing, to the Union, within five (5) calendar days. If a satisfactory settlement has not been reached, the Union Representative and/or employee may proceed to Step 2.
STEP 2 The Union Representative or Representatives may take the matter up with the Employer official designated by the Employer to handle Labour Relations matters. If the matter is not taken up within ten (10) calendar days of the date the Union received the written reply to the grievance in Step 1, it shall be deemed to have been abandoned and further recourse to the Grievance Procedure shall be forfeited.
26.02	All grievances shall be presented to the Company in writing within fifteen (15) working days of the event giving rise to such grievance. If notice in writing is not received by the Company within the time limits above set forth, then such grievance shall be considered as having been waived and abandoned by the Union and the employee involved, and it shall not thereafter form a basis of a grievance, or arbitration proceedings between the Union or an employee and the Company.
26.03	If a satisfactory settlement cannot be reached, then upon request of either party within fourteen (14) calendar days of receiving the final written decision from either party but not thereafter, the matter may then be referred to an arbitrator selected in accordance with Article 27.
ARTICLE 27 ARBITRATION
27.01	If the Union and the Employer cannot reach an adjustment, upon
request of either party, the grievance shall be submitted to an arbitrator. In the event the parties are unable to agree on an arbitrator within five (5) working days, then the matter will be referred to the Manitoba Labour Board who will appoint an arbitrator.
-24-
The arbitrator shall not be deemed to be willing to act unless s/he is in the position to convene the hearing within twenty-eight (28) days from the date of his/her selection.
The decision of the arbitrator shall be given within a period of twenty-one (21) days after the closing of the arbitration hearing.
27.02	The person selected as arbitrator shall in no way be involved directly in the controversy under consideration, or be a person who has a personal or financial interest in either party to the dispute.
27.03	The arbitrator shall receive and consider such material evidence and contentions as the parties may offer and shall make such independent investigation as s/he deems essential to a full understanding and determination of the issues involved. In reaching his/her decision, the arbitrator shall be governed by the provisions of this Agreement.
27.04	The arbitrator shall not be vested with the power to change, modify or alter any of the terms of this Agreement. All grievances submitted shall present an arbitrable issue under this Agreement, and shall not depend on or involve an issue or contention by either party which is contrary to any provisions of this Agreement, or which involves the determining of a subject matter not covered by or arising during the term of this Agreement.
27.05	In the event of termination, discharge or suspension of an employee, the arbitrator shall have the right to sustain the Employer's action or to reinstate the employee with full, part or no back pay, with or without loss of seniority, or to settle the matter in any way s/he deems equitable.
27.06	The findings and decisions of the arbitrator shall be binding and enforceable on all parties involved.
27.07'	It is the intention of the parties that this article shall provide a
peaceful method of adjusting all grievances, so that there shall be no suspension or interruption of normal operations as a result of any grievances. The parties shall act in good faith in proceeding to adjust grievances in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement.
27.08	The expenses and fees of the arbitrator shall be borne equally by
the parties to the arbitration proceedings.
-25-
27.09
Mediation
The Company and the Union agree that at any time prior to the hearing date for an arbitration they may voluntarily agree to use a mutually acceptable mediator in their attempts to resolve the grievance. It is expressly understood and agreed between the parties that any such mediator has no authority or powers under the terms of the Collective Agreement to impose or require the parties to accept his or her suggested settlement to the matter in dispute. All expenses and fees that may be incurred by such mediator shall be borne equally by the Company and the Union. Unless otherwise mutually agreed to between die Company and the Union, this procedure may only be used in situations where grievance mediation services are not available through provincial legislation. Mediation meetings are held without prejudice. Any discussions, proposed settlement and/or admissions made during mediation may not be referred to by either party during arbitration.
ARTICLE 28 WAGES
28.01	M n The parties agree that there shall be attached to this Agreement, Schedule ^ which shall set forth in detail the classification and wages of all employees. The Company agrees to pay all persons covered by the terms of this Agreement not less than the schedule of wages listed in Schedule "A" during such time as this Agreement is in force. If an employee is receiving a wage rate in excess of the rate herein contained as a result of a previously existing length of service rate, such wage rate shall continue and not be affected by reason of this Agreement.
28.02	When an employee is assigned temporarily to a higher rated job for more than four (4) hours, the higher rate shall be paid for all hours worked in the position.
When an employee is assigned temporarily to a lower rated job the employee will nevertheless continue to receive his/her higher rate of pay for all hours worked in the position. It is understood that this does not include classification changes.
28.03	■ In the event that a change in production methods will lead to a
change in job categories and shifts, the Company and the Union agree to negotiate new rates applicable to those new categories and shifts created by the change.
-26-
28.04
Classification and wages - SEE SCHEDULE "A".
28.05	If a new classification is created within the bargaining unit the
Company agrees to meet with the Union and to negotiate a rate of pay for this new classification. If the parties cannot reach an agreement then at the request of either party, the matter shall be submitted to arbitration procedure of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 29 SHIFT PREMIUMS
29.01	A shift premium will be paid for all hours worked on the second (2nd) shift of sixty (600) cents per hour and on the third (3rd) shift of seventy (700) cents per hour.
29.02	The second shift is defined as any shift which starts after twelve (12:00) noon and a third shift is defined as any shift which starts after the second shift, but does not include the day shift.
ARTICLE 30 APPENDICES AND LETTERS OF UNDERSTANDING
30.01	All appendices and Letters of Understanding attached to this
Agreement will form an integral part of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 31 DURATION OF AGREEMENT
31.01	This Agreement shall be in full force and effect from May 1st,
2001, and shall continue in full force and effect until the 30th day of April, 2005, and shall continue thereafter from year to year, until terminated by either party giving notice to the other party of such termination not more than ninety (90) days and not less than thirty (30) days prior to the expiration date of this Agreement or on the anniversary of such expiry date. If amendments are contemplated by either party to become effective in an ensuing Agreement, the parties proposing such amendment shall give notice in writing thereof to the other party not more than ninety (90) days and not less than thirty (30) days prior to the expiry date of this Agreement. Upon notice being given for revision of this Agreement as aforesaid, this Agreement and all their terms
-27-
and provisions hereof shall remain in force and effect during any period of negotiations between the parties.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, THE PARTIES HERETO HAVE DULY EXECUTED THIS AGREEMENT.
SIGNED THIS £ 7 ^ DAY OF MdOiM QUA , 2001.
-28-
SCHEDULE"A”
WAGES
A-l Classifications and Hourly Rates ofPav
Effective Effective Effective Apr.29/01 Apr.28/02 Mav 4/03
PACKER
Start
after 2 months after 4 months
$ 12.22 12.62 12.98
$ 12.57 12.97 13.33
$ 12.92 13.32 13.68
General Labour, Maintenance or Production
GRADE I Labour. Shipping. Receiving		- Warehouse	
Start	13.23	13.58	13.93
after 2 months	13.67	14.02	14.37
after 4 months	14.11	14.46	14.81
Maintenance or Production			
GRADE n			
Start	14.27	14.62	14.97
after 2 months	14.54	14.89	15.24
after 4 months	14.89	15.24	15.59
Maintenance or Production			
GRADE TTI			
Start	14.82	15.17	15.52
after 2 months	15.27	15.62	15.97
after 4 months	15.65	16.00	16.35
Effective Mav 2/04
S 13.27 13.67
14.03
14.28
14.72
15.16
15.32
15.59
15.94
15.87
16.32
16.70
Maintenance or Production
	Effective	Effective	Effective	Effective
	Anr.29/01	Apr.28/02	Mav 4/03	Mav 2/04
GRADE IV				
Start	15.63	15.98	16.33	16.68
after 2 months	16.05	16.40	16.75	17.10
after 4 months	16.47	16.82	17.17	17.52
Maintenance or Production				
GRADE V Hiph Skill - Mechanical or		Electrical		
Electrical				
Start	16.36	16.71	17.06	17.41
after 2 months	16.77	17.12	17.47	17.82
after 4 months	17.32	17.67	18.02	18,37
Frvers				
Start	15.59	15.94	16.29	16.64
after 6 months	16.36	16.71	17.06	17.41
after 12 months	17.03	17.38	17.73	18.08
SuddIv Clerk				
Start	14.99	15.34	15.69	16.04
after 2 months	15.45	15.80	16.15	16.50
after 4 months	15.85	16.20	16.55	16.90
Temporary Help	11.48	11.83	12.18	12.53
All temporary help shall receive the applicable classification rate after they have completed two (2) or four (4)months worked respectively in any one (1) year.
-30-
A-2 An employee who has completed one (1) year or more of service with the Company shall receive ten (IOC) cents over the above rates.
A-3 Lead Hand
Where the Company appoints a Lead Hand, the person so appointed shall be paid a premium of forty-five (450) cents per hour in addition to his or her regular wages. The said premium shall only be paid while the employee is appointed to Lead Hand duties.
A-4 Retroactive Pav
Retroactive pay to be paid retroactive to May 1, 2001, for all hours worked and/or paid, to all employees on the payroll as of date of ratification, by regular cheque with separate deductions, within three (3) weeks of ratification.
A-5 Overscale Employees
If any employee is overscaled s/he shall receive the same increase as all other employees and shall remain overscaled for the life of this Agreement.
-31 -
APPENDIX “B»
HEALTH AND WELFARE BENEFITS
B-l_______Group Insurance Benefits
The Company agrees to provide the following benefits:
B-l.01 Group Life Insurance - coverage in the amount of $35,000 effective May 2, 2001; $40,000 effective May 2, 2003
plus Accidental Death coverage in the amount of $35,000 effective May 2, 2001; $40,000 effective May 2, 2003
B-l.02 Weekly Indemnity Benefits of seventy (70%)percent of earnings to the maximum established by El; first (1st) day for accident, surgery or hospitalization and fourth (4th) day for sickness - benefits to cover twenty-six (26) weeks.
B-l.03	An employee receiving sick pay will be deducted twenty (20%)percent for
income tax purposes.
B-l.04	Employees shall be eligible to join in the Health Welfare Plan following
three (3) months of service.
B-l.05	The employees will have the option of having'Weekly Indemnity Benefits
cheques mailed directly to the employee's home (if so requested in writing by the employee) or to be picked up at the Company's premises.
B-2_______Dental Plan
B-2.01 The Company agrees to make a direct contribution to the Manitoba Food & Commercial Workers Dental Plan of thirty-one (31C) cents per hour for each hour of actual work in respect to all employees in the bargaining unit. Contributions shall include sick pay (excluding Weekly Indemnity Benefits), vacations and general holidays, to a maximum of the basic work week.
32
During the life of this Agreement, the Company agrees to pay up to an additional two (2C) cents (to a maximum of thirty-fou^((|j§||SI) per hour in addition to the above mentioned cents per hour, in order to continue the existing benefits, or improve the benefits, or to go to the next annual dental fee schedule.
B-2.02 Such contributions shall be forwarded to the trust within twenty-one (21) days following the Company's four (4) or five (5) week accounting period.
B-2.03 The Company agrees to comply with all requests of the Board of Trustees in regards to the entry into the Plan and to abide by all the rules and decisions of the Board of Trustees as decided from time to time.
B-3 UFCW Retirement Savings Plan
B-3.01 The Company will administer through payroll deductions, a voluntary group retirement savings plan known as the United Food and Commercial Workers Retirement Savings Plan. On a calendar year basis, the employee will determine the amount to be deducted weekly from regular earnings and this shall remain unchanged during the year except where no paycheque is issued and in such case, no deduction will be made. Such deductions will be remitted to the group retirement savings plan by the Company on a monthly basis.
B-3.02 The Company will make payroll deductions fi-om and contributions to one Retirement Savings Plan per employee at any one time.
B-4________Vision Care Plan
B-4.01 Effective date of ratification, all employees shall be entitled to vision care benefits for themselves to a maximum of one hundred ($100.00) dollars per employee every two (2) years towards the purchase of eyeglasses and/or contact lenses.
Effective May 1, 2003, vision care will be extended to employees' eligible dependants in the same amount as above. Children will be considered eligible dependants if they are under 18 years of age, or up to 25 years of age if living at home and attending school full-time, or if they are disabled and over 18 years of age.
-33-
B-5
Retirement Savings Plan
B-5.01 The Company will provide a Retirement Plan with the following provisions:
(a)	the Company will contribute three (3%) percent of gross earnings of covered employees;
(b)	employees will contribute three (3%) percent of gross earnings;
(c)	the plan will be compulsory for all Union members;
(d)	employees will be eligible to join the Plan after one (1) year or more of continuous service;
(e)	one hundred (100%)percent vesting after five (5) years' service (two (2) years after January 1, 1990) in accordance with Manitoba Pension Legislation.
-34-
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
BETWEEN:
OLD DUTCH FOODS LTD.,
WINNIPEG, MANITOBA, hereinafter called "the Company",
AND
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS UNION, LOCAL NO. 832,
chartered by the United Food & Commercial Workers International Union, hereinafter called "the Union".
1. Training
The parties agree to create a Joint Labour Management Committee comprised of up to four (4) employees chosen by the Union and up to four (4) management representatives. The committee shall discuss issues of job training and training opportunities in the workplace. The committee will meet during working hours and time spent in the meeting will be considered as time worked at the regular rate of pay. The committee will hold its first meeting within forty-five (45) days of ratification and any findings or recommendations will be presented to Management and the Union within a further ninety (90) days. Thereafter, the committee will meet on an as-needed basis at the call of either party, but not more than four (4) times a year.
Findings or recommendations by the committee will not be binding on the Company or the Union, and will not be subject to the grievance procedure. However, all parties shall work in good faith to gain a consensus.
The Union Representative shall be allowed to attend all meetings.
-35-
Letter of Understanding page 2
2. Rveninp Shift
In the event the Employer must extend the evening (2nd) shift beyond the scheduled shift the Employer wlH make every reasonable effort to notify the employees affected prior to the start of the shift.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, THE PARTIES HERETO HAVE DULY EXECUTIVE THIS LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING.
SIGNED THIS <2- 7	DAY OF	, 2001.
FOR THE COMPANY:
-36-
EXHIBIT ONE
NOTICE OF HIRE
Employee's Name ___________________
Address ___________________________
City_______________________________
Phone_________________ Date of Hire
Social Insurance Number____________
Employer__________________________________ Job Classification_
Full-time—	Part-time—	Casual
Postal Code________
________ Birthdate
Dues Authorization
I, hereby, request and authorize the Employer to deduct from my wages, and pay to the Union, such Union dues requested by the United Food and Commercial Workers, Local No. 832.
Date:_____________________ Signature:____________________________________________
(To be mailed to the Union office within 10 calendar days from date of hire or rehire.)
TO THE EMPLOYEE:
1.	You are hereby informed that payment of Union dues is a condition of employment.
2.	The Union will be notified that you have received this statement and may approach you to make an application for membership with the full-time Union Representative, Shop Steward, or die Union office.
Union Offices
1412 Portage Avenue, Winnipeg, Manitoba, R3G 0V5, Phone 786-5055 Unit 1 - 759 - lsl Street, Brandon, Manitoba, R7A 2X5, Phone 727-7131 90 Thompson Drive, Thompson, Manitoba, R8N 1Y9, Phone 778-7108
-37-