COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
RATIFIED THIS 11 th DAY OF July 2004
between	OLD DUTCH FOODS LTD.
Calgary, Alberta hereinafter called the Company
and	UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS
Local 3 73 A Calgary, Alberta Chartered by the
United Food and Commercial Workers International Union,
AFL-CIO & CLC,
hereinafter referred to as the Union
1 5 FEV. 2005
INDEX
Article	Page
Adoption Leave (ParentalLeave)..............................................9.2.......11,12
Arbitration .................................................................20..........22
Bargaining Agency.............................................................1...........3
Bereavement Leave............................................................10..........13
Dues Deduction................................................................1
Discipline...................................................................15
Duration of Agreement.,......................................................22
Funeral Leave (Bereavement Leave)............................................10
Grievance Procedure..........................................................19
Group Insurance & Weekly Indemnity.........................................14.1
Health & Welfare Plan.....................................................14.1
Health & Safety Committee..................................................14.4
Hours of Work.................................................................4
Jury Duty....................................................................13
Leave of Absence.............................................................12
Life Insurance............................................................
Management Rights.............................................................2
Meal Period.................................................................4.6
Medical Benefits...........................................................14.1
No Discrimination.............................................................3
Notice.......................................................................16
Notice Boards..............................................................17.1
Overtime.............................................................4,2,4.4,4.5
Physical Examinations......................................................17.4
Pregnancy Leave (Maternity Leave)...........................................9.1
Rest Periods................................................................4.6
Retroactive Pay..........................................Letter of Understanding........31
Seniority....................................................................8.
Statutory Holidays.,.........................................................5.
Successors & Assigns.........................................................21
Technological Change.......................................................6.3.
Time QBE for Union Business..................................................11
Time QBE to Vote.........................................................17.9 ■
Vacations....................................................................7.
Wages......................................................6 & Schedules A & B....7,8,24,27
Wearing Apparel.,.....................................................17.2,17.3.......19,20
This index is only for easy reference, conversant with all its provisions.
Members are encouraged to read this Agreement and be
When in doubt as to the interpretation of any section of this Agreement. phone your Union Office at 279-0341
2
In consideration of the mutual covenants herein contained, the parties hereto agree with the other as follows:
PURPOSE OF AGREEMENT
The Company and Union desire to establish and maintain conditions which will promote a harmonious relationship between the Company and the employees covered by the terms of this Agreement and desire to provide methods of fair and amicable adjustments of disputes which may arise between them.
ARTICLE 1
UNION RECOGNITION
1.1	The Company recognizes the Union as the sole collective bargaining agent for all employees in the plant operated in Calgary, Alberta, except clerical and sales personnel. If the Company closes the Calgary plant and opens a new plant located within 40 kilometers of Calgary's city limits, the Company will recognize the Union as bargaining agent for the same unit of employees in the new plant.
1.2	Any employee who at the date of this Agreement is a member of the Union, or who becomes a member of the Union after the date, shall as a condition of employment, maintain such membership during the term of this Agreement.
The Company shall be free to hire or to rehire new employees who are not members of the Union, provided said non-members shall be eligible for membership in the Union. Membership in the Union shall be voluntary.
Employees who are Union members shall be considered to have maintained membership in the Union in good standing so long as they pay uniform union dues, initiation fees and special assessments required of all members.
1.3	The Company agrees to deduct from the wages of each employee affected, such initiation fees and Union dues as are authorized by regular and proper vote of the membership of the Union and the provisions of the Alberta Labour Code.
1.4	Monies deducted during any month shall be forwarded by the Company to the Secretary-Treasurer of the Union not later than ten (10) days following the end of the Employer's four (4) or five (5) week accounting period accompanied by a written statement of the names of the employees for whom the deductions were made, and amount of each deduction.
1.5	It is expressly agreed and understood that the Union assumes full responsibility for the validity and legality of such employee's deductions as are made by the Company and hereby agrees to
3
indemnify and save the Company harmless by virtue of such collections and payments to the Union.
1.6	The Company agrees to provide the Union in Writing, with the name, address, and telephone number of each new employee at the date of hire and of all terminations and layoffs within two (2) weeks.
ARTICLE 2
MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
The Union recognizes and agrees that except as specifically delegated, granted or modified by this Agreement, all of the rights, powers and authority which the Company had prior to the signing of this Agreement are retained solely and exclusively by the Company and remain without limitation within the rights of Management.
For greater certainty, but without limiting the generality of the foregoing the Company reserves the sole and exclusive right to operate and manage its affairs and facilities in all respects as it sees fit, including the right to hire, direct and schedule its workforce; to promote, demote, transfer, layoff, suspend, discipline, and discharge for just cause; determine job content; assign work; determine qualifications of employees to perform work; establish methods to make policies, process and means of performing work; make, establish, publish and enforce rules and regulations governing the conduct of employees and the Company’s facilities, equipment and operations; to determine the number of employees to be employed and the duties performed; to establish, expand, reduce, alter, consolidate or abolish any job classification or department; to discontinue, reorganize or combine departments or any branch or unit of operations, with any consequent reduction or other changes in the workforce.
In administering this Agreement, the Company shall act reasonably, fairly, and in good faith and in a manner consistent with the Collective Agreement as a whole..
ARTICLE 3 NO DISCRIMINATION
The Company and Union agree not to discriminate against any employee or prospective employee because of membership or activity in the Union, or because of race, creed, color, sex, age, or place of national origin. Further, there shall be no discrimination against any employee for refusal to cross a legal picket line or obey a lawful Union order.
Any employee alleging discrimination may place his or her allegation before the Union and if the Union considers that the objection has merit, the allegation shall become a grievance and subject to the grievance procedure as established in this Agreement.
ARTICLE 4 - 4 -
HOURS OF WORK
4.1	Forty (40) hours per week, consisting of five (5) days of eight (8) hours each shall constitute the basic workweek. All Full-Time and Part-Time employees shall be scheduled for a minimum of two (2) consecutive days off per week. There shall be no obligation for the Company to schedule an employee to provide an employee with the same number of hours of work each day. Further, this provision shall not be construed as a guarantee of work.
4.2	A) The use of Alternative Work Week Schedules (AWWS) may be applied to any group in the plant as needed. Implementation of an AWWS shall be at the discretion of the Company.
B)	A compressed (Alternative) Work Week Schedule will consist of daily regular hours of up to forty (40) hours in one week. The employee will receive extra scheduled days off compared to the basic work schedule and such days shall be in lieu of overtime.
C)	For Full-Time employees on AWWS, all hours worked in excess of the daily or weekly scheduled hours of the AWWS shall be deemed as overtime. All Full-Time and Part-Time employees shall be scheduled for a minimum of two (2) consecutive days off per week.
D)	The basic workday shall be scheduled for each group of employees separately.
When designating shifts, the posting process will apply.
4.3	If an employee misses any time during their regular work week because of a dentist or doctors appointment he/she will receive time and one-half (1 V2) for the first addional day and double time (2X) for further additional days, provided that such appointments are prearranged with the Resource. Employees must provide the Company with a doctor's certificate if required. Overtime rates do not apply to employees who miss time during the scheduled workweek of their own volition or by reason of suspension for just cause
4.4	All time worked in excess of the daily or weekly hours shall be considered as overtime and paid at one-half (1 1/2) the regular rate. Part-Time employees on less than an eight (8) hour shift must complete eight (8) hours to be eligible for overtime.
4.5	In the event overtime is necessary, the overtime will be assigned on a shift and departmental basis, and will be offered to the most senior qualified and capable employees. The employees with less than 4 hours overtime that week will be selected first during their regular workweek.
An employee may request to be excused from overtime. This request may be granted unless no other qualified and capable employee is available to replace him or her, or an emergency exists, which demands his/her presence. If there are insufficient volunteers the work may be assigned by reverse seniority using the above principle.
5
4.6	Daily hours of work shall be consecutive and will include the following paid rest periods:
A)	Two (2) twenty minutes periods during each eight (8) hour shift.
B)	One (1) ten minutes period and two (2) twenty minute periods during each ten (10) hour shift.
C)	Three (3) twenty minutes periods during each twelve (12) hour shifts.
There shall be no unpaid lunch breaks.
Time for each rest period shall be computed as time in the lunchroom
4.7	The Company shall .advise employees of any changes in their basic workweek prior to Friday noon of each workweek. If no changes have been communicated prior to Friday noon then the schedule in effect shall apply for the following week. However, the schedule of any employee may be changed without notice in the event of unscheduled absence of fellow employees, the event of emergencies, such as breakdowns, lack of work or acts of God. In all other cases, at least twelve (12) hours notice of any change must be given or four (4) hours pay granted in lieu of notice.
4.8	Each employee reporting for work shall be entitled to four (4) hours work or four (4) hours pay for that time if there is no work available, provided that the reason for lack of work is the fault of the Company.
The Company will make reasonable effort to contact all its employees. It will be the employee's responsibility to keep their Resource informed of any changes to telephone numbers or addresses. Failing to do so, the employee will not be entitled to any pay in lieu of notice.
4.9	The Company shall provide a time clock or clocks to enable employees to record their time for payroll purposes. Employees shall record their own time when they start and finish work and as further directed by the Company.
6
ARTICLE 5
STATUTORY HOLIDAYS
5.1	New Year's Day	Labour Day	Thanksgiving Day
Good Friday	Family Day	Remembrance Day
Victoria Day	Christmas Day	Calgary Day
Canada Day	Boxing Day
In the event that any of the above Holidays or declared Holidays fall on a Full-Time or PartTime employee's regular day off, the employee will be given a day-in-lieu and shall be paid the number of hours they would normally have worked on that day-in-lieu. Employees shall receive pay for Statutory Holidays or Holidays, provided they work their full scheduled work day before and after the Holiday, unless absent due to bona fide illness (doctor's certificate) or accident.
5.2	An employee entitled to Statutory Holidays with pay, if required to work on such a day, shall receive in addition to their regular pay for the Holiday, straight time and one-half (1 Vi) for each hour worked on said Holiday.
5.3	Casual and Part-Time employees will be eligible for General Holiday pay equal to the daily average hours for the preceding 4 weeks if that employee has worked for 30 days or more in the 12 months preceding the General Holiday.
Full-Time employees shall be paid a minimum of eight (8) hours statutory Holiday pay or paid for the number of hours they would have worked on such day, or days, if it was not a Holiday, whichever is greater.
ARTICLE 6 WAGES
6.1	The parties agree that there shall be attached to this Agreement, Schedule "A" which shall set forth, in detail, the classification and wages of all employees. The Company agrees to pay all persons covered by the terms of this Agreement not less than the schedule of wages listed in Schedule "A" during such time as this Agreement is in force.
6.2	In the event of a change in production methods that will lead to a change in job categories and shifts, the Company and Union agree to negotiate new rates applicable to those new categories and shifts created by the change.
6.3	a] The Union agrees it is the sole right and function of management to change methods of facilities, and to install equipment of all kinds, and to make such other changes to its operations as it deems necessary.
7
b]	In the event the Company proposes the introduction of equipment in its operations, the Company agrees to give first opportunity to employees on the payroll.
c]	In the selection of employees for training as a result of technological changes, assignments will be made on seniority basis, qualifications, ability and skill. If qualifications, ability, and skill are equal, then seniority shall govern.
d]	The Company shall provide the Union, at least forty-five (45) days notice before the introduction of a technological change, disclosing all foreseeable effects and repercussions on employees.
6.4	In the event that new employees demonstrate proven experience and abilities by experience in another similar Company, the Company may waive the standard sixty (60) days waiting period in order to pay that employee at standard rates of pay. This will in no way be constituted as a waiver of an employee’s probationary period for purposes of either job assessment or eligibility to enter benefit programs.
ARTICLE 7 VACATIONS
7.1	The anniversary date of all employees for an earned vacation with pay shall be December 31 of each year.
7.2	An employee shall be entitled to a vacation as per the following table.
Jan to March April to June July to September October to December
1 st yr service in terms of days		vacation work weeks earned as of Dec 31 of each year				
5 day work week	4 day work week	2nd & 3rd yr	4th yr	5th - 9th	1 Qth	11th & over
" ""HIT""	: '& "	2	3	3	4	4
8	8	2	3	3	4	4
5	> 4	2	3	3	4	4
3	: ■ 2 ■	2	3	3	4	4
7.3	Earned vacation shall be scheduled between January 1st and December 31st of each year. Vacation shall be granted on the basis of seniority. In the event that vacation schedules have not been selected by April 1st, vacations may be assigned by the Company. It is understood that the Company has the right to limit the number of employees who may be away on vacation at any one time.
7.4	The Company reserves the right to close the plant for one (1) week or more for vacation purposes. The Company will give to the employee a minimum of two (2) weeks notice in writing of the date before closing the plant.
8
7.5	The amount of vacation pay shall be computed by applying a percentage to the prior calendar years earnings as set forth in the following schedule:
Month Hired	1st	2nd & 3rd	4th	5th to 9th	10th	11 & over
Jan. to Feb.	4.0%	4.0%	6.0%	6.0%	8.0%	8.0%
Mar. to Apr.	4.0%	4.0%	5.6%	6.0%	7.6%	8.0%
May to June	4.0%	4.0%	5.2%	6.0%	7.2%	8.0%
July to Aug.	4.0%	4.0%	4.8%	6.0%	6.8%	8.0%
Sept, to Oct	4.0%	4.0%	4.4%	6.0%	6.4%	8.0%
Nov. to Dec.	4.0%	4.0%	4.0%	6.0%	6.0%	8.0%
An employee entitled to three (3) weeks vacation, may upon request be granted three (3) weeks consecutively during the period of January 1 stto May 1 st of any year.
To accommodate employees during summer months, employees will be entitled to two (2) weeks only during the months of June, July and August unless otherwise agreed in writing between the employee and the Company.
The employee shall receive vacation pay immediately prior to going on vacation.
7.6	When a Statutory Holiday occurs during an employee's vacation and the Company's place of business is closed by reasons of such Holiday, the Company agrees to give the employee another day with pay in lieu of the Statutory Holiday within six months.
7.7	An employee with earned but unpaid vacation upon termination of employment will receive a vacation based on two percent (2%) of total wages earned for each week of entitlement.
Vacation schedules for employees on an AWWS will normally mirror the AWWS regardless if it overlaps two pay periods.
ARTICLE 8 SENIORITY
8.1	Newly hired employees will be subject to a probationary period of sixty (60) days worked. Current employees will be subject to a qualifying period of forty-five (45) days worked when they enter a new classification.
The Company reserves the right to extend the probationary period of any employee (in writing) to an additional twenty-five (25) days maximum.
Notwithstanding the above, no probationary period shall exceed ninety (90) calendar days,
8.2	The Company agrees to make an up to date seniority list of all hourly paid employees and post on the bulletin board in the coffee room every six (6) months, and a copy forwarded to the Union office.
9
8.3	a) In cases of lay-offs and reduction of work force, the probationary and casual employees will be laid off first. In all other cases of layoffs, reduction of work force, reemployment, filling of new positions and filling of job vacancies, the Company will give consideration to seniority, the individual qualifications of the employee and the efficient operation of its plant and business. When qualifications of two or more employees are equal, then seniority shall be the final factor in deciding who will receive the position, or who will be laid off. "Qualifications" as used in this Article shall include an employee's attendance record.
b) The Company agrees, insofar as is possible, to give at least ten (10) days notice in case of long-term layoffs except where the work stoppage is caused by events beyond the control of the Company.
8.4	After absence due to injury or illness the employee must be returned to his/her job without loss of seniority when capable of performing his/her duties provided two (2) years has not elapsed between the return and the last day worked, in case of compensable accident and one (1) year in the case of illness or non-compensable accident. The Company reserves the right to decide if the employee is capable of performing his or her duties. Upon recuperation from an extended absence, the employee will give the Company one (1) week notice of his/her intention to return to work.
If there is a re-occurrence of the illness or injury that caused the original absence within one (1) month from the date of return, then the absence is considered to have continued. It is understood that the actual time worked will be added to the time limits specified above before the termination is effected.
8.5	Seniority shall be defined for the purpose of this Agreement as the net credited service to the employee. Upon satisfactory completion of the probationary period, the employee will be placed on the seniority list and his/her seniority will be dated back to the beginning of his/her employment. When Casual employee's status changes to Full-Time or Part-Time employment, their seniority will start on the date their status changed.
8.6	In cases of filling job vacancies where the Company requires a replacement, or creating new jobs, the job shall be posted on the bulletin board for a period of ten (10) calendar days. Within this period, employees may apply for the job. If no suitable applications are received, the Company may then hire a person to fill the job.
8.7	An employee selected to fill the posted job position will be on a trial for up to forty-five (45) working days. If successful, the forty-five (45) working day period will be credited to the classification requirement.
If the employee is unable to perform the work, or if such employee so requests, the employee will revert to their former classification within the trial of forty-five (45) working day period. Under these circumstances, hours worked in the new classification will not be credited to the classification requirement.
10 -
8.8	If the Company cancels the job posting after an employee has been awarded the position, he (she) will be entitled to the next vacancy for the same job for up to a period of six (6) months from the date of cancellation.
8.9	When Temporary Work Assignments (TWA) are required, the following shall apply;
(a)	Employees, plant wide, shall be canvassed starting with the most senior person capable of performing the assignment. In the event that no employee wishes to accept the assignment then the most junior person capable of performing the job will be assigned.
(b)	Employees on a TWA will be paid at the rate of pay of the new classification, or their current rate of pay, whichever is the greater. Hours accumulated will be applied to the TWA classification.
(c)	All Temporary Work Assignment shall be in writing, signed by the employee and Business Unit Leader or designated Resource, and provide a copy to the Payroll Department.
ARTICLE 9
MATERNITY AND ADOPTION LEAVE
9.1	A pregnant employee who has been employed with the Company for at least nine (9) consecutive months of service is entitled to maternity leave without pay.
(a)	Such leave will be granted provided the employee submits to the Company a request in writing for such leave at least two (2) weeks prior to the date she intends to commence such leave, together with a certificate from a qualified medical practitioner, certifying that she is pregnant and indicating the date of delivery.
(b)	Such leave may be for a period not more than fifteen (15) weeks. At any time prior to the estimated date of delivery the pregnancy of an employee interferes with the performance of her duties, the Company may give the employee written notice requiring her to start maternity leave.
(c)	An eligible employee will be entitled to collect Employment Insurance (El) benefits in the amounts for a time period as provided under the El Act.
PARENTAL LEAVE
11
9.2	(a) An employee who has been employed with the Company for at least nine (9) consecutive
months shall be entitled to parental leave without pay.
(b)	Parental leave shall be granted as follows:
(i)	in the case of an employee entitled to maternity leave under Article 9.1, a period of not more than thirty-seven (37) consecutive weeks immediately following the last day of the maternity leave;
(ii)	the case of a parent, a period of not more than thirty-seven (37) consecutive weeks, within fifty-two (52) weeks after the child’s birth;
(iii)	in the case of an adoptive parent, a period of not more than thirty-seven (37) consecutive weeks within fifty-two (52) weeks after the child is placed with the adoptive parent for the purpose of adoption.
(c)	Adoption leave will be granted to an employee who is the adoptive parent of a child under three (3) years of age.
(d)	The employee must give notice in writing to the Company at least two (2) weeks prior to commencing the parental leave.
(e)	If an employee described in this Article are parents of the same child, the parental leave granted under Article 9,2 (b) may:
(1) be taken wholly by one of the employee, or
(ii) be shared by the employees.
The Company shall not be required to grant parental leave to more than one employee of the same child at the same time.
(f)	An employee who is granted the adoption leave of absence will be responsible for the full cost of continuing the Company Group Insurance package.
collect El benefits in the amounts for the time
and parental leave of absence as defined above.
(g) Eligible employee will be entitled to period as provided under the El Act.
9.3 Seniority shall accumulate on all maternity
12
ARTICLE 10
10 BEREAVEMENT LEAVE
10.1	Full-Time or Part-Time employees will be granted three (3) days bereavement leave from work with pay upon the death of a member of his/her immediate family. Immediate family is defined as spouse, parent, child, brother, sister or stepparents. All bereavement leave under this clause must be taken between the date of immediate family member's death and the second day after the funeral.
10.2	A Full-Time or Part-Time employee will be granted two (2) days bereavement leave from work with pay upon the death of other members of his/her family. Other members are defined as stepsister, stepbrother, mother-in-law, father-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, grandmother, grandfather, grandchild, common-law spouse or common-law child. All bereavement leave under this clause must be taken between the date of the other family member's death and the first day after the funeral.
10.3	It is understood that such employee must have been living common-law for a minimum of twelve (12) months prior to the death.
It is the responsibility of the employee to notify the Company, in writing, of the name and length of time of such relationship.
10.4	No payment shall be made for any part of the three (3) or two (2) days which fall on a scheduled day off, a paid Holiday or part of the employee's vacation.
10.5	Any extended leave of absence beyond those mentioned in Sections 10.1 and 10.2 will be at the discretion of the Company.
10.6	The Company may ask for proof of death by way of obituary notice or death certificate (re: relationship).
I	ARTICLE 11
TIME OFF FOR UNION BUSINESS
11.1	The Company agrees that up to two (2) employees shall be granted time off without pay in order to attend Union conventions and up to four (4) employees to participate in contract negotiations involving the Company, providing that a suitable replacement is available to do the employee's job(s).
11.2	When an employee is chosen to attend a Union convention or participate in contract negotiations, the Company agrees to pay the employee in foil for time lost, then bill the Union for such time.
13
ARTICLE 12
GENERAL LEAVE OF ABSENCE
12.1 All leaves of absence or time offwill be without pay. Requests for leave of absence or time off exceeding one (1) week (excluding pregnancy or bereavement leaves) shall be submitted to the Company in writing at least two (2) weeks in advance of the anticipated time of absence. The Company may in its discretion, refuse any request for leave of absence or time off
12.2	Failure to report for duty or an explanation by way of telegram or phone call to the Company, with an explanation satisfactory to the Company, within twenty-four (24) hours of the start of the first scheduled shift, following the expiry of such leave of absence or time off, shall be deemed to be a voluntary separation by the employee from his/her employment.
12.3	Employees with two (2) or more years of continuous service with the Company may request leave of absence in addition to their regular vacation. It is understood that the Company maintains the right to limit the number of employees granted such requests for leave. It is understood that all such leaves will be without pay. Any employee who is granted such leave will not be permitted to reapply until two (2) years have elapsed unless no other application has been made. If two (2) or more employees apply for such leave and seniority is equal the date of application shall prevail.
ARTICLE 13
JURY DUTY
13.0	An employee summoned to jury duty or subpoenaed as a witness shall be paid the difference between the amount paid for such Jury Duty service and the amount of basic wages they would normally have earned had they been scheduled to work on such days. Employees will call the Company to the effect that they can be scheduled for the next day.
ARTICLE 14
HEALTH AND WELFARE BENEFITS
14.1	1 Effective March 17, 2004, Group life Coverage Will consist of an amount of $3 5,000 Life
Coverage, plus $35,000 Accidental Death and Dismemberment coverage for Full-Time employees. A full-time employee is defined as working on a regular and continuous basis.
Group Life Coverage will consist of an amount of $10,000 Life Coverage, plus $10,000 Accidental Death and Dismemberment coverage for Part-Time employees.
- 14
2	Weekly Indemnity benefits of 70% of earnings to the Maximum established Employment Insurance, first day accident, 4th day sickness, 1st day surgery, 1st day hospitalization - benefits to cover twenty-six (26) weeks. Payment of benefits shall be subject to the acceptance of the claim by the Insurance Company.
An employee receiving sick pay will be deducted 10% for income tax purposes,
3	The above benefits to be paid 100% by the Company.
4	Alberta Blue Cross supplementary Health Care Plan with prescription drugs coverage of eighty percent (80%). The Company will pay one hundred percent (100%) of the premium cost for Full-Time employees.
For Part-Time employees, the Company will pay seventy-five percent (75%) and the employee will pay twenty-five percent (25%) of the premium.
5	Alberta Health Care Plan coverage. The Company will pay one hundred percent (100%) of premium cost for Full-Time employees.
For Part-Time employees, the Company will pay seventy-five percent, (75%) and the employee will pay twenty-five percent (25%) of the premium.
6	Full-Time employees shall be eligible to join the Group Insurance Plan following three (3) months of continuous service. Alberta Healthcare and Alberta Blue Cross shall become effective on the 1st day of the month following three (3) months of continuous service. Part-Time employees shall be eligible to join the plan after three (3) months of the date of ratification, providing they have three (3) months of continuous service.
7	The Company will provide a Dental Plan for Full-Time employees with one (1) year or more of service. The plan will pay eighty percent (80%) of basic dental care and eighty percent (80%) of major care. For Part-Time employees, the Plan will pay eighty percent (80%) of basic care to a maximum established by the policy. The premium for the FullTime and Part-Time employees only will be paid by the Company. For those employees electing dependency coverage, the Company will pay fifty percent (50%) of the premium for dependency coverage and the employee will pay the remaining fifty percent (50%).
8	The Alberta Dental Association (ADA) Fee Schedule will be effective the date of ratification or if not available, the current fee schedule as provided by the Carrier, as per current ADA survey in each year of the current Collective Agreement.
9	Effective the date of ratification, the Company will provide a vision care benefit for all Full-Time employees only and their dependants, to a maximum of one hundred dollars ($100) every two (2) years toward the purchase of eyeglasses and/or contact lenses. Dependent is as defined in the Group Policy.
15
10	Employees who become confined to home or in hospital due to serious illness or injury while on vacation, may file a claim for Weekly Indemnity Benefits and the balance of the employee’s vacation may be rescheduled upon approval of the claim by the Insurance Company providing there is a minimum of one (1) week left of the Employee’s vacation. If this is a reoccurring illness or injury, the employee will not be entitled to reschedule his or her vacation. Rescheduling of vacation shall not interfere with other employees who have already scheduled their vacation (no bumping)
14.2	In the event that an employee is injured on the job, he/she shall be paid for the balance of the scheduled shift in which the accident occurs.
14.3	In the event that injury requires the employee to be sent home or to the hospital, transportation shall be provided by the Company,
14.4	a) The parties of this Collective Agreement will cooperate in all matters pertaining to
Occupational Health and Safety.
b)	A joint Health and Safety Committee shall be established, composed of three (3) members of the Bargaining Unit, one from packaging, one from warehouse, and one from sanatarians and an equal number from management (if possible). Minutes shall be taken of all meetings with a copy posted, one in the warehouse, one in packaging and a copy sent to the Union Office.
c)	The Committee shall meet no less than four (4) times per year. Meetings shall be during working hours. Committee members not on shift at the time of the meeting shall attend on a voluntary basis and shall be paid for in accordance with the terms of the Collective Agreement. Additional meetings may be requested in case of an emergency.
d)	The Company shall provide material safety data sheets that identify all chemicals, compounds, substances used in the work place. Copies to be in the lunchrooms and first aid room.
e)	The Company shall provide the Safety Committee if requested the accident reports and other Health and Safety records provided they are not deemed to be confidential.
14.5	Retirement Savings Plan
The Company will contribute on behalf of all employees covered by this Agreement to a Group Retirement Saving Plan. Contribution will be remitted to the plan on a monthly basis for all hours paid including vacation, general holiday, jury duty, bereavement leave and Union leave (terminal hours and driving per log book).
Contribution to the plan will be separate from wages. Overtime rates will not be applied.
16
COMPANY CONTRIBUTIONS:
Effective March 21, 2004 Effective March 20, 2005 Effective March 19, 2006 Effective March 18, 2007
Contribution will be a total Contribution will be a total Contribution will be a total Contribution will be a total
of fifty (50) cents per hour of fifty-five (55) cents per hour of sixty (60) cents per hour of sixty-five (65) cents per hour
The Company will also administer, through the payroll, a deduction Group Retirement Saving Plan in conjunction with the above on a calendar year basis, and shall remain unchanged during the year except where no pay cheque is issued, and in such a case no deduction will be made. Such deductions will be remitted on a monthly basis with the above contributions.
Employees will be eligible to join the Retirement Saving Plan after they have completed their probationary period.
ARTICLE 15 DISCIPLINE
15.1	No employee shall be disciplined without proper cause.
15.2	Any employee alleging wrongful termination, suspension, or written reprimand may place his/her allegations before the Union, and if the Union considers that the objection of the employee has merit, the termination, suspension or written reprimand shall become a grievance, and be subject to the grievance procedure established by this Agreement. Terminations, suspensions and written reprimands shall be given in writing, with a copy to the Union.
Termination of casual and probationary employees is at the discretion of the Company and shall not be challenged by the Union or the employee and is not subject to the Grievance Procedure or Arbitration of the Collective Agreement.
15.3	An employee alleging wrongful termination may place his/her allegations before the Union, If the Company and the Union should determine that an employee has been terminated without proper cause such employee will be reinstated and shall receive pay for time lost following termination and prior to reinstatement, or such portion of such pay as the Company and the Union agree to. If unable to arrive at a satisfactory adjustment, then it shall be subject to the grievance procedure established by this Agreement.
15.4	After absence due to illness or injury, an employee will be returned to his or her job if capable of performing the work. Ifrequired by the Company, the employee wEL provide confirmation from his or her Doctor of his or her ability to return to work. For the health and safety of the employee, the Company may make the decision if the employee is capable of performing the work.
17
15.5	Grievances involving dismissals must be submitted to the Company in writing not later than fourteen (14) calendar days from the event giving rise to the grievance or the grievance shall be considered as waived by the aggrieved party.
15.6	All disciplinary meetings shall be held in private. A Shop Steward shall be present at all disciplinary meetings.
15.7	SHOP STEWARDS
The Company shall recognize all Union Shop Stewards for the purpose of representing the Union within the Plant, and shall restrict their activities to the handling of grievances and other legitimate Union business and shall be allowed a reasonable amount of time with pay during regular working hours. The Company may determine the reasonable time.
Stewards must ask their resource (Supervisor) for permission to leave their job to investigate and adjust grievances, and such permission shall be granted without unreasonable delay, providing a replacement is available. It is further agreed that this provision shall be limited to periods of regular pay.
15.8	ORIENTATION
The Company agrees to provide a Union representative or his/her designate, not less than ten (10) minutes but not more than thirty (30) minutes at a time mutually agreed upon, during the employee’s first week of employment as an orientation period for the familiarization of the employee with the general conditions and responsibilities with respect to the Collective Agreement. Such time will be with pay at their regular rate of pay.
ARTICLE 16 NOTICE
16.1	If the Company wishes to terminate the employment of an employee by Notice of Termination, the Company shall give the employee a written notice or pay in lieu of notice as per the Employment Standards Act as follows:
a]	One (1) week, if the employee has been employed by the Company for less than two (2) years.
b]	two (2) weeks, if the employee has been employed by the Company for two (2) years or more but less than four (4) years.
c]	four (4) weeks, if the employee has been employed for four (4) years or more but less than six (6) years.
18
d]	five (5) weeks, if the employee has been employed for six (6) years or more but less than eight (8) years.
e]	six (6) weeks, if the employee has been employed for eight (8) years or more but less than ten (10) years.
OR
f]	eight (8) weeks, if the employee has been employed for ten (10) years or more.
This individual notice does not apply to employees on probation or Casual employees.
16.2	It is understood and agreed that the Company shall not be obligated to give any notice or pay whatsoever to any employee terminated for proper cause, which shall include but not be limited to:
1]	Theft
2]	Dishonesty
3 ] Drunkenness; including drinking during working hours
4]	Being under the influence of Liquor or Drugs during working hours
5]	Bringing Intoxicants or Drugs into the Plant
6]	Disorderly conduct
7]	Punching the time clock card of another employee
8]	Insubordination
9]	Willful damage to property
10]	Disloyalty
16.3	In the event that new production techniques or machinery causes the elimination of jobs, the Company agrees to provide all employees affected with one (1) months notice of change or one (1) months pay in lieu of notice.
ARTICLE 17 GENERAL,
17.1	The Company agrees to provide space and allow the Union to supply and install a UFCW Bulletin Board for posting Union notices providing said notices are approved and initialed by the Company.
17.2	The Company agrees to furnish all special wearing apparel either approved as necessary by the Company or dictated by either the Occupational Health and Safety Branch or Alberta Department of Labor.
Effective the date of ratification, and each contract year thereafter, the Company agrees to pay, upon provision of proper receipts, up to $90 towards the purchase of safety shoes,
19
and/or $50 towards the purchase of safety rubber boots, for each employee who is required to wear the same. New employees will receive their allowance after completion of their probationary period.
17.3	Uniforms shall be worn by such employees as directed by the Company, and shall be provided by the employee. The Company agrees to pay two hundred and forty-seven dollars ($247) yearly to be paid out at four dollars and seventy-five cents ($4.75) weekly towards the purchase and laundering of these articles of clothing. The Company reserves the right to supply such uniforms in lieu of an allowance. Newly hired employees will be paid in proportion to the time worked during the 1st year of employment. The Company agrees to supply hairnets to the Employees.
17.4	When the Company requires an employee or applicant for employment to undergo a physical examination, doctor’s fees for examination shall be paid for by the Company, and shall be taken on the employee or applicant’s own time. If the Company requires a followup examination, such examination will be paid for by the Company up to a maximum of four (4) hours or balance of regular shift. All examinations paid for by the Company shall be performed by a physician of the Company’s choice.
17.5	Employee/Management meetings other than social meetings, whenever called by the Company shall be considered as time worked and compensated for as such.
17.6	An authorized Union representative may, upon notifying the Business Unit Leader or Shift resource, enter the plant provided that said representative shall not unduly occupy the time of employees during working hours, and agree to abide by all Company conduct and safety regulations while in the plant.
17.7	In the event an employee cannot perform all required duties within the classification, the “duty to accommodate” guidelines will apply.
17.8	Effective the date of ratification, and each contract year thereafter, the Company
agrees to pay, upon provision of proper receipts, up to $80 towards the purchase of tools for PMO/PO Level II, up to $120 for PMO/PO Level III, up to $80 for maintenance entry level/maintenance Level I, up to $120 for maintenance Level II and up to $160 for maintenance Level III,
17.9	The Company agrees to fully comply with Federal and Provincial election regulations, giving employees the required time off to vote.
20
ARTICLE 18
NO STRIKE, NO LOCKOUT
18.1	During the term of this Agreement the Company agrees that there shall be no lockout, and the
Union agrees that there will be no slowdown, walkout or strike until all provisions of this Agreement and other resources provided by law have been exhausted.
18.2	After once serving notice to the Company of the Local Union's intention to strike, no strike
shall take place for 72 hours to allow any product already started into the process of manufacture to be completed.
ARTICLE 19
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
19,1	In the event of any controversy concerning the meaning or application of any provision of this Agreement, there shall be no suspension of work but such controversy shall be treated as a grievance and shall be settled, if possible, by the employees and the Company in the following manner:
Step 1
The employee or employees concerned and/or their Chief Steward shall endeavour to adjust the matter with their resource. Failing satisfactory settlement at Step 1, then,
The matter shall be presented to the Business Unit Leader Failing satisfactory settlement at Step 2, then,
The Union Representative together with the Business Unit Leader and employee/or Shop Steward shall take grievance up.
19.2	Grievances with respect to matters of transfers, promotions, demotions, discipline or layoffs shall be presented to the Company in writing within thirty (30) days from the date of the transfer, promotion, demotion, discipline or layoff, but fourteen (14) days for termination. If the notice in writing is not given to the facts upon which the complaint is based, then it shall be deemed, waived and abandoned and shall not thereafter form the basis of a grievance between the parties thereto. This Article does not apply to probationary and casual employees.
21
ARTICLE 20 ARBITRATION
20.1	Any disagreement, grievance or dispute arising under this Agreement, which is not settled to the satisfaction of either the Union or the Company shall, upon written notice of either party, be submitted to an Arbitration Board provided the grievance involves the interpretation or alleged violation of any provision of this Agreement. The Arbitration shall be established within twenty (20) days of the last meeting with the Plant Manager and if notice is not given within the time limit of twenty (20) days then the grievance and the right to refer same to Arbitration shall be considered as having been waived and abandoned by the Union and the employee involved and it shall not thereafter form a basis of grievance or arbitration between the Union or an employee and the Company.
20.2	Upon the matter being referred to arbitration as above set forth an Arbitration Board shall be constituted in one of the following manners:
a]	If the parties agree in writing, the reference to arbitration shall mean reference to a single arbitrator; or
b]	If the parties do not agree as above set forth, then the reference shall be to an Arbitration Board composed of three (3) persons. The party requesting arbitration shall nominate a member to the Board at the time of making the request for arbitration. The other party shall nominate its member to the Board within fifteen (15) calendar days of the receipt of the request for Arbitration.
c]	The two (2) nominees so appointed shall select a person to be the third member and chairman of the board within ten (10) calendar days of the nomination of the last of them to said board. If said nominees are unable to agree upon a third member and chairman then either nominee may request within ten (10) days the said Minister of Labour to make such decision.
20.3	The Board of Arbitration, when duly constituted, shall meet and hear evidence and/or submissions from both parties and give a decision as soon as possible after completion of the hearings of evidence and/or submissions. The decisions shall be determined by a majority of the members of the Board and such decision shall be final and binding on the parties hereto.
20.4	The Board of Arbitration shall not have any authority or jurisdiction to alter or change any terms or provision(s) of this Agreement or to substitute any new provision(s) in lieu thereof, or give any decision contrary to the terms or provisions of this Agreement.
20.5	If a Board of Arbitration shall determine that an employee has been terminated without cause, it may award that such employee be reinstated and that he/she shall receive pay for time lost following termination and prior to reinstatement, or such portion of such pay as the Board feels is just under all the circumstances, less monies received by him/her from other employment during, the said period.
22
20.6
The Union and the Company shall pay fees and expenses of their respective nominees and the expenses of the Chairman shall be divided equally between the Company and the Union.
ARTICLE 21
SUCCESSORS AND ASSIGNS CLAUSE
This Agreement shall be binding upon the purchaser, lessee or transferee as provided in the Alberta Labour Code.
ARTICLE 22
DURATION OF AGREEMENT
The terms of this Agreement shall be from March 22nd, A.D. 2004 to March 16th, A.D, 2008 and shall continue in force after March 16th, A.D. 2008 on ayearly basis, which in each instance of renewal shall be regarded as the term of the Agreement, until terminated by either party giving the other party not more than sixty (60) days, and not less than thirty (30) days notice in writing prior to the expiration date. If amendments are contemplated by either party to become effective in the ensuing term the party proposing amendments shall give notice in Writing thereof to the other party not more than ninety (90) days and not less than sixty (60) days prior to March 16th, A.D. 2008, During the period of negotiations, this Agreement shall remain in force.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Union and the Company have caused this Agreement to be executed in their names by their duly authorized representatives at Calgary, Alberta, this d a y of , A.D. 2004.
UNITED FOOD & COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION
LOCAL 373A	OLD DUTCH FOODS LIMITED
23
SCHEDULE “A”
A shift premium shall be paid for all hours worked on the Afternoon Shift of sixty cents (600) per hour and on the Midnight Shift of sixty-five cents (650) per hour.
24
SCHEDULE "B"
B. 1	Transport drivers, for clarification means semi-drivers."
a]	The working day of a transport driver shall be governed by the Motor Vehicles Branch Act 1987 and the Alberta Labour Standards Act.
Ary driver who is in violation of the Motor Vehicles Act 1987 and the Alberta Labour Standards Act will be subject to immediate dismissal.
b]	Terminal work (including loading, unloading, waiting and preparation time) shall be a part of a driver's duties
c]	A transport driver who has not received his average of two (2) days rest per week and who is called in on his day off, shall receive one and one-half (1-1/2) times his regular rate of pay for a period of not less than four (4) hours.
B.2 In the event a permanent vacancy occurs in the Transport Department, the vacancy shall be posted for a period of ten (10) days. During this time, application for the vacancy may be made by transport drivers.
The Company shall give consideration to seniority, qualifications and ability. "Qualifications" as used in this Article shall include an employee'sjob skills. If no suitable applicants are received, the Company may hire a person to fill the vacancy.
The applicants or person selected for the vacancy will be on probation for up to three (3) calendar months.
The Company retains the sole right to decide whether the applicant or person qualifies for the vacancy and it shall not be subject to the grievance procedure or arbitration of this Agreement.
In the event a permanent vacancy occurs, as set forth in Section (B.2) and a transport driver is on vacation at the time, he shall have the privilege of applying, in writing, within five (5) days, after he has returned to work.
All runs will be assigned by the Company according to Driving Seniority and qualifications.
The Company may maintain yard drivers who have been elevated through the warehouse system. In the event a vacancy occurs the Company may consider application from the employee. The Company retains the sole right to make the decision if any applicant or employee be transferred into the transport department.
If such employee is transferred into the transport department and does not qualify during the probationary period he/she shall return to the prior job before the transfer.
25
Company seniority is for all employees, including semi-drivers, for vacation purposes.
B.3 a] In the event of a layover (breakdown, accident, bad weather, or other circumstances beyond control) the driver will be paid at the regular hourly rate for all such idle time up to the eighth hour from the time the run started. Pay for such idle time is limited to eight (8) hours in each twenty-four (24) hour period.
b]	In the event a layover is necessary, the Company will provide a hotel or motel room providing the driver first obtains permission from his resource. In the event a resource cannot be reached, the driver may use his own discretion in securing reasonable accommodations.
c]	In the event a layover is necessary the Company will reimburse the driver for up to three meals for each twenty-four (24) hour layover. A maximum of eight dollars and eighty cents ($8.80) per meal shall be paid as follows:
1st meal after four (4) hours layover 2nd meal after eight (8) hours layover 3rd meal after twelve (12) hours layover
The driver must submit receipts confirming payment of same.
The above rates are flat rates on which no overtime rate will be paid unless Driver exceeds thirteen (13) hours of driving time or sixteen (16) hours worked.
d]	Recognizing that there may be delays as a result of breakdown, accident, bad weather, or other circumstances beyond control, drivers will report all situations to the resource if there will be a delay of two (2) hours or more.
B.4 It shall be the responsibility of each driver to accurately record their own time for payroll purposes by the method provided by the Company (tachography, log books, etc.)
B, 5 Drivers shall be responsible for checking the ScheduleBoard or calling the Shift Resource to find out when and where their next tour of duty is scheduled.
B,6 Drivers must sign a consent form authorizing the Company to obtain their driver's abstract form from the Department of Motor Vehicles, at any time during their employment with the Company.
B.7 Company agrees to pay semi drivers five ($5.00) dollars for shower allowance for second night out.
26 -
SCHEDULE “B” (revised August 8th, 2004)
Effective Mar. 21/04 Mar.20/05	Mar.19/06 Mar. 18/07
Driver level 1	15,40
Driver level 2
16,25
16.95
17.65
T erminal work	18.19
Driver prairie 41.38
Driver mountain 43.31
18.19
42,88
44.81
SLEEPER TEAM RATE will be four cents (4«4) per mile over the applicable rate. [Sleeper team one half (1/2) each on applicable rate.]
The above rates are Flat Rates on which no overtime rate will be paid unless Driver exceeds thirteen (13) hours of driving time or sixteen (16) hours worked.
27