COLLECTIVE LABOUR AGREEMENT
between
Societe du Groupe d'Embouteillage Pepsi
(hereinafter referred to as the "Company")
AND
LOCAL 1999, TEAMSTERS, BREWERY, SOFT DRINK AND MISCELLANEOUS WORKERS UNION (hereinafter referred to as the "Union")
September 2009- August 2013
00643 (10)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ARTICLE
TITLE
PAGES
I.	. GENERAL PROVISIONS APPLICABLE TO ALL EMPLOYEES.
ARTICLE 1	PURPOSE..
ARTICLE 2	UNION RECOGNITION AND JURISDICTION.
ARTICLE 3	MANAGEMENT RIGHTS......................................................4
ARTICLE 4	UNION SECURITY.........................................................i
ARTICLE 5	UNION ACTIVITIES..................................................... 4,
ARTICLE 6	BULLETIN BOARDS.......................................................fy
ARTICLE 7	DISCRIMINATION........................................................fy
ARTICLE 8	STRIKES AND LOCKOUTS..................................................fy
ARTICLE 9	GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE...................................................7,
ARTICLE 10	ARBITRATION...........................................................4,
ARTICLE 11	DISCIPLINARY MEASURES ................................................?»
ARTICLE 12	SAFETY AND HEALTH......................................................&
ARTICLE 13	PAID HOLIDAYS.........................................................U,
ARTICLE 14	VACATIONS............................................................1?,
ARTICLE 15	SPECIAL LEAVE........................................................JJ,
ARTICLE 16	BENEFITS..............................................................IS
ARTICLE 17	GENERAL PROVISIONS...................................................IS,
ARTICLE 18	NOTICES...............................................................IS
ARTICLE 19	DURATION OF THE AGREEMENT.............................................IS
II.	- PROVISIONS APPLICABLE TO THE INSIDE GROUP
SENIORITY...........................................................2_S
PERSONNEL MOVEMENT...................................................Si
WORKWEEK AND WORKING HOURS..........................................24,
OVERTIME.............................................................2%
DAILY GUARANTEE AND WAITING PERIODS.................................22,
ARTICLE 20 ARTICLE 21 ARTICLE 22 ARTICLE 23 ARTICLE 24 ARTICLE 25 ARTICLE 26 ARTICLE 27 ARTICLE 28 ARTICLE 29 ARTICLE 30
REST PERIODS...............
UNIFORMS...................
SPECIAL PROVISIONS.........
TRANSFERS .................
PREMIUMS	...
SALARIES AND CLASSIFICATIONS
..s;
III.	- PROVISIONS APPLICABLE TO THE OUTSIDE GROUP
ARTICLE 40	SENIORITY	 22,
ARTICLE 41	PERSONNEL MOVEMENT................................................34,
ARTICLE 42	WORKWEEK AND WORKING	HOURS......................................  36,
ARTICLE 43	OVERTIME...........................................................3&
ARTICLE 44	DAILY GUARANTEE AND WAITING TIMES.................................41,
ARTICLE 45	REST PERIODS.......................................................IS
ARTICLE 46	UNIFORMS..........................................................42,
ARTICLE 47	SPECIAL PROVISIONS................................................43,
ARTICLE 48	TRANSFERS.........................................................44,
ARTICLE 49	PREMIUMS..........................................................44,
ARTICLE 50	SALARIES AND CLASSIFICATIONS......................................4$,
IV.	- PROVISIONS APPLICABLE TO TEMPORARY EMPLOYEES
ARTICLE 60	GENERAL...........................................................40.
ARTICLE 61	SENIORITY........................................................5_Q,
ARTICLE 62	WORKING DAYS AND HOURS............................................51,
ARTICLE 63	PAID HOLIDAYS ................................................... 6’,
ARTICLE 64	VACATION..........................................................52,
ARTICLE 65	SALARIES..........................................................22,
APPENDIX “1”
APPENDIX A
2
I. -GENERAL PROVISIONS APPLICABLE TO ALL EMPLOYEES
ARTICLE 1 -PURPOSE
The purpose of this collective agreement is to promote good relations between the Company and its employees and to provide means of settling any grievance which may arise between the parties in a conciliatory way
■Pay
Unless stated otherwise, the word day means Calendar Day
.Union
The persons who.
1.	are married and cohabit;
2.	cohabit and are the fathers and mothers of the same child;
3.	cohabit since more than one (1) year.
ARTICLE 2 - UNION RECOGNITION AND JURISDICTION
The Company recognizes the Union as the bargaining agent for all the employees of the Company, in conformity with the bargaining certificate issued by the Quebec Department of Labour, file M-3635-17, which was subsequently amended and which describes the bargaining unit as follows:
"All employees as defined by the Labour Code, with the exception of office employees, foremen, assistant foreman, road managers, dispatchers and the employees of the Concentrate Division"
of Pepsi Bottling Group (Canada) for its establishment located at:
3650 and 3700 Thimens Blvd St-Laurent (Quebec)
Should the operations performed in or from the above mentioned establishment be transferred to other establishments of the Company in the Montreal area, the parties agree to take the appropriate measures to amend the bargaining certificate and the collective agreement accordingly.
The employees so represented by the Union constitute the bargaining unit and the provisions of this agreement apply only to the employees of the said bargaining unit.
2.02	The Company shall provide at all times a sufficient number of workers for all operations in every department. All employees must perform a fair day's work.
2.03	Normally, persons excluded from the bargaining unit shall not perform the work usually performed by the employees of the bargaining unit, except in the following cases:
a)	experimental research work or employee training;
b)	when regular employees are not available because of lateness or unforeseen absences; in such cases, the Company shall replace the employee or employees absent from the Inside Group within the shortest possible time if the resources are available and can be reached; in the case of an employee absent from the Outside Group, the Company shall try to replace him/her within the shortest possible time.
2.04	In the case of improvement, cleaning or painting of an establishment, the work shall be offered to the employees of the said establishment who have been laid off provided it does not require the use of specialized equipment and the employees are qualified to perform the work. This general cleaning of an establishment shall normally be accomplished during periods when employees are on lay-off. Should this clause be applied, the parties shall meet to discuss same.
2.05	If the Company acquires another company or merges in whole or in part with another company and it results in an increase of the production or of the service territory and a transfer of the employees, the Company
2.01 a)
b)
1.01
1.02
1.03
3
agrees to meet with the Union beforehand to discuss the impact of such a transaction on the employees concerned.
Failing an agreement, the issue may be referred to a sole arbitrator chosen by both parties or, if there is no agreement as to the choice of the arbitrator, by the Minister of Labour.
ARTICLE 3 - MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
3	01 The Company will have sole and exclusive rights with respect to any aspect of the management of its
operations and its employees except in the specific cases where such rights are abrogated by this agreement.
3.02	Clause 3.01 notwithstanding, the Company agrees to meet once a month with the employees who are members of the bargaining committee, or more frequently if both parties agree thereto, and provided that each party has submitted an agenda to the other at least one (1) week in advance, in order to discuss different questions of common interest.
ARTICLE 4 ■ UNION SECURITY
4	01 Any employee currently covered by this agreement must, as a condition of retaining his/her employment,
become and remain a member in good standing of the Union for the entire duration of this present collective agreement.
4.02	Every employee who is hired after the date of signing of this agreement and who is covered thereby most become a member of the Union as soon as his/her probationary period is completed and must remain a member of the Union for the remaining duration of the agreement.
4.03	At the time of hire, the Company will ensure employees sign the Union cards and will return the signed cards bv mail in preaddressed envelopes provided by the Union
The Company will make delayed contribution certified by the Union as of the first pay of the employee as well as initiation tees when applicable before the fifteenth (15th) day of the month following dhe month during which the said deductions have been made to the financial secretary of the Union, together with a statement of the amounts collected and the names of those from whom the said amounts have been collected with their respective social security numbers and the amount paid by each employee.
4 04 The Company shall deduct from an employee's pay the initiation fees certified by the Union as soon as the said employee has completed his/her probationary period. The remittance of the said initiation fees shall be made in accordance with the provisions of paragraph4.03.
4.05	The authorization to deduct the Union initiation fees shall be given on the form entitled "Authorization to deduct Union Initiation Fees" attached to this as "Appendix 1". The Company shall furnish the said forms, which must be signed in triplicate by the employee, before a representative of the Company, at the time and place designated by the Company.
4.06	The amounts paid to the Union as initiation fees and union dues shall appear on the T4 and "Releve 1" slips.
4.07	The Company shall remit to the Union at its business office, and to the local Union committee once (1) a year, on September 1st, the employees' changes of address, the names of all the employees, their addresses, postal codes, ages, social security numbers and telephone numbers.
4.08	The Company must remit on request on a quarterly basis a report to the Union indicating the employees who have been hired or dismissed, the names of the temporary employees who have been inscribed on the list mentioned in clause 61.09, the number of hours worked by agency personnel as well as their full-time employee equivalent.
ARTICLE 5 - UNION ACTIVITIES
5.01	No Union activities (except as specifically authorized by this agreement) or any activity which would in any way whatsoever prevent an employee from adequately performing his/her duties during his/her working hours will be permitted on the Company's premises.
4
5.02
5.03
5.04
5.05
A.	UNION RELEASE WITHOUT PAY/OUTSIDE GROUP
Upon written request formulated by a business agent of the Union at least one (1) week in advance, such request not to be unduly refused, the Company shall grant leaves without pay to a maximum of four (4) employees, that is the four (4) directors from the St. Laurent establishment, one (1) of whom is a technician. There will also be one (1) directorfor each additional permanent establishment.
B.	UNION REALEASE WITHOUT PAY/ INSIDE GROUP
Upon written request formulated by a business agent of the Union at least one (1) week in advance, such request not to be unduly refused, the Company shall grant leaves without pay to a maximum of four (4) employees, that is the four (4) directors from the St. Laurent establishment, one (1) of whom is a skilled trades employee. There will also be one (1) directorfor each additional permanent establishment.
C.	CHIEF UNION REPRESENTATIVES
Upon written request formulated by a business agent of the Union at least one (1) week in advance, such request not to be unduly refused, the Company shall grant leaves without pay to the chief Union representative for the Outside Group or to the chief Union representativefor the Inside Group
a)	An employee who is absent on a leave as defined in clause 5 02 shall continue to accumulate his/her seniority and shall retain his/her classification.
b)	The Company shall make the necessary arrangements so that the said employee may continue to benefit from the Company's and the Government's welfare plans, except in the case of an indefinite leave.
a)	When an employee is on leave without pay by reason of Union activities, the Company shall continue to pay him/her his/her regularwages, making all necessary deductions, except in the case of an indefinite leave. Each month, the Company shall be reimbursed by the Union all amounts it has thus paid.
b)	Furthermore, the Company holds itself free of any liability, which might arise with respect to the application of measures such as deductions, payments, fringe benefits, benefits, etc
c)	An employee on indefinite leave shall advise the Company of his/her return one (1) month in advance.
A NEGOCIATION f OUTSIDE GROUP
Leaves of absence shall be granted to a maximum of four (4) employees to represent the Union, that is the four (4) directors from the St Laurent establishment, during the negotiation of the collective agreement and during any conciliation meetings These employees shall receive their regular rate of pay for the time spent at these meetings with the Company during regular working hours on the Company premises or at any other place of its choice in the Montreal area
B.	NEGOCIATION I INSIDE GROUP
Leaves of absence shall be granted to a maximum of four (4) employees to represent the Union, that is the four (4) directors from the St. Laurent establishment during the negotiation of the collective agreement and during any conciliation meetings. These employees shall be paid at their regular wage rate for the time spent at these meetings with the Company during regular working hours on the Company premises or at any other place of its choice in the Montreal area.
C.	CHIEF UNION REPRESENTATIVE
Leaves of absence shall be granted to the chief Union representative for the Outside Group and to the chief Union representative for the Inside Group during the negotiation of the collective agreement and during any conciliation meetings. These representatives shall receive their regular wage rate for the time spent at these meetings with the Company during regular working hours on the Company premises or at any other place of its choice in the Montreal area.
5
D.	RENEWAL OF THE COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
Moreover, a leave of absence, with pay as aforesaid, shall be granted to the persons mentioned in the present article, up to a maximum of two (2) days each, to prepare the negotiations for the renewal of the present collective agreement
5.06	A permanent officer of Local 1999 shall be authorized at all times to enter the work premises in order to investigate or to discuss with the members during their meal period or rest period, or to participate in any meeting between the Company and the Union
5.07	A. UNION RELEASE WITH PAY I OUTSIDE GROUP
Upon the written request of a business agent of the Union, made at least two (2) working days in advance, the Company shall grant to a maximum of four (4) Union directors, during working hours and without loss of normal'wages, a leave allowing them to perform Union activities directly concerning the Company and its employees, The said directors shall be entitled, for such leaves, to a maximum of four (4) working days per year each.
B. UNION RELEASE WITH PAY/ INSIDEGROUP
Upon the written request of a business agent of the Union, made at least two (2) working days in advance, the Company shall grant to a maximum of four (4) Union directors, during working hours and without loss of normal wages, a leave allowing them to perform Union activities directly concerning the Company and its employees. The said directors shall each be entitled, for such leaves, to a maximum of four (4) working days per year each.
5	08 Upon the written request of a business agent of the Union at least two (2) working days in advance, the
Company shall grant to the chief Union representative from the Outside Group and the Chief Union representative from the Inside Group, during working hours and without loss of regular wages, a leave allowing him/her to perform Union activities directly concerning the Company and its employees. The said chief Union representatives shall each be entitled, for such leaves, to a maximum of twelve (12) working days per year each.
The Union shall indicate to the Company the names of its directors and its chief Union representatives in writing for both the Outside Group and the Inside Group. The Company shall not recognize any employee as such unless it has received a notice to that effect from the Union.
5.10 FONDS DE SOLIDARITY
Upon the written request of a business agent of the Union, made at least one (1) week in advance, such-* request not to be unduly refused, the Company shall grant a leave without pay for a maximum period of three (3) months per year to a local officer of the Fonds de Solidarity des Travailleurs du Quebec.
ARTICLE 6 - BULLETIN BOARDS
6	01 The Company shall provide the Union with exclusive locked bulletin boards in each establishment where
members of the Union are working so that Union meeting notices and other official notices of the Union may be announced Before posting such notices. a copy of same shall be remitted to the director of personnel for his/her approval The Company agrees to remit upon request to the Union a copy of any notice it posts on its bulletin boards
ARTICLE 7 ■ DISCRIMINATION
7	01 a) No discrimination. Intimidation or coercion shall be exerted against one or more employees
because of their Union allegiance or because of their activities as Union directors or chief Union representatives
b) The Company, the Union and the employees agree to respect The Charter of Rights and Freedoms in implementing and administering this Collective Agreement An excerpt of certain relevant provisions of the said Charter is reproduced in Appendix "A"
ARTICLE 8 -STRIKES AND LOCKOUTS
6
8	01 The Company, on one part, and the Union or any one of its members on the other part undertake that no strike, lockout, work slow-down, reduction or stoppage of operations, restriction or any other interference in the operations will take place during the term of this collective agreement
8	02 In the event that an employee in the performance of his/her duties refuses to cross a picket line legally established by the employees of the Company in another bargaining unit or if he/she refuses to cross a picket line established by the employees of a client of the Company at a location where the employees are on strike or refuses to load, unload or deliver products of the Company to another business in the bottling or distribution industry which is on strike in the Province of Quebec, such action shall not be interpreted as a violation of the collective agreement and shall not be a cause for disciplinary action
ARTICLE 9 -GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
9.01	This collective agreement recognizes three (3) types of grievances:
“A” Individual Grievance
When a grievance concerns only one (1) employee. In such case, the employee must himself/herself sign his/her own grievance. However, if the employee is unable to sign the grievance within the time limit stipulated in clause 9.02, a Union director may sign the grievance in his/her name.
“B” Collective Grievance
Where two (2) employees or more (including all the employees) have a grievance of the same nature to submit and/or when the grievance affects two (2) employees or more.
T“C” Union grievance
Where the grievance directly concerns the Union and the Company A Union Grievance must be signed by a Union director.
T
9.02	First step
Any employee who believes that he/she has been treated unfairly must discuss the situation with the supervisor concerned, accompanied by a director before submitting the grievance in accordance with the procedure hereinafter defined.
Second step
Failing a settlement with the manager concerned, any employee who believes that he/she has been treated unfairly may submit his/her grievance in writing duly signed by himself/herself for investigation and consideration within the fifteen (15) .plays which follow the incident to the manager concerned or, if he/she is absent, to his/her immediate superior. The employee shall be accompanied by a director The director of personnel or his/her representative, accompanied by the manager concerned and, if necessary, the supervisor concerned, must meet with the grievance committee, the employee concerned and, if necessary, the business agent of the Union to discuss the grievance within fifteen L151 piays following receipt of the written grievance. He/she shall render hisfher decision in writing withinpeven (7)plays following this meeting.
Arbitration:
For the application purposes of Article 10, any grievance mentioned in clause 10.01 should be presented for arbitration within the fifteen (15) working days following the decision of the director of personnel or the failure to answer within the required time.
9.03	The time periods indicated above, from the second step and once the grievance has been submitted, may be extended by mutual written agreement between the Company and the Union.
9.04	The directors and chief Union representatives in question must be employees cf the Company.
A. OUTSIDE GROUP
There shall not be more than four (4) directors for the Outside Group
n
INSIDE GROUP
B,
There shall not be more than four (4) directors for the Inside Group
C.	CHIEF UNION REPRESENTATIVE
There shall be one (1) chief Union representative for the Outside Group and one (1) chief Union representative for the Inside Group.
D The Union will be able to name managers and/or chief representatives substitutes who will be in office during the absence of these
9	05 The Union shall communicate in writing to the Company the names of its directors and chief representatives. The Company shall not recognize any employee as such if it has not received a notice to that effect from the Union. If a director must leave his/her work to perform his/her duties, he/she must first obtain permission from his/her immediate superior, who shall not refuse this permission unless there is a serious reason, and a replacement shall be provided when needed.
9	06 A. GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE / OUTSIDE GROUP
The Union grievance committee for the Outside Group shall comprise at most the following two (2) persons
the chief Union representative.
the director of the establishment concerned
B. GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE / INSIDE GROUP
The Union grievance committee for the Inside Group shall comprise at most the following two (2) persons
the chief Union representative,
the director of the establishment concerned
ARTICLE 10 ■ ARBITRATION
10	01 All grievances which involve a violation or restriction of this agreement and which have not been settled in a
satisfactory manner by the means provided for in the different steps of clause 9.02 must be dealt with in accordance with the procedure established by the Quebec Labour Code.
10	02 The decision of the sole arbitrator chosen by both parties or named in accordance with the Labour Code shall be rendered within his/her jurisdiction and shall be considered final and executory by all parties concerned, but in no circumstances shall the sole arbitrator have the power to alter, change or otherwise modify any part cf this agreement.
10 03 Each party shall share equally the fees and expenses of the arbitrator
10 04 In the case of dismissal or suspension of an employee, the sole arbitrator shall have the privilege of ordering the reinstatement or modification cf the sanction, after having evaluated the facts. He will also have the privilege of determining the compensatory wages and/or seniority, taking into account, however, the earnings and other benefits the employee would have received in the meantime.
10 05 Following a mutual written agreement, the parties may decide that a grievance shall be presented before a tribunal in lieu of a sole arbitrator.
10	06 No grievance or writing made in virtue of this article may be considered null or set aside because of a defect
in the form or a drafting irregularity, provided it has been made within the time periods prescribed in this article
ARTICLE 11 - DISCIPLINARY MEASURES
11	01 Any disciplinary measure (written notice suspension or dismissal) taken by the Company against an
employee who has completed his/her probationary period is subject to the grievance and arbitration procedure provided for in this agreement
8
11.02	Any employee who believes that he/she has been unjustly disciplined by virtue of clause 11 01 must so inform in writing the Company and the Union within fifteen (15) calendar days and the case shall be treated from then on as a grievance in accordance with clause 9 02, the second step of the grievance procedure
11.03 a)
b)
c)
No employee shall be disciplined other than in the presence of the chief representative and a Union director or, in their absence, of a Union director, unless both are not immediately available If a disciplinary measure is given without the presence of a union representative and that it was possible to do so. the said measure will not be valid
In the case of a ve_rbal warning that could conceivably lead to disciplinary action because of the serious or repetitive nature of the incident in question, a Union director will normally be invited to the meeting
An employee being questioned by a third party hired by the Company concerning an incident that could possibly lead to disciplinary action, due to the seriousness or repetitiveness of the incident under investigation. .will be made in the presence of a Union director, unless this one refuses it.
11.04	Except in the case of a serious offence, the Company agrees not to dismiss or suspend an employee without giving him/her a prior notice in writing, with a copy to the Union
11.05	When the Company initiates disciplinary measures against an employee it shall establish in writing the reasons for which the employee must be disciplined and a copy of the written report shall be given to the employee concerned, his/her chief Union representativeand the Union office
11.06	No disciplinary notice shall be given to an employee more than fifteen (15)^days following the discovery of the infraction by the Company, except if this time period has been extended after agreement between the Company and the Union, or if the employee is absent from work at the time when the Company wishes to
give him/her the disciplinary notice This delay will then be extended the same number of working days of absence
11.07	In the case of disciplinary measures against an employee who has just started in a new function, his/her lack of experience shall be taken into consideration if the disciplinary measure is related to the quality or quantity of this work
11.08	a) Except in cases where an immediate suspension is necessary, there will be a period of at least,
seven 071 .days between the notice and the application of any suspension
b) The suspension must begin within ten (10) days of the suspension notice, or if the employee is not currently working, within ten (10) days of his/her return to work The suspension dates mentioned in the notice shall not be modified except by agreement betweenthe Company and the Union
11.09	Any notice appearing in an employees file, which dates back more than six (6) months shall be automatically annulled Any suspension appearing in the employee's file which dates back more than nine (9) months shall be automatically annulled
11.10	Should the driver's permit or licence of an employee be temporarily annulled, suspended or subjected to restrictions because of an incident which has occurred outside working hours which does not involve a Company vehicle and which is not caused by the physical condition of the employee, and if the permit or licence is necessaryto the latter for his/her work, there may be a temporary transferor another arrangement by mutual written agreement between the parties This provision does not apply to repeat offences under the Highway Code or the Criminal Code
All employees must immediately notify the Company if their driver's permit or licence has been annulled suspended or subjected to restrictions
ARTICLE 12 - SAFETY AND HEALTH
12	01 a) The Company and the Union shall cooperate as closely as possible in order to prevent accidents and to put into effect the safest working methods, and to maintain a safety committee The employees or the Union may use the grievance procedure should a decision of the Company be proven unsatisfactory
9
b) In the case where an employee must work in conditions which he/she judges to be unsafe, he/she must promptly inform his/her immediate superior of the situation If both parties cannot agree, a health and safety Union representative may request the presence of the immediate superior and a director to settle the matter In the meantime, the employee may be assigned to another task until the parties have met
12 02 f safety committee shall be set up and be composed of three (3) Union representatives and three (3)< management representatives for the o itside group and of three <31 Union representatives and three (3)
- a icerr en; rep ese M ’ /es for the inside group /or the St Laurent establishmentand, if necessary, of one Union representative and one management representativefor each additional establishment
TThese committees shall meet once (1) a month or more often, if both parties agree
I
JRAINING
The Company agrees to devote at least three of the above-mentioned meetings each year to the purposes of health and safety training; moreover, the parties agree to establish, by mutual consent, the most appropriate training courses.
12 03 first Aid Kits.
.first-aid kits shall be placed at all necessary locations within the establishmentsand jn each truck.
.12 04 The time spent at safety committee meetings by employees representing the union wm nui email any loss ui regular salary for each such employee.
12 05 a) At each of the meetings, the committees shall adopt the minutes of their previous meeting. The minutes so adopted shall be kept by the Company for a period of at least five (5) years.
b) The committee memberswill receive a copy of the minutesof their committee meeting.
12 06 Every employee who must be absent to go to the hospital following an accident will not sustain any loss of salary for the day of the accident. If necessary, transportation to and from the hospital shall be provided or paid for by the Company.
12.07	The Company will take the measures necessary to ensure the safety and well-being of its employees and, for this purpose, will exhibit diligence at all representations of the health and safety committee in order to remedy the situation.
12 08 Any individual protection equipment adopted and chosen by the health and safety committee will be supplied free of charge by the Company; the wearing of such equipment is compulsory for the employees concerned.
12 09 a) When a medical examination is required by the Company for a work related accident or an occupational disease, the worker shall receive his/her full salary if the medical examination takes place during his/her regular working hours. If the worker has to pay the physician fees for such an examination, the Company shall reimburse the worker for the cost of the said feespn presentation of acceptable vouchers.
b) The worker may have access at all times to his/her medical file and obtain a copy of the results of the medical examinations requested by the Company.
12.10	A worker who is a victim of an occupational accident or illness due to his/her work may be assigned to light tasks. The said light tasks shall be assigned to him/her in priority, and his/her work schedule shall be the same as at the time of his/her occupational injury or accident, or based on his/her choice of team according to clause 22.02 if his/her seniority so permits.
10
ARTICLE 13 - PAID HOLIDAYS
13.01 a)
c)
13.02
a)
b)
c)
The Company wishes to protect the employees against loss of salary on the thirteen (13) recognized statutory holidays. Consequently, the Company shall pay its employees the amounts mentioned in this article for each of the said thirteen (13) statutory holidays listed below:
NewYear's Day January 2nd Floating holiday'
Easter Day or Easter Monday
Victoria Day
Saint-Jean-Baptiste Day
Canada Day
Labour Day
Thanksgiving
Christmas Eve
Christmas Day
Boxing Day
December31st
*the floating holiday shall be taken on a date agreed upon by the employee and his/her immediate superior, outside of the high-volume period identified in clause 13.01 c)
Should the Government declare a statutory holiday during the term of this Agreement, which holiday is not mentioned above and which must be generally observed in the Province of Quebec, the said holiday shall then be observed and be paid by the Company in accordance with the same terms and conditions.
Additional needs on the Saturdays before Christmas and New Year's Day
The Company reserves the right to schedule the number of employees required to work on the Saturday before Christmas and on the Saturday before New Year's Day. The present provision shall not apply if, among the five (5) calendar days before December25 or January 1, as the case may be, there are at least three (3) regular workdays, that is from Monday to Friday inclusive, on which work is in fact done.
This extra work shall be offered on a voluntary basis to the employees of the function concerned. If the Company is unable to find a sufficient number of volunteers among the said employees, it shall assign by reverse order of seniority in the function concerned the required number of employees to perform the work.
With respect to employees for whom either of these Saturdays thus worked is normally a weekly day off, this day off shall be postponed to a date following New Year's Day that is agreed to betweenthe employee and his/her immediate supervisor.
The said postponed days off may be consecutive or non-consecutive, and must not fall within peak periods, namely, the period starting on the second (2nd) Monday of June and ending on Labour Day, as well as the month of December.
In accordance with this article, the hours worked by an employee on the Saturday before Christmas and/or New Year's Day shall be paid at the regular rate for the day off postponed to after New Year's Day, as mentioned here above
The benefits granted in this article are subject to the following conditions:
The employee must be available on the jday, according to his/her regular work schedule, immediately preceding and immediately following the holiday in question, except in the case of an authorized absence of less than three (3) months; if requested, the employee shall justify his/her absence with appropriate proof.
The employee must have completed thirty (30) regular working days with the Company
If one of these holidays is a Saturday or a Sunday, the employees whose workweek is from Monday to Friday shall receive one (1) day off instead; and the Union and the Company shall meet to decide which day it shall be. However, if Christmas Eve falls on a Saturday or Sunday, the
11
holiday shall be observed on the first working day that follows January 2nd unless the parties agree to another date.
d}_______Without restricting articles 13 01 c) and 14 06, when a statutory holiday occurs during a day that
was no: scheduled, the Company will grant a day of leave to the wane earner the next normally scheduled day which follows the statutory holiday This granted leave will not be treated as a statutory holiday.
13 03 A.
OUTSIDE GROUP
Statutory holidays on which no work is performed shall be paid as follows:
01/09/09	01/09/10	01/09/11
1- Service Plus Delivery 282 50 $	286 50 S	290.50 S
Man f10 hours!	-----'—*	-------- ------------'—*
2_ Service Plus Delivery
226 00 S
286 50 S
229,20 S
S
01/09/12
295 50 S
236.40 S
Man <8 heures)
3 Ail other employees of :he Outside Group shall receive ho iday pay equivalent to the wage paid for one 111 regular workday, including applicable shift premiums, according to the schedule
B. INSIDE GROUP
As payment for the above-mentioned statutory holidays, the employees shall receive holiday pay equal to the salary of one (1) regular workday, including applicable shift premiums, according to the schedule
13	04 However a laid off employee who receives employment insurance payments, or an employee who is absent due to illness or an accident and who receives payments from the CSST or insurance payments, is only entitled to the difference between such payments and the remuneration provided for in clause 13 03
ARTICLE 14 -VACATIONS
Inside Group
For the choice of vacation periods general seniority shall prevail among employees holding the same position in the inside group
Outside Group
For the choice of vacation periods general seniority shall prevail among employees of the outside group with the exception of the Repair Department and Technical However general seniority shall prevail with respect to the employees of the Repair and Technical Department
The vacation period shall begin on Monday at 12 01 am and end on Sunday at 11 59 pm or according to the regular schedule of the employee concerned, if it begins before 11 59 p m
Employees are obligated to take, as scheduled, the vacation to which they are entitled, including the weeks mentioned in clause 14 11
14	02 Year of reference
For the purposes of calculating the vacations to which the employees are entitled, the year shall start on May 1st of the preceding year and end on April 30th of the current year, the same rule applies to the calculation of vacation pay
14 03 The employees who, on April 30th of each year, have less than one (1) year of continuous service with the Company are entitled to one (1) vacation day for each complete month of continuous service, the total duration of the said vacations not to exceed e qhty (80) hours
14 04 Vacations shall be granted to the employees and must be taken between May 1st and April 30th of the year following the reference year mentioned in clause 14 02 according to the following table
14 01 a)
b)
c)
d)
12
JLensth of uninterrupted service on April 30tli	Dav-off and paid vacation
	
Less than a (' M vear	/l) dav of vacation for every complete month of
	uninterrupted service without the complete lemtih
	of aforementioned vacation exceedine jjiahlv (80)
	hours - 4%
More than a (1) vear	Two (2 i weeks - 4 %
	
More than five (5) vears	Three (3) weeks - 6 %
	
More than ten (10) vears	Four (4 ) weeks - 8 %
More than (20) vears	Five (5} weeks - 10 %
	
More than thritv (30) vears	Six (6) weeks 12 %
14 05 A. OUTSIDE GROUP
a)	Employees paid on a weekly, daily or hourly basis are entitled, for each vacation week due to them by virtue of this article, to one (1) week of regular weekly wages for each vacation week or the equivalent of two percent (2%) of their total earnings acceptable for vacation payout between May 1s and April 30th of the year preceding the date entitling them to vacations, whichever is higher If an employee is absent for one hundred and eighty ftfiOt ^jays or more, the percentage basis shall apply
b)	In accordance with this article, employees who are paid a base salary plus commissions are entitled to receive as vacation pay two percent (2%) of the base salary and commissions earned during the reference year for each week of vacation If an employee is absent for less than one hundred and twenty (120) workdays, he/she shall be entitled, for each week of vacation, to the weekly average of his/her earnings for each full week of work during the reference year or to the above-mentioned percentage, whicheveris higher
B.	INSIDE GROUP
For each vacation week to which an employee is entitled by virtue of paragraph 14 04 above he/she shall receive the equivalent of two percent (2%) of his/her total earnings accepiauie for vacation payout during the period between May 1st and April 30th of the year preceding the date entitling him/her to a vacation or one (1) week of pay at his/her regular hourly wage rate, whichever is higher If an employee is absent for one hundred and .eighty (150) .days or more, the percentage basis shall apply
E Jf an employee goes on holiday, he will as vacation indemnity, the eguivalentof his regular wage, according to the normal cycle of pay unless he does not have the right to this sum bv virtue of the clause 14 05
If. according to clause 14 05. an employee, has the right to a higher vacation indemnity, than his regular wage he will receive the, difference in a lump sum payment less applicable deductions in his account during the month of JVlav of every year
14 06 If a statutory holiday, for which holiday pay must be paid in accordance with Article 13, occurs during the vacation period of an employee, that employee shall be entitled to the said remuneration in addition to the vacation pay payable to him/her in accordance with the above provisions, but not to an extra day off
14 07 In preparing the vacation schedule of the employees, which shall be posted at the latest on April 15th, preference for the choice of vacation dates shall be given in accordance with the provisions of clause 14 01 provided that, in the reasonable opinion of the Company, this does not impair the efficient and normal operations of the Company The Company will allow up to thirty-eight (38) employees of the Outside Group except the Repair and Technical Department per week to go on vacation at the same time The Company will allow up to .three (3) employees of the Repair and Technical Department per week to go on vacation at the same time
13
However, for weeks 35 and 36 of the periodical calendar, the Company will allowup to thirty (30) employees* of the outside group, with the exception of the Repair and Technical department to go on holiday at the same time
Furthermore during the two (?) weeks of Soring Break in February and March, as well as the two (2) weeks cl Construction Week, the Company will allow up to forty (401 employees of the outside group, with the exception of the Repair and Technical department, to go on holiday at the same time
14.08	a) An employee entitled to more than three (3) weeks of vacation may take a maximum of three (3) weeks of vacation between the second Monday of June and Labour Day of each year. An employee entitled to three (3) or two (2) weeks vacation may take a maximum of two (2) weeks of vacation between the second Monday of June and Labour Day of each year. These weeks of vacation may be consecutive depending on the employee's choice.
b) Subject to the restrictions of clause 14.07, the employees can take in one shot all the annual vacation to which they are entitled during the following periods: from October 15th to the end of November and from January 1sl to the end of April of each year.
14 09 If an employee becomes sick or has an accident or is on maternity leave before the beginning of his/her vacation (that is on the first working day of his/her vacation) and is sick or injured for one (l)week or more, he/she may ask for the postponement of his/her vacation. In such a case, the Company may request a medical certificate.
14 10 If, after April 30th, an employee, upon the anniversary date of his/her employment with the Company, becomes entitled to one (1) additional vacation week, he/she may take this week at a date agreed upon between the employee and the Company within twelve (12) months following the date of the anniversary, but not during the summer period (2nd Monday of June to Labour Day) and the last three weeks ot December.
14 11 In recognition of long-term service with the Company, any employee who reaches twenty-five (25), thirty (30). thirty-five (35), forty (40) or forty-five (45) years of continuous service at his/her anniversary date of his/her employment with the Company, as the case may be, shall be granted for that twenty-fifth (25th), thirtieth (30th), thirty-fifth (35th), fortieth (40th) or forty-fifth (45th) year only, as the case may be, a vacation of two (2) weeks with pay at the rate of four percent (4%) of his/her total earnings acceptable for vacation payout between May 1st and April 30th of the year preceding the date entitling him/her to vacations. He may take this vacations at a date agreed upon between the employee and the Company within Jorty eight L48) months following the date of the anniversary, but not during the summer period (2nd Monday of June to Labour Day) and the month of December.. This leave can be spread out over two C2> non-consecutivevears
14 12 If, when choosing his/her vacation dates as provided for in clause 14.07, the Company refuses an employee's vacation request, in accordance with clause 14.08, during the preferred period, that is from the first full week of July to the third full week of August inclusive, and if a week during the said period becomes available thereafter, the Company will offer this week to that employee in accordance with the rules provided
for in clause 14.01
Furthermore, it when choosing his/her vacation dates as provided for in clause 14 07, the Company refuses an employee's vacation request, in accordance with clause 14.08, during the summer period (the 2nd Sunday of June to Labour Day, but excluding the period provided for in the first paragraph) or during the week of the winter school break, and if a week during the said period then becomes available thereafter, the Company shall offer this week to that employees in accordance with the rules provided for in clause 14.01.
.14 13 .To establish the minimum calendar of vacation of the, inside group .for thesummer period (2nd Monday of June until Labor Davl the Company will use following formula by function
.1 ne r umber of permanent employees working (excluding employees on Long Term Disability), multiplied by three (3) divided by twelve (12) weeks This total will be applicable every week during thesummer period,
14
ARTICLE 15 - SPECIAL LEAVE
15.01	BEREAVEMENT AND BIRTH LEAVE
The Company shall grant a leave of absence without loss of pay or pay and commissions in order to give an employee the opportunity to look after and attend the funeral in the following cases:
a)	Five (5) calendar days with pay in the case of the death of the spouse or the child;
b)	Three (3) calendar days with pay for those days scheduled to work in the case of the death of the father, mother, brother, sister, mother-in-law, father-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, daughter-in-law, son-in-law or grandchild of the employee;
c)	One (1) calendar day with pay on the death of a grandmotheror grandfather.
15.02	The leaves of absence granted in clauses 15.01 b) and c) must be taken in the eight (8)days following the death.
However, an employee may substitute one of the days to which he/she is entitled under clause 15 01 in order to be present at the autopsy, burial or cremation.
15.03	Clause 15.01 only applies to employees having completed their probationary period
15.04	If it is necessary for the employee to be absent for a period exceeding the limit mentioned above, the latter shall submit to the Company the reasons for which he/she requires a prolonged leave without pay, and such reasons shall be taken into consideration by the Company according to the circumstances.
If a death identified in clause 15.01 occurs during an employee's period of annual vacation (or during a statutory holiday), this employee shall be granted an equivalent number of consecutive days of leave of absence on a date agreed upon by him/her and his/her immediate superior, with consideration for operational needs.
Birth
An employee may be absent from work for a period of five (5) days for the birth of his/her child or the* adoption of a child The first two (2) days of absence are paid
Upon the employee's request, his/her leave of absence may be broken up in days, but cannot be taken after the expiration of the fifteen (15) days following the arrival of the child at the home of the father or the mother
15.06	An employee may be absent from work without loss of pay on the day of his/her marriage
An employee may also be absent from work without pay on the day of the marriage of one of his/her children, his/her father, his/her mother, his/her brother, his/her sister or his/her spouse s child
This employee must notifv.the CompanMof such absence at least one week in advance
15.07	An employee may be absent from work during ten (10) days per year, without pay to fulfill his/her
obligations towards the care,	health and education of his/her child or that of his/her spouse, or due to the
health of his/her spouse, father, mother, brother, sister or one of his/her grandparents
Those days of absence may be taken separately If the employer agrees, one day may also be broken up in parts _,The employee must notify the Company of his/her absence as soon as possible and use whatever reasonable means available to limit the taking and the length of the absence
15.08	Any employee called on jury	duty or subpoenaed as a Crown witness or defence witness in a criminal
matter, before the CSST in	cases contested by the Company, or before the "Regie de I'assurance
automobile" in cases involving the Company's vehicles, by subpoena, in accordance with the law, shall receive eight (8) hours or ten (10) hours of pay at his/her regular hourly wage rate for each day on which he/she would normally work but on which he/she will act as a potential juror, juror or Crown or defence witness in a criminal matter, before the CSST or the Regie de I'assurance automobile with subpoena provided he/she remits to the Company the amounts allocated for these functions Any employee called on jury duty or subpoenaed as a witness as aforesaid must give the Company a declaration to that effect and must report to work on each day or half day when his/her presence is not required in Court The Company
shall retain any amount due to the employee if the latter does not report for work in accordance with the provisions of this article
Clause 44 03 applies to employees having a base salary and commission
ARTICLE 16- BENEFITS
A.	SICKNESS DAYS
16.01 a)
b)
c)
Beginning January31st, 2004, all regular employees who have completed one (1) or more years of continuous service with the Company on January 31st of each year shall be entitled to and receive, for absences due to illness during the following year (i.e. up to January 30th of the following year), a payment for up to fifty-six (56) hours of absence for employees working on a five- (5) day, eight- (8) hour schedule. (This payment will be for up to sixty (60) hours of absence due to illness for employees working on a four- (4) day, ten- (10) hour schedule.) For each day of absence, this payment is equal to one hundred percent (100%) of the remuneration provided for in clause 13.03. This allocation and payment shall be reduced by one half (1/2) day for each full calendar month of absence.
Beginning January 31st, 2004, the pay credit for illness which a regular employee who has not completed a full year of continuous service with the Company on January 31st is entitled to and receives for each day of absence due to illness, shall be determined on the basis of a credit of one-half (%) day for each month of continuous service. This payment is equal to one hundred percent (100%)ofthe remuneration provided for in clause 13.03.
For the period from August 31s1, 2003 to January 31s1, 2004, the provisions of clause 16.01 of the preceding collective agreement shall apply on a pro rata basis, that is, employees on a five- (5) day, eight- (8) hour schedule are entitled to payment for up to twenty (20) hours of absence due to illness, while employees working on a four- (4) day, ten- (10) hour schedule are entitled to payment for up to 20.83 hours of absence due to illness. For each day of absence, this payment is equal to one hundred percent (100%) of the remuneration provided for in clause 13.03. This allocation and payment shall be reduced by one half (Yz) day for each full calendar month of absence between August 31s', 2003 and January 31st, 2004.
If at the time of signing of the present collective agreement, an employee has already received payment for more hours of absence due to illness to which he/she is entitled according to the above, the number of hours to which he/she is entitled in the year 2004-2005 shall be reduced accordingly.
If, however, on January 31s1, 2004, the employee has used fewer hours of illness than those to which he/she is entitled during the period from August 31st, 2003 to January 31st, 2004, he/she is entitled to the payment of the credit for the unused hours of illness during the month of Februa 2004 at the rate of remuneration established in clause 13.03 applicable to him/her on August 31 2003.
16.02	Starting in February 2005, and during the month of February of each year, each employee is entitled to the payment of the credit for the unused days of illness up to a maximum of seven (7) days or six (6) days per year (that is, from January 31st to January 30) as the case may be, at the rate of remuneration established in clause 13.03 applicable to him/her on the preceding January 31st.
16	03 al ,An employee who on January 31st of each year has an unused credit of forty (40) hours or more is* entitled to a leave of absence of one complete workweek provided he/she has not been absent from January 31st of the preceding year to January 30lh of the current year for any reason other than:
1	a bona fide illness,
2. a leave paid in whole or in part to which the employee is entitled by virtue of any other article of this agreement or of any other plan to which the Company contributes (e g. group insurance plan, the Act Respecting Occupational Health and Safety, employment insurance, government pension plan, etc.);
16
an unpaid leave by reason of bereavement as provided for in clause 15 04 of this agreement or because of the closing of the plant by reason of an Act of God
This leave of absence must be taken between February 15th and April 30th or between September. 15th and November 1st, during a period mutually agreed upon between the employee concerned and the Company
Any employee who is injured at work and has to go to the hospital and who, as a result of the said injury, must return to the hospital, shall receive his/her hourly rate for all regular working hours legitimately lost for this reason, in the case of an employee who is remunerated on a commission basis, he/she will receive the average of his/her commissions for the current week, the same rule applies for the delivery helper if he/she does not complete his/her day of work
The above provisions apply only to injuries not covered by the Occupational Health and Safety Act
The deliveryman or the delivery helper who cannot finish his/her work day because of an injury to his/her co-workers, shall receive his/her salary rate for all regular working hours legitimately lost for this reason
B.	GROUP INSURANCE
Wage indemnities are 70 % of the salary on the basis of 1-4 52 weeks, with a weekly S710 maximum as of January 1th, 2010, S720 as of January 1th. 2011, S730 as of January 1th 2012 and S750 as of January 1th 2013.
Major medical is payable at 100% with $10 or $20 deductible The deductible is $10 per individual and $20 per family The plan includes an annual maximum of $400 for visits to allied health personnel (including chiropractors, acupuncturists and massage therapists upon medical prescription) at a rate of $40 pervisit, and a maximumof $100 for X-ray expenses
Life insurance
-• for the employee 32 000 $ as of September 1th 2009 $42 000 as of Sentemher 1th. 2010 $52 000 as of September 1th 2012
•	for the spouse 5 000 $
•	for each child 2 500 $
4	The dental insurance plan as agreed between the parties
5	Employees who accept early retirement shall be entitled to the benefits provided for in paragraphs 2, 3 and 4 of the present clause until retirement age, insofar as they pay all of the premiums in accordance with the conditions laid down by the Company
6	Eye tests $35 per twenty-four-(24) month period
16 Ofi The Company shall pay seventy-five per cent (75%) of the premium for the short-term wage indemnity one hundred per cent (100%) of the premium for major medical and one hundred per cent (100%) of the premium for life insurance, and one hundred per cent (100%) of the premium for the dental insurance plan The employees shall pay one hundred per cent (100%) of the long-term wage indemnity
16 0£ In consideration of the provisions of this article, the parties agree that the Company mav keep all the rebates, which may be granted by the Employment Insurance Commission
16 04 In the case where a sick or injured employee is entitled to receive wage loss insurance payments or payments from the CSST, as the case may be, if these payments are not received by the employee within the first ten (10)work days following the date on which he/she made his/her written claim pursuant to the illness or accident, the Company, upon request from the employee and signing of the appropriate forms, shall advance to him/her on a weekly basis the equivalent of the payment to which he/she is entitled When wage loss insurance payments or payments from the CSST are received, as the case may be, the employees shall undertake to reimburse the Company immediately
C.	PENSION PLAN AND GROUP REGISTERED RETIREMENT SAVINGS PLAN (RRSP)
16 09. a) The Company shall undertake to maintain its defined contribution pension plan in effect The Company's contributions on behalf of employees shall be 100% of the employee's contribution
16 05, 1
2
3
16 04 a)
b)
i n
b)
c)
d)
Joiningthis plan shall be mandatoryfor employees hired after September 1SI, 1988. Each employee participating in the pension plan shall receive a report once a year indicating the sums that he/she has remitted and those that the Company has remitted.
Any employee who participates in the Pension Plan provided for in clause 16.0!| a) may also participate in the Company's group RRSP.
Starting on January 1st. 201_Q, any employee who is already contributing the maximum amount to the Company Pension Plan (4% and 5%) and who also decides to participate in the group RRSP will benefit from a Company contribution to the group RRSP equal to 100% of his/her contribution to the group RRSP during the year, up to a maximum Company contribution equal to 2.5% of the regular salary earned by the employee during the calendar year. As of January 2011, the maximum Comnanv contribution will be increased to 3 0% of the regular salary earned bv the employee during the calendarvear
However, the employee's and the Company's contributions must be made in accordance with the rules of the group RRSP and applicable legislation. Furthermore,the amounts thus accumulated in the group RRSP may not be withdrawn except in accordance with the rules concerning the withdrawal of contributions made to the Pension Plan provided for in clause 16.09^a).
In order to ensure better communication with employees concerning the pension plan and the group RRSP, a committee consisting of two (2) representatives from the Company, two (2) employees representing the Inside Group and two (2) employees representing the Outside Group shall be formed. The committee shall meet at least twice (2) a year to study the pension plan and the group RRSP and to provide the employees with information pertaining thereto. Time spent on the committee shall entail no loss of regular salary.
Furthermore, in the three (3) months following the signing of the collective agreement, the Company shall organize information meetings with employees concerning the pension plan and the group RRSP.
If an employee receives wage loss disability benefits from the CSST, the Company and the employee will maintain their respective contributions during the period provided for in the Act respecting industrial accidents and occupational diseases. Likewise, when an employee receives short-term disability insurance benefits, the Company and the employee shall maintain their respective contributions to the pension plan. In all cases, the employee must remit his/her contributions to the Company in advance by post-dated cheques.
| 16 10 Leave without pay.
Any employee who for reasonable grounds wishes to obtain a leave without pay for a minimum period of one (1) month and a maximum period of twelve (12) months, must make his/her request in writing at least thirty days in advance. The Company shall decide whether to grant or refuse the request based on relevant circumstances, but may not arbitrarily refuse the request. It is understood that, if granted, the leave may not be used to hold another job nor cause harm to the business. During the leave, the employee will continue to accumulate his/her seniority.
ARTICLE 17 -GENERAL PROVISIONS
17	01 No particular agreement between the Company and the employees covered by this agreement with respect to remuneration and working conditions shall be valid unless it has been accepted in writing by the Union
17 02 The recreational association shall continue to benefit from the deduction for those members who have authorized it
17.03	Routes and equipment
In the event of a modification to the equipment or the machinery, or a significant change to a function, the Company must, in cooperation with the Union, take the appropriate measures to allow the employees the time to qualify following such modifications, after a training period as provided for in clause 21.06 or 41.06.
18
Bank Deposit
The Company pays its employees through direct bank deposit, with the amount of the pay having to be deposited no later than Thursday morning in the employee's account
Payment of salaries
Salaries are paid by the Company every second (2nd) Thursday
If an employee leaves on vacation, he/she will receive as vacation pay the equivalent of his/her regular salary, according to the normal pay cycle, unless he/she is not entitled to this amount under clause 14 05
If, according to clause 14 05, an employee is entitled to a vacation pay exceeding the amount of his/her regular salary, he/she will receive the difference as a lump sum, less the applicable deductions, by means of bank transfer during the month of May of each year
Outside Group
The pay stubs must show the amounts paid on the commissions and the base pay
Any pay error on the employee's regular pay of more than one hundred dollars ($100) wil automatically be corrected and will be deposited in the employees bank account at the latest or the following week foff-cvclel
17	05 If the Company decides to create a new position, which is covered by the accreditation certificate, it agrees
to meet with representatives of the Union to negotiate the salary and applicable monetary conditions In the absence of an agreement, the grievance and arbitration procedure applies
ARTICLE 18- NOTICES
18	01 For the purpose of communication between the parties hereto, the exact address of the parties shall be as
follows
The Union
Local 1999, Teamsters, Brewery, Stft Drinkand Miscellaneous Workers Union 9393 Edison street Suite 100
Ville d'Anjou, Quebec H1J1T4
The Company
Pepsi-Bottling Group (Canada)
3700 Thimens Boulevard St Laurent, Quebec H4R 1T8
ARTICLE 19 - DURATION OF THE AGREEMENT
This Collective Agreement shall be in effect fromthe date of its signing upto August 31st, 20.13
However, the time worked by employees between September 1, 2006 and the date of signing of this Collective Agreement shall be paid as if articles 30, 50 and 65 were in effect during that period
Any retroactivity shall apply only to employees who were still in the Company s employment on the date cf signing of this Collective Agreement
During the month of January 2010 the Company shall pay to each regular employee employed on ■November 8lh. 200^ and to each temporary employee having completed his/her probationary period on .November 8th. 20Q2, a lump sum of Jwo hundred dollars ($2P0), less applicable deductions, provided that the employee is still employed by the Company on the date of payment
Insofar as the applicable legislation allows, and if the employee so requests in writing before .November 27. 200?^ the Company will pay the lump sum of .two hundred dollars ($2P0), without deductions, to the group RRSP provided for in clause 16 OJ^b) of this Collective Agreement
1901
19 02
a)
b)
c)
d)
19
Jl. -PROVISIONS APPLICABLE TO THE INSIDE GROUP ARTICLE 20 - SENIORITY
20 01
20 02
20.03
20.04
A probationary employee is an employee who has not completed his/her probationary period as provided for in clause 20 02 or 61 02 A probationary employee has no rights by virtue of the seniority provisions of this agreement and may be dismissed by the Company; such a dismissal is not subject to the grievance and arbitration procedure.
Any new employee must work for a probationary period of nine-hundred and sixty (960) hours effectively worked (including all probation hours in virtue of clause 61.02) in a vacant regularjob, during which period he/she acquires no seniority rights. The seniority of employees who have completed their probationary period shall be established retroactively to the date on which they started to work following their last hiring or the date on which they were transferred into the bargaining unit.
General seniority shall be calculated in years, months, weeks and days of continuous service with the Company from the date the employee started to work following his/her last hiring by the Company or the date on which he/she was transferred into the bargaining unit.
There shall be, for the employees covered by this agreement, within the inside group, the following types of seniority:
a)	General seniority, meaning the period of regular employment with the Company from the last hiring date.
b)	Departmental seniority, meaning general seniority as applied among employees of the same department. Within the group mentioned below, the departments and the functions in each department are as follows:
INSIDE GROUP
Departments
1.	Production
2.	Warehouse	D.L.C.
Sanitation maintenance-Warehouse attendants
3	Garage	Gasoline pump attendants
Mechanic and body worker helpers Mechanics and body workers Storekeepers Lift-truck mechanics
4.	Boilers	Fixed-machine mechanics
Functions
Production attendants
Lift-truck operators
"Premix" filling machine attendants
CO2 filling machine attendants
Housekeeping attendants
Stacking machine attendants
Bulk unstacking machine attendants
Labelling machine attendants
Cartoning-filling machine attendants
Raw-materialsinspection (RMI) attendants
Syrup makers
Laboratory technicians
5. Maintenance (Machinery and buildings)
6.
Building maintenance attendants Lubricators
Machinery maintenance mechanics Storekeepers Electronics specialist Electricians
20
Sterilization
Sterilization and specialized cleaning attendants
20.05	General seniority shall continue to accumulate as long as it is not lost in accordance with the provisions of this agreement.
20.06	There shall be loss of seniority or of continuity of service in the following cases: dismissal for cause;
resignation or other interruption of service by voluntary action of the employee;
lay-off of more than twelve (12) consecutive months if the employee has less than one (1) year of seniority and for a lay-off of more than twenty-four (24) consecutive months if the employee has one (1) year or more of seniority;
failure to respond within three (3) work days to a notice of recall made by the Company by telephone, by registered letter or by telegram to the last address given by the employee to the Company. The secretary or the section's Union director shall be notified accordingly;
absence due to personal illness or accident other than work-related accident, with medical proof, for a period of more than twelve (12) consecutive months if the employee has less than one (1) year of seniority and for a continuous period of twenty-four (24) months if the employee has one (1) year and less than three (3) years of seniority and for thirty-six (36) months if the employee has three (3) years of seniority or more.
20.07	The Company establishes every three (3) months (January, April, July and October) the seniority lists of the employees who have completed their probationary period. Copies of these lists are posted on the bulletin board and are sent to the Union's business office, in duplicate, and to the local Union's office during January, April, July and October of each year.
20.08	Beginning on the date of signing of this Collective Agreement, if two (2) or more new employees have the same seniority date, a draw shall be held in the presence of a Union director and a Company representative to determine who has the greater seniority at the time they become regular employees. This provision does not affect the seniority rank of employees who acquired seniority rights before the signing of this Collective Agreement.
20.09	A. DIRECTORS
Notwithstanding the provisions of this Agreement, but provided there is at least one Union director per work shift, it is understood that any such Union director, subject to a maximum of four (4), including the director of the trade association, cannot be laid off or removed from his/her shift because of a lack of work, as long as there is work available in his/her own wage category or in another function according to his/her flexibility. It is understood that, when exercising such privilege, the said employee may displace an employee having more seniority. The Union shall send a list to the Company, in order of function on the Union executives, of the employees covered by this sub-paragraph.
B.	CHIEF UNION REPRESENTATIVE
Notwithstanding the provisions of this Agreement, it is understood that the employee who is the chief Union representative for the Inside Group cannot be laid off because of a lack of work as long as there is work available in his/her own wage category or in anotherfunction according to his/her flexibility. It is understood that, when exercising such privilege, such an employee may displace an employee having more seniority. The Union shall send to the Company the name of the employees covered by this sub-paragraph.
C.	SHIFT FORMATION
In the choice of shift, subject to the provisions mentioned in clause 22.01 h), the chief Union representative shall be considered to be the most seniorwithin his/her own group.
20.10	No promotions to jobs outside the bargaining unit are covered by the provisions of this agreement and the employee thus promoted is entitled to a trial period of six (6) months. At any time before the expiration of the said period of six (6) months, the employee thus promoted who wishes to return to his/her former job is entitled to do so upon giving a one-(l) week notice to the Company and he/she shall then return to his/her former job without losing any of the benefits provided for in this agreement. The same rules apply if the Company wishes to return him/her to his/her former job, except for the necessity of the one-(1) week notice.
a)
b)
c)
d)
e)
21
After this period of six (6) months, he/she loses all seniority in his/her group and he/she can only return to the unit with the consent and on the conditions established by the parties.
20.11	a) There shall normally be no permanent transfer from the outside to the inside group and vice-versa.
However, any employee who wishes to make such a transfer may submit a written request to this effect to the personnel department with a copy to the Union, and there may then be permanent transfers by mutual agreement in writing between the parties. An employee so transferred will retain his/her full seniority and will accumulate it for purposes of vacation (Article 14) and benefits (Article 16) only. For all other purposes, including the choice of vacation, his/her seniority will begin to run as of the date of his/her transfer.
b)	The same rule applies to the employee who, having exercised the right provided in the preceding paragraph, returns to his/her former group: except for purposes of vacations (Article 14) and benefits (Article 16), his/her seniority will begin to run as of the date of his/her return to his/her former group.
20.12	Upon the written request of the employee, he/she may be transferred from one group to another group in the event of temporary layoff on condition that jobs are available or filled by temporary employees in the other group and that the employee is qualified to do the available work.
The employee thus scheduled in the other group the day before the transfer may not return to his/her group the next morning even if the layoff is cancelled the next morning because of a work surplus.
However, if the employee, because of his/her seniority, is scheduled to work in the other group only during the afternoon of the next day, the said employee thus scheduled may report in the morning in order to find out whether there is work in his/her group If such is the case, he/she may remain in his/her group that morning without being obligated to change groups in the afternoon.
The employee shall return to his/her former job without loss of seniority when work resumes in his/her group. ARTICLE 21 - PERSONNEL MOVEMENT
A.	PROMOTIONS - DEMOTIONS - TRANSFERS
21.01	As soon as a permanent position becomes vacant, the Company must post same in all its establishments for five (5) working days, specifying the normal qualifications required to perform the work and satisfy the normal requirements of the position. Copy of the said notice, including a summary description of the tasks required, shall be given to the Union.
21.02	Any employee wishing to apply for the posted position must sign his/her name on the notice form mentioned in the preceding clause during the aforesaid posting period. Absent employees who wish to be considered as candidates in the event of the posting of certain positions must make a written request to the personnel office. For positions of equal or lower salary, employees may exercise their right to apply only once in a six (6) calendar month period
21	03 At the expiry of the posting period, the Company shall choose from among the employees who have applied for the position as provided for above as long as they have the qualificationsto perform the said function and to satisfy the normal requirements of the said position. Should the qualifications of two (2) or more employees be equal, preference shall go to general seniority. The position must normally be tilled within the ten (10) working days following the end of the posting period.
21.04	Any employee who has applied for a position and feels that he/she has been treated unfairly by the choice of the Company may file a grievance in accordance with the rules established by this agreement.
21.05	a)	For the purpose of the application of this article, a position shall not be considered vacant if the
employee filling it is absent for any of the reasons of absence provided for or authorized by this agreement.
b) When an employee holding a position returns from his/her absence, the replacement employee who occupied the position during his/her absence shall return to his/her former position.
21 06 Any employee promoted to a vacant position is entitled to a trial period determined by the Company of a minimum duration of forty (40) hours and a maximum duration of three hundred and twenty (320) hours. When a position is posted, the Company shall meet, following the end of the posting period, with the selected candidates in order to explain to them the specific expectations and requirements with respect to
22
the posted position. Moreover, after a minimum period of forty (40) hours following the start of the trial period, the employee must pass (minimum pass mark of 70%) an aptitude and knowledge test relating to the subject studied during the trial period to enable him/her to continue the said trial period. During this period, either at the request of the Company or at his/her own request, the employee may return to his/her former position without losing any of the benefits provided for in this agreement As long as the employee is on his/her trial period, the Company shall not assign him or her to other tasks, notwithstanding the other clauses of this Collective Agreement.
21.07	In the event that an employee, for reasons accepted by the parties, wishes to be transferred to another function, he/she shall apply to the Company in writing for the transfer; his/her position shall then be posted and filed in accordance with the provisions of this agreement, and this procedure shall be followed for all subsequent vacant positions. Such an employee may apply for any position so posted.
21.08	For health reasons or personal reasons accepted by both parties, an employee may request a job transfer or shifttransferwithin his/her department.
When agreeing to such a transfer, the Company shall respect the principle of seniority within his/her department and shall take into account the competence of the individual to fill the job and the employee concerned shall receive the regular rate of the position to which he/she is transferred.
21.09	The parties agree, for the purpose of applying this article, that an employee may temporarily be assigned to the posted function as long as it has not been filled in accordance with the provisions of this article. In such a case, the employee who has the most seniority in the department and establishment concerned and who is the most immediately qualified to perform the work shall be assigned to the position.
B.	LAY-OFF OR TRANSFER
21.10	a) In the event that, through lack of work, there have to be layoffs, the temporary employees in the department concerned shall be laid off first. Subsequently, layoffs are made according to the general seniority list in the department concerned, the youngest member of the department being laid off first. In such a case, transfers within department are made by order of seniority; it is agreed that the employees concerned will be able to exercise their right of transfer only for duties that they are capable of performing.
b)	Regular employees and those on probation whose services are essential to the efficient operations of the Company, because of the nature of their trade and who are part of the Maintenance and the Garage Departments, shall not necessarily be subject to layoffs because of the application of the lay-off procedure. However, they may still become subject to layoffs for lack of work.
c)	An employee thus laid off in a department is entitled to bump the temporary or most junior employee of his/her group, as long as he/she can perform the work after a training period of (5) working days.
21.11	Before proceeding with a lay-off, the Company shall notify the chief Union representative or his/her replacement at the latest on the eve of such a lay-off.
In the event of circumstances beyond its control, the Company shall undertake to notify the chief Union representative as soon as possible.
21.12	Employees shall receive their termination of employment slips within the ten (10) working days following their lay-off.
21.13	Should one or more positions or functions be abolished within the Inside Group or in the case of jobs being permanently transferred from one establishment to another, the employees affected shall be those who have the least general seniority. Notwithstanding any other inconsistent provision of this agreement, they may use their general seniority to switch to any other function within their group, as long as they have the required general seniority and the qualifications normally required to fill the function and satisfy the normal requirements of the position after the training period provided for in clause 21.06.
C.	RECALL
21.14	When operations return to normal, employees who were displaced or laid off are recalled to the work they usually perform; the recalls are made in the reverse order of the layoffs. Recalls are made in the presence of Union director provided one is present on the premises at the time of the recall.
23
ARTICLE 22 -WORKWEEK AND WORKING HOURS
22.01	a) b)
22.02	a)
b)
c)
d)
e)
f)
g)
h)
The Company shall endeavour to establish work shifts and schedules which are suitable both to itself and the employees. The regular workweek shall consist of five (5) consecutive working days of eight (8) hours each or of four (4) consecutive working days often (10) hours each.
Existing work schedules or work schedules already agreed to by the parties may be modified with the consent of the parties.
The Company agrees to post six (6) times a year, that is from January 15 to January 30, from March 15 to March 30, from May 15 to May 30, from July 15 to July 30, from September 15 to September 30 and from November 15 to November30, a list on which employees shall indicate their choice of shift in order of priority as well as their preference for the workday starting time of a given shift. These choices shall become effective on the second Monday of the month following the end of the posting
Insofar as there are qualified and competent employees to maintain the efficiency required by the Company on each shift, the Company shall give, on a departmental basis, preference to the most senior employees for their choice of shift, in accordance with their indicated priority.
For this purpose, the Company shall post, on Wednesday of each week, normally not later than midday barring circumstances beyond the Company's control, a draft schedule assigning employees to the shift of their choice according to their seniority, and as far as possible, to their normaljob.
Any employee who wishes to have an error corrected in the schedule which concerns him/her must inform the Company by 10:00 a m. on Thursday. If the local Union wishes to have an error in the schedule corrected, it must inform the Company within the same time frame.
The final schedule shall be posted on Thursday of each week, usually no later than noon, and there shall be no change in the allocation of duties and shifts during a given workweek, barring circumstances beyond the Company's control However, if the draft schedule is not posted on Wednesday as provided for in paragraph c) of the present clause, the local Union may request a deadline extension provided for in the present paragraph.
The Company agrees to make no change to the work schedule during the week in which it is in force, unless it is obligated to do so for reasons beyond its control.
Any employee absent for work for any reason whatsoever at the time of the work schedule posting has the responsibility to find out his/her work schedule for the following week. However, if the schedule is posted after noon (12:00 pm), and an employee has left work after noon (12:00 pm) and before the posting of said schedule, the Company shall inform the employee cf his/her work schedule for the following week.
A copy of the final work schedule shall be given to the local Union
22.03	Production Department
For production department employees, with the exception of those working on the night shift, the normal workweek shall be five (5) consecutive days of eight (8) hours each Monday through Friday, or four (4) consecutive or non-consecutivedays of ten (10) hours each from Monday to Sunday, including at least one (1) day off for each employee on Saturday or Sunday
For production department employees working on the night shift. the normal workweek shall be five (5) consecutive days of eight (8) hours each Monday through Friday or Sunday through Thursday
22	04 Warehouse department
For warehouse department employees working on the day shift, with the exception of the sanitation maintenance attendants the regular workweek shall be five (5) consecutive days of eight (8) hours each Monday through Friday, or four (4) consecutive days often (10) hours each Wednesday through Saturday, or Sunday through Wednesday
24
22.05
22.06
22.07
22.08
For warehouse department sanitation maintenance attendants working on the day shift, the regular workweek shall be five (5) consecutive working days of eight (8) hours each Monday through Friday.
For warehouse department employees working on the evening shift, the regular workweek shall be five (5) consecutive days of eight (8) hours each Monday through Friday.
For warehouse department employees working on the night shift, the regular workweek shall commence on Sunday evening and consist of five (5) consecutive days of eight (8) hours each or of four (4) consecutive days of ten (10) hours each Tuesday through Friday.
Garage department
For garage department employees working on the day shift, the regular workweek shall be five (5) consecutive days of eight (8) hours each Monday through Friday, or four (4) consecutive days of ten (10) hours each Wednesday through Saturday, or Sunday through Wednesday.
For garage department employees working on the evening shift, the regular workweek shall be five (5) consecutive days of eight (8) hours each Monday through Friday.
For garage department employees working on the night shift, the regular workweek shall commence on Sunday evening and consist of five (5) consecutive days of eight (8) hours each.
Boiler Department
For boiler department employees who hold fixed-machine mechanic positions, with the exception of employees working on the night shift, the regular workweek shall be five (5) consecutive days of eight (8) hours each Monday through Friday.
For boiler department employees who hold stationary engineer positions working on the night shift, the regular workweek shall be five (5) consecutive days of eight (8) hours each Monday through Friday or Sunday through Thursday.
a)	Machinery maintenance mechanics
For day shift employees in the machinery maintenance mechanic function, the regular workweek shall be five (5) consecutive days of eight (8) hours each Monday through Friday, or four (4) consecutive days of ten (10) hours each Sunday through Wednesday, or Wednesday through Saturday.
For evening shift employees in the machinery maintenance mechanic function, the regular workweek shall be either five (5) consecutive days of eight (8) hours each Monday through Friday, or four (4) consecutive days of ten (10) hours each Sunday through Wednesday, or Wednesday through Saturday.
For night shift employees in the machinery maintenance mechanic function, the regular workweek shall be five (5) consecutive days of eight (8) hours each Monday through Friday or Sunday through Thursday.
b)	Buildings maintenance attendants
For buildings maintenance attendants working on the day shift, the regular workweek shall be five (5) consecutive days of eight (8) hours each Monday through Friday.
c)	Storekeepers, electronic specialists and electricians
For storekeepers, electronic specialists and electricians working on the day, evening and night shifts, the regular workweek shall be five (5) consecutive days of eight (8) hours each Monday through Friday.
Sterilization Department
For sterilization and specialized cleaning attendants working on the day shift, the regular workweek shall be five (5) consecutive days of eight (8) hours each Monday through Friday.
For sterilization and specialized cleaning attendants working on the night shift, the regular workweek shall be either five (5) consecutive days of eight (8) hours each commencing on Sunday or Monday evening, or four (4) consecutive days of ten (10) hours each commencing on Sunday or Wednesday evening.
ARTICLE 23-OVERTIME
23.01 a)
b)
c)
d)
e)
23 02 a)
b)
Without permitting a joint refusal by employees of a same function, from an individual standpoint, overtime will be done on a voluntary basis unless the Company is unable to find among the other qualified employees the personnel required to perform the work.
Overtime shall first be offered equitably and by rotation within the same week according to seniority to the employees scheduled to the function at their commencement of the shift. A refusal on the part of an employee shall be considered to be time accumulated for purposes of equitable overtime allotment.
Secondly, overtime shall be offered to the employees of the department and shift concerned who are capable of performing the required work according to their order of seniority by rotation within the same week. Overtime worked in another job shall be considered to be time accumulated for purposes of equitable overtime allotment.
Thirdly, overtime shall be offered to the employees of the group and shift concerned who are capable of performing the required work according to their order of seniority by rotation within the same week. Overtime worked in another job shall be considered to be time accumulated for purposes of equitable overtime allotment.
In the event that the Company still needs additional employees, it may use temporary employees.
For employees working on a five- (5) consecutive day eight- (8) hour schedule, work required by the Company and performed after eight (8) hours of work on a business day shall be remunerated at the hourly base rate and a half (1 'A), and at twice (2) the hourly base rate if the work required lasts more than four (4) hours.
For employees working on a four- (4) day ten- (10) hour schedule, work required by the Company and performed after ten (10) hours of work on a business day shall be remunerated at the hourly base rate and a half (1 'A), and at twice (2) the hourly base rate if the work required lasts more than two (2) hours
23.03	An employee who works overtime for more than two (2) hours after his/her regular day of eight (8) hours is entitled to one half-hour ('A) break without pay for this meal and to a meal allowance often dollars ($10.00).
23.04	Overtime: 5th, 6th or 7th day
a)	Scheduled overtime shall be posted forty-eight (48) hours in advance
b)	Overtime required in the function concerned shall first be offered to incumbent employees or replacements who have been scheduled in that function for the entire workweek and according to the order of those with the least accumulated overtime. In case of equality, seniority shall prevail. A refusal by an employee shall be considered time accumulated for purposes of equitable overtime allotment.
c)	Overtime shall next be offered to the employees of the department concerned who are capable of performing the required work and have the least accumulated overtime. In case of equality, seniority shall prevail. The overtime worked in another function shall be considered time accumulated for purposes of equitable overtime allotment.
d)	Overtime shall lastly be offered to the employees of the group concerned who are capable of performing the required work and have the least accumulated overtime. In case of equality, seniority shall prevail. The overtime worked in another function shall be considered time accumulated for purposes of equitable overtime allotment.
e)	Should the Company still need extra employees, it may use temporary employees
23	05 A copy of the posting sheets and a list showing all overtime worked and refused in the employee's function,
as well as all overtime worked in another function, shall be posted for verification by the employees. A copy
26
of the list shall be given to the local Union. For the purpose of establishing this list, overtime shall be calculated on an annual basis from September 1st to August 31s1 of each year.
23.06	a) Employees working on a five- (5)day, eight- (8) hour schedule
For employees working on a five- (5)day, eight- (8) hour schedule, work required by the Company and performed on a sixth (6th) day of the week shall be remunerated at the hourly base rate and a half (1 'A). Work required by the Company and performed on a seventh (7th) day of the week shall be remunerated at twice (2)the hourly base rate, with a guaranteed minimum of four (4) hours per day.
b) Employees working on a four- (4) day, ten- (10) hour schedule
For employees working on a four- (4) day ten- (10) hour schedule, work required by the Company and performed on a fifth (5th) day of the week shall be remunerated at the hourly base rate and a half (1 'A). When these employees work on a sixth (6th) day during their week, the work required by the Company shall be remunerated at the hourly base rate and a half (1 'A) if these employees have not worked on the fifth (5lh) day of their week and at twice (2) the hourly base rate if they have worked on the fifth (5lh) day of their week. When these employees work on a seventh (7fh) day during their week, the work required by the Company shall be remunerated at twice (2) the hourly base rate; the whole with a guaranteed minimum of four (4) hours per day.
23.07	The work required by the Company from an employee and performed on one of the thirteen (13) statutory holidays mentioned in Article 13 shall be paid at twice (2) his/her regular hourly base rate in addition to the payment of the statutory holiday to which the employee would be entitled according to the provisions of Article 13, with the exception of work performed on any regular shift the normal schedule of which overlaps the statutory holiday.
23.08	If an insufficient number of employees accepts to work overtime according to the procedures provided for in clauses 23.01 and 23.04, the qualified employees who are immediately available and have the least seniority shall be obliged to perform the required work.
ARTICLE 24 - DAILY GUARANTEE AND WAITING PERIODS
24.01	Employees working on a five- (5) day eight- (8) hour schedule
An employee working on a five- (5) day, eight- (8) hour schedule and who reports to work without having been advised in advance of the suspension of work on his/her shift shall receive as a guarantee six (6) hours of work or six (6) hours of wages at his/her regular hourly rate. However, an employee who has been absent from work has the responsibility to find out from the Company if there is work available before reporting to work.
24.02	Employeesworking on a four-(4)day, ten-(10) hour schedule
An employee working on a four- (4) day, ten- (10) hour schedule who reports for work without having been notified in advance of the suspension of work on his/her shift shall receive, as a guarantee, eight (8) hours of work or eight (8) hours of wages at his/her regular hourly rate. However, an employee who has been absent from work must find out from the Company if work is available before reporting to work.
24.03	An employee who has completed his/her normal work schedule and who is recalled by the Company after having left the premises shall receive his/her hourly wage rate and a half for each hour worked with a guaranteed minimum of six (6) hours at his/her regular rate, whichever is higher.
ARTICLE 25 - REST PERIODS
25.01	Employees working on a five- (5) day, eight- (E) hour schedule
The Company shall grant to employees working on a five- (5) day, eight- (8) hour schedule a fifteen- (15) minute rest period during the first part of the shift and a fifteen- (15) minute rest period during the second part of the shift. The said rest periods must normally precede and follow by at least thirty (30) minutes the time when the employee is entitled to his/her meal break.
25.02	Employees working on a four- (4) day, ten- (10) hour schedule
The Company shall grant to employees working on a four- (4) day, ten- (10) hour schedule a twenty- (20) minute rest period during the first part of the shift and a twenty- (20) minute rest period during the second
27
part of the shift The said rest periods must normally precede and follow by at least thirty (30) minutes the time when the employee is entitled to his/her meal break.
25 03 Employees working overtime are entitled to a rest period of fifteen (15) minutes at the beginning of the overtime Eligibility for subsequent rest periods of fifteen (15) minutes shall then be established for every two (2) hours of work, unless there is a meal period provided. This article is applicable to half (V9) an hour of overtime and more.
ARTICLE 26 -UNIFORMS
26.01	All uniforms not worn out or which can be used and which are mentioned in this article shall remain the property of the Company.
26.02	a)
b)
c)
d)
e)
f)
26.03	a) b)
Production, warehouse and household maintenance employees shall use up a total of forty-one (41) points per year in order to obtain the complete basic uniform.
Each item shall have a value varying between one (1) and six (6) points.
Garage, boiler, machinery maintenance and household maintenance employees shall use up a total of forty-four (44) points per year in order to obtain the complete basic uniform.
Each item shall have a value varying between one (1) and six (6) points.
Every year, all employees must obtain:
two (2) pairs of pants or one (1) pair of pants and one (1) pair of Bermuda shorts; two (2) shirts or two (2) sweaters, according to the employee's preference.
Upon presentation of the old shoes or old boots, all regular employees shall be entitled to a new pair of shoes or safety boots when the ones that they are wearing are worn out or defective. The Company agrees to offer three (3) different choices to employees: summer styles and winter styles.
During the duration of this Agreement, a three-quarter length winter overcoat or a half-coat shall be provided to the DCLs, and shall be replaced as required on an exchange basis.
For the purposes of this article, casual Inside employees who have completed their probationary period shall be granted thirty (30) points in order to obtain a uniform.
The Company shall furnish at its own expense, each year, to the garage department one (1) winter coat with winter pants, as well as one (1) smock for each employee who works at the pumps and routes service. A skidoo suit will be furnished to a garage department employee designated by the Company who may work outside. This clothing shall be replaced as required on an exchange basis
The Company shall provide, at its own expense, the maintenance employees (machinery. building and boiler department), with two (2) smocks.
26.04	The Company agrees to clean the mechanics' uniforms twice a week.
26.05	Beginning in September 2004, the Company shall take employees' measurements for the making of uniforms once a year, at the beginning of September, to ensure that winter uniforms are ready for use in the month of November of each year.
ARTICLE 27 • SPECIAL PROVISIONS
27.01	The trucks must be loaded, fuelled, oil-checked, washed and maintained by the employees assigned to these tasks.
27.02	The Company shall pay to each fleet or garage mechanic who must provide his/her own tools to perform his/her normal duties, an amount of three hundred seventy-five dollars ($375) per year, all of which is to be used for the purpose of replacing lost or damaged tools during the life of the present agreement. The said payment shall be made on or around September 15th of each year. The tools purchased by the employee shall belong to the employee.
28
In 2008, the amount allocated will be increased to four hundred dollars ($400)
During the term of this Collective Agreement, the Company shall maintain its current practice of replacing machinery maintenance mechanics' broken or damaged tools
27 03	A suitable room in each establishment is assignedto the employees for their rest period
27 04	No subcontract shall be granted for the fabrication and bottling of cans or bottles of any products sold by	the
Company or for any work normally performed by the members of the bargaining unit This provision shall not apply if the Company does not have in the establishments covered by the present collective agreement the necessary equipment or if the subcontract is the result of a complete or partial transfer of the assets of	the
Company The present provision shall not apply either in the case of a subcontract of limited duration	and
specific purposes to which the parties have agreed
29
ARTICLE 28 ■ TRANSFERS
28.01	When an employee is transferred permanently to a position for which the wage rate is higher than that of the function he/she occupied previously, he/she shall receive the applicable wage rate.
28.02	When an employee is permanently transferred to a function for which the wage rate is lower than that of the function he/she occupied previously, he/she shall receive the applicable wage rate.
28.03	In the case of a temporary transfer of less than five (5) working days at the request of the Company, from an hourly or weekly position, the employee shall receive the rate of the classification or of his/her classification, whichever is higher.
ARTICLE 29 - PREMIUMS
An employee who is designated by the Company as lead hand to supervise two (2) or more employees and is, furthermore, responsible for the quality and quantity of the work performed by these employees, shall receive a premium of seventy cents ($0.70) per hour above the highest wage rate payable for the function of the employees he/she is supervising.
A lead hand shall not be able to hire, fire or discipline employees.
An employee working on a shift other than the regular day shift shall receive a premium of one dollar and five cents ($1.05) per hour if the beginning of his/her shift is scheduled before 6:00 p.m. or one dollar and twenty-five cents ($1.25) per hour if the beginning of his/her shift is scheduled after 6:00 p.m. The premium shall apply only to the hours worked from noon (12:00 p.m.), as the case may be.
An employee whose regular schedule includes work on Saturdays or Sundays shall receive a premium of one dollar and seventy cents ($1.70) for each hour worked on Saturdays or Sundays according to his/her regularschedule.
The checkers and pump attendants who must work continuously outdoors are entitled to a fixed seasonal premium of seventy cents ($0.70) per hour, for each hour worked between October 1st and April 30th of each year Adequate winter uniforms shall be supplied to these employees. The temporary shelter, if necessary, shall be sufficient to cover two (2)trucks at a time.
The mechanics who have a recognized licence in refrigeration shall receive, in addition of their regular hourly wages, a premium of forty-five cents ($0.45) for each hour worked as such mechanics.
29 05 The trainer appointed by the Company shall receive a premium of sixty cents ($0.60) per hour for each hour of training he/she gives that is requested by the Company.
29.03
29 04
29.01	a) b)
29.02	a)
b)
30
ARTICLE 30 - SALARIES AND CLASSIFICATIONS
DEPARTMENTS	PRODUCTION
1. Production	"Premix" filling machine attendant
Date of signing
of Collective	01/09/07	01/09/08
Agreement
$24.37	$24.82	$25.32
CO2 filling machine attendant Household maintenance attendant
$24.37	$24.82	$25.32
$24.37	$24.82	$25 32
Stacking machine attendant Uncasing machine attendant Labelling machine attendant Carton former/filling machine attendant
$24.37	$24.82	$25	32
$24.37	$24.82	$25	32
$24.37	$24.82	$25	32
$24.37	$24.82	$25	32
Raw materials inspection (RMI) attendant
Syrup Maker Laboratory technician
2. Warehouse	D.L.C.
Warehouse sanitation maintenance attendant
$25.23
$25.08
$25.08
$25.08
$24.68
$25.68
$25.53
$25.53
$25.53
$25.13
$26 18
$26.03
$26.03
$26.03
$25.63
3. Garage	Pump attendant
Mechanics' and body workers' helper Mechanic and body worker Storekeeper Lift-truck mechanic
$24.37
$24.37
$26.73
$25.23
$26.73
$24.82
$24.82
$27.18
$25.68
$27.18
$25.32
$25.32
$27 68 $26.18 $27.68
4. Boilers
Fixed-machine mechanic
$26.73	$27.18	$27.68
5. Maintenance (Machinery and buildings)
6. Sterilization
Building maintenance attendant Lubricator
Machinery maintenance mechanic Storekeeper Electronics specialist Electrician
Sterilization and specialized cleaning attendant
$25.91
$24.60
$26.73
$25.23
$29.84
$29.26
$25.08
$26.36
$25.05
$27.18
$25.68
$30.29
$29.71
$25.53
$26.86 $25 55 $27.68
$26.18
$30.79
$30.21
$26.03
30 01 a) For the purpose of establishing minimum and maximum rates of pay, the following hourly rates shall apply for the duration of the collective agreement
30 02 Rates of regular employees on probation (clause 20 02) and rates of temporary employees (except students) who have completed their probationary period (clause 61 02)
Date of signing
of the Collective	01/09/07	01/09/08
Agreement
$18 14	$18 5£	$19 0E
30.03	Rates of casual employees on probation (clause 61.02):
31
Date of signing
of the Collective	01/09/07	01/09/08
Agreement
S15 51	$15.7:	$15.7'
30 04 Students
Students are casual employees who work during the period between Victoria Day and Labour Day and/or between December15 and January 15. They may also work prior to the said periods in order to receive training if they are supervised by a regular employee and if no regular Inside Group employee is laid off.
The hourly rate for students shall be a minimum of ten dollars ($10.00) and a maximum of twelve dollars ($12.00) for the term of this Agreement.
III. - PROVISIONS APPLICABLE TO THE OUTSIDE GROUP
ARTICLE 40- SENIORITY
40	01 A probationary employee is an employee who has not completed his/her probationary period as provided for in clause 40 02 or 61.02. A probationary employee has no rights by virtue of the seniority provisions of this agreement and may be dismissed by the Company; such a dismissal is not subject to the grievance and arbitration procedure.
CO 02 Any new employee must work for a probationary period of nine hundred and sixty (960) normal hours effectively worked (includingall hours of probation in virtue of clause 61.02) in a vacant regular job, during which period he/she acquires no seniority rights The seniority of employees who have completed their probationary period shall be established retroactively to the date on which they started to work following their last hiring or the date on which they were transferred into the bargaining unit.
40.03	General seniority shall be calculated in years, months, weeks and days of continuous service with the Company from the date the employee started to work following his/her last hiring by the Company or the date on which he/she was transferred into the bargaining unit.
40.04	There shall be, for the employees covered by this agreement, within the Outside group, the following types of seniority:
a)	General seniority, meaning the period of regular employment with the Company from the last hiring date.
b)	Departmental seniority, meaning general seniority as applied among employees of the same department. Within the group mentioned below, the departments and the functions in each department are as follows:
OUTSIDE GROUP
Departments
Functions
1.	Marketing	1.
		2.
2.	Delivery (Service Plus)	1.
3	Delivery (Conventional)	1.
		2.
4.	Cartage	1.
		2.
5.	Delivery (Bulk &	1.
	Transportation)	2.
		3.
		4.
1. Deliveryman (Service Plus)
Delivery helper
1. Deliveryman (Bulk) Deliveryman (Retrieval) Deliveryman (Transportation) Delivery helper (Bulk)
32
6.	Repairs & Technical Service	1
7. Replacement
Outside technician and installer
2.	Inside technician
3.	Storekeeper
4.	Storekeeper helper
5.	Neon route and maintenance
6.	Refrigerationtechnician
1.	Replacement (Marketing)
2.	Replacement (Bulk)
3.	Replacement (Conventional)
4.	Replacement (Service Plus)
5.	Replacement(Repairsand Service Department)
40.05	General seniority shall continue to accumulate as long as it is not lost in accordance with the provisions of this agreement.
40.06	There shall be loss of seniority or of continuity of service in the following cases:
a)	dismissal for cause;
b)	resignation or other interruption of service by voluntary action of the employee,
c)	lay-off of more than twelve (12) consecutive months if the employee has less than one (1) year of seniority and for lay-off of more than twenty-four (24) consecutive months if the employee has one (I) year or more of seniority;
d)	failure to respond within three (3) work days to a notice of recall made by the Company by telephone, by registered letter or by telegram to the last address given by the employee to the Company. The chief Union representative or Union director of the section shall be notified accordingly.
e)	absence due to personal illness or accident other than a work-related accident, with medical proof, for a period of more than twelve (12) consecutive months if the employee has less than one (1) year of seniority and for a continuous period of twenty-four (24) months if the employee has one (1) year and less than three (3) years of seniority and for thirty-six (36) months if the employee has three (3) years of seniority or more
40.07	The Company establishes every three (3) months (January, April, July and October) the seniority lists of the employees who have completed their probationary period. Copies of these lists are posted on the bulletin board and are sent to the Union's business office, in duplicate, and to the local Union's office during January, April, July and October of each year.
40.08	Beginning on the date of signing of this Collective Agreement, if two (2) or more new employees have the same seniority date, a draw shall be held in the presence of a Union director and a Company representative to determine who has the greater seniority at the time they become regular employees. This provision does not affect the seniority rank of employees having acquired seniority rights before the signing of this Collective Agreement.
40.09	A. DIRECTORS
Notwithstanding the provisions of this Agreement, it is understood that any such Union director, subject to a maximum of four (4), cannot be laid off because of a lack of work, as long as there is work available in his/her own wage category or in a lower wage category, in any of the establishments, provided he/she is able to perform the said work to the satisfaction of the Company. It is understood that, when exercising such privilege, the said employee may bump an employee having more seniority. The Union shall send a list to the Company, in order of function on the Union's executive, of the employees covered by this subparagraph.
B. CHIEF UNION REPRESENTATIVE
Notwithstanding the provisions in this Agreement, it is understood that the employee who is the chief Union representativefor the Outside group, cannot be laid off because of a lack of work, as long as there is work available in his/her own wage category or in a lower wage category, in his/her establishment, provided he/she is able to perform the said word to the satisfaction of the Company It is understood that, when
33
exercising such privilege, such an employee may displace an employee having more seniority. The Union shall send to the Company the name of the employees covered by this sub-paragraph.
C.	SHIFT FORMATION
In the choice of shifts, the chief Union representative shall be considered to be the most senior within his/her own group.
40.10	No promotions to jobs outside the bargaining unit are covered by the provisions of this agreement, and the employee thus promoted is entitled to a trial period of six (6) months. At any time before the expiration of the said period of six (6) months, the employee thus promoted who wishes to return to his/her former job is entitled to do so upon giving a one- (1) week notice to the Company, and he/she shall then return to his/her former job without losing any of the benefits provided for in this agreement. The same rules apply if the Company wishes to return him/her to his/her former job, except for the necessity of the one-(1) week notice. After this period of six (6) months, he/she loses all seniority in his/her group and he/she can only return to the unit with the consent and on the conditions established by the parties.
There shall normally be no permanent transfer from the Outside to the Inside group and vice versa. However, any employee who wishes to make such a transfer may submit a written request to this effect to the personnel department with a copy to the Union, and there may then be permanent transfers by mutual agreement in writing between the parties An employee so transferred will retain his/her full seniority and will accumulate it for purposes of vacation (Article 14) and benefits (Article 16) only. For all other purposes, including the choice of vacation, his/her seniority will begin to run as of the date of his/her transfer.
The same rule applies to the employee who, having exercised the right provided in the preceding paragraph, returns to his/her former group: except for purposes of vacations (Article 14) and benefits (Article 16), his/her seniority will begin to run as of the date of his/her return to his/her former group.
40.12 Upon the written request of the employee, he/she may be transferred from one group to another group in the event of temporary layoff on condition that jobs are available or filled by temporary employees in the other group and that the employee is qualified to do the available work.
The employee thus scheduled in the other group the day before the transfer may not return to his/her group the next morning even though the layoff is cancelled the next morning because of a work surplus.
However, if the employee, because of his seniority. is scheduled to work in the other group during the afternoon of the next day. the said employee thus scheduled may report in the morning in order to find out whether there is work in his/her group If such is the case, he/she may remain in his/her group that morning without being obligated to change groups in the afternoon
The employee shall returnto his/her former job without loss of seniority when work resumes in his/her group
40 11 a)
b)
ARTICLE 41 - PERSONNEL MOVEMENT
A. PROMOTIONS - DEMOTIONS - TRANSFERS
41.01	As soon as a permanent position becomes vacant, the Company must post same in all of its establishments for five (5) working days, specifying the normal qualifications required to perform the work and satisfy the normal requirements of the position. Copy of the said notice, including a summary description of the tasks required, shall be given to the Union.
41.02	Any employee wishing to apply for the posted position must sign his/her name on the notice form mentioned in the preceding clause during the aforesaid posting period. Absent employees who wish to be considered as candidates in the event of the posting of certain positions must make a written request to the personnel
office.
41	03 a) At the expiry of the posting period, the Company shall choose from among the employees who have applied for the position, as provided above, as long as they have the qualifications to perform the said function and to satisfy the normal requirements of the said position. Should the qualifications of two (2) or more employees be equal, preference shall go to general seniority. The
34
position must normally be filled within the ten (10) working days following the end of the posting period.
41.04
41.05
41.06
41.07
41.08
b) Notwithstanding any incompatible provisions of this article, in the Customer Service Department, where a permanent position is vacant among the account managers, the position shall be attributed, subject to the criteria of the preceding paragraph, to the employees of the Outside Group, except for the employees from the Repair and Service Department who apply for the position; failing this, the position shall be attributed to the employees from the Repair and Service Department,who apply for the position.
Any employee who has applied for a position and who feels that he/she has been treated unfairly by reason of the choice of the Company may file a grievance in accordance with the rules established by this agreement.
a)	For the purposes of the application of this article, a position shall not be considered vacant if the employee filling it is absent for any of the reasons of absence provided for or authorized by this agreement.
b)	For the purposes of replacing absent employees, replacements who possess the usual qualifications required to carry out and meet the normal job demands shall be assigned to the vacant positions taking into account their seniority, the particular requirements of the vacant positions and their availability when the vacancy occurs.
c)	The replacement assigned to a vacant position must remain in the said position until the end of the workweek, if required.
The order of priority for filling vacant positions is as follows:
A.	REPLACEMENTS- MARKETING
1.	Marketing/special events coordinator
2.	Merchandiser
B.	REPLACEMENTS- BULK
1.	Deliveryman (Bulk)
2.	Deliveryman (Retrieval)
3.	Deliveryman (Transportation)
4.	Delivery Helper
Employees assigned to replace sales representatives shall be entitled to a training period
When replacements- Marketing have no vacant positions to fill, their names shall be placed at the bottom of the replacements- bulk list. When replacements- bulk have no vacant positions to fill, their names shall be placed at the bottom of the replacements - conventional list. For the purposes of regular work only, when special events attendants have no work in this function, they shall be considered as being on the replacements- bulk list.
Any employee promoted to a vacant position is entitled to a trial period, determined by the Company, of a minimum duration of fifteen (15) working days and a maximum duration of forty (40) working days During this period, either at the request of the Company or at his/her own request, the employee may return to his/her former position without losing any of the benefits provided for in this agreement. As long as the employee is on his/her trial period, the Company shall not assign him or her to other tasks, notwithstanding the other clauses of this Collective Agreement.
The parties agree, for the purpose of the application of this article, that an employee may temporarily be assigned to the posted function as long as it has not been filled in accordance with the provisions of this article. In such a case, the Company may assign the volunteering employee of its choice.
In the event that an employee, for reasons accepted by the parties, wishes to be transferred to another function, he/she shall apply to the Company in writing for the transfer, his/her position shall then be posted and filled according to the provisions of this agreement, and this procedure shall be followed for all subsequent vacant positions. Such an employee may apply for any position so posted.
35
41 09 For health reasons or personal reasons accepted by both parties, an employee may request a job transfer or shift transfer within his/her department.
When agreeing to such a transfer, the Company shall respect the principle of seniority within his/her department and shall take into account the competence of the individual to fill the job and the employee concerned shall receive the regular rate of the position to which he/she is transferred.
41 10 Any employee who applies for the position of deliveryman or delivery helper must hold a truck driver's licence (Class lj.The present provision does not apply to the delivery helpers in the employ of the Company as of September 1st, 1977, and who have never had a truck driver's licence (Class 1) or the equivalent.
41 11	Delivery helpers shall be assigned to replace their Deliveryman in case of illness or during the latter's
vacation on condition that they are qualified to occupy this function and provided that their seniority allows them to do so
B.	LAY-OFF OR TRANSFER
41 12	In the case where, for lack of work, there must be a temporary slow-down in operations, the employees
affected by the slow-down shall be assigned at the discretion of the Company, provided they have the general seniority required. However, if temporary layoffs result, the employees affected shall be the temporary employees first and then the most junior of the group, provided that, in reverse order of seniority, the more senior employees are capable of performing the required functions.
In the event of the abolition of one or more positions within a function, the employees affected shall be those who have the least general seniority among those who perform the function. Notwithstanding any other irreconcilable provision of this agreement, they may use their general seniority to bump in any other function within their group, provided they have the general seniority required and are capable of performing the function following the trial period provided for in clause 41.06.
However, should the abolition of a position occur within the Service Plus Deliveryman function, the Company shall allow employees within the function to avail themselves on a seniority basis of the procedure provided for in clause 41 13 a) in the place of employees within the function having the least general seniority.
In the event of the abolition of one or more functions within the Outside Group, the employees affected shall be those who have the least general seniority. Notwithstanding any other irreconcilable provision of this agreement, they may use their general seniority to bump in any other function within their group, provided they have the general seniority required and the qualifications normally required to performthe function and satisfy the normal requirements of the position within a reasonable time following the raining period provided for in clause41.06.
This provision also applies to the employee unable to qualify as mentioned in clause 17.03
41.15 The employees shall receive their termination of employment form within ten (10) working days of their layoff.
C.	RECALL
41 16 When operations return to normal, the employees who were displaced or laid off are recalled to the work they usually' perform; recalls are made in the reverse order of layoffs. However, notwithstanding all other provisions contained in this agreement, in the Outside group the current practice of using the services of those employees who show up for work is maintained.
41 13 a)
b)
41 14 a)
b)
ARTICLE 42 -WORKWEEK AND WORKING HOURS
42	01 a)	Unless otherwise provided for in the present Agreement, the workweek shall be five (5) days or four
(4)days and consist of approximately forty (40)hours per week
b) When such an employee finishes his/her route in a manner satisfactory to the Company and within a number of hours less than that of a normal workday he/she may consider his/her workday to be
pnHpri
36
42.02 a)
b)
c)
42.03 a)
b)
Outside technicians assigned to the installation of fountains
For outside technicians assigned to the installation of fountains, the regular workweek shall be five (5) consecutive days of eight (8) hours each Monday through Friday. A half-hour (14) shall be allowed for a meal.
For the day shift, the workday may begin between 5:30 a.m. and 7:00 a m Inside technicians and refrigeration technicians (day shifts)
For inside technicians, the regular workweek shall be five (5) consecutive days of eight (8) hours each Monday through Friday or Sunday through Thursday.
Workday starting times may vary as follows:
Day shift: between 6:30 a.m. and 8:00 a.m. Monday through Friday;
Evening shift: between 2:30 p.m. and 4:30 p.m. Monday through Friday;
Night shift: between10:00 p.m. and 12:00 a.m. Sunday through Thursday
Outside technicians except those assigned to the installation of fountains
For outside technicians, the regular workweek shall be either four (4) consecutive days of ten (10) hours each Sunday through Wednesday or Wednesday through Saturday, or five (5) consecutive days of eight (8) hours each Monday through Friday.
Workday starting times may vary as follows:
Day shift: between 7:30 a.m. and 9:00 a.m. Monday through Friday;
Regularevening shift: between 11:30 a.m. and 1:00 p.m. Mondaythrough Friday;
Evening and weekend shift: between 11:30 a.m. and 1:00 p.m.
Marketing coordinators
For the day shift marketing coordinators, the regular workweek shall be four (4) consecutive or nonconsecutive days often (10) hours each Mondaythrough Friday. A half (%) hour shall be allowed for a meal. Choice of schedule shall be by order of seniority In the absence of volunteers, the youngest employees shall be assigned to the vacant positions.
For the day shift, the workday may begin between 5:30 a.m and 7:00 a.m
Merchandisers
For the day shift merchandisers, the regular workweek shall be either four (4) non-consecutive days of ten (10) hours each Mondaythrough Friday, or four (4) consecutive days of ten (10) hours each Sunday through Wednesday or Wednesday through Saturday. For the evening shift merchandisers, the regular workweek shall be five (5) consecutive days Monday through Friday. Choice of schedule shall be by order of seniority. In the absence of volunteers, the youngest employees shall be assigned to the vacant positions. The Company shall undertake to reduce to the minimum the number of evening shift merchandising positions.
For the day shift, the workday may begin between 5:30 a.m. and 7 a.m. and, for the evening shift, between 12:30 p.m. and 2:30 p.m. A half (14) hour shall be allowed for a meal.
42.04	Employees of the "Special Events" department
For the employees of the "Special Events" department, the regular workweek shall be either four (4) nonconsecutive days of ten (10) hours each Mondaythrough Friday, or four (4) consecutive days of ten (10) hours each Sunday through Wednesday or Wednesday through Saturday. For the day shift, the workday may begin between 5:30 a.m. and 7:00 a m. A half (14) hour shall be allowed for a meal.
42 05 Deliveryman (Transportation)
37
a)
b)
c)
For the day shift deliveryman (transportation), the regular workweek shall be either four (4) consecutive or non-consecutive days of ten (10) hours each Monday through Friday, or four (4) consecutive days of ten (10) hours each Wednesday through Saturday or Sunday through Wednesday.
The workday starting times may vary between 5:30 a m. and 7:00 a.m., and a half (Vi) hour break shall be allowed for a meal.
For the evening shift deliveryman (transportation), the regular workweek shall be five (5) consecutive days of eight (8) hours each Monday through Friday.
The workday starting times may vary between 2:30 p m. and 4:30 p.m., and a half (Vi) hour break shall be allowed for a meal.
For the night shift deliveryman (transportation), the regular workweek shall be five (5) consecutive days of eight (8) hours each starting on Sunday evening.
The work period starting times may vary between 9:00 p.m. and 10:00 p.m., and a half (Vi) hour break shall be allowed for a meal.
42.06	Deliveryman (Bulk), deliveryman (Retrieval) and delivery helpers (Bulk)
a)
b)
c)
d)
e)
For the day shift deliveryman (bulk) and delivery helpers (bulk) the regular workweek shall be either four (4) consecutiveor non-consecutive days often (10) hours each Monday through Friday,or four (4) consecutive days of ten (10) hours each Wednesday through Saturday; and a half (Vi) hour break shall be allowed for a meal.
For the evening and night shift deliveryman (bulk) and delivery helpers (bulk) the regular workweek shall be five (5) consecutive days of eight (8) hours each Monday through Friday; and a half ('A) hour break shall be allowed for a meal.
The workday starting times may vary between 5:30 a.m. and 7:00 a.m. for the day shift, between 2:30 p.m. and 4:30 p.m. for the evening shift and between 8:00 p.m. and 10:00 p.m. for the night shift.
For the deliveryman (retrieval), the regular workweek shall be either five (5) consecutive days of eight (8) hours each Monday through Friday, or four (4) consecutiveor non-consecutive days of ten (10) hours each Monday through Friday.
The workday starting times may vary between 5:30 a.m. and 7:00 a.m.. and a half (Vi) hour break shall be allowed for a meal
42 07 Deliveryman (Service Plus)
a)	For the day shift deliveryman (Service Plus), the regular workweek shall be either four (4) nonconsecutive days Monday through Friday or four (4) consecutive days Sunday through Wednesday or Wednesday through Saturday; and a half ('A) hour break shall be allowed for a meal.
b)	For the evening shift deliveryman (Service Plus), the regular workweek shall be five (5) consecutive days Monday through Friday, with a half (Vi) hour allowed for a meal; and the workday starting times may vary between 5:30 a.m. and 7:00 a.m. for the day shift and between 2:30 p.m. and 3:30 p.m. for the evening shift.
42.08 Deliveryman (Conventional) and delivery helpers (Conventional)
a)	For deliveryman (conventional) and delivery helpers (conventional), the regular workweek shall be either five (5) consecutive days Monday through Friday or Tuesday to Saturday, or four (4) consecutive or non-consecutive days Monday through Friday or Tuesday to Saturday; and a half (Vi) hour break shall be allowed for a meal.
b)	The workday starting times may vary between 5:30 a.m. and 7:00 a.m. for the day shift 42 09 Cartage department
38
a)	For the Cartage department employees, the regular workweek shall be either five (5) consecutive days of eight (8) hours each Monday through Friday or four (4) consecutive or non-consecutive days of ten (10) hours each Mondaythrough Friday.
b)	The workday starting times may vary between 5:30 a.m. and 7:00 a.m.; and a half (%) hour break shall be allowed for a meal.
42 10 Storekeepers and Neon route and maintenance
For the storekeepers and the Neon route and maintenance employees, the regular workweek shall be of five (5) consecutive days of eight (8) hours each Monday through Friday The workday starting times may vary between6 30 p m and 7 00 a m and a half (Vi) hour break shall be allowed for a meal
42 11 The work hours prescribed in the present article 42 may be changed with the consent of the parties Insofar as the efficiency required by the Company is maintained seniority shall normally prevail with respect to the choice of work shift, if it is for a full workweek or more
42 12 When there are one or more statutory holidays in a week, the Company shall endeavour to provide additional trucks or sales representatives depending on requirements Should it not be able to do so, employees may be required to work overtime, and they shall be remunerated at the applicable rate in accordance with the provisions of the present Agreement
42 13 No employee shall be scheduled to work regular time on more than one shift during the same workday
ARTICLE 43 -OVERTIME
43.01	Without in any way permitting a concerted refusal by the employees of the function concerned, overtime will
be performed, from an individual point of view, on a voluntary basis unless the Company is unable to find
amongst the other employees the qualified personnel necessary to perform the task.
43.02	a) Overtime shall first be offered to the employees in the function and on the shift concerned, who are
scheduled for the said function at the start of their shift, according to their descending order of seniority (rotation system). A refusal by an employee shall be considered time accumulated for purposes of fair overtime distribution. A list showing the overtime worked or refused shall be available for verification by the employees concerned.
b)	Overtime shall next be offered to the employees of the department and on the shift involved, who are capable of performing the work, according to their order of seniority. Overtime worked in another function shall be considered time accumulated for purposes of fair overtime distribution.
c)	Overtime shall lastly be offered to the employees of the group and on the shift concerned. who are capable of performing the work required, according to their order of seniority. Overtime worked in another function shall be considered time accumulated for purposes of fair overtime distribution
d)	Replacements who work in a single function shall be considered as being part of that function. For replacements who work in several functions, a calculation will be made on a pro rata basis and at the beginning of the year they will choose, on the basis of seniority, a function and will be considered as being a part of the said function.
43.03	a) Work performed at the request of the Company over and above the hours worked on his/her
normal workday will be remunerated at the regular hourly rate times one and a half (1 'A), and if the work period is prolonged to more than twelve (12) hours worked in a day, the remuneration will be twice the regular hourly rate.
b)	The work required by the Company and performed by an employee on a daily rate over and above forty (40) hours per week will be remunerated at one and a half (1 'A) times his/her daily rate divided by the number of hours worked on his/her normal workday for all hours worked above and beyond forty (40) hours per week.
c)	The work required by the Company and performed by an employee working on five (5) day eight (8) hour schedule and who has worked more than ten (10) hours and more than twelve (12) hours in a day, shall be paid one and a half (1 'A) times his/her daily rate divided by the number of regular hours of his/her workday.
39
The work required by the Company and performed by an employee working at a daily rate and who has worked more than twelve (12) hours in a day, shall be paid at twice (2) his/her daily rate divided by the numberof regular hours of his/her workday.
e)	It is understood that the application cf this article may not lead to the pyramiding of overtime payment within a given week
f)	Any employee who has completed his/her regular work schedule and is recalled by the Company after having left the premises will be paid at his/her hourly rate and a half for each hour worked, with a guarantee of a minimum of six (6) hours at his/her regular rate, whichever is higher
43	04 a) The employees who work more than two (2) hours after their regular day are entitled to one halfhour (%) break without pay for their meal and to a meal allowance cf ten dollars ($10 00)
The tractor-trailer driver who travels outside the Company's territory and who is on the road for more than ten (10) consecutive hours shall be entitled to a meal allowance of ten dollars ($1000)
OVERTIME: 5th, 6th OR 7th DAY
43.05 a)
b)
c)
d)
Employees working on a five- (5)day schedule of eight (8) hours each (fixed salary rate)
For employees working on a five- (5) day schedule of eight (8) hours each and at a fixed salary rate, the work required by the Company and performed on a sixth (6th) day cf the week shall be paid at the rate of one and a half (1 'A) times their fixed salary rate. The work required by the Company and performed on a seventh (7th) day of the week shall be paid at twice (2) their fixed salary rate, with a guaranteed minimum of four (4) hours per day.
Employees working on a five- (5) day schedule of eight (8) hours each (with base salary and commission)
For employees working on a five- (5) day schedule of eight (8) hours each with a base salary and commission. the work required by the Company and performed on a sixth (6th) day of the week shall be paid at the rate of one and an half (1 'A) times their base salary for a regular workday, in addition to the regular commissions earned on that day. The work required by the Company and performed on a seventh (7th) day of the week shall be paid at twice (2) the base salary for a regular workday, in addition to the regularcommissions earned on that day.
Employees working on a four- (4) day schedule of ten (10) hours each (fixed salary rate)
For employees working on a four- (4) day schedule often (10) hours and at only a fixed salary rate, the work required by the Company and performed on a fifth (5th) day of the week shall be paid at the rate of one and a half (1 'A) times their fixed salary rate. When these employees work on a sixth (6th) day during their week, the work required by the Company shall be paid at the rate of one and a half (1 'A) times their fixed salary rate when they did not work on the fifth (5th) day of their week and at twice (2) the fixed salary rate when they worked on the fifth (5th) day of their week. When these employees work on a seventh (7lh) day during their week, the work required by the Company shall be paid at twice (2) the fixed salary rate; the whole with a guaranteed minimum cf four (4) hours per day.
Employees working on a four- (4) day schedule often (10) hours each (with base salary and commission)
For employees working on a four- (4) day schedule of ten (10) hours each and with a base salary and commission, the work required by the Company and performed on a fifth (5) day of the week shall be paid at the rate of one and a half (1 'A) times the hourly base rate, in addition to the regular commissions earned on that day. When these employees work on a sixth (6,h) day during their week, the work required by the Company shall be remunerated at the rate of one and a half (1 'A) times the hourly base rate when they did not work on the fifth (5th) day of their week and at twice (2) the hourly base rate when they worked on the fifth (5th) day of their week, in addition to the regular commissions earned on that day. When these employees work on a seventh (7") day during their week, the work required by the Company shall be paid at twice (2) the hourly base rate, in addition to the regular commissions earned on that day.
40
e)	Notwithstanding provisions 43.05 a), b), c) and d), an employee can accept to complete the hours
of his/her regular workweek during one (1) day outside his/her regular schedule and, therefore, be paid at his/her regular rate, if an employee with less seniority has worked more hours than him/her during the week.
43.06	The following holiday pay shall apply should employees have to work on a statutory holiday during the term of this agreement:
a)	the employees who receive a base salary plus commission shall receive, in addition to the holiday pay mentioned above, twice (2) the base salary, plus the commissions earned on that day.
b)	The employees other than those mentioned in the preceding paragraph shall receive, in addition to holiday pay, twice (2) their regular wage rate for any work performed on such a holiday, with a minimum guarantee of four (4) hours of paid wages.
43.07	If an insufficient number of employees accept to work overtime in accordance with the procedure provided for in clause 43.02, the qualified employees immediately available and having the least seniority shall be obliged to carry out the required work.
ARTICLE 44 - DAILY GUARANTEE AND WAITING TIMES
44.01	a) In all cases where deliveryman (Service Plus) scheduled to work are prevented from working
because no vehicle is available for that day, the deliveryman (Service Plus) concerned shall then be paid for such a day in accordance with his/her base salary plus a minimum commission, calculated on the average commissions earned during the week in question.
b)	In the event where such employee is retained inside because of a breakdown or lack of a vehicle or
products, or a (hand-held) computer malfunction, and is thus delayed, the said employees shall not be obliged to performhis/her day's work after 12:00 (noon) p.m.
44.02	In cases where deliveryman (Service Plus) are on standby for more than one hour because the Company is unable to provide them with regular trucks or trailer trucks for their work, as the case may be; or because of the breakdown of a truck on the road or a (hand-held) computer malfunction, the Company shall guarantee them the following rates for their standby hours:
Date of signing
of the Collective	01/09/07	01/09/08
Agreement
$17.77	$18 2	$18 7^
44.03	Should an employee with a base salary and commission be absent on paid holiday and that his/her position is filled by a replacement, he/she shall receive a remuneration equal to that earned by the replacement for this absence. If he/she is not replaced, he/she shall receive the remuneration provided for in clause 13.03
44.04	Employees working on a five- (5) day eight- (8) hour schedule (fixed salary rate)
An employee working on a five- (5) day eight- (8) hour schedule and at a only fixed salary rate and who reports for work without having been informed beforehand of the suspension of work on his/her shift shall receive, as a guarantee, six (6) hour-work or six (6) hour-pay at his/her regular hourly rate. However, an employee who was absent from work must find out from the Company whether there is work available before reporting to work.
44.05	Employees working on a four- (4) day ten- (I0) hour schedule (fixed salary rate)
An employee working on a four- (4) day ten- (10) hour schedule and at only a fixed salary rate and who reports for work without having been informed beforehand of the suspension of work on his/her shift shall receive, as a guarantee, eight (8) hour-work or eight (8) hours-pay at his/her regular hourly rate. However, an employee who was absent from work must find out from the Company whether there is work available before reporting to work.
ARTICLE 45 - REST PERIODS
45.01	a) Employees working on a five- (5Jday eight- (8) hour schedule
41
The Company shall grant employees working on a five- (5) day eight- (8) hour shift, rest periods of fifteen (15) minutes during the first part of the shift and fifteen (15) minutes during the second part of the shift The said rest periods must normally precede and exceed by at least thirty (30) minutes the time when the employee is entitled to his/her meal break.
b)	Employees working on a four- (4) day ten- (10) hour schedule
The Company shall grant employees working on a four- (4) day ten- (10) hour shift rest periods of twenty (20) minutes during the first part of the shift and twenty (20) minutes during the second part of the shift. The said rest periods must normally precede and exceed by at least thirty (30) minutes the time when the employee is entitled to his/her meal break.
c)	The rest periods provided in provisions45.01 a) and 45.01 b) apply only to the Inside and Outside technicians assigned to the installation of fountains. For the other employees, the meal periods provided in provisions42.03 and the following are also rest periods without loss of regular pay. The parties agree that this provision aims only to confirm the practice in effect when signing the collective agreement (2000) and will not have an impact on operations.
45 02 Employees working overtime are entitled to a rest period of fifteen (15) minutes at the beginning of the overtime. Eligibility for subsequent rest periods of fifteen (15) minutes shall then be established for every two (2) hours of work, unless there is a meal period provided. This clause is applicable to half (%) an hour of overtime and more.
ARTICLE 46 -UNIFORMS
46.01	All uniforms not worn out or which can be used, and which are mentioned in this article, remain the property of the Company.
46.02	a) With respect to winter and summer uniforms for deliveryman (Service Plus), deliveryman, delivery
helpers, merchandisers, special events attendants, and bulk, transportation and cartage employees, Inside and Outside technicians and replacements:
These employees shall use a total of 60 points per year in order to obtain the complete basic uniform.
Each item shall have a value varying between 1 and 15 points.
The Company shall provide technicians with two (2) smocks per employee for the term of the collective agreement.
For the winter period, the Company shall provide Inside and Outside technicians and bulk, transportation and cartage deliveryman with a storm coat on an exchange basis.
b) With respect to winter and summer uniforms for sales representatives, marketing coordinators and sales replacements
These employees shall use a total of 68 points per year in order to obtain the complete basic uniform.
Each item shall have a value varying between 1 and 15 points.
The Company shall provide.
1.	a winter coat or winter overcoat or storm coat every two (2) calendar years;
2.	the gloves (including leather gloves on return of used gloves) and the tie on request
46.03	Upon presentation of the old shoes or boots, all regular employees shall be entitled to new pairs of shoes or boots when worn out or defective. The Company agrees to offer three (3) difference choices to the employees: summer styles and winter styles.
46.04	The cleaning, pressing and normal upkeep of the said uniforms are the responsibility of the employees, at their own expense; this normal upkeep, cleaning and pressing must at all times be done to the satisfaction of the Company
42
46.05	Beginning in September 2004, the Company shall take measurementsfor the making of the winter uniforms once (1) a year, at the beginning of September, so that winter uniforms will be ready for use in November of each year.
46.06	The Company shall supply the necessary work gloves (including leather gloves on return of used gloves) to the deliveryman (Service Plus), deliveryman, delivery helpers, merchandisersand special events attendants, and technicians.
ARTICLE 47 - SPECIAL PROVISIONS
47.01	It is agreed between the parties that should, during the term of the present collective agreement, for industrial or commercial reasons, the Company be obliged to change its method of distribution, there shall be before this is done, a meeting with the Union to discuss the required modifications to the collective agreementthen in effect, which modifications shall apply only to the articles which could be affected by the said changes. If no agreement can be reached, the Union may use the grievance procedure outlined in this collective agreement.
47.02	When circumstances warrant, there will be route revisions and equilibration. On such occasions, the Company shall inform employees who are on the CSST or group disability insurance to enable them to assert their rights.
47.03	In the event that the Company must introduce fundamental changes to the system of reports filled in by any deliveryman at the end of his/her workday, there shall be a meeting between the Union and the Company in order to discuss these changes before they come into force. Failing an agreement, the changes shall be put into effect by the Company after a period of sixty (60) days; the Union, if not satisfied, has the right to submit a grievance in accordance with the procedures provided for in clause 47.01.
47.04	When the trucks return, the deliveryman (Service Plus) and the deliveryman shall check their whole load in the presence of a verification attendant and the two (2) shall sign the return sheet. A sufficient number of persons representing the Company must be available each day.
47.05	The current policy is maintained, namely:
a)	Outside technicians are not obligated to deliver tanks of products or boxed bags. However, they may in exceptional circumstances deliver the number of tanks of products or boxed bags necessary for the installation of the equipment.
b)	Outside technicians shall continue to receive from their immediate superior, when necessary, an amount of money to cover their expenses.
47.06	No sales employee or delivery employee shall be obligated to accept for delivery a tank which is not full or which is bearing a broken seal.
47.07	The employees are not responsible for breakage except if there is negligence on the part of the employee
47.08	The Company shall continue to supply on the routes the necessary two-wheel hand trucks, hooks, curb climbers, trolleys and rollers, as well as a safe in Service Plus trucks.
47.09	a) In the case of delivery of the Company's products by conventional deliveryman, delivery helpers
shall be provided to them, except in the following cases
(i) the twenty-two (22) routes without delivery helper, such as designated by the Company from time to time, including twenty (20) assigned for work from Monday to Friday and two (2) assigned for work from Tuesday to Saturday;
(jj) the additional routes designated by the committee provided below, or failing that, by the arbitrator;
(iii)	the special afternoon deliveries.
A joint committee, made up of two (2) employer representatives and two (2) Union representatives, will look into every proposal the Company makes for additional routes without delivery helper, by considering the following criteria:
1)	the number of cases per truck;
2)	the number of customers;
43
3)	customer difficulties;
4)	the equipment required for working;
5)	the product mix.
If there is disagreement within the committee, the Company may refer the difference to an arbitrator in accordance with provisions9 and 10.
b)
c)
47 10 a) b)
In the case of delivery of the Company's products by deliveryman (bulk) to customers for whom the delivery presents unusual problems, the Company agrees to take the necessary measures in order to provide the appropriate assistance. In the event that there is a disagreement, the matter shall be submitted to a joint committee made up of two (2)management representatives and two (2)Union representatives, who shall have the mandate to settle the disagreement.
There may be, during peak periods, two (2)t rucks on the same route or a reloading of the same truck, after consultation between the Company and the team. If there is a disagreement, the Union shall have the right to make the appropriate representations.
Conventional deliveryman and conventional delivery helpers shall be responsible for the merchandising of the products that they deliverto the customers they serve.
In particular instances, the cartage deliveryman shall deliver only the quantity of products necessaryto start-up the equipmentthat he/she delivers and installs.
47.11 An employee who has accepted a cheque from a client after having obtained the permission of the district manager or the sales manager shall not be held responsible should the cheque be uncovered (NSF). An employee shall continue to be notified when a cheque should not be accepted.
47 12 The Company will pay each technician who is obliged to supply his/her own tools to accomplish his/her regular work with an amount of two hundred dollars ($200)per agreement year, the whole for the purpose of replacing the tools damaged or lost during the term of this collective agreement. This allowance will be payable on or about the 15th of September of each year. The tools purchased by the employee will belong to the employee. In 2008, the amount of this allocation shall be increased to two hundred twenty-five ($225) dollars
47 13 A rotation system shall be established between the transportation drivers and those assigned to the transportation of sugar on the same work shift. This rotation shall be done on the basis of one full workweek transporting sugar.
47.14 No subcontract will be awarded for the distribution and delivery of cans or bottles of any product sold by the Company or any work that is normally performed by the members of the bargaining unit. This provision does not apply if the subcontract results from the complete or partial transfer of the Company's assets. Nor shall this provision apply in the case of a subcontract of limited duration and for specific purposes to which the parties have agreed.
ARTICLE 48 -TRANSFERS
48 01 When an employee is transferred permanently to a position for which the wage rate is higher than that of the function he/she occupied previously, he/she shall receive the applicable wage rate.
48.02	When an employee is permanentlytransferred to a function for which the wage rate is lower than that of the function he/she occupied previously, he/she shall receive the applicable wage rate.
48 03 In the case of a temporary transfer of less than five (5) working days at the request of the Company, from an hourly, daily or weekly position, the employee shall receive the rate of the classification or of his/her classification. whichever is higher
ARTICLE 49- PREMIUMS
49.01	a) An employee who is working on a shift other than regular day shift, shall receive a premium of one dollar and five cents ($1.05) an hour if his/her working shift starts before 6:00 p.m. or one dollar and twenty-five cents ($1.25Jf his/her working shift starts after 6:00 p.m. The premium shall apply only to the hours worked from noon (12:00 p.m.), as the case may be.
44
b)	An employee whose normal schedule includes work to be performed on Saturdays or Sundays shall receive a premium of one dollar and seventy cents ($1.70) for each hour worked on a Saturday or Sunday in accordance with his/her normal schedule.
c)	Any employee working as a refrigeration technician shall be entitled to a premium of forty-five cents ($0.45) an hour.
ARTICLE 50 - SALARIES AND CLASSIFICATIONS
50.01	Deliveryman (Service Plus)
a)	The deliveryman (Service Plus) on a ten-(IO) hours per day schedule shall be paid on a daily basis:
Date cf signing
of the Collective	01/09/07	01/09/08
Agreement
$177.65	$182.15	$187.15
b)	The deliveryman (Service Plus) on a eight-(8) hours per day schedule shall be paid on a daily basis:
Date of signing
of the Collective	01/09/07	01/09/08
Agreement
$142.12	$145.72	$149.72
c)	For the duration cf the present Agreement, deliveryman (Service Plus) shall be entitled, in addition to the aforementioned daily base rate, to a commission cf eighty-five ($0.85) cents per case of 24 bottles cf any size.
50 02 Deliveryman (Bulk) and Deliveryman (Retrieval)
The deliveryman (Bulk) and the deliveryman (Retrieval) on a ten- (10) hours per day schedule shall be paid only at a daily rate of:
Date of signing
of the Collective	01/09/07	01/09/08
Agreement
$276 40	$280 90	$285 90
The deliveryman (Bulk) and the deliveryman (Retrieval) on an eight- (8) hours per day schedule shall be paid only at a daily rate of
Date of signing
of the Collective	01/09/07	01/09/08
Agreement
$221.12	$224.72	$228.72
50.03	Delivery Helper (Bulk)
The delivery helper (Bulk) on a ten- (10) hours per day schedule shall be paid only at a daily rate of:
Date of signing
of the Collective	01/09/07	01/09/08
Agreement
$241.80	$246.30	$251.30
The delivery helper (Bulk) on an eight- (8) hours per day schedule shall be paid only at a daily rate of:
Date of signing
of the Collective	01/09/07	01 /09/08
Agreement
$193,44	$197.04	$201.04
50.04	Deliveryman (Conventional)
45
50.05
50 06
50 07
a)	The deliveryman (Conventional) on an eight- (8) hours per day schedule shall be paid on a daily basis of
Date of signing
of the Collective	01/09/07	01/09/08
Agreement
$219 60	$223 20	$227 20
b)	The deliveryman (Conventional)on a ten-(IO) hours per day schedule shall be paid on a daily basis of:
Date of signing
of the Collective	01/09/07	01/09/08
Agreement
$274.50	$279.00	$284.00
c)	However, the deliveryman (Conventional) assigned to a route without a delivery helper shall be paid on a daily basis at a rate of $0.19 an hour more than the rate provided for in clause 50.05 a) or
50.05	b), as the case may be.
Delivery Helper (Conventional)
a)	Delivery helper (Conventional) on an eight- (8) hours per day schedule shall be paid on a daily basis of:
Date of signing
of the Collective	01/09/07	01/09/08
Agreement
$207.60	$211.20	$215.20
b)	Delivery helper (Conventional on a ten-(10) hours per day schedule shall be paid on a daily basis of:
Date of signing
of the Collective	01/09/07	01/09/08
Agreement
$259.50	$264.00	$269.00
Marketing coordinator
a) The hourly salary for a marketing coordinator shall be as follows: Date of signing
of the Collective	01/09/07	01/09/08
Agreement
$27 49	$27 9r	$28 44
Merchandiser
The hourly salary for a newly hired merchandiser shall be as follows:
a)
b)
c)
d)
Date of 01/09/07 01/09/08 signing of Collective Agreement
Beginning rate Rate after working in	$19.85	$19.85	$19.85
the position for one (1) year Rate after working in	$21.10	$21.10	$21.10
the position for two (2) years Rate after working in the position for three (3) years	$22.60	$22.60	$22.60
or after ten (10) years of seniority	$24 35	$24 35	$24 35
46
Despite subparagraphsb), c) and d), as of December 1 , 2006, there will be no increase in the salary scales throughoutthe term of the Collective Agreement.
50.08 Deliveryman (Cartage)
The hourly salary shall be as follows:
50.11
Date of signing of the Collective Agreement
$25.47
01/09/07
$26.02
50.09	Delivery Helper (Cartage)
The hourly salary shall be as follows:
01/09/08
$26.62
Date of signing of the Collective Agreement
$25.36
01/09/07
$25.91
01/09/08
$26.51
50.10	Driver - Transport
The Driver- Transport on a ten- (10) hours per day schedule shall be paid only at a daily rate of:
Date of signing of the Collective
Agreement
$260.00
01/09/07
01/09/08
$ 264.50	$269.50
The Driver- Transport on an eight- (8) hours per day schedule shall be paid only at a daily rate of:
Date of signing of the Collective Agreement
$208.00
01/09/07
$211.60
01/09/08
$215.60
Special Events Attendant
The hourly salary shall be as follows:
Date of signing of the Collective
Agreement
$25.85
01/09/07
$26.30
50.12 Outside Technician
The hourly salary shall be as follows
01/09/08
$26.80
Date of signing of the Collective
Agreement
$26.95
01/09/07
$27.50
01/09/08
$28.10
50.13 Inside Technician
The hourly salary shall be as follows:
Date of signing of the Collective Agreement
$26.95
01/09/07
$27.50
01/09/08
$28.10
47
50.14 Storekeeper
The hourly salary shall be as follows:
Date of signing
of the Collective	01/09/07
Agreement
$25.63	$26.0£
50 15 Storekeeper Helper
The hourly salary shall be as follows:
Date of signing of the Collective	01/09/07	01/09/08
Agreement
$20 35	$20 8C	$21.3C
50 16 Neon Routes and Maintenance
The hourly salary shall be as follows:
Date of signing
of the Collective	01/09/07	01/09/08
Agreement
$20 35	$20 8(	$21 3C
50 17 Replacement (Marketing, Bulk, Service Plus or Conventional)
The rate applicable to the function he/she is replacing
50 18 Rates for regular employees on probation (clause 40.02) and temporary employees (except students) who have completed their probationary periods (clause 61.02) - Outside Group
a)	Positions paid at an hourly rate (except merchandisers)
Date of signing
of the Collective	01/09/07	01/09/08
Agreement
$19.14	$19.59	$ 20.0E
b)	Positions paid at a daily rate on a schedule of eight (8) hours per day:
Date of signing
of the Collective	01/09/07	01/09/08
Agreement
$153.12	$ 156.72	$160.72
c)	Positions paid at a daily rate on a schedule of ten (10) hours per day:
Date of signing
of the Collective	01/09/07	01/09/08
Agreement
$19140	$195 90	$200 90
d)	Position of deliveryman (Service Plus) paid at a daily rate on a schedule of eight (8) hours plus commission
Date of signing
of the Collective	01/09/07	01/09/08
Agreement
$94.80	$98.4C	$ 102.40
01/09/08
$26.5£
48
The commission is eighty-five cents ($0 85) per case of 24 bottles for all sizes
e)	Position of deliveryman (Service Plus) at a daily rate of ten (10) hours plus commission
Date of signing
of the Collective	01/09/07	01/09/08
Agreement
$118.50	$123.00	$128.00
The commission is eighty-five cents ($0.85) per case of 24 bottles for all sizes.
f)	Merchandiser:
Date of signing
of the Collective	01/09/07	01/09/08
Agreement
$14.00	$ 14.0C	$14.0C
Nevertheless, casual merchandisers who have been employed in this position since December 1st 2006 will continue to receive the salary they were receiving on December 1st, 2006, as long as they retain this status
50 19 Rates for temporary employees on probation (clause 61 02)
a)
b)
c)
Occasional employees with a Class I permit (except merchandisers) Date of signing
of the Collective	01/09/07	01/09/08
Agreement
$19 14	$19	$19 1^
Occasional employees without a Class I permit (except merchandisers) Date of signing
of the Collective	01/09/07	01/09/08
Agreement
$15.51	$15.75	$15.75
Occasional merchandisers:
Date of signing of the Collective Agreement $10 00 to $12 00
01/09/07	01/09/08
$10 00 to	$10 00 to
$12 OC	$12.0C
50.20 Students
a)	For the duration of the present collective agreement, the hourly salary of students working at a fixed rate shall be minimum ten dollars ($10) and maximum twelve dollars ($12)a n hour.
b)	A student is a temporary employee working during the period between Victoria Day and Labour Day and/or between December 15th and January 15th. He/she may also work before or after the said periods if no regular employee from the Outside Group is on lay-off. He/she may also work before the said periodsto receive the necessarytraining if a regular employee supervises him/her.
IV. - PROVISIONS APPLICABLE TO TEMPORARY EMPLOYEES ARTICLE 60- GENERAL
60.01	Definition
A temporary employee means a person who works regularly at functions governed by this collective agreement, but whose services are not required on a permanent basis
60.02	Applicable clauses
This article applies to temporary employees and, in addition, specifies the clauses of the collective agreement which are applicable thereto. None of the other clauses of the agreement are applicable to such employees unless the contrary is expressly provided.
60.03	Subject to the provisions of this article, the following clauses apply to temporary employees who have completed their probationary period: Articles 1, 3, 4 (except4.08); clause 5.01; Articles 6, 7, 8, 13, 17, 18, 19: clauses1501 through 15.07;clauses23 02, 23 03, 23 04, 23.05; Article 25; clauses 26,02 and 29.02; clauses 43 04, 43 05, 43 06: clause 44 02; Article 45; clauses 47 03, 47,05, 47.06, 47.07, 47,09, 47.10, 47 11 and 49 01.
Moreover, any temporary employee who meets the eligibility requirements provided in Article 34 of the Act on Supplemental Pension Plans during the previous fiscal year, becomes a member of the pension plan provided in clause 16.10, according to the provided modalities, effective from the following January 1st, starting on January 1st, 2001. He/she must remain an active member of the said plan as long has he/she meets the criteria provided above.
The parties recognize and accept that this provision resolves any question regarding a membership or eligibility of the temporary employees to the said retirement plan.
Clause 27,02 applies to the temporary employee assigned to the position of fleet or garage mechanic whereas clause 47,12 applies to the temporary employee assigned to the position of technician.
Clauses 22.02 a) and 22,02 b) apply, independently, to the Inside Group temporary employees who have completed their probationary period.
60 04 Temporary employees who have completed their probationary period are entitled to the recourses set out in Articles 9 and 10 of the collective agreement ("Grievance Procedure" and "Arbitration") if they have grievances concerning the interpretation or application of this section.
60	05 Interpretation
For the purposes of this collective agreement, the word "section" means Section IV, which sets out the provisions applicable to temporary employees.
ARTICLE 61 - SENIORITY
61.01	A temporary employee on probation is an employee who has not completed his/her probationary period as set out in clause 61.02. A temporary employee on probation has no rights pursuant to the seniority provisions of this section and, if he/she is dismissed by the Company, such dismissal is not subject to the grievance and arbitration procedure.
61.02	Any temporary employee governed by this section acquires temporary employee seniority rights after having completed a probationary period of nine hundred and sixty (960) normal hours effectively worked outside of the period from the 15th of April to the 30lh of September
61	03 The seniority of temporary employees will be calculated in years, months, weeks, and days of service for the
Company as of the nine hundred and sixty-first (961s1) normal hour effectively worked outside of the period from the 15,h of April to the 30lh of September.
Beginning on the date of signing of this Collective Agreement, if two (2) or more new employees have the same seniority date, a draw shall be held in the presence of a Union director and a Company representative to determine who has the greater seniority at the time when they have completed the probationary period provided for in clause 61.02. This provision does not affect the seniority rank of temporary employees having already acquired seniority rights before the signing of this Collective Agreement.
61.04	It is agreed that the seniority of temporary employees is distinct and separate from that of regular employees. In addition, the seniority of temporary employees will be distinct and separated according to the following two groups:
A.	Inside Group
B.	Outside Group
50
61.05	Any work to be performed by temporary employees will be distributed to the temporary employees of the group concerned, who have completed their probationary period by order of seniority, and provided they are qualified to perform the function immediately. The call will be made according to the practices already established.
The Company agrees to fill the vacant or new positions of regular employees by temporary employees of the group concerned (Inside or Outside, as the case may be), who have completed their probationary period, before hiring new employees, provided that such employees have the normal qualifications required to perform the function and satisfy the normal requirements of the position. The Company agrees to nominate such a temporary employee as regular employee if the latter leaves definitely his/her position for one of the reasons provided in clauses 20 06 a) or 40.06 a) [If the dismissal is final], 20.06 b) or 40.06 b), 20.06 d) or 40.06 d) or 20.06 e) or 40 06 e), or if the regular employee has passed away. However, this provision does not apply if the regular employee is liable to be recalled and is then on lay-off
In the event that the qualifications of two or more temporary employees are equal, preference will be given to seniority, and their seniority as regular employees will begin to run as of the first (1st) day of their transferto the vacant regular-salaried position.
61.07	The seniority of temporary employees continues to accumulate as long as it is not lost in accordance with the provisions of this section.
61.08	There will be loss of seniority or continuity of service for any of the following reasons:
a)	dismissal for cause;
b)	resignation or other termination of service by voluntary action of an employee;
c)	failure to be called or recalled to work for a continuous period of three (3) months;
d)	failure to respond to the Company's call-to-work notice on three (3) consecutive occasions;
e)	absence due to a personal illness or accident other than a work accident, with medical proof, for a continuous period of three (3) months.
61.09	The Company shall establish every three (3) months (January, April, July and October) special seniority lists for temporary employees in the Inside Group and the Outside Group, who have completed their probationary period. Copies of these lists will be sent to the business office of the Union, in duplicate, during the months of January, April, July and October of each year; and a copy will be forwarded to the local Union.
61.06 a)
b)
ARTICLE 62-WORKING DAYS AND HOURS
62.01	The working days and hours of temporary employees in the Inside Group are established according to the schedules normally applicable to regular employees in the Inside Group pursuant to the provisions of this collective agreement.
62.02	The working days and hours of temporary employees in the Outside Group are established according to the schedules normally applicable to regular employees in the Outside Group pursuant to the provisions of this collective agreement.
ARTICLE 63 - PAID HOLIDAYS
63 01 Temporary employees who have not completed their probationary period are entitled to eight (8) paid statutory holidays, as follows
-	New Year's Day
-	Easter Monday
-	Victoria Day
-	Saint-Jean-Baptiste Day
-	Canada Day
-	Labour Day
-	Thanksgiving
51
Christmas Day
63.02	The benefits so granted by this article are subjectto the following conditions:
a)	The temporary employee must have completed thirty (30) days of regular service for the Company.
b)	To be entitled to payment for the holiday, the temporary employee must work during the week of the holiday and the preceding week unless any absence is authorized by the collective agreement or the Company.
63.03	As payment for the statutory holidays mentioned above, the temporary employee receives remuneration equivalent to the total of the remuneration he/she received during the week of the holiday and the week preceding it, divided by the number of working days scheduled for the regular employees during these weeks, to a maximum equal to one regular day of work.
ARTICLE 64 -VACATION
64.01	In order to calculate the vacation to which temporary employees are entitled, the year starts on May 1st and ends on April 30lh of the following calendar year, the same rule applies to the calculation of vacation pay.
64.02	Employees who, on April 30th of the current year, have less than one year of service in the employment of the Company are entitled to one day of vacation for each full month of continuous service, notwithstanding that the total duration of the said vacation may not exceed ten (10) working days.
64 03 Employees who, on April 30th of the current year, have more than one year's service in the employment of the Company shall be entitled to the vacation provided for in the Act respecting Labour Standards.
64.04	Vacations are accorded to temporary employees and must be taken either between the 1st of October and the 15th of November or between the 1st of January and the 3T of March following the reference year mentioned in clause 64.01, the whole according to the availability of the Company as well as the requirements of its operations.
64.05	Vacation pay will represent the equivalent of four percent (4%) of their total wages earned during the reference year mentioned in clause 64.01 and will be remitted to the employees when they take their vacation, according to the normal pay cycle.
ARTICLE 65- SALARIES
65.01 A. Temporary employees (except students) who have completed their probationary period -
Outside Group
a)	Positions paid at an hourly rate (except merchandisers):
Date of signing
of the Collective	01/09/07	01/09/08
Agreement
$19.14	$19.55	$20.05
b)	Positionspaid at a daily rateon a scheduleof eight-(8) hoursperday:
Date of signing
of the Collective	01/09/07	01/09/08
Agreement
$153.12	$156.72	$160.72
c)	Positionspaid at a daily rate on a schedule of ten-(10) hoursperday.
Date of signing
of the Collective	01/09/07	01/09/08
Agreement
$191.40	$195.90	$200.90
52
B.
C,
D.
d)	Position of deliveryman (Service Plus) paid at a daily rate on a schedule of eight-(8) hours plus commission:
Date of signing
of the Collective	01/09/07	01/09/08
Agreement
$94 80	$98 4C	$102 40
The commission is eighty-five cents ($0 85) per case of 24 bottles for all sizes
e)	Position of deliveryman (Service Plus) at a daily rate of ten-(10) hours plus commission:
Date of signing
of the Collective	01/09/07	01/09/08
Agreement
$118.50	$123.00	$128.00
The commission is eighty-five cents ($0.85) per case of 24 bottles for all sizes.
f)	Merchandisers :
Date of signing
of the Collective	01/09/07	01/09/08
Agreement
$14 00	$14 0C	$14.0C
However, temporary merchandisers who held this position on December 1, 2006 will continue to receive the rate that they received on December 1 2006, as long as they maintain this status
Temporary employees (except students) on their probationary period - Outside Group
a)
b)
c)
Temporary employees with their Class I driver's license (except merchandisers): Date of signing
of the Collective	01/09/07	01/09/08
Agreement
$19.14	$19. V	$19.1-!
Temporary employees without their Class I driver's license (except merchandisers):
Date of signing of the Collective Agreement
$15 51
Merchandisers.
Date of signing of the Collective Agreement $10.00 to $12.00
01/09/07	01/09/08
$15 75	$15 7£
01/09/07	01/09/08
$10.00 to	$10.00 to
$12.0C	$12.0C
Students- Outside Group- Hourly rate:
For the duration of the present collective agreement, the hourly salary of a student will be between a minimum of ten dollars ($10.00) and a maximum of twelve dollars ($12.00) an hour.
Temporary employees (except students) who have completed their probationary period Inside Group:
Date of signing of the Collective
01/09/07
01/09/08
53
Agreement
$18.14	$18.5'	$19.Of
E. Temporary employees (except students) on probation - Inside Group: Date of signing
of the Collective	01/09/07	01/09/08
Agreement
$15.51	$15.75	$15.75
F. Students - Inside Group
Students are temporary employees working during the period between Victoria Day and Labour Day.
The hourly rate for students shall be between a minimum of ten dollars ($10.00) and a maximum of twelve dollars ($12.00) for the duration of the present Agreement.
If a temporary employee fills a job other than a production attendant job for a complete day of work or more, he/she receives a premium equivalent to an amount which represents the difference between the production attendant wage rate and the wage rate applicable to the job he/she is filling for each complete day worked in the said job.
WITH RESPECT TO ALL PROVISIONS CONTAINED IN THE FOUR SECTIONS OF THIS COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT, THE PARTIES HAVE SIGNED AT MONTREAL, THIS_ DAY OF APRIL 2007.
LOCAL 1999, TEAMSTERS, BREWERY, SOFT DRINK AND MISCELLANEOUS WORKERS UNION
PEPSI-BOTTLING GROUP (CANADA), CO.
Robert Bernard
Sylvain Charbonneau
Serge BerubS
Bernard Hamel
Jean Boisvert
Peter MacDonald
Jean Courchesne
Josee Monette
Patrick Dormoy
Andre Goyette
Lucien Noel
Martin Ste-Marie
Steve Totten
Andre Wilsey
54
Claude Roy
Marc Sabourin
Yvon Tessier
Giovanni Vitro
55
A P P E N D IX "1"
AUTHORIZATION TO DEDUCT UNION INITIATION FEES
I,	the undersigned,
Family Name
Given Name
Punch Clock Number
Address
hereby ask and authorize PEPSI BOTTLING GROUP (CANADA), CO. to deduct from my first pay cheque following the termination of my probationary period, the amount of the initiation fees certified by the Union, and to send such amount to Local 1999, Teamsters, Brewery, Soft Drink and Miscellaneous Workers Union, 9393 Edison street, Suite 100, Ville d’Anjou, Quebec, H1J 1T4.
DONE IN MONTREAL, QUEBEC
this__________200_.
Signed:______________
Witness:_____________
NOTE: Please complete this form in triplicate.
56
APPENDIX A
Excerpts from the Charter of Human Rights and Freedoms:
10. [Prohibited discrimination] Every person has a right to full and equal recognition and exercise of his human rights and Freedoms, without distinction, exclusion or preference based on race, colour, sex, pregnancy, sexual orientation, civil status, age except as provided by law, religion, political convictions, language, ethnic or national origin, social condition, a handicap or the use of any means to palliate a handicap.
[Ground for discrimination] Discrimination exists where such a distinction, exclusion or preference has the effect of nullifying or impairing such right.
10.1	[Prohibited harassment] No one may harass a person on the basis of any ground mentioned in section 10.
20. [Distinction based on non-discriminatory aptitudes] A distinction, exclusion or preference based on the aptitudes or qualifications required for an employment, or j ustified by the charitable, philanthropic, religious, political or educational nature of a non-profit institution or f an institution devoted exclusively to the well-being of an ethnic group, is deemed non-discriminatory.
20.1	[Non-discriminatory use] In an insurance or pension contract, a social benefits plan, a retirement, pension or insurance plan, or a public pension or public insurance plan, a distinction, exclusion or preference based on age, sex or civil status is deemed nondiscriminatory where the use thereof is warranted and the basis therefore is a risk determination factor based on actuarial data.
[State of health] In such contracts or plans, the use of health as a risk determination factor does not constitute discrimination within the meaning of section 10.
5
LETTER OF AGREEMENT #1
BETWEEN PEPSI BOTTLING GROUP (CANADA)
Hereafter referred to as:	the “Company”
AND:	TEAMSTERS, BREWERY, SOFT DRINK AND MISCELLANEOUS WORKERS UNION, LOCAL
1999
Hereafter referred to as:	the “Union”
WHEREAS on this day the parties have signed a new collective agreement;
WHEREAS there is a need to complete the said agreement with the present letter of agreement;
FOR THESE REASONS, THE PARTIES HAVE AGREED THAT:
1	In compliance with the provisions of the collective agreement, the seniority date for the persons listed below
is, for the purposesof the collective agreement, September 21, 1981:
1.	ANDRE BELLEMARE
2.	PAUL FRENETTE
However, the abovementioned employees can only be removed from their current positions by employees who have a hiring date with the Company that precedes theirs.
2.	Front line vacant executive positionsthat the Company wishes to fill will be posted in all establishmentsand for each group and employees wishing to apply can notify the personal and work relations director.
3.	The parties agree to maintain in effect the group insurance plan mentioned in clause 16.06 of the present collective agreement. However, if one of the parties were to present a proposal to the other to replace the said plan by a plan that provides equal or superior benefits for a lower cost, the parties agree to collaborate in making the change as soon as possible.
4	It is agreed that when a stationary machine mechanic who is asked to wear a pager receives a call from the
Company on his pager and there is a subsequent telephone conversation to check the status of equipment, he is therefore entitled to remuneration equivalent to one (1) hour of pay at his regular hourly wage.
5.	The provisions in clause 47.13 do not apply to the transportation of raw materials with the exception of sugar to any new transportation operation,
6.	As for the application of clause 47.10 b), it is agreed that the delivery of products will be limited to one case per flavour and that the commissions will be paid to the delivery person assigned to the territory.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, THE PARTIES HAVE SIGNED IN MONTREAL THIS________________TH DAYOF APRIL 2007.
TEAMSTERS, BREWERY, SOFT DRINK AND MISCELLANEOUS WORKERS’ UNION, LOCAL 1999	PEPSI BOTTLING GROUP (CANADA)
Robert Bernard	Sylvain Charbonneau
Serge Berube	Bernard Hamel
Jean Boisvert	Peter MacDonald
58
Jean Courchesne	Josee Monette
Lucien Noel	Martin Ste-Marie
Claude Roy	Steve Totten
Marc Sabourin	Andre Wilsey
Yvon Tessier	
Giovanni Vitro	
59
LETTER OF AGREEMENT NO. 2
BETWEEN PEPSI BOTTLING GROUP (CANADA), CO.
Hereinafter referred to as: the “Company”
AND.	LOCAL 1999, TEAMSTERS, BREWERY, SOFT DRINK AND MISCELLANEOUS WORKERS
UNION
Hereinafter referred to as: the “Union”
WHEREAS THE Company has introduced a telephone sales system with the intention of facilitating and promoting
the sale of its products.
NOW, THEREFORE, THE PARTIES AGREE AS FOLLOWS:
1	The individuals required to perform this work shall not be included in the bargaining unit covered by the present collective agreement,
2	An employee from the Outside Group who, due to an accident, sickness, or age can no longer accomplish his or her regular work can be eligible for one of these lobs, once there has been agreement between the parties with respect to the qualifications, working conditions and wages
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, THE PARTIES HAVE SIGNED IN MONTREAL, THIS DAY OF APRIL 2007.
LOCAL 1999, TEAMSTERS, BREWERY, SOFT DRINK AND MISCELLANEOUS WORKERS UNION	PEPSI BOTTLING GROUP (CANADA), CO.
Robert Bernard	Sylvain Charbonneau
Serge Berube	Bernard Hamel
Jean Boisvert	Peter MacDonald
Jean Courchesne	Josee Monette
Lucien Noel	Martin Ste-Marie
60
Claude Roy
Steve Totten
MarcSabourin
Andre Wilsey
Yvon Tessier
Giovanni Vitro
61
LETTER OF AGREEMENT NO. 3
BETWEEN:	PEPSI BOTTLING GROUP (CANADA), CO.
Hereinafter referred to as: the "Company"
AND	LOCAL 1999, TEAMSTERS, BREWERY, SOFT DRINK AND MISCELLANEOUS WORKERS
UNION
Hereinafter referred to as: the "Union"
WHEREAS the following serves to renewa letter of agreement dated 1976.
NOW, THEREFORE, THE PARTIES AGREE AS FOLLOWS:
1.	The position of housekeeping attendant is reserved for Mr. Marcel Ferland due to his physical disability, which prevents him from accepting another function within the bargaining unit;
2.	Mr. Marcel Ferland will remain in the function of housekeeping attendant so long as he is not bumped by another employee as he remains the youngest employee in his group at the Company's service.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, THE PARTIES HAVE SIGNED IN MONTREAL, THIS_DAY OF APRIL 2007
LOCAL 1999, TEAMSTERS, BREWERY, SOFT DRINK PEPSI BOTTLING GROUP (CANADA), CO. AND MISCELLANEOUSWORKERS UNION
Robert Bernard	Sylvain Charbonneau
Serge Berube	Bernard Hamel
Jean Boisvert	Peter MacDonald
Jean Courchesne	Josee Monette
Lucien Noel	Martin Ste-Marie
Claude Roy	Steve Totten
MarcSabourin	Andre Wilsey
62
Yvon Tessier
Giovanni Vitro
63
LETTER OF AGREEMENT NO. 4
BETWEEN:	PEPSI BOTTLING GROUP (CANADA), CO.
Hereinafter referred to as: the "Company"
AND:	LOCAL 1999, TEAMSTERS, BREWERY, SOFT DRINK AND MISCELLANEOUS WORKERS
UNION
Hereinafter referred to as: the "Union"
WHEREAS the parties have signed on this day a new Collective Agreement.
WHEREAS it is necessary to complete the said agreement with this letter of agreement, which updates the Letter of
Agreement No A of the 2000-2003 and 2003-2006 Collective Agreements between the parties,
THE PARTIES THEREFORE AGREE AS FOLLOWS:
1.	As part of its Sales Department restructuring, the classification of "Sales Representative" presently occupied by nine (9) employees shall be abolished no later than July 31, 2006, at which time any mention of this classification shall be struck from the collective agreement.
2.	For greater clarity, it is understood that since the departure of the "Sales Representatives" by virtue of this Letter of Agreement is a result of the function's abolition, clause 61.06 is not applicable.
3.	Furthermore,the Union accepts that the personnel of the Company Sales Departmentother than the Merchandisersand Marketing Coordinators is not and shall not be concerned by its accreditationsand collective agreements and that the accomplishment by these employees of their tasks, even if they are similar or identical to certain functions carried out by unionized employees, violates no provisions of the collective agreement
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, THE PARTIES HAVE SIGNED IN MONTREAL,ON THIS   DAY OF APRIL 2007.
LOCAL 1999, TEAMSTERS QUEBEC	PEPSI BOTTLING GROUP (CANADA), CO.
Robert Bernard	Sylvain Charbonneau
Serge Berube	Bernard Hamel
Jean Boisvert	Peter MacDonald
Jean Courchesne	Josee Monette
Noel	Martin Ste-Marie
64
Claude Roy
Steve Totten
Marc Sabourin
Andre Wilsey
Yvon Tessier
Giovanni Vitro
65
LETTER OF AGREEMENT NO. 5
BETWEEN. PEPSI BOTTLING GROUP (CANADA), CO.
Hereinafter referred to as the "Company"
AND	LOCAL 1999, TEAMSTERS, BREWERY, SOFT DRINK AND MISCELLANEOUS WORKERS
UNION
Hereinafter referred to as: the "Union"
WHEREAS the company intends using, for the duration of the present agreement, the home base concept for
employees working as outside technicians;
WHEREAS the Company shall nevertheless use the services of outside technicians whose home base shall be the
Company's establishment;
WHEREAS the company may decide to modify the use of the home base concept depending on operations
requirements or in the interest of customer service,
THE PARTIES THEREFORE AGREE AS FOLLOWS:
1	The Company may at any time abolish, reduce, increase or modify its use of the home base concept
2	For the purpose of calculating the regular workweek for outside technicians working on the home base concept, excluding the meal period, the workday shall begin when the employee starts working with the first customer for the day and shall end when the employee stops working with the last customer for the same day
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, THE PARTIES HAVE SIGNED IN MONTREAL, THIS______________DAYOF APRIL 2007
66
LOCAL 1999, TEAMSTERS, BREWERY, SOFT DRINK PEPSI BOTTLING GROUP (CANADA), CO. AND MISCELLANEOUS WORKERS UNION
Robert Bernard	Sylvain Charbonneau
Serge Berube	Bernard Hamel
Jean Boisvert	Peter MacDonald
Jean Courchesne	Josee Monette
Lucien Noel	Martin Ste-Marie
Claude Roy	Steve Totten
MarcSabourin	Andre Wilsey
Yvon Tessier	
Giovanni Vitro	
67
LETTER OF AGREEMENT NO. 6
BETWEEN:	PEPSI BOTTLING GROUP (CANADA), CO.
Hereinafter referred to as: the "Company"
AND	LOCAL 1999, TEAMSTERS, BREWERY, SOFT DRINK AND MISCELLANEOUS WORKERS
UNION
Hereinafter referred to as the "Union"
WHEREAS the Company may use the services cf a versatile deliveryman on an afternoon route;
WHEREAS it is necessary to provide for special conditions applying to the said deliveryman;
THE PARTIES THEREFORE AGREE AS FOLLOWS:
1.	It is understood that the versatile deliveryman may be required to make all types of deliveries, including bulk deliveries, conventional deliveries, retrieval and marketing emergencies, the whole in accordance with the criteria mentioned in article 47.09 a).
2.	The versatile deliveryman shall be paid at the same salary rate as the bulk deliveryman.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, THE PARTIES HAVE SIGNED IN MONTREAL THIS_______DAY OF APRIL 2007.
LOCAL 1999, TEAMSTERS, BREWERY, SOFT DRINK PEPSI BOTTLING GROUP (CANADA), CO.
AND MISCELLANEOUS WORKERS UNION
Robert Bernard	Sylvain Charbonneau	
Serge Berube	Bernard Hamel	
Jean Boisvert	Peter MacDonald	
Jean Courchesne	Josee Monette	68
Lucien Noel	Martin Ste-Marie
Claude Roy	Steve Totten
MarcSabourin	Andre Wilsey
Yvon Tessier	
Giovanni Vitro	
69
LETTER OF AGREEMENT NO. 7
BETWEEN	PEPSI BOTTLING GROUP (CANADA), CO.
(Hereinafter referred to as the "Company")
AND:	TEAMSTERS QUEBEC, LOCAL 1999
(Hereinafter referred to as the "Union")
D.L.C
THE PARTIES AGREE AS FOLLOWS:
Every February, the parties will meet to discuss the D.L.C. personnel needs for the summer period, as well as their training.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, THE PARTIES HAVE SIGNED IN MONTREAL, THIS_______DAY OF JANUARY 2004
LOCAL 1999, TEAMSTERS, BREWERY, SOFT DRINK AND MISCELLANEOUS WORKERS UNION	PEPSI BOTTLING GROUP (CANADA), CO.
Robert Bernard	Sylvain Charbonneau
Serge Berube	Bernard Hamel
Jean Boisvert	Peter MacDonald
Jean Courchesne	Josee Monette
Patrick Dormoy	Martin Ste-Marie
Andre Goyette	Steve Totten
Noel	Andre Wilsey
70
Claude Roy
MarcSabourin
Yvon Tessier
Giovanni Vitro
T1
LETTER OF AGREEMENT NO. 8
BETWEEN PEPSI BOTTLING GROUP (CANADA), CO.
Hereinafter referred to as' the “Company"
AND	LOCAL 1999, TEAMSTERS, BREWERY, SOFT DRINK AND MISCELLANEOUS WORKERS
UNION
Hereinafter referred to as the “Union"
STERILIZATION DEPARTMENT
Employees trained as sterilization and specialized cleaning attendants working on the night and day shifts may not be bumped by other employees from the Inside Group and may not bump production employees
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, THE PARTIES HAVE SIGNED AT MONTREAL, THIS_DAY OF APRIL 2007.
LOCAL 1999, TEAMSTERS, BREWERY, SOFT DRINK AND MISCELLANEOUS WORKERS UNION	PEPSI BOTTLING GROUP (CANADA), CO.
Robert Bernard	Sylvain Charbonneau
Serge Berube	Bernard Hamel
Jean Boisvert	Peter MacDonald
Jean Courchesne	Josee Monette
Noel	Martin Ste-Marie
Claude Roy	Steve Totten
MarcSabourin	Andre Wilsey
Yvon Tessier
Giovanni Vitro
73
LETTER OF AGREEMENT NO. 9
BETWEEN PEPSI BOTTLING GROUP (CANADA), CO.
(hereinafter referred to as the "Company")
AND:	LOCAL 1999, TEAMSTERS, BREWERY, SOFT DRINK AND MISCELLANEOUS WORKERS
UNION
(hereinafter referred to as the "Union")
WHEREAS the parties have signed on this day a new Collective Agreement;
WHEREAS it is necessary to complete the said Collective Agreement with the present letter of agreement;
THE PARTIES THEREFORE AGREE AS FOLLOWS:
]. Upon conclusion of the 2003-2006 Collective Agreement, the Company agreed to create one (1) or two (2) additional transportation positions at its Ottawa establishment.
2.	However, the parties acknowledge that any decision relating to transportation at the Ottawa establishment, or any other establishment outside of Montreal, is the competency of the said establishment and not of the Montreal establishment. and is not subject to the grievance procedure
3.	The Company agrees to meet with the Union after the signing of the Collective Agreement in order to consider the possibility of negotiating an alternative remuneration for transport drivers which would be competitive with industry standards and would thus enable increased usage of the Company's transport drivers
INWITNESS WHEREOF, THE PARTIES HAVE SIGNED AT MONTREAL, this--------------day of APRIL 2007
LOCAL 1999, TEAMSTERS, BREWERY, SOFT DRINK AND MISCELLANEOUSWORKERS UNION	PEPSI BOTTLING GROUP (CANADA), CO.
Robert Bernard	Sylvain Charbonneau
Serge Berube	Bernard Hamel
Jean Boisvert	Peter MacDonald
Jean Courchesne	Josee Monette
Noel	Martin Ste-Marie
74
Claude Roy
Steve Totten
MarcSabourin
Andre Wilsey
Yvon Tessier
Giovanni Vitro
75
LETTER OF AGREEMENT NO. 10
BETWEEN:	PEPSI BOTTLING GROUP (CANADA), CO.
Hereinafter referred to as: the “Company”
AND.	LOCAL 1999, TEAMSTERS, BREWERY, SOFT DRINK AND MISCELLANEOUS WORKERS
UNION
Hereinafter referred to as: the “Union”
WHEREAS the parties have agreed during the conclusion of the 2003-2006 Collective Agreement to add the classification of Deliveryman - Retrieval to the new collective agreement,
THE PARTIES THEREFORE AGREE AS FOLLOWS:
1	The addition of this new classification does not modify the scope of the Collective Agreement, therefore if
legislative or regulatory modifications are made to the current retrieval system, the Company may make the changes it deems necessary to its operations
IN WITNESS WHEREOF. THE PARTIES HAVE SIGNED AT MONTREAL, THIS________________DAY OF APRIL 2007
LOCAL 1999, TEAMSTERS, BREWERY, SOFT DRINK PEPSI BOTTLING GROUP (CANADA), CO. AND MISCELLANEOUS WORKERS UNION
Robert Bernard	Sylvain Charbonneau
Serge Berube	Bernard Hamel
Jean Boisvert	Peter MacDonald
Jean Courchesne	Josee Monette
Noel	Martin Ste-Marie
Claude Roy	Steve Totten
Marc Sabourin	Andre Wilsey
Yvon Tessier
Giovanni Vitro
Page 10:[1] Deleted	mayotte
First-aid kits shall be placed at all necessary locations within the establishments.
2009-11-26 2:02 PM
Page
	Date of sianina of Collective Agreement	01/09/07	01/09/08
			
Service Plus Delivery Man (10 hours)	$270.50	$275.00	$280.00
Service Plus Delivery Man (8 hours)	$216.40	$220.00	$224.00
schedule.			