)
LABOUR AGREEMENT
between
MOOSEHEAD BREWERIES LIMITED . Saint John, N.B.
and
LOCAL 362 OF THE CANADIAN UNION OF UNITED BREWERY, FLOUR, CEREAL, SOFT DRINK & DISTILLERY WORKERS
effective
January 1st, 1980 - December 31st, 1982
004^01^
iTHiS PHOTOtCPY IS P?,3ViD”!1 PCfl	PUBPOS-tS
from	to dr cu,-:R'i-tr. to ens:j ?e
ACCURACY, iY r,:jr.	v ydcy;.; zz !?-; ivu.cr YD
t:-;y iu.v:) v: ■:	a..:y. v ,	; peer
i:.:Kv;'i A ppc py;c .::	,n a-s
cl;;:;;,.peers	c y .	:>£
LRUs? THT'j/Y, :L :y'y .LA DSI SWAcSSiS AUX PA;‘7 i c J	.TAWigS Eg LA ZOM iXTlOHr	■
V • • 1
/0 9 ^	o/O.	o/
-109 S ooi	6/
oo
AGREEMENT made this **/*? day of 2~*~t Nineteen Hundred and Erghty
BETWEEN
MOOSEHEAD BREWERIES LIMITED, hereinafter called ’’the Company",
OF THE FIRST PART
AND
LOCAL 362 OF THE CANADIAN UNION OF UNITED BREWERY, FLOUR, CEREAL, SOFT DRINK & DISTILLERY WORKERS, hereinafter called "the Union”,
OF THE SECOND PART
PURPOSE
In recognition of their mutual interests, this Agreement is entered into for the purpose of recording the hours, wage rates and terms or conditions of employment of the Company's employees; to set up the means for settling amicably any differences or griev- . ances which may possibly arise and for the general purpose of promoting and improving industrial relations between the Company and the Union.
RECOGNITION
1.01	The Company recognizes that the Union has been duly certified by the Labour Relations Board as sole representative to bargain with the Company for all employees, except hereinafter mentioned in 1.03 with respect to wages, rates of pay, hours,
and terms or conditions of employment during the life of this Agreement and that it has all the rights inherent to such certification.
1.02	The Company agrees that the Union can conduct the following activities on Company time:
(a)	Whai the Grievance Committee, Officers or Stewards are called upon by Management of the Company to meet with them.
(b)	When the Grievance Committee, Officers or Stewards,
are called upon by the terms of this Agreement to handle a grievance or other matters relating to the administration of this Agreement, provided that prior permission of the supervisor, foreman or department head concerned is secured. Such prior permission shall not be unreasonably withheld.
The term "employee" as used in this agreement shall not include, office staff, salesmen, public relations personnel, laboratory technicians, chief engineer, watchmen, supervisors, and foremen and those above the ranks of supervisors or foremen.
1.04	(a) Ali work coming within the jurisdiction of the bargaining
unir shall be reserved for employees in the bargaining unit. Notwithstanding anything contained in this Agreement, plant maintenance work may be contracted out, as in the past, so long as it does riot result: in layoffs. Outside truck drivers and helpers shall be confined to the plant loading area. The Company will post on the bulletin boards the names of the recognized supervisors in each department. Foreman arid above that rank shall not perform the work of the bargaining unit except in cases of emergency and for training and instructing purposes. Supervisory staff below the rank of foreman will be classified and shall be members of the bargaining unit and shall perform work within the bargaining unit. Emergency situations shall apply in the event production and/or process work is endangered or in the case of temporary relief, but not where employees are available either on their regular shift or overtime and not otherwise engaged and where delay in obtaining them will not contribute to the endangering of production and/or process work. Temporary relief shall also include relieving an employee for personal reasons.
(b)	The Company shall recognize Shop Stewards appointed by the Union as follows:
One to represent the Bottling Shop (one per shift)
One to represent the Brew House
One to represent the Warehouse and Empty Bottle Shed One to represent the Engineers and Maintenance Staff
(c)	From time to time the Company may appoint temporary charge hands, who while working with a crew of ohe or more employees, are specifically charged with the responsibility for the quality and/or the quantity of work performed by such crew, provided however that the temporary charge hand only performs work within the jurisdiction of the Bargaining Unit. Such temporary charge hand shall. . be a member of the Bargaining Unit and shall be paid thirty cents (30£) per hour above the highest rate being paid to employees under his direction or his classification rate, whichever is higher, while performing the duties of the charge hand.
1-05 The Company agrees that there shall be no night work scheduled for the plant on the regular monthly meeting night of the Union, unless a definite production emergency arises.
Labour-Management meetings will be held during the third week of each month or a time mutually agreed upon by the Company and the Union.
RESERVATIONS TO MANAGEMENT
2.01	The Union acknowledges that It is the exclusive function
of the Company to:
(a)	maintain order, discipline and efficiency.
(b)	hire, discharge, transfer, promote, demote or discipline employees, provided that a claim that an employee has been discharged, transferred, demoted or disciplined without just cause may be dealt with as hereinafter provided.
(c)	generally ta manage the industrial enterprise in which the Company is engaged and without restricting the generality of the foregoing to determine the products and by-products to be manufactured, processed, packaged, shipped and distributed, the methods of manufacturing, processing, packaging, shipping and distribution, the sources, quantities and kinds of ingredients, supplies, and other materials used in the manufacturing, processing and packaging of the Company's products and by-products, the schedules of manufacturing, processing, packaging, shipping and distribution and the kinds and locations
of machinery, equipment and tools used throughout the Company's operations.
2.02	The Management further reserves the right to make rules and regulations to be observed by the employees, and these rules shall not be inconsistent with the terms or spirit of this Agreement.
2.03	it is understood that in exercising these functions the Company must conform to all other clauses of this Agreement. When an employee is reprimanded, disciplined, suspended or discharged he will be informed of his right that he may be accompanied by a Union representative. The Union will be given, in writing, two (2) copies, the reasons for such action within forty-eight hours (Saturdays, Sundays and holidays excluded).
WORKING HOURS
3.01	For employees engaged in day work, eight (8) hours per
day, five (5) days a week, Monday to Friday, shall constitute the forty (40) hour work week.
j2 (a) For the purpose of establishing the engine room employees
Saturday and Sunday, they shal.L work eight (8) hours a shift and five (5) shift s in each calendar week, with the employee's first day off being considered his recognized Saturday and-his second day off his recognized Sunday.
(b)	For employees engaged in shift work, five (5) consecutive shifts of eight (8) hours shall constitute the forty (40) houx work week. If a sixth consecutive day is worked, counting from the first of his regular scheduled days, the day will be paid at the rate of time and one-half, and if a seventh consecutive day
is worked, counting from the first day of his regular scheduled days, that day will be paid for at the rate of double time.
(c)	In the event of an employee being transferred to a higher or similar paid job, relieving for vacations, and the first days worked in the week connect with the last days worked in the preceding week, those
days shall not be considered overtime. But this employee shall have two days off in this relieving week with the first day off his recognized Saturday and the second day off his recognized Sunday. If worked, these days shall be paid for at: the appropriate overtime rate.
3.03	A break period of fifteen (15) minutes duration shall be granted to each employee approximately half way through the first half of tne shift and approximately half way through the Last half of the shift and these break periods will not be considered as an employee's lunch period or part: of his lunch period. Such breaks shall be from the time the employee leaves his job to the time he returns
to his job. Any change in present: practice by brewhouse personnel, truck drivers or stationary engineers will be by mutual agreement.
3.04	An employee after completing his normal 8 hour shift and who is required to work overtime which is expected to be in excess of two hours, and is unable to be given a lunch period prior to the beginning of overtime, shall be allowed ' a fifteen minute break period prior to commencing the overtime and an additional fifteen minutes prior to the commencement of an additional period of overtime which is expected to be in excess of two hours.
3.0,5 A paid lunch period of thirty (30) minutes shall be granted to all employees approximately half-way through those employees regularly scheduled shift, that is 30 minutes from the time they leave their job until they return to it. Relief for the 30 minute lunch period defined may be provided by relief personnel or accomplished on a start-stop basis. Brewhouse and engine room personnel will continue their present practice of relief.
PLANT HOLIDAYS
4.01	New Year's Day Good Friday Easter Monday Victoria Day Dominion Day New Brunswick Day
Labour Day Thanksgiving Day Remembrance DAy Christmas Day Boxing Day
An additional (12th) holiday will be granted if declared
by the Provincial or Federal Governments.
4.02	(a) The above are considered plant holidays for which
employees will be paid without having to work. If any of the recognized holidays fall on a Sunday they will be held on the following Monday.
(b)	If any of the recognized plant holidays fall on a
Saturday, employees will receive, by mutual agreement, another day off as the holiday. The holiday shall he rescheduled within thirty (30) days of the occurrence of the holiday. When another day off i s scheduled as the holiday, such scheduled day off shall be considered as the holiday for all employees and for all purposes of the Agreement.
4.03	To be eligible for holiday pay, employees must have worked forty-five (45) working days prior to the holiday, also the employee must: have worked or have been available for work the scheduled working day preceding the holiday and the scheduled working day immediately following the holiday unless prior permission has been received. The Company will consider legitimate sLckness.
4.04	Any employee required to work on any of the aforementioned holidays shall be paid at the rate of double time for the first eight hours worked and double time and one-half for hours worked thereafter. This pay shall be in addition
to the holiday pay to which he is entitled under Article 4.03. In the event of a plant holiday that is received by the rest of the plant falling on a rotating day off for those engaged in continuous process work, they will receive twelve (12) hours pay at straight time rate. In the event that any of the recognized plant holidays fall within an employee's annual vacation period, such employee shall receive an extra day's holiday or pay in lieu of such day.
4.05	An employee required to work on a plant holiday for less than a full eight (8) hours will receive pay for the holiday plus a minimum of four (4) hours of work or four (4) hours pay at his applicable overtime rate.
OVERTIME
5.01	(a) All time worked by hourly rated employees in excess
of eight (8) hours per day and/or forty (40) hours per week shall be paid at the rate of time and one-half, except for where Section 5.01 (b) shall apply. All work performed on a Saturday or a recognized Saturday shall be paid at the rate of time and one-half. All work performed on a Sunday or a recognized Sunday will be paid at the rate of double time.
(b)	Highway drivers [Tractor Trailer) shall have a 40 hour work week between Monday and Friday. In this period they may be scheduled 4 days and ten hours a day or 5 days at 8 hours a day. When a tractor trailer driver is working 10 hour days he will be paid time and one-half for the first three hours in excess of the first 10 hours and double time for hours worked thereafter. When they work 5 days and 8 hours a day, overtime will be paid on the same basis as set out in Article 5.04.
The driver will be advised the previous week if he will be working on a four or five day week in the following week. He will be paid ten (10) hours pay at straight: time rate if eligible for sick pay and scheduled fox four (4) days In the week he is side.
5.02	(a) When overtime is to be worked, it shall be distributed
as evenly as possible among regular employees within the department who are capable of performing the work required. Priority will be given next. to regular employees from other departments who request ta fill the job vacancies, and who are capable of performing the job. Overtime work shall be voluntary, provided that an employee can be replaced by an employee capable of doing the job. If a dispute arises as to who will work the overtime it is agreed that the adequate junior employee involved will be required ta work. Anyone i	performing the overtime work will work at the job
rate.
(b)	Except in an emergency or other unforeseen circumstances, ' notice shall be given the previous' day, of required overtime the following day. This notice will be extended to two days (i.e. on Thursday) in the event Saturday overtime is required.
(c)	Employees who are required to work as much as two
(2)	hours overtime past their regular shift, and have not been notified the previous day, and are not able to be given time off for their meal shall be granted a meal allowance of three dollars ($3.00).
5.04
5.05
5.06
5.07 6.01
Any employee who is called back to work in any emergency at any time outside his normal working hours, that is to say, any unscheduled and unforeseen work, shall be free to leave his job when the emergency is over, but shall nevertheless receive a minimum of four (4) hours pay at: his applicable overtime rate.
This clause does not apply to overtime which is attached to an employee's shift.
In the event of an employee working in excess of eight (8) hours in any one day at the overtime rate of time and one-half, this rate will apply to the first three (3) hours in excess of the regular eight (8) hours, after which double time rates will apply.
In the event of an employee working on a Saturday or a recognized Saturday, he shall be paid time and one-half for the first eight: (8) hours and double time for all time worked in excess of the eight. (8) hours in the same day.
If an employee reports for work on a scheduled shift without having been informed previously not to report, unless his failure to receive notice not to report is due to absence without: just cause from his shift, and less than four (4) hours work is available for him, he shall be given four (4) hours pay notwithstanding.
It shall be the responsibility of employees who have been absent from work because of vacation, sickness or any other reason to check with the Company prior to returning to work as to the time and shift they will be reporting, for the following scheduled day of work.
VACATIONS
It is agreed that all employees covered by this Agreement are entitled to vacation with pay, thus:
(a)	If seniority is reached by June 30 in a year - one
week of vacation
If seniority is reached after June 30 in a year, the greater of 47= or a cash amount equivalent to one week of vacation pro-rated according to the period of time worked during that year.
(b)	Having continuous service with the Company:
One year - two (2) weeks of vacation Three? years - three (3) weeks of vacation Eight years - four (4) weeks of vacation Fifteen years - five (5) weeks of vacation Twenty years - six (6) weeks of vacation Twenty-five years - seven (7) weeks of vacation
(a)	To be eligible for vacations employees must have worked at least 44 weeks during their qualifying year and to have been available for work, if required, except that time lost due to accidents ih the performance of their duties or a bonafide sickness shall not be counted so as to deprive an employee from obtaining credit for the purpose of qualifying for vacation.
(b)	If as a result of layoff an employee (who would otherwise have qualified) being unable to qualify because of the 44 week requirement in Section 6.02 (a) then the 44 week requirement shall be reduced in such cases for purposes of qualification for vacation pay, by the amount necessary to qualify but not to a lower requirement than 33 weeks. In the case of an employee with three (3) or more years' seniority the forty-four (44) week requirement shall be reduced for purposes of qualification for vacation pay by the amount necessary to qualify but not to a lower requirement than twenty-six (26) weeks.
6.03	(a) Payment for vacation shall be based on an employee's
weekly earnings for each week's vacation, exclusive of overtime.
(b)	Once an employee is on vacation, he shall not be subject
to recall, except with mutual consent.
6.04	(a) Suitable dates for vacation shall be arranged mutually
between the employees and their foreman, with the interest of both the employee and his department taken into consideration. With triis in mind preference will be given to the senior man.
(b)	In the event that an employee becomes ill or is injured after having commenced his vacation, he shall at that point have the remainder of his vacation cancelled
for that period and rescheduled at a later date. In order to implement this clause the employee must first contact his supervisor immediately, if he becomes ill or is injured, and he must be able to meet the weekly indemnity requirements.
(c)	Summer vacation shall be limited to two consecutive weeks which will be scheduled in a fourteen (14) week period to include the 2nd week in June and the 2nd Week in September.
(d) Additional weeks of vacation for employees with three (3) or more years of service shall be taken outside the regular summer vacation period and a t the discretion of management.
(e) In order to enable all employees ta have an opportunity
to arrange their vacation in an orderly fashion, the
following procedure will be followed:
1)	Notice to be posted requiring employees to file their choice of dates. Such notices shall be posted on or before January 31st.
2)	Each employee shall be given until March 31st to submit his choice of dates for his vacation.
3)	if the employee has not submitted his choice of dates by March 31st he loses any preference he may have had due to his seniority. The employee should submit his choice of dates as soon as possible to facilitate the preparation of the vacation schedule.
€.05 "Qualifying Year" under this heading "Vacation" shall in each year for each employee be the anniversary date of his employment, it being understood that the principle of this clause is that a person earns his vacation in the qualifying year and is entitled to it in the following year.
If a person’s employment is terminated and he has not taken his vacation, he is entitled to his vacation pay earned in the qualifying year and in addition, he shall be entitled to receive a percentage of his pay depending on the amount of vacation to which he is entitled from the end of his qualifying year to the date of termination; the percentage shall be as follows:
(a)	In the case of an employee entitled to one or two
weeks of vacation, 4%.
(b)	In the case of an employee who is entitled to three weeks of vacation, 6%.
(c)	In the case of an employee who is entitled to four weeks of vacation, 8%.
(d)	In the case of an employee who is entitled to five weeks of vacation, 10%.
(e)	In the case of an employee who is entitled to six weeks of vacation, 12%.
(f)	In the case of an employee who is entitled to seven weeks of vacation, 14%..
The above shall apply to all employees except: for those
discharged for theft: of Company property.
VACATION BONUS
o. 06
7.01
7.02
7.03
Regular employees with three (3) years or more Seniority shall receive a vacation bonus payable in cash equal to twenty percent (20%) of such emplolyee's normal vacation payment. This bonus to be paid as one payment at the time of the employee's summer vacation.
WAGES
The wage rates for all regular employees agreed to by the Company and the Union will be those rates established by this Labour Agreement dated the /T^day of	> 1980
and which became effective January 1st, 1980/ The wage rate after the probation period for employees will be that as shown in Appendix "A".
(a)	The minimum hiring rate for probationary and temporary • employees shall be that as shown in Appendix "A".
Probationary and temporary employees shall not come under any welfare plans, such as the pension plan, the insurance plan, the medical plan or the sick pay plan.
Probationary Tradesmen will be paid ten cents (10£) per hour less than their classification rate when hired and until they become a regular employee.
(b)	Working hours and wage rate of Apprentices in Boiler Room to be set according to the regulations of the Apprenticeship Branch of the Department of Labour until such time as said apprentices have written and acquired a Fourth Class Engineer's License, at which time hours and hourly wage rate to coincide with rate and hours of engineer, providing a vacancy exists as engineer.
(c)	The Company will place regular employees on skilled jobs prior to assigning temporary employees to the job when regular employees are able and willing to
do the job and are not already employed in an equally-paid skilled position.
All employees shall be subject to the following provisions:
(a)	Employees may be transferred temporarily or permanently from one position or department to another. No transfer shall involve any loss of seniority, nor shall the employee suffer any decrease in his wage rate, providing that such transfer is not in the nature of a demotion.
(b)	Employees who are temporarily transferred to a higher rated job and not training under supervision, shall continue to be paid their usual rate unless the transfer continues for one or more working days, in which case they shall be paid the higher rate for all hours worked during the day, or for more than twenty (20) hours
in week, in which case they shall be paid the higher rate for the job, €or a minimum of forty (40) hours during the week. Any employee transferred to a lower rated job for the convenience of the Company shall not have his regular rate reduced.
(c)	Employees who are promoted and are later found to be unfit for the job, for reason of health or any other reason shall revert to the previous occupation and rate thereof.
(d)	If, as a result of a technological change in the Company's operation an employee is assigned to a job having
a lower rate of pay than the rate of pay he formerly received, he shall continue to be paid at his former rate of pay until the job rate for his new classification equals his former rate.
SHIFT PREMIUM
8-01	(a) Shift premiums shall be paid for all hours worked on
shifts scheduled to start between 9:30 a.m. and 6:00 p.m.,
called the afternoon shift, and for all hours worked
on shifts scheduled to start between 6:00 p.m. and
6:00 a.m., called the night shifL. Shift premiums	~c
shall be as follows: Effective Jxata 1, 1980 the afternoonC^Z-^'
shift: premium payable shall be 450 per hour and the
midnight shift premium 550 per hour. Effective January 1,
1981 the afternoon shift premium shall be 450 per hour and the midnight shift premium payable shall he 600 per hour. Effective January 1, 1982 trie afternoon shift premium payable shall be 500 per hour and the midnight shift premium payable shall be 650 per hour.
(b)	Hourly rates contained in schedule of wages of this Agreement shall be paid for all regular or day shift work. These shift premiums constitute separate fixed items of pay and shall not be included in basic rates for the calculation of overtime or premium payments, neither shall they be included in the calculation of pay for legal holidays not worked.
8.02	Any job created in the bargaining unit during the life
of this Agreement, which is not covered by a wage classification set out herein, will be classified and a job rate set at a meeting held between the Company and the Union.
In the event of failure to agree on a rate, the Company may set the rate and if the Union does not agree with the rate that is set, then it may proceed to arbitration for resolution of the matter. The decision of the Board, if in favour of the Union, will be retroactive to the date of commencement of the new job. Nevertheless, the rate set shall not be less than the rate for general labour.
SENIORITY
8.03	(a) Seniority shall be defined as the length of an employee's
service with the Company calculated as the elapsed time from the day that the employee was first hired, unless his seniority was broken. In the event that seniority was broken for any of the following reasons in Section 8.04 seniority shall date from the time the employee returned to work following the last break in his seniority.
(b) A probationary employee is one who has been hired with a view to his becoming a regular employee. He will have obtained seniority after he has worked ninety (90) working days, after which time he w i 11 be eligible for pension and welfare benefits. Such employees da not have any seniority tights and their names will not appear on seniority Lists during their period of probation.
(c) A regular employee is one who (i) has actually worked for a period in excess of one hundred and thirty-two (132) working days in a twelve month period as a temporary employee, or (ii) has actually worked in excess of
ninety (90) working days as a probationary employee. Thereafter, the seniority of a regular employee shall be determined by length of service computed in years, months, and days from the commencement of his last employment with the Company.
(d)	A 'temporary employee is one who has. been hired for _ seasonal peak periods, vacation and sick relief, and ' short'term temporary reguirements and emergency situations. After he has actually worked one hundred and thirty-two (132) working days in a twelve (12) month period from his starting date he will be classified
as a regular employee and placed upon the seniority list.. His seniority shall be determined thereafter i by length of service computed in years,, months and ' days from the commencement of his last employment with the Company.	(this pkotojopy is psovjcen res sfszasch purposes
FROM INFORM*} SCN G -LUYIP ro Bt CURRENT. TO EKSUR2 ACCURACY, IT Is	THAT RECOURSE 3>: U.'.S,'. TO
Tit- to t;-::	;w. r. .tte photoa pe-jt
rvtvm;•rhs .:: -."w; tv coMntMT o.s (!E«* sc.tUiUw:	: i;r A jv.;s. tour svetmw-ri oe
.	leur d;actitg:;a, :i. est	op. vaxitssm aux
PARTIES S.GNATAIRES D£ LA CONVENTION,
Seniority shall be considered broken:
(a)	If an employee quits the job voluntarily or ventures into other permanent employment.
(b)	If an employee is discharged for cause, not reversed by Grievance procedure.
(c)	If'an employee has been laid off and fails to report for work within seven (7) days after written notice to report to work has been mailed to his last address registered with tho Company, provided that when an employee is recalled to work and does not report when required, the Company may recall the next employee
in line, but he is subject to being displaced if the first employee recalled does report: within seven (7) days. Such notice shall be by registered mail.
(d)	An employee shall cease to have seniority if he has
been laid off for a period of twelve consecutive months or longer, If an employee has ten (10) years or more seniority lay off period will be adjusted to entitlement ■i	under the Guaranteed Wage Plan.
(e)	If an employee is absent from work for three (3) consecutive days without having notified the Company and received permission to be absent in advance, where that is possible.
8.05	Seniority shall not be considered broken:
(a)	If an employee is granted leave of absence, provided such leave of absence does not exceed' six (6; months. The Company shall notify the Secretary of the Union in writing of ail leaves of absences granted.
(b)	If an employee is absent from work due to layoff, provided he is available for work on being recalled in order of his seniority.
(c)	If an employee is absent from wdrk due to certified sickness or injury.
(d)	Seasonal employees’ seniority shall not affect regular employees' seniority - i.e. in case of a dispute, a regular employee’s seniority shall be considered first.
8.06	The Company shall maintain and post a seniority list on the plant bulletin"boards. Such lists shall be subject to review of the Union Shop Committee. Any irregularities in the list not consistent with the seniority principles defined in this Agreement shall be corrected by the parties hereto within thirty (30) days. AL1 revised seniority lists shall be supplied to the Union Shop Committee.
j.07 Seniority shall apply in the event of it becoming necessary to reduce staff, All layoffs shall be made impartially and in strict order of seniority, only if the senior employee is able and willing to efficiently perform the work required of him. Rehiring after layoff shall be in reverse order of layoff with the last man laid off being the first rehired and so on.
8.08	(a) If "an opportunity for promotion, preferred job or
job training occurs in the plant, notice of such position ' shall be posted on the same day for ten (10) days
on the bulletin boards of the Company, and all employees of the Company shall have an opportunity to apply for such position. All particulars of such jobs shall be contained in such notice.
(b)	The names of the applicants shall be posted on the bulletin board. The Union will be notified of the employee selected and will be advised of the date on which
he will commence his training. His training to start within two (2) months of his selection.
(c)	The Company may fill any position temporarily, either before or after posting, but shall not be obligated
J to try out all applicants. If a sufficiently qualified person cannot be obtained from the existing employees of the Company, the Company may employ a new employee from outside the bargaining unit.
(d)	The Company agrees to make such promotions on the basis of ability, seniority and, providing the ability of the applicants is equal, seniority shall apply.
8.09	When the Company requires an employee to train for a job where at that time there is no vacancy, this opportunity to train will be pasted in the same manner as a vacancy would be. The Company agrees to select such trainee on the same basis on which promotions are made.
8.10	All employees on the Union Executive, and Shop Stewards designated by the Union in each department shall be exempt from temporary layoffs as long as there is work in their respective departments which they can perform satisfactorily.
8.11	Upon request by the Union at Union-Management meetings, the Company will give a progress report on all new employees after two months employment.
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
9.01	In the event of any dispute, or alleged dispute, hereinafter called the grievance, concerning an alleged violation or misinterpretation of this Agreement, the subscribing parties agree to abide by the following procedure for arriving at a fair and binding settlement thereof:
(a)	Whoever the grievor or grievors might be they may first contact the Shop Steward and allow the Shop Steward
or Grievance Committee-man with or without the aggrieved,. to take up the matter with the foreman concerned in the very first step, and the foreman shall be bound to render'a decision within twenty-four (24) hours of having the matter placed before him.
(b)	If the employee 'or the majority of the employees (if more than one is involved) are not satisfied with the decision of the foreman, he, or they, may appeal
to the Grievance Committee who shall present the grievance to the Personnel Manager, or his designated represenla-tive within f.orty-eight (48) hours who in turn must meet them and render a decision within forty-eight (48) hours.
(c)	If the employee, or the majority of the employees,
(if more than one is involved) are not ' satisfied with the decision of the Personnel Manager, or his designated representative, he or they, may appeal to the Company
who shall grant them a fair hearing within four (4) working days, and before whom he, or they, shall be represented by the Grievance Committee, of the Union and a representative of the Union's choice and a decision shall be rendered within forty-eight (48) hours.
(d)	In the event that no settlement can be reached between the Union,and the Company in (a), (b), and (c), the dispute will then be referred to an Arbitration Board within twelve (12) days constituted in the following manner. The Union shall select one (1) .representative and the Company shall select (1) representative. Either party to this agreement shall appoint its representative to such a Board within'seven (7) clear days after notice by registered mail has been received notifying
of the appointment of the representative of the other party. Should these two representatives fail to agree on the selection of a Chairman within seven-.(7) days, the Chairman shall be appointed■by the Provincial Minister of Labour. Failure by either party to appoint its representative within such period shall mean that the Minister of Labour shall be called upon to appoint • such representsfive. A ,majoritydecision. of such an ' Arbitration Board shall .be binding upon both parties.
The Arbitration Board shall reach a decision within one (1) week of the dare of'the appointment of the Chairman of the Board, or such longer period as the Board may require , to reach a decision. The decision of the Board shall finally .settle all differences between the parties or persons bound by this agreement an whose behalf it was	puar-aass
FROM IN?0R»5/Vr-CN cr.’.a.'so vc ct	to score
ACtcii'iiY, IT is	th.'.t fxcoutsi cs to
inr: parties TiU/.ummv.v. c...rrv; Kioto' i?-:- ? t it fivpiv v; h !:; e r ws >;a rv coNTiM-r: DiS hem?. j 'to. four svssu&sa de
L£UR EXACTITUDE, 11 ES7 CUCt&E Dti S7,B.'IS8S£R AUX fAKJtJ* S®HA37«85% DU' Uj, COWENTTOH,
interpretation or violation, and the Board shall make any necessary orders to implement Its award and restore any party to his or its rightful, position, including lost wages, reinstatement, etc. The Board shall have power Lo modify a penalty of discharge, suspension or discipline provided the Union established that there are just and reasonable grounds for such modifice-t ion.
(e)	The Arbitration Board shall not have any jurisdiction
to alter or change any of the provisions of the Agreement nor to substitute any new provision in lieu thereof nor to give any decision inconsistent with the terms and provisions of this Agreement.
(f)	Pending Arbitration there shall be no strike or lockout and work shall continue under this Agreement.
(g)	The parties may mutually agree to have a single arbitrator in lieu of an Arbitration Board and in such case the decision of the single arbitrator so agreed upon shall have the same effect as a majority decision of an Arbitration Board. The powers and responsibilities
of the single arbitrator shall be the same as the powers and responsibilities of an Arbitration Board consisting of three (3) arbitrators. The parties shall, jointly bear the expense of a single arbitrator appointed under this clause.
9.02	The disposition of complaints or questions in dispute shall be recorded in writing on a form supplied by the Union
and agreed upon by the Company and tl\e Union.
9.03	The Company will only consider grievances the circumstances of which are alleged to have occurred not more than fifteen (15) working days prior to the presentation of the grievance in writing, unless the employee is prevented from doing
so by unusual circumstances.
9.04	Each of the parties hereto will bear the expenses of the arbitrator appointed by it and the parties will jointly bear the expense of the Chairman of the Board of Arbitration.
9.05	Any place where the time of twenty-four (24) hours or forty-eight (4 8)h ours is involved in this section, Saturdays,
Sundays, or holidays shall not be counted.
DISCIPLINARY RECORDS
9.06	In the imposition of discipline, if an employee has not been formally disciplined for the same or a related offence for an interval, of one year (two years in the case of suspension) , his previous offences will not be referred to.
Rut in any event, discipline imposed will not be referred to after the expiry of three years from the date of the discipline.
DISMISSALS
10.01	it is agreed that dismissals are to be made only by the Plant Manager or Personnel Manager. Charges made against: an employee as a basis for his removal for cause snail
be acted upon only after such charges have been thoroughly investigated and the employee given an opportunity of stating his case.
10.02	If after investigation the employee or the Union believes that he has been unjustly discharged, a grievance may be submitted starting with Step 9.01 (b) of the grievance procedure, omitting Step 9.01 (al.
10.03	Suspension of an employee, however, may be made by his foreman or one of a higher rank. In such an event, the employee
. has the right of action described in the preceding paragraph.
HEALTH AND SAFETY
11.01	It is mutually agreed that both parties hereto will cooperate to the fullest possible extent in the prevention of accidents and the promotion of safety and health.
11.02	Rubber boots, aprons, gloves and goggles will be supplied employees when engaged in work which, in the view of the management, requires this protection. As to gloves, they will be supplied on a reasonable basis, where needed.
11.03 An employee suffering an injury, no matter how trivial,
or becoming ill while at work, shall report to his foreman and be allowed a reasonable time to secure proper treatment.
11.04	Sickness or accidents which necessitate absence from work must be reported os soon as possible to the foreman of the department concerned or to the Personnel Department.
11.05	All employees will submit to medical examination by the Company's doctor whenever requested to do so.
11.06	Sickness 'or disability resulting from an accident shall not be sufficient cause for discharge in the case of a regular employee. Upon recovery, the employee shall receive his former position,or some other suitable job in his department, if the recovered employee is then capable of performing the job in a satisfactory manner, and provided his absence was due to such sickness, or injury as certified by a doctor,
satisfactory to the Company and provided he was not absent because of sickness or injury for more than twenty-four (24) months. The foregoing shall not apply to employees injured while employed on off-duty hours by another employer or is self-employed.
11.07	There shall, be a joint safety committee appointed to consist of two (.2) members of the Company and two (2) of the Union.
11.08 The Company agrees that a copy of this Agreement may be placed in prominent places in the Brewery; if deemed necessary, where it may be examined at any time by members of the
Uni on.
11.09	(a) Where the Company requires an employee to wear a uniform, or special work clothing, such uniform or work clothing will be provided by the Company, at no cost to the employee. These employees are required to present a clean and neat appearance at: all times.
(b)	The Company shall provide to all seniority employees two
(2)	pairs of safety shoes or boots per year at a cost to the Company not to exceed $75.00 per year. Employees working in the Brewing and Kegglng Department shall be entitled to one pair of hard toed rubber boots and one pair safety shoes or boots.
(c)	The Company will pay the cost of cleaning of the uniforms of transport drivers on the basis of up to one (1) cleaning per uniform per week.
(d)	Employees shall be required to wear protective hearing devices and approved safety glasses in areas as designated
by the Company.
UNION SECURITY
12.01	All employees of the bargaining unit, presently members of the Union, shall continue to be members of the Union.
New employees of the bargaining unit shall become members of the Union within thirty (30) days and remain in good standing. The Company will. only be required to discharge an employee fort
(a)	Non-payment of initiation fees.
(b)	Non-payment of Union dues.
12.02	(a) The Company will grant a leave of absence for a short
period to perform legitimate duties on behalf of Local 362 or to attend a trade union convention or a labour institute and shall not be prejudiced thereby provided sufficient prior notification is given to the Company and leave of absence sought does not disrupt normal brewery operations.
Leave of absence will be granted for a period of not more than twelve (12) months or for the balance of the duration of this Agreement, whichever is longer, fox any employee who has been elected or appointed as an official of the Canadian Union or of the Local Union, if such duties require him to have leave of absence from his Company duties on a full time basis,
Employees on such leave of absence may be continued as active members of the Welfare Plan upon payment of total contributions whether from the Union or from the employee concerned. During such periods of leave of absence the employee's seniority shall continue to accumulate as if he were employed at his regular post by the Company.
13.01 All employees coming within the established bargaining
unit shall sign dues deduction authorization cards. Said dues shall be deducted on a weekly basis with new employees being required to pay dues starting with the first week of employment. Initiation fees will be deducted the first pay after thirty (30) calendar days employment upon notification from the Union. The Company shall retain from each employee's pay the amount of Union dues, initiation fees and/or special assessment required by the Union, provided such special assessment applies equally to all employees.
The Union shall inform the Company of the amount of Union dues and/or any assessment decided by the Union, and the Company shall remit to the authorized representative of the Union the total deduction before the fifteenth (15th) day of the month following the month during which the deductions have been made, together with a statement of employee's name and the amount so deducted and giving particulars of those whose employment has been terminated or who have been laid off since the previous statement was forwarded.
NO STRIKES OR LOCKOUTS
13.02	The Union undertakes that there shall be no strikes, slowdowns, or other interruptions of operations and the Company undertakes that there will be no lockouts, each for the duration of the . Agreement, it being understood that all differences between the parties shall be settled in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement.
13.03	If an employee in the bargaining unit encounters a bona fide picket line in the course of his normal duties, there shall be an immediate conference between parties before any decision is made by either party as to whether the picket line should or should not be respected.
(b)
(c)
WELFARE
14.01 (a) The Company will provide to eligible employees a Blue Cross plan, or a'plan with another carrier, providing similar benefits. This plan will be at no cost to employees.
(b)	Upon retirement at age 65, or, upon retirement after age 60 with 30 years of credited service, coverage will be continued on behalf of each Pensioner and his wife, during the lifetime of the Pensioner. This coverage may be provided where and when applicable
by supplementing an employee's free prescription drug plan, under the Provincial Government, with Blue Cross health benefits.
(c)	All eligible employees will be enrolled in a Dental plan, particulars of which will be supplied by the Insurer. In general the plan will provide for co-insurance factors of 1007o - 50% - 50%.
Effective August 1, 1980 the existing provision relating to dental expense claims shall be amended to provide that with respect to claims incurred on and after that date reimbursement of 75% of the cost of eligible restorative services, as now defined, will be provided. Also effective on and after the above date the existing provisions of the Dental Plan shall be amended to provide a combined lifetime maximum far Restorative and Orthodontic Services' to $3,000 and the maximum per year €or basic services to $500.
LIFE INSURANCE
14.02	(a) Effective August 1, 1980 all eligible employees will be
insured for an amount of $23,000 in the event of death from any cause.
Upon retirement at age 65, or upon retirement after age 60 with completion of 30 years of credited service, coverage will be reduced t o an amount of $3,000.
(b)	Accidental Death and Dismemberment Benefits will be provided, effective August: 1, 1980 up to a principal amount of $23,000. Benefits provided as to death and dismemberment will be those as set out in leaflets issued by the Insurer.
(c)	Where $23,000 appears in (a) and (b) above this amount will be replaced by $24,000 effective January 1, 1981 and
by $25,000 effective January 1, 1982.
4
The Company will provide at no expense to eligible employees a conventional sick pay plan, administered by an insurance Company and providing, subject to the rules of the plan, a weekly indemnity program providing a weekly benefit of 70 percent of earnings, (applicable usual classification hourly . rate x 40) for a period not exceeding twenty-six (26) weeks beginning with the first day of disability due to nonoccupational injury and the fourth day of disability due to sickness. -Particulars of the plan shall be supplied employees In leaflet form.
Employees who are receiving benefits pursuant to the weekly indemnity Benefit Pians as provided for under the terms of the Collective Agreement, shall be entitled to receive the rate increases as applicable as herein provided.
SICK LEAVE
14.04	An employee with over six (6) months' service is eligible for six (6) days sick leave per calendar year. To receive th is sick leave he must have his absence from work certified by a doctor's certificate. A doctor's certificate shell not be required under this c'lause if it is impracticable to obtain.
If an employee becomes eligible for benefits under the Sick Pay Plan he will not be permitted to use any of his sick days for any days that he is entitled to benefits under the Sick Pay Plan.
The unused portion of the employee's six (6) sick days will be paid to the employee at his basic rate of pay before Christmas. It is understood that the number of hours used as sick days plus the number of hours paid as stated above will not exceed 48 hours.
An employee in the year he acquires seniority shall accrue for cash out purposes only, one-half day for each month from the day he acquises seniority rights to the end of
that year.
An employee's sick leave credit will be prorated so as to apply to employees on retirement or death.
ILLNESS OR ACCIDENT
14*05 If, because of illness, a regular employee is not able to complete his shift after having worked at least two hours, he shall be sent home and shall be paid for the balance of his shift. In the case of an accident causing injury to a regular employee so severe that the employee is unable to continue work, he shall be paid for the balance of the shift. No employee will leave work before first:
reporting to his foreman. If the Company deems it necessary, they may require proof of illness by a Doctor's Certificate, and if the employee is unable to provide proof of illness, he will not be paid for the balance of the shift.
WORKMEN'S COMPENSATION
14.06	The Company will pay a seniority employee, who is absent
due to a cause that entitles him to Workmen's Compensation Benefits, 757. of his normal pay, (40 hours x basic rate).
This will, be paid in lieu of the employee receiving his payments from the Workmen's Compensation Board for a period not exceeding 26 weeks, and in no event will the Company be required to pay under this clause when the employee becomes eligible for long term disability. In turn all cheques relating to lost time will be either endorsed to the Company or sent directly to the Company.
.JURY DUTY
14.07 Any regular employee who is absent from his regularly scheduled ■t	work due to jury duty or subponaed as a crown witness in New
Brunswick shall receive the difference between the amount he receives as jury pay, including all other compensation from Government authority, and eight (8) hours pay at his straight time classification rate for each day of jury service while sitting on a jury ox as a member of a jury panel during selection (Monday to Friday inclusive), provided satisfactory proof is submitted to the Company that he/she was called fox jury duty and sat as a member of the jury for the period claimed.
BEREAVEMENT ALLOWANCE
14.08 In the event of a death in the immediate family of an employee, that is mother, father, brother, sister, wife, child, also mother-in-law, father-in-law, son-in-law or daughter-inlaw the Company will grant him time off with pay not more than three consecutive days, including Saturday and Sunday. However, if a fourth day is necessary in order to attend the burial, the employee shall be granted the burial day off without loss of pay. In the case of other in-laws and grandparents, grandchildren, aunts, and uncles, tho Company will allow one day off if the funeral is attended.
LONG TERM DISABILITY
14.09	The Company will provide, at no expense to the employee, a Long-Term Disability Plan, administered by an insurance company, that will provide subject to the rules of the plan 66-2/37. of an employee's wages, less offsets, beginning
an the 27th week of disability. The employee's wages shall be reported once a yeas to the insurance company and shall be those regular wages in effect January 1st of each year. The particulars of the plan shall be supplied to employees. Regular employees only shall be eligible for the plan.
GENERAL
15.01	'If during the life of this Agreement the Company wishes to make a technological change in its operations which would have the effect of abolishing existing job classific tions or creating new job classifications, or which would result in the layoff of any regular employee, the Company agrees that before introducing such technological change, it will meet with the Union to discuss the matter and to attempt to resolve the problems created by such technological change.
BULLETIN BOARD
15.02	The Company agrees to provide a bulletin board for the use of •«	the Union and will allow the Union to post notices of meetings
or other official Union notices, duly signed by an officer of the Union, provided that prior approval is obtained from the Company.
LEAVE OF ABSENCE
15.03	Upon written application by the Plant Chairman of Local 362 of the Union, the Company agrees to grant an educational leave of absence, without loss of regular pay, not to exceed three normal working days in any one year, to the Union Plant Chairman, Executive Officers, elected Stewards, >Alternate Stewards and Safety Committee members not to exceed 6 officers. Such educational leave will be so arranged between the Union and the Company so as to minimize disruption of the Company's operations.
COST OF LIVING ALLOWANCE
15.04	The Company agrees to provide for a cost of living allowance! whereby a lump sum payment will be paid to regular employees for all hours worked, including vacations and statutory holidays, in the period from January 1, 1982 to December 31, 1982, the first pay period following publication of the December 1982 Consumer Price Index, (1971 = 100), on the basis of 1 cent per hour for each full .3 chan e in the Consumer Price Index, (1971 = 100) in the period from January 1, 1982 to December 31, 1982 calculated by subtracting the Consumer Price Index (1971 = 100) for the month of December, 1981 after adding thereto 8-1/2% of the December, 1981 Consumer Price Index (1971 = 100), from the Consumer Price Index (1971 = 100) for the month of December, 1982.
DURATION OF AGREEMENT
THIS AGREEMENT arid schedule of working conditions shall become effective as of 1st January, 1980, and will continue in force until. 31st December, 1982, and thereafter from year to year unless or until either parry serves written notice on the other party to the contrary at least sixty (60) days prior to the 31st December, 1982 or sixty (60) days prior to the 31st December of any subsequent year.
SIGNED AT SAINT JOHN, N.B. this f day ofi^-^f 1980.
APPENDIX "A"
AGREEMENT made this Eighty
TO •
day of
BETWEEN
, Nineteen Hundred and .
MOOSEHEAD BREWERIES LIMITED, SAINT JOHN, N.B. AND BREWERY AND SOFT DRINK WORKERS LOCAL UNION NO. 362
WAGE RATES (HOURLY)
JAN. 1 1980
~~r~~
JAN. 1 1981 "1-----
JAN. 1
1982
----
SUPERVISORY PERSONNEL
Relieving Foreman	10.66	11.71	12.76
BOTTLING DEPARTMENT Uncaser Operator Saws
Optiscan
Filler
Labeler
Packer
Baler
Oiler
Maintenance Bottling Mechanic Carton Make-up Palletizer
10.30
10.30
10.30
10.30
10.30
10.30
10.30
10.40
11.24
11.97
10.30
10.30
11.35
11.35
11.35
11.35
11.35
11.35
11.35 11.45
12.41
13.14
11.35
11.35
12.40
12.40
12.40
12.40
12.40
12.40
12.40 12.50
13.58
14.31
12.40
12.40
BREWHOUSE & CELLARS Kettleman**
Carbonating & Filter Man
Keg Filler
10.42
10.35
10.30
11.47
11.40
11.35
12.52
12.45
12.40
FERMENTING ROOM Shift: Men**
10.35	11.40	12.45
ENGINEERING Mechanic "A"
Electrician (Journeyman) 3rd Class Stationary Engineers on Shift 3rd Class Stationary Engineers NOT on Shift: 4th Class Engineer Welder (Fully Qualified) Welder "BM
Mechanical Maintenance
11.97
11.97
11.97
11.24 10.46
11.97
11.24
11.24
13.14
13.14
13.14
12.41 11.51
13.14
12.41
12.41
14.31
14.31
14.31
13.58 12.56
14.31
13.58
13.58
JAN. 1	JAN. 1
1980	1981
--- ~1
MAINTENANGE
Carpenter
Painter
10.67	11.72
10.41	11.46
LOADING & UNLOADING
Head Checker	L0. 39
Checkers	10.30
Highway Drivers	(Tractor Trailer) 10.50
Truck Drivers	10.30
Fork Lift Operators	10.30
11.44
11.35 11.55
11.35
11.35
STORES
10.30	11.35
GENERAL LABOUR All Departments
Hospitality
Station Wagon Delivery
Probationary Employees
*
Temporary Employees
10.21
10.21
10.21
7.08
6.10
11.26
11.26
11.26
7.58
6.40
* Effective first day of month following ratification -k-k Refer to Letter of Intent Na. 5.
JAN. 1 1982 $
12.77
12.51
12.49
12.40 12.60
12.40
12.40
12.40
12.31
12.31
12.31 8.08 6.70
APPENDIX "B"
GUARANTEED WAGE PLAN Effective January 1, 1980
1.	Purpose
The 'purpose of this Plan is to provide a method of
guaranteeing income to certain employees who are laid off and separation pay in certain cases.
2 .	E ligibility for	Participation	in	the	Plan
Any regular hourly rated employee having at least one year of seniority at the date of his lay-off from the bargaining unit will be eligible to particpate in this Plan.
3.	Effective	Date
This plan	shall	become	effective	on	the	1st day of
January, 1980, or on any later date on which approval has been received from the Dominion Government holding that:
(a)	payments by the Company pursuant to this Plan
will be classed as deductible expenses for corporate income tax purposes, and that
(b)	the receipt by employees of the benefits provided by this PLan will not disqualify such employees from receiving any part o : the Unemployment Insurance Benefits to which they would otherwise be entitled.
4.	Exceptions
This plan has no application to and provides no benefits for:
(a)	Employees who have been laid off for disciplinary reasons and if such lay-off is questioned under the Grievance Procedure of the Collective Agreement final disposition of any grievance will determine the employee’s status under the Plan.
(b)	Employees who have been laid off because of
any strike, lockout, slowdown, picketing or other action by employees of this Company or by employees
of any other Company who are represented for collective bargaining purposes by the Canadian Union or by any local Union thereof or by the National Brewery Workers Union; or successors
thereof.
(c)	Employees who have been terminated because
. of specific direction or decree from any governmental authority which has the effect of curtailing any of the Company's operations, unless
( i) the direction or decree is the result
of an illegal act committed by the Company or one of its representatives, or
( ii) the direction or decree purports to change the method of beer distribution or beer retailing within the province of New Brunswick; or
(d)	Employees who have been laid off because of
any act of war or the hostile act of any foreign power or by any act of sabotage or insurrection or by any act of God; or
(e)	Employees who are laid off and who have arranged with the Company to take leave of absence without pay for a specific period in lieu of their lay-off. These employees will be deemed to
have opted out of the Plan for such period.
5•	Disqualification for Benefits
Ai employee who has been laid off and who would otherwise be eligible for participation in the Plan shall not receive any payment under the Plan for any week;
( i) in which he has been on lay-off and has failed to keep himself registered for employment with the Unemployment Insurance Commission in those cases where such registration is necessary to qualify for U.I.C. Benefits or for reduction of U.I.C. waiting period;
( ii) in which he has failed or refused to accept
employment deemed suitable for him by the Unemployment Insurance Commission;
(iii)	in which he has failed to accept and report
for any appropriate work assignment of at least one norma) working day unless excused for reason-a bl e cause.
{ iv) in which he is in receipt of a benefit provided by the Sickness and Accident: Plan or other benefit plan of the Company;
( v) after he has become entitled to receive a normal, early or disability pension under the Company's retirement plan;
( vi) in respect of which he is qualified for compensation from the Workmen's Compensation Board for any compensable accident or Illness.
6.	Benefits Provided for Laid-Off Employee
Subject to the terms end conditions of the Plan as herein set out each eligible employee who is laid off from the bargaining unit shall receive in addition to h i s wages for the week a benefit from the plan for each week of lay-off calculated by determining the product of items 1, 2 and 3 below and deducting from such product the amount of item 4.
1.	Seventy percent (70%) for those employees having more than 1 year seniority determined as of
the first day of that week in which benefit is paid,
2.	The straight time hourly rate of the employee.
3.	The excess of forty over the compensated and available hours of the employee. •
4.	The actual benefit, if any, for which such employee is eligible under the Unemployment Insurance Act for such week.
7.	Welfare Benefits During Lay-Off
An employee who is laid off continues to participate in the Welfare Plan of the Company applicable to employees in his bargaining unit: to the end of the month following the last month in which he has worked in the bargaining unit, or until the end of the last month during which he has drawn a benefit under this Plan, whichever is the later, Welfare Pian for the purpose of this section does not include the Pension Plan or the Sickness and Accident Policies which covers only indemnity for wages actually lost because of illness or accident.
An employee or Lay-off who pursuant to the above, has ceased to participate in the Welfare Plan is restored to participation immediately upon completion of eight (8) hours work in the bargaining unit.
8.	Defin it ions
For the purposes of this Plan:
"Wages" shall mean actual earnings for work performed and vacation pay, payment for any leave of absence with pay granted. e.g. jury duty, bereavement pay, payment for Statutory Holidays and call-in pay.
"Week" shall mean the Company’s payroll week.
"Compensated and available hours" means as applied to any particular week for any employee -
a)	all hours worked by the employee for the Company or for any other employer in such week, plus
b)	All hours not worked by the employee in such week but for which he receives wages from any employer, plus
c)	all hours scheduled in such week for an employee who is not on lay-off and which he has not worked for any reason other than lack of work, plus
d)	all hours scheduled in such week for an employee who is on lay-off and which he has not worked for any reason other than lack of work after being given reasonable notice according to
the established practice of the Company that such scheduled hours were available to be worked by him.
"Week of lay-off" means a week in which the employee's compensated and available hours are less than forty (40).
9.	Durat-ion of Benefits
The number of weekly benefits to which an employee shall be entitled if laid off shall be known as his benefit entitlement,
On September 1 in each year an employee's "Entitlement Maximum'' shall be established in accordance with Table A below, which entitlement shall be determined in accordance with an employee's completed years of seniority as at September 1, In addition to establishing the "Entitlement Maximum" the actual number of weeks for each employee shall also be determined by deducting the number of used weeks, if any, as at: August 31st from the "Entitlement Maximum" .
Each eligible employee's benefit entitlement shall be decreased by one week for each week in respect of which he is on lay-off and in receipt of benefits for more than thirty-two (32) hours; and by 4/5ths of one week for each week in which he is on lay-off and in receipt of benefits for more than twenty-four (24) hours; and by 3/5ths of one week for each week in which he is on lay-off and in receipt of benefits for more thon sixteen (16) hours; and by 2/5ths of one week for each week in which he is on lay-off and in receipt of benefits for more than eight (8) hours; and by l/5th of a week in which he is on lay-off and in receipt of benefits for eight (8) hours or less; and his benefit entitlement shall also be decreased by one week for each week in which he is on Lay-off but was disqualified for any of the reasons set out in sub-section (i), (ii) and (ill) of Section 5.
An employee's benefit entitlement shall be restored at the rate of l/10th of a week for each eight (8) full hours during which he has earned wages from the Company. No credits towards future benefit entitlements are allowed for wages earned during any period in which the employee is already entitled to the maximum sel out In Table A.
TABLE A
Completed Years of Seniority determined at the date of first Lay-off in any 12 month period________________________
15 years or more 10 years or more 5 years or more 4 years or more 3 years or mora 2 years or more
1 year and over
10.	Deductions
Any payment made under this Plan shall be subject to any deductions required by Federal, Provincial or Municipal authority or by the provisions of the Collective Agreement, or by voluntary authorization from the employee concerned.
IT.	Separation Pay
An employee shall be eligible for a separation payment as set forth below if on any date during his lay-off the hours scheduled for him during the previous twelve (12) consecutive months were less than fifty percent
Maximum Benefit Entitlement
78 weeks 65 weeks 52 weeks 45 weeks 35 weeks 25 weeks 15 weeks
12
(507o) of normal full time hours if he is not eligible for a normal, early or disability pension under the company's
Pension or welfare programme. If an employee applies or and accepts a separation payment hereunder, his seniority and other rights under the Collective Bargaining Agreement are cancelled.
An employee eligible for a separation payment hereunder must apply for it not later than six (6) months after he first becomes eligible therefore, otherwise his right to such payment shall be cancelled. If the Company permanently discontinues an operation, an employee laid off as a result thereof may apply for and receive separation pay without waiting the six (6) months' period.
In special cases where a Laid-off employee appears to have little prospect of recall to regular work within a period of six (6) months he may request immediate termination and severance pay, ana with the concurrence of the Company and the Union this may be granted notwithstanding the eligibility clause above.
The amount of the separation payment of an eligible employee shall be equal to the sum of -
a)	one week's base earnings (computed on the basis of his hourly rate in effect as of time of lay-off) multiplied by the number of his completed years of seniority as of the Last day he actively worked in the bargaining unit, plus
b)	$85.00 multiplied by a number equal to the number of unused weeks of benefit entitlement which an employee has to his credit at the date of his separation.
^ ications
Employees shall be required to observe such rules and follow such procedures and make .such reports and applications as shall be prescribed by the Company after consultation with the Union. The wilfull falsification of any fact material to the determination of an employee's benefit rights under the Plan shall result in the forfeiture of any benefit rights he may have under the Plan for a period of twelve (12)
months subsequent to the discovery of such falsification and this shall not preclude any other disciplinary action which may be taken as the result of the discovery of such falsification, and this shall not preclude any other disciplinary action which may be imposed subject to the Grievance Procedure of the Collective Agreement.
13.	Report ing
The Company will make periodic reports to the Union weekly while employees are laid off and receiving benefits under the Plan and quarterly if no employees are on lay-off, giving the Union complete information as to the number of employees who have been laid off, the duration thereof, the payments made to each individual under the Plan, the number of ineligible and disqualified employees, and such other similar information as may be relevant.
14.	Duration of Agreement
This Agreement shall take effect from the 1st day of January, 1980 and shall continue for a period of three years from the said date.
HOQSEHEAD BREWERIES—LIMITED PENSION PLAN
Effective July 1, 1974 employees of Moosehead Breweries Limited will be eligible for membership in the Retirement Plan for wage employees, subject to the following provisions:
1•	Eligibility
Employees shall be eligible for membership on the later of July 1st, 1974 or on the 1st of the month following the date of becoming a regular employee.
2.	Employee Contributions
No employee contributions will be required after July 1st, 1974.
3-	Normal. Retirement	Date
First of the month following his sixty-fifth birthday.
4.	Basic Benefit
A monthly pension payable from age sixty-five (65) equal to $7.50 multiplied by the number of years of credited service after July 1, 1974 to December 31, 1979.
5.	(i)
For the members who retire on or after January 1, 1980 the following shall apply:
(a)	Minimum Pension at: Normal Retirement
A member retiring at; age 65 with at least 30 years of credited service is entitled to a supplement, if necessary, to provide a monthly pension of $700 from Company plans and Canada Pension Plan combined.
If a member retired at age 65 with less than 30 years of credited service, the supplement to his accrued pension and the offsetting Canada Pension Plan benefit will be reduced in proportion to the ratio that the number of years of credited service bears to 30 years.
(b)	Calculation of Pension Benefit Accrual
- for service after January 1, 1980:.
a monthly pension equal to $13 multiplied by the number of years of credited service;
- for service to December 31) 1979: the pension benefits accrued to each member remain unchanged.
(c)	Special Early Retirement
A member retiring after having attained age 60 with at Least 30 years of credited service is entitled to an immediate accrued pension equal to the amount of accrued pension to his credit for service to date of early retirement, without reduction fox the earlier date of retirement.
This pension will be supplemented by any amount: necessary to provide a monthly pension of $860 from Company Plans payable until the member first becomes eligible to receive Canada Pension Plan Retirement Benefits. Thereafter, the member will receive the supplement, if necessary, to provide a monthly pension of $700 from Company Plans and Canada Pension Plan combined.
(d)	Disability Retirement
For employees having attained age 50 and completed 10 years of service wno become disabled and retire under the disability provisions of the pension plan, a supplementary benefit of $4.00 per month multiplied by the number of years of credited service up to a maximum of 30 years. The supplement: is payable until eligible to receive either a statutory disability or retirement benefit. This supplement will be paid in addition to such employees' full, accrued pension at time of disability retirement.
(ii)	For members who retire on or after January 1,1981
the following shall apply:
(a)	Minimum Pension at Normal Retirement
A member retiring at age 65 with at least 30 years of credited service is entitled to a supplement, if necessary, to provide a monthly pension of $740 from Company Plans and Canada Pension Plan combined.
If a member retired at age 65 with less than 30 years of credited service, the supplement to his accrued pension and the offsetting Canada Pension Plan benefit
will be reduced in proportion to the ratio that the number of years of credited service bears f o 30 years.
(b)	Calculation of Pension Benefit Accrual
For service after January 1, 1981: a monthly pension equal to $14 multiplied by the number of years of credited service.
(c)	Special Early Retirement
A member retiring after having attained age 60 with at least 30 years of credited service is entitled to en immediate accrued pension equal to the amount of accrued pension to his credit for service to date of early retirement, without reduction for the earlier date of retirement.
This pension will be supplemented by any amount necessary to provide a monthly pension of $900. from Company Plans payable until the member first becomes eligible to receive Canada Pension Plan Retirement Benefit, Thereafter, the member will receive a supplement, if necessary, to provide a monthly pension of $740 from Company Plans and Canada Pension Plan combined.
(iii)	For members who retire on or after January 1,
1982 the following shall apply:
(a)	.Minimum Pension at Normal Retirement
A member retiring at age 65 with at least:
30 years of credited service is entitled to a supplement, if necessary, to provide a monthly pension of $780 from Company Plans and Canada Pension Flan combined.
If a member retires at age 65 with less than 30 years of credited service, the supplement to his accrued pension and the offsetting Canada Pension Plan Benefit will be reduced in proportion to the ratio that the number of years of credited service bears to 30 years,
(b)	Calculation of Pension Benefit Accrual
For service after January 1, 1982 a monthly pension equal to $15 multiplied by the number of years of credited service.
(c) Special Early Retirement
A member retiring after having attained age 60 with at least 30 years of credited service is entitled to an immediate accrued pension equal to the amount of accrued pension to his credit for service to date of early retirement, without reduction for the earlier date of retirement.
This pension will be supplemented by any amount necessary to provide a monthly pension of $940 from Coirpany plans payable until the member first becomes eligible t o receive Canada Pension Plan Retirement Benefit. Thereafter, the member will receive a supplement, if necessary, to provide a monthly pension of $780 from Company Plans and Canada Pension Plan combined.
6.	Early Retirement
At any time after age fifty-five (55) and completion of ten (10) years of service, the employee may elect to retire, in which case his accrued pension for service from July ls 1974 will be reduced by one-third (1/3) percent for each month he is under age sixty-five (65) when his	pension	commences.
7.	Credited	Service	•
Credited	service	is	service for which required contribu-
tions have been made prior to July 1, 1974.
Credited service after July 1, 1974, in any calendar year will be one-tenth of a year for each 180 hours worked or paid for, after becoming a member of the Plan, to a maximum of 1800 hours.
Hours paid for include all hours compensated from payroll, viz: vacations, paid holidays and sick pay, and periods for which benefits are received as provided for under the Long Term Disability Plan and Workmen's Compensation.
8.	Termination of Service
The non-contributory pension benefits accrued for service from July 1, 1974 will be payable as a deferred pension commencing at normal retirement date, provided the employee has completed at least ten (10) years of service.
Death After Retirement
The pension for service from July 1 , 1974 is payable for life and ceases at the employee's death. However, at retirement the employee may, if he has been married for at least one year, elect to receive a reduced Joint Survivorship Pension with his spouse as joint pensioner. Under this option he will receive ninety (90).percent of the amount of his pension for service from July 1, 1974 at his death his surviving spouse would receive sixty (60) percent of his reduced pension for her remaining lifetime,
10.	Death Before Retirement
If the employee dies in service after having attained age fifty-five (55) and completed ten (10) years of service and if he has been married for at least one year before his death, his surviving spouse will receive a pension in respect of his service from July 1, 1974 determined as if he had retired as of his date of death, and as if he had elected the Joint Survivorship Pension.
11.	Escalation
For employees who retire after July 1, 1974 the basic pension benefit accrued at retirement (including previous plan but excluding supplement) will be subject to an annual escalation each January 1st with the adjustment to be based on the percentage increase in the Consumer Price Index in the 12 month period preceding September 1st, subject to the maximum increase of 27, in any year.
12.	Previous Plan Benefits
All contributions to the Moosehead Breweries Limited Pension Plan for hourly employees underwritten by the Standard Life Assurance Company under Policy GR P.W. 10664, will discontinue as of June 30, 1974. Benefits accrued by a participant of that Plan will be determined and fixed to the credit of the Participant for his service to July 1, 1974, and will be payable in accordance with the provisions of that Plan.
this PHCTocr y;
FRec • ■■ :A." ,
ACCUiV.CY, ,r .. . " I P
THE PAiW;:;;	1 A.
SEi-W A .XX ;,;• ./■	■ ■.
SE;G..xuf;Ta	;:r
LEUfi EXACTITUDE, iL EST . _
*ART1ES ^SWAIRES de WqwVENTloW
:y; j'OT-,; :ie; r V'ooses •	u cm sure
■ -WU Li:- cade to O...ATA p; iO'TOZCSPHi PEUT CCNTIENT DOS REN-POUR S’ASSURER DE UGGERE DE S'ADRtSSER AUX

..3
/ , ,/r ' C)	r SOURCE	/? , .		
		o		; . ... * LV.i / / . :-// * *’ i /
cF "-" ". .. y / /	Tca/v.	V /		
	Nc, Of EM? LOVE 65		/ V''	
	NOi.'.JRE D'::MPf.OVSS			
and LOCAL UNION NO. 362
CANADIAN UNION OF UNITED BREWERY, FLOUR, CEREAL, SOFT DRINK & DISTILLERY WORKERS
JAY23 19841983-1984
LABOUR AGREEMENT between
MOOSEHEAD BREWERIES LIMITED
Saint John, N.B.
and LOCAL UNION NO. 362
CANADIAN UNION OF UNITED BREWERY, FLOUR, CEREAL, SOFT DRINK & DISTILLERY WORKERS
1983-1964

1:00 1:03 1:04
1:05
1:06
2:00
3:00
3:04
3:05
4:00
5:00
5:01
5:02
5:03
5:04
5:07
6:00
6:08
7:00
8:00
INDEX
Subject
Parties
Forward
Purpose
Recognition Contracring Out Union Activities and Representation During Working Hours Negotiations
Labor Management Meetings
Management Functions Union Securitv Leave of Absence
Educational Leave
No Strikes or Lockouts
Grievance Procedure Individual Grievance Collective Grievance Company/Union Grievance Discipline, Suspension Discharge Arbitration
Health & Safety EAP Program
Clothing & Equipment
Seniority — Vacancies -Promotions - Postings Temporary Employees
Page
1
1
1
2-15 2- 4
4-7
7-	8
8-	9
10-11
12-14
14
15-16
17
18-27
18-20
20-21
21
22-25
25-27
28-32
32
33-36
36^50
#	Subject
9:00	Technological Change
10:00	Training Assistance
11:00	Adequate Manpower
12:00	Wage & job Cl assifications
13:00	Hours of Work Overtime & Premium
13:04 Shift Premium 13:05 Rest Periods -Lunch Breaks 13:06 Schedule c£ Hours 13:07-
13:12 Overtime 13:14 Overtime Rest Periods & Meal Allowances 13:15 Call-In 13:16 Reporting Allowance 13:19	Banking Overtime
14:00	Special Allowance
15:00 Paid Holidays
16:00 Vacations
Paid Time Off
17:00
Eage
51-52
53
54
55
56
57
58
59-61
62-69
69
70
71
72
73
74-77
78-84
85
#	Subject
17:01	Sick Leave
17:02	Jury Duty
17 :03 Bereavement Leave
18:00 Workers Compensation
19:00 Employee Benefits
20:00 General
21:00 Duration of Agreement Signature Page
Appendices A-E A-Wages & Jab Classifications Relieving Foreman,Cola B-Guaranteed Wage Plan C-Employee Benefit Plan D-Pension Plans E-Letters of Understanding
1-Preference to Contractors employing unionized workers
2-	Employee Assistance Program
3-	New Postings
4-	Reclassification of Temps to Potential Regulars
5-	Seniority List
6-	Pension Buy Back
7-	12hr Shift (Brewing)
Page
85
86 87
8S
89-91
92
93
94
95-129
95-101
102-116
117-120
121-128
129-149
129-131
132-133
134-137
138-139
140-141
142-144
145-149
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
BETWEEN:
MOOSEHEAD BREWERIES LIMITED, hereinafter
called "the Company”
AND
LOCAL UNION NO. 362, CANADIAN UNION CF UNITED BREWERY,
FLOUR, CEREAL, SOFT DRINK AND DISTILLERY WORKERS,
hereinafter called "the Union"
FORWARD
For the purpose cf this Agreement, the masculine pronoun shall bedeemed to include the feminine.
PURPOSE
In recognition of their mutual interests, this Agreement is entered into for the purpose of recording . the hours, wage rates and terms or conditions cf employment of the Company's employees; to set up the means for settling amicably any differences or grievances which nay possibly arise and for the general purpose cf promoting and improving industrial relations between the Company and the Union.
1
ARTICLE 1 RECOGNITION AND SCOPE
Of THE BARGAINING UNIT---------------
1*01 Recognition
The Company recognizes that the Union has been duly certified by the Industrial Relations Board as sole representative to bargain with the Company for all employees, except hereinafter mentioned in 1.02 with respect to wages, rates of pay, hours and terms or conditions of employment during the life of this Agreement and that it has all the rights inherent to such certification.
1.02
Definition of "Employee"
The term "employee", wherever used in this Agreement, shall mean all employees cf the Company, save and except office staff, salesmen, public relations personnel, watchmen , laboratory technicians, chief engineer, supervisors and foremen and persons above the ranks of supervisor and foreman.
1.03
Work of the Bargaining Unit - Contracting Out
(a) All work coming within the jurisdiction cf the bargaining unit shall be reserved for employees in the bargaining unit. Plant
2
maintenance work may be contracted out, as in the past, provided it does not result in layoffs or continuation of layoffs. Truck Drivers and Helpers dE outside firms, who are not employees of the Company shall be confined to the plant loading area.
(b) Supervisors and foremen including Relieving Foremen and persons above those ranks, shall not perform work of the bargaining unit,
(c)	Supervisors and foremen may, from time ta time, perform work cf the bargaining unit for the purposes of training and instructing employees and in emergency situations, or temporarily relieving employees for short periods when other employees are not available.
(d)	Emergency situations shall mean situations where employees able and willing to do the work are unexpectedly unavailable on the shift or on an overtime basis, or where the delay in arranging their assignment or calf-in to perform the work, would result in lost production and/or product. Work performed in such situations shall not continue beyond the time required to arrange for assignment or call-in of an employee.
3
(e)	The Company will advise all employees cf the names of supervisors and foremen to be recognized in each department by posting such information on the bulletin boards.
A copy of each such notice and revision shall be delivered to the Union.
(f)	From time to time, the Company may appoint temporary Charge Hands, who while working with a crew of one {1} or more employees, are specifically charged with the responsibility for the quality and/or quantity of work performed by such crew, provided however, that the temporary Charge Hand only performs work within the jurisdiction of the bargaining unit. Such temporary Charge Hand shall be a member of the bargaining unit and shall be paid thirty cents (30<t) per hour above the highest rate being paid to employees under his direction or his classification, whichever is higher, while performing the duties of the Charge Hand.
1.04
Union Activities and Representation -During Working Hours
No Discrimination
(a) The Company and the Union agree that there will be no discrimination against any employee
■4-
because of race, colour, creed, nationality, place of origin, sex, marital status, or membership in the
Union.
Shop Stewards and Grievance Com -
mittee
(b)	The Company shall recognize one (1) Shop Steward or alternate who shall act in the absence of the regular Shop Steward, appointed by the [Inion in each of the following departments :
Production (on each shift)
Production Maintenance Brewhouse and Cellars Shipping and Receiving Engineering
(c)	The departmental Shop
Steward who initiated the complaint or grievance and the Chief Steward, except in cases where the Chief Steward is the grievor, shall be members of the Grievance Committee, along with the President of the Local Union (or his designated representative).	The
Vice-President of the Local Union shall be recognized as the alternate in the absence of either the Chief Steward or the President.
5
Union Activities - During Working
Hours
(d)	There shall be no Union
activities during working hours which interfere with the duties of any employee, unless permission is first obtained from the employee's immediate supervisor, such permission will not be unreasonably withheld at any time and all such time off during an employee's working hours shall be without lass of pay*	Such	activities shall be
limited to those required for the administration and application of the terns of this Agreement.
(e)	Union representatives and committee members shall be entitled to leave their work during hours to enable them to carry out their functions under the Agreement, including the investigation and processing of grievances. If performing such functions interferes with their duties, permission to leave work during working hours for such purposes shall first be obtained from their Immediate supervisor, and such permission shall not be unreasonably withheld at any time. All such time spent in performing Union duties during working hours shall be without loss of pay.
Meetings with Management Personnel
(f)	Every Officer and. Steward of the Union who is an employee shall be allowed such time off as may be necessary to enable them to attend those appointments with Management Personnel at which their presence is required under any provision c£ this Agreement, and every employee who is a necessary witness at a grievance or arbitration hearing established under this Agreement, shall be allowed such time off as may be necessary to enable them to give evidence at such a hearing. The allowing c£ such time off shall, however, be subject to the employee’s having obtained permission from their immediate supervisor to leave their work. Such permission shall not be unreasonably withheld and all such time off during an employee's working hours shall be without loss of pay.
1.05
negotiations
At the request of the Union, the Company will grant time off, without loss of pay, during the employee's regular working hours, to the employee holding the highest ranking
7
office in the Local Union and four (£) additional employees selected by the Union, to allow them to be members of the Union Negotiating Committee and to enable such employees to attend meetings with the Company representatives, a Conciliation Officer, Conciliation Board, or Mediator, for the purposes cf negotiating this Agreement, a renewal, or amendments during the life of this or any subsequent Agreement.
1.06
Labour-Management Meetings
Labour-Management meetings shall be held during the third week of each month or a time mutually agreed upon by the Company and the Union. Union representation at Labour-Management meetings shall consist of its Local Executive Board members and departmental Shop Stewards, to a maximum cf ten (IQ).
1.07
Regular Monthly Meeting Night
The Company agrees that there will be no night work scheduled for the plant on the regular monthly meeting night of the Union, unless a definite production emergency arises.
■8
1.08
Copies of Agreement
The Company agrees to supply the Union with sufficient copies of this Agreement in booklet form far all employees, and a reasonable number cf additional copies for the Union.
1.09
Bulletin Board
The Company agrees to provide a bulletin board for the use of the Union and will allow the Union to post notices of meetings and other official Union notices duly signed by an Officer of the Union.
-9-
ARTICLE 2 MANAGEMENT FUNCTIONS
2.01	The Union acknowledges that it is the right of the Company to:
(a)	maintain order, discipline and efficiency.
(b)	hire, discharge, transfer, promote „ demote or discipline employees.
(c)	generally	to manage the
industrial enterprise in which the Company is engaged and without restricting the	generality	of the	fore-
going- to determine the products and by-products to be manufactured, processed, packaged, shipped and distributed, the methods of manufacturing, processing, packaging? shipping and distribution, the sources, quantities and kinds cf ingredients,	supplies, and	other
materials used in the manufacturing, processing and packaging of the Company' s products and by-products, the schedules of manufacturing, processing, packaging, shipping and distribution	and the kinds	and
locations of machinery, equipment and tools	used throughout	the
Company's operations.
-10-
2.02	The Company has the right to make reasonable rules to be observed by the employees, and these rules shall riot be inconsistent with the terms or spirit of this Agreement.
2.03	The Company agrees that it will not discharge or discipline any employee without just cause.
2.04	It	is understood	that	in
exercising these functions the Company must conform to all other clauses of this Agreement.
2.05	There shall be a meeting
between the respresentative of the Company and the Union, at the request	cf	either party,	on	any
matter of interest or concern, which affects	the	administration	of	this
Agreement.
11
ARTICLE 3
UNION SECURITY - ACTIVITIES
3.01
Union Security
(a)	Every employee in the bargaining unit shall be a member in good standing cf the Union, and as a condition of his continued employment he shall continue ta remain a member in good standing, cf the Union.
(b)	The Union agrees that it will not refuse membership to any employee without just cause. Whenever an employee is suspended or expelled from membership the Union will give the Company, in writing, the reasons for such action.
3-02
Check-Off, Union Dues and Initiation Fee
(a) Every employee shall, as a condition cf his continued employment, authorize the Company in writing, to deduct from each pay payable to him thereafter during the life cf this Agreement and during the life cf any subsequent collective agreement containing similar provisions, such amount as may from time ta time be certified in writing by the Union to the Company as being the amount cf Union Dues and assessments currently payable.
-12-
(b)	The Company shall have no financial responsibility for fees or dues of an employee unless there are sufficient unpaid wages of that employee in the Company's hands.
(c)	Every new employee shall at his time of hiring, if he is nor at such time a member in good standing, of the Union, complete and sign an application for membership in the Union and an authorization for deduction from hi5 pay cf such amount as may at that time be certified by the Union to the Company, in writing, as being the amount of the Union's standard Initiation Fee.
(d)	An Application for Membership and Authorization For Deduction cf Initiation Fee shall have no application until such an employee attains regular employee status.
(e)	Authorization	for
Deduction of the Union Initiation Fee, Union Dues and assessments shall be in the forms provided by
the Union.
(f)	Initiation Fees, Union Dues and assessments deducted by the Company shall be remitted to the Financial Secretary of the Union prior to the 15th day of the month following the month in which such deductions were made, together with such detail and explanations as may be reasonably required.
-13-
3.03
Union Dues, To Be Indicated on Statements of Income
The Company will indicate the amount of Union Dues deducted from each employee's pay? for each calendar year, on statements of income required for taxation purposes by any government agency, federal or provincial.
3.04
Leave of Absence - Union Activities
(al The Company will grant a leave of absence for a short period to perform legitimate duties on behalf of the union or to attend a trade union convention or a labour institute and shall not be prejudiced thereby provided sufficient prior notification is given to the Company and leave cf absence sought does not disrupt normal brewery operations.
(b) Leave cf absence will be granted for a period cf not more than twelve (12) months or for the balance of the duration of this Agreement, whichever is longer, for any employee who has been elected or appointed as an official of the National Union or cf the Local Union, if such duties require him to have leave of absence from his Company duties on a full time basis.
14
(c)	Employees on such leave cf absence may be continued as active members of the Employees Benefit Plans upon payment of total contributions whether from the Union or from the employee concerned. During such periods of leave of absence the employee's seniority shall continue to accumulate as if he were employed at his regular post by the Company.
(d)	Upon the written request of the Union, the Company agrees to continue to pay employees granted leaves of absence under (a) or (b) above, their regular hourly rate while on such leave, subject • to being fully reimbursed by the Union.
3.05
Educational Leave
(a) Uoon written application by the President of Local Union No. 362	, the Company agrees to grant
an educational leave cf absence, without loss of regular pay, up to a total maximum cf twenty-four (24) working days in any calendar year, to the Union Executive Officers and elected Stewards.
15
Such educational leave will be arranged between the Union and the Company to minimize disruption of the Company’s operations. Any unused educational leave shall be accumulated from year to year.
(b)	Employee members of
Company and Union joint committees established under this Agreement shall be provided reasonable opportunities through leaves cf absence, without loss of regular pay, to attend conferences, seminars, workshops and training programs, approved by the Company and the Union, to enable them to participate effectively on such committees.
16
ARTICLE 4
NO STRIKES OR LOCKOUTS
4.01
The Union undertakes that there shall be no strikes, slowdowns or other interruptions of operations and the Company undertakes that there will be no lockouts, each for the duration of the Agreement, it being understood that all differences between the parties shall be settled in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement.
4-02
If an employee in the bargaining unit encounters a bona fide picket line in the course of his normal duties, there shall be an immediate conference between parties before arty decision is made by either party as to whether the picket line should or should not be respected.
17
ARTICLE 5
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
Any difference or dispute which may arise between the parties during the life of this Agreement, concerning the interpretation, application, administration or alleged violation of this Agreement, including any question as to whether	a matter	is
arbitrable, shall be dealt with as a grievance, as hereinafter provided,
There shall be an earnest effort on the part of both parties to this Agreement to deal proirptly with grievances through the procedure provided below.
5.01
Individual Grievances
An employee who has	a grievance
will ordinarily discuss the matter with his immediate supervisor and if the matter is not resolved in that discussion,	he may refer	the
question to his Shop Steward for consideration.	However,	should	the
nature of ’the grievance be such that the employee prefers to refer it to his Shop Steward first, then he may do so.
18
Step 1
If a grievance is referred by an employee to his Shop Steward, and if the Shop	Steward considers that
there is a	reasonable	basis for the
grievance,	the Shop	Steward may
refer the matter, in writing, to the employee's	immediate	supervisor.
The supervisor shall immediately arrange to meet with the employee(s) and his Shop Steward to hear the matter, within two (2) working days following the day on which it is presented in writing.
Step 2
If the grievance remains unsettled for three (3) working days after its submission at Step 1, it may, within five (5) working days after the hearing at Step 1, or when it should have been heard, be referred by the employee's Shop Steward, in writing, to the Plant Manager. Within three (3) working days of the submission of a grievance at Step 2, the Plant Manager (and/or	such other
person(s) he may designate) shall meet with the employee(s), the Grievance Committee and a representative of the Union' s choice to discuss the matter. The Company's decision will be given, in writing, to the employee(s) and the Union within three (3) working days after such meeting.
-19-
Step 3
If the grievance remains unsettled for three (3) working days after its submission at Step 2, it may, within five (5) working days after the hearing at Step 2, or when it should have been heard, be referred by the Grievance Committee, in writing, to the Employee Relations Manager. Within three (31 working days cf the submission of a grievance at Step 3, the Employee Relations Manager {and/or such other person(s) as he may designate) shall meet with the employee! s), the Grievance Committee and a representative of the Union's choice to discuss the matter, The Company's decision will be given, in writing, to the employee(s) and the Union within three 13) working days after such meeting.
5.02
Collective Grievance
Should a group cf two (2) or more employees who have a grievance based upon the same provision or provisions of this Aereement, or upon similar facts, desire to have such matter dealt with collectively rather than as individual grievances, they may refer the matter to their Shop Steward or Chief Shop Steward if employees from more than
20
one (1) department are involved, and if the Shop Steward or Chief Shop Steward considers that there is a reasonable basis for the grievance,the Shop Steward or Chie€ Shop Steward may present such matter, in writing, commencing at Step 1 of the Individual Grievance Procedure.
5.03
Jnion Grievance
Should any grievance, or dispute arise directly between the Company and	the Union, concerning	the
general policy of either the Company or the Union, which affects the orderly administration of this Agreement, either party may invoke the grievance and arbitration procedure, commencing with a conference at Step 2. Failing agreement, the grieving party	may within five (5) working
days after the conference at step 2, submit the matter, in writing, to the other party, setting out sufficient detail	to	define	the issue.	The
party to whom such matter was submitted shall deliver to the other party	a	reply,	in writing,	with
sufficient explanations, to such submission within five (5) working days after receipt cf such submission.
\
\
•21
5.04
Discipline, Suspension or Discharge
(a) Should it become necessary to officially warn an employee that failure to improve his record with the Company may result in disciplinary action being taken, such an employee shall be advised of his right to have his Shop Steward present, and if requested, shall have his Shot> Steward present at such meeting. The giving of the warning shall be confirmed to the employee by the Company in writing, A copy of such letter will be given
to	the employee'	s Shop Steward	an
the	same date	it is given to	the
employee.			
	(b) When	an employee is	to
be	suspended	or discharged,	he
shall be advised of his right to have hi5 Shop Steward present and if requested, shall have his Shop Steward present for such meeting. The reasons for his suspension or discharge will be given. In any event, an employee who is suspended or discharged will be given the opportunity to discuss the matter with his Shop Steward during working hours and prior to leaving the Company's premises. Such suspension or discharge shall be confirmed to the employee by the Company, in writing, and a copy cf such tetter will be given to the employee's Shop
22
Steward on the date it is given or mailed to the employee.
(c)	Any grievance relating to the suspension or discharge of any employee may be submitted by a Shop Steward commencing at Step 2 of the Individual Grievance Procedure, in writing, within fifteen (15) working days of the suspension of discharge.
(d)	The Company agrees that in the event an employee is disciplined for just cause, the records cf such disciplinary action shall be removed from such an employee's personnel files, and destroyed, after a period of twelve (12) months (two
(2)	years in the case of suspension) from date the employee was officially advised in writing of such discipline, provided the employee has not been subject to further discipline within such period. In any event, discipline imposed will not be referred to after the expiry of three
(3)	years from the date of the discipline.
(e)	It is further understood and agreed that records relating to discipline reversed or withdrawn under the grievance or arbitration procedure shall not be kept or recorded in an employee' s personnel files, The Company also agrees that any employee shall have the right
23
to review their personnel files upon request in the presence of a representative cf the Company, with a Shop Steward present if requested by the employee, concerning information in	such an	employee' s	personnel
files concerning his application for employment, hiring date, transfer, promotions,	demotions,	discipline
(including written warnings), work performance and evaluation by supervisors and others. Upon request, the	Company	will also	provide an
employee with a copy cf any material or documents in an employee's personnel files, which if inaccurate, shall be corrected.
(f)	The Company agrees that the discharge cf an employee shall only be made by the Plant Manager or	Personnel	Officer,	after the
grounds upon which the discharge for just cause are based have been thoroughly investigated by the Company, and the employee has been given an opportunity, with his Shop Steward present, to respond to the reasons stated for the discharge,
5.05
Saturdays, Sundays and observed holidays shall not count as "working days" as referred to in this Article
5.
24
5.06
The Company will only consider grievances the circumstances c£ which are alleged to have occurred not more than fifteen (15) working days prior to the presentation of the grievance, in writing, unless the employee is prevented from doing so by unusual circumstances.
5.07
Arbitration
(a)	Should any grievance or dispute arise which is not satisfactorily determined under the foregoing pro-visions, and should the grieving party desire to carry the matter further, the matter may then, by notice in writing given to the other party within ten (10) working days from the date when a decision was given, or should have been given, as provided for above, be referred by the grieving party to arbitration as provided for below.
(b)	Any matter referred to arbitration under this Agreement, shall be submitted to a single Arbitrator.
25
(c)	The party giving notice cf desire to refer a matter to arbitration shall include, in the written notice given to the other party, the names cf at least three
(3)	persons fhr the consideration of the other party a5 an Arbitrator.
An earnest effort will be made by both the Company and the Union to reach mutual agreement on the person to be requested to serve as Arbitrator.
(d)	In the event that the parties fail agreement on such an Arbitrator, the Minister cf Labour and Manpower for the Province cf New Brunswick may, on the request cf the grieving, party, appoint an Arbitrator.
(e)	The Arbitrator shall hear the grievance and shall issue a decision, within fifteen (15} days, or within such other period as the parties may agree upon or the Arbitrator may reasonably require, following the hearing, which shall be final and binding upon the parties and any employee affected by it.
(f)	The Arbitrator shall not have -the power to alter or amend any <£ the provisions of this Agreement.
26
(g)	Where an Arbitrator determines that an employee has been discharged or otherwise disciplined by the employer for just cause, the Arbitrator may substitute such other penalty for the discharge op discipline as to the Arbitrator seems just and reasonable in all the c i rcumstances.
(h)	The parties and the Arbitrator shall have access to the employer's premises to view workine conditions, machinery, or operations, which may be relevant to the resolution of a grievance.
(i)	The Arbitrator shall have jurisdiction to determine whether a grievance is arbitrable.
(j)	Each of the parties to this Agreement shall pay one-half (1/2) of the remuneration and expenses of the Arbitrator.
(k)	Any of the time limits referred to in this Article 5 may be extended by mutual agreement, in writing, between the parties to this Agreement.
-27-
ARTICLE 6
OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY
6.01
The Company agrees to make all necessary and reasonable provisions for the health and safety cf all employees during the working hours. The Company will furnish adequate facilities. equipment and devices for that purpose. The Company and the Union mutually agree that employees wilt be encouraged to cooperate in the maintenance of healthy and safe working conditions, in the proper use of protective clothing and equipment, and in the observance cf all safety rules and regulations.
6.02
illness or Accident
(a)	While at work, an
employee who suffers any injury, no matter how slight, or who, due to work related cause, becomes ill, shall report to his supervisor and be allowed reasonable time to secure proper treatment, with no loss cf pay, during an employee's regular working hours. In the event that such an employee is unable to complete the balance of his shift on that day due to such disability, the employee shall be paid for the balance cf his shift, at his regular hourly rate-
28
(b) If, because af illness unrelated
to work or not requiring medical treatment, a regular employee is not able to complete his shift after having worked at least two (2) hours, he shall be allowed to go home and be paid for the balance of his shift on that day, No employee will leave work in such circumstances without first reporting to his supervisor. Where justified, the Company may require proof cf illness by a licensed medical practitioner, before payment is made. The cost of a medical certification, if any, shall be paid by the Company.
(c)	Illness or injury which results in an employee being absent from work, must be reported promptly by the employee to his department foreman or the Personnel Department.
(d)	In the event of a dispute between the Company and an employee's physician relating to any employee1 s claim or entitlement to
benefits for a non-occupational illness or injury, the employee may be referred to an independant specialist for an examination, at the expense of the Company.
-29-
6.03
For the bargaining unit a Joint Health and Safety Committee will be established, consisting <£ six (6) members. Three (3) members will be appointed by the Union and three
(3)	members will be appointed by the Company, each far a term of two (2) years. A number of alternates, equal to their regular members, shall be appointed by the Union and the Company, who will act in the absence of the regular Committee member(s).
6.04
The duties of the Committee will consist of making recommendations for the improvement of health and safety, investigation cf all accidents, and working towards the elimination of all health and safety hazards.
30
6.05
The Committee, consisting of a majority of its members shaiL meet regularly, at least once in each month, or at the request of the Union or the Company’s representatives, to discuss matters related to health and safety within the Company's operations, to review accident reports and plan health and safety programs. They shall also make regular inspections cf work sites and equipment to check all health and safety conditions. A copy of the reports and recommendations cf the Committee shall be forwarded, in writing, to the Company and the Union.
6.06
When an employee has reason to believe that a jcb or work site, equipment, or a vehicle, is not in safe operating condition or presents a danger to the health or safety of the employee personally or other persons, the employee shall promptly report the matter to the employees Supervisor for immediate attention. In the event that the employee is not satisfied with the action taken by the Supervisor, or the Supervisor fails to take any action, the employee may submit the matter to a member cf the Committee, who shall
31
immediately take the matter up with the Department	Read,	and then if
necessary, in consultation with the Company or Union counterpart on the Committee, investigate the matter and submit a written report, with recommendations, to the Chairman and Secretary of the Committee.
6.07
The	Company,	the	Union,	all
employees, and the Joint Health and Safety Committee shall at all times in matters relating to occupational health and safety be guided by the provisions of this Agreement, the Occupational Health and Safety Act, Regulations and Codes of Practice made	pursuant	to that Act,	and
common sense.
6.08
Employee Assistance Program
During the term of this Agreement, an employee recovery program will be reviewed, with a view to establishing, a workplace program to help	employees	with	problems	like
alcohol and drug abuse, financial problems, family problems, etc. The Employee Assistance Program shall be attached as Appendix "E" - Letters of Understanding.
32
ARTICLE 7
UNIFORMS, PROTECTIVE CLOTHING AND
EQUIPMENT----------------------------
7.01
Where the Company requires an employee to wear a uniform or special work clothing, such uniforms or work clothing will be provided by the Company, at no cost to the employee, Such employees are required to oresent a clean and neat appearance at all times.
7.02
All regular employees (other than Drivers} shall be issued two (2) sets of uniforms each calendar year, consisting cf two (2) trousers and two (2) shirts (long or short sleeve).
7.03
(a) All regular employees, when regularly working as Drivers (including Tractor Trailer, Truck or Station Wagon) shall be issued Summer and Winter uniforms. Each uniform shall consist of two (2) trousers, one Cil jacket, one (1) cap (winter only) and two (2) shirts (long or short sleeve) for each issue, if required.
33
(b)	Summer and Winter uniforms will only be issued in the initial year c£ employment as a Driver, if required. In each following year, a Driver will be issued one (1) complete uniform, Summer or Winter issue, whichever is required.
(c)	Drivers shall also be issued one (1) heavy Winter jacket each year, if required,
(d)	The Company will pay the cost c£ drycleaning Drivers uniforms to a maximum c£ one (1) cleaning per uniform per week.
(e)	The	Company agrees to
provide Drivers with galoshes.
7.04
(a)	The	Company agrees to
supply vests to protect employees exposed	to	law	temperatures while
performing their work, such as employees working a5 Fork Lift Operators in Loading Docks during Winter, and Carbonating and Fermenting in cellars.
(b)	Employees requiring vests on a regular basis will retain them. Those employees requiring vests on a part-time or temporary basis shall return them to the Company when na longer required-
34-
(c)	The Company shall also
maintain two (2) clean heavy Winter jackets and two (2) clean sets of heavy rainwear garments in the Storeroom,	for use in emergencies
and breakdowns occurring outside the plant, to be used on a sign-out and return basis.
7.05
Maintenance men and other employees who require coveralls shall be issued two (2) sets per calendar year. These coveralls shall be purchased and cleaned at Company expense.
7.06
(a) The Company shall provide to all regular employees an allowance cf $75 per calendar year, towards the cost of two (2) pair of safety shoes or boots per calendar year.
(b)	Regular employees working in the Brewing and Kegging Department shall be entitled to the allowance referred to in (a) above, towards the cost of one (1) pair of safety toed rubber boots and one (1) pair of safety shoes or boots per calendar year.
(c)	Any unused amount of the allowance referred ta in (a) above, may be accumulated from year tu year as a credit, to be used for the purchase of safety shoes.
-35-
7-07
All employees shall be required to wear protective hearing devices and approved safety glasses in work areas designated by the Company. The Company shall issue such devices to employees who require them, on a replacement basis due to normal wear and use, at no cost to the employee.
7.08
Rubber boots, aprons, gloves and goggles will be issued to employees engaged in work which requires this protection.
ARTICLE 8 SENIORITY
Definition of Seniority
8,01
Seniority cf an employee shall mean the length of his unbroken service with the Company, in the bargaining unit.
Definitions, Establishment of Seniority
8.02
A probationary employee is one who has been hired with a view to his becoming a regular employee, but who has not yet completed ninety (90) days cf actual work. On completion of his probationary period.
-36
such an employee shall be credited
with seniority from a date which is ninety (90) working days prior to the date on which he completed his
probationary period.
8.03
A regular employee is one who
(a)	Has actually worked for a period in excess of one hundred and thirty-two (132) working days in a twelve-month period as a temporary employee under clause 8.04j or
(b)	Has actually worked in excess of ninety (90) working days as a probationary employee, or
(c)	Having been reclassified from temporary to probationary status, has actually worked in excess of a total cf ninety (90) working days from the commencement of his last employment with the Company.
\
\
\
-37-
Effective January 1, 1983
8.04
(a)	A “temporary employee” is one who is hired by the Company to perform work of a temporary nature, which shall mean work during peak business periods and relieving when regular employees are on vacation, or absent due ta illness or injury for a period of not more than one hundred and thirty-two (132) days of actual work, continuously or collectively, during any twelve (12) month period, excluding any time worked during the period June 15 to September 15 in any year.
(b)	Temporary employees shall not be placed on the seniority list until they have completed a total of one hundred and thirty-two (132) days of work, continuously or collectively, during any twelve (12) month period (excluding any time worked during the period from June 15 to September 15 in any year). On the attainment of one hundred and thirty-two (132) days, such an employee shall be credited with seniority from a date which is one hundred and thirty-two (132) working days prior to the date on which he attained his one hundred and thirty-second U32) day.
38
(c)	In the event that a
temporary employee remains in the Company's employ beyond one hundred and thirty-two (132) working days cf actual work, during any twelve (12) month period, he shall be reclassified as a ’’potential regular employee” and immediately be paid the full regular hourly rate at any job to which he is assigned thereafter.
Id) Temporary employees shall be rehired to perform available work as temporary employees, dn order of the greater number cf days actually worked.
8.05
Seniority List
A seniority list shall be established and maintained by the Company for all employees in the bargaining unit, showing the name and seniority date cf each employee who has acquired seniority, Copies of the original and all revised seniority lists shall be delivered to the Union and posted on the plant bulletin boards. Such lists shall be subject to review by the Union and any irregularities in the list not consistent with the seniority provisions defined in this Agreement shall be corrected.
39
8.06
When: Service Broken
An employee's service with the Company shall be broken if that: employee :
(a)	quits voluntarily,
(b)	is discharged for just cause and not reinstated,
(c)	is laid off for a period in excess of twelve (12) consecutive months or more, or for a period in excess of benefit entitlement under the Guaranteed Wage Plan, whichever is greater.
(d)	fails to return to work on the expiration of any period cf leave granted- by the Company, without just cause, or unless excused by the Company.
(e)	fails to reply to a notice of recall, or report for work, as required under clause 8.09, without just cause, or unless excused by the Company.
(f)	is absent from work for three (3) consecutive days without having notified the Company and received permission in advance, where that is possible, or
40
(g)	otherwise ceases to be employed by the Company.
The Company will advise the Union, in writing of any leave of absence granted to any employee for any period of five (5) working days or more, including any extension of such leave.
8.U7
A colic aliens	of Seniority _
Vacancies. Promotions. Demotions, Transfers, etc.
(a.)	In filling vacancies,
including promotions, demotions, transfers, training positions, newly created or established jobs or preferred jobs, within the bargaining unit, seniority shall govern, provided the senior employee has the ability bo perform the job.
(b) Employees selected under
8.07	(a} above, shall be given an
appropriate training and trial period, during which they must demonstrate ability progressing towards satisfactorily fulfilling the normal requirements cf the jcb.
41
(c)	If within the training and trial period an employee is,, demoted or transferred back due to his inability to satisfactorily perform such new duties, he shall be permitted to revert fo his former position and wage rate, without loss of seniority and the employee who has been promoted or transferred because of the rearrangement d positions shall also be returned to his former position and wage rate without loss of seniority.
(d)	In the event that a job vacancy occurs or a new jcb is created or established, an opportunity for promotion, preferred jcb, or for a training position occurs or becomes available in the bargaining unit, notice of such vacancy shall be posted on the Union bulletin boards for a period cf ten (K>) working days fur. the information of all employees in the bargaining unit. The notice shall set out the job description, qualifications required by the job, the classification and wage rate.
(e)	During the period referred to in (d) above, any employee in the bargaining unit may make application for the job posted, All applicants shall receive consideration in accordance with the provisions of this clause 8.07.
42
Employees in the bargaining unit having the ability to perform the job in accordance with this- clause
8.07	which shall include those employees having preferential rights for recall or rehiring, shall receive the job in preference to persons outside of the bargaining unit. The Company may fill any job vacancy temporarily, pending completion of the Job Posting procedures set out in this Agreement.
(f)	The Company will deliver
to the Union a copy cf each Job Posting, a list of all applicants, and will also advise the Union of the name of the successful applicant, in writing, prior to declaring and posting	such	information.	The
Company agrees to use a standard form, to be mutually agreed upon, fcr Job P os tings.
(g)	The	Company will	select
the successful applicant, if any, within ten (10)	working days	df the
close of the posting period and will advise the employees in the bargaining unit of its decision by posting- that information on the Union bulletin boards. The successful applicant shall be assigned to the job for which	he applied	within
thirty (30) working days cf the close cf the posting period.
43
{h) Employees may be transferred temporarily from one position or department to another. An employee transferred to perform work on a temporary job shall revert to his regular job and classification upon completion of such temporary work assignment. The transferring of an employee to work outside of his regular classification and job or to another department may only be done by an employee's departmental supervisor.
(!) An employee who holds a permanent job at present or Who acquires such a position through the job Posting procedure, shall not at the same time hold a relief or temporary position. Employees who do not hold a permanent position may not hold more than two (2) relief or temporary positions at any one time, except €or Brewhouse which shall be limited to one (1) position within that occupational group, other than training or upgrading positions, Employees holding relief positions through a job posting shall be assigned to perform work on such jobs in order of seniority.
(j) The Company will assign regular employees to work on skilled jobs, prior to assigned temporary an-ployees to such jobs, provided regular employees are able and willing to do the job and are not at that time assigned to an equally paid skilled position.
-44-
8.08
Layoff and Recall from Layoff
(a) In the event that it becomes necessary to reduce staff, seniority shall govern, The Company shall first lay off all temporary employees and then all probationary employees, in order of time actually worked, with the employee with the least number of days actually worked laid off first. If further reduction of staff is required, it shall be made impartially and in strict reverse order cf seniority, provided the senior employee is able to perform the work available, in accordance with the provisions of clause 8.07 of this Agreement. Any employee transferred ta another job under these seniority provisions in order to avoid layoff shall immediately be paid at the rate of the job to which such an employee is transferred. When the working force is increased following a layoff, the employees will be recalled, in order cf seniority, in the case of regular employees, or in order of the greater time worked,. in the case of probationary and temporary employees, to their former jobs, or to jobs which they are able and willing to perform.
45
(b)	All	employees	on the
Union	Executive,	and	Shop	Stewards
designated by the Union in each department, shall be exempt from temporary layoffs as long as there is work in their respective departments, provided they can satisfactorily fulfill the normal requirements of the job.
8.09
(a)	The Company shall main-
tain a list of employees laid off by it from the bargaining unit, and such	lists shall	show	the	seniority
of such employees, or the number of days	worked in	the	case	of tem-
porary and probationary employees . When workers are required for the bargaining unit, the layoff list will be examined and, to the extent of the number of jobs available, the employees will be recalled from transfer of layoff in accordance with the applicable provisions of Article 8. Such lists shall be revised regularly, with copies of each such list posted on the plant bulletin boards and delivered to the Union.
(b)	If, following such recalls, there is still a deficiency of workers in the bargaining unit, probationary employees and then temporary employees on the lay-off list, in order of the greater number
•46
cf days actually worked, shall be offered such vacancies provided the employee can satisfactorily fulfill the normal requirements cf the jcb. Probationary and temporary employees shall retain preferential rights for recall after lay-off for a period cf twelve (12) months frcm the date following the date of their last lay-off provided their previous employment was satisfactory.
(c)	If, at the time of recall, a regular employee is not in the active employment cf the Company, a notice shall be sent to him by registered snail, addressed to the last address which he shall have recorded with the Company. Such notice shall indicate the job for which the individual is considered qualified, the proposed time and place cf rehiring (which shall not be less than seven (7) working days from the date of mailing such notice by the Company) and shall state that if the individual desires to be rehired for such job, he shall so notify the Company by telegram, or by registered mail, within five (5) working days of receipt of such notice from the Company, A copy of each such notice shall be delivered to the Union.
-47-
8.09
(d)	The individuals ta whom such notices are sent and who report ready for work at the time and place of rehiring as set out in such notices, or at such other time as may be mutually agreed upon between the Company and such employees, shall, if they are then so qualified to fill the jobs available, be rehired. The Company shall not be required, however, to rehire at any time, any individual who failed to notify the Company of his desire to be rehired, or who failed to report for rehiring in accordance with and at the time stated in any such notice sent to him.	The
company shall be entitled to fill any jobs available an a temporary basis, pending rehiring of those having preferential rights for rehirin g. If the employee is not available when required, the Company may then recall the next employee on the recall List, but he is subject to being replaced if the employee first recalled does report within seven (7} working days. On such rehiring, there shall be deemed to have been no break in • such employee' s service if the employee had acquired seniority rights prior to his last layoff.
48
8.10
Illness or Disability
Illness or disability, which qualifies under the Long Term Disability Plan or Worker‘5 Compensation, will not be considered cause for discharge of a regular employee. An employee who bas been continuously absent from work due to illness or disability, for a period of up to twenty-four (24) months, shall be allowed to return to their former job and work, if he is capable cf satisfactorily performing the work required. If after recovery, such an employee is unable to perform his former duties, or in the event he has been continuously absent from work due to such illness or disability for a period in excess of twenty-four (24) months, and if there is at that time a regular job in the bargaining unit, which is either vacant or has been created by mutual agreement between the Company and the Union, he shall be transferred to such position, if he is capable cf satisfactorily performing the required duties.
49
8.11
Progress Report - New Employees
Upon request by the Union at Union-Vanagement meetings, the Company will give a progress repart on all new employees after two months employment,
8.12
Guaranteed Wage Plan
Employees on layoff under the provisions of this Agreement may claim supplementary income under the terms cf the Guaranteed Wage Plan, attached hereto and forming part of this Agreement as "Appendix B" — Guaranteed	Wage	Plan”.	The
Guaranteed Wage Plan is a supplement intended to provide assistance to employees with one (1) or more years of continuous service who are laid off as a result of the application of the layoff provisions of this Agreement, but this is not to be construed a5 altering the layoff provisions	specified in	this
Agreement.
50
ARTICLE 9
TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE
9.01	(a) If, during the life of
this Agreement, the Company wishes to make a technological change in its operations, which would have the effect cf substantially altering car abolishing any existing classifications, or creating new classifications, or which would result in the layoff cf any regular employee, the Company agrees that it will meet with the Union and engage in meaningful and constructive discussion of the matter and attempt to resolve the problems created by such technological changes, as well as to attempt to lessen the impact of technological change on the employees affected.
(b) When the Company is considering the introduction of a technological change, the Company agrees to notify the Union as far as possible in advance of its intention and to update the information provided as new developments arise and modifications are made. The Company shall provide the Union with a 'detailed description of the project it intends to carry out, disclosing all forseeable effects and repercussions on employees.
51
as a change
result of in
the
a
Company' s operations, an employee is assigned to a job having a lower rate of pay than the rate cf pay he formerly received, he shall continue to be paid at his former rate of pay until the jcib rate for his new classification equals his former rate.
If, during the life of this Agreement, the Company, wishes to establish any new classification, it will advise the Union in writing and negotiate the classification and rate of pay with’ the Union.
9-02
52
ARTICLE 10 TRAINING ASSISTANCE
10.01
Based on its operational needs the Company shall maintain the established practice of on-the-job and other training, which shall he sufficient to allow the employees reasonable opportunities to learn additional skills and to upgrade their knowledge or skills, to the extent required to perform their jobs,
10.02	(a) Where deemed necessary by the Company, assistance shall be given ta employees who attend Company approved, off premises training programs at approved institutions outside of their regular working hours, where such training relates	to their employment.
Assistance shall be in the form of tuition fees and books upon successful completion of the program.
(b)	If such training is required by the Company and is outside the immediate area of the City of Saint John, the Company will reimburse the employee for legitimate expen ses.
(c)	Where the training program is conducted by the Company, time spent in such training shall be considered for the purposes of wages and benefits to be time worked and payable at the regular hourly rate.
53
ARTICLE 11
ADEQUATE MANPOWER
11.01
The Company wilt supply adequate manpower on all operations in all departments at all times so that an employee will not be required to perform more than a fair day's work.
11.02
Clause 11.01 'shall not be construed to mean	that	the	manning	of	all
operations	is	at	present	exactly
adequate or that all employees are presently	assigned	exactly	a	fair
day's work and, accordingly, changes in the manning of crews and changes in an employee's workload may	be	made	so long	as	the
resulting situation is not a violation of clause 11.01.
54
ARTICLE 12
WAGES AMD JOB CLASSIFICATIONS
12.01
The Company shall pay wages and a Cost of Living Allowance (COLA) as set out in Appendix "A" - Wages and
Jab Classifications, attached hereto and forming parr of this Agreement,
12.02
Job classifications are set out in Appendix "A" and they shall not be changed or deleted, nor shall the jobs themselves be substantially altered or amended, without the agreement of the Company and the Union.
12.03
Employees who are temporarily transferred to a higher rated job and not training under supervision, shall continue to be paid their regular rate unless the transfer continues for one (1) or more working days, in which case they shall be paid the higher rate for all hours worked during the day, or for more than twenty (20) hours in a week, in which case they shall be paid the higher rate for the job, for a minimum of forty (40) hours during such week. Any employee transferred to a lower rated job for the convenience of the Company shall not have his regular rate reduced.
55
ARTICLE 13
Hours of work, overtime and HBMIUWS---------------------------
13.01
Definition of Work Week
For the purposes of this Agreement, the work week shall commence at midnight Saturday - Sunday.
13.02
Regular Work Week
(a)	For the purposes of this Agreement, the regular work week for all employees (other than Operating Engineers and Highway Drivers when working a four day week) shall consist of forty (40) hours to be worked in five (5) consecutive shifts of eight (8) consecutive hours (including a one-half hour paid lunch period) each day, Monday to Friday, inclusive.
(b)	For Operating Engineers, the regular work week shall consist of forty (40) hours to be worked in five (5) consecutive shifts cf eight (8) consecutive hours (including a one-half hour paid lunch period) each shift, Sunday to Saturday. inclusive.
-56
(c)	For	Highway Drivers
< Tractor-Trailer and Helpers) when working	a	four	(4)	day	week, the
regular work week shall consist of forty	(40)	hours	to	be	worked in
four	(4)	shifts	of	ten	(10) con-
secutive hours (including a one-half hour paid lunch period) each day, Monday to Friday, inclusive.
13-03
Regular Dav Shifts
The regular day shift shall commence between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 9:30 a.m.
13-04
Shift Premium
(a)	Any shift commencing
after 9:30 am. up to and including 6:00 p.m. shall be considered the afternoon shift and a premium of 65# per hour shall be paid. Any shift commencing after 6:00 p.m. and before 6:00 a.m., shall be considered the midnight shift and a premium of 75g per hour shall be paid. Effective January 1,	1984 the midnight shift
premium shall be 80g per hour.
(b)	Such shift premiums shall not be deemed to be part of an employee's regular hourly rate in the calculation of overtime, holiday or vacation pay.
57
13.05
Rest Periods and Lunch Periods
[a) Every employee will be allowed one (1) paid rest period of fifteen (15) minutes during each one-half (1/2) shift. Rest periods will be arranged, as near the mid-point of each one-half (1/2) shift a5 possible. Every employee shall be granted, and the Company shall arrange, a lunch period of one-half (1/2) hour to be scheduled to commence near the mid-point of each shift. Such rest and lunch periods shall be from the time the employee leaves his job to the time he returns to the job.
(b) Any change in the rest and lunch periods presently existing for employees working in Brewhouse, Cellars, Operating Engineers and Drivers shall be mutually agreed upon between, the Company and the Union, .in writing.
58
13.06
Schedule of Hours
(a)	The schedule of hours to be worked each day shall be posted by 12:00 noon on Thursday of the previous week for the following week. The scheduling shall provide far at least twelve (12) hours elapsed time between the comoletion of an employee's shift and the commencement of his next shift, except where an employee is scheduled to change from one (1) group of consecutive shifts to another, in which case the elapsed time may be reduced to eight (8) hours.
Changes in Schedules of Hours
(b)	Without changine schedules posted pursuant tu clause (a) above, an employee may be requested to take over a work assignment different from that which was posted €or him, and the Company will endeavor whereever possible to give at least twelve (12) hours notice of such change, and provide at least twelve (12) hours elapsed time from the end cf his posted assignment to that of his new assignment.
■59.
{c} The provisions in clause (a) above, relating to changing from one (1) group cf consecutive shifts to another and the provision in (b) above, shall not apply to Drivers and Helpers. In the event that a Highway Driver (Tractor-Trailer) and Helper, when scheduled on a four
(4)	day week, is requested to take over a work assignment which is different from that which was posted for the previous week, he shall be paid at the appropriate overtime rate for anywork performed by him outside of his regular scheduled hours or on his scheduled day off, Monday to Friday, The schedule of hours to be worked each day and scheduled days off for a Highway Driver (Tractor-Trailer) or Helper when scheduled to work on a four
(4)	day week, may not be changed after they have been posted.
-60-
13.06
Changes in Schedules of Hours -
Continuous Working Days for Vacation Re lief
(d)	In the event of an
employee being transferred, for the purpose of relieving €or vacations, from one (1) group of consecutive shifts in a week to another in the following week, and the last day worked in that week connects, without a scheduled day off, with the first day to be worked in the following week, such day or shift shall not be recognized as a Saturday or first scheduled day off, or Sunday or second scheduled day off, in such cases. When scheduled to perform such work an employee shall be scheduled for two (2) days off during the week in which he is relieving for vacation purposes. Such an employee shall be paid at the rate of one and one-half (1	1/21 times
his hourly rate for all work performed and required by the Company on the first of his two (2) scheduled days c£f and at the rate of two (2) times his hourly rate for all work performed and required by the Company on the second of his two (2) scheduled days off.
-61
13-07
Overtime
(a)	Every employee (other
than a Highway Driver and Helper when working on a four day week) having performed eight (8) hours work in any day or shift, shall be paid at the rate cf one and one-half (1	1/21 times his hourly rate for all
work performed by him and required by the Company in excess of eight (8) hours, and two (21 times his hourly rate for all such work performed by him in excess of eleven (11) hours.
(b)	(i)	A Highway Driver
(Tractor Trailer) and Helper when working a four (4) day week, having performed ten (10) hours work, in any day, shall be paid at the rate of one and one-half (1 1/21 times his hourly rate for all work performed by him and required by the Company in excess of ten (10) hours and two (2) times his hourly rate for all such work performed by him in excess of thirteen (13) hours.
62
(ii) A Highway Driver [Tractor Trailer) and Helper when working on a four (4) day week, shall be paid at the rate of one and one-half (1	1/21 times his hourly
rate for all work performed by him and required by the Company, and two (2) times his hourly rate for all hours worked in excess of eight (8) hours, on his scheduled day off, Monday to Friday.
13.08
Overtime on Saturday or First scheduled Day Off
(a) Every employee (other than Operating Engineers) shall be paid at the rate of one and one-half (1	1/21 times his hourly rate far all
work performed and required by the Company on a Saturday and two (2) times his hourly rate for all hours worked in excess of the first eight (8).
(b) An Operating Engineer shall be paid at the rate of one and one-half (1	1/21 times his hourly
rate far all work performed and required by the Company on the first of his two (2) weekly scheduled days off.
63
(c) Weekend Bonus
Art Operating Engineer who is regularly scheduled to work on a Saturday and/or Sunday shall, while so scheduled, be paid a weekend bonus as shown below:
For Saturday - $1,00 per hour For Sunday - $1.50 per hour
for worked performed by him and required by the Company, unless he is entitled under the other provisions of this Article to be paid at the rate c£ one and one-half Cl 1/21, two (2) or two and one—half (2 1/21 times his hourly rate. Such weekend bonus shall be payable in addition to the shift premiums payable under clause 13.04. For the purposes cf this Agreement, such bonuses shall not be considered as forming part of an employee' s hourly rate.
64-
13.09
Overtime on Sunday or Second Scheduled Day Off
(a)	Every	employee	(other
than Operating, Engineers) shall be paid at the rate of two (2) times his hourly rate for all work performed by him and required by the Company on a Sunday or on the second of	his	two {2}	weekly
scheduled days off.
(b)	An Operating Engineer
shall be paid at the rate of two (2) times his hourly rate for all work performed by him and required by the Company	on	a	Sunday or	on the
second of	his	two (2)	weekly
scheduled days off.
13.10
Overtime on Paid Holiday
Every employee shall be paid at the rate of two (2) times his hourly rate for all work performed and required by the Company on a day which is observed as a paid holiday under the provisions cf Article 15, in addition to pay for the holiday and two and one-half (2 1/21 times his regular rate for all hours worked in excess cf the first eight (8).
65
13. n
No Duplication of Premiums or Overtime Payments
Except as provided for in clause 13.08	(c) above, there shall not be
any duplication of the various forms of premium and overtime pay provided for in this Agreement.
13-12
Assignment of Overtime
(a)	The Company agrees to distribute overtime as equally- as possible among regular employees who normally perform the work required.
(b)	The Company will assign overtime work on the following basis:
(i) Such opportunity will first be made available on a "least overtime hours" basis to those regular employees in the department in the occupational group who normally perform the work on which such overtime is required,
66
(ii) in the event that the Company' s needs cannot be entirely satisfied in that manner, the overtime opportunity will then be made available on a "least overtime basis" to regular employees in the bargaining unit in the occupational group who are able to perform the work required, and then to regular employees in the bargaining unit who are able to perform the work required.
13.12
Cb) Ciii) it is further understood that in the event that all overtime requirements cannot be satisfied on a voluntary basis, such work may then be assigned on a reverse-seniority basis to those employees in the bargaining unit who are able to perform the work required,
(iv)	except in the case of equipment breakdown or emergency, all overtime shall be voluntary, provided the employee can be replaced by an employee who is able ta perform the work required, and
(v)	except in the case of equipment breakdown or emergency, notice of planned overtime shall be given prior to the end cf an employee's regular shift on the day prior to which the work is required.
-67-
Notice of overtime planned for Saturday shall be given prior to the end of an employee's shift on Thursday of any such week.
NOTE
The Company and the Union agree that the above provisions are intended to provide reasonable provisions for lessening cf the problems created by overtime work for employees, however, it is anticipated that all employees will continue to cooperate in sharing required overtime assignments, particularly in situations where the least senior employees request to be relieved from such work, due to personal or other reasons,
{c> It is further agreed that overtime will not be assigned to temporary or probationary employees while regular employees are available and able and willing to perform the work required.
(d)	it is understood that to facilitate the equitable distribution of overtime work, the Company shall maintain departmental list of overtime hours worked and offered, Copies of such lists shall be posted on the plant bulletin boards and be made available to the Union upon request.
68-
Overtime hours offered to employees within their department which are refused, will be recorded and considered as overtime hours actually worked, for the purposes cf satisfying the requirements of (a) above. Onion representatives shall not be recorded as overtime hours offered and refused when unable to accept due to Union business.
13.13
Rest Periods Before Overtime
When an employee is required to work at least two (2) hours overtime immediately following his normal work period in any day or shift, he shall be granted a rest period of fifteen (15) minutes with pay, before commencing such additional work.
13.14
Overtime Rest Periods and Meal Allowances
In the case of unplanned overtime (employee not notified on the day prior), the employee shall, after having worked two (2) hours, be given a paid one-half (1/2) hour lunch period. An employee working such unplanned overtime shall be granted a meal allowance of $4.00.
69
If such additional work continues for more than two (2) consecutive hours following resumption of work after the meal break, the employee shall be granted an additional rest period of fifteen (15) minutes, with pay, for such period and each additional two (2) hour period.
13a5
Call-In
(a)	Whm an employee, after leaving the Company's premises, is called by the Company and requested to return to work due to an equipment breakdown, emergency, or other urgent situation following completion of his day's work and before the commencement of his next scheduled day's work and is assigned to less than four (4) hours work outside c£ regular scheduled working hours, he shall be paid at least four (4) hours pay at his appropriate overtime rate.
(b)	In the event that work on a call-in continues to be required up to or beyond the time such an errployee's regularly schedu ed shift commences, such an employee will cease to be on call-in status at such time and shall be paid for the call-in without being required to perform four (4) hours work on the call-in.
70
(c)	An employee called in on a call-in shall be free to leave the plant when the equipment breakdown, emergency, or other urgent situation has been satisfied, and be paid for the call-in without being required to perform at least four (4) hours work.
13.16
Reporting Allowance
(a) In the event an employee reports €or work at his scheduled time, without having been previously notified not to report, unless hi5 failure to receive notice not to report is due to absence without just cause from his shift, and less than four (4) hours work is available €or him, he shall be paid four (4) hours at his regular hourly rate.
(bj It shall be the responsibility cf an employee who has been absent from work for any reason, to check with his departmental supervisor or the personnel department on the day prior io returning to work, so that he may be advised of his shift schedule.
71
13.17
"Banking" cf Overtime Pay
An employee in Maintenance (including Oiler, Painter, Welder, Electrician and Stationary Engineer) who performs work on an overtime basis may, at the option of the employee, receive payment for the time worked at the appropriate overtime rate, or "bank” such overtime hours, calculated on the basis cf the regular hourly rate equivalent for such time. Such "banked" time may be taken as paid time off at a time or times to be mutually agreed upon between the employee and his immediate supervisor, payable at the employee's regular hourly rate at the time the time off is granted. Banked overtime may be accumulated to a maximum of forty (AO) hours, at any one tirne. Such time off shall be taken in minimum periods of eight (8) hours.
72
ARTICLE 14 SPECIAL ALLOWANCES
14.01
Out-of-town Meal Allowances - Highw
ay Drivers
When working out-of-town, Highway Drivers and Helpers shall receive from the Company meal allowances on the following basis:
Breakfast
Lunch
Supper
Total
$ 5.00
7.00
8.00
$20.00 per day
A Highway Driver or Helper who is required to stay out-of-town overnight shall receive from the Company an additional allowance of $5.00 far each such night and the cost of one
(1)	long distance telephone call up to $3-00.
14.02
Drivers Licenses for Drivers, and Medical Examinations
The Company agrees io reimburse all Drivers for the fee cost of obtaining oc renewing their required driving licence. The Company also agrees to pay the cost, if any, of medical examinations drivers may be required. to undergo, relating to obtaining or renewing their licence.
73-
ARTICLE 15 PAID HOLIDAYS
15.01
The expression "holiday" wherever used in this Agreement, shall mean any one of the following:
Mew Year's Day Labour Day Good Friday Thanksgiving Day Easter Monday
Remembrance Day (November 11)
Victoria Day Christmas Day Dominion Day Boxing Day New Brunswick Day
In the event that the Provincial or Federal Government declares an additional holiday during the term of this Agreement, it will be recognized as one of the above holidays.
15.02	(a)	Should any of the
holidays mentioned above fall on a Sunday, the regular working day which next follows will normally be designated as the holiday-
74
(b)	Should any of the hol-
idays referred to above fall on a Saturday,	the holiday will, by
mutual agreement, be rescheduled within thirty (30) calendar days of the day which would have otherwise been the holiday. Such lieu day shall be recognized as the holiday for the purpose cf the Agreement.
(c)	Should any of the above holidays fall on the scheduled day off of an Operating Engineer, such an employee shall be paid for such holiday in an amount equal to his regular hourly rate, multiplied by twelve (12).
15.03
(a)	Employees on the seniority list shall receive pay for each such holiday, provided the employee worked or was available for work on the scheduled working day preceding the holiday and the scheduled working day following the holiday. An employee' s pay for each such holiday shall be an amount equal to his regular hourly rate, multiplied by eight (8).
(b)	Temporary employees, probationary employees and potential regular employees (who have worked five (5) working days in the twenty
-75-
{20} working days prior to the holiday) shall receive pay for each such holiday, provided the employee worked on the working day preceding the holiday and the working day following the holiday. An employee's pay for each such holiday shall be an amount equal to his regular hourly rate, multiplied by eight (8).
15-04
An employee who is . absent on his last regular workday before and/or his first regular workday after the holiday will qualify for holiday pay (as set out in 15-03 above) if such absence is paid for under Article 17 - Paid Time Off, has been approved by the Company. or is €or just cause, provided, however, that holiday pay shall not be payable if the employee is eligible for payment for the day on which the holiday is observed under Worker's Compensation, the Long Term Disability Plan or the Guaranteed Wage Plan. An employee who is eligible far payment for the day on which the holiday is observed under the Weekly Indemnity Plan, shall receive as pay ’for the holiday an amount equal to the holiday pay set out in clause 15-03, less the amount he received for that day under the Weekly indemnity Plan.
76
15.05
In the event that an employee is required or called in to work on any of the holidays referred to above and he is assigned less than eight (8) hours work, he will receive pay for at least four (4) hours in an amount equal to two (2) times his regular hourly rate,
15.06
Should an employee agree to work on any of the holidays mentioned above, if requested to do so by the Company, the Company shall, at the option of the employee, pay such an employee at the appropriate overtime rate for all work performed by him and required by the Company on such holiday, in addition to:
(a) pay for the holiday, or
tb) allowing the employee to retain the holiday with pay as a "floater" to be granted to the employee at his request, with pay, in lieu of such holiday.
77
ARTICLE 16 VACATIONS
16.01
Every regular employee who, during the life of this Agreement, completes a year cf continuous service with the Company, will qualify for a vacation with pay.
16.02
The length cf vacation cf which each employee will be entitled will be governed by the total length of his continuous service with the Company, and will be determined from the schedule in clause 16.04 below.
16.03
The amount of vacation pay to which each employee is entitled in respect to his vacation entitlement under clause 16.04 below, shall be an amount equal to his regular hourly rate, multiplied by forty (40) hours, for each week cf vacation.
78
16.04
Schedule of Vacation with Pay Entitlement During the Life of This Agreement
LENGTH OF SERVICE LENGTH OF VACATION
1 but less than 3 years 2 weeks 3 but less than 8 years 3 weeks 8 but less than 15 years 4 weeks 15 but less than 20 years 5 weeks 20 but less than 25 years 6 weeks 25 or more years 7 weeks
Employees	with	less than	one (1)
year cf	continuous service		in any
calendar	year	shall be granted a	
vacation	with	pay on the	following
basis :			
	(i)	if seniority	attained
by June 30th -		one (1) week,	
	(ii)	if seniority	attained
after June 30th — a pro-rated vacation entitlement based on time worked during that year, with pay in an amount equal to 4% of earnings, or an amount equal to one (1) week pro-rated at his regular hourly rate, whichever is greater.
79
If the employee during that year of service in respect c£ which the vacation is granted, has been absent from work (in the aggregate) for more than sixty-six (66) working days (Monday through Friday) due to layoff or any other approved absence (other than Weekly Indemnity, Long Term Disability, Maternity Leave, or Worker's Compensation), then vacation pay and entitlement shall be calculated on a pro-rated basis of the above.
16.05
(a)	When an employee has commenced his vacation, he shall not be required to work during his vacation, except by mutual agreement.
(b)	In the event that an employee becomes ill or is injured, or a bereavement occurs, after having commenced his vacation, he shall at that time have the remainder of that period of his scheduled vacation postponed and rescheduled at another time to be mutually agreed upon between the employee and his immediate supervisor. To qualify under this clause for such a postponed vacation, the employee must, at the time c£ such disability or
■80-
bereavement, immediately contact his immediate supervisor car the personnel department, and qualify for benefits under the Weekly Indemnity Plan oc Bereavement Leave.
16.06
Should one or more of the holidays referred to in clause 15-01 fall within the period of an employee's vacation, he may request an additional day off, with pay, in lieu of each such holiday. If an employee does not elect time off in lieu of vacation containing such holiday(s), his vacation pay shall be increased by an amount equal to his regular hourly rate, multiplied by eight (8), for each such holiday.
16.07
Every employee will, upon request, be paid immediately prior to going on vacation, by separate cheque for each week of vacation with pay. the vacation pay to which he is entitled.
16.08
(a)	Employees who are
entitled to two (2) or more weeks of vacation . may take up to two (2) consecutive weeks vacation during the period between the second Monday in June and the second Friday in September.
81
{b)	Employees who are
entitled to seven (7) ok more weeks of vacation may take an additional week of vacation during the period between the second Monday in June and the second Friday in September.
(c)	To provide employees with reasonable opportunities to plan and arrange their vacation periods, the following procedure shall apply:
(i) On or before January 31st cf each calendar year, the Company shall post a notice requesting all employees to submit their choice cf dates to the Personnel Department.
(ii) Employees shall be allowed until March 31st ta submit their choice of dates for vacation during that calendar year,
(iii) If an employee fails to submit his choice of dates by March 31st, he shall lose any preference in choice of dates based on seniority, Such an employee shall submit his choice of dates as soon as possible to facilitate the preparation and completion of the vacation schedule.
-82-
(d) Subject to the limitations cf clauses 16.08 (a) and (b) above, preference in regard to the available vacation dates will be given, in order cf seniority, to employees within each occupational group and department.
16.09
Vacation Pav on Termination
Every employee whose employment with the Company is terminated during the life of this Agreement, shall be entitled to a vacation pay allowance based on the length of his continuous employment with the Company, in respect of which he has not received a paid vacation, in accordance with clause 16.04 above. Such payment shall be as provided for in clause 16.03 for any vacation earned but not taken prior to his last anniversary cf employment, plus a pro-rated payment for vacation earned since his last anniversary to his termination date. Employees who retire during the calendar year shall also be entitled to receive their full vacation pay bonus, based on their vacation entitlement that year, upon retirement.
•83
16.10
Vacation fay Bonus
Employees who have three (3) or more years c£ continuous service will be paid a vacation bonus of 20% c£ their normal vacation pay entitlement. Such bonus will be paid to all employees in a lump payment on the second pay period of June in each year.
-84-
ARTICLE 17 PAID TIME OFF
17.01
Sick Leave
Ca) . On January 1st of each calendar year, all regular employees will be credited with six (6) days of sick leave for that year at their regular hourly rate, multiplied by eight (8) for each such day. These days are to be used to offset loss of pay caused by occasional illnesses <£ up to three (3) working days which are not covered by the Weekly indemnity Plan. Any unused portion c£ sick leave will be paid to the employee before Christmas.
(b)	Employees	who	attain
seniority during the calendar year -shall be credited with four (4-) hours at their regular hourly rate for each full month worked from the date they attained seniority.
(c)	Employees who terminate their employment or retire during the calendar year shall receive any unused sick Leave benefits pro-rated at one-half (1/2) day (at their regular hourly rate then in effect) for each full month worked from January 1 to their termination date. In the event of the death of an employee such payment shall be made to his named beneficiary, if any, or to his estate.
■85
(d)	Highway Drivers and
Helpers when on a four (4) day week, shall,	if eligible for sick
leave pay, be paid in an amount equal to their regular hourly rate, multiplied by ten (10) for any days absent during such a week, up to the maximum of forty-eight (48) hours.
17-02
Jury Duty, Appearances in Court
An employee who is called for Jury Duty, or who is subpoenaed to appear in court as a Crown witness, or who is required to appear before any court, commission, board or tribunal in the Province cf New Brunswick in any matter relating to his employment with the Company, will receive €or each day of necessary absence on that account, the difference between his regular earnings for that day and the amount of any fee received, provided the employee furnishes the Company with a certificate cf service and satisfactory evidence as to the amount of fee received.
86
17.03
Bereavement Leave
In the event of a death cf the wife, husband, child, mother, father, brother, sister, mother-in-law, father-in-law,	son-in-1 a w	or
daughter-In-law, which shall include step-relatives {child, mother, father, sister, or brother) and common-law spouse of an employee, that employee will be granted time off by the Company, without loss cf regular earnings, for not more than three (3) consecutive calendar days. If an additional day is necessary to enable the employee to attend the funeral, the employee will be granted the day, without loss of regular earnings. In the event of the death of the brother-in-law, sister-in-law, grandparent, grandchild, uncle or aunt of an employee, that employee will be granted one (1) day, wiihout loss of regular earnings, for the purpose cf attending the funeral.
87
ARTICLE 18
WORKER'S COMPENSATION SUPPLEMENT
18.01
The Company will pay a supplement to any regular employee, who is unable to work due to a disability that entitles him to Worker's Compensation benefits, resulting from an illness or injury while at work. The amount cf such supplement shall be in an amount equal to seventy-five percent (75%) of such an employee's regular hourly rate, multiplied by eight (8) for each day of such absence, less any compensation received under a Worker' s Compensation claim. Such supplement will be paid while the employee is receiving his benefits from the Worker's Compensation Board, or until the employee becomes eligible for benefits under the Long Term Disability Plan. The Company will continue to pay such an- employee such supplement, subject to the employee endorsing payments received from Worker's Compensation payable to the Company, or arranging with the Worker's Compensation Board to have such payments sent directly to the Company.
-88-
ARTICLE 19 EMPLOYEE BENEFITS
19.01
The Company shall continue the existing Employee Benefit and Pension Plan, with the improvements to such plans, which are summarized in Appendix "C"	- Employee Benefit
Plans	and Appendix "DM -	Pension
Pian,	attached	hereto	and	forming
part of this Agreement and which shall not be changed without the agreement of the Union. Details of these benefits and plans shall be as set forth in the Master Policies and Plan referred to in Appendices "C" and ''D". Should there be any dis-. pute in relation to these pians, the terms- cf the Master Policy or Plan shall govern. The Company is responsible for the application and administration of these plans.
19.02
The employee	benefits	and	pension
plan	referred	to in	clause 19.02
above, shall be the following:
89
Appendix "C" Employee Benefits
Weekly Indemnity Plan
Long Term Disability Plan
Group Life Insurance Plan
Accidental Death, and Dismemberment
Plan
Extended Health Care Plan (Blue Cross)
(which includes major medical, prescription
drugs, hearing and vision care, etc.) Dental Care Plan
Appendix "D” Pension Plan
Moosehead Breweries Limited Pension Plan
19-03
Weekly Indemnity Pay
(a) Employees absent due to illness or non-occupational injury and entitled to Weekly Indemnity Benefits, shall be paid an amount equal to their weekly benefit entitlement each pay day during their disability.
-90-
tb> Such employees will be required to submit completed Weekly Indemnity claim forms as required by the insurer to continue to receive full Weekly Indemnity pay in subsequent pay periods. It is understood that Weekly Indemnity Benefit cheques will be endorsed by the employee payable to the Company and returned to the Company.
-91-
ARTICLE 20 GENERAL
20.01
Local Union President
The Company and the Union agree that the employee holding the office of Pi-esident of the Local Union shall be granted paid time off on the basis of one <1) day, eight (8) hours each month, at his regular hourly rate, to enable him to attend to matters related to the administration of this Agreement and his duties as President. The employee holding the office of President, shall also be paid a premium of twenty— -five cents (25£) per hour above his regular hourly rate, for all hours paid for each week, to a maximum of forty (40) hours.
92
ARTICLE 21
DURATION OF AGREEMENT, . RENEWAL AND AMENDMENT
21.01
(a)	This Agreement shall be
effective from April 6,	1983 and
shall remain in full force and effect through December 31,	1984. Either
party to this Agreement desiring to negotiate a new Agreement shall give notice to the other party, in writing, at any time within the sixty {60} day period prior to the expiration date. Unless such notice of desire to negotiate is given, the Agreement shall automatically be renewed, without change, from year to year thereafter, until such time as notice is given, with the sixty (60) day period prior to the annual expiration date, Following receipt of such notice, by either party, of intention to renegotiate or modify the existing Agreement, a joint conference will be held for the purpose of commencing negotiations for a new Agreement.
(b)	Following receipt of notice of desire to negotiate, within the period referred to above, cr within such further period as the parties may agree upon, the parties shall meet, bargain in good faith and make every reasonable effort to conclude an Agreement.
93
(c) It is agreed and understood between the parties to this Agreement that all provisions of this Agreement are to remain in full force and effect until negotiations are completed and/or conciliation proceedings exhausted.
In Witness Whereof the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be executed by their respective duly authorized representatives at the City of Saint john, in the Province of New Brunswick, this 6th day of April, 1983-
FOR THE UNION FOR THE COMPANY
D. Cyr________ Mark C, Trask
R. Goodin	L. J. Barry
D. S. Messer
94
Y
APPENDIX"A"
WAGES AND JOB CLASSIFICATIONS
Classifications
Production Department
Baler Operator Carton Makeup Operator Depa'lletizer Operator Filler Operator Labeller Operator Packer Operator Palletizer Operator Saw Operator Uncaser Operator
Hourly Waffe Rates
Effective April 6 1983_______________
January 1
1984
$ 13.45
13.45
13.45 13-35
13.45
13.45
13.45
13.45
13.45
$14.45
14-45
14.45
14.45
14.45 14-45
14.45 14-45
14.45

Production Maintenance
Oiler
Maintenanceman "B"
Maintenanceman "A"
Brewing Department
Carbonating Man Fermenting Room Man Keg Filler Operator Kettlem an
Engineering Department
4th Class Stationary Engineer 3rd Class Stationary Engineer Electrician (Journeyman)
Maintenanceman (Helper)
Maintenanceman "B"
Maintenanceman "A"
-96-
13.50
14.58
15-31
13.52
13.52 13.45
13.52
13.56
15.31
15.31
13.31 14.58
15.31
*14.
15.
16.
14.
14.
14.
14.
14.
16.
16.
14.
15.
16.
0> Oi to to CO <Jt	C/i -t- tn Ln	to cn yj
H OOH o\	to Cn to to	M 00 o
______eerlng
Painter 1	"B"
Welder 11
tment c 'd
13.51
14.58
15.31
14.51
15-58
16.31
Shipping and Receiving Checker
Fork Lift Operator Hospitality Steward Stores Clerk Station Wagon Driver Driver's Helper Truck Driver
Highway Driver (Tractor Trailer) Fork Lift Mechanic A Yard Service
$13.45
13.45
13.45
13.45
13.45
13.31
13.45
13.60
15.31
13.45
$14.45
14.45
14.45
14.45
14.45
14.31
14.45
14.60
16.31
14.45
97
All other Departments and General
General Labour Probationary Employee Potential Regular Employee
Temporary Employee
Supervisor y Personne I
Relieving Foreman
13.31
8.68
13.31 7.22
$14.31
9.28
14.31
7.74
13.76
14.76
98
1. Cost c£ Living Allowance {COLA)
The Company agrees that a Cost c£ Living Allowance will be paid to regular employees for all hours worked, including vacations and paid holidays, in the period from January
1,	1984 to December 31,	1984, the
first pay period following publication of the December, 1984 Consumer Price Index, (1971 = 100) on the basis of .0l£ per hour for each -3 change in the Consumer Price Index, (1971 =	100) in the
period from January 1,	1984 to
December 31,	1984 calculated by
subtracting the Consumer Price Index (1971	- 100) for the month c£
December, 1983 after adding thereto eight and one-half percent (8 1/2%) c£ the December, 1983 Consumer Price Index (1971 = 100), from the Consumer Price Index (1971 '= 100) for the month of December, 1984.
2.	Retroactivity
For the period from January 1, 1983 until the .day preceding the effective date of the new rates set. forth in this Agreement, the . across-the-board increase will be payable to all regular employees and potential regular employees who are still in the employ of the Company on the date of ratifications, or have retired during that period, in an amount
99
equal to $1.00 per hour. Such payment shall be made as soon as practical following ratification for al-1 hours worked during that period.
3.	Tool Allowanr<>
The Company agrees to replace all tools for tradesmen, required to perform their work. which require replacement due to breakage, unusability due to normal wear and tear. or theft.
4.	Hospitality Steward
The Company and the Union agree that, in the event a vacancy occurs in the job of Hospitality Steward, the prime Considerations for candidates for the job will be, (1) ability to do the job, (2) disability causing difficulty to perform work in any other jab in the bargaining unit, (3) seniority. In cases where an employee requires the job due to (2) above, these three (3) factors will be given equal value points and the employee with greater ooints and seniority shall be given the job, where there is a choice to be made between	two	(2) or more
applicants.
100-
5.	Progression Within Maintenanceman "A" Classification
Employees qualified for progression to Maintenanceman "A" status will be reviewed annually. If not considered qualified, they will be given the reasons for the decision and shall have recourse to the grievance procedure if they are not satisfied with review, or the reasons given. If qualified, they will be reclassified as Maintenanceman "A".
6. Relieving Foreman — Premium
An employee, while performing work as a Relieving Foreman, whose regular rate is 36£ per hour or more above the differential applicable to a Relieving Foreman under Appendix shall be paid a premium c£ 36g per hour above the highest rate paid to the employees under his direction or his classification, whichever. is greater.
7- Probationary Tradesmen
Probationary tradesmen shall be paid ten cents (10£) per hour less than their classification rate when hired and until they become a regular employee.
101
APPENDIX "B"
GUARANTEED WAGE PLAN
AGREEMENT between Moosehead Breweries Limited and Local Union No. 362 of the Canadian Union c£ United Brewery, Flour, Cereal, Soft Drink and Distillery Workers.
WHEREAS the Company has entered into a Collective Agreement with the above named Union covering the Bargaining Unit in Saint John, New Brunswick,
AND WHEREAS the said Parties have agreed to make this supplementary Agreement which is to be a supplement to the said Collective Agreement, and any grievances arising out of the administration of this supplement may be dealt with under the Grievance Procedure of the Collective Agreement.
NOW THEREFORE the Parties agree to the continuation of the Guaranteed Wage Plan as hereinafter set forth with such continuation to become effective on the 6th day c£ April. 1983 or on any later date on which approval for continuation has been received from the Federal Government holding that:
102
<a) The Plan meets the requirement of Employment and Immigration Canada with respect to Supplemental Unemployment Benefit Plans,
(b)	Payments by the Company pursuant to this Flan will be classed as deductible expenses For corporate income tax purposes, and,
(c)	The receipt by employees of the benefits provided by this Plan will not disqualify such employees from receiving any part of the Unemployment Insurance Benefits to which they would otherwise be entitled.
1.	Purpose
The purpose of this Plan is to provide a method of guaranteeing income to certain employees who are laid off and separation pay in certain cases.
2.	Eligibility for Participation in
the Plan
Any regular hourly-rated employee having at least one year cf seniority at the date cf his lay-off from the bargaining unit will be eligible to participate in this Plan.
103
3. Exceptions
This Plan has no application to and provides no benefits for:
{al Employees who have been laid off for disciplinary reasons and if such lay-off is questioned under the Grievance Procedure of the Collective Agreement final disposition of any grievance will determine the employee's status under the Plan.
(b)	Employees	who	have	been
laid off because of any strike, lockout, slowdown, picketing or other action by employees of this Company or	by	employees	of	any	other
employer who are represented for collective bargaining purposes by the National Union or by any Local Union thereof, or successors thereof.
(c)	Employees	who	have	been
terminated because of specific direction or decree from any governmental authority which has the effect of curtailing any cf the Company's operations, unless :
104
(i)	the direction or decree is the result of an illegal act committed by the Company or one cf its representatives, or
(ii)	the direction or decree purports to change the method cf beer distribution or beer retailing within the province of New Brunswick; or
(d)	Employees who have been laid off because cf any act of war car the hostile act of any foreign power or by any act cf sabotage or insurrection or by any act of God.
[e)	Employees who are laid cff and who have arranged with the Company to take leave cf absence without pay for a specific period in lieu of their layoff, These employees will be deemed ta have opted out of the Plan for such period.
4. Disqualification for Benefits
An employee who has been laid off and who would otherwise be eligible for participation in the Plan shall not receive any payments under the Plan for any week:
105
(i)	In	which	he	has
been	on	layoff	and	has	failed	to
apply for U.l. benefits, or in which he has been disqualified or disentitled from U.l. benefits by any reason other than serving a two (2) week waiting period.
(ii}	In	which	he	has
been	on	layoff	and	has	failed	to
keep himself registered for employment with the Canada Manpower Centre in those cases where such registration is necessary to qualify for U.l. benefits or for reduction of U. 1. waiting period.
(iiij	In	which	he	has
failed	or	refused to	accept	employ-
ment deemed suitable for him by the Unemployment Insurance Commission.
(iv)	In	which	he	has
failed	to	accept	and	report	for	any
appropriate work assignment of at least me normal working day unless excused for reasonable cause.
(v)	In which he is in receipt of a benefit provided by the Company's insured Weekly Indemnity or Long Term Disability Plans.
-106-
(vi) After he has become entitled to receive any pension under the Company or Government Pension Plan.
(vii) In respect cf which he is qualified for compensation from the Workers Compensation Board for any compensable accident of illness.
5.	Definitions
For the purpose of this Plan:
"Wages" shall mean actual earnings for work performed and vacation pay, payment for any leave of absence with pay granted, e.g. jury duty, bereavement pay, payment for Statutory Holidays and call-in pay,
"Week11 shall mean the Company’s payroll week.
"Compensated and available hours" means as applied to any particular week far any employee:
(a)	All hours worked by the employee for the Company or for any other employer in such week, pl us
(b)	All hours not worked by the employee in such week but for which he received wages from any employer, plus
107
(c)	All	hours	scheduled	in
such week for an employee who is not on layoff and which he has not worked for any reason other than lack cf work, pl us
(d)	All	hours	scheduled	in
such week for an employee who is on layoff and which he has not worked for any	reason	other	than lack	cf
work after being given reasonable notice according to the established practice cf the Company that such scheduled hours were available to be worked by him.
"Week cf layoff" means a week in which the employee's compensated and available hours are less than forty (AO).
6.	Benefits Provided for Laid Off Employees
Subject to the terms and conditions cf the Plan as herein set out each eligible employee who is laid off from the Bargaining Unit shall receive in addition to any wages earned in the week a benefit from the Plan for each week cf layoff calculated by determining the product of items 1,	2 and 3 below
and deducting from such product the sum of item A below.
108-
(1)	Seventy percent (70%) for eligible employees as hereinabove defined.
(2)	The straight time hourly rate c£ the employee in effect as of time cf layoff.
(33 The excess of forty (40) over the compensated and available hours of the employee.
(4) The actual benefit, if any, for which such employee is eligible under the Unemployment Insurance Act for such week.
7. Employee Benefits During Layoff
An employee who is laid off continues to participate in the Employee Benefit PLans of the Company applicable to employees in his Bargining Unit to the end of the month following the last month in which he has worked in the Bargaining Unit, or until the end of the last month during which he has drawn a benefit under this Plan, whichever is the later. Employee Benefit Plans for the purpose cf this section does not include the Pension Plan or the Company's insured Weekly Indemnity and Long Term Disability Plans which cover only indemnity for wages actually lost because of illness or accident,
109
TABLE "A"
Completed Years of Seniority	Maximum
Determined at the date of first layoff in any twelve month
period_________________________ ________________
15 Years or More 10 Years or More 5 Years or More A Years or More 3 Years or More 2 Years or More 1 Year or More
78
65
52
AS
35
25
15
110
Benefit Entitlement
Weeks of Benefits Weeks of Benefits Weeks of Benefits Weeks of Benefits Weeks of Benefits Weeks of Benefits Weeks of Benefits
The maximum number of weeks of benefits which an employee may use during any twelve (12) month period commencing at the date cf first layoff shall not exceed his Maximum Benefit Entitlement determined at the date cf first layoff in any twelve month period in accordance with Table "A" above.
Each eligible employee’s weeks of benefits shall be decreased by cne week for each week in respect of which he is on layoff and in receipt of benefits for more than thirty-two (32) hours; and by 4/5th of one week for each week in which he is on layoff and in receipt of benefits for more than twenty-four (24) hours; and by 3/5th of one week €or each week in which he is on layoff and in receipt of benefits for more than sixteen (16) hours; and by 2/5th of one week for each week in which he is on layoff and in receipt of benefits for more than eight (8)
111
hours; and by 115th of a week in which he is on layoff and in receipt of benefits for eight (8) hours or less; and his weeks of benefits shall also be decreased by one week for each week in which he is cn layoff but was disqualified for any of the reasons set out in subsections (i), (ii), Ciii) and (iv) of Section 4.
9- Deductions
Any payment made under this Plan shall be subject to any deductions required by Federal, Provincial or Municipal authority or by the provisions cf the Collective Agreement, or by voluntary authorization from the employee concerned,
10. Separation Pay
A n employee shall be eligible for a separation payment as set forth below if on any date during his layoff the hours scheduled for him during the previous twelve consecutive months were less than fifty percent (50%) of normal full-time hours if he is not eligible for any Company or Government pension or far benefits under the Company's insured Weekly Indemnity or Long Term Disability Plans.
112
However, if the Company permanently discontinues an operation, an employee laid off as a result thereof may	apply	for	and	receive
separation pay without waiting the six months' period.
An employee eligible for a separation payment hereunder. must apply fcr it nut later than six months after he first becomes eligible therefore, otherwise his right to such payment shall be cancelled.
In special cases where a laid off employee appears to have little prospect of recall to regular work within a period of six months he may request immediate termination and severance pay, and with the concurrence of the Company and the Union this	may	be	granted
not—withstanding the eligibility clause above.
If an employee applies for and accepts a separation payment hereunder his employment is terminated and his seniority and other rights under the Collective Bargaining Agreement are cancelled.
The amount of the separation payment of an eligible employee shall be equal to the sum of:
113
(a)	One week's base earnings {computed on the basis of his hourly rate in effect as cf time of layoff) multiplied by the number of his completed years of seniority as of the last day he actively worked in the Bargaining Unit, plus
(b)	$85.00 multiplied by a
number equal to the number of unused weeks of benefit entitlement which an employee has to his credit at the date of his separation. (Effective September 1,	1983 amend
$85.00 to $90.00. Effective September
I,	1984 amend to $95.00).
II.	Applications
Employees shall be required to observe such rules and follow such procedures and make such reports and applications as shall be prescribed by the Company after consultation with the Union. The wilful falsification of any fact material to the determination of an employee's benefit rights under the Plan shall result in the forfeiture of any benefit rights he may have under the Plan for a period of twelve (12) months subsequent to the discovery of such falsification, and this shall not preclude any other disciplinary action which may be imposed subject to the Grievance Procedure of the Collective Agreement.
114
12.	Reporting
The Company will make periodic
reports to the Union while employees are laid off and receiving benefits under the Plan and quarterly if no employees are on layoff, giving the Union complete information as to the number of employees who have been laid off, the duration thereof, the payments made to each individual under the Plan, the number cf ineligible and disqualified employees, and such other similar information as may be relevant.
13.	Duration of Agreement
This Agreement shall continue until December 31,	1984. During negoti-
ations for renewal of the relevant Collective Agreement, the Union is free to request amendments to this Agreement which shall also be part of such negotiations, but on the understanding that any amendments to this Agreement will not take effect any earlier than January 1, 1985.
115
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto have affixed their signatures this 6th day of April,1983-
FOR THE UNION	FOR THE COMPANY
D. Cyr______ Mark Trask
R. Goodin	L. J. Barry
D. R. Messer
116
APPENDIX "C"
EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS MOOSEHEAD BREWERIES LIMITED SAINT JOHN, NEW BRUNSWICK Outline of Insured Employee Benefits:
The terms and conditions c£ the benefits set out below shall be governed by the Master Policies with the insurers. The effective dates for the improved coverage are indicated appropriately. The full premium cost of the benefits referred to below shall be paid by the Company.
1. Life Insurance
All eligible employees will continue to be insured for an amount c£ $25,000 in the event cf death from any cause. The amount of insurance shall be increased to $27,000 effective May 1,	1983 and to $28,000
effective January 1,	1984, for
employees actively at work on those days.
Employees not actively at work on the above dates shall only be provided increased insurance coverage upon their return to active employment.
117-
Upon retirement at age 65, or upon retirement after age 60 with 30 years of credited service, coverage will be reduced to an amount of $3,000.
2.	Accidental Death and Dismember-
ment Benefits
In	the	case	of	death	by non-
occupational accident, a principle amount cf $25,000 will be paid to the named beneficiary of an employee. The amount cf insurance shall be increased to $27,000 effective May 1,	1983,	and	to	$28,000	effective
January 1,	1984, far all. employees
actively at work on those dates.
Employees not actively at work on the above dates shall only be provided increased insurance coverage upon their return to active employment.
in	the	event	of	loss cf	two (2)
members of the body by accidental means, the full amount will be payable'. Similarly, two-thirds (2/3) of the amount will be payable for the loss of one (1) member.
118
The Life Insurance -and Accidental Death and Dismemberment Benefits referred to above are as set forth in the Group Accident and Sickness Policy with The Canada Life Assurance Company and The Continental Insurance Company respectively.
3- Weekly Indemnity and Long Term
Disability Benefits
(To be reviewed and updated and then summarized).
The Weekly Indemnity Benefits referred to above are as set forth in the Group Accident and Sickness Insurance Policy.
The Long Term Disability Benefits referred to above are as set forth in the Group Term Insurance Policy Providing Long Term Disability Benefits, Group Policy Md. 12883 — G.D. with the Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada.
4. Extended Health Care Benefits
AL1 eligible employees shall continue to be covered for Supplementary Hospital, Extended Health, Prescription Drug and Dental Coverage as set forth in the Group Health Contract, Group Number M7303, 7303-1
119-
and 2 with Maritime Hospital Service Association, doing business as Blue Cross of Atlantic Canada. Effective May 1,	1983, all of the benefits
referred to in this policy, with the exception cf Dental Coverage, shall be improved as provided for in the Summary of Health Care Benefits, including the Group Travel Plan, with Vision Care Benefits maximum expense for lenses and frames cf 4175 per person, attached.
The Dental Plan maximum per year for basic benefits shall be increased to $600.
Co—pay on prescription drugs to be
$1.00.
120
APPENDIX "D"
MOOSEHEAD BREWERIES LIMITED PENSION PLAN
Effective July 1,	1974	employees of
Moosehead Breweries Limited, will be eligible for membership in	the
Retirement Plan for hourly paid employees. The main provisions of the text of the Pension Plan, including amendments as at January 1,	1983 and January 1, 1984 are
summarized below.
I.. Eligibility
Employees shall be eligible for membership on the later of July 1, 1974 or on the 1st cf the month following the date of becoming a regular employee.
2. Employee Contributions
No employee contributions will be required after July 1st, 1974*
3* Normal Retirement Date
First of r the month following his sixty-fifth birthday.
4* Basic Benefit
A monthly pension payable from age
-121-
sixty-five (65) equal ta $7.50 multiplied by the number c£ years of credited service after July 1, 1974 to December 31, 19795.	(1) For members who
retire on or after January 1,	1983
the following shall apply:
(a)	Minimum Pension at Normal
Retirement	~
A member retiring at age sixty—five (65) with at least thirty (30) years of credited service is entitled to a supplement, if necessary, to provide a monthly pension of $861. from Company Plans and Canada Pension Plan combined.
If a member retires at age 65 with less than 30 years of credited service, the supplement to his accrued pension and the offsetting Canada Pension Plan benefits will, be reduced in proportion to the ratio that the number of years of credited service bears to 30 years.
(b)	Calculation of Pension Benefit Accrual
— for service after January 1,	1983:
a monthly pension equal to $16.50 multiplied by the number of years of credited service;
122
- for service to December 31,	1982,
the pension benefits accrued ta each member remain unchanged.
(c)	Special Early Retirement
A member retiring after having attained age 60 with at least 30 years of credited service is entitled to an immediate accrued pension equal to the amount of accrued pension to his credit for service to date of early retirement, without reduction for the earlier date of retirement.
This pension will be supplemented by any amount necessary to provide a monthly pension of $990. from Company Plans payable until the member first becomes eligible to receive Canada Pension Plan Retirement Benefits. Thereafter, the member will receive a supplement, if necessary to provide a monthly pension of $86l. from Company Plans and Canada Pension Plan combined,
123
(d)	Disability_____Retirement
[Effective January 1, 1983)
For employees having attained age 50 and completed 10 years of service who become disabled and retire under the disability provisions of the pension plans, a supplementary benefit cf $6. per month multiplied by the number cf years of credited service up to a maximum cf 30 years. The supplement is payable until eligible to receive either a statutory disability or retirement benefit. This supplement will be paid in addition to such employees’ full accrued pension at time of disability retirement.
5	(ii)	For members who
retire on or after January 1,	1984
the following shall apply:
(a) Minimum. Pension at Normal Retirement
A member retiring at age 65 with at least 30 years of credited service is entitled	to	a	supplemnt, if
necessary, to provide a monthly pension of $944. from Company Plans and Canada Pension Plan combined.
124
If a member retires act age 65 with less than	30 years	cf	credited
service, the supplement to his accrued pension and the offsetting Ca-nada Pension Plan benefits will be reduced in proportion to the ratio that the number of years c± credited service bears to 30 years.
(b)	Calculation	of	Pension
Benefit Accrual
- for service after January 1, 1984: a monthly pension equal to $17*25 multiplied by the number cf years cf credited service.
(c) Special Early Retirement
A member retiring after having attained age 60 with at least 30 years of credited service is entitled to an immediate accrued pension equal to the amount of accrued pension to his credit for service to date of early retirement, without reduction for the earlier date of retirement.
This pension will be supplemented by any amount necessary to provide a monthly pension of $1040. from Company Plans payable until the member first becomes eligible to receive Canada Pension Plan Retirement Benefits. Thereafter, the member will receive a supplement, if necessary to provide a monthly pension of $944* from Company Plans and Canada Pension Plan combined.
-125-
6. Early Retirement
At any time after fifty-five 155} and completion cf ten (10) years of service, the employee may elect to retire, in which case his accrued pension for service from July 1, 1974 will be reduced by one-third (1/3) percent for each month he is under age sixty-five (65) when his pension commences.
7.	Credited Service
Credited service is service for which required contributions have been made prior to July 1, 1974.
Credited service after July 1,	1974,
in any calendar year will be one-tenth of a year for each ISO hours worked or paid for, after becoming a member of the Plan, bo a maximum of 1800 hours.
Hours paid for include all hours compensated from payroll, vi2: vacations, paid holidays and sick pay, and periods for which benefits are received as provided for under the Long Term Disability Plan and Workmen's Compensation.
8.	Termination of Service
The non-contributory pension benefits accrued for service from July 1, 1974 will be payable as a deferred pension commencing at normal retirement
-126-
date, provided the employee has completed at least ten (10) years cf credited service.
9-' Death After Retirement
The pension for service from July 1, 1974 is payable for life and ceases at the employee's death. However, at retirement the employee may, if he has been married for at least one year, elect to receive a reduced Joint Survivorship Pension with his spouse as joint pensioner. Under this option he will receive ninety (90) percent of the amount of his pension for service from July 1, 1974, at his death his surviving spouse would receive sixty (60) per cent c£ his reduced pension for her remaining lifetime.
10. Death Before Retirement
If the employee dies in service after having attained age fifty-five (55) and completed ten (10) years cf service and if he has been married for at least one year before his death, his surviving spouse will receive a pension in respect cf his service from July 1, 1974 determined as if he had retired as of his date of death, and as if he had elected the Joint Survivorship Pension.
127
11.	Escalation
For employees who retire after July 1,	1974 the basic pension benefit
accrued at retirement (including previous plan but excluding supplement] will be subject to an annual escalation each January 1st with the adjustment to be based on the percentage increase in the Consumer Price Index in the 12 month period preceding September 1st, subject to the maximum increase of 2% in any year.
12.	Previous Plan Benefits
All contributions to the Moosehead Breweries Limited Pension Plan for hourly employees underwritten by the Standard Life Assurance Company under Policy GR P.W. 10664, will discontinue as of June 30,	L974.
Benefits accrued by a participant of that Plan will be determined and fixed to the credit of the Participant for his service to July 1, 1974, and will be payable in accordance with the provisions of that Plan.
128'
APPENDIX "E"
LETTERS OF UNDERSTANDING
The Letters cf Understanding referred to below have been made in relation to the Collective Agreement between the parties referred to, dated, April 6, 1983 , are attached and form part a£ this Appendix "E":
1.	Preference to Contractors Employing Unionized Workers.
2.	Employee Assistance Program.
3.	Work of the Bargaining Unit, Job Vacancies and . New Classification, to be Declared and Posted under Job Posting Provisions c£ the Collective Agreement, dated April 6,1983*
4.	Reclassification of "Temporary
Employees" on	Recall List to
"Potential Regular Employees",
5.	Seniority List - clauses 8.01,
8.02,	8.03,	8.04 and 8.05 of the
Collective Agreement.
6.	Pension "Buy-Back" for Certain Employees.
7-	Kettlemen and Fermenting Room
Employees Option - 3 - 12 Hour Shift Schedule.
129
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING No. 1
BETWEEN :
MOOSEHEAD BREWERIES LIMITED, hereinafter
called "the Company"
AND
LOCAL UNION NO. 362, CANADIAN UNION OF
UNITED BREWERY, FLOUR, CEREAL, SOFT DRINK AND
DISTILLERY WORKERS, hereinafter called
"the Union"
Re:	Preference . to Contractors
Employing Unionized Workers
Where the Company contracts out work to be done within its premises for maintenance and construction to a non-union contractor, it shall advise the Union as to the nature of the work and the name cf the contractors. Whoie price, availability, experience and quality cf work are equal, preference shall be given to contractors employing union personnel. The foregoing shall not apply to outside personnel who periodically service equipment.
-130-
Dated this 6th day of April, 1983, at Saint John, New Brunswick.
FOR THE UNION FOR THE COMPANY
D. Cyr_______ Mark Trask
R. Goodin	L. j. Barry
D. R. Messer
131
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING No. 2
BETWEEN :
MOOSEHEAD BREWERIES LIMITED, hereinafter
called "the Company”
AND
LOCAL UNION NO. 362, CANADIAN UNION OF
UNITED BREWERY, FLOUR, CEREAL, SOFT DRINK AND
DISTILLERY WORKERS, hereinafter called
”the Union"
Re : .Employee Assistance Program
The Local Executive Board of Local Union No. 362, Canadian Union c£ United Brewery, Flour, Cereal, Soft Drink and Distillery Workers and the management of Moosehead Breweries Limited recognize that many health, social and behavioural problems can be successfully treated, and that treatment is in the best interest of the worker, the Union and the Company. Therefore the Local Executive Board of Local Union Mo. 362, Canadian Union of United Brewery, Flour, Cereal, Soft Drink
132
and Distillery Workers	and the
management of Moosehead Breweries Limited have agreed that cf this date April 6,	1983 to work co-
operatively to investigate the feasibility cf establishing	a Joint
Company—Union Employee	Assistance
Program. It is understood that this cooperation will be undertaken within the framework of existing contractual agreements.
A Cooperative Action Group having equal representation' from the Company and the Union will be formed to look into the feasibility of an EAP and to bring forth recommendations including a policy and program design for use in	establishing
a permanent EAP. The primary objective of the EAP shall be to provide effective professional and confidential assistance and access to treatment for those employees in need.
Dated this 6th day of April,1983, at Saint John, New Brunswick.
FOR THE UNION
D- Cyr_______
President
FOR THE COMPANY
Mark Trask______
President
133
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING No. 3 BETWEEN :
MOOSEHEAD BREWERIES LIMITED, hereinafter
called "the Company"
AND
LOCAL UNION MO. 362, CANADIAN
UNION OF
UNITED BREWERY, FLOUR, CEREAL, SOFT DRINK AND
DISTILLERY WORKERS. hereinafter called
"the Union"
Re: Work of the Bargaining Unit, Job Vacancies and New Classification, to be Declared and Posted under Job Posting Provisions of the Collective Agreement, dated April 6,1983.________
Further to the agreement reached between the Company and the Union during negotiations, the parties have agreed that the jcb vacancies and new classification referred to below, will immediately upon the ratification of rhe new Collective Agreement, dated April 6,	1983, be declared
and posted by the Company, pursuant to the Job Posting provisions cf the Collective Agreement:
134
1.	Carbonating and Filterman (1)
2.	Hospitality Steward (1)
Note: On afternoon shift
3- Storeskeeper Cl}
4. Maintenancemon Helper (1)
(Labourerl
5-	Driver's Helpers (5)
It is understood and agreed that all work related to cleaning of the Company's premises (other than the accounting, clerical, executive, sales and supervision offices), which is presently performed by persons outside of the bargaining unit, shall, effective immediately on the date following the date of ratification of the Collective Agreement referred to above, cease to be contracted out and be thereafter assigned to employees in the bargaining unit.
It is also understood and agreed that, in relation to the number and work performed by employees in the classification of Operating Engineer; the Company is currently in the process of introducing certain technological changes on the Soaker, which if successfully installed, shall result in additional further installations of automatic valves on the two (2) Pasteurizer machines. if, following these technological changes, and/or the pending review by the Department of Labour, the Company has satisfied its operational requirements, it shall meet with the Union
-135-
and advise it cf the situation, or in the event it ha5 still not satisfied its operational requirements, it shall meet with the Union and work out a mutually acceptable agreement on the number and working conditions for Operating Engineers, based on the Company's operational requirements. -It is further understood that, in relation to the manpower requirements in the Carton Loft, the Company is in the process of completing modifications and additions to the Carton Formers, which will provide for the semi-automatic feed d material into the Carton Hopper and automatic feed from six (61 pack forming unit to Stuffers. The Company has agreed that it will immediately review its manpower requirements on this operation and that, if required, it will assign additional manpower to the operation until the technological changes referred to have been completed.
136
Dated this 6th day of April, 1983 at Saint John, New Brunswick.
FOR THE UNION
D. Cyr_____
R. Gaudin
FOR THE COMPANY Mark C, Trask L. J. Barry
D. R, Messer
137
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING No. 4
BETWEEN :
MOOSEHEAD	BREWERIES	LIMITED,
hereinafter
called "the Company”
AND
LOCAL UNION NO. 362, CANADIAN UNION OF
UNITED BREWERY, FLOUR, CEREAL, SOFT DRINK AND
DISTILLERY WORKERS, hereinafter called
"the Union"
Re:	Reclassification	cf "Temporary
Employees" on Recall List to "Potential Regular Employees"_______
The Company and the Union have agreed that, effective January 1, 1983, all twenty-one (21) employees on the present "Recall List” for temporary employees will be given by the Company, primary consideration over any other new employee in hiring, assignment cf work, layoffs and recall as provided for in clause 8.04	(d) cf the
Collective Agreement. Effective date cf ratification, such employees shall also be reclassified as "potential regular employees" and be paid from that date the full regular hourly rate for any work which they performed.
138
No temporary employee shall receive credit for any time worked prior to January 1,	1983, for other than va-
cation with pay and paid holidays, as required by legislation or the Collective Agreement.
Date this 6th day c£ April, 1983 at Saint John, New Brunswick.
FOR THE UNION	FOR THE COMPANY
D. Cyr	__Mark C. Trask
tL. Goodin___	L. j. Barry
D. R. Messer
139
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING Yo. 5
BETWEEN :
MOOSEHEAD BREWERIES	LIMITED,
hereinafter
called ”the Company”
AND
LOCAL UNION NO. 362	CANADIAN
UNION OF
UNITED BREWERY, FLOUR, CEREAL, SOFT DRINK AND
DISTILLERY WORKERS, hereinafter called
"the Union"
Re:	Seniority List - clauses 8.01,
8.02	,	8.03 , 8.04 and 8.05 c£ the
Collective Agreement.____________________
The Company and the Union have agreed that in relation to the Seniority List, dated January 17, 1983, all employees	having	established
seniority date prior to December 31, 1970, shall continue io retain the seniority date indicated. All employees appearing on that Seniority List having a seniority date after December 31,	1970, shall
have their seniority date reviewed and a new date established as provided for in clauses 8.01, 8.02,
140
8.03, 8-04 and 8.05 of the Collective Agreement, which shall not be earlier than such an employee's actual date of hiring.
Dated this 6th day of April, 1983 at Saint John, New Brunswick.
FOE THE UNION
D- Cyr________
R. Goodin
FOR THE COMPANY Mark C. Trask L. J. Barry D. R, Messer
141
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING No. 6
BETWEEN :
MOOSEHEAD BREWERIES LIMITED, hereinafter
called "the Company”
AND
LOCAL UNION MD. 362 CANADIAN UNION OF
UNITED BREWERY, FLOUR, CEREAL, SOFT DRINK AND
DISTILLERY WORKERS, hereinafter called
"the Union"
Re:	Pension "Buy-back" for Certain
Employees___________________________
It has been mutually understood and agreed between the Company and the Union that, certain employees have been left in a less advantageous position than most other employees, in celation to their pension entitlement at normal retirement and for special early retirement. This circumstance has resulted from the eligibility for participation requirements that existed under the pension plan in effect during their initial three (3> years of employment, which did not allow them to participate in the pension plan until they have completed three (3) years of employment.
142
To assist such employees in receiving an adjustment to enable them to more equally take advantage <± their normal or special early retirement the Company has agreed to share the cost of this initial three (3) year pension buy-back, on an equally shared basis, with one-half (1/2) paid by the Company and one-half (1/2) paid by the individual employee.
The employees who qualify for this pension buy-back opportunity are the following:
Charles LeBlanc Neil Galbraith Arthur Coleman Sennett Armstrong Gregory O'Neill Ronald Wallace Charles Callan Paul Logan Donald VanTassel Terrance Furlong Francis Hooley Lawrence Merritt
143
Dated this 6th day of April, 1983 at Saint John, New Brunswick
FOR THE UNION p. Cyr________
R. Goodin
FOR THE COMPANY Mark C. Trask
L. ]. Barry
D. R. Messer
144
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING Yo. ' 7 BETWEEN:
MOOSEHEAD BREWERIES LIMITED hereinafter
called "the Company”
AND
LOCAL UNION NO. 362, CANADIAN UNION OF
UNITED BREWERY, FLOUR, CEREAL, SOFT DRINK AND
DISTILLERY WORKERS, hereinafter called
"the Union"
Re:	Kettlemen and Fermenting Roam
Employees Option - 3 - 12 Hour Shift Schedule
1. Notwithstanding the provisions of the Collective Agreement, the Company and the Union agree that Kettlemen and Fermenting Room employees may elect to work on 3 -12 hour shift schedules for a six (6) months trial period and, if then unsatisfied with work on such shifts, may transfer to the seven (7) day cycle shift as presently worked by Stationary Engineers, A copy of the proposed shift schedules are attached.
145
The Company and the Union also agree that, in the event a more desirable shift schedule or arrangement occurs, which is mutually agreed upon between the parties, such alternatives shall be considered and implemented.
2.	Upon commencement of the 3-12 hour shift schedule, in consideration of the nature cf such scheduling, the Company agrees to an increase in the regular hourly rate of all employees, classified as Kettlemen and Fermenting Room Men of 25f per hour on a permanent basis. This rate will also apply for employees relieving. on these jobs.
3.	The Company agrees that present Kettlemen and Fermenting Room employees may elect to transfer ta other jobs and departments. If such an employee elects this option, the Company agrees to "red-circle" their regular job rate at the time of such transfer {not including the 25<t per hour increase referred to in paragraph 2., above), if the rate cf such new job is lower. The affected employees shall have a period of up to three (3) months from the date cf implementation and introduction of the 3-12 hour shift schedule, or
146
any other mutually agreed upon system of shift scheduling, to exercise this option.
4. The Company also agrees that the changes in shift scheduling referred to above, will be worked as production requirement dictate, however, the 25<£ per hour increase referred to in paragraph 2., above, once implemented, will continue to be paid to all such employees, regardless of whether or not they are performing work on such shifts.
5- Schedule for 3-12 Hour Shifts
(a)	Two 12 hour shifts scheduled as follows :
(1)	Shifts will be from 7:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m. and 7:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m.
(2)	Shift commencing at 7:00 p.m. will be deemed ta be worked on the following day - e.g. 7:00 p.m. Sunday will be Monday's work.
(b)	Pay will be as follows:
36 hours @ straight time on a 3 day week
44 hours @ straight rime on a 4 day week.
Plus 4 hours @ overtime rate on a 4 day week.
147
(c)	In a week in which a holiday falls, the two employees who are on shift each earn 32 hours pay and the two employees who are off shift each earn 12 hours pay.
(d)	"B" shift or day shift 7:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.nt. no shift premium will be paid.
'A" shift or night shift 7:00 p.m. to 7:00	a.m.,	midnight	shift premium
will be paid.
(e)	1st day off after shift
completion	will be	considered	as
Saturday or time and one-half day.
2nd day off after shift completion will be considered	as Sunday	or
double time day. (Only one double time day can fall in any seven days, pay	period	Sunday a.m.	to
Saturday p.m.)
3rd and 4th day off will be considered as time and one-half (1 1/21 days.
(f)	Vacation period and pay to be on a 40 hour basis.
(g)	Vacation bonus will be calculated on 40 hours, similar to remainder cf plant personnel.
148
(h) Vacations -	1 week 9
days 3-3-3 2 weeks 15 days 3-3~3-3-3
6. Kettlemen and Fermenting Room employees when working on a 3 - 12 hour shift schedule, shall, if eligible for sick leave pay, be paid in an amount equal to their regular hourly rate, multiplied by twelve (12) for any days absent during such a week, up to the maximum of forty-eight (48) hours.
Dated this 6th day of April 1983 at Saint John, N. A.
FOR THE UNION FOR THE COMPANY
D. Cyr________ Mark C. Trask
R, Goodin_____ L. J. Barry
D. R. Messer
-149-