COCA-COLA REFRESHMENTS CANADA COMPANY
Thorncliffe (the “Company”)
AND
NATIONAL AUTOMOBILE, AEROSPACE, TRANSPORTATION & GENERAL WORKERS UNION OF CANADA AND ITS LOCAL 385 (CAW-CANADA)
(the “Union”)
CAWWTCA
CANADA
Expires - July 26, 2013
00656 (09)
INDEX
ARTICLE TITLE	PAGE
1.	PURPOSE.................................................1
2.	DEFINITIONS.............................................1
3.	REPRESENTATION..........................................3
4.	MANAGEMENT RIGHTS.......................................4
5.	NO STRIKES OR LOCKOUTS..................................5
6.	UNION ACTIVITIES........................................5
7.	GRIEVANCES..............................................8
8.	SENIORITY..............................................11
9.	HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME.............................16
10.	NIGHT SHIFT PREMIUM....................................20
11.	HOLIDAY PAY............................................21
12.	VACATION ............................................. 22
13.	LONG SERVICE LEAVE.....................................26
14.	WORK CLOTHING......................................... 26
15.	BEREAVEMENT PAY........................................27
16.	PAID TIME OFF ........................................ 28
17.	WAGES..................................................29
18.	OPERATIONAL CHANGE.....................................31
19.	SAFETY.................................................33
20.	WORK OF BARGAINING UNIT .............................. 34
21.	HEALTH INSURANCE PLANS.................................35
22.	PAID EDUCATION LEAVE...................................37
23.	SOCIAL JUSTICE FUND....................................37
24.	TOOL REIMBURSEMENT.....................................37
25.	DURATION OF AGREEMENT ................................ 38
APPENDIX A: Rules of Arbitration ..................... 39
THORNCLIFFE
i
INDEX
LETTERS OF INTENT & AGREEMENT	PAGE
1.	Employees' Retirement Plan ......................................................41
2.	New Employee Orientation ........................................................43
3.	Substance Abuse .................................................................44
4.	"Red-Circled" Rates of Pay ......................................................45
5.	Ten-hour Shifts..................................................................46
6.	Advancement of Pay While Off On Medical Leave Pending Approval of Benefits......47
7.	Load Checking ...................................................................48
8.	Spares Lists ....................................................................49
9.	Occupational Health and Safety Act and	Regulations ..........................50
10.	Four Day Ten Hour Work Periods (Original Letter of Agreement Dated February 25, 1997) .. 51
11.	Previous Commitments Renewed ....................................................52
12.	Memorandum of Settlement January 16,	1998Re: Early Retirement....................53
13.	Reprisals .......................................................................58
14.	Seven (7) Day Operations ....................................................... 59
15.	Recall from Layoff (July 30, 2004) ..............................................60
16.	Disability Dispute Resolution Process............................................61
17.	Retiree Benefits.................................................................63
18.	Calendar Year Vacation ..........................................................64
19.	Union Office ....................................................................65
20.	Work Performed at Thorncliffe ...................................................66
21.	Benefit Carrier Issues...........................................................67
22.	Benefit Booklets ................................................................68
23.	Vacation Pay Calculations ...................................................... 69
24.	Union Elections .................................................................70
25.	Sales Equipment Service Technicians	and Trainees ............................... 71
26.	Service Department ..............................................................73
27.	Workplace Accommodations ....................................................... 74
28.	Holidays ........................................................................77
29.	Harassment and Discrimination in the	Workplace...................................78
30.	Human Rights Representative .....................................................79
31.	Change in Start Times ...........................................................80
32.	Hard Layoffs.....................................................................81
33.	Training ........................................................................82
34.	Work Clothing....................................................................83
35.	IPET Layoffs ....................................................................84
36.	Equipment Service Trainees ......................................................85
37.	Layoff Practice .................................................................86
38.	Distribution Ten (10) Hour Shifts................................................87
39.	Alternative Distribution ........................................................88
40.	Equipment Service ...............................................................89
41.	Training Matrix for Equipment Service	Trainee....................................90
42.	Acceptance of Job Posting Trial..................................................92
43.	Carriage of Grievances ..........................................................93
44.	Copies of Collective Agreement...................................................94
45.	Individual Preferences...........................................................95
46.	Route Selection for Red Fleet Delivery	Drivers...................................97
47.	Signing Page Concerning Appendices	and Letters...................................98
THORNCLIFFE	ii
ARTICLE 1 - PURPOSE
1.01	It is the purpose of this Agreement to promote harmonious relations between the Company and its employees and to provide an amicable method of settling differences.
ARTICLE 2 - DEFINITIONS
2.01	The word "employees" wherever used in this Agreement shall mean all employees of the Company at 42 Overlea Blvd., 46 Overlea Blvd. (“Thorndiffe”), save and except office staff, account managers, sales supervisors, operations supervisors and persons above the rank of supervisor.
2.02	A "probationary employee" shall mean an employee who has not yet completed sixty-five (65) days of actual work within a period of six (6) consecutive months. On completion of his/her probationary period, such employee shall be credited with seniority from a date which is the most recent of: (i) the last date of hire; or (ii) a date which is six (6) months prior to the date on which he/she completed his/her probationary period. A probationary employee shall have no rights under the seniority provisions of this Agreement but may be discharged for any reason prior to the successful completion of their probationary period, provided the Company does not act arbitrarily, discriminatory or in bad faith or in contravention of any provision of this Agreement. It is agreed that the standard for dismissing probationary employees as reflected in this section is a lesser standard within the meaning of the Labour Relations Act.
2.03	(a) A “temporary employee” shall mean an employee who shall be used by the
Company to replace regular employees who are absent from work for reasons of vacations, illness and leaves of absence and for extra work required by the Company to meet its sales activities.
(b)	Temporary employees shall not be used to the extent that they cause the layoff, or prevent the hiring, of a full-time employee.
(c)	Temporary employees shall have no seniority rights and their retention during their first sixty-five days of employment shall be solely at the discretion of the Company. After completion of sixty-five days worked, the Company will not dismiss temporary employees without just cause. Such status will not be lost regardless of the shift count tracked in Article 2.03.
(d)	Temporary employees will be assigned work as follows:
(i)	Any temporary employee who has worked less than sixty-five days in a continuous twelve-month period will be offered available work and assigned same in preference to summer students.
(ii)	Any temporary employee who has worked in excess of sixty-five days in a continuous twelve month period will be offered available work and assigned same in preference to those temporary employees who have worked less than sixty-five days in a continuous twelve month period, provided the employee has the qualifications and ability to perform the work. Temporary employees will be assigned work in a priority order i.e. in order to maximize opportunities for obtaining forty (40) hours of work per week, the temporary employee with the most days worked in each department, totalled on a weekly basis, will be assigned work in that department ahead of other temporary employees.
THORNCLIFFE
1
(iii)	To facilitate the assignment of work to temporary employees, the Company
will establish, maintain and post a list of temporary employees at each location, which will indicate each temporary employee’s status, accumulated days worked, updated on a weekly basis. A copy of such list shall be provided to the Union.
(e)	Any temporary employee who has worked in excess of 150 days in a continuous twelve (12) month period will automatically be classified as a regular employee at which time his/her seniority date shall be determined as thirteen (13) weeks prior to that date. It is agreed that days worked to replace two (2) regular full time employees who are away from work and in receipt of long term disability benefits on Mondays, Wednesdays, Thursdays, Fridays and Saturdays shall not count towards the 150 days for the least senior preferred temporary employee so long as such employees remain on long term disability.
(f)	For vacation and pension purposes, he will be credited with one (1) day’s service for every twenty (20) hours worked as a temporary employee in the previous two (2) years.
(g)	During the periods January 1 to March 31 (or the Monday prior to Good Friday, whichever comes first) and October 1 to November 14 in any year, the number of temporary employees employed may not exceed fifteen percent (15%) of the number of regular employees employed in the bargaining unit.
(h)	Temporary employees who are terminated/resigned/leave employment of the Company, if re-hired by the Company, will be deemed to have broken the continuous twelve (12) month period referenced in Article 2.03 (e) and lose their rights as per Article 2.03 (c). These temporary employees if they return will have their shift count restarted at zero for the purposes of Articles 2.03 (c) and 2.03 (e).
2.04	All employees shall be notified, in writing, of the condition of their status as employees, either as full time, probationary or temporary, upon their hiring. Such notification shall be copied to the Union.
2.05	Harassment” as used throughout this Agreement shall refer to any course of vexatious comment or conduct that is known or ought reasonably to be known to be unwelcome and which denies individual dignity, and respect on the following grounds: race, ancestry, place of origin, colour, ethnic origin, citizenship, creed, sex, sexual orientation, age, record of offences, marital status, family status, disability or any grounds that may be specified by the Ontario Human Rights Code or any other applicable legislation.
It is understood that properly discharged supervisory responsibilities are not harassment. The pursuit of frivolous allegations of harassment could have a detrimental effect on the spirit and intent for which this definition has been developed and the pursuit of such allegations will be discouraged.
2.06	“Discrimination” as used in this Agreement shall refer to unequal or differential treatment of
an individual on any of the following grounds: race, ancestry, place of origin, colour, ethnic origin, citizenship, creed, sex, sexual orientation, age, record of offences, marital status, family status, disability or any grounds that may be specified by the Ontario Human Rights Code or any other applicable legislation.
THORNCLIFFE
2
It is understood that properly discharged supervisory responsibilities are not discriminatory. The pursuit of frivolous allegations of discrimination could have a detrimental effect on the spirit and intent for which this definition has been developed and the pursuit of such allegations will be discouraged
ARTICLE 3 - REPRESENTATION
3.01	The Company recognizes the Union as the exclusive bargaining agent of the employees as herein defined.
3.02	The Company and the Union agree there will be no intimidation, harassment, discrimination, interference, restraint or coercion exercised or practised by either of them or their representatives or members with respect to any employee of the Company by reason of membership or non-membership in the Union, union activity or by reason of age, race, creed, colour, national origin, disability, religious affiliation, sex, sexual orientation, marital or family status.
3.03	(a) Every employee shall, as a condition of his/her continued employment, become and
remain a member, in good standing, of the Union.
(b)	The Union agrees that it will not refuse membership to any employee without just cause. Whenever an employee is suspended or expelled from membership the Union will give the Company, in writing, the reasons for such action.
3.04	(a) Every employee shall, as a condition of his/her continued employment, authorize the
Company in writing to deduct from each pay payable to him/her thereafter during the life of this Agreement, and during the life of any subsequent Collective Agreement containing similar provisions, such amount as may from time to time be certified in writing by the Union to the Company as being the amount of Union Dues currently payable.
(b)	Every new regular employee shall complete and sign an application for Membership in the Union and an authorization for deduction from his/her pay of such amount as may at that time be certified by the Union to the Company as being the amount of the Union’s standard Initiation Fee.
(c)	The application for Union membership and authorization for the deduction of initiation fees and dues shall be on forms supplied by the Union.
(d)	Initiation Fees and Union Dues deducted by the Company shall be remitted to the Financial Secretary of the Union prior to the 15th day of the month following the month in which such deductions were made, together with such detail and explanations as may be reasonably required. The deduction statement shall contain the full name of the employee and his starting date. The dues and initiation report will be provided in the form of e-mail (Union to provide e-mail address) or on a computer disk as well as hard copy of the dues report being attached to the remittance cheque. The Company agrees to record the annual dues on the employee’s T4 form. All employees shall be paid weekly via direct payroll deposit. However, employees may be paid by manual cheque provided they notify the Company in writing of such desire.
3.05	(a)	(i)
It is recognized and mutually agreed that management may, from time to time, have occasion to interview employees with respect to their job
THORNCLIFFE
3
performance and that the objective of such interviews is corrective in nature, rather than punitive. Such interviews will normally be conducted on a ‘one on one’ basis, unless the interview could lead to discipline.
(ii)	However, the Employer agrees that, whenever an interview is held with an employee that could become a part of his record regarding his work or conduct, a steward or union representative will be present.
(iii)	Prior to the interview referred to in (ii), the employee and steward will be given an opportunity for consultation, if such is requested.
(iv)	If the meeting referred to in (ii) is held without the steward, any conclusions, verbal or written, will be null and void except when the employee requests the steward to leave, in writing.
(v)	Should any reprimand, warning or disciplinary measure be issued, the employee in question shall receive a copy of such reprimand, warning or disciplinary measure within ten (10) working days of the discovery of the alleged offense, unless an extension of time is requested and granted in order to complete an investigation. The foregoing shall not apply where extensive investigation time is required, provided the Company requests an extension in writing, such extension will not be unreasonably withheld. The Company will also provide a copy of such reprimand, warning or disciplinary measure to the Union.
(vi)	Should the Company find it necessary to relieve an employee from duty with pay, the employee will be permitted fifteen (15) minutes to speak with a steward if a steward is available on premise prior to being sent home. If a steward is not available on premise, the employee will be sent home and the Union will be notified.
3.06	Once each quarter, the Company shall provide the Union with a listing of employees, including all regular, temporary and probationary, showing the last address and telephone number provided to the Company. It shall be the responsibility of each employee to advise the Company regarding their change of address, phone number, dependants or marital status and beneficiary. The Company agrees that the current practice of providing the Union with the number of temporary days worked, by employee, on a weekly basis, will continue for the life of the collective agreement.
ARTICLE 4 - MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
4.01	The Union agrees that, subject to the restrictions imposed by law, the Company has the exclusive right to manage and operate its Plants and equipment and to carry on its business. The Union also agrees that, subject to the restrictions imposed by law or by the terms of this Agreement, the Company has the right to decide from time to time all matters relating to the terms and conditions of employment of the employees, including the duties and conduct to be required of them. The Company agrees that it will not discipline, suspend or discharge any employee without just cause. The Company further agrees that the Union and the employees shall have the right to grieve should the Company exercise any of its functions in violation of, or inconsistent with, any provision of this Agreement.
THORNCLIFFE
4
ARTICLE 5 - NO STRIKES OR LOCKOUTS
5.01	There shall be no strikes or lockouts so long as this Agreement continues to operate. The terms "strikes" and "lockouts" will have the same definitions as those set out in the Labour Relations Act of Ontario.
ARTICLE 6 - UNION ACTIVITIES
6.01	There shall be no Union activities during working hours which interfere with the duties of any employee unless permission is first obtained from the employee's immediate supervisor. Such permission will not be unreasonably withheld and all such time off during an employee's regular working hours shall be without loss of pay.
6.02	The Company will make available for the use of the Union a bulletin board at each Plant whereon the Union may post such notices as it desires to bring to the attention of employees provided, however, that no such notice may be posted at places other than on these bulletin boards and further provided that no such notice may be posted until it has been signed by an Officer of the Union and by a representative of management.
6.03	From time to time during the currency of this Agreement, upon the written request of the Union, the Company will grant leaves of absence without pay to the employees named in such request to enable them to participate in Union activities. No such leave of absence shall be for a period of less than one day or more than seven days except that where a leave is granted to an employee to enable him/her to attend a Union convention, the maximum of seven (7) days may be exceeded to the extent of necessary travel time to the place of convention and return. No more than ten (10) such leaves will be granted in any one year of the currency of this Agreement and no more than four (4) employees may be absent on such leave at any one time. If the maximum of ten (10) leaves in any year of this Agreement has been granted, the Company will consider any further request for such leave in that year on an individual basis.
6.04	From time to time during the currency of this Agreement and upon the written request of the Union, the Company will grant a leave of absence without pay to any employee for the purpose of attending to Union business. Such leave of absence shall be for a period of not less than one (1) month and not more than six (6) employees from each plant shall be entitled to any such leave of absence at any one time. Where such leave is to be for a period of less than one (1) year, the Union shall specify the period to be covered. If the leave is expected to be required for a period in excess of one (1) year, it shall be treated as an indefinite leave of absence and the Company's approval of such leave shall be considered to continue throughout the life of this Agreement. T o the extent that it is practical to do so, the Company will endeavour to arrange for the continuance of both Company and Government welfare benefits while an employee is absent on such leave.
6.05	With respect to employees granted leave of absence under the provisions of clauses 6.03 and 6.04 above, it is agreed that on the written request of the Union:
(a)	Each employee shall receive from the Company in respect of each day of absence on such leave, an amount equivalent to:
(i)	the regular straight-time hourly rate then in effect for his/her employment classification, multiplied by eight (8) or ten (10) hours, whichever is appropriate
-- LESS --
THORNCLIFFE
5
6.06
(ii) all deductions normally withheld by law from an employee's pay and, if applicable, the employee's contributions to the Extended Group Insurance Plan, the Employees' Retirement Plan and the Employee Savings and Investment Plan.
(b)	The Union shall promptly reimburse the Company for the sum of:
(i) the gross amount of the payment calculated as set out in (a) (i) above,
-- PLUS -(ii) with the exception of leaves of absence granted under the provisions of clause 6.03 above, any amount which becomes payable by the Company as a result of the Company having made to any employee a payment under the provisions of (a) above (e.g. Company contributions to the Employees' Retirement Plan, the Employee Savings and Investment Plan, the Extended Group Insurance Plan, Employment Insurance, Government Pension Plan and Health Plan, etc.).
In the event of failure of the Union to so reimburse the Company, all payments to employees under (a) above shall immediately cease.
(c)	In consideration of the agreement of the Company to make payments as provided above, the Union agrees to indemnify the Company and save it harmless from and against any and all claims, payments, and costs of any kind which it may receive, make or suffer, directly or indirectly, through having agreed to make and having made such payments, deductions and contributions or by reason of any imputed employment relationship which might be alleged to exist between such employee and the Company by reason of the making of such payments.
(a)	Every Union Steward and every officer of the Union who is an employee shall be allowed such time off as may be necessary to enable him/her to attend those appointments with management personnel at which his/her presence is required under the grievance procedure in order to enable him/her to give evidence at such hearing.
(b)	Provided he/she is an employee, the Union Steward and the President, or his designate shall be allowed such time off with pay, as may be necessary to enable him/her to attend those appointments with management personnel at which his/her presence is required under the arbitration provisions of this collective agreement. In addition, the Company will pay the regular wages for employees called by the Union as arbitration witnesses, provided that such employees actually give evidence at the arbitration hearing on the day that they are off work at the Union’s request. The Union will act reasonably in all cases when making requests for employees to be released from work for purposes of their attendance at an arbitration hearing.
(c)	The Company will also be responsible for the wages for arbitration witnesses who would otherwise give testimony save for the Company making a preliminary objection, requesting an adjournment or seeking some other form of delay of which the Union was not previously notified. In the event that the Union is given advance notice of such Company position, the Union will only require those employees necessary for dealing with the preliminary issue to be absent from work.
THORNCLIFFE
6
6.07
6.08
6.09
6.10
(d)	The Company will pay the regular wages for the grievor to attend at arbitration in all circumstances, provided that the grievor is still an active employee of the Company on the date of the arbitration hearing(s).
(e)	Should a Union Steward or Union Officer be scheduled to be on duty during the time in which a regularly scheduled meeting of the general membership of the Union is to be held, such Steward shall (provided his/her request is made at least 24 hours in advance) be allowed such time off work as may be reasonably required in the circumstances to permit him/her to attend such meeting.
(f)	The allowing of time off under the provisions of this Article 6.06 shall be subject to the employee having obtained permission to leave his/her work from his/her Supervisor.
(g)	All such time off under the provisions of Article 6.06 during an employee's regular working hours shall be without loss of pay. However, the Company may discontinue paying for such time off, if, in its opinion, the privilege of requesting such time off under any provision of Article 6.06 is being abused.
(h)	When stewards are elected or otherwise appointed to such position, every effort shall be made by the Union to ensure adequate steward representation on all shifts and days of work.
The granting of any leave of absence under clauses 6.03 or 6.04 or 6.06 may be refused by the Company when the granting of the same would be unreasonable having regard to the requirements of operations.
At the request of the Union, the Company will grant time off, without loss of pay during the employee's regular working hours, to not more than three (3) employees and to any employee holding the office of President of Local Union 385 and the Chief Shop Steward to allow them to be members of the Union Negotiating Committee and to enable them to attend arranged meetings with Company representatives or with a Conciliation Officer for the purpose of negotiating a renewal of this Collective Agreement. The allowing of any such time off shall, however, be subject to the employee having obtained permission to leave his/her work from his/her Supervisor.
The Union Stewards herein referred to shall be employees of the Company and shall not be more than ten (10) in number. The Union will notify the Company in writing of the names of such Stewards and may also notify the Company of the names of not more than an equal number of additional employees who may serve as alternate Stewards in the absence from work of a regular Steward. The Company will not recognize any individual as a Steward until it has received such notification from the Union.
(a)	The Union President and Chief Steward shall each be entitled to one (1) day per week off with pay to attend to union activities. This shall include meetings with the Company. This Union business day will be observed on Tuesdays. Either the Company and Union may request a change to that day, such change will not be unreasonably denied.
(b)	The Company will provide a maximum of eleven (11) additional days per calendar month for the purpose of attending to other union business. Such time shall be delegated by the Union President.
THORNCLIFFE
7
(c)	Should the days in (c) above not be used within the calendar month, such days may be carried over for use in the subsequent calendar months. At the end of each year of this agreement, it is agreed that any outstanding or carried over days shall be nullified.
(d)	It is understood and agreed that any of the above arrangements are to be made between the Union President and the Distribution Centre Manager with a minimum of forty-eight (48) hours advance notice being provided to the Distribution Centre Manager or his/her designate.
ARTICLE 7 - GRIEVANCES
7.01	The parties acknowledge the desirability of ensuring prompt, fair and final resolution of employee grievances. The parties’ recognition of this principle has contributed stability and certainty to the grievance procedure. Accordingly the parties view any attempt to reinstate a grievance properly disposed of as contrary to the purpose for which the grievance procedure was established and violates the fundamental principles of collective bargaining.
However, in those instances where the National Union CAW, by either its Executive Board, Public Review Board or Constitutional Convention Appeals Committee, has reviewed the disposition of a grievance and found that such disposition was improperly effected by the Union or a Union representative, the National Union may inform the Coca-Cola Director of Labour Relations in writing, that such grievance is reinstated in the grievance procedure at the step at which the original disposition of the grievance occurred.
It is specifically understood however, that the Company shall not be responsible for any liabilities which may have accrued from the date of the initial withdrawal of the grievance by the Union, up to and including the date on which the grievance is reinstated.
In addition, in those instances where the Company, by either its Director of Labour Relations or a Coca-Cola Refreshments Executive member, has reviewed the disposition of a Company grievance and found that such disposition was improperly effected by the Company or a Company representative, the Company may inform the National Union CAW in writing, that such Company grievance is reinstated in the grievance procedure at the step at which the original disposition of the grievance occurred.
It is specifically understood however, that the Union shall not be responsible for any liabilities which may have accrued from the date of the initial withdrawal of the Company grievance, up to and including the date on which the grievance is reinstated.
7.02	(a) In this Agreement a "grievance" shall consist only of a difference concerning the
interpretation, application, administration or alleged violation of any provision of this Agreement, including any question as to whether a matter is arbitrable.
(b)	Should any complaint or misunderstanding arise which is not a "grievance" as defined above and if the matter is not resolved with reasonable promptness, it may be taken up through the procedure provided herein for the hearing of grievances; it being understood and agreed, however, that such a matter shall not, under any circumstances, be taken to arbitration.
(c)	If any question arises as to whether a particular difference is or is not a grievance within the meaning of this Agreement, that question may be taken up through the grievance procedure and determined, if necessary, by arbitration.
THORNCLIFFE
8
(d)	A grievance shall not be considered where the grievance originated more than ten (10) working days after the employee and the Union became aware of the circumstances or ought reasonably to have been aware of the circumstances. For the purpose of this Article, Public Holidays, Saturday and Sunday shall not be working days.
Any of the time limits in the grievance procedure may be waived or extended by mutual agreement between the Company and the Union.
(e)	There shall be an earnest effort on the part of the employees and both parties to this Agreement to deal with complaints and grievances promptly through the procedure provided below.
7.03	INDIVIDUAL GRIEVANCE
An employee who has a complaint or a grievance will ordinarily discuss the matter with his/her immediate supervisor and if the matter is not resolved in that discussion, he/she may refer the question to his/her Steward for consideration. However, should the nature of the complaint or grievance be such that the employee prefers to refer it to his/her Steward first, then he/she may do so.
A Steward shall be permitted reasonable time off work up to fifteen (15) minutes without loss of his regular pay for purposes of investigating and processing of grievances. Should additional time be required, such time off shall be granted within 24 hours, excluding Saturdays and Sundays, unless a Steward is available at work on Saturday or Sunday. The employee shall first seek permission from his/her supervisor and will notify his/her supervisor upon their return to work, such permission shall not be unreasonably withheld.
Step 1
If a complaint or grievance is referred by an employee to his/her Steward and if the Steward considers that there may be a reasonable basis for the complaint or grievance, the employee and the Steward may refer the matter orally or in writing to the appropriate management representative. Should the step 1 grievance meeting not be held within 5 working days of being filed, the grievance will be automatically forwarded to Step 2.
Step 2
If the complaint or grievance remains unsettled for five (5) working days after the time of its presentation at Step 1, it may, within a further five (5) working days be referred in writing at Step 2, in sufficient detail to define the issue, to the appropriate management representative (or his/her designate). Should the Step 2 grievance meeting not be held within five (5) working days of its referral to Step 2, the grievance will be automatically forwarded to Step 3.
Step 3
If the complaint or grievance remains unsettled for five (5) working days after its presentation at Step 2, it may, within five (5) working days after the hearing at Step 2 be referred in writing at Step 3 in sufficient detail to define the issue, to the appropriate management representative or his designate. Within five (5) working days of the submission of a complaint or grievance at Step 3 the management representative (and/or such other persons, including the grievor’s immediate supervisor, as he/she may designate) shall meet with the grievor or representative of the grievor, his/her Steward, and a full-time representative of the Union (and/or such other persons, up to two (2) in number, as he/she may designate) to discuss the matter. The Company’s decision will be given in writing, with sufficient explanations, to the Union President or his/her designate within five (5) working days after such meeting, who shall provide the response to the employee and Steward as
THORNCLIFFE
9
soon as is practical. The Local Union President, the Chief Shop Steward or their designates, must attend all Step 3 meetings.
7.04	COLLECTIVE GRIEVANCE
Should a group of two (2) or more employees who have a complaint or grievance based upon the same provision or provisions of this Agreement or upon similar facts desire to have such matter dealt with collectively rather than as individual complaints or grievances, they may, provided it is done with reasonable promptness, present such matter in writing to the appropriate management representative, setting out sufficient detail to define the issue. An opportunity for oral discussion between the officials of the Union (not exceeding four (4) in number) and representatives of management (not exceeding four (4) in number) will be given, and failing agreement, the Company shall deliver to the Union a reply in writing within ten working days after receipt of the written submission.
7.05	COMPANY/UNION GRIEVANCE
Should any grievance or complaint arise directly between the Company and the Union, it should be dealt with as follows: it may, provided it is done with reasonable promptness, be presented in writing by either of such parties to the other, setting out sufficient detail to define the issue. An opportunity for oral discussion between the officials of the union (not exceeding four (4) in number) and representatives of management (not exceeding four (4) in number) will be given, and failing agreement, the party to whom such matter was submitted shall deliver to the other party a reply in writing to such submission within ten (10) working days after the receipt of such submission.
7.06	SUSPENSION OR DISCHARGE
(a)	When an employee is to be suspended or discharged, such employee will be advised that he/she may, if he/she so wishes, have his/her Steward present for such meeting and the reasons for such suspension or discharge will be given. The Company shall afford the employee time to speak with the Steward prior to any meeting, provided such is requested by either the employee or the Steward. In any event, an employee who is suspended or discharged will be given an opportunity to discuss the matter with his/her Steward before leaving the Company's premises.
Such suspension or discharge shall be confirmed to the employee by the Company in writing and a copy of such letter will be mailed to the Union's office.
(b)	Any grievance relating to the suspension or discharge of any employee shall be submitted directly at Step 3 of the Individual Grievance Procedure within ten (10) working days of such suspension or discharge and not otherwise. In the event that it should be decided that the suspension or discharge of any employee is without just cause, the Company shall reinstate such employee and pay full compensation at the employee's regular hourly rate for time lost (to a maximum of forty (40) hours per week, plus any applicable shift premium) after written complaint against such suspension or discharge has been received by the Company. Upon such reinstatement, there shall be deemed to have been no break in such employee's service with the Company.
(c)	After a period of eighteen (18) months free of any warning or suspension, or a period of two (2) years in any event, previous warnings or disciplinary actions will not be used in progressive steps or in arbitrations.
7.07	APPROPRIATE MANAGEMENT REPRESENTATIVE
The "appropriate management representative" as referred to in the grievance procedures shall be as follows:
THORNCLIFFE
10
Step 1 - Supervisor (or designate)
Step 2 - Department Manager (or designate)
Step 3 - Distribution Centre Manager (or designate)
7.08	GENERAL
Should any employee, employees, the Union or the Company take advantage of the procedure provided herein for the hearing of complaints and grievances, each step in such procedure (up to and including, in the case of a grievance only, the request for appointment of an arbitrator) required to effect a final disposition of the matter shall be taken by such employee, employees, the Union or the Company, as the case may be, within the time limits set forth in this Agreement or the matter shall be deemed to have been abandoned. In determining such time limits, no account shall be taken of the day on which the complaint or grievance was presented and any time limit fixed by this Agreement may be extended by written agreement of the Company and the Union. Saturdays, Sundays, observed holidays and scheduled days off shall not count as "working days" as referred to in this Article 7.
7.09	ARBITRATION
Should any grievance (as defined in clause 7.02 (a) hereof) arise which is not satisfactorily determined under the foregoing provisions, and should either the Union or the Company desire to carry the matter further, the matter shall then, by notice in writing given to the other party within fifteen (15) working days from the giving of the latest decision referred to above, be referred either by the Company or the Union to arbitration as provided for in Appendix "A" hereto. It is understood and agreed that complaints and misunderstandings as referred to in clause 7.02 (b) hereof, shall not be arbitrable.
7.10	MEDIATION
The Company and the Union agree that there is a mutual benefit to the mediation process that has been developed and endorsed over the past several years. As a result, in addition to the regular arbitration procedure provided for herein, the parties may, by mutual agreement, refer a grievance(s) to a mediation process. This process does not prejudice either party’s right to pursue such grievance (s) at arbitration. The mediator will be selected by mutual agreement and the parties will equally share the cost of the mediator. Mediation shall be held three times per year, and will be scheduled between September 1st and May 31st of each contract year on mutually agreed upon dates. In an effort to better appreciate the benefits of mediation, the parties agree to fully disclose all relevant facts of the grievance at the third step meeting.
ARTICLE 8 - SENIORITY
8.01	(a) Seniority of an employee shall mean the length of his/her unbroken service with the
Company in the Bargaining Unit covered by this Agreement, except as provided in clause 8.01(b) below.
(b)	It is agreed that clause 8.01(a) above shall not be applied to alter any seniority date which has been established prior to the effective date of this Agreement.
(c)	An employee who is transferred from the Bargaining Unit to a job with the Company outside the Bargaining Unit may only return to the Unit to fill a vacancy which would otherwise be filled by a new hire. In such a case, the employee's seniority date would be the date on which he/she re-entered the Bargaining Unit.
(d)	The Company shall recognize the seniority of any CAW Local 385/Thorncliffe employee who is transferred to the Brampton plant or any other associated plant
THORNCLIFFE
11
with their work, in accordance with Article 8.01(d) of the Brampton collective agreement. Therefore, CAW Local 385, in a reciprocal agreement, agrees to recognize the seniority of any Brampton employee who transfers with their work to any facility which is represented by CAW Local 385.
8.02	For the purposes of layoff and recall, employees will be laid off and recalled as outlined in this article, Article 8, Section 8.09 and will be deemed to be on one seniority list.
8.03	A seniority list shall be maintained by the Company showing the name and seniority date of each employee who has acquired seniority under this Agreement. If two or more employees are hired on the same day, the Union will determine their seniority ranking. This list will be brought up to date every three (3) months. A copy of the updated list will be provided to the Union office.
8.04	An employee's service with the Company shall be broken if that employee:
(a)	quits;
(b)	is laid off for a period of twenty-four (24) months or more;
(c)	is discharged and is not reinstated;
(d)	fails to return to work on the expiration of any period of leave granted by the Company unless excused by the Company;
(e)	is absent from work for more than three (3) consecutive working days without having notified the Company and received permission to be absent, which permission shall not be unreasonably withheld; or
(f)	otherwise ceases to be employed by the Company.
8.05	In making transfers, promotions, demotions, layoffs, and recalls from layoffs seniority shall govern, provided the employee can satisfactorily fulfil the normal requirements of the job.
8.06	JOB POSTING
(a)	When a regular full-time job becomes vacant, the Company shall post a notice of such job vacancy on the bulletin board for a period of seven (7) calendar days. All job postings must include department, function, shift and start time. During that period, any employee may make written application for and receive written confirmation of the vacant job and all such applications will receive consideration in accordance with the provisions of clause 8.05 hereof. With the exception of service technicians who fail the aptitude test referred to in the Letter of Understanding entitled "Sales Equipment Service Technicians and Trainees” and mechanics/technicians, the Company will train the successful applicant. It is expressly understood that employees (excluding employees who have not yet completed a second day on the trucks as a helper) who receive training pursuant to this Article shall not then be entitled to refuse the position.
(b)	The Company will select the successful applicant within five (5) working days of the close of the posting period and will, within a further three (3) days, advise the employees of its decision by posting that information on the bulletin board. Where a senior employee is denied a posting, the reason for the denial shall be provided to those affected in writing.
(c)	If an employee was absent on vacation or an approved absence (not in excess of twelve (12) months) at the time of posting of a job for which he/she is qualified, he/she will at his/her request, be provided with a copy of all job postings within five (5) working days of his/her return to work. Within a further three (3) working days, he/she must decide whether to apply for consideration for any of these positions,
THORNCLIFFE
12
and if accepted by the Company, he/she shall then displace any employee previously selected to fill such vacancy.
(d)	In the event that the Company has no employee who can satisfactorily fulfil the normal requirements of a job vacancy, and if there is, at the time, no qualified employee on layoff who wishes to exercise the right of temporary transfer provided for in clause 8.09(e) hereof, the Company may hire a new employee to fill such vacancy. The Company may fill any vacancy, temporarily, pending completion of procedures set out herein.
(e)	When an employee has received a change of job or shift assignment under the provisions of this clause 8.06:
(i)	he/she shall not be entitled to apply for a posted vacancy during the following six months, unless such job vacancy is in a wage bracket higher than his/her own or would enable a change of shift; and
(ii)	if the change of job involved a transfer to the position of Service Equipment Serviceperson trainee, the employee will not be entitled to again apply for a job during the twelve (12) months following completion of the training period and certification as a Service Equipment Serviceperson.
(f)	Job postings for the position of General Help or Production Person will identify the shift, department and principal "function" within the Job Classification. For this purpose only, the following "functions" will be recognized:
W.B.No.1 - Job Classification: General Help Functions:
•	Principally	Sweeping/Cleaning
•	General Duties
•	Principally	Fork Lift Operator
•	Principally	Load Consolidation/Sorting
Employees may bid to the principal function of Fork Lift Operator if they are in W.B. No. 1 even if they have not been in that wage bracket for a period of six (6) months.
It is expressly agreed that the function descriptions set out above are intended solely to identify the general or predominant nature of the tasks assigned to any employee and shall not in any way limit the Company's ability to assign other duties or tasks within the Job Classification.
(g)	While the intent of clause 8.06 (f) is to provide employees with a means of expressing personal preference in the assignment of their regular duties, it is understood and agreed that it shall remain the sole responsibility of the Company to determine the number of experienced personnel required on any job or shift.
(h)	Notwithstanding anything herein contained, it is mutually understood and agreed that inability to meet satisfactory standards of performance may be grounds for a non-disciplinary change of assignment within the Job Classification of Production Person or Delivery Salesperson In Charge.
8.07	It is understood and agreed that the provisions of clause 8.06 shall apply only in the case of "permanent" vacancies. However, when there is a temporary vacancy in a Department at a location (including vacancies created by the addition of temporary shifts), and the Company
THORNCLIFFE
13
expects such work to be available for a period in excess of five (5) working days, the Company shall, insofar as the requirements and efficiency of operations will permit, make such temporary assignment available to qualified employees in the Department and then on a plant-wide seniority basis. For this purpose, seniority shall be recognized within departments. On completion of such a temporary assignment, the affected employee will revert to his/her regular job and/or shift, provided such work is available for him/her, or otherwise he/she shall be re-assigned having regard to his/her seniority and the provisions of this Agreement.
While the intent of this clause is to provide employees with a means of expressing personal preference for temporary assignments of reasonable duration, it is understood and agreed that it shall remain the sole responsibility of the Company to determine the number of experienced personnel required on any job or shift.
In the event that a position which has been filled on a temporary basis should continue to be required for a period in excess of six (6) months, such position will thereupon be considered as a "permanent" position and shall then be posted as provided for in clause 8.06 hereof.
When in the judgement of the Company it is practical, appropriate and timely to do so, the Company will endeavour to make available to employees who are likely to be candidates for a temporary promotion (and who would otherwise be qualified for such temporary promotion) or who are likely to be subject to layoff, the opportunity of receiving such training as may be necessary to enable them to satisfactorily perform the work so made available to them. An employee who has received such training shall not then be entitled to refuse an assignment to the position for which he/she has been trained.
8.08	DEMOTIONS
If, as the direct result of a reduction in the work force, one or more demotions should become necessary, it is agreed that the provisions of clause 8.05 hereof shall be observed. It is understood, however, that this clause 8.08 shall not apply in the case of an employee who is demoted as a result of his/her misconduct or his/her inability to satisfactorily perform the work required; it being further understood, however, that if within three (3) months of receiving a promotion an employee requests to be relieved of his/her new responsibilities or is demoted due to his/her inability to satisfactorily perform such new duties, he/she shall be permitted to revert to his/her former position and, in so doing, may displace the employee who succeeded him/her in that position.
8.09	LAYOFFS
Whenever layoffs in a seniority group are necessary, they shall be accomplished as follows:
(a)	Senior employees will be allowed to exercise their seniority rights to elect layoff, provided they have indicated preference to the Company in advance in writing.
(b)	The Company shall first lay off temporary employees and probationary employees, if any, in the department affected. If further reduction of staff is required, the Company shall then lay off regular employees in accordance with the provisions of clause 8.05 hereof, it being understood that, in this instance, seniority is reversed (i.e. the most junior person will be the first laid off). If any employee is to be laid off for a period of more than five (5) working days, he/she shall receive five (5) working days written notice of such layoff. In the event that such layoff does not actually take effect within 2 months of the giving of the notice, that notice will be deemed to have been cancelled. The Union will be provided with a copy of all notices of layoff.
THORNCLIFFE
14
It is mutually agreed that for the purposes of administration of the foregoing paragraph, the term "in accordance with the provisions of clause 8.05" shall mean that the following procedure will be observed:
(i)	any regular employee for whom work is not available may displace the least senior employee within the same shift (days, afternoons or midnights, regardless of 4x10 or 5x8) and department, providing he/she has greater seniority;
(ii)	the employee displaced in (i) above may then displace the least senior employee within the same shift (days, afternoons or midnights, regardless of 4x10 or 5x8), providing he/she has greater seniority;
(iii)	employees who cannot displace a junior employee on their own shift but currently hold a posting, shall displace the most junior employee who currently holds the same job posting on another shift.
(iv)	the employee displaced in (iii) above may then displace the least senior employee.
For this purpose, the expression "department", as used above, shall be defined by reference to the departments referred to in clause 12.09 (f) hereof.
A regular employee may displace a less senior employee in accordance with points
(i), (ii), (iii) and (iv) above only if such employee can satisfactorily fulfil the normal requirements of the job occupied by the less senior employee.
(c)	The Company shall return laid off employees to their original job postings whenever the returning of the laid off employees does not adversely affect the operation of the business. The Company will comply with the Letter of Intent dated July 30, 2004, entitled “Recall from Layoff”.
(d)	An employee exercising this option under Article 8.09 shall not acquire seniority in the department to which he/she is transferred, but shall retain his/her recall rights in his/her original department.
(e)	The Company shall maintain a list of employees (other than probationary or temporary employees) laid off by it within the prior twenty-four (24) months and such list shall show the seniority of such employees. A copy of the daily layoff list will be provided to the local plant President or Chairperson of the Union. When employees are required for a vacancy of more than five (5) working days in a department, the layoff list will be examined and, to the extent of the number of jobs available, the most senior employees listed therein will be recalled from transfer or layoff in accordance with the provisions of clause 8.05 hereof to the vacancy. The Company will provide the Union with an electronic version of the daily layoff list.
(f)	If, at the time of recall from a layoff an employee is not in the active service of the Company, a notice shall be sent to him/her by registered mail addressed to the last address which he/she shall have recorded with the Company. Such notice shall indicate the job for which the individual is considered qualified, the proposed time and place of hiring (which shall not be less than seven (7) working days from the date of mailing of such notice by the Company) and shall state that if the individual desires to be rehired for such job, he/she shall notify the Company in writing within five (5) working days of the mailing of such notice by the Company. A copy of each
THORNCLIFFE
15
such notice shall be mailed to the Union. The individuals to whom such notices are sent and who report ready for work at the time and place of hiring as set out in such notices, shall, if they are then so qualified to fill the jobs available, be rehired. The Company shall not be required, however, to rehire at any time any individual who shall have failed to notify the Company of his/her desire to be rehired or who shall have failed to report for rehiring in accordance with and at the time stated in any such notice sent to him/her. The Company shall be entitled to fill any jobs available on a temporary basis pending rehiring of those having preferential rights for rehiring as hereinbefore set out. On such rehiring there shall be deemed to have been no break in such employee's continuous service.
(g)	Notwithstanding anything herein contained, it is agreed that if a D.S.I.C., Transport Driver or Equipment Service Delivery Driver has not presented himself/herself for assignment of the day's work prior to his/her start time, he/she shall be considered to be unavailable for work at that start time and in such circumstances the layoff provisions set out above shall have no application. However, if work is available at a later start time which he/she is capable of performing satisfactorily and which would not result in the displacement of any other employee, then such work opportunity shall be assigned to him/her.
(h)	It is mutually agreed that an employee who would otherwise be on layoff may request that part or all of such layoff period be regarded as annual vacation time and be paid accordingly. The Company will honour such requests, provided that the employee has sufficient unused vacation entitlement to accommodate the request.
8.10	If, during the life of this Collective Agreement, the Company plans to introduce any new form of formal aptitude or skills testing (as distinct from evaluation of performance on the job) it will first review the new test format with the Union and receive the benefit of any input to such plan that the Union may have to offer.
8.11	Employees whose job is permanently discontinued will be allowed to exercise their seniority to displace a more junior employee, pursuant to Article 8 of the collective agreement. They will then lose recall rights to the discontinued job after having been laid off from it for a period of twelve (12) months. If the Company intends to permanently discontinue a job or a posting, the Company shall first inform the Union. The employees will be given one (1) weeks notice concerning the permanent elimination of a job(s), and all jobs will be provided at that time for all employees to see, at which time the employee must make their decision.
8.12	In the application of Article 8, where an employee is allowed to exercise their seniority to displace or “bump” another employee, upon presentation of all options to that employee, he/she must decide to what eligible position they will be displacing within two (2) business days. If the employee does not make the decision in the required time period, the Company will determine to what position that employee will be placed.
ARTICLE 9 - HOURS OF WORK & OVERTIME
9.01	(a) For the purposes of this Agreement, the work week shall commence at midnight
Saturday-Sunday and all work performed in a shift or other similar work period (including any extension thereof) shall be deemed to have been performed in the same day in which that shift or other similar work period commenced.
THORNCLIFFE
16
9.02
9.03
9.04
9.05
9.06
(b)	The Company will endeavour to provide as much notice as possible of any change in start times for employees. It is recognized that there could be any number of reasons which would necessitate changing start times. Any changes in start time would be for valid business reasons and would not be done in an indiscriminate fashion.
For the purposes of this Agreement, time worked shall be calculated in units of six (6) minutes and periods of work of less than six (6) minutes per day shall be disregarded.
For the purposes of this Agreement, the normal work periods of all employees shall consist of five (5) eight (8) hour days or four (4) ten (10) hour days. Employees working four (4) ten (10) hour shifts will not be scheduled for Sunday work, except in cases of overtime. The Company does not guarantee, however, to provide work for any employee nor to maintain the work week or working hours presently in force.
The Company may schedule twelve (12)-hour shifts if there are sufficient regular full-time employee volunteers from the classification concerned. Employees will be advised of the shift schedule before volunteers are sought. In staffing such shifts, the employees will be permitted to select a particular shift within their classification (or sub-group if Delivery Driver) by seniority. The parties agree that hours of work on twelve (12) hour shift shall be three (3) consecutive 12 hour shifts and be deemed as forty (40) hours worked. Vacation and sick pay credits and lieu time shall be calculated in twelve (12) hour shifts shall receive a thirty (30) minutes unpaid lunch and three (3) fifteen (15) minutes breaks.
Every employee shall be paid overtime at the rate of one and one-half times his hourly rate for all work performed by him and required by the Company in excess of his regular eight (8) hour or ten (10) hour shift, as the case may be.
Every employee shall be paid at the rate of one and one-half (1-1/2) times his/her hourly rate for all work performed by him/her and required by the Company on a sixth shift in any week for those employees who are scheduled to work a five day week, and on a fifth shift in any week for those employees who are scheduled to work a four day week. Every employee shall be paid at the rate of two (2) times his/her hourly rate for all work performed by him/her and required by the Company on a seventh shift in any week for those employees who are scheduled to work a five day week, and on a sixth or seventh shift in any week for those employees who are scheduled to work a four day week. Notwithstanding the above, all work performed on Sunday, which is not a regularly scheduled shift, shall be paid at two (2) times his/her hourly rate.
Every regular full time employee who is regularly required to work on a Saturday and/or Sunday where such days are part of his regular work week shall be paid a premium as shown below:
for work performed by him/her and required by the Company, unless he/she is entitled under the other provisions of this Article to be paid at the rate of one and one-half (1-1/2) or two (2) times his/her hourly rate, as the case may be, for work so performed by him/her and required by the Company. For the purposes of this Agreement, such premiums shall not be considered as forming part of an employee's hourly rate. Temporary employees who are employed at the date of ratification will have their premiums "red-circled”. Any temporary employee hired or re-hired after the date of ratification will not receive any of the above noted premiums.
Saturday
Sunday
$ 2.00 $ 2.25
THORNCLIFFE
17
9.07	Every employee shall be paid at the rate of two (2) times his/her hourly rate for all work performed by him/her and required by the Company on a day which is observed as a paid holiday under the provisions of Article 11 hereof.
9.08	Where it is anticipated that any employee will perform additional work required by the Company for a period of one-half (1/2) hour or more immediately following his/her normal work period of eight (8) hours, as the case may be, he/she shall be granted a rest period of fifteen (15) minutes, with pay, before commencing such additional work.
9.09	Where any period of additional work referred to in clause 9.08 hereof will continue for more than two (2) consecutive hours, the employee shall, after having worked for two (2) hours, be given a break of one-half (1/2) hour, without pay, to enable him/her to have a meal. If he/she shall not have had at least twenty-four (24) hours' notice that such additional work would be required, the Company shall provide the meal, up to a value of $7.50 plus tax, without charge to the employee. If such additional work continues for more than two (2) consecutive hours following resumption of work after the meal break, the employee shall be granted an additional rest period of fifteen (15) minutes, with pay.
9.10	Every employee will be allowed one (1) paid rest period of fifteen (15) minutes during each one-half (1/2) shift. Rest periods will be arranged as near the mid-point of each one-half (1/2) shift as possible. Lunch breaks will be arranged as near the mid-point of each shift as possible.
If the Company implements a straight eight (8) hours shift in the Warehouse or Cooler Shop, all Warehouse and appropriate Cooler Shop employees shall be allowed one paid rest period of thirty (30) minutes during the first one-half (1/2) shift and one paid rest period of fifteen (15) minutes in the second one-half (1/2) shift. Such employees will not be entitled to a one-half (1/2) hour unpaid lunch.
A thirty (30) minute unpaid lunch break is provided to Delivery Drivers and Equipment Service Technicians (outside) to be used between the 4th and 6th hours of work but subject to meeting business and customer needs and legal requirements.
9.11	(a) The Company will endeavour, in so far as the requirements and efficiency of
operations will permit, to assign planned overtime work (i.e. overtime scheduled at
least 24 hours in advance) on the following basis:
(i)	Such opportunity will first be made available on a seniority basis to those regular employees who normally perform the work on which such overtime is required in that location, and
(ii)	In the event that the Company's needs cannot be entirely satisfied in that manner, the overtime opportunity will then be made available on a seniority basis to other hourly rated employees in the same location who are capable of satisfactorily performing the work required.
(iii)	Opportunities for planned overtime will be posted in all departments. No temporary or probationary worker shall be offered planned overtime prior to any regular employee.
(iv)	The Company agrees that on those occasions when the Company uses an "employees available for overtime” list as provided in the Collective Agreement, that only those employees who have signed the list as indicated
THORNCLIFFE
18
would be considered for the appropriate scheduled overtime opportunities. Should other employees, who are possibly more senior to those who have already signed the indicated list, make themselves available for overtime opportunities subsequent to the list being removed from its posted position, they will not be considered as available until after those employees who have signed the list have been accommodated. The Company will post a list, by seniority, of those who have signed for overtime, by 2:00 p.m. on Friday. Should any Saturday overtime be confirmed at the time such list is posted, it will be indicated on the list.
(b)	In the case of unscheduled overtime, other than overtime to be performed as a continuation of work in process, the Company will endeavor, in so far as the requirements and efficiency of operations will permit, to assign overtime on the following basis:
(i)	Such opportunity will first be made available on a seniority basis to employees in the appropriate department who are available on the Company's premises at the time such overtime is to commence and who are capable of satisfactorily performing the work required.
(ii)	In the event that the Company's needs cannot be entirely satisfied in that manner, the overtime opportunity will then be made available to the senior employees who are available on the Company's premises at the time such overtime is to commence and who are capable of satisfactorily performing the work required.
(iii)	In the event that the Company’s needs still cannot be entirely satisfied in that manner, the overtime opportunity will then be made available to temporary or probationary employees, in accordance with Article 2.03, who are available on the Company's premises at the time such overtime is to commence and who are capable of satisfactorily performing the work required.
(c)	It is understood that to facilitate the distribution of overtime work, employees may be required to indicate their desire for such assignments by signing an "employees available for overtime" list and that repeated refusal of overtime work after having indicated availability for such assignments may result in that employee being excluded from further consideration under these provisions. Where an employee has agreed to work scheduled overtime, as much notice as possible regarding the confirmation or cancellation of such overtime will be given to the employee. If such reasonable notice has not been provided and an employee cancels his willingness to work such overtime, then the cancellation shall not be held against the employee for further considerations under this provision. It is further understood that in the event that all overtime requirements cannot be filled on a voluntary basis, such work may then be assigned (subject to applicable law) on a reverse-seniority basis to those employees in the appropriate department who are capable of satisfactorily performing the work required. For the purpose of this clause, seniority shall be recognized within departments. Other than for situations arising because of Acts of God or in cases of emergency, the Company will not offer opportunities for overtime work if doing so would result in an employee working a double shift without a complete shift off duty.
(d)	An employee shall be eligible for overtime work during the week and the weekend/long weekend prior to the commencement of his vacation, and shall not be
THORNCLIFFE
19
entitled to overtime work until he/she has returned to work following the period of his/her vacation.
9.12	Where an employee has left the Company's Plant on completion of his/her day's work and is then called by the Company and requested to return to work at a time before the commencement of his/her next schedule day's work, such request shall constitute a "callout". An employee reporting for work on a "call-out" shall be entitled to be paid for work performed by him/her outside his/her scheduled working hours at the rate of one and one-half (1-1/2) times his/her hourly rate or four (4) hours' work at his/her hourly rate, whichever is greater.
9.13	An employee who reports for work at his/her scheduled time, not having been previously notified to the contrary, shall be entitled to a minimum of four (4) hours pay at the rate of pay to which he/she would have been entitled for the work he/she had been scheduled to perform on that day, but it is agreed that he/she shall perform any suitable work for this four (4) hour period, if so required. If an employee is absent from work on a Friday, it will be presumed that he/she will be available for work on the following Monday, unless he/she advises the Company to the contrary. Therefore, should such an employee be unable to report by Monday, he/she must notify the Company to that effect prior to his/her scheduled starting time.
9.14	The system of "fixed" shifts (as contrasted with "rotating" or "alternating" shifts) which is currently in effect will not be discontinued during the life of this Agreement without prior consultation with the Union; provided, however, that discussions with a view to possible modification of the system to accommodate any specific problems which arise may be initiated by either party. Should such discussions fail to produce agreement between the parties, then the Company may initiate changes only to the extent that they are necessary to satisfy the needs of the business and the requirements and efficiency of operations.
It is understood and agreed that this undertaking with respect to the method of staffing shifts (i.e. "fixed" vs. "rotating") does not in any way limit the Company's right to establish or discontinue shifts per se, or to modify the starting or stopping time of shifts, in order to satisfy the needs of the business and the requirements and efficiency of operations.
9.15	LOST SHIFT MAKE-UP
In the event that a regular employee has been laid off for at least one (1) day during his/her scheduled work week, he/she shall have the option of displacing in the following order:
(i)	A temporary employee;
(ii)	An employee on overtime;
(iii)	The least senior employee who is scheduled to work in his/her department or other department on one of his/her scheduled off days in that work week; provided he/she is capable of satisfactorily performing the work required and provided that such shift is not scheduled to begin or end within eleven (11) hours of the employees regular shift. Such work will be performed at regular straight time hourly rates plus any off peak premium if applicable. Employees who wish to do so must sign a list at the time of their layoff, which will be posted weekly in each location.
ARTICLE 10 - NIGHT SHIFT PREMIUM
10.01	Every regular full time employee shall be paid a night shift premium of $1.00 for work performed by him/her and required by the Company for "night hours" worked provided, however, that such premiums shall not be paid for any time worked in respect of which
THORNCLIFFE
20
overtime premium is payable. For purposes of this Agreement, such night shift premium shall not be considered as forming part of an employee's hourly rate.
For employees whose classifications are within wage brackets one (1) to eight (8), inclusive "night hours" shall be defined as all hours worked after four (4:00) p.m. in a day and before seven-thirty (7:30) a.m. in the following day. For all other employees who are within the delivery and sales areas in wage brackets one (1) to three (3), inclusive, in those areas, "night hours" shall be defined as all hours worked after four-thirty (4:30) p.m. in a day and before seven (7:00) a.m. in the following day.
For employees who work at 42 Overlea Blvd., "night hours" shall be defined as all hours worked after five (5:00) p.m. and before eight (8:00) a.m. in the following day. Temporary employees who are employed at the date of ratification will have their premiums “red-circled”. Any temporary employee hired or re-hired after the date of ratification will not receive any of the above noted premiums.
ARTICLE 11 - HOLIDAY PAY
11.01 (a)
The expression the following:
"holiday" wherever used in this Agreement, shall mean any one of
DAY OF NEW YEAR'S EVE NEW YEAR'S DAY DAY AFTER NEW YEAR'S DAY FAMILY DAY GOOD FRIDAY VICTORIA DAY CANADA DAY CIVIC HOLIDAY LABOUR DAY THANKSGIVING DAY DAY BEFORE CHRISTMAS CHRISTMAS DAY BOXING DAY 1 FLOATER
The “floater” referred to above shall be taken at a time mutually agreed to between the Company and the employee and must be taken within the calendar year.
(b)	If, during the life of this Agreement, a holiday should be declared by government which is not listed above and which is to be generally observed in the Province of Ontario, such holiday shall be observed and paid by the Company under the same terms and conditions as apply to the holidays which are listed above.
11.02	Should any of the holidays mentioned above fall on a Saturday or on a Sunday, the regular working day which is closest thereto will normally be designated as the holiday. If, however, any question should arise as to the day in the year to be designated as any one of the holidays mentioned above, the Company shall decide the question for purposes of this Agreement. If an employee should be scheduled to have one of his/her regular days off on a day designated as a day to be observed as a holiday, that employee shall be allowed another day off with pay in lieu of the holiday with pay and, for purposes of this Agreement, such lieu day will be considered as his/her "holiday."
Lieu days shall be taken not later than twelve (12) months following the date on which such lieu days were banked, as arranged between the employee and his/her supervisor.
THORNCLIFFE
21
Where it is expected that a regular full time employee will be laid off on a day following a holiday listed in Article 11.01 and another employee or employees will accrue a lieu day as a result of the holiday, the employee who will accrue the lieu day will take the lieu day on the day following the holiday. To the extent that it is possible, the most junior employees who have accrued the above mentioned lieu days will take the lieu days in sufficient numbers to match the number of employees laid off.
11.03	Each employee who has completed his/her probationary period shall receive holiday pay for each such holiday, provided that he/she is at work on his/her last regular workday before the holiday and his/her first regular workday after the holiday, unless absence on one of the qualifying days was due to illness and substantiated by a doctor’s certificate. An employee's holiday pay for each such holiday, shall be an amount equal to his/her regular hourly rate, multiplied by
•	eight (8) hours if scheduled for a 5 x 8 hour work week
•	ten (10) hours if scheduled for a 4 x 10 hour work week
If, in the week in which the holiday falls, an employee works in two (2) different wage classifications, he/she will be paid for the holiday at the wage rate in effect for the job classification in which he/she normally works.
11.04	An employee who was absent on his/her last regular workday before and/or his/her first regular workday after the holiday will qualify for holiday pay (as set out in clause 11.03 above) if such absence:
(a)	is paid for under the provisions of clause 15.01 hereof (Bereavement Pay), or
(b)	is paid for under the provisions of clause 16.01 hereof (pay for Jury or Witness Duty), or
(c)	has been approved by the Company, or
(d)	is due to a layoff which commenced not more than five (5) working days prior to the holiday or on the first work day after the holiday,
provided, however, that such holiday pay shall not be payable if the employee is eligible for full or partial payment for the day on which the holiday is observed under any other clause of this Agreement or from any plan or fund to which the Company contributes (e.g. the Company's Extended Group Insurance Plan, WSIB, Employment Insurance, Government Pension Plan, etc.).
11.05	The Company will grant employees unpaid leave upon request in recognition of religious holiday observed by employees, or they may elect to use a day of their vacation entitlement.
ARTICLE 12 - VACATION
12.01	Every employee who, during the life of this Agreement, completes a year of continuous employment with the Company, will qualify for a vacation with pay, unless he/she has already been granted and has taken a vacation with pay in respect of that year of employment.
12.02	The length of vacation to which each employee will be entitled will be governed by the total length of his/her continuous service with the Company, and will be determined from the schedule in clause 12.04 below.
THORNCLIFFE
22
12.03	The amount of pay to which each employee will be entitled in respect of his/her vacation will be determined in accordance with clause 12.04 below. The earnings on which the calculation will be based shall be total earnings from the Company for the year of service in respect of which the vacation is granted including any premium pay (overtime, night shift, etc.) and pay for time not worked (vacation, observed holidays, sick pay, etc.).
12.04	Schedule of Vacation with Pay Entitlement During the Life of this Agreement:
Length of Service 1 but less than 5 yrs.
5 but less than 10 yrs. 10 but less than 20 yrs. 20 but less than 30 yrs. After 30 years' service
Length of Vacation
2	weeks
3	weeks
4	weeks
5	weeks
6	weeks
% of Earnings Payable 4%
6%
8%
10%
12%
12.05	If an employee's vacation pay calculated on the basis of his/her regular hourly rate, multiplied by forty (40) hours for each week of vacation to be taken would be greater than the amount to which he/she would be entitled under clause 12.04 above, then he/she will be paid the greater amount; provided, however, that if the employee has worked in more than one Wage Bracket during the preceding year, the calculation shall be made using the then current rate for the lowest such Wage Bracket; and provided further that if, during the year of service in respect of which the vacation is granted, the employee has been absent from work (in the aggregate) for more than twenty-five (25) working days due to layoff, or for more than ninety (90) working days for any other reason other than an absence on WSIB), then vacation pay shall be calculated only on the percentage basis set out in clause 12.04 above. If, during any year of service, an employee has been absent for more than ninety (90) working days, (other than absence on WSIB) he/she may, if he/she so wishes (but only to the extent permitted by law) waive one or more weeks of his/her vacation entitlement for that year without reduction in the percentage basis (only) vacation pay for which he/she qualifies.
12.06	For the purposes of this Article 12, a week shall mean a period of seven (7) consecutive days, including Saturdays, Sundays, and holidays falling within the period of vacation.
12.07	(a) Should one or more holidays named in clause 11.01 hereof fall within the period of an employee's vacation he/she may, not later than 15 days before such vacation is to commence, request an additional day off, with pay, in lieu of each such holiday. Such lieu days will be granted during the months of January, February, March, April, October, or November only, but, subject thereto, the Company will endeavour to arrange for the day(s) off at a time suitable to the employee. If an employee does not so elect time off in lieu of the holiday, then his/her pay for the week of vacation containing such holiday shall be increased by 20% for employees regularly scheduled to work 5x8 shifts and by 25% for employees regularly scheduled to work 4x10 shifts.
(b)	Provided that arrangements are approved by management, an employee whose regular schedule consists of five (5) days at eight (8) hours per day, may take up to five (5) days of his/her annual vacation entitlement in increments of eight (8) hours each. Likewise, an employee whose regular schedule consists of four (4) days at ten (10) hours per day, may take up to four (4) days of his/her annual vacation entitlement in increments of ten (10) hours each. Such arrangements will only be permitted during the months of January, February, March, April, October or November.
THORNCLIFFE
23
(c)	It is agreed that this clause 12.07 shall not be construed as preventing the Company
from granting lieu days in excess of the minimum periods set out above, if it believes the particular circumstances are such that this may be done without adversely affecting the requirements and efficiency of operations.
12.08	Every employee will be paid, immediately prior to his/her going on vacation, the vacation pay to which he/she is entitled. If an employee should be granted his/her vacation prior to his/her anniversary date, then
(i)	if he/she has completed five (5) or more years of service, his/her vacation pay will be based on his/her regular straight-time rate of earnings, or
(ii)	if he/she has not yet completed five (5) years of service, his/her pay for that vacation will be based on earnings from his/her last anniversary date until a date which is four (4) weeks prior to the date on which his/her vacation is to commence.
(iii)	if an employee wishes to take only one week of vacation and has completed at least six (6) months of service towards that year's vacation entitlement, he/she will receive one week's pay at his/her regular straight time rate of earnings. He/she will not then receive his/her second week of paid vacation until he/she completes the balance of that year of service.
On completion of that year of service, he/she will receive a vacation pay adjustment based on earnings for the portion of the year which was not included in the original vacation pay calculation.
12.09	(a) Employees who are entitled to either two (2) or three (3) weeks of vacation may take
up to two (2) weeks’ vacation during the period between the third Monday in May and the third Friday in September.
(b)	Employees who are entitled to four (4) or more weeks of vacation may take up to three (3) weeks vacation during the period between the third Monday in May and the third Friday in September.
(c)	The tentative list of summer vacations will be posted not later than March 16th of each year. Employees must submit their vacation requests by March 1st.
(d)	The vacation schedule will be finalized and a list of vacations posted on the bulletin board not later than April 15th of each year. Subject to the provisions of clause 12.09 (g) hereof, the schedule will not thereafter be changed without the mutual consent of the Company and the employees who would be affected.
(e)	Subject to the limitations of clauses 12.09 (a) and (b) and to the terms of clause (f) hereof, preference in regard to the available vacation date will be given in order of seniority.
(f)	For the purpose of determining the choice of vacation periods, seniority shall be applied by shift (day and night) and by the following departments (employees at 46 Overlea Blvd. and 42 Overlea Blvd. being considered to be in different "departments"):
•	Production Department (includes Production)
•	Warehouse Department (includes Building Maintenance)
•	Equipment Service Department
THORNCLIFFE
24
•	Garage Department
•	Inter Plant Transfer Department
•	Distribution Department (includes Full Service Vending)
(g)	Notwithstanding the other provisions of this clause 12.09, it is agreed that when an employee transfers to another job and has not taken his/her vacation, he/she shall select their vacation based on the scheduling of that new job and department. However, if such a transfer is a mandatory re-assignment by the Company to meet the needs of the business, the affected employee’s original vacation preferences will be honoured.
(h)	It is agreed that this clause 12.09 shall not be construed as preventing the Company from granting vacation periods in excess of the minimum periods set out above, if it believes the particular circumstances are such that this may be done without adversely affecting the requirements and efficiency of operations.
12.10	Every employee whose employment with the Company is terminated during the life of this Agreement shall be entitled to a vacation pay allowance based on the length of his/her continuous employment with the Company and his/her total earnings during the period, if any, in respect of which he/she has not received a paid vacation. Such vacation allowances shall be computed as follows:
(a)	If the employee has not completed his/her first year of continuous employment, he/she will receive as vacation pay on termination the applicable percentage of his/her total earnings during the period of his/her employment, less any vacation pay already granted.
(b)	If the employee has completed one or more years of continuous employment and has taken all of the annual vacation to which he/she was entitled, in respect of his/her last completed year of continuous employment, he/she will receive as vacation pay on termination the applicable percentage of his/her total earnings from the last anniversary of his/her employment until the date of termination, less any vacation pay already granted in respect of the uncompleted year of continuous employment between the last anniversary of employment and the date of termination.
(c)	If the employee has completed one or more years of continuous employment and has not taken all the annual vacation to which he/she was entitled in respect of his/her last completed year of continuous employment, he/she will receive as vacation pay on termination:
(i)	the applicable percentage of his/her total earnings during the last completed year of continuous employment, less any vacation pay already granted in respect of that year
-- plus -
(ii)	the applicable percentage of his/her total earnings from the last anniversary of his/her employment until the date of termination.
(d)	The applicable percentage of earnings as referred to in (a), (b), and (c) above will be during the life of this agreement:
THORNCLIFFE
25
% Applicable to the Period of Continuous Employment Shown at Left
From	To
Date of commencement of
continuous employment	4th anniversary	4%
4th anniversary	9th anniversary	6%
9th anniversary	19th anniversary	8%
19th anniversary	29th anniversary	10%
29th anniversary	and up	12%
12.11	Notwithstanding anything in this Article contained, an employee granted a leave of absence under the provisions of clause 6.04 hereof in any year of his/her continuous employment, shall be granted and shall take a pro-rated vacation with pay in respect of the portion of that year during which he/she was not on such leave of absence.
12.12	The Company will require all employees to take their full vacation entitlement annually, effective immediately. Where an employee has been absent during the current vacation year for reasons of disability then such vacation time owing shall be scheduled between the employee and their supervisor.
12.13	Employees who are entitled to receive four (4) or more weeks of annual vacation entitlement shall have the option, on a yearly basis, to bank one (1) week of such vacation for the purposes of allowing the employee to retire at an earlier date. All such banked vacation shall be paid out, prior to the employee’s retirement, at the rate at which it was earned and banked.
For purposes of administering the foregoing, the number of weeks that the employee has banked will be divided into the accumulated dollar value of these weeks and that amount shall be paid on a weekly basis to the employee for each banked week prior to his actual retirement date. During the period that the employee is using his banked vacation time, he shall continue to accrue pension benefits and maintain the health and welfare benefits provided for in the collective agreement for regular full-time employees. The employee and the Union will receive a statement of such banked time on a yearly basis.
ARTICLE 13 - LONG SERVICE LEAVE
13.01	In recognition of and appreciation for long association with the Company, each employee who during the life of this Agreement completes his/her 25th, 30th, 35th, 40th, or 45th year of continuous employment with the Company shall, on completion of each such fifth year of employment, qualify for a special Long Service Leave. Each such Long Service Leave will be of two (2) weeks duration and the employee will be paid for each week of such absence an amount equal to his/her regular hourly rate, multiplied by forty (40).
Regular full time employees who are hired by the Company after August 2, 2001 will not be eligible for the foregoing provision after that date.
ARTICLE 14 - WORK CLOTHING
14.01	The Company will supply to each employee (other than a temporary employee) without cost as reasonably required by him/her during each year of this Agreement the items of Standard Work Clothing to the total amounts specified in the following schedule or as selected in accordance with the points system:
THORNCLIFFE
26
Group 2
D.S.I.C., Delivery Salesperson	- 8 Oxford Shirts, either long or short sleeve
Sales Equipment Serviceperson,	- 8 Pairs of Pleated pants or shorts
and Highway Tractor Trailer	- 1 3-in-1 jacket (as needed)
Drivers, Mechanics	- 1 Cap or toque (as needed)
-	1 Parka (as needed)
-	3 Sweatshirts
Group 3
(A) Bottling Machine Operators	A	B
(b)	Syrup, Quality Control - 8 Oxford shirts	- 8 White shirts
Employees	- 8 pairs pleated pants	- 8 White pants
- 1 3-in-1 jacket (as needed) -1 3-in-1 jacket (as needed)
Group 4
All employees working within	- 8 Oxford shirts, long or short sleeve
the plant other than temporary - 8 Pairs of pleated pants employees and employees	- 3 Sweatshirts
covered by Group No. 2 or	- 1 3-in-1 jacket (as needed)
No. 3
The Company agrees to provide any accessories i.e. belts, required as part of the standard uniform.
14.02	Every employee to whom work clothing is provided under this Article 14 is expected to wear such during his/her working hours.
14.03	Following completion of the probationary period, new regular employees will be issued work clothing as soon as practical and such first issue will be a full year's entitlement, as set out above (in second and subsequent years of employment, the employee will receive the regular annual issue).
14.04	When a regular employee qualifies for issue of safety footwear he/she may purchase approved safety footwear from the supplier of his/her choice. On presentation to the Company of evidence of purchase of approved footwear, the Company will reimburse such employee, effective August 2, 2004, up to the maximum safety footwear allowance of $175 per year. Any cost in excess of the allowance shall be paid by the employee. To meet the required safety standards, all such footwear must be green patch and any additional safety footwear purchased for at-work wear must meet the same specifications.
Probationary employees are required to purchase their own approved safety footwear and will receive the allowance on successful completion of their probationary period and appointment as a regular employee.
Temporary employees are required to provide their own approved safety footwear. However, if a temporary employee is accepted as a regular employee he/she will, on reclassification or on completion of his/her probationary period, whichever is later, be paid the safety footwear allowance.
ARTICLE 15 - BEREAVEMENT PAY
15.01	In the event of the death of a spouse, common-law spouse, same sex partner, child, father, mother, brother, sister, mother-in-law, or father-in-law of an employee, that employee will be allowed such time off, with pay, as may be reasonably required in the circumstances. The extent of such leave shall be in the sole discretion of the Company, but the general standard
THORNCLIFFE
27
will be three (3) days during the seven (7) days following the date of death on which the employee would have been scheduled to be at work were it not for the bereavement. In the event of the death of an employee's grandmother, grandfather, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, daughter-in-law, or son-in-law, that employee will be allowed one (1) day off, with pay, to attend the funeral. It is further agreed that these provisions shall be interpreted to include step-relatives and common-law spouses. It is also agreed that the bereavement leave as referred to herein may be increased by up to two (2) days' travel time, provided that such additional time off is necessary in the particular circumstances and that approval is obtained in advance of departure.
ARTICLE 16 - PAID TIME OFF
16.01	Jury Duty
An employee who is called for Jury Duty or who is subpoenaed to appear in Court as a witness will receive for each day of necessary absence on that account the difference between his/her regular earnings for that day and the amount of the fee received from the Court, provided that the employee furnishes the Company with a certificate of service and satisfactory evidence as to the amount of fee received.
16.02	Sick Pay
(a)	Every regular employee who has completed one or more years of continuous employment with the Company shall be entitled, in each year of the life of this Agreement, to payment for up to 48 hours of absence due to Bonafide illness, (in the event that an employee commences work but becomes ill during the course of the day and does not complete his/her scheduled shift, such part day of absence will, for the purpose of this clause 16.02, be counted as one-half (%) day of absence due to illness). Such payments shall be in an amount equal to 100% of the employee's regular rate of pay as of the first day of the contract year and any unused credits shall be paid to the employee within thirty (30) days of the end of that contract year.
(b)	The sick pay credit of a regular employee who has not completed a full year of continuous employment with the Company shall be computed on the basis of a one-half (%) day credit for each completed month of continuous employment.
(c)	No payment shall be made under this clause 16.02 for any day of absence in respect of which the employee is eligible for full or partial payment under any other clause of this Agreement or from any plan or fund to which the Company contributes (e.g. the Group Insurance Plan, WSIB, Employment Insurance, Government Pension Plan, etc.).
(d)	An employee who, at the conclusion of the contract year, has an unused sick pay credit of at least 40 hours may, provided he/she has not been absent in that contract year for any reason other than:
(i)	Bonafide illness, (i.e. a claim for 1 (one) day of illness, leaving 40 hours sick pay credit remaining, shall not disqualify an employee from the provisions of this paragraph 16.02 (d) ), or
(ii)	a paid absence referred to in paragraph (c) above, or
(iii)	an unpaid absence for bereavement, the birth of a son or daughter, or because of the closing of the plant by the Company due to an Act of God;
receive in lieu of the cash payment referred to in paragraph 16.02 (a) above, a 40 hour leave of absence at his/her regular rate of pay. Such leave of absence is to be
THORNCLIFFE
28
taken outside the regular vacation period (as referred to in 12.09(a) hereof) and at a time to be mutually agreed upon by the employee concerned and the Company. Should such an employee have an unused sick pay credit of 48 hours, then in addition to the 5-day leave of absence with pay for which he/she qualified under the above provision, he/she will be paid for the remaining one day at 100% of the regular rate of pay that was in effect for him/her on the first day of the contract year. Provided that such leave of absence is arranged at least two (2) weeks in advance of the date on which it is to commence, the employee will receive payment for the leave prior to his/her departure.
(e)	An employee who is entitled to a 40 hour paid leave of absence under clause 16.02
(d)	may, if he/she so desires, elect to receive a cash payment at his/her regular rate of pay for the 40 hours or 48 hours of unused sick pay credit, as applicable, in lieu of the paid leave of absence.
(f)	Notwithstanding the foregoing, an employee scheduled for a 4 x 10 hour work week may draw sick pay in units of ten (10) hours for each day of absence, up to the annual maximum of forty-eight (48) hours of paid absence due to illness.
(g)	The Company will reimburse an employee whom it requires to bring in a completed PGF Form up to $100 per contract year towards the actual Doctor’s fee for same.
(h)	Employees absent from work due to illness shall be required to report such illness to their immediate supervisor, in advance, according to the procedures for reporting such absence established in the employee’s department. Employees will report in advance of one (1) hour.
16.03	At Work Accidents
Where an employee is the victim of an accident while at work and so suffers an injury requiring professional medical attention, the Company agrees that he/she shall suffer no loss of earnings on the day of the accident by reason of his/her necessary absence from work to receive such treatment.
16.04	Any employee who as a result of their employment is required to appear in court as a result of an alleged violation of the Highway Traffic Act, shall be paid for up to one (1) day, provided that the employee provides proof that he was not guilty of the alleged violation.
ARTICLE 17 - WAGES
17.01	The Wage Brackets and the hourly wage rate applicable to each such Wage Bracket, as set out below, shall apply to other than temporary employees and Engineering Department Machine Maintenance Person, and shall be maintained during the life of this Agreement
	Year 1	Year 2	Year 3
Wage Bracket 1 General Help	$26.54	$26.93	$27.33
Wage Bracket 2	$26.74	$27.14	$27.54
Sales Equipment Service Trainees Shunter (with Class A licence) Equipment Preparation/Setup
THORNCLIFFE
29
Wage Bracket 3
Shippers & Receivers Sales Equipment Delivery
$27.34
$27.75
$28.16
Wage Bracket 4	$28.40	$28.82
Sales Equipment Serviceperson
Wage Bracket 5**	$32.47	$32.95
Journeyman Automotive Maintenance Person
**Plus a skilled trades adjustment of $0.30 per hour.
WAGE BRACKETS FOR DELIVERY AND SALES PERSONNEL
Year 1	Year 2
Wage Bracket 1	$28.34	$28.76
Delivery
Salesperson-In-Charge
The Job Rate for a Lead Hand will be determined by adding a wage differential of eighty cents ($.80) per hour to the Job Rate shown above for the highest classification of work normally performed by the person regularly led by that Lead Hand.
17.02	It is understood and agreed that the Company, in hiring any new employee other than a temporary employee, may pay him/her:
(a)	until the commencement of the first week following the completion of his/her probationary period, at a rate three dollars fifty cents ($3.50) per hour less than the Job Rate of the job to which he/she is assigned, and
(b)	thereafter and until the commencement of the first week following the completion of his/her subsequent three (3) months of continuous employment, at a rate one dollar seventy-five cents ($1.75) per hour less than the Job Rate of the job to which he/she is assigned, and
(c)	thereafter at the Job Rate of the job to which he/she is assigned.
17.03	It is understood and agreed that the rate for temporary employees (as defined in clause 2.03 hereof), will be as follows:
Temporary Rates	Year 1	Year 2	Year 3
Warehouse	$20.54	$20.54	$20.54
Driver	$22.34	$22.34	$22.34
Should any preferred temporary employee at the date of the ratification of this agreement achieve full-time status during the life of this agreement, he/she will receive a retroactive payment of the difference between his/her temporary employee rate and the applicable fulltime wage rate for all hours worked between the ratification of this agreement and the date he/she achieves full-time.
17.04	Where an employee is temporarily transferred to a job which carries a higher rate of pay than the job from which he/she was transferred and provided that he/she remains in such
$29.25
$33.44
Year 3 $29.19
THORNCLIFFE
30
higher rated job for a period of more than one (1) consecutive hour, he/she shall be paid at the higher rate for all time worked in such higher rated job.
17.05	Where an employee is temporarily transferred to a job which carries a lower rate of pay than the job from which he/she was transferred and while work is available for him/her in the job from which he/she was transferred, he/she shall continue to be paid at the higher rate. Where, however, there is no work available for him/her in the job from which he/she was transferred, he/she shall be paid at the rate of the job to which he/she was transferred.
17.06	In all cases of permanent transfers, the transferred employee will be paid the rate of the job to which he/she is transferred.
ARTICLE 18 - OPERATIONAL CHANGE
18.01	(a) If, during the life of this Agreement, the Company wishes to make an operational change in its operations which would have the effect of abolishing existing job classifications or creating new job classifications or which would result in the layoff of any regular employee, the Company agrees that, before introducing such operational change, it will meet with the Union to discuss the matter and to attempt to resolve the problems created by such operational change, as well as to attempt to lessen the impact of such operational change on the employees affected.
(b)	If, as a result of an operational change in the Company's operations, an employee is assigned to a job having a lower rate of pay than the rate of pay he/she formerly received, he/she shall continue to be paid at his/her former rate of pay until the job rate for his/her new classification equals his/her former rate.
(c)	If a regular employee should be displaced from his/her job by reason of an operational change in the Company's operations, and provided the employee has the necessary qualifications to perform the work available after a reasonable training period, the Company shall arrange, where feasible, for him/her to receive such training.
(d)	In the event of a plant closing or sale, any employee who then has seniority standing shall:
(i)	if he/she has more than five (5) years seniority, have the right to displace an employee with less than five (5) years seniority at any other plant at which the Union holds bargaining rights, or has a reciprocal transfer agreement or,
(ii)	if he/she has less than five (5) years seniority, be given preferential hiring rights (for a period of eighteen (18) months following such closing) at any other plant at which the Union holds bargaining rights or has a reciprocal transfer agreement;
provided, however, that such employee can satisfactorily fulfil the normal requirements of the job which is so made available to him/her. Once so relocated, such employee shall carry full seniority with him/her into the new plant.
(e)	(i) Should any major operation currently being performed by the bargaining unit
be transferred from Thorncliffe (whether in connection with a full facility closure or not) to another Company location within a fifty (50) mile radius of Toronto, then a number of seniority employees, equal to the number who performed the moved work at Thorncliffe immediately prior to the move, will,
THORNCLIFFE
31
as an alternative to any seniority rights they may have within the bargaining unit, have the opportunity to transfer to the new location, provided the employees can satisfactorily fulfil the normal requirements of any job available at the new location.
(ii)	Should more employees wish to transfer hereunder than the number permitted under (i), the selection shall be made by CAW seniority.
(iii)	Employees moving under (i) shall maintain their Company service for pension and vacation entitlement purposes.
(iv)	Employees moving under (i) shall be deemed to have completed their probationary period at the new location. Their seniority at the new location will be determined in accordance with the provisions which may be in effect at that facility. Where, under those seniority provisions, transferring CAW employees have the same seniority date, their relative seniority standing at the new location will be determined by reference to relative seniority standing in the CAW bargaining unit prior to the move.
(v)	If the location to which the work is moved is a non-union facility, and if the employees transferred under this provision represent a majority of employees at the new location, the Union will be recognized as representing all employees in a like bargaining unit at such location and the terms and conditions of this Agreement will be deemed to apply to them for the balance of its duration.
(vi)	If, as a result of the movement of work in (i), a seniority employee does not immediately have the opportunity for regular full time employment at either the new location or Thorncliffe, such employee will be entitled to elect an enhanced severance provision. The enhanced severance shall be a lump sum of $20,000 for employees with five or fewer years of service; $30,000, for employees with 6 to 10 years of service and $40,000, for employees with more than 10 years of service. The above severance provisions are inclusive of any entitlements under the Employment Standards Act. Employees electing to receive this severance provision will immediately forfeit any and all seniority, benefit and/or employment rights at any and all Company facilities.
(vii)	The Company will, in addition to the above, offer a voluntary early retirement incentive Package under the pension plan. Pursuant to this Package, a specified number of employees in the bargaining unit who have attained a minimum age 50 or whose combined age plus years of service equals 75 or more at the time of the movement of work will have the opportunity to retire and receive an enhanced supplementary benefit. The number of employees who will have this opportunity will not exceed the difference between the number of new full time openings at the new location and the number of employees who performed the moved work at Thorncliffe immediately prior to the move. Preference for electing the Package will be determined by seniority. The pension benefit level will be an amount equal to the pension paid in the Early Retirement Incentive Package introduced after the Turnberry closure in January 1998. Pension enhancements are subject to the limitations of the Income Tax Act for a registered Pension Plan. For employees who retire under this Package, these provisions shall replace
THORNCLIFFE
32
those contained in paragraphs (d) and (e) of the Employees Retirement Plan Letter of Agreement.
(f)	If the Company intends to close the Thorncliffe facility during the life of this Agreement, it will provide the Union with one hundred and fifty (150) days notice thereof to permit the parties to meet and discuss the closure and ways to minimize the effect of same on members of the bargaining unit.
ARTICLE 19 - SAFETY
19.01	The Company shall institute and maintain all precautions to provide every employee with a safe and healthy workplace. The Company shall comply in a timely manner with the Occupational Health and Safety Act (OHSA), its regulations and all relevant laws. All standards established under these laws shall constitute minimum acceptable practice to be improved upon through recommendations from the JHSC.
(a)	The Company will make all reasonable provisions for the health and safety of the employees during working hours and will furnish adequate facilities and equipment for that purpose. The Company and the Union mutually agree that employees should be encouraged to co-operate in the maintenance of healthy and safe working conditions, in the proper use of protective clothing and equipment, and in the observance of all safety rules.
(b)	The Joint Health and Safety Committee (JHSC) shall have two co-chairs; one from the Union and one from the Company, both of whom shall be certified members.
(c)	The Company shall respond to all recommendations advanced by the JHSC within 21 days. The responses shall contain outlines identifying dates of completion, which representative is responsible for the recommendation, reasons why they were not completed and, reasons why the recommendation was rejected.
(d)	Each departmental committee representatives shall complete work place audits once every month. The audit shall take place at least one week prior to the monthly meeting and the audit findings will be forwarded to the department managers and JHSC members. The department managers, or their designates, shall then write work orders. Work orders shall indicate a timeline for completion and a copy shall be provided to the JHSC.
(e)	A certified Company representative and a certified Union representative shall investigate all critical injuries, as defined by the OHSA.
(f)	The Company shall furnish the co-chairs with information pertaining to health and safety issues. The Company shall promptly supply the results of any monitoring it conducts or causes to be conducted to the JHSC and shall post the results in a conspicuous place as soon as reasonably practicable thereafter.
(g)	During the absences of the Union co-chair, the Company shall recognize an alternate co-chair, as designated by the Union. The Union’s designate shall then fill the resultant vacancy on the JHSC.
19.02	To further the above-mentioned objectives, it is mutually agreed that Joint Health and Safety Committee will be maintained and shall be comprised of three (3) members and one (1) alternate appointed by the Union and three (3) members appointed by the Company.
THORNCLIFFE
33
19.03	(a) Joint Health and Safety Committee members shall receive training appropriate for
their responsibilities and shall operate in accordance with written guidelines adopted by the Committee.
(b) The Union members of the JHSC will receive forty (40) hours of Health and Safety training per contract year. This training will be as provided in the past by the Workers Health and Safety Centre or, if not available, another training provider as determined by the JHSC. This training will be paid for by the Company.
19.04	The Union members of the JHSC will receive the two hours with pay immediately prior to the JHSC meeting, in order to prepare for JHSC meetings. In addition to the above, the Committee members shall, during the life of this collective agreement, be afforded the necessary time off with pay, as required and agreed to by the Committee in order to attend to duties as prescribed by the OhSa in force as of July 30, 2001. The two co-chairs shall alternate the chairing of the meetings and the preparation of the minutes of the meetings. The minutes will be posted within ten (10) working days of the meeting.
19.05	The Company shall comply with the procedures and requirements of the following policies and any amendments thereto, which would supersede them:
•	Safety Concern Reporting Procedure
•	Right to Refuse Unsafe Work
•	Lockout Procedure/Zero Energy
•	Employee Emergency Procedure
•	Accident/Incident Reporting Procedure
•	Commercial Motor Vehicle Driver Training
•	Forklift Truck Training
•	JHSC Guidelines
•	Brake Inspection Procedures
•	Process for Investigating Customer Outlets
The JHSC shall review the policies at least once per year.
19.06	Any ergonomics studies that the Company may receive shall be for advisory purposes only.
It is further agreed that such reports shall in no way bind the Company with respect to the implementation of any part of the study as therein provided.
ARTICLE 20 - WORK OF BARGAINING UNIT
20.01	Operations Supervisors will not normally perform work customarily performed by employees in the bargaining unit, except:
(a)	as a result of urgent or emergency conditions;
(b)	for the purposes of demonstration or training;
(c)	to occasionally relieve an employee for a short period; or
(d)	when a regular employee is not available due to being late for work or absent from work and a suitable replacement is not available.
20.02	The Company agrees that if the contracting out of any work normally performed by employees in the bargaining unit would result in the layoff of any regular employee, the Company will meet with the union to discuss ways and means of reducing the impact of such change on the employee(s) to be affected.
THORNCLIFFE
34
The Company also agrees that it will not, during the life of this Agreement, extend its present practices with respect to the contracting out of work, provided that the Company has the capability (i.e. the facilities, equipment and/or required workforce skills) to perform such work within the bargaining unit without serious impairment to the normal efficiency of operations.
ARTICLE 21 - HEALTH INSURANCE PLANS
21.01	(a) It is agreed that, subject to any future legislation affecting such matters, the Company's Extended Group Insurance Plan (which provides Life, Major Medical, Weekly Income and Dental Care Benefits) will be in force during the life of this Agreement:
(i)	Life Insurance:
•	Coverage of $60,000
(ii)	Accidental Death & Dismemberment:
•	Coverage of $120,000 (single, business and non-business coverage)
(iii)	Weekly Income Benefits:
•	The Weekly Income Benefits will be sixty-six and two-thirds (66-2/3%) percent of regular straight time earnings to a maximum of $650/week up to a maximum of thirty-nine (39) weeks.
(iv)	Dental Care Plan:
•	The Dental Care Plan will provide a calendar year maximum Preventative/Major Treatment benefit per individual of $2,000 and a maximum Orthodontic Treatment benefit lifetime limit of $3,000 per child
(v)	Supplemental Medical	Plan:
Annual Maximum:
An annual maximum of $20,000 is provided for drugs and other eligible expenses (A, B, C and D as per Benefits Summary) combined,
Prescription Drug Coverage:
The prescription drug benefit provides for reimbursement of one hundred percent (100%) of eligible expenses.
•	Vision Care
The Vision Care benefit will provide a maximum reimbursement of $275 per insured family member in each twenty-four (24) month period. Such amount may be applied to laser eye surgery.
Coverage for reasonable and customary charges for one (1) vision exam in each twenty-four (24) month period.
Employees may utilize the vision care benefit for laser eye surgery, with the understanding that further reimbursement for eyewear will be permanently discontinued unless the surgery was unsuccessful.
THORNCLIFFE
35
•	Coverage for Speech Pathologist of $750.00 per year.
•	Coverage for Psychologist of $400 per calendar year
•	Coverage for Chiropractic of $350 per calendar year
•	Coverage for Osteopath/Naturopath/Podiatrist of $350.00 per calendar year
•	Coverage for Orthopaedic Shoes of $300.00 per calendar year
(vi)	Long-Term Disability Plan
The Company's Long Term Disability Plan shall be as follows:
1.	The Weekly Income Benefit coverage maximum benefit period is 39 weeks. The
Company will pay 100% of the revised W.I.B. premiums.
2.	The Long Term Disability Insurance program for all regular full-time employees
includes the following features:
(a)	The benefit is based on 66-2/3% of regular straight-time earnings in effect at the time disability commences, up to a maximum monthly benefit of $2,800.
(b)	Benefits will be payable monthly, after a qualifying W.I.B. period of 39 weeks of continuous absence due to "disability", and will continue as long as "total disability" lasts, up to age 65, or until the employee elects retirement, whichever comes first.
(c)	"Disability" will mean an incapacity which prevents the employee from performing his/her regular duties during the qualifying W.I.B. period of 39 weeks and the following L.T.D. benefit period of 104 weeks. If still disabled after a combined benefit period of 143 weeks, disability is then considered total if it prevents the employee from performing any work for which he/she is reasonably qualified by education, training or experience.
(d)	Benefits payable under the L.T.D. plan will be reduced by the amount of disability income benefit, if any, payable by the Canada/Quebec Pension Plan (primary benefit only) or by WSIB. The policy shall include such limitations and restrictions as are usually found in L.T.D. policies.
(e)	Participation in the L.T.D. plan will be mandatory for all eligible employees on completion of the probationary period. Coverage is effective on the date the employee becomes eligible, provided he/she is at work on such date. If the employee is absent from work on the date of eligibility, L.T.D. coverage will not become effective until he/she returns to active employment.
(f)	Pre-existing conditions are not covered unless the employee, after becoming insured, has been actively working for 3 consecutive months with no absence related to the pre-existing condition.
(g)	The Company shall pay 100% of the L.T.D. premium.
THORNCLIFFE
36
3.	(a) During the 143 week benefit period referred to in point 2(c) above, the Company will continue in force the Life, Supplemental Medical and Dental Care Benefits referred to in this Article.
(b)	The Company will continue to pay the full premium for Life, Supplemental Medical Coverage, the Weekly Income Benefit, LTD and Dental Care for all full time regular employees who have completed their probationary period. It is further agreed and recognized by the parties that the Company will provide the foregoing benefits through an Insurance carrier and will, in no circumstances, be considered as the insurer, and will be obliged hereunder only to pay the premiums for the foregoing benefits.
(c)	Employees who transfer to Thorncliffe from other locations of the Company shall, for the purposes of the foregoing benefits be deemed to have unbroken service and any maximum entitlements, or other matters shall continue to apply, uninterrupted.
21.02	It is further agreed that, in consideration of improvements contained in this Agreement, and subject to the provisions of the Employment Insurance Act, the Company shall retain in full any "Premium Reduction” which is or may become available from the Employment Insurance Commission upon their continued acceptance of the Company's plan of Weekly Income Benefits as a "qualifying registered plan".
ARTICLE 22 - PAID EDUCATION LEAVE
22.01	The Company agrees to pay into a special fund three cents ($.04) per hour per employee for all compensated hours for the purpose of providing paid education leave. Said paid education leave will be for the purpose of upgrading the employee's skills in all aspects of Trade Union functions. Such monies to be paid on a quarterly basis into a trust fund established by the CAW - Canada, and sent by the Company to the CAW Paid Education Leave Program, Box 897, Port Elgin, Ontario, N0H 2C0.
22.02	The Company further agrees that, provided approval is sought and obtained at least thirty (30) days in advance of such absence, members of the bargaining unit, selected by the Union to attend such courses will be granted a leave of absence without pay for twenty (20) days of class time, plus travel time where necessary. Paid leave of absence to be intermittent over a twelve (12) month period from the first day of leave.
22.03	Employees on Paid Education Leave will continue to accrue seniority and benefits during such leave.
ARTICLE 23 - SOCIAL JUSTICE FUND
23.01	The Company will contribute one cent ($.02) per hour per employee to the C.A.W. Social Justice Fund. Such monies to be paid quarterly.
ARTICLE 24 - TOOL REIMBURSEMENT
24.01	Fleet Maintenance employees shall maintain their own tool kits. Upon presentation of an original receipt for expenses, the Company will reimburse employees in the above classifications up to an annual maximum of $500 for the purchase, repair or replacement of required work tools.
THORNCLIFFE
37
The Company will provide to every new Equipment Service Technician a standard set of necessary job related tools. Thereafter, upon presentation of an original receipt for expenses, the Company will reimburse each Equipment Service Technician up to an annual maximum of $240 from which they may replace worn, broken or lost work-required tools. Any expenses in excess of the annual $240 shall be the sole responsibility of the Equipment Service Technician.
There shall be carry over from year to year of the reimbursement provided for the life of the Collective Agreement.
ARTICLE 25 - DURATION OF AGREEMENT
25.01 This Agreement shall be effective from August 1, 2010 and shall terminate at July 26, 2013.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the Parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be executed by their respective duly authorized representatives at the City of Toronto, in the Province of Ontario, this 25th day of January, 2011.
FOR THE UNION	FOR MANAGEMENT
lose Alonso
rry Fernandas
JairrWn Kozlowsky


Thurston
Allan Cassidy
Mike Reuter

Serafim
Pickett
Bob Melnyk
THORNCLIFFE
38
APPENDIX "A"
Any matter referred to arbitration as provided for in Article 7 hereof shall be heard by a single arbitrator who shall be chosen having regard to his/her impartiality, his/her qualifications in the interpretation of agreements and his/her familiarity with industrial matters.
An earnest effort will be made by both the Company and the Union to reach mutual agreement on the person to be requested to serve as arbitrator but if such agreement cannot be reached within fifteen (15) working days of the date of notice of arbitration, then the parties shall make joint application to the Ontario Labour-Management Arbitration Commission for a list of arbitrators and shall proceed with the selection of an arbitrator under the provisions of the Ontario Labour-Management Arbitration Commission Act.
The Company and the Union shall each be responsible for one-half (1/2) of the expenses of and fees payable to the arbitrator. To assist in the process, once a matter has been referred to arbitration, the parties will meet prior to the initial arbitration date to disclose any available documents which are relevant and pertinent to the grievance.
The rules of arbitration set out below shall govern the conduct of any arbitration proceedings hereunder.
RULES OF ARBITRATION
1.	Arbitration shall be held at the City of Toronto, in the Province of Ontario.
2.	In any arbitration:
(i)	in the case of an Individual Grievance, the written representations of the employee made at Step 3 and the written decision therein of the Company representative shall be presented to the arbitrator and the award of the arbitrator shall be confined to determining the issue therein set out.
(ii)	in the case of a Collective Grievance or a Company/Union Grievance, the submission in writing by one party and the written reply of the other party shall be presented to the arbitrator and the award of the arbitrator shall be confined to determining the issue therein set out.
3.	The findings of the arbitrator as to the facts and as to the interpretation, application, administration or alleged violation of the provisions of this Agreement shall be conclusive and binding upon the Company, the Union and the employees. In any arbitration hereunder the presumption shall be until the contrary shall have been proven that the provisions of this Agreement have been complied with.
4.	The arbitrator shall not be authorized to alter, modify or amend any part of this Agreement or to substitute his/her opinion or judgement for that of the Company; provided, however, that this restriction is in no way intended to limit the scope of action provided to the arbitrator under Section 37(8) of the Ontario Labour Relations Act with respect to grievances concerning discharge or discipline.
5.	Each party to an arbitration shall be entitled, through counsel or otherwise, to present evidence, to cross-examine the witnesses of the other party and to present oral arguments. Briefs of argument may be presented by each party and each party shall be entitled to reply to the brief of argument presented by the other.
THORNCLIFFE
39
6.	Witness fees and allowances shall be paid by the party calling the witness.
7.	No costs of any arbitration shall be awarded to or against either party.
FOR THE UNION	FOR MANAGEMENT
[signed]	[signed]	[signed]	[signed]
Terry Fernandes	Shane Thurston	Jose Alonso	Allan Cassidy
[signed]	[signed]	[signed]	[signed]
Mike Reuter	Derrick Stairs	Mike McGarragle	Darryl Serafini
[signed]	[signed]	[signed]	[signed]
Sheldon Pickett	Bob Melnyk	Jasmyn Kozlowsky	Stephen Satchel
THORNCLIFFE
40
Between:
LETTER OF AGREEMENT #1
National Automobile Aerospace, Transportation and General Workers Union of Canada (CAW - Canada), Local 385
- and -
Coca-Cola Refreshments Canada Company (Thorncliffe Plant)
Re:	Employees' Retirement Plan
It is agreed that the Employees' Retirement Plan, as it may be amended from time-to-time, will continue in force for employees of the Company who are covered by the Collective Bargaining Agreement, so long as it shall remain in force, unless in the meantime, the parties hereto should mutually agree, in writing, to enter into some alternative arrangements for the provision of pension benefits to some or all of the employees covered by this Agreement.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the parties have agreed to continue the non-contributory, flat benefit pension arrangement for the C.A.W. (CAW-ERP) bargaining unit at Thorncliffe.
Basic Benefit
The non-contributory pension benefit will apply to all employees on attainment of two years seniority. Increases to the CAW-ERP non-contributory basic benefit shall be, as follows:
(i) For employees who retire on or after August 1, 2010 the basic benefit is $56.25 per month for each year of C.A.W. credited service after January 1, 1992.
The benefit referred to above shall be in the form of a life annuity, with a guarantee of payments for a minimum of 10 years. However, if an employee is married at the time retirement income commences, then a benefit in the same amount shall be payable in the form of a 60% Joint and Survivor income, unless the member and his/her spouse opt for other arrangements in accordance with the provisions of the Ontario Pension Benefits Act. The requirement for a common law spouse shall be one (1) year.
Supplemental Benefit
In the case of retirement at or after age 60, a monthly supplementary benefit is available and shall be payable from the retirement date until attainment of age 65. This supplementary benefit shall be, as follows:
(i) For employees who retire at or after age 60, but before age 65 on or after August 1,2010, the supplementary benefit is $30.50 per month, for each year of C.A.W. credited service after January 1, 1992.
The Basic benefit and the Supplemental benefit referred to above will be unreduced if commenced on or after age 62. There shall be a 3% per annum reduction for each year of retirement prior to age 62.
For the purposes of the following two paragraphs, "layoffs” shall mean "layoff to the street” which is time off with no credited service.
Employees with more than 10 years seniority at the date of layoff, shall be credited with 40 hours for each complete calendar week of such year and provided that such employee shall have worked for the Company during that year for at least 175 hours, and provided further that if such layoff
THORNCLIFFE
41
continues after that year the employee shall be credited with 40 hours for each complete week of absence after that year, not to exceed 1,575 hours of credit for all such absence due to layoff.
An employee who has 20 or more years of seniority at the time of layoff, and while on such layoff has received the maximum of 1,575 hours of credit for periods of absence due to layoff, in accordance with the preceding paragraph, and continues thereafter to be absent due to such layoff shall be credited with 40 hours for each complete week of absence due to such layoff to a maximum of 1,750 hours of credit. For greater certainty the maximum amount of credited service for an employee shall not exceed 3,325 hours of credit for all such absence due to layoff.
The term "spouse” as used in the Pension Plan includes same sex partner. Conditions for coverage will be the same as for common-law relationships.
FOR THE UNION	FOR MANAGEMENT
[signed]	[signed]	[signed]	[signed]
Terry Fernandes	Shane Thurston	Jose Alonso	Allan Cassidy
[signed]	[signed]	[signed]	[signed]
Mike Reuter	Derrick Stairs	Mike McGarragle	Darryl Serafini
[signed]	[signed]	[signed]	[signed]
Sheldon Pickett	Bob Melnyk	Jasmyn Kozlowsky	Stephen Satchel
THORNCLIFFE
42
Between:
LETTER OF INTENT #2
National Automobile Aerospace, Transportation and General Workers Union of Canada (CAW - Canada), Local 385
- and -
Coca-Cola Refreshments Canada Company (Thorncliffe Plant)
Re:	New Employee Orientation
The Company agrees to acquaint new employees with the fact that a Collective Agreement is in effect and with the conditions of employment set out in the articles dealing with the Union Security and Dues Check-Off. A new employee shall be advised of the name and location of the appropriate Union representative. Whenever the Union representative is employed in the same work area as the new employee, the employee's immediate supervisor will introduce him/her to his/her Union representative who will provide the employee with a copy of the Collective Agreement. The Company shall ensure that the Union has a sufficient supply of collective agreements in order to fulfil this obligation.
The Company agrees that a Union representative will be given an opportunity to interview, within regular working hours, each new temporary employee once they have worked 65 days or, new probationary employees, for not more than fifteen minutes, without loss of pay. The purpose of this interview is to acquaint the new employee with the benefits and duties of Union membership and the employee's responsibilities and obligations to the Company and the Union.
FOR THE UNION	FOR MANAGEMENT
[signed]	[signed]	[signed]	[signed]
Terry Fernandes	Shane Thurston	Jose Alonso	Allan Cassidy
[signed]	[signed]	[signed]	[signed]
Mike Reuter	Derrick Stairs	Mike McGarragle	Darryl Serafini
[signed]	[signed]	[signed]	[signed]
Sheldon Pickett	Bob Melnyk	Jasmyn Kozlowsky	Stephen Satchel
THORNCLIFFE
43
Between:
LETTER OF INTENT #3
National Automobile Aerospace, Transportation and General Workers Union of Canada (CAW - Canada), Local 385
- and -
Coca-Cola Refreshments Canada Company (Thorncliffe Plant) Re:	Substance Abuse
Substance Abuse is recognized to be a serious medical and social problem that can affect employees. The Company and the Union have a strong interest in encouraging early treatment and assisting employees towards full rehabilitation.
Accordingly, following execution of the 2001 renewal Collective Agreement, a representative of the Company and a representative of the Union will be appointed by the respective parties to establish and administer a Substance Abuse Program. Such program will basically consist of methods to communicate to employees the availability of confidential referral services, including the Company sponsored_Employee Assistance Program, as well as referrals to appropriate counseling services or treatment and rehabilitation facilities. In addition, from time to time, the Union member may have to act as Union Counselor with troubled employees, and time off for such duties shall not be unreasonably denied by the Company, provided that such time off is requested from the Union Counselor to the Department Manager or Employee Relations Manager.
The Company will provide normal group insurance benefits to employees who are undergoing a medically prescribed course of treatments. Union Substance Abuse Counsellor will be provided such time off as is reasonably required for the administration of the program.
The operation of this program will be subject to review after its first year of operation, or earlier at the request of either party.
FOR THE UNION	FOR MANAGEMENT
[signed]	[signed]	[signed]	[signed]
Terry Fernandes	Shane Thurston	Jose Alonso	Allan Cassidy
[signed]	[signed]	[signed]	[signed]
Mike Reuter	Derrick Stairs	Mike McGarragle	Darryl Serafini
[signed]	[signed]	[signed]	[signed]
Sheldon Pickett	Bob Melnyk	Jasmyn Kozlowsky	Stephen Satchel
THORNCLIFFE
44
Between:
LETTER OF INTENT #4
National Automobile Aerospace, Transportation and General Workers Union of Canada (CAW - Canada), Local 385
- and -
Coca-Cola Refreshments Canada Company (Thorncliffe Plant)
Re:	"Red-Circled" Rates of Pay
Employees who, as at July 31,2004, had their rate of pay “red-circled”, shall continue to be paid at this rate of pay until the current Collective Agreement expires. The names of such employees will be provided to the Union.
FOR THE UNION	FOR MANAGEMENT
[signed]	[signed]	[signed]	[signed]
Terry Fernandes	Shane Thurston	Jose Alonso	Allan Cassidy
[signed]	[signed]	[signed]	[signed]
Mike Reuter	Derrick Stairs	Mike McGarragle	Darryl Serafini
[signed]	[signed]	[signed]	[signed]
Sheldon Pickett	Bob Melnyk	Jasmyn Kozlowsky	Stephen Satchel
THORNCLIFFE
45
Between:
LETTER OF INTENT #5
National Automobile Aerospace, Transportation and General Workers Union of Canada (CAW - Canada), Local 385
- and -
Coca-Cola Refreshments Canada Company (Thorncliffe Plant) Re:	Ten-hour Shifts
During the negotiations leading to the renewal of the 1995 collective agreement, discussions took place regarding the scheduling of employees who would now be working four (4) ten-hour (10) shifts in a week. It is our intention to maintain a relatively constant scheduling arrangement such that employees can reasonably expect to know what days of the week they will be working. The Company does not foresee based on our best projections at this time that a majority of employees would be regularly scheduled for Saturdays.
The Company will schedule the workweek from January 1 to April 30 and from May 1 to December 31. Changes within either period, may be made by mutual agreement between the Union and Company.
It is understood that the four ten-hour work schedule will be implemented on a gradual basis commencing no earlier than October, in consultation with the Union.
FOR THE UNION	FOR MANAGEMENT
[signed]	[signed]	[signed]	[signed]
Terry Fernandes	Shane Thurston	Jose Alonso	Allan Cassidy
[signed]	[signed]	[signed]	[signed]
Mike Reuter	Derrick Stairs	Mike McGarragle	Darryl Serafini
[signed]	[signed]	[signed]	[signed]
Sheldon Pickett	Bob Melnyk	Jasmyn Kozlowsky	Stephen Satchel
THORNCLIFFE
46
Between:
LETTER OF AGREEMENT #6
National Automobile Aerospace, Transportation and General Workers Union of Canada (CAW - Canada), Local 385
- and -
Coca-Cola Refreshments Canada Company (Thorncliffe Plant)
Re:	Advancement of Pay While Off On Medical Leave Pending Approval of Benefits
Should an employee apply for any occupational or non-occupational medical leave, and require the continuation of pay pending approval of claim, the Company will advance the employee five hundred dollars ($500.00) per pay period until the claim is adjudicated, to a maximum of three thousand dollars ($3,000.00). Pay advance(s) will not commence until all forms, including those providing for authorization of deductions/repayment, are duly completed and the applicable forms are sent to the third party for processing.
Should the claim be approved, the employee will be required to reimburse the Company within thirty (30) days of the receipt of the first payment from the carrier or WSIB. Should however, the claim not be approved, the employee shall authorize the Company to deduct one hundred and fifteen dollars ($115.00) per pay period, or in the case of employees who are laid off, to repay $23.00 per day worked, in order to reimburse the Company from the initial payment(s) until all such advances have been recouped in full. Such payments shall commence on the employee’s first pay date upon return to work.
Further, all balances from outstanding pay advances must be fully recouped prior to an employee being eligible for subsequent pay advances for subsequent claims.
It is understood that the process of pay advance may be used in situations where an employee receives a government issued certificate of Quarantine (i.e. SARS etc.).
FOR THE UNION	FOR MANAGEMENT
[signed]	[signed]	[signed]	[signed]
Terry Fernandes	Shane Thurston	Jose Alonso	Allan Cassidy
[signed]	[signed]	[signed]	[signed]
Mike Reuter	Derrick Stairs	Mike McGarragle	Darryl Serafini
[signed]	[signed]	[signed]	[signed]
Sheldon Pickett	Bob Melnyk	Jasmyn Kozlowsky	Stephen Satchel
THORNCLIFFE
47
Between:
LETTER OF INTENT #7
National Automobile Aerospace, Transportation and General Workers Union of Canada (CAW - Canada), Local 385
- and -
Coca-Cola Refreshments Canada Company (Thorncliffe Plant)
Re:	Load Checking
During negotiations leading to the renewal of the 2001 collective agreement, the Union raised concerns regarding auditors doing work of the bargaining unit.
As a result, the parties have agreed to the following understandings:
•	The Company agrees that the load checking function properly falls within the shipper/receiver classification under the appropriate provisions of the Collective Agreement.
•	The Union recognizes that the Company reserves the right to check for errors in the shipper/receiver work, for overages and shortages. However, auditors shall have no role in the verification of loads.
•	The Company agrees to use shipper/receivers to check all loads. As an additional point of clarification, the opening and closing of bay doors and the sealing of loads during the loading process is work of the bargaining unit.
The parties further agree that the Local Union President and the Sales Centre Manager will meet to review and discuss situations in which the above provisions are violated. However, these meetings will not prohibit the Union from grieving such a violation under the appropriate provisions of the Collective Agreement.
FOR THE UNION	FOR MANAGEMENT
[signed]	[signed]	[signed]	[signed]
Terry Fernandes	Shane Thurston	Jose Alonso	Allan Cassidy
[signed]	[signed]	[signed]	[signed]
Mike Reuter	Derrick Stairs	Mike McGarragle	Darryl Serafini
[signed]	[signed]	[signed]	[signed]
Sheldon Pickett	Bob Melnyk	Jasmyn Kozlowsky	Stephen Satchel
THORNCLIFFE
48
Between:
LETTER OF INTENT #8
National Automobile Aerospace, Transportation and General Workers Union of Canada (CAW - Canada), Local 385
- and -
Coca-Cola Refreshments Canada Company (Thorncliffe Plant)
Re:	Spares Lists
There shall be two Spares Lists: Cooler Shop and FSV. Initially, employees will be permitted to sign both lists. However, once the signing period is closed and employees have full knowledge of their seniority status on both lists, they must then select a single list on which they would like to be a member. It is to be expressly understood that all Spares Lists will be for eight (8) hour shifts only unless otherwise indicated by the Company. However, if an employee’s regular shift is a ten (10) hour shift, the Company will endeavour to find meaningful work within the department to provide the employee with an additional two (2) hours of work. The decision as to whether or not additional work is available rests solely with the Company.
Despite the above, the Company will only provide training for the FSV Spares List. In the case of the Cooler Shop Spares Lists, an employee will not be permitted to be a member of that list unless he/she is fully qualified to perform the required work.
Both Spares Lists will be posted by March 1st and September 1st of each year for a period of five (5) working days. Following the completion of this five-day period, the lists will be removed and the employees will be ranked by seniority as described above. The results of the ranking will then be re-posted and the Company will grant five (5) additional working days for the employees to review the results and bring to the attention of management the list they would like to be on, or any discrepancies they may have with the listings. After the final review period, the Spares Lists will remain in place for a period of six (6) months (October 1st to March 31st; April 1st until September 30th).
For purposes of determining a list of spares for FSV, the Company shall post a list sufficient to meet the needs of the business. Only Distribution Department employees shall be eligible to sign up for FSV. Employees accepting such positions shall not refuse assignment to FSV when there is no junior spare available.
While the intent of this letter is to provide employees with a means of expressing personal preference to which Spares List they wish to be assigned, it is understood and agreed that it shall remain the sole responsibility of the Company to determine the number of experienced personnel required on any Spare List.
between departments	if there are	operational requirements in	the employee’s posted
department. FOR THE UNION [signed]	[signed]	FOR MANAGEMENT [signed]	[signed]
Terry Fernandes	Shane Thurston	Jose Alonso	Allan Cassidy
[signed]	[signed]	[signed]	[signed]
Mike Reuter	Derrick Stairs	Mike McGarragle	Darryl Serafini
[signed]	[signed]	[signed]	[signed]
Sheldon Pickett	Bob Melnyk	Jasmyn Kozlowsky	Stephen Satchel
THORNCLIFFE
49
Between:
LETTER OF INTENT #9
National Automobile Aerospace, Transportation and General Workers Union of Canada (CAW - Canada), Local 385
- and -
Coca-Cola Refreshments Canada Company (Thorncliffe Plant)
Re:	Occupational Health and Safety Act and Regulations
During negotiations the Union raised with the Company it s concern regarding possible future changes to the Occupational Health and Safety Act and regulations.
The Parties understand that should changes to the legislation and/or the Ontario Ministry of Labour’s support for the subject legislation change to render inoperative the current rights of employees with respect to unsafe work, a mechanism will have to be determined to maintain the practical application of these rights.
Consequently, upon such time as the Union or the Company has a reasonable concern that such legislation could be passed which so affects the employees right to refuse unsafe work, the Union and the Company shall meet within 10 days’ notice of a written request to meet. The Parties will make a good faith effort to arrive at a fair and workable solution to the problem in a forthright and expeditious manner.
It is agreed that any changes to the Regulations would also be reviewed by the Parties in order to assess the impact on employee health and safety. The Parties agree that the statutory provisions in effect as of June 1, 1995 with respect to the employees’ right to refuse unsafe work would be considered a minimum standard.
FOR THE UNION	FOR MANAGEMENT
[signed]	[signed]	[signed]	[signed]
Terry Fernandes	Shane Thurston	Jose Alonso	Allan Cassidy
[signed]	[signed]	[signed]	[signed]
Mike Reuter	Derrick Stairs	Mike McGarragle	Darryl Serafini
[signed]	[signed]	[signed]	[signed]
Sheldon Pickett	Bob Melnyk	Jasmyn Kozlowsky	Stephen Satchel
THORNCLIFFE
50
Between:
LETTER OF INTENT #10
National Automobile Aerospace, Transportation and General Workers Union of Canada (CAW - Canada), Local 385
- and -
Coca-Cola Refreshments Canada Company (Thorncliffe Plant)
Re:	Four Day Ten Hour Work Periods (Original Letter of Agreement Dated February 25, 1997)
The Parties recognize that if they implement a four day ten hour work period in Distribution,
Warehousing and Full Service Vending, there are several inequities which may be created.
Whereas the Parties are desirous of resolving such inequities, notwithstanding any of the provisions
of the Collective Agreement which may be to the contrary, they hereby agree to the following:
1)	Employees who commence the week on a four day ten hour shift or a five day eight hour shift, shall remain on their respective 4x10 or 5x8 schedules for the duration of the week (i.e. bumps may happen from 4x10 to 5x8 and vice versa subject to seniority and qualifications).
2)	In the event a seniority employee is unable to obtain 40 hours of work in a week because of a layoff to the street, he/she will be offered any available shift in that week provided they can satisfactorily fulfil the normal requirements of the job, up to and including Saturday at straight time plus applicable premiums. The intent of this provision is to ensure that senior employees are scheduled for forty hours in a week ahead of junior employees.
3)	Every effort will be made to provide employees who may be subject to a layoff during the week and who are exercising their seniority as per points 1 and 2 above, with consecutive days of work in a week. If this point 3 proves to be unworkable, the Parties will meet and make every effort to resolve any concerns with respect to employees working on consecutive days.
4)	Employees will have the option of displacing temporary or less senior employees in accordance with points 2 and 3 above. Employees who wish to do so, must sign a list at the time of their layoff, which will be posted weekly in each location.
5)	It is further agreed that no provision of the Collective Agreement is to be amended or interpreted by the terms of this letter of agreement, except as provided herein.
6)	The Parties agree that they will review the terms of this letter should there arise any inequities which have not been contemplated. Both Parties commit that in this event they shall make every effort to modify the terms of this letter of agreement, but that this agreement shall survive until the end of the current Collective Agreement if there is no agreement to make any modification hereof.
7)	Article 7 of the Collective Agreement will apply to this letter.
FOR THE UNION	FOR MANAGEMENT
[signed]	[signed]	[signed]	[signed]
Terry Fernandes	Shane Thurston	Jose Alonso	Allan Cassidy
[signed]	[signed]	[signed]	[signed]
Mike Reuter	Derrick Stairs	Mike McGarragle	Darryl Serafini
[signed]	[signed]	[signed]	[signed]
Sheldon Pickett	Bob Melnyk	Jasmyn Kozlowsky	Stephen Satchel
THORNCLIFFE
51
Between:
LETTER OF INTENT #11
National Automobile Aerospace, Transportation and General Workers Union of Canada (CAW - Canada), Local 385
- and -
Coca-Cola Refreshments Canada Company (Thorncliffe Plant) Re:	Previous Commitments Renewed
a) From a Letter Dated July 19, 1996:
We are prepared to allow qualified and trained bargaining unit members who are in the warehouse the opportunity to go out on the trucks on a day-to-day basis, prior to the use of temporary workers, when such opportunities are known in advance.
Employees will submit written application (the application will be effective for six months) in March and September each year, stating their interest in performing Delivery Driver work.
Employees shall be given forty-eight (48) hours notice before any shift and or department change.
If an employee refuses assignment on the day of the request, then the employee will not be considered for any other opportunity for the remainder of the application period.
Once an employee accepts the assignment, the employee shall not be permitted to refuse the work.
Nothing in this letter prohibits the Company from using temporary workers as drivers when advance notice was not possible.
FOR THE UNION	FOR MANAGEMENT
[signed]	[signed]	[signed]	[signed]
Terry Fernandes	Shane Thurston	Jose Alonso	Allan Cassidy
[signed]	[signed]	[signed]	[signed]
Mike Reuter	Derrick Stairs	Mike McGarragle	Darryl Serafim
[signed]	[signed]	[signed]	[signed]
Sheldon Pickett	Bob Melnyk	Jasmyn Kozlowsky	Stephen Satchel
THORNCLIFFE
52
Between:
LETTER OF AGREEMENT #12
National Automobile Aerospace, Transportation and General Workers Union of Canada (CAW - Canada), Local 385
- and -
Coca-Cola Refreshments Canada Company (Thorncliffe Plant)
Re:	Memorandum of Settlement January 16, 1998Re: Early Retirement
The Parties agree that the following Memorandum survives the expiry of the 1995-1998 Collective Agreement, where applicable.
FOR THE UNION
[signed]	[signed]
Terry Fernandes	Shane Thurston
[signed]	[signed]
Mike Reuter	Derrick Stairs
[signed]	[signed]
Sheldon Pickett	Bob Melnyk
FOR MANAGEMENT
[signed]	[signed]
Jose Alonso	Allan Cassidy
[signed]	[signed]
Mike McGarragle	Darryl Serafini
[signed]	[signed]
Jasmyn Kozlowsky	Stephen Satchel
THORNCLIFFE
53
Memorandum of settlement
BETWEEN:
COCA-COLA BOTTLING LTD. (Toronto) hereinafter referred to as the “Company
AND:
NATIONAL AUTOMOBILE, AEROSPACE, TRANSPORTATION AND GENERAL WORKERS UNION OF CANADA (CAW-CANADA) hereinafter referred to as the “Union”
WHEREAS The Company has announced the closure of its Turnberry facility and the movement of certain work from its Turnberry and Thorncliffe locations to other locations within the Company and the resultant impact on employees in connection therewith;
AND WHEREAS The Company has supplied to its employees various
documents dealing with available options including but, not limited to, Voluntary Severance, Voluntary enhanced Early Retirement Pensions and, etc.
AND WHEREAS The provisions contained herein, as agreed to between the Parties, amend the aforementioned documents
AND WHEREAS the parties are desirous of resolving all outstanding issues relating to these Business changes;
THEREFORE the parties agree as follows:
1.	TO AMEND the Collective Agreement between the Parties to provide that Article 8.04 (b), with regard to broken service and Article 8.09 (e) with regard to seniority, be amended so as to allow all seniority employees, as at January 13, 1998, a period of thirty-six (36) months recall eligibility.
2.	To Provide that employees who transfer to a new work location may return to work at a C.C.B. C.A.W. facility to a regular full-time vacancy in accordance with the Collective Agreement. This option shall be available to an employee for a period of twelve (12) months extending from February 23, 1998. Such vacancy shall be filled in accordance with his C.A.W. seniority and, upon returning to the bargaining unit, his seniority, at date of leaving shall be restored. This opportunity shall be made available on a one-time basis only and the employee will not be permitted to transfer back after that option to return has been elected. All service with Coca-Cola Bottling will be recognized for purposes of vacations and pensions
THORNCLIFFE
54
3.	TO AMEND the Voluntary Severance provision to provide a lump sum
severance amount, as follows: Maximum 25 employees -
Max $500,000 total
-5yrs of seniority or less $20,000
-10 yrs of seniority or less $30,000
-20 yrs of seniority or less $40,000
The above amounts are inclusive of Statutory Requirements. The Company agrees to work with the Union in such a way as to legally minimize the impact on employees' El.
4.	THE PARTIES AGREE to a process and sequence for the assignment of employees to jobs, shifts and locations as a result of the announced business changes, as follows:
GENERAL CONDITIONS
(a)	All job vacancies in all locations and all jobs in C.A.W. facilities on all shifts, (including newly created garage mechanic vacancies) shall be displayed simultaneously by the Company on February 17, 1998. Voluntary Severance options shall be included on this display.
(b)	Notwithstanding any provisions of the Collective Agreement which may be in conflict, it is agreed no grievances shall be brought forward as a result of this process
(c)	Employees shall fill jobs in accordance with their seniority standing subject to the Collective Agreement.
JOB SELECTIONS
(a)	Commencing Feb 17, 1998, employees will be called, in order of seniority, into a meeting with a Company official where they will make their choice by seniority from the options available to them and the positions which are available. A union representative will be present at such meetings. Subject to paragraph (e) below, such selection is final and binding on the employee. A Company and a union representative will sign a form indicating the selection made. Absentee employees will be canvassed by telephone by the parties.
(b)	Using the above process, all such selections will be completed and posted no later than February 21, 1998 and all job movement will be effective on February 23, 1998.
(c)	Employees who select to remain at C.A.W. facilities will have no further rights to the Early Retirement or Voluntary Severance packages as proposed in this document.
(d)	Employees who select the Voluntary Severance packages will lose all seniority and have no further rights as employees,
THORNCLIFFE
55
(e)	Employees who select a transfer under Article 18.01 may return to the C.A.W. 385 bargaining unit on a “one-time" option at any time before January 31,
1999 to a regular full-time vacancy. If an employee chooses such return option, he will be credited with his unbroken CAW seniority and will cease to have any rights to employment at any other Company facility. None of the above options will be recreated for any other employee as a consequence of any employee returning to The C.A.W. bargaining unit under this provision.
(f)	The Company shall make available to the employees a summary of working conditions at external locations as well as the opportunity to consult with a management representative at that external locations
5.	THE PARTIES AGREE to replace the previously issued timetable with the following:
-	The “Job Fair" shall be adjourned sine die
-	February 17, 1998 - 4(a), herein, shall commence
-	February 21,1998 - 4(a), herein, is completed
-	February 23, 1998 all job assignments commence
6.	CONDITIONS OF EMPLOYMENT AT EXTERNAL LOCATIONS
-	The Company will recognize full Coca-Cola service for purposes of vacation entitlements and pension
-	Any employee who has acquired seniority status in a C.A.W. location shall be deemed to have completed their probationary period at new work location.
-	The Company will provide a continuity of benefit coverage for employees transferring to a new work location.
-	Employees who are laid off from a C.A.W. facility within the 3 month period commencing February 23, 1998 shall have benefit coverage for a 3 month period,
-	The Company will explore the opportunities for Seniority recognition at external locations to which employees transfer, in accordance with the provisions of the Collective Agreements at those locations.
7.	WITH REGARD TO THE CURRENT THORNCLIFFE SITE, the Company is prepared to provide the following letter:
“This letter confirms The Company’s intent to invest and grow at the Thorncliffe production and distribution facilities. As outlined in our January 13, 1998 announcement, Thorncliffe will be a production centre and home for our Toronto side pocket, (including F.S.V.), distribution business, as well, the direct delivery for our large food service customers. The Company will invest $4.7 million to improve the facility and production equipment starting with the small bottle P.E.T. line.
In addition to the facility upgrades at Thorncliffe, we will end our relationship with Rentway. We will purchase back the trucks, then begin to replace the entire side-pocket fleet over the next 12 months. We will be placing 8,400 pieces of
THORNCLIFFE
56
cooling equipment across the Metro Toronto sales centres in 1998. Finally, we will be investing in the first year, approximately $300,000 to establish a leased Cooler Service Department separate from the current company’s facilities.'’
“Our volume growth targets and the investment described above are indictors of our commitment to the business at the C.A.W. facilities.”
8.	THE COMPANY AGREES that the new cooler shop leased location, which will occur, as a direct result of the Turnberry closure, will be a C.A.W. certified facility.
9.	The COMPANY AGREES to extend the Education Allowance to employees who are laid off as a result of these business changes at C.A.W. facilities and those who re-locate to a new work assignment for purposes of qualifying for a job at the location, provided that the qualifying period is consistent with the Company’s needs to fill that job vacancy. The Conditions with respect to this allowance shall be the same as those provided to a retiree of the enhanced early retirement program. The education allowance is $3,000.
10.	THE COMPANY ADVISES that its current relationship with the Rentway Company will be terminated and garage services will be re-implemented at Thomcliffe. The number of garage jobs shall be communicated to the Union prior to February 17, 1998.
11.	The Company agrees to provide employment levels at C.A.W. facilities in the warehousing and distribution departments for the period January 19, 1998 to February 20, 1998 which are consistent with average employment levels in the period January 19, 1997 to February 20, 1997. The purpose of this provision is to maintain work for those affected by this decision. The Company will provide required employment levels to the Union by January 20, 1998.
12.	In consideration of the above, the Union hereby agrees that there will be no grievances, applications and legal actions filed in connection with the Turnberry closure and/or the movement of certain work from the Thorncliffe and Turnberry locations to other locations of the Company, the layoffs of employees and the application of the collective agreement relating to these events.
13.	This agreement is subject to the grievance and arbitration provisions of the Collective Agreement.
The Parties agree to unanimously recommend the above terms and conditions as complete and final settlement of all outstanding issues.
DATED AT TORONTO, ONTARIO THIS 16™ DAY OF JANUARY, 1998.
THORNCLIFFE
57
Between:
LETTER OF INTENT #13
National Automobile Aerospace, Transportation and General Workers Union of Canada (CAW - Canada), Local 385
- and -
Coca-Cola Refreshments Canada Company (Thorncliffe Plant)
Re:	Reprisals
The Company agrees there will be no discipline, grievances or reprisals taken against employees or the Union on account of strike or picketing activity up to the time of signing of the Memorandum of Settlement. The Union agrees there will be no grievances filed on account of any work performed by non-bargaining unit employees in advance of the strike or as a consequence of the nonavailability of bargaining unit employees to perform such work at the time and any such grievances which may already have been filed will be withdrawn.
FOR THE UNION	FOR MANAGEMENT
[signed]	[signed]	[signed]	[signed]
Terry Fernandes	Shane Thurston	Jose Alonso	Allan Cassidy
[signed]	[signed]	[signed]	[signed]
Mike Reuter	Derrick Stairs	Mike McGarragle	Darryl Serafini
[signed]	[signed]	[signed]	[signed]
Sheldon Pickett	Bob Melnyk	Jasmyn Kozlowsky	Stephen Satchel
THORNCLIFFE
58
Between:
LETTER OF INTENT #14
National Automobile Aerospace, Transportation and General Workers Union of Canada (CAW - Canada), Local 385
- and -
Coca-Cola Refreshments Canada Company (Thorncliffe Plant)
Re:	Seven (7) Day Operations
In the event that the Thorncliffe facility moves to a seven-day operation, the Company agrees that it will meet with the Union in advance to discuss how to effectively staff weekend shifts. Exceptions to the above shall be communicated to the Union as soon as reasonably practicable in advance, without delay. The Company further agrees that the same employee will not be scheduled for both Saturday and Sunday work.
FOR THE UNION	FOR MANAGEMENT
[signed]	[signed]	[signed]	[signed]
Terry Fernandes	Shane Thurston	Jose Alonso	Allan Cassidy
[signed]	[signed]	[signed]	[signed]
Mike Reuter	Derrick Stairs	Mike McGarragle	Darryl Serafini
[signed]	[signed]	[signed]	[signed]
Sheldon Pickett	Bob Melnyk	Jasmyn Kozlowsky	Stephen Satchel
THORNCLIFFE
59
Between:
LETTER OF INTENT #15
National Automobile Aerospace, Transportation and General Workers Union of Canada (CAW - Canada), Local 385
- and -
Coca-Cola Refreshments Canada Company (Thorncliffe Plant)
Re:	Recall from Layoff (July 30, 2004)
The Company recognizes that it is beneficial to both the Company and the union that workers shall be returned to their original postings whenever layoffs have been necessary. In order to facilitate this process the Company agrees to the following;
i)	The Company will endeavour to return workers to their shift as soon as possible.
ii)	The Company agrees to make every effort to replace needed personnel as soon as possible.
iii)	Once a DSIC has started an assignment in the Warehouse Department, he will be deemed unavailable for re-assignment in the Distribution Department unless there are no other DSIC’s available for assignment to the Distribution Department.
iv)	Should two (2) or more DSIC’s report to work prior to the Warehouse shift commencing, the Company recognizes that they shall assign the junior DSIC to the Warehouse Department and the more senior DSIC shall remain in the Distribution Department.
FOR THE UNION	FOR MANAGEMENT
[signed]	[signed]	[signed]	[signed]
Terry Fernandes	Shane Thurston	Jose Alonso	Allan Cassidy
[signed]	[signed]	[signed]	[signed]
Mike Reuter	Derrick Stairs	Mike McGarragle	Darryl Serafini
[signed]	[signed]	[signed]	[signed]
Sheldon Pickett	Bob Melnyk	Jasmyn Kozlowsky	Stephen Satchel
THORNCLIFFE
60
Between:
LETTER OF INTENT #16
National Automobile Aerospace, Transportation and General Workers Union of Canada (CAW - Canada), Local 385
- and -
Coca-Cola Refreshments Canada Company (Thorncliffe Plant)
Re:	Disability Dispute Resolution Process
The Company and the Union wish to see short and long term disability claims processed in a fair and expedient manner. The following provisions will be implemented upon date of ratification of this agreement.
(A)	Notice of Suspension of Disability Benefits
The insurance carrier will provide an employee on disability with at least two (2) weeks written notice of intention to suspend benefits. The notice will state the intended date of suspension, the reason for suspension, and, if appropriate, any actions the employee may take to maintain benefit continuation. The Union WSIB Committee Person and the Company will receive a copy of the notice.
(B)	Dispute Resolution Process for the Disallowance, Suspension or Review of Claim for Benefits
Where there is a dispute between the employee’s treating physician and the insurance carrier’s medical advisors regarding the employee’s ability to return to work or regarding the payment of benefits, or where the Company would like to have an employee’s claim for benefits independently reviewed, the following procedure shall be applied:
1.	In the case of a dispute between physicians, the Company will first ensure that they have complete information regarding the employee’s job duties. The physicians will then discuss the case by phone to see if their differences of opinion can be reconciled. If further information is required the employee is responsible to ensure adequate medical is received and forms are duly completed.
2.	If the physicians still disagree, or in the case of an independent review requested by the Company, a mutually agreed upon independent physician will be selected to conduct a review of the matter. Preferably, this independent physician will be a board-certified specialist in the field of medicine where the dispute exists. The employee will be referred to the independent physician for examination and impartial recommendation, and the physician will be provided with full details regarding the employee’s status, clinical findings, treatments, etc, as well as complete information regarding the relevant requirements of the employee’s job duties. The impartial recommendation of the physician will be provided to the parties and will be final and binding upon the Company, the Union, the employee and the insurance carrier.
3.	The employee will be given 48 hours advance notice of the scheduled independent examination. If the employee fails to attend the examination as scheduled without a valid reason, benefits will be suspended.
THORNCLIFFE
61
(C) Conditions
During the process as described in Section (B) above, the following conditions shall apply:
1.	If an employee fails to show up for a scheduled examination, a reasonable effort will be made to determine why the employee failed to show up for such examination.
2.	In all cases, the employee will be required to sign an appropriate Release and Disclosure Form authorizing the release of medical information to all relevant parties. All information so released will remain strictly confidential.
3.	The independent physician report (both verbal and written) will include a statement regarding whether or not the employee is "able to work” or not "able to work” from either own occupation and/or any occupation depending upon benefits being sought.
4.	The written notification of results to the employee determined to be "able to work” will include instructions to report to the Company to inform it of his or her status.
(D)	Termination of Disability Benefits
1.	In cases regarding a pending suspension of benefits, the employee shall continue to receive disability benefits during the process outlined in Section (B) above. The benefits shall continue from the date of the intended suspension until the date of final determination.
2.	If it is determined that the employee is capable of returning to work, disability benefits will cease on the day following the IME.
3.	Disability benefits shall continue if it is determined that the employee is unable to return to work.
(E)	Costs of Independent Examination
1.	In all cases where the independent medical examination (IME) is requested by the Company, the costs of the examination will be paid for by the Company.
2.	The Company will also pay the costs for the independent examination when requested by the employee in cases where the initial decision of the insurance carrier was to deny the employee’s entitlement to benefits.
3.	Despite point two (2) above, when the Company has reason to believe that an IME is being, or has been, unreasonably requested, it will raise its concerns and/or objections with the union.
4.	The Company will provide a copy of the employees IME and/or FAE to the employee and to the Union if the employee provides his/her written consent for such disclosure.
FOR THE UNION	FOR MANAGEMENT
[signed]	[signed]	[signed]	[signed]
Terry Fernandes	Shane Thurston	Jose Alonso	Allan Cassidy
[signed]	[signed]	[signed]	[signed]
Mike Reuter	Derrick Stairs	Mike McGarragle	Darryl Serafini
[signed]	[signed]	[signed]	[signed]
Sheldon Pickett	Bob Melnyk	Jasmyn Kozlowsky	Stephen Satchel
THORNCLIFFE
62
Between:
LETTER OF INTENT #17
National Automobile Aerospace, Transportation and General Workers Union of Canada (CAW - Canada), Local 385
- and -
Coca-Cola Refreshments Canada Company (Thorncliffe Plant)
Re:	Retiree Benefits
Employees who retire from the active service of the Company and receive a Pension Benefit from the Company’s Pension Plan shall continue to be eligible to have access to the Company’s health and welfare benefits plan for retirees.
FOR THE UNION	FOR MANAGEMENT
[signed]	[signed]	[signed]	[signed]
Terry Fernandes	Shane Thurston	Jose Alonso	Allan Cassidy
[signed]	[signed]	[signed]	[signed]
Mike Reuter	Derrick Stairs	Mike McGarragle	Darryl Serafim
[signed]	[signed]	[signed]	[signed]
Sheldon Pickett	Bob Melnyk	Jasmyn Kozlowsky	Stephen Satchel
THORNCLIFFE
63
Between:
LETTER OF INTENT #18
National Automobile Aerospace, Transportation and General Workers Union of Canada (CAW - Canada), Local 385
- and -
Coca-Cola Refreshments Canada Company (Thorncliffe Plant)
Re:	Calendar Year Vacation
During negotiations leading to the renewal of the 2001 collective agreement, the parties expressed a mutual interest in pursuing a change to the current vacation system.
However, certain procedural issues were raised that could not be completed during negotiations. As a result, the parties agree to meet during the life of the collective agreement to continue discussions on this issue. Pending satisfactory resolution to all of the procedural issues and other outstanding concerns on this issue, a new calendar year vacation system will be implemented as soon as reasonably practicable thereafter, upon the mutual consent of the parties.
FOR THE UNION	FOR MANAGEMENT
[signed]	[signed]	[signed]	[signed]
Terry Fernandes	Shane Thurston	Jose Alonso	Allan Cassidy
[signed]	[signed]	[signed]	[signed]
Mike Reuter	Derrick Stairs	Mike McGarragle	Darryl Serafini
[signed]	[signed]	[signed]	[signed]
Sheldon Pickett	Bob Melnyk	Jasmyn Kozlowsky	Stephen Satchel
THORNCLIFFE
64
Between:
LETTER OF INTENT #19
National Automobile Aerospace, Transportation and General Workers Union of Canada (CAW - Canada), Local 385
- and -
Coca-Cola Refreshments Canada Company (Thorncliffe Plant)
Re:	Union Office
If at some point during the currency of this Collective Agreement, the Company wishes to relocate the Union’s office to a different location within the Thorncliffe facility, it will ensure that such new location will be approximately the same square footage with the same amount of storage/filing capacity as the current office.
FOR THE UNION	FOR MANAGEMENT
[signed]	[signed]	[signed]	[signed]
Terry Fernandes	Shane Thurston	Jose Alonso	Allan Cassidy
[signed]	[signed]	[signed]	[signed]
Mike Reuter	Derrick Stairs	Mike McGarragle	Darryl Serafim
[signed]	[signed]	[signed]	[signed]
Sheldon Pickett	Bob Melnyk	Jasmyn Kozlowsky	Stephen Satchel
THORNCLIFFE
65
Between:
LETTER OF AGREEMENT #20
National Automobile Aerospace, Transportation and General Workers Union of Canada (CAW - Canada), Local 385
- and -
Coca-Cola Refreshments Canada Company (Thorncliffe Plant) Re:	Work Performed at Thorncliffe
During the 2004 negotiations, the parties held extensive discussions on the future of the work performed at the Thorncliffe facility. The Company held the position that there are no plans at the time of these negotiations, to move or close the facility during the life of the agreement. However, to recognize the major concerns raised by the Union on the issue if the Company, for any reason, moves major parts of or the entire facility to a new or existing facility within 100 miles of Thorncliffe, the Company agrees that a number of seniority employees, equal to the number who performed the moved work at Thorncliffe immediately prior to the move, would have the option of relocating to the existing or new facility.
If an employee relocates to a facility with a rate of pay that is lower than their regular posted rate in Thorncliffe, the employee will be "red-circled” at their regular Thorncliffe posted rate.
It is understood that the employee’s Pension and Benefits would also be "red-circled”.
FOR THE UNION	FOR MANAGEMENT
[signed]	[signed]	[signed]	[signed]
Terry Fernandes	Shane Thurston	Jose Alonso	Allan Cassidy
[signed]	[signed]	[signed]	[signed]
Mike Reuter	Derrick Stairs	Mike McGarragle	Darryl Serafini
[signed]	[signed]	[signed]	[signed]
Sheldon Pickett	Bob Melnyk	Jasmyn Kozlowsky	Stephen Satchel
THORNCLIFFE
66
Between:
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #21
National Automobile Aerospace, Transportation and General Workers Union of Canada (CAW - Canada), Local 385
- and -
Coca-Cola Refreshments Canada Company (Thorncliffe Plant)
Re:	Benefit Carrier Issues
Concerns regarding the proper adjudication of employees’ claims will be addressed on an as needed basis through the Company’s Benefits/HR representatives.
FOR THE UNION
[signed]	[signed]
Terry Fernandes	Shane Thurston
[signed]	[signed]
Mike Reuter	Derrick Stairs
[signed]	[signed]
Sheldon Pickett	Bob Melnyk
FOR MANAGEMENT
[signed]	[signed]
Jose Alonso	Allan Cassidy
[signed]	[signed]
Mike McGarragle	Darryl Serafim
[signed]	[signed]
Jasmyn Kozlowsky	Stephen Satchel
THORNCLIFFE
67
Between:
LETTER OF AGREEMENT #22
National Automobile Aerospace, Transportation and General Workers Union of Canada (CAW - Canada), Local 385
- and -
Coca-Cola Refreshments Canada Company (Thorncliffe Plant)
Re:	Benefit Booklets
Once Benefit Booklets are made available, employees may request to receive an updated benefits booklet from Human Resources.
FOR THE UNION	FOR MANAGEMENT
[signed]	[signed]	[signed]	[signed]
Terry Fernandes	Shane Thurston	Jose Alonso	Allan Cassidy
[signed]	[signed]	[signed]	[signed]
Mike Reuter	Derrick Stairs	Mike McGarragle	Darryl Serafini
[signed]	[signed]	[signed]	[signed]
Sheldon Pickett	Bob Melnyk	Jasmyn Kozlowsky	Stephen Satchel
THORNCLIFFE
68
Between:
LETTER OF AGREEMENT #23
National Automobile Aerospace, Transportation and General Workers Union of Canada (CAW - Canada), Local 385
- and -
Coca-Cola Refreshments Canada Company (Thorncliffe Plant)
Re:	Vacation Pay Calculations
On an annual basis, an employee may request from Human Resources a statement showing how his/her vacation pay was calculated in the previous year. Such request must be submitted in the month prior to the employee’s anniversary date, and the statement will be provided to the employee no later than thirty (30) days following the employee’s anniversary date.
FOR THE UNION	FOR MANAGEMENT
[signed]	[signed]	[signed]	[signed]
Terry Fernandes	Shane Thurston	Jose Alonso	Allan Cassidy
[signed]	[signed]	[signed]	[signed]
Mike Reuter	Derrick Stairs	Mike McGarragle	Darryl Serafim
[signed]	[signed]	[signed]	[signed]
Sheldon Pickett	Bob Melnyk	Jasmyn Kozlowsky	Stephen Satchel
THORNCLIFFE
69
Between:
LETTER OF AGREEMENT #24
National Automobile Aerospace, Transportation and General Workers Union of Canada (CAW - Canada), Local 385
- and -
Coca-Cola Refreshments Canada Company (Thorncliffe Plant)
Re:	Union Elections
The Company agrees to allow the Union to use the Thorncliffe training room, formerly the cafeteria, for a twenty-four (24) hour period, once every three (3) years, for the purpose of conducting Local Union elections. It is understood that the voting will occur outside of regular shift hours so as to not to disrupt the normal operations of the Company.
The Union will provide the Company with sufficient advance notice of its intention to conduct the elections, at which time a date will be selected and acceptable arrangements will be made.
FOR THE UNION	FOR MANAGEMENT
[signed]	[signed]	[signed]	[signed]
Terry Fernandes	Shane Thurston	Jose Alonso	Allan Cassidy
[signed]	[signed]	[signed]	[signed]
Mike Reuter	Derrick Stairs	Mike McGarragle	Darryl Serafini
[signed]	[signed]	[signed]	[signed]
Sheldon Pickett	Bob Melnyk	Jasmyn Kozlowsky	Stephen Satchel
THORNCLIFFE
70
Between:
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #25
National Automobile Aerospace, Transportation and General Workers Union of Canada (CAW - Canada), Local 385
- and -
Coca-Cola Refreshments Canada Company (Thorncliffe Plant)
Re:	Sales Equipment Service Technicians and Trainees
Notwithstanding any of the provisions of this Agreement which may be to the contrary, it is mutually
understood and agreed that the following arrangements and conditions shall apply to the positions
of Sales Equipment Serviceperson ("Service Technician”) and Sales Equipment Service Trainee
("Trainee”).
1.	Candidates for a posted job vacancy as a Trainee or Service Technician shall:
(a)	successfully complete appropriate aptitude tests prior to appointment; and
(b)	be prepared to undertake and successfully complete a prescribed course of company sponsored training; and
(c)	hold a valid, appropriate driver’s license.
2.	The successful candidate for a posted vacancy in the position of Service Trainee or Service Technician will be appointed to that position on the condition that the employee undertakes such training as the Company may require.
3.	Failure to maintain a satisfactory degree of progress, or failure to successfully complete the training program, shall lead to the demotion of a Sales Equipment Service Trainee. In such event the employee shall revert to his/her former position and in doing so may displace the employee who succeeded him/her in that position.
4.	A Sales Equipment Service Trainee may, within three (3) months of appointment to such position, elect to revert to his/her previous job and, in so doing, may displace the employee who succeeded him/her in such job. Additionally, the Sales Equipment Service Trainee may only be displaced from the Sales Equipment Service Trainee position, pursuant to the seniority provisions of this Collective Agreement, if the person exercising his/her seniority is immediately qualified to perform the work of a Service Technician.
5.	The training program referred to herein currently consists of various training sessions organized by the Company and/or equipment suppliers and on-the-job training, and must complete a minimum of 2000 hours of training (the requirements of the Training Matrix). Trainees will be elevated to the Service Technician position once they have successfully completed the training program and the technician written test. Once reclassified, he/she shall be paid the Service T echnician rate. He/she must remain in the position of Service Technician for a minimum period of one (1) year after being reclassified unless the Company agrees otherwise.
6.	In the event that the Company has no employee:
a) who meets the requirements for a vacancy as Sales Equipment Service Trainee; or
b) who meets the requirements for a vacancy as a Sales Equipment Serviceperson;
THORNCLIFFE
71
then the Company may hire a new employee who does possess the necessary qualifications to satisfactorily fulfill the requirements of the vacant position.
FOR THE UNION
[signed]	[signed]
Terry Fernandes	Shane Thurston
[signed]	[signed]
Mike Reuter	Derrick Stairs
[signed]	[signed]
Sheldon Pickett	Bob Melnyk
FOR MANAGEMENT
[signed]	[signed]
Jose Alonso	Allan Cassidy
[signed]	[signed]
Mike McGarragle	Darryl Serafim
[signed]	[signed]
Jasmyn Kozlowsky	Stephen Satchel
THORNCLIFFE
72
Between:
LETTER OF AGREEMENT #26
National Automobile Aerospace, Transportation and General Workers Union of Canada (CAW - Canada), Local 385
- and -
Coca-Cola Refreshments Canada Company (Thorncliffe Plant)
Re:	Service Department
It is understood and agreed that employees in the sales equipment service department will carry enough inventory and cash to do initial set-ups for vending and fountain, when such equipment is delivered and installed by them. Employees in the sales equipment service department will carry one (1) CO2 cylinder for emergency use and one (1) CO2 cylinder for each fountain set-up. When employees in the sales equipment service department perform a close-out on equipment they shall also remove any product or cash still in that equipment.
All Cooler Delivery employees performing delivery duties will receive a forty-eight cent ($0.48) hourly premium while the first fills program is in effect.
FOR THE UNION	FOR MANAGEMENT
[signed]	[signed]	[signed]	[signed]
Terry Fernandes	Shane Thurston	Jose Alonso	Allan Cassidy
[signed]	[signed]	[signed]	[signed]
Mike Reuter	Derrick Stairs	Mike McGarragle	Darryl Serafini
[signed]	[signed]	[signed]	[signed]
Sheldon Pickett	Bob Melnyk	Jasmyn Kozlowsky	Stephen Satchel
THORNCLIFFE
73
Between:
LETTER OF AGREEMENT #27
National Automobile Aerospace, Transportation and General Workers Union of Canada (CAW - Canada), Local 385
- and -
Coca-Cola Refreshments Canada Company (Thorncliffe Plant)
Re:	Workplace Accommodations
The following is intended to fulfill the parties’ obligation to make reasonable accommodation for both permanently and temporarily impaired employees due to illness or injury.
This accommodation process shall consider many variables such as hours of work, duties assigned and shift assigned.
Employees with Permanent Medical Restrictions
The Company and the Union agree there is a need to maintain a dialogue between the Union, the Company and permanently impaired employees. In support of this objective, the Company and Union agree to maintain a Placement Committee to meet as necessary for the purpose of discussing and reviewing opportunities for permanently impaired employees to perform suitable and meaningful work. The Placement Committee will be comprised of the Union’s RTW representative and two other representatives. Such Union representatives will have no loss of pay for time spent meeting with the management representatives of the Placement Committee. In addition to the Union representatives, the Placement Committee will be comprised of a Company’s RTW representative and two other representatives. The Placement Committee will meet four (4) times per calendar year.
In order to facilitate this process, the employee shall be required to sign an appropriate release and disclosure form directed to the "Placement Committee” and must submit all relevant medical information to the Company. All information released shall be considered confidential. The details of the accommodation shall be discussed with the employee.
Employees with permanent medical restrictions will have their situation reviewed by the Placement Committee for an opportunity to perform meaningful work that meets their medical restrictions.
At the meeting, the Placement Committee will review the following information:
•	seniority;
•	relevant medical reports pertaining to the impairment;
•	permanent restrictions information from the WSIB/or specialist;
•	the physical demands of the employee’s current posted position and essential functions of that position; and
•	the physical demands of other potential positions and their essential functions to determine whether they are within the scope of the employee’s capabilities.
It is understood that in order to facilitate this process, the employee shall be required to sign an appropriate release and disclosure form directed to the Placement Committee. The Placement Committee shall review the above information and shall write recommendations based on the above information in order to assist the employee in returning to suitable and meaningful employment.
THORNCLIFFE
74
The committee shall submit their findings to the Company and the Union for review and response in a timely manner.
Process
1.	In the event that an employee is unable to perform the essential functions of his/her preinjury job even with accommodations, the Company and the Placement Committee shall investigate and pursue accommodations elsewhere in the employee’s home department and, failing that, in other departments where suitable and meaningful work is available. All exceptions to the seniority provisions of the collective agreement must be mutually agreed to by the parties.
2.	Administration of the foregoing paragraph shall mean that the following procedure will be observed:
i)	An employee who can not be accommodated within his or her own pre-injury job and function can displace an employee, with less seniority, within their shift and function in his/her department, provided such job meets the employee’s medical restrictions and capabilities.
ii)	If the employee was unable to be accommodated in accordance with (i) above, then he/she may displace an employee, with less seniority, within their shift and all departments, provided such job meets the employee’s medical restrictions and capabilities.
iii)	If the employee was unable to be accommodated in accordance with (i) or (ii) above, then he/she may displace an employee, with less seniority, within any shift and all departments, provided such job meets the employee’s medical restrictions and capabilities.
iv)	In consideration of the aforementioned, if the employee was unable to be accommodated he/she may put forth an application to WSIB or Insurance Agent for benefits.
v)	Any displaced employee in (i), (ii) or (iii) will bump in accordance with Article 8.11.
3.	In the event of a dispute regarding the suitability of work for the employee as a result of their restrictions, an Independent Medical Examination (IME) and/or Functional Abilities Evaluation (FAE) shall be acknowledged as the appropriate mechanism to resolve the dispute.
Understandings
In the event of a dispute regarding the suitability of work for the employee as a result of his/her restrictions, an Independent Medical Examination (IME), Functional Abilities Evaluation (FAE), medical information submitted to the WSIB from a specialist at either the employee’s or the Company’s request, or a letter from the WSIB received by the Company or the employee, shall confirm what constitutes a permanent impairment. This understanding shall not in any way be used to prejudice or otherwise influence the WSIB’s determination or payment of benefits.
Where a permanent impairment with a WSIB claim is in dispute, the Company and the Union shall continue their efforts to accommodate the employee, pending a final decision from the WSIB (which may include additional information further clarifying the employee’s permanent impairment).
THORNCLIFFE
75
For non-work related illness or injury, the Company will consider medical information provided by a specialist, an IME or an FAE. Where a dispute exists, the Company and Union shall continue their efforts to accommodate the employee, pending a final decision from the insurance provider on the payment of benefits.
Employees with Temporary Medical Restrictions
Modified work is defined as any job or combination of tasks that an employee may perform on a temporary basis without risk of re-injury. This work may consist of the regular tasks of the pre-injury job or specific tasks designated for employees participating in a modified work plan. The work must be productive and the results must have value to the Company. The following guidelines will be adhered to:
1.	The program will ensure that there is a consistent standard for all employees (occupational or non-occupational).
2.	The employee must submit all relevant medical information pertaining to the injury to the Company. It is understood that in order to facilitate this process, the employee shall be required to sign an appropriate release and disclosure form.
3.	The temporary modified work plan will be individualized to meet the needs of both the temporarily impaired employee and the Company.
4.	Where required, the Union RTW Representative and the Company RTW Representative (or designates) will review all the temporary modified work plans that exceed fifteen (15) working days. In the event of a dispute regarding the suitability of work determined for the employee as a result of their restrictions, the matter will be referred to the Placement Committee.
5.	This process will not be used to circumvent the process for employees with permanent medical restrictions as outlined above.
6.	Temporary modified work will not be extended indefinitely and a specific duration shall be
determined in each case. If an accommodation concern arises that cannot be resolved by the Placement Committee, the Company may require the employee to attend an IME and/or an FAE.
7.	The Company will provide a copy of the employees IME and or FAE to the employee and to the Union if the employee provides his/her written consent for such disclosure
FOR THE UNION	FOR MANAGEMENT
[signed]	[signed]	[signed]	[signed]
Terry Fernandes	Shane Thurston	Jose Alonso	Allan Cassidy
[signed]	[signed]	[signed]	[signed]
Mike Reuter	Derrick Stairs	Mike McGarragle	Darryl Serafini
[signed]	[signed]	[signed]	[signed]
Sheldon Pickett	Bob Melnyk	Jasmyn Kozlowsky	Stephen Satchel
THORNCLIFFE
76
Between:
LETTER OF AGREEMENT #28
National Automobile Aerospace, Transportation and General Workers Union of Canada (CAW - Canada), Local 385
- and -
Coca-Cola Refreshments Canada Company (Thorncliffe Plant)
Re:	Holidays
Holidays as per Article 11 will be observed during the term of this Collective Agreement as follows. The following schedule of Observed Holidays shall apply for this agreement:
It is also agreed that the current holiday scheduling practice that exists in the Warehouse will continue to be observed.
2010
New Years Day
Day After New Years Day (regularly scheduled M-F)
Family Day Good Friday Victoria Day Canada Day
Civic Holiday	Mon Aug 2	Mon Aug 1
Labour Day	Mon Sep 6	Mon Sep 5
Thanksgiving	Mon Oct 11	Mon Oct 10
Christmas Eve Day	Fri Dec 24	Mon Dec 26
Christmas Day	Mon Dec 27	Tues Dec 27
Boxing Day (regularly scheduled M-F)	Tues Dec 28	Wed Dec 28
New Years Eve Day	Fri Dec 31	Mon Jan 2
2011	2012	2013
Mon Jan 3	Tues Jan 3	Tues Jan 1
Tues Jan 4	Wed Jan 4	Wed Jan 2
Mon Feb 21	Mon Feb 20	Mon Feb 18
Fri Apr 22	Fri Apr 6	Fri Mar 29
Mon May 23	Mon May 21	Mon May 20
Fri Jul 1	Mon Jul 2	Mon Jul 1
Mon Aug 6
Mon Sep 3
Mon Oct 8
Mon Dec 24
Tues Dec 25
Wed Dec 26
Mon Dec 31
FOR THE UNION	FOR MANAGEMENT
[signed]	[signed]	[signed]	[signed]
Terry Fernandes	Shane Thurston	Jose Alonso	Allan Cassidy
[signed]	[signed]	[signed]	[signed]
Mike Reuter	Derrick Stairs	Mike McGarragle	Darryl Serafini
[signed]	[signed]	[signed]	[signed]
Sheldon Pickett	Bob Melnyk	Jasmyn Kozlowsky	Stephen Satchel
THORNCLIFFE
77
Between:
LETTER OF AGREEMENT #29
National Automobile Aerospace, Transportation and General Workers Union of Canada (CAW - Canada), Local 385
- and -
Coca-Cola Refreshments Canada Company (Thorncliffe Plant)
To: All Thorncliffe Supervisors, Managers and Employees Re:	Harassment and Discrimination in the Workplace.
Every employee, supervisor and manager has the right to work in an environment free from harassment and discrimination. The right includes the responsibility on the part of all employees to eliminate harassment and discrimination in our workplace, whether by employees, suppliers, contractors or management.
There is no acceptable level of harassment at Coca-Cola Refreshments Canada Company. Harassment, discrimination, whether verbal, physical or environmental is unacceptable, will not be tolerated and may warrant discipline up to and including discharge.
The Company and union policies regarding harassment and discrimination in the workplace have been posted within the facility and have been communicated to all employees in writing.
The Coca-Cola Refreshments Canada Company, CAW Local 385, and CAW National Office are committed to providing a harassment and discrimination free workplace.
FOR THE UNION	FOR MANAGEMENT
[signed]	[signed]	[signed]	[signed]
Terry Fernandes	Shane Thurston	Jose Alonso	Allan Cassidy
[signed]	[signed]	[signed]	[signed]
Mike Reuter	Derrick Stairs	Mike McGarragle	Darryl Serafini
[signed]	[signed]	[signed]	[signed]
Sheldon Pickett	Bob Melnyk	Jasmyn Kozlowsky	Stephen Satchel
THORNCLIFFE
78
Between:
LETTER OF AGREEMENT #30
National Automobile Aerospace, Transportation and General Workers Union of Canada (CAW - Canada), Local 385
- and -
Coca-Cola Refreshments Canada Company (Thorncliffe Plant)
Re:	Human Rights Representative
The Company will recognize a Human Rights Representative for the Thorncliffe Facility. The Union will advise the Company of the name of the representative. The Human Rights Representative will be responsible for jointly investigating, with the Employee Relations Manager, any formal allegations of Human Rights violations, and will have full disclosure to investigations.
FOR THE UNION	FOR MANAGEMENT
[signed]	[signed]	[signed]	[signed]
Terry Fernandes	Shane Thurston	Jose Alonso	Allan Cassidy
[signed]	[signed]	[signed]	[signed]
Mike Reuter	Derrick Stairs	Mike McGarragle	Darryl Serafini
[signed]	[signed]	[signed]	[signed]
Sheldon Pickett	Bob Melnyk	Jasmyn Kozlowsky	Stephen Satchel
THORNCLIFFE
79
Between:
LETTER OF INTENT #31
National Automobile Aerospace, Transportation and General Workers Union of Canada (CAW - Canada), Local 385
- and -
Coca-Cola Refreshments Canada Company (Thorncliffe Plant)
Re:	Change in Start Times
If the Company determines it is necessary to adjust a start time in excess of thirty (30) minutes, the Company shall inform the Union of its decision. If the employee’s start time is adjusted in excess of
30 minutes his/her posting has been discontinued and he/she will bump 8.11.			in accordance with Article
FOR THE UNION		FOR MANAGEMENT	
[signed]	[signed]	[signed]	[signed]
Terry Fernandes	Shane Thurston	Jose Alonso	Allan Cassidy
[signed]	[signed]	[signed]	[signed]
Mike Reuter	Derrick Stairs	Mike McGarragle	Darryl Serafim
[signed]	[signed]	[signed]	[signed]
Sheldon Pickett	Bob Melnyk	Jasmyn Kozlowsky	Stephen Satchel
THORNCLIFFE
80
Between:
LETTER OF AGREEMENT #32
National Automobile Aerospace, Transportation and General Workers Union of Canada (CAW - Canada), Local 385
- and -
Coca-Cola Refreshments Canada Company (Thorncliffe Plant)
Re:	Hard Layoffs
The Company is determined to maintain appropriate staffing that takes into consideration the requirements of the marketplace and other customer demands.
Therefore, if during the life of this Collective Agreement the Company anticipates that it is necessary to reduce the workforce on a temporary basis, the Company will consider implementing a hard layoff of up to five (5) or more employees during the period spanning January 1 through March 15. These layoffs will be considered in three (3) week blocks.
It is understood that the implementation of this process shall be solely at the discretion of the Company. It is also understood that should there be a need to use temporary employees during any period of hard layoffs, any time worked by such temporary employees shall not be included in the number of days that would count towards achieving regular full time status as outlined in Article 2.03 of the Collective Agreement.
FOR THE UNION	FOR MANAGEMENT
[signed]	[signed]	[signed]	[signed]
Terry Fernandes	Shane Thurston	Jose Alonso	Allan Cassidy
[signed]	[signed]	[signed]	[signed]
Mike Reuter	Derrick Stairs	Mike McGarragle	Darryl Serafini
[signed]	[signed]	[signed]	[signed]
Sheldon Pickett	Bob Melnyk	Jasmyn Kozlowsky	Stephen Satchel
THORNCLIFFE
81
Between:
LETTER OF AGREEMENT #33
National Automobile Aerospace, Transportation and General Workers Union of Canada (CAW - Canada), Local 385
- and -
Coca-Cola Refreshments Canada Company (Thorncliffe Plant)
Re:	Training
During the life of this Collective Agreement, the company agrees to meet the following training commitments:
•	One AZ Licence Upgrade for a posted Saturday DSIC;
•	Two AZ Licence Upgrades to be offered to all DSICs by seniority; and
•	Seven Forklift Licences for each year of this Collective Agreement to be offered by seniority.
An employee who has received such training shall not then be entitled to refuse an assignment in the position for which he/she has been trained.
FOR THE UNION	FOR MANAGEMENT
[signed]	[signed]	[signed]	[signed]
Terry Fernandes	Shane Thurston	Jose Alonso	Allan Cassidy
[signed]	[signed]	[signed]	[signed]
Mike Reuter	Derrick Stairs	Mike McGarragle	Darryl Serafini
[signed]	[signed]	[signed]	[signed]
Sheldon Pickett	Bob Melnyk	Jasmyn Kozlowsky	Stephen Satchel
THORNCLIFFE
82
Between:
LETTER OF AGREEMENT #34
National Automobile Aerospace, Transportation and General Workers Union of Canada (CAW - Canada), Local 385
- and -
Coca-Cola Refreshments Canada Company (Thorncliffe Plant)
Re:	Work Clothing
It is agreed that on a yearly basis, a representative of the Union shall meet with a designated Department Manager to make recommendations about company issued work clothing. Such recommendations shall be forwarded to the Company’s Corporate office.
It is understood that work clothing issues still remain within the sole discretion of the Company.
FOR THE UNION	FOR MANAGEMENT
[signed]	[signed]	[signed]	[signed]
Terry Fernandes	Shane Thurston	Jose Alonso	Allan Cassidy
[signed]	[signed]	[signed]	[signed]
Mike Reuter	Derrick Stairs	Mike McGarragle	Darryl Serafim
[signed]	[signed]	[signed]	[signed]
Sheldon Pickett	Bob Melnyk	Jasmyn Kozlowsky	Stephen Satchel
THORNCLIFFE
83
Between:
LETTER OF AGREEMENT #35
National Automobile Aerospace, Transportation and General Workers Union of Canada (CAW - Canada), Local 385
- and -
Coca-Cola Refreshments Canada Company (Thorncliffe Plant)
Re:	I PET Layoffs
The Company confirms that the I.P.E.T. Driver in Thorncliffe will not be laid-off from his position as a result of the use of outside carriers.
In addition, the I.P.E.T. Driver will maintain the customary function as an I.P.E.T. Driver.
The Company acknowledges that the Thorncliffe I.P.E.T drivers currently or may perform work in the following lanes:
•	Barrie
•	Hamilton
•	Kingston
•	SIMGO
•	PEPSI
Further, should any of the lanes of work being performed by IPT (Brampton), as of the date of the ratification of this agreement, become necessary for IPET, such work would be made available.
The Company and the Union agree to convene a meeting on a yearly basis to discuss any additions, amendments, or deletions to the above list. The current scheduling practices for Thorncliffe IPET will continue.
FOR THE UNION	FOR MANAGEMENT
[signed]	[signed]	[signed]	[signed]
Terry Fernandes	Shane Thurston	Jose Alonso	Allan Cassidy
[signed]	[signed]	[signed]	[signed]
Mike Reuter	Derrick Stairs	Mike McGarragle	Darryl Serafini
[signed]	[signed]	[signed]	[signed]
Sheldon Pickett	Bob Melnyk	Jasmyn Kozlowsky	Stephen Satchel
THORNCLIFFE
84
Between:
LETTER OF AGREEMENT #36
National Automobile Aerospace, Transportation and General Workers Union of Canada (CAW - Canada), Local 385
- and -
Coca-Cola Refreshments Canada Company (Thorncliffe Plant)
Re:	Equipment Service Trainees
In the event that a current Service Technician or Equipment Preparation SetUp Person gives notice of retirement or attrition during the life of this Collective Agreement, and if the Company deems it necessary to backfill this position, the vacant position will be posted as "Equipment Service Trainee.”
FOR THE UNION	FOR MANAGEMENT
[signed]	[signed]	[signed]	[signed]
Terry Fernandes	Shane Thurston	Jose Alonso	Allan Cassidy
[signed]	[signed]	[signed]	[signed]
Mike Reuter	Derrick Stairs	Mike McGarragle	Darryl Serafim
[signed]	[signed]	[signed]	[signed]
Sheldon Pickett	Bob Melnyk	Jasmyn Kozlowsky	Stephen Satchel
THORNCLIFFE
85
Between:
LETTER OF AGREEMENT #37
National Automobile Aerospace, Transportation and General Workers Union of Canada (CAW - Canada), Local 385
- and -
Coca-Cola Refreshments Canada Company (Thorncliffe Plant)
Re:	Layoff Practice
Please find our understanding regarding daily layoff listed below:
1)	It is the employee’s responsibility to check the daily layoff list posted at the departmental swipe clock before leaving the plant to see where he/she is scheduled for the next day.
2)	Should there be a change in the employee’s assignment after he/she has swiped out, it will be the Company’s responsibility to inform the employee of his/her next assignment i.e. shift and department.
3)	If the Company is unable to directly reach an employee by phone, a message will be left indicating the employee’s assignment. The employee will contact the Company immediately to confirm his/her availability upon receipt of the message. When an employee has been notified of a reassignment to a shift and department the employee will be considered to have been ‘activated’ to that shift and department and will be expected to report to that shift and department on his/her regularily posted days until the Company notifies the employee of a change to the employee’s assignment. If the employee cannot make the assigned shift and department for any reason, the employee will be expected to report to the same shift and department on the following day, unless otherwise notified by the Company.
4)	Should an employee who has been laid off to the street be called by the Company and be unavailable for an assignment the employee will be considered to have been ‘activated’ to that shift and department and will be expected to report to that shift and department on his regularly posted days until the Company notifies the employee of a change to the employee’s assignment.
5)	If an employee is absent for any reason (i.e. Sick, lieu day, approved leave, vacation or other) the employee will return to his/her last scheduled shift and department unless notified differently.
Please note:
It is the employee’s responsibility to provide the Company with a maximum of two (2) phone numbers for the purposes of recall. Such contact information must be updated as soon as a change occurs so they can be reached for work. The employee is required to indicate a “primary” phone number of the two, and the Company shall only be required to leave a message at the primary contact number.
FOR THE UNION	FOR MANAGEMENT
[signed]	[signed]	[signed]	[signed]
Terry Fernandes	Shane Thurston	Jose Alonso	Allan Cassidy
[signed]	[signed]	[signed]	[signed]
Mike Reuter	Derrick Stairs	Mike McGarragle	Darryl Serafini
[signed]	[signed]	[signed]	[signed]
Sheldon Pickett	Bob Melnyk	Jasmyn Kozlowsky	Stephen Satchel
THORNCLIFFE
86
Between:
LETTER OF AGREEMENT #38
National Automobile Aerospace, Transportation and General Workers Union of Canada (CAW - Canada), Local 385
- and -
Coca-Cola Refreshments Canada Company (Thorncliffe Plant)
Re:	Distribution Ten (10) Hour Shifts
As discussed by the parties at the 2007 negotiations, should the Company decide to implement ten (10) hour shifts with fewer than three (3) consecutive days off, the company shall meet with the Union to discuss such implementation. Employees on ten (10) hour shifts will be scheduled with a minimum of two (2) consecutive days off.
FOR THE UNION	FOR MANAGEMENT
[signed]	[signed]	[signed]	[signed]
Terry Fernandes	Shane Thurston	Jose Alonso	Allan Cassidy
[signed]	[signed]	[signed]	[signed]
Mike Reuter	Derrick Stairs	Mike McGarragle	Darryl Serafim
[signed]	[signed]	[signed]	[signed]
Sheldon Pickett	Bob Melnyk	Jasmyn Kozlowsky	Stephen Satchel
THORNCLIFFE
87
Between:
LETTER OF AGREEMENT #39
National Automobile Aerospace, Transportation and General Workers Union of Canada (CAW - Canada), Local 385
- and -
Coca-Cola Refreshments Canada Company (Thorncliffe Plant) Re:	Alternative Distribution
The Company and the Union agree that alternative distribution methods, resulting from a customer(s) request, such as indirect sales/store delivery (e.g. Subway requesting that Sysco act as its preferred vendor), direct delivery to a customers’ warehouse or a third parties warehouse on behalf of the customer rather than a customers’ retail outlet, or the use of wholesalers does not constitute contracting out under Article 20 - Work of the Bargaining Unit. When there is a change to a delivery model for a particular customer, the Company will provide the Union with ten (10) days advance notice in writing prior to implementation.
FOR THE UNION	FOR MANAGEMENT
[signed]	[signed]	[signed]	[signed]
Terry Fernandes	Shane Thurston	Jose Alonso	Allan Cassidy
[signed]	[signed]	[signed]	[signed]
Mike Reuter	Derrick Stairs	Mike McGarragle	Darryl Serafim
[signed]	[signed]	[signed]	[signed]
Sheldon Pickett	Bob Melnyk	Jasmyn Kozlowsky	Stephen Satchel
THORNCLIFFE
88
Between:
LETTER OF AGREEMENT #40
National Automobile Aerospace, Transportation and General Workers Union of Canada (CAW - Canada), Local 385
- and -
Coca-Cola Refreshments Canada Company (Thorncliffe Plant)
Re:	Equipment Service
The Company and Union agree to the following items:
1.	A trial process assigning all Cooler Delivery Drivers to straight eight (8) hour shifts. After July 31, 2011 the Company will meet with the Union to review this trial. Following this meeting, the Company will determine the appropriate shift structure.
2.	For the purposes of scheduled overtime on scheduled days-off for Equipment Service Technicians, this overtime will be offered to the senior Technician so long as the required service van is available.
3.	For all other overtime on regularly scheduled days, performed at the facility or in the trade, it will first be offered to Technicians who normally performed the work (inside/outside). Once the overtime has been exhausted (inside/outside) then the overtime will be offered to all the Technicians as per Article 9.11 and 9.12.
4.	The Company will repost the Equipment Service Technicians (inside/outside) to all the Technicians currently in those positions.
5.	Point 6 of the Minutes of Settlement re: Thorncliffe Equipment Service Department arising from policy grievance #3380 filed on October 14, 2003 is null and void.
FOR THE UNION	FOR MANAGEMENT
[signed]	[signed]	[signed]	[signed]
Terry Fernandes	Shane Thurston	Jose Alonso	Allan Cassidy
[signed]	[signed]	[signed]	[signed]
Mike Reuter	Derrick Stairs	Mike McGarragle	Darryl Serafim
[signed]	[signed]	[signed]	[signed]
Sheldon Pickett	Bob Melnyk	Jasmyn Kozlowsky	Stephen Satchel
THORNCLIFFE
89
Between:
LETTER OF AGREEMENT #41
National Automobile Aerospace, Transportation and General Workers Union of Canada (CAW - Canada), Local 385
- and -
Coca-Cola Refreshments Canada Company (Thorncliffe Plant)
Re:	Training Matrix for Equipment Service Trainee
Before being classified as a Service Technician, an Equipment Service Trainee must successfully complete a training matrix which comprises four (4) consecutive sections of study. These are: Coolers Prep, Vendor Prep, Fountain Prep and Fountain Installs. A trainee must achieve a minimum passing grade of 65% to proceed to the next level of training. It is mutually understood that:
(a)	If the Company, in its sole discretion, determines that a trainee may have acquired previous training and expertise in any one or more specific piece of equipment the Company may then be able to use that trainee to work on that equipment without the need for supervision. Despite this, the trainee must still complete the required training to be able to become a Service Technician.
(b)	A trainee may choose to fast track and write a test prior to the completion of the sectional training. If so, he will only be allowed additional training if he failed (with a mark of between 55% and 64%) and time limits will not be extended. The trainee must spend at least the route ride time with a technician prior to writing any tests. All tests must be written by the end of each sectional training (ie end of 10th or end of 20th week as applicable).
The Company is prepared to meet with the Union to discuss any amendments to this matrix, but it is agreed that the Company reserves the right to exercise its sole discretion in the implementation of this or any amended training matrix.
The following constitutes the requirements for trainees in each section of study:
Cooler Prep:
•	10 weeks
•	Two (2) weeks in shop training
•	Eight (8) weeks, working on coolers alone
Vendors Prep:
•	10 weeks
•	Two (2) weeks in shop training
•	Eight (8) weeks, working on vendors alone
Fountains Prep
•	10 weeks
•	Two (2) weeks in shop training
•	Eight (8) weeks, working on fountain equipment alone
THORNCLIFFE
90
Fountain Installs
•	20 weeks
•	In the trade rides with an install technician as a helper; learns multiple installations
on various pieces of equipment
Other agreed to items:
Subject to the above provisions:
•	The Company and Union agree that a one (1) week refresher job shadow training will be allowed for any trainee who does not pass a section but does receive a mark between 55% and 64%. A trainee receiving a mark below 55% in any section will be released from the training program.
•	The Company and the Union agree that there is no final exam for the trainee and that successful completion of the four sections is sufficient.
•	The Company and the Union agree that in the event of a layoff, any and all trainees will be laid off regardless of seniority prior to a Service Technician.
•	For the purposes of completing the training period, the most junior Service Technician may be reassigned in order to complete the training requirements.
FOR THE UNION	FOR MANAGEMENT
[signed]	[signed]	[signed]	[signed]
Terry Fernandes	Shane Thurston	Jose Alonso	Allan Cassidy
[signed]	[signed]	[signed]	[signed]
Mike Reuter	Derrick Stairs	Mike McGarragle	Darryl Serafim
[signed]	[signed]	[signed]	[signed]
Sheldon Pickett	Bob Melnyk	Jasmyn Kozlowsky	Stephen Satchel
THORNCLIFFE
91
Between:
LETTER OF AGREEMENT #42
National Automobile Aerospace, Transportation and General Workers Union of Canada (CAW - Canada), Local 385
- and -
Coca-Cola Refreshments Canada Company (Thorncliffe Plant)
Re:	Acceptance of Job Posting Trial
The Company and Union agree to begin a trial process for all postings where the successful applicant must accept the position he/she has posted for. The sole exception to this is if the successful applicant applied for more than one position and was successful in attaining more than one position. In this case the employee must choose which position. The Company and Union will meet after July 31, 2011 to review the process and make any appropriate changes or amendments to the process. At the end of the trial, should either party deem this trial to be unsatisfactory, such trial shall be discontinued.
FOR THE UNION	FOR MANAGEMENT
[signed]	[signed]	[signed]	[signed]
Terry Fernandes	Shane Thurston	Jose Alonso	Allan Cassidy
[signed]	[signed]	[signed]	[signed]
Mike Reuter	Derrick Stairs	Mike McGarragle	Darryl Serafim
[signed]	[signed]	[signed]	[signed]
Sheldon Pickett	Bob Melnyk	Jasmyn Kozlowsky	Stephen Satchel
THORNCLIFFE
92
Between:
LETTER OF AGREEMENT #43
National Automobile Aerospace, Transportation and General Workers Union of Canada (CAW - Canada), Local 385
- and -
Coca-Cola Refreshments Canada Company (Thorncliffe Plant)
Re:	Carriage of Grievances
The Company and Union agree that the parties have carriage of their respective grievances.
FOR THE UNION	FOR MANAGEMENT
[signed]	[signed]	[signed]	[signed]
Terry Fernandes	Shane Thurston	Jose Alonso	Allan Cassidy
[signed]	[signed]	[signed]	[signed]
Mike Reuter	Derrick Stairs	Mike McGarragle	Darryl Serafim
[signed]	[signed]	[signed]	[signed]
Sheldon Pickett	Bob Melnyk	Jasmyn Kozlowsky	Stephen Satchel
THORNCLIFFE
93
Between:
LETTER OF AGREEMENT #44
National Automobile Aerospace, Transportation and General Workers Union of Canada (CAW - Canada), Local 385
- and -
Coca-Cola Refreshments Canada Company (Thorncliffe Plant)
Re:	Copies of Collective Agreement
The Company will provide the Union with 250 copies of the Collective Agreement. The Company will also provide the Union with an electronic version of the Collective Agreement.
FOR THE UNION	FOR MANAGEMENT
[signed]	[signed]	[signed]	[signed]
Terry Fernandes	Shane Thurston	Jose Alonso	Allan Cassidy
[signed]	[signed]	[signed]	[signed]
Mike Reuter	Derrick Stairs	Mike McGarragle	Darryl Serafim
[signed]	[signed]	[signed]	[signed]
Sheldon Pickett	Bob Melnyk	Jasmyn Kozlowsky	Stephen Satchel
THORNCLIFFE
94
Between:
LETTER OF AGREEMENT #45
National Automobile Aerospace, Transportation and General Workers Union of Canada (CAW - Canada), Local 385
- and -
Coca-Cola Refreshments Canada Company (Thorncliffe Plant) Re:	Individual Preferences
The purpose of this letter is to confirm the Company's intentions with respect to its endeavours to accommodate the individual preferences of employees in regard to their regularly assigned duties.
The following Warehouse postings only will identify the shift, department, and “function” within the classification in which the vacancy exists. For this purpose (and this purpose only), the following “functions” will be recognized:
W.B.No.1 - Job Classification:
General Help Functions:
Principally Sweeping/Cleaning General duties
Principally Load Consolidation/Sorting
Principally Forklift Operator - On September 1st of each year each Forklift Operator will select a preference of which Forklift function they would prefer for the next year. This will be done by shift, and selections will be made by seniority.
W.B.No.2 - Job Classification:
Principally Shunting including North door or Chute Every person posted to the shunting position will select a preference of which shunting task they want. This preference will be submitted by September 1st each year of this contract. And they will also indicate if they wish to move to the other shunting role if the regular employee who normally performs that role is absent.
W.B. No.3 - Job Classification:
Shipper Receiver
On September 1st of each year each Shipper will select a preference of which Shipper function they would prefer for the next year. This will be done by shift, and selections will be made by seniority. And they will also indicate if they wish to move to the other shipping role(s) if the regular employee who normally performs that role is absent.
It is expressly agreed that the function descriptions set out above are intended solely to identify the general or predominant nature of the tasks assigned to any employee and shall not in any way limit the Company's ability to assign other duties or tasks within the Job Classification.
It is understood that while an employee may have a given posting, under no circumstances does this restrict the ability of the Company to assign additional or other work. If work is not available within the posting, article 8.09 will apply.
THORNCLIFFE
95
For example:
•	If the North Door Shunter position is not needed on any given day, and the Shunter who has indicated his preference is senior to the employee with preference as the Chute Shunter, then he would displace the Chute Shunter and the Chute Shunter will follow Article 8.09.
•	In the event a daily promotion is required the Company will offer the promotion by seniority on the same shift to qualified employees.
FOR THE UNION	FOR MANAGEMENT
[signed]	[signed]	[signed]	[signed]
Terry Fernandes	Shane Thurston	Jose Alonso	Allan Cassidy
[signed]	[signed]	[signed]	[signed]
Mike Reuter	Derrick Stairs	Mike McGarragle	Darryl Serafim
[signed]	[signed]	[signed]	[signed]
Sheldon Pickett	Bob Melnyk	Jasmyn Kozlowsky	Stephen Satchel
THORNCLIFFE
96
Between:
LETTER OF AGREEMENT #46
National Automobile Aerospace, Transportation and General Workers Union of Canada (CAW - Canada), Local 385
- and -
Coca-Cola Refreshments Canada Company (Thorncliffe Plant)
Re:	Route Selection for Red Fleet Delivery Drivers
1.	The Company will determine the number of drivers required to meet the needs of the business on any given day.
2.	The Company will allow drivers to make same-day route selection in the allotted time determined by the Company based on seniority for all Red Fleet routes, excluding FSV. All Red Fleet drivers including FSV will start by seniority.
3.	If a driver has not made himself/herself available for route selection at the appropriate time then the provisions in Article 8.09 (g) shall apply.
4.	It is understood that if a driver elects to select a route or routes which are greater than their scheduled shift (scheduled overtime) he/she has done so knowing that he/she is required to complete such route or routes, or to work a minimum of the scheduled route time.
5.	The Company and Union agree that routes as dispatched will be considered “work in progress”.
6.	It is understood that the Company maintains the right to follow 8.06 (g). For example, should a particular qualification be required (ie - AZ license), and no junior employee within the department possesses this qualification, the Company maintains the right to require the employee to select work utilizing his qualification.
7.	If a driver selects a deemed 24-hour route (returns or held) they must finish the route at managements discretion.
8.	The Company maintains the right to hold routes for a later start time or day.
9.	In the event of overtime, overtime will be offered by seniority after all regularly scheduled drivers have made their selections. Employees on overtime will also be scheduled after the last regular employees start time.
10.	The Company may reassign routes with multiple loads in the event that Drivers fall behind schedule.
11.	Employees may have their start times moved earlier on Saturday’s in accordance with seniority and this will not be a violation of the “Change is Start Times” letter.
FOR THE UNION	FOR MANAGEMENT
[signed]	[signed]	[signed]	[signed]
Terry Fernandes	Shane Thurston	Jose Alonso	Allan Cassidy
[signed]	[signed]	[signed]	[signed]
Mike Reuter	Derrick Stairs	Mike McGarragle	Darryl Serafim
[signed]	[signed]	[signed]	[signed]
Sheldon Pickett	Bob Melnyk	Jasmyn Kozlowsky	Stephen Satchel
THORNCLIFFE
97
Between:
LETTER OF AGREEMENT #47
National Automobile Aerospace, Transportation and General Workers Union of Canada (CAW - Canada), Local 385
- and -
Coca-Cola Refreshments Canada Company (Thorncliffe Plant)
Re:	Signing Page Concerning Appendices and Letters
The Company and Union agree that the following list of Appendices and Letters have been agreed to and by signing this letter, it has the effect of signing each letter in the list. The list is as follows:
APPENDIX "A"
1.	Employees' Retirement Plan
2.	New Employee Orientation
3.	Substance Abuse
4.	"Red-Circled" Rates of Pay
5.	Ten-hour Shifts
6.	Advancement of Pay While Off On Medical Leave Pending Approval of Benefits
7.	Load Checking
8.	Spares Lists
9.	Occupational Health and Safety Act and Regulations
10.	Four Day Ten Hour Work Periods (Original Letter of Agreement Dated February 25, 1997)
11.	Previous Commitments Renewed
12.	Memorandum of Settlement January 16, 1998Re: Early Retirement
13.	Reprisals
14.	Seven (7) Day Operations
15.	Recall from Layoff (July 30, 2004)
16.	Disability Dispute Resolution Process
17.	Retiree Benefits
18.	Calendar Year Vacation
19.	Union Office
20.	Work Performed at Thorncliffe
21.	Benefit Carrier Issues
22.	Benefit Booklets
23.	Vacation Pay Calculations
24.	Union Elections
25.	Sales Equipment Service Technicians and Trainees
26.	Service Department
27.	Workplace Accommodations
28.	Holidays
29.	Harassment and Discrimination in the Workplace.
30.	Human Rights Representative
31.	Change in Start Times
32.	Hard Layoffs
33.	Training
34.	Work Clothing
35.	IPET Layoffs
36.	Equipment Service Trainees
37.	Layoff Practice
38.	Distribution Ten (10) Hour Shifts
THORNCLIFFE
98
39.	Alternative Distribution
40.	Equipment Service
41.	Training Matrix for Equipment Service Trainee
42.	Acceptance of Job Posting Trial
43.	Carriage of Grievances
44.	Copies of Collective Agreement
45.	Individual Preferences
46.	Route Selection for Red Fleet Delivery Drivers
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the Parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be executed by their respective duly authorized representatives at the City of Toronto, in the Province of Ontario, this 25th day of January, 2011.
FOR THE UNION	FOR MANAGEMENT
THORNCLIFFE
99