JUN _ OUIN
SOURCE	Co,			
EFF.	^3	Cl5	
TERM.	qs	ot	
No. Or
EMPLOYEES 1^.0 0
NOMillE .
D^EMPLOYis 9nFN
C 0 T. L F. C T 1 V F, AGREEMENT BETWEEN:
PEPSI-COLA CANADA BEVERAGES LIMITED - and -
SOFT. DRINK WORKERS JOINT LOCAL EXECUTIVE BOARD up CHVrARRJ, OF TTTE UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION, LOCAL 387.
Effective:	May 9,1993
Expiry:	January 31, 1995
3 1994

3.01
ARTICLE 3
MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
The Company retains the sole right to manage the affairs of the business and to direct the working force. The following enumeration of management rights shall not be deemed to exclude other rights of management not specifically set forth. The Company, therefore, retains all rights not otherwise specifically restricted by this Agreement.
Such functions of management include, but are not limited to: the right to determine all methods of selling, marketing, producing, warehousing, distributing, merchandising, and advertising of products including pricing of products; the right to introduce or test new or improved sales, distribution, production methods; the right to establish, assign, alter, changes, adjust, discontinue and combine sales territories and routes; the right to add new products or cancel existing products and to adjust territories and routes due to the addition or subtraction of such products; the right to determine the location and number of production and distribution facilities; the right to determine the sales areas the Company will service and the customers in such areas where it will serve; the right to allocate and assign work or transfer work out of the bargaining unit; the right to allocate and assign work or transfer work from one department to another; the right to establish standards and to maintain the efficiency of employees; the right to introduce new or improved production methods, or facilities; the right to reduce the workforce; the right to determine the number of employees required to perform job or function; the right to assign employees to a job or shift and to rearrange jobs and functions to eliminate slack and idle time; the right to determine the amount of overtime and the assignment of overtime to the employees; the right to plan and schedule production; the right to schedule shifts, work hours and work week; the right to abolish past work customs and practices; the right to hire, fire, transfer, promote or demote employees; the right to lay off, terminate or otherwise relieve employees from duty; the right to make and enforce rules for the maintenance of discipline; the right to suspend, discharge or otherwise discipline employees for cause and to take such other measures as the Company may determine tn	necessary nr nlu* ovubvty; efficient or economical
operation of its business; the right to subcontract work; the right to establish and administer tests; the right to require medical examination; the right to change and adjust scheduling of territories and routes; the right to change and eliminate geographical sectors; the right to curtail, sell or lease the business or any part thereof; the right to discontinue or merge departments; the right to adjust, reduce or increase machine speeds; the right to introduce new jobs and the rates to paid with respect to them during the contract term; the right to determine the processes and materials to be employed; the right to discontinue processes or operations or to discontinue their performance by employees of the Company; the right to determine the number of cases and the number of customers’ that Delivery Merchandiser is to deliver and call on, on a daily basis
with or without a helper; the right to assign vehicles; the right to deduct for settlement sheet shortages from any employee who has been assigned responsibilities of a route and who has signed an issue slip accepting responsibility of the merchandises; the right to deduct from any employee who has accepted a not-sufficient fund cheque where it has been specified that not cheques should be accepted from an account; the right to deduct from any employee who has extended credit where it has been specified that no credit should be given to an account; the right establish House Accounts or dock pickup accounts-direct warehouse accounts which will not be the responsibility of the presalesmen and for which he will not receive commissions; the right to establish House Accounts or dock pickup accounts-direct warehouse accounts which will be delivered by employees selected by the Company or Agents of the purchaser; the right to have delivery personnel sort empty bottles returned to plant; the right to cut off all employee benefit plans in the event of a strike; the right to determine financial and administrative policies, including general accounting procedures and customer relations; the right to determine qualifications required by an employee to perform any particular job.
The listing of specific rights in this Agreement is not intended to be, nor shall be restrictive of or a waiver of any of the rights of management not listed and specifically surrendered herein whether or not such rights have been exercised by the Company in the past.
The Company agrees that these functions will be exercised in a manner not inconsistent with any article or section of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 4
UNION SECURITY AND CHECK-OFF UNION MEMBERSHIP
Every employee covered by this Agreement shall, as a condition of his continued employment, become and remain a member of the Union in good standing. Employees hired after the effective date of this Agreement shall, as a condition of employment, join the Union at the end of their probationary period.
CHECK-OFF
The Company agrees to deduct weekly from the earnings of regular and probationary employees, regular Union dues and to remit the amount so deducted monthly to the designated officer of the Union.
In order that the Company have definite instructions as to what amount is to be deducted for monthly dues, it is agreed that the Union shall promptly notify the Company, in writing, over the signature of its designated Officer, the amount of the deduction to be made by the Company for regular monthly dues, and the Company shall have the right to continue to rely on such written notification from the Union signed with the same formality.
INDEMNIFICATION
The Union agrees to hold the Company harmless against all claims, demands and expenses should any person, at any time, contend or claim the Company has acted wrongfully in making such dues deductions.
ARTICLE 5
UNION REPRESENTATIVES
ACCESS TO PLANT
The Representative of the Union may visit the plant in accordance with the Company’s procedure to conduct Union business with the Company and/or to assist in adjusting grievances. The Representative will be accompanied by the Designated Company Representative while on the premises. This privilege shall be so exercised that no time is lost unnecessarily to the Company or the employees.
SHOP STEWARDS
Tine Company recognizes the right of the Union to designate a reasonable number of Shop Stewards, not to exceed Twelve (12) Stewards to handle such Union business as may from time to time be delegated to them by the Union, which shall not interfere with any employee’s regular work, unless prior approval has been granted by the Company. The Company will not recognize an t-TTiptoytt ~<£S"oc*vn.tWcd u unless Vihr&rrccewdr su\aY notification from the Union. Shop Stewards have no authority to take strike action or any other action interrupting the Company’s business or the efficiency of the operation in violation of this Agreement or any action in violation of the law. The Company, in so recognizing such limitations shall have the authority to impose proper discipline, including discharge without recovery, to such Shop Steward, in the vent the Shop Steward has taken unauthorized strike action, slow-down, sit-down, picketing, boycott, concerted activity, refusal to work or work stoppage in violation of this Agreement. A Shop Steward shall be an employee of the Company and must have completed one (1) year of employment unless mutually agreed between the Company and the Union. Grievance meetings will ordinarily be held before or after the working hours of the aggrieved
employee. However, when the Company and the Union agree to schedule a grievance meeting during the working hours of a Union Representative authorized to process the grievance or the aggrieved employee, or a witness whose presence is mutually agreed to be necessary, such employees will be paid for the actual time lost.
The Company shall not be required to meet with more than one (1) Steward at any one time except as provided for in the Agreement - i.e. committees.
Shop Stewards shall not deal with a grievance during working hours without the prior permission of their Supervisor and in return for this, shall be paid their regular rate for time lost during such investigation.
5.03	UNION ACTIVITIES
T’lft’i't cJjnUi h/t nm'sdinitatmninfi mfcnh/uriiiip *'ni*hft,TJnkn.
activity during employees’ working hours unless the activity is specifically authorized by this Agreement.
5.04	PAY FOR UNION REPRESENTATIVES WHEN AUTHORIZED TO BE ABSENT
A Union Representative who requests to be absent from work to attend Union conventions or seminars, must present the request in writing to the Company at least five (5) working days in advance of the meeting, and the Company will give due consideration to the request. The Union will reimburse the Company for the wages and fringes to be paid to the Union Representative while absent from work.
5.05	UNION NEGOTIATING COMMITTEE
The Union shall have the right to select a Negotiating Committee consisting of the Local Union President and one (1) representative each from Warehouse, Production and Distribution areas, for a total of four (4). All members must have seniority with the Company and committee members who are absent from work for the sole purpose of labour negotiations shall be paid for time lost limited to eight (8) hours per day on scheduled negotiation days. The Union shall reimburse the Company at 50% of such cost,
The Union shall notify the Company, in writing, of the names of its officers, stewards and committee members. The Company shall not be required to recognize any officer, steward or committee member until such notification rom the Union has been received.
5.06	UNION RESPONSIBILITIES
The Union recognizes the responsibilities imposed upon it as the exclusive bargaining agent of the unit, and will cooperate and support the Company’s efforts to assure a full day’s work on the part of its members; actively combat absenteeism and any other practices which restrict optimum efficiency; improve the quality of workmanship and service; prevent accidents and strengthen goodwill between the Company and with the employees, the customer and the public.
ARTICLE 6 GENDER
6.01	The Use of the masculine gender in this Agreement shall be deemed to refer to persons of both sexes.
ARTICLE 7
NON-DISCRIMINATION
7.01	There shall be no discrimination against any employee because of race, ancestry, place of origin, colour, ethnic origin, citizenship, creed (religion), sex, sexual orientation, handicap or disability, age, marital status, family status, record of offenses or membership in the Union.
The Company recognizes its commitment and obligation to ensure that all employees, in accordance with the Ontario Human Rights Code, work in an environment based upon mutual respect and cooperation and free from harassment of any kind.
ARTICLE 8
ADDRESS AND TELEPHONE NUMBER
8.01	Each employee, whether active or inactive, shall keep the Company advised of his current address and telephone number, or contact, if a telephone is not available. The mailing of a notice to the address furnished to the Company by each employee shall be deemed to be compliance by the Company with any provision in this Agreement which require written notice to an employee.
ARTICLE 9 BULLETIN BOARD
9.01	The Company shall provide a Bulletin Board at locations to be designated by the Company for the purpose of allowing the Union Steward to post official Union notices only. These notices must be duly signed by an officer of the Union and previously approved by management and restricted to:
(a)	notices of Union recreational and social affairs;
(b)	notices of Union elections;
(c)	notices of Union appointments and results of Union elections;
<d) notices of Union meetings;
(e) other notices concerning bona fide Union activity such as: Credit Unions
There shall be not general distribution or posting by employees of pamphlets, advertising or political matter, notices, or any kind of literature upon Company property other than as herein provided.
ARTICLE 10
PROBATIONARY PERIOD
10.01	An employee shall be considered to be on probation and shall not be entitled to any seniority rights until after completing sixty-five (65) work days within a period of six (6) consecutive months from the date of last hire. If such employee shall be continued in the employ of the Company after the expiration of the probationary period, the length of service shall be computed from the date of last hire. Part-time and temporary employees who are hired on a full-time basis and have worked sixty-five (65) days in the immediately previous six (6) months, shall be credited with completing their probationary period and their last date of hire for seniority list purposes shall date sixty-five (65) days prior to the change to full-time basis.
An employee on probation may be discharged at the sole discretion of management an without just cause.
ARTICLE 11
GRIEVANCE AND ARBITRATION PROCEDURE
11.01	GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
Should differences arise between the Company and an employee, or between the Company and the Union, as to the meaning or application of the provisions of this Agreement only, there shall be no suspension or stoppage of work. The employee or the Union shall present all grievances within five (5) working days from the occurrence, situation, condition, or action of management giving rise to the grievance, or the grievance shall be considered waived.
Step 1; The employee shall discuss the grievance with supervisor involved. The supervisor will attempt to settle the grievance within twenty-four (24) hours after the discussion with the aggrieved
employee. If not settled at Step 1, the employee may take the grievance to Step 2.
fffap 2mplovee or Steward shall submit the grievance in writing to the Department Manager within three (3) working days following notification of the Company’s first step decision. The Department Manager, or his designee, shall attempt to resolved within three (3) working days, the written grievance may be submitted to Step 3. The written grievance shall identify:
(a)	the facts giving rise to the grievance;
(b)	the Article and Section of the Agreement the Union alleges that the Employer violated;
(c)	the relief requested; and the grievance shall be''signeu oy'™ employee and countersigned by the Steward.
Tfap Employee or Union shall notify the Regional Manager or his designee within three (3) working days after receipt of the Department Manager’s second step decision of its intent to pursue the grievance. The Regional Manager, or his designee will meet with the Union’s Business Representative, or his designee, to resolve the matter. In the event a settlement is not reached within five (5) working days, a dispute shall exist, and the resolution of the dispute shall be subject to arbitration. Grievances involving the suspension or discharge of an employee may begin at Step 3.
Those parties agree to follow each of the foregoing steps in the processing of grievances, and that if at any step the Company fails to give its answer within the time limit set forth, the Union may appeal the grievance to the next step. If at any step the employee fails to require the grievance to be submitted to the next step within three (3) working days following the expiration of the time limit as set forth in the step procedure, the grievance will be deemed by both parties to be settled. »* grievance that ensues ftcnYng uf£ period between the TefiiflfiaWUif date of the contract and the effective date of a new contract will not be subject to arbitration unless expressly agreed to by the Company.
The Company and the Union may extend the time limit set forth in the grievance procedure by mutual agreement. The party requesting the extension must do so in writing. Only a single grievance may be heard by the arbitrator at one time, except by mutual agreement.
it is understood that the Company may bring forward and give to the Union at any time any grievance:
(a)	with	respect to the conduct of the Union, its officers or committeemen;
(b)	with	respect to the conduct of the employees generally;
(c)	with	respect to the application or interpretation of any provision of this
Agreement.
The Company will first discuss with the Union the circumstances giving rise to the grievance before submitting a formal grievance herein.
The grievance will be presented in writing to the officials of the Union and meeting will h^ifeni^imhi^evern/^'caiiiiu&i "udys wivi/Ailfe *Jjirdn- ami1 its
Representative. Failure to agree within a period of four (4) calendar days subsequent to the meeting will permit the Company to refer the matter to a Board of Arbitration as hereinafter described, within thirty (30) calendar days,
11.02	ARBITRATION
A dispute shall be deemed settled unless a written notification requesting arbitration is received by the Company from the Union Business Representative within ten (10) working days of the Union’s receipt of the Company’s Step 3 decision under the grievance procedure. The written notification must state the issue to be arbitrated. If the Union submits a written request, the Company and the Union shall attempt to agree upon a neutral person whom they shall designate as the arbitrator. If they are unable to agree upon the selection of such an arbitrator, they shall request the Ministry of Labour for Ontario to appoint an arbitrator.
Employees, including Union Stewards, Representatives, and committeemen requested by the Union to attend a hearing during working hours, shall not be paid for the time lost.
The Company has the right to insist that the grievor be present during the hearing.
Any arbitrator selected under the provisions of this Article shall have the authority to render a decision which shall be final and binding on the parties to the extent provided by the law. Such decisions must be rendered within thirty (30) days of the hearing, unless otherwise agreed to by both the Company and the Union. The arbitrator shall have no power to alter or modify any of the terms of this Agreement, or to impose on any party a limitation or obligation not explicitly provided for in this Agreement. The professional fees of the Arbitrator plus any other related expenses over and above those fees, shall be borne equally by both the Company_and the Union.
ARTICLE 12
SENIORITY
12.01	As outlined in Article 2.01, seniority shall mean continuous employment in the bargaining unit covered by this agreement.
Benefit eligibility will start when the employee obtains full time status pursuant to the Benefits contract coverage.
In all other instances, seniority shall mean continuous employment in the prodcution, warehouse, vending, fleet, sales and delivery departments.
For those employees who are hired on the same date, surname alphabetical seniority shall govern.
12.02	LAYOFF AND RECALL
In any layoff or recall situation anticipated to be of five (5) consecutive working days or less, and subject to the Employer’s right to retain employees with the necessary skills, ability and qualifications to do the available work, the Employer will lay off the most junior employee in a department.
In all cases of layoff or recall which are anticipated to be greater than five (5) consecutive work days, and subject to the skill, ability and qualifications to perform the work, any such laid off employee will have the right to bump the most junior employee on the applicable (inside or outside) seniority list at the rate of pay for the position replaced.
If a regular full-time employee is to be laid off for in excess of one (1) day of work, he shall have the right to displace any temporary or seasonal employee in any department at the rate of pay for such seasonal or temporary employee provided they possess the necessary skills, ability, and qualifications to do the available work. In the case of a layoff due to a total or partial plant shutdown, an employee will have the opportunity to exercise any available earned vacation during the timeframe.
Employees will be recalled in reverse order to that in which they were laid off, subject to their skill, ability and qualifications to perform the available work.
In all cases of manpower changes, the rate for the position replaced will apply.
12.03 TOSS OF SENIORITY
An employee will lose seniority and will no longer be in the Company’s employ if the employee:
(a)	quits;
(b)	is discharged, and such discharge is not reversed through the grievance procedure herein;
(c)	retires;
(d)	is laid off for a period of the lesser of twelve (12) months or the length of the employee’s seniority.
(e)	fails to notify the Company of his intention to return to work within three (3) days after being notified by the Company of his recall in writing by telegram or registered mail, at his last address on record with the Company.
(f)	has a non-occupational sickness or disability exceeding eighteen (18) calendar months;
(g)	works another job while absent from the Company except in case of layoff,
(h)	is absent from work for two (2) days without prior notification to, and approval of, the Company.
12.04 JOB POSTING
In the event of a permanent job vacancy in a classification on the inside seniority list (Production, Warehouse, or Fleet Departments), any employee in another inside classification may bid for the job. Where the skill, ability and qualifications of bidding employees are relatively equal, the most senior employee will be awarded the job. Postings shall be for three (3) days. The original and first successive vacancies (i.e. the successful applicant) will be posted and any subsequent vacancies may be filled at the Company’s discretion. All job posting shall indicate the job classification, rate of pay, and the department. The current shift will also be indicated.
NOTE:	This does not create any restrictions on
the Company right to alter shifts.
There shall be two (2) seniority lists: one (1) seniority list for outside employees and one (1) list for inside employees which would include Production, Warehouse and Fleet.
L2.06 ASSIGNMENT OF SCHEDULED OVERTIME WORK
Whenever there is a need for scheduled overtime within a department on the employee(s) sixth or seventh working day (or overtime which is scheduled at least 24 hours in advance), the overtime will be offered to:
(1)	the employee(s) who normally perform the job and, if the employee(s) or not enough employees are available to perform the work the Company will;
(2)	off the overtime work to the most qualified senior employee within the department and, if the employee(s) or not enough employees are available to perform the work, the Company will;
(3)	offer the work to the most qualified employee outside the department capable of performing the available overtime work. If none or not enough employees are available to perform the work, the Company will require the least senior qualified employee(s) to perform the work.
12.07 An employee who is or has been transferred from the bargaining unit to a job with the Company outside of the bargaining unit, will continue to accumulate seniority for a period of up to one (1) year.
ARTICLE 13
NO STRIKE, NO LOCKOUT
13.01	The Company agrees that there will be no lockout of employees, and the Union agrees that there will be no strike, slowdown, sit-down or other interference with work or the Company’s operations while the Agreement is in force.
The Company will continue all employee benefit plans in the event of a strike at the expense of the Union.
ARTICLE 14
TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE
14.01	If, during the life of the Agreement, the Company wishes to introduce new technology which would have the effect of eliminating an existing classification or creating a new classification, the Company will give the Union notice, in writing, of such changes thirty (30) days in advance: and upon request, before the implementation of such changes, the Company will arrange a meeting with the Union to discuss the effects of the employment status of such employees affected by such change.
14.02	If a regular employee should be displaced from his job by reason of a
technological change in the Company’s operations, and provided the employee has the necessary qualifications to perform the work available after a reasonable training period, the Company shall arrange for him to receive such training.
ARTICLE 15
SUPERVISORS PERFORMING BARGAINING-UNIT WORK
15.01	Supervisors will not normally perform work customarily performed by the employees in the bargaining unit, except:
(a)	as a result of an urgent or emergency condition;
(b)	for ure purpose of uemonsiraTiUu training;
(c)	to occasionally relieve an employee for a short period; or
(d)	when a regular employee is not available due to being late for work or absent from work.
Such work by supervisors will not result in the layoff of any regular full-time employees falling within the scope of this Agreement.
Sales supervisors shall continue to perform their normal sales and merchandising activities.
ARTICLE 16
HOURS AND WORK WEEK FOR HOURLY-PAID, BASE AND/OR COMMISSION AND/OR WEEKLY SALARY EMPLOYEES
16.01 TVit" wTTi p<1 i1 vwj'k ’wudk 'ihrcHihyt torn (4) consecutive ten (10) hour days or fit?
(5) consecutive eight (8) hour days commencing on or after Saturday midnight and ending on or before the following Saturday midnight.
Every employee will have at least two (2) consecutive days off including a Saturday or a Sunday.
This provision shall not be construed as an obligation on the part of the Company to provide employee, with any specified number of hours during a work day or work week.
16.02	The Company reserves the sole right to establish the number of shifts, the start and stopping time of each shift, and to cancel shifts as necessary to assure the efficient operation of the business. Provided skill ability and qualifications are equal, seniority shall determine work week assignments.
In the production area, seniority shall determine changes to work week assignments of three (3) consecutive months or more subject to skill, ability and qualifications being equal.
16.03	For eligible inside employee’s, overtime will be paid at time and one half ( 1 1/2) at the regular straight time base rate for all authorized work performed:
(a)	In excess of forty (40) hours a week, and credit will be given for all excused approved absences;
(b)	on a holiday;
(c)	on a day not part of the regular work schedule.
16.04	Eligible outside employees shall receive daily overtime based on one and one half (11/2) times their regular weekly or daily rate - i.e. Forty (40) hours weekly or eight/ten (8/10) hours daily as appropriate, for all authorized work performed in excess of eight (8) or ten (10) hours daily based on the respective shift.
Overtime will be paid on the greater of the weekly or daily overtime but not both - i.e. There will not be any pyramiding of overtime, one half (1/2) hour will be allowed daily for meals and breaks.
Pre-Sellers shall have one (1) hour unpaid meal with daily overtime at time and one half (11/2) for all authorized work over eight (8) hours or ten (10) hours daily based on the respective shift, calculated from 8:00 a.m.
16.05	The Company will not pay premium pay on premium pay, nor will there be any pyramiding of premium pay.
16.06	In the event the Company introduces a new work week schedule, prior to the implementation, the Company agrees to meet with the Union to discuss arid document the number of employees that will be assigned to the work schedule.
Any changes to the work week from four (4) to five (5) days or five (5) to four (4) days will require one week’s notice except in the case of an event outside the control of the Company.
ARTICLE 17 PAID HOLIDAYS
17.01	ELIGIBILITY
To qualify for a paid holiday, an employee must have completed the probationary period, worked on the last regular work day, except on an approved leave of absence, preceding or following the holiday if requested by management to do so, and must have been on the active payroll for a four (4) week period immediately preceding the holiday.
17.02	NUMBER OF HOLIDAYS
New Year’s Day ..................................... Civic Holiday
Working Day After New Year’s Day ................... Labour Day
Good Friday .................................. Thanksgiving Day
Victoria Day............................. ’/2-Day at Christmas Eve
Canada Day ...................................... Christmas Day
Boxing Day
*-One-half (Vi) day on Christmas Eve when falling on a regular work day.
17.03	HOLIDAY PAY FOR HOURLY PATD EMPLOYEES
Holiday pay will be computed by multiplying an employee’s regular hourly base rate by eight (8) hours.
17.04	HOLIDAY PAY FOR WEEKLY PAID EMPLOYEES
Holiday pay wi/J be computed as one-fifth (l/5th) of an eligible employee’s
weekly earnings. For Pre-Sellers the Company will add 12% (twelve percent) of such amount in recognition of bonus.
ARTICLE 18 VACATIONS
18.01	ELIGIBILITY
Vacation entitlement shall be based on full years of continuous service as a permanent full-time regular employee as of December 31 of the vacation year.
18.02	SCHEDULING OF VACATION
Employees will be solicited for their vacation preference during the period January 1 to February 15. Vacation schedule selection will be determined by job classification seniority. Should an employee fail to make the vacation selection(s) by February 15, the Company will assign the employee’s vacation weeks.
20.03	Up to one (1) day’s pay will be paid for time lost caused by attendance at the funeral of the employee’s grandparents, grandchild, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, mother-in-law or father-in-law.
20.04	Bereavement pay shall be computed the same as for a Paid Holiday as specified in Article 17.
20.05	The Company reserves the right to require satisfactory proof of death and the employee’s attendance at the funeral.
ARTICLE 21 SICK LEAVE
21.01	AMOUNT OF FI/fGTBTLTTY
All regular full-time employees having one (1) or more years of.service with the Company shall be allowed up to six (6) days of sick leave per calendar year.
The employee who is absent under the provision of this section must personally advise his immediate supervisor of such illness prior to the start of the shift. Failure to do so will render the absence unexcused and unpaid unless it can be shown that it was impossible for the employee to give or cause such notice to be given to his supervisor. Family illness does not qualify for payment under the provisions of this section.
The Company may require proof of illness and/or a doctor’s certificate, after an employee has been absent for illness or accident for three (3) days in a calendar year.
21.02	SICK T/RAVF- PAYMENT
Sick days will be paid to eligible employees at two-thirds (2/3rds) of the amount as calculated for Holiday Pay under Article 17.
21.03	SICK LEAYE BONUS
After each year without being absent for any reason other than illness or leave under the provisions of this Collective Agreement, the employee is entitled to received the credit, payment he has not used for sick leave, up to a maximum of six (6) days per calendar year, at the rate established for a Statutory Holiday.
An employee who, at the end of a calendar year, has unused credit of five (5) days or more is entitled to a leave of absence of one (1) complete work week,
provided he has not been absent during the calendar year, other than illness or authorized leave of absence.
For each incident of unexcused absence, there will be a one day reduction in sick leave bonus eligibility up to the maximum bonus eligibility of 6 days. Special considerations may be granted in emergency situations out of the employee’s control.
An employee absent for more than one (1) month by reason of Workers’ Compensation leave or layoff will have any bonus payment to which he might otherwise be entitled, pro-rated over the course of the calendar year.
ARTICLE 22 LEAD PERSON
22.01	T‘rft.Cnmipuii>rA.rAnvuvhfL'i7^/.1.t >.<j appmni'iLiy'bargaining-unit employee as a
Lead person, without regard for seniority, for any length of period and at nay time it deems appropriate.
An employee who is appointed to a lead person position, and works at least one (1) hours as a lead person, will be paid a minimum of fifty cents (50c) an hour above his regular rate.
Lead person shall be responsible to organize and direct the work force in work procedures under a supervisor’s instructions. Lead person shall not issue disciplinary notations.
ARTICLE 23 SAFETY
23.01	The Company and the Union mutually agree that employees should be encouraged to cooperate in the maintenance of health and safe working conditions, and in the observance of the Occupational Health and Safety Act.
The Company will provide at no cost to the employees, any protective equipment or clothing as specified by the Occupational Health and Safety Act. This will be done on a replacement system. A copy of Form 7 will be given to the appropriate Safety Committee.
23.02	The Company and the Union mutually agree to continue and improve its modified work program.
736.02
750.74s/
Pre-Sellers
All Pre-Sellers will have eligibility for performance against specific sales, marketing and merchandising objectives. Bonuses will be in periods consisting of thirteen (13) weeks (quarterly), and will be administered through the existing Company Performance Planning and Appraisal (PP&A) format. Bonuses will be based as percentage of base earnings during the 13 week period. Bonuses will be paid on a quarterly basis.
Significantly Below Target	12%
Below Target	13.5%
On Target	15%
Above Target	16.5%
Significantly Above Target	18%
Qualified delivery persons temporarily promoted to Pre-Seller shall receive $14.58 for each day worked.
24.02	SHIFT DIFFER ENTIAI,
Shift differential of .50e per hour worked, shall paid to all employees assigned to a shift starting at or after 11:00 a.m. They will receive the shift premium for all hours worked after 4:00 p.m.
24.03	SATURDAY AND SUNDAY PREMIUM
Employees whose normal five (5) day work week includes a Saturday or Sunday will be paid a 75e premium for each hour worked on Saturday, and $1,00 premium for each hour worked on Sunday. There will be no premium on the Saturday or Sunday premiums.
24.04	VENDING
For Vending employees recalled to work on any day they shall be paid time and one-half (1 l/z) for all hours actually worked, or 3 hours at his regular straight time hourly rate, whichever is greater.
Servicemen will be given three dollars ($3.00) per week for ‘hone calls and parking meters.
Servicemen will be reimbursed for tool expenses up to One Hundred and fifty Dollars ($150.00) per year when a receipt is provided.
ARTICLE 24 WAGES
24.01	HOURLY. BASF. PLUS COMMISSION AND WEEKLY RATES
JOB CLASSIFICATION	E F F	'F.CTIV
Pepartment - Production	02/01/93	
Maintenance I / Electrician	$18.91	$19.29
Maintenance II	17.49	17.84
Attendant I	17.49	17.84
Attendant II	16.28	16.61
Forklift	16.23	16.55
General Labour	16.00	16.32
Department - Warehouse		
Checker	17.49	17.84
Shipper/Receiver	16.72	17.05
P.C.L.	16.40	16.73
Forklift	16.23	16.55
General Warehouse Labour	16.00	16.32
Department - Fteet		
Mechanic - Class A / Forklift Tech.	18.91	19.29'
Painter	18.20	18.56
Mechanical Labour	16.28	16.61
General Labour	16.00	16.32
Department. .Vending		
Service Tech. A	“18.91	19.29
Service Tech. B	18.20	18.56
Service Tech. Trainee	13.67	13.94
Special Delivery Driver	688.05	701.81
Special Delivery Assistant	632.94	645.60
Fountain Driver	693.24	707.10
Full Service	688.05	701.81
Department - Delivery		
Delivery / Merchandiser	688.05	701.81 ^
Delivery / Merchandiser Assistant	632.94	645.60/
Tractor Trailer routes get $28.00 weekly allowance
ARTICLE 25
APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
25.01	PERSONAL LEAVE
A permanent full-time regular employee who has completed his probationary period may apply for a leave of absence without pay for legitimate personal reasons by completing the (Request for Personal Leave) form at least one (1) week in advance. Such request shall state the reasons for the leave. The Company will not unreasonably withhold granting personal leave. If the Company grants such leave it shall confirm the terms of the leave in writing. If an employee’s approved leave of absence exceeds one (1) month, he must arrange to prepay the premiums for all benefits; in any event, an employee on a leave of absence cannot be covered by Weekly Disability and Long Term Disability.
25.02	UNION LEAVE
The Company agrees to grant upon the written request of the Union, leave of absence for a period of not more than twelve (12) months to any employee who has been elected or appointed as an official of the National Union or of the Local Union, if such duties require him to have leave of absence from his Company duties. The Company will consider an extension of such leave for up to an additional twelve (12) months or the duration of the Collective Agreement, whichever is longer, if requested by the Union.
25.03	TRAINING LEAVE
If the Company sends an employee on a training course during working hours, the employee will be paid his regular earnings for the period. To qualify, training course content must, in the Company’s opinion, be of direct benefit to the Company’s operations.
In the event an employee enrols in a night school course that will benefit himself and the Company in relation to his respective job, the employee may apply in writing describing the course that he wishes to enrol in and explain the benefits to himself and the Company. Upon acceptance of the course by the Company it will pay 50% of the cost of the course to a maximum eighty dollars ($80.00) upon the successful completion of the course.
25.04	PATERNITY LEAVE
The Company will grant a leave of absence to a permanent full-time regular employee who has completed his probationary period for a period of one (1) day with pay for the purposes of attending the birth of his child or the adoption of his child-to-be.
ARTICLE 26
disciplinary record
26.01	All disciplinary notations in an employee’s work record (excluding suspensions) shall be removed from the file, provided the employee has had a clear disciplinary record during the immediately previous eighteen (18) months. Suspensions shall be removed after thirty-six (36) clear months.
ARTICLE 27 BENEFITS
27.01	BENEFIT PLAN
The Company agrees to provide a Benefits Plan as outlined in “Group Insurance Plan Booklet”.
ARTICLE 28
TERM OF AGREEMENT
28.01	This Agreement shall become effective May 9,1993 and shall remain in full force and effect through midnigHf Januaty 31.1995, and shall be renewed automatically thereafter for a period of one (I) year each unless either party gives notice in wiring of the desire to change or of termination at least one hundred and twenty (120) days prior to the current expiration date of this Agreement Within thirty (30) days of the expiration of this Agreement, both the Company and the Union, upon receipt of written notice, shall confer and the Company and the Union, upon receipt of written notice, shall confer and attempt to negotiate as to the proposed changes or a renewal Agreement.
The parties hereto, by written agreement, may extend said period for the purpose
ANNEX 1 - UNIFORM
The uniform allowance for employee(s) will be provided on the following basis:
A full, clean uniform, or suitable work clothing as specified by the Employer, shall be worn at ail times while performing services on behalf of the Company. Uniforms are required so that employees will present a neat, professional appearance and image of the Company. The Company agrees to furnish uniforms and the employees are responsible for maintaining uniforms.
Employees are not to wear Ah?.\r jmifosny Jn places that would reflect negatively
on the Company’s image, during non-working hours. Failure to adhere to the uniform code at all times shall result in discipline, up to and including discharge.
DELIVERY MERCHANDISERS. HELPERS. VENDING SERVICE DEPARTMENT - FULL-TIME
Each employee is entitled to: A summer issue consisting of two (2) pairs of lightweight pants and two (2) shirts; a Winter issue consisting to two (2) jackets, two (2) shirts and two (2) pairs of pants; one (1) tie and one (1) cap. In addition, each employee is required to wear safety boots. If an employee does not wish to draw the full allotment as indicated above, he will be able to draw the articles he requires as long as the cost for the articles requested does not exceed the total cost of the normal issue as indicated below. If the amount exceeds the cost of the normal issue, the employee will be charged the difference and this amount will be immediately deducted from his subsequent payroll cheque. The Company will provide a maximum of two (2) pairs of safety boots.
The amount of the fund will be $355.00
As indicated above, the uniform issues are on a no-charge basis as long as the total fund is not exceeded. Uniforms shall be and remain the property of the Company at all times. However, if an employee leaves the Company, he will be charged on the basis of the unamortized balance of the return of pants and jackets if they are dry-cleaned and in reusable condition. No credit will be given for shirts, caps or ties.
PRESALESMEN/EQUIPMENT SALESMEN
Each salesman is required to wear, on a daily basis, the prescribed uniform consisting of a jacket, pants, tie and overcoat. The Company will absorb a percentage of the cost of the uniform up to a maximum amount per year. The salesman is therefore able to purchase any article of clothing or safety footwear and the Company will contribute to the maximum of the year’s fund towards this
cost with the balance being paid by the salesman, to the Company by way of weekly payroll deduction. The payroll deduction will be made at the rate of $5.00 per week until the balance has been paid.
The amount of the fund will be $425.00
Under no circumstances will the balance be carried forward in the employee’s accounts receivable from one fiscal year to the next.
PRODUCTION - WAREHOUSE - FULL-TIME
Each employee is entitled to summer issue consisting of three (3) shirts and two
(2)	pants and a winter issue consisting of three (3) shirts and two (2) pants. In addition, each employee is required to wear safety boots and protective hearing devices. If an employee does not wish to draw his full allotment as indicated above, he will be able to draw the articles he required as long as the cost of the articles requested does not exceed the total cost of the normal issue. The employee will be charged the difference and this amount will be immediately deducted from his subsequent payroll cheque.
The Company will provide a maximum of two (2) pairs of safety boots.
The amount of the fund will be $170.00.
As indicated above, the uniform issues are on a no-charge basis as long as the total fund is not exceeded. However, if an employee leaves the Company, he will be charged on the basis of the unamortized balance of the value of the uniform.
PRE/POSTMIX A BOTTLING MAINTENANCE AND FLEET MAINTENANCE EMPLOYEES - FULL-TIME
The Company will provide each full-time employee in the above departments with a proper uniform and will also provide for the cleaning of this uniform at not cost to the employee. The employee is responsible for the normal care of this uniform and if, through employee negligence, a uniform is damaged or lost, the employee will be held financially responsible for the replacement cost.
In addition, each employee is required to wear safety boots.
The Company will provide a maximum of two (2) pairs of safety boots.
ANNEX II - LABOUR /MANAGEMENT MEETINGS
This annex will serve to confirm our understanding reached during negotiations with regard to monthly Labour/Management meetings.
It was agreed to by both parties that, when required, monthly meetings will be held to discuss and hopefully resolve issues that pertain to good relations.
It was also agreed that each party would submit an agenda at least two (2) days in advance of the meeting in order that both parties have an opportunity to research possible resolutions.
The Company and the Union agree to continue and review its cross-training requirement in the production department.
ANNEX TTT - TEMPORARY EMPLOYEES
The Company and the Union agree by way of letter of understanding that any employees who are hired as temporary employees during the periods April 15 to September 15, or December 1 to December 31, and who are continued as full-time employees beyond September 15 or December 31 as the case may be, shall have all days worked as temporary employees credited towards their probationary period.
ANNEX IV - RETROACTIVITY
The employees wage increase shall be retroactive to February 1,1993 for those who are still on payroll on May 9,1993 and shall be calculated on the number of hour worked.
ANNEX V - PENSION
The Company current pension plan shall continue as it currently is.
Effective February 1,1991 all members of the bargaining unit covered by this Agreement, shall participate in the Canadian Commercial Workers Industrial Pension Plan (C.C.W.I.P.P.). This shall be in accordance with the Participation Agreement letter signed by the Company, dated April 20,1990. In addition, the following specific arrangements shall apply.
(1)	Effective February 1,1993, the Company will contribute $.41 (forty one cents) per hour for all hours paid by the employer as outlined in Agreement Letter of April 20,1990.
(2)	Eligible employees may continue in the Company Pension Plan at their option, but a pension committee shall be set up to review all alternatives concerning funds in the Company Pension Plan, including any buy-back possibility.
(3)	The Company agrees to sign a “Participation Agreement” and supply other documents, forms, reports or information required by the Trustees of the C.C.W.I.P.P.
(4)	The contributions shall be for the purposes of providing such pension benefits for eligible employees as shall be determined form time to time, by the trustees of the "C.C.W.I.P.P.", pursuant to the terms of the Canadian Commercial Workers Industry Pension Plan and trust fund.
(5)	Contributions, along with a list of employees for whom they have been made, and the number of hours paid, will be remitted to the CCWIPP, by the Company, within the fifteen (15) days after the close of the Company’s four (4) or five (5) week accounting period. The Company agrees to pay interest and liquidated damages at a reasonable rate established by the trustees on all contributions not remitted as stipulated above.
ANNEX VI - BENEFITS
The full-time employees are covered by a group insurance. The Company added the actual coverage listed below:
Life Insurance
-	Additional coverage will be available through payroll deduction
‘Weekly Disability
-	Effective at the ratification date, the weekly disability benefit maximum will be the U.I.C. maximum benefit. Also, the employee will be covered for the total duration of 41 weeks instead of the first week to the 15th and 30th to the 41st.
Dental Plan
-	At the ratification date, the 1991 O.D.A. schedule will be in effect. Effective February 1,1994 the 1992 O.D.A. will be in effect