HAMILTON
BETWEEN:
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
COCA-COLA BOTTLING LTD. (Hamilton)
hereinafter referred to as the “Company”
SOL'SCf	Co-			
EFF.	9H		Qd Ad	125 M.
THUA.	3a			
no. or wriortts		lOO		
'nomimm | UTUItPlOVES				
- and -
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION, LOCAL 381 W,
hereinafter referred to as the “Union’
Expires December 31,1997
ha v ha i
25 1995
HAMILTON - 1 -
OO (<^()
INDEX
TITLE
PAGE
ARTICLE		
1	Purpose	4
2	Definitions	4
3	Representation	5
4	Management Rights	6
5	No Strikes or Lookouts	7
6	Union Activities	7
7	Grievances	9
8	Seniority	13
9	Hours of Work - Overtime	21
10	Night Shift Premium	25
11	Holiday Pay	26
12	Vacation	27
13	Long Service Leave	32
14	Work Clothing	32
15	Bereavement Pay	35
16	Paid Time Off	35
17	Wages	37
18	Technological Change	40
19	Safety	41
20	Work of Bargaining Unit	41
21	Health Insurance Plans	43
22	Maternity/Paternity Leave	44
23	Tool Allowance	44
24	Duration of Agreement	45
APPENDICES	Appendix “A"	46
	Appendix *B"	48
	Appendix "C	49
HAMILTON - 2
INDEX
TITLE	PAGE
LETTERS OF AGREEMENT
Sales Representative	50
Sales Equipment Serviceman	56
Long Term Disability	58
Consumer Price Index	60
Transfer to Barrie	61
C.C.W.I.P.P.	62
Christmas/New Year’s Vacation	66
Substance Abuse	68
Office Employees	69
LETTERS OF INTENT
Assigned Duties	53
HAMILTON - 3 -
HAMILTON
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
BETWEEN:
COCA-COLA BOTTLING LTD. (Hamilton) hereinafter referred to as the “Company”
- and -
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION, LOCAL 381 W,
hereinafter referred to as the “Union”
ARTICLE 1 - PURPOSE
1.01	It is the purpose of this Agreement to promote harmonious relations between the Company and its employees and to provide an amicable method of settling differences.
ARTICLE 2 - DEFINITIONS
2.01	The word "employees* wherever used in this Agreement shall mean all employees of the Company at its plant at Hamilton, save and except Office Manager, Assistant Office Manager, confidential secretary to the Sales Manager, Zone Supervisors, Sales Supervisors, Plant Supervisors and persons above the rank ol Supervisor.
2.02	The expression "outside employee” wherever used in this Agreement shall mean an employee in the category of sales representative, delivery salesman-in-charge or delivery salesman, including those outside employees performing the duties of special events man, and highway tractor trailer driver.
2.03	The expression "inside employee" wherever used in this Agreement shall mean an employee who is not an “outside employee* nor an "office employee",
2.04	An "office employee" shall mean an employee who performs duties of a clerical nature in the office of the Hamilton plant.
2.05	A “probationary employee” (including a temporary employee) shall mean an employee who has not yet completed sixty-five (65) days of actual work within a period of six (6)
HAMILTON - 4 -
consecutive months. On completion of his probationary period, such employee shall be credited with seniority from a date which is three (3) months prior to the date on which he completed his probationary period. A probationary employee shall have no rights under the seniority provisions of this Agreement and may be discharged by the Company with or without assigned cause and such discharge shall not be open to review under the grievance procedure set out in this Agreement.
2.06(a) A •	temporary employee’ shall mean an employee who is engaged by the Company
to perform work of a temporary nature during the period from April 1st to September 30th or from November 23rd io December 31st, in any year.
A temporary employee shall have no rights under the seniority provisions of this Agreement. However, if a temporary employee remains in the Company’s employ beyond September 30th or December 31st, as the case may be, or if he is accepted by the Company as a regular employee prior to that date, he shall thereupon cease to be a temporary employee and his seniority shall be determined under clause 2.04 hereof.
(b)	Notwithstanding the provisions of clause 2. M(a) preceding . the Company may, at any rime, hire an individual as a ’temporary employee" to replace a regular employee during any period of maiernity/paterniry leave granted under clause 22.01 hereof but nor in excess of ten (10) continuous months.
2.07	For the purposes of this Agreement, the masculine pronoun shall be deemed to include the feminine.
ARTICLE 3 - REPRESENTATION
3.01	The Company recognizes the Union as the exclusive bargaining agent of the employees as herein defined.
3.02	There shall be r.o discrimination against any employee because of race, colour, creed, sex, or membership in the Union.
3.03(a) Every employee (other than a temporary employee or a part-time employee) shall, on completion of his probationary period and as a condition of his continued employment become and remain a .“ember, in good standing, of the Union.
(b)	The Union agrees that it will not refuse membership to any employee without just cause. Whenever an employee is suspended or expelled from membership the Union will give the Company, in writing, the reasons for such action.
HAMILTON - 5 -
3.04(a) Every employee shah, as a condition of his continued employment, authorize the Company in writing, to deduct from each pay payable to him thereafter during the life of this Agreement, and during the life of any subsequent collective agreement containing similar provisions, such amount as may from time to time be certified in writing by the Union to the Company as being the amount of Union Dues currently payable.
(b)	Every new employee (other than a temporary employee or a part-time employee) shall, on completion of his probationary period, complete and sign an application for membership in the Union and an authorization for deduction from his pay of such amount as may at that time be certified by the Union to the Company as being the amount of the Union's standard Initiation Fee.
(c)	Authorization for deduction of the Union Initiation Fee and regular Union Dues shall be in the forms annexed hereto as Appendix "B", "Authorization for Deduction of Initiation Fee" and Appendix "C", “Irrevocable Authorization for Deduction of Union Dues”.
(d)	Initiation Fees and Union Dues deducted by the Company shall be remitted to the Financial Secretary of the Union prior to the 15th day of the month following the month in which such deductions were made, together with such detail and explanations as may be reasonably required.
3.05(a) It is recognized and mutually agreed that management may, from time to time, have occasion to interview employees with respect to their job performance and that the objective of such interviews is corrective in nature, rather than punitive. Such interviews will normally be conducted on a “one-on-one” basis. However, should it become necessary to officially warn an employee that failure to improve his record with the Company may result in disciplinary action being taken, such employee may, if he so wishes, have his Steward present at such meeting and the giving of the warning shall be confirmed to the employee by the Company in writing. A copy of such letter will be mailed to the Union's office.
(b)	After a period of eighteen (18) months free of any warning or suspension, or a period of three (3) years in any event, previous warnings or disciplinary actions will not be used in progressive steps or in arbitrations.
ARTICLE 4 - MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
4.01	The Union agrees that, subject to the restrictions imposed by law, the Company has the exclusive right to manage and operate its Plants and equipment and to carry on its business. The Union also agrees that, subject to the restrictions imposed by law or by the terms of this
HAMILTON • 6 -
Agreement, the Company has the right to decide from time to time all matters relating to the terms and conditions of employment of the employees, including the duties and conduct to be required of them. The Company agrees that it will not discipline, suspend or discharge any employee without just cause. The Company further agrees that the Union and the employees shall have the right to grieve should the Company exercise any of its functions in violation of, or inconsistent with, any provision of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 5 - NO STRIKES OR LOCKOUTS
5.01	There shall be no strikes or lockouts so long as this Agreement continues to operate. The terms "strikes” and "lockouts” will have the same definitions as those set out in the Labour Relations Act of Ontario.
ARTICLE 6 - UNION ACTIVITIES
6.01	There shah be no Union activities during working hours which interfere with the duties of any employee unless permission is first obtained from the employee's immediate supervisor. Such permission will not be unreasonably withheld and all such time off during an employee's regular working hours shall be without loss of pay.
6.02	The Company will make available for the use of the Union a bulletin board for each seniority group at each Plant whereon the Union may post such notices as it desires to bring to the attention of employees provided, however, that no such notice may be posted at places other than on these bulletin boards and further provided that no such notice may be posted until it has been signed by an Officer of the Union and by a representative of management.
6.03	From time to time during the currency of this Agreement, upon the written request of the Union, the Company will grant leaves of absence without pay to the employees named in such request to enable them to participate in Union activities. No such leave of absence shall be for a period of less than one day or more than seven ‘days except that where a leave is granted to an employee to enable him to attend a Union convention, the maximum of seven (7) days may be exceeded to the extent of necessary travel time to the place of convention and return. No more than eight (8) such leaves will be granted in any one year of the currency of this Agreement and no more than three (3) employees may be absent on such leave at any one time. If the maximum of eight (8) leaves in any year of this Agreement has been granted, the Company will consider any further request for such leave in that year on an individual basis.
6.04	From time to time during the currency of this Agreement and upon the written request of the Union, the Company will grant a leave of absence without pay to any employee for the purpose of attending to Union business. Such leave of absence shall be for a period of not less
HAMILTON - 7
than one (1) month and not more than two (2) employees shall be entitled to any such leave of absence at any one time. Where such leave is to be for a period of less than one (1) year, the Union shall specify the period to be covered. If the leave is expected lo be required for a period in excess of one (1) year, it shall be treated as an indefinite leave of absence and the Company's approval of such leave shall be considered to continue throughout the life of this Agreement. To the extent that it is practical to do so, the Company will endeavour lo arrange for the continuance of both Company and Government welfare benefits while an employee is absent on such leave.
6.05	With respect to employees granted leave of absence under the provisions of clauses 6.03 or 6.04 above, it is agreed that on the written request of the Union:
(a)	Each employee shall receive from the Company in respect of each day of absence on such leave, an amount equivalent to:
(i)	the regular straight-time hourly rate then in effect for his employment classification, multiplied by eight (8) hours or ten (10) hours, as applicable
-	LESS -
(ii)	all deductions normally withheld by law from an employee's pay and, if
applicable, the employee's contributions to the Extended Group Insurance Plan and the Employees Stock Ownership
(b)	The Union shall promptly reimburse the Company for the sum of:
(i)	the gross amount of the payment calculated as set out in (a) (i) above,
-	PLUS -
(ii)	any amount which becomes payable by the Company as a result of the Company having made to any employee a payment under the provisions of (a) above (c.g. Company contributions to the Employee Stock Ownership Plan the Extended Group Insurance Plan, Unemployment Insurance, Government Pension Plan and Health Plan, etc.).
In the event of failure of the Union to so reimburse the Company, all payments to employees under (a) above shall immediately cease.
(c)	In consideration of the agreement of the Company to make payments as provided above, the Union agrees to indemnify the Company and save it harmless from and against any and all claims, payments, and costs of any kind which it may receive, make or suffer, directly
HAMILTON - 8
or indirectly, through having agreed to make and having made such payments, deductions and contributions or by reason of any imputed employment relationship which might be alleged to exist between such employee and the Company by reason of the making of such payments.
6.06	The granting of any leave of absence under clauses 6.03 or 6.04 may be refused by the Company when the granting of the same would bo unreasonable having regard lo the requirements of operations.
6.07(a) Every Union Steward and every officer of the Union who is an employee shall be allowed such time off as may be necessary to enable him to attend those appointments with management personnel at which his presence is required under the provisions of Article 7 and every employee who is a necessary witness at a grievance meeting or at a grievance arbitration hearing established under Article 7 shall be allowed such time off as, may be necessary to enable him lo give evidence al such hearing.
(b)	Should a Union Steward be scheduled lo be on duty during the time in which a regularly scheduled meeting of the general membership of the Union is to be held, such Steward shall (provided his request is made at least 24 hours in advance) be allowed such time off work as may be reasonably required in the circumstances to permit him to attend such meeting.
(c)	The allowing of time off under the provisions of this clause 6.07 shall be subject to the employee having obtained permission to leave his work from his Supervisor. All such time off during an employee’s regular working hours shall be without loss of pay, provided, however, that the Company may discontinue paying for such lime off, if in its opinion the privilege of requesting such time off is being abused.
6.08	At the request of the Union, the Company will grant lime off, without loss of pay during the employee’s regular working hours, to one (I) employee from the Inside seniority list, one (1) employee from the Outside seniority list, and one (I) employee from the membership at lurje covered by this Collective Agreement lo allow them to be members of tltc Union Negotiating Committee and to enable them lo attend arranged meetings with Company representatives or with a Conciliation Officer for the purpose of negotiating a renewal of this Collective Agreement. The allowing of any such time off shall, however, be subject to the employee having obtained permission to leave his work from his Supervisor.
ARTICLE 7 - GRIEVANCES
7.01	The Union Stewards herein referred to shall be employees of the Company and shall not
HAMILTON - 9
be more than:
Five (5) in number
The Union will notify the Company in writing of the names of such Stewards and may also notify the Company of the names of not more than an equal number of additional employees at each location who may serve as alternate Stewards in the absence from work of a regular Steward. The Company will not recognize any individual as a Steward until it has received such notification from the Union.
7.02(a) In this Agreement a “grievance" shall consist only of a difference concerning the interpretation, application, administration or alleged violation of any provision of this Agreement, including any question as to whether a matter is arbitrable.
(b)	Should any complaint or misunderstanding arise which is not a “grievance” as defined above and if the matter is not resolved with reasonable promptness, it may be taken up through the procedure provided herein for the hearing of grievances; it being understood and agreed, however, that such a mailer shall not, under any circumstances, be taken to arbitration.
(c)	If any question arises as to whether a particular difference is or is not a grievance within the meaning of this Agreement, that question may be taken up through the grievance procedure and determined, if necessary, by arbitration.
(d)	There shall be an earnest effort on the part of the employees and both parties to this Agreement to deal with complaints and grievances promptly through the procedure provided below.
7.03 INDIVIDUAL GRIEVANCE
An employee who has a complaint or a grievance will ordinarily discuss the matter with his immediate supervisor and if the matter is not resolved in that discussion, he may refer the question to his Steward for consideration. However, should the nature of the complaint or grievance be such that the employee prefers lo refer it to his Steward first, then he may do so.
Step 1
If a complaint or grievance is referred by an employee to his Steward and if the Steward considers that there may be a reasonable basis for the complaint or grievance, the employee and the Steward may refer the matter orally or in writing lo the appropriate management representative.
HAMILTON - 10 -
Step 2
If the complaint or grievance remains unsettled for three (3) working days after the time of its presentation at Step I, it may, within a further three (3) working days be referred in writing at Step 2, in sufficient detail lo define the issue, lo the appropriate management representative (or his designate).
Step 3
If the complaint or grievance remains unsettled for three (3) working days after its presentation at Step 2, it may, within five (5) working days after the hearing at Step 2 be referred in writing at Step 3 in sufficient detail to define the issue, to the appropriate management representative. Within five (5) working days of the submission of a complaint or grievance at Step 3 the management representative (and/or such other persons, up to two (2) in number, as he may designate) shall meet with the employee, his Steward and a full-time representative' of the Union (and/or such other persons, up to iwo (2) in number, as he may designate) lo discuss the matter. The Company’s decision will be given in writing, with sufficient explanations, lo the employee and the Union within three (3) working days after such meeting.
7.04	COLLECTIVE GRIEVANCE
Should a group of two (2) or more employees who have a complaint or grievance based lipon the same provision or provisions of this Agreement or upon similar facts, desire to have such matter dealt with collectively rather than as individual complaints or grievances, the:; may, provided it is done with reasonable promptness, present such matter in writing signed by each such aggrieved employee to the appropriate management representative, setting out sufficient detail lo define the issue. An opportunity for oral discussion between the officials of the Union (not exceeding three (3) in number) and representatives of management (not exceeding three (3) in number) will be given and failing agreement, the Company shall deliver to the Union a reply in writing within ten working days after receipt of the written submission.
7.05	COMPANY/UNION GRIEVANCE
Should any grievance or complaint arise directly between the Company and the Union it should be dealt with as follows: it may, provided it is done with reasonable promptness, be presented in writing by either of such parties to the other, setting out sufficient detail to define the issue. An opportunity for oral discussion between the officials of the union (not exceeding three (3) in number) and representatives of management (not exceeding three (3) in number) will be given and, failing agreement, the party to whom such matter was submitted shall deliver to the other party a reply in writing to such submission within ten (10) working days after the receipt of such submission.
HAMILTON - 11 -
7.06	SUSPENSION OR DISCHARGE
(a)	Wien an employee is to be suspended or discharged he may, if he so wishes, have his Steward present for such meeting and the reasons for such suspension or discharge will be given. In any event, an employee who is suspended or discharged will be given an opportunity to discuss the matter with his Steward before leaving the Company’s premises.
Such suspension or discharge shall be confirmed to the employee by the Company in writing and a copy of such letter will be mailed to the Union’s office.
(b)	Any grievance relating to the suspension or discharge of any employee shall be submitted directly at Step 3 of the Individual Grievance Procedure within eight (8) working days of such suspension or discharge and not otherwise. In the event that it should be decided that the suspension or discharge of any employee is without just cause, the Company shall reinstate such employee and pay full compensation at the employee’s regular hourly rate for time lost (to a maximum of forty (40) hours per week) after written complaint against such suspension or discharge has been received by the Company. Upon such reinstatement, there shall be deemed to have been no break in such employee's service with the Company.
7.07	APPROPRIATE MANAGEMENT REPRESENTATIVE
The "appropriate management representative” as referred to in the grievance procedures shall be as follows:
Step 1	Supervisor
Step 2	Department Manager
Step 3	General Stiles Manager
7.08	GENERAL
Should any employee, employees, the Union or the Company take advantage of the procedure provided herein for the hearing of complaints and grievances, each step in such procedure (up to and including, in the case of a grievance only, the request for appointment of an arbitrator) required to effect a final disposition of the matter shall be taken by such employee, employees, the Union or the Company, as the case may be, within the time limits set forth in this Agreement or the matter shall be deemed to have been abandoned. In determining such time limits, no account shall be taken of the day on which the complaint or grievance was presented and any lime limit fixed by this Agreement may be extended by written agreement of the Company and the Union. Saturdays, Sundays, observed holidays and scheduled days off shall not count as “working days” as referred to in this Article 7.
The first (1st) Monday of each month shall he reserved to review Step 3 grievances.
HAMILTON - 12 -
7.09	ARBITRATION
Should any grievance (as defined in clause 7.02(a) hereof) arise which is not satisfactorily determined under the foregoing provisions, and should either the Union or the Company desire to carry the matter further, the matter shall then, by notice in writing given to the other party within ten (10) working days from the giving of the latest decision referred to above, be referred either by the Company or the Union to arbitration as provided for in Appendix “A” hereto. It is understood and agreed that complaints and misunderstandings as referred to in clause 7.02(b) hereof, shall not be arbitrable.
ARTICLE 8 - SENIORITY
8.01(a) Seniority of an employee shall mean the length of his unbroken service with the Company in the Bargaining Unit covered by this Agreement, except as provided in clauses 8.01(b) and (c) below.
<b) It is agreed that clause 8.01(a) above shall not be applied to alter any seniority date which has been established prior to the effective date of this Agreement.
(c)	An employee who is or has been transferred from the Bargaining Unit to a job with the Company outside the Bargaining Unit for a period in excess of six (6) months may then return to the Unit only to fill a vacancy which would otherwise be filled by a new hire.
In such a case, the employee’s seniority date would be the date on which he re-entered the Unit.
(d)	It is further agreed that, in the case of a temporary promotion to the position of Zone Supervisor (as replacement for an absent Zone Supervisor, or for training or similar purposes), the provisions of the preceding clause 8.01(c) shall not apply. Rather, such employee shall continue to pay Union Dues and to accumulate seniority during his temporary absence from the Bargaining Unit and shall be paid at the rate of one-fifth (l/5th) of the weekly wage rate of a Sales Representative for each day worked as a Zone Supervisor.
8.02	For the purposes of this Article 8, inside employees, outside employees and office employees shall be considered as separate seniority groups.
8.03	Separate seniority lists shall be maintained by the Company for each of the seniority groups referred to in clause 8.02 above, showing the name and seniority date of each employee who has acquired seniority under this Agreement. If two or more employees arc hired on the same day, the times of hiring will determine their seniority ranking.
These lists will be brought up to date every three (3) months and, at each revision, will
HAMILTON - 13 -
be posted on the Union bulletin board for a period of five (5) working days. During that interval, any employee whose name appears on the list, for the first time may question his seniority ranking if he is in disagreement with it. IT no written complaint is received by the Company within five (5) working days of lire posting of a seniority list, the revisions contained in that list shall be deemed to be correct by all concerned.
A copy of each updated list will be mailed to the Union Office and a copy given to the Local Union President.
8.04	An employee’s service with the Company shall be broken if that employee:
(a)	quits,
(b)	is laid off for a period of eighteen (18) months or more,
(c)	is discharged and is not reinstated,
(d)	fails to return to work on the expiration of any period of leave granted by the Company unless excused by the Company,
(e)	is absent from work for more than three (3) consecutive working days without having notified the Company and received permission to be absent, which permission shall not be unreasonably withheld,
(0 otherwise ceases to be employed by the Company.
8.05	In making transfers, promotions, demotions, layoffs, and recalls from layoffs within a seniority group, seniority shall govern, provided the employee can satisfactorily fulfill the normal requirements of the job.
8.06	JOB POSTLNG
(a)	When a cegu hr fit l 1-time. job in the Inside or Outside seniority group becomes meant, the Company shall post a notice, of such job vacancy on the Union bulletin board for a period of three (3) working days. During that period, any regular employee in the Inside or Outside seniority group may make written application for the vacant job and all such applications will receive consideration in accordance with the provisions of Clause 8.05,
It is understood and agreed by the parties that an employee wishing to transfer between seniority groups under these arrangements must be capable of satisfactorily perforating the work so made available to him. In keeping with that understanding, it is agreed that a six (6)
HAMILTON - 14 -
month trial period shall apply from the date of transfer during which the transfer may be reversed, if so requested by the employee or by the Company, In such case, the reverting employee may displace the employee who replaced him in his previous position.
(b)	The Company will select the successful applicant within five (5) working days of the close of the posting period and will within a further three (3) days, advise the employees in the seniority group concerned of its decision by posting that information on the Union bulletin board.
(c)	The first two job vacancies which may be created as a result of the selection of an employee under the provisions of 8.06(a) and (b) hereof shall also be posted in accordance with the provisions of those paragraphs.
<d) If an employee was absent on vacation or an approved leave of absence not weeding eight (S) weeks at the rime of posting of a job for which he is qualified, he may apply for consideration for that job within five (5) days of his return to work, and if accepted by the Company, he shall then displace any employee previously selected io fill such vacancy.
(e)	Any job vacancy (or vacancies) which may be created as a result of the selection of an employee to fill a job vacancy posted under the provisions of 8.06(c) may be filled by the Company in accordance with the provisions of clause 8.05 hereof, but posting of such ensuing vacancy (or vacancies) shall not be required.
(f)	In the event that the Company has no employee in a seniority group who can satisfactorily fulfill the normal requirements of a job vacancy in that seniority group, and if there is, at that time, no qualified employee on layoff from any other seniority group covered by this Agreement who wishes to exercise the right of temporary transfer provided for in clause 8.09(d) hereof, the Company may hire a new employee to fill such vacancy. The Company may fill any vacancy, temporarily, pending completion of procedures set out herein.
(g)	When an employee has received a change of job or shift assignment under the provisions of this clause 8.06, he shall not be entitled to apply for a posted vacancy during the following six (6) months, unless such job vacancy is in a Wage Bracket higher than his own.
(h)	Wiile the intent of this clause is to provide employees with a means of expressing personal preference in the assignment of their regular duties, it is understood and agreed that it shah remain the sole responsibility of the Company to determine the number of experienced personnel required on any job or shift.
HAMILTON - 15 -
(i)	A copy of each job posting and notice of successful applicant will be given to the Local Union and copies of same will also be mailed to the Union Office.
8.07(a) It is understood and agreed that the provisions of clause 8.06 shall apply only in the case of “permanent” vacancies. However, when there is a temporary vacancy in a seniority group (including vacancies created by the addition of temporary shifts), and the Company expects such work to be available for a period in excess of five (5) working days, the Company shall, in so far as the requirements and efficiency of operations will permit, make such temporary assignment available to qualified employees on a seniority basis. For this purpose, seniority shall be recognized by Job Classification, within the following departmental groupings:
Inside Employees Shippers & Receivers Materials Handling Garage
Sales Equipment Service
Outside Employees Sales Representatives
Delivery Salesmen and Delivery Salesmen-in-Charge Transport Drivers
On completion of such a temporary assignment, the affected employee will revert to his regular job and/or shift, provided such work is available for him, or otherwise he shall be reassigned having regard to his seniority and the provisions of this Agreement.
While the intent of this clause is to provide employees with a means of expressing personal preference for temporary assignments of reasonable duration, it is understood and agreed that it shall remain the sole responsibility of the Company to determine the number of experienced personnel required on any job or shift.
In the event that a position which has been filled on a temporary basis should continue to be required for a period in excess of six (6) months, such position will thereupon be considered as a “permanent” position and shall then be posted as provided for in clause 8.06 hereof.
Notwithstanding anything herein contained, it is agreed that in making any temporary promotion in the outside seniority group the Company will, whenever practical, endeavour to give due consideration to the relative seniority of (he available and qualified employees.
HAMILTON - 16-
(b) When in the judgement of the Company it is practical, appropriate and timely to do so, the Company will endeavour to make available to employees who are likely to be candidates for a promotion (and who would otherwise be qualified for such promotion) or who are likely to be subject to layoff, the opportunity of receiving such training as may be necessary to enable them to satisfactorily perform the work so made available to them. An employee who has received such training shall not then be entitled to refuse an assignment to the position for which he has been trained.
8.08	DEMOTIONS
If, as the direct result of a reduction in the work force, one or more demotions should become necessary, it is agreed that the provisions of clause 8.05 hereof shall be observed. It is understood, however, that this clause 8.08 shall not apply in the case of an employee who is demoted as a result of his misconduct or his inability to satisfactorily perform the work required; it being further understood, however, that if within three (3) months of receiving a promotion an employee requests to be relieved of his new responsibilities or is demoted due to his inability to satisfactorily perform such new duties, he shall be permitted to revert to his former position and in so doing may displace the employee who succeeded him in that position.
8.09	LAYOFFS
Whenever layoffs in a seniority group arc necessary, they shall be accomplished as follows: (a) The Company shall first layoff temporary employees and then probationary employees, if any, in that seniority group. If further reduction of staff is required, the Company shall then lay off regular employees in accordance with the provisions of clause 8.05 hereof, it being understood that, in this instance, seniority is reversed (i.e. the most junior man will be the first laid oft). If any regular employee is to be laid off for a period of more than five (5) working days, he shall receive five (5) days written notice of such layoff and the Union shall be provided with a copy of same. Layoff notices will expire after three (3) months.
It is mutually agreed that for the purposes of administration of the foregoing paragraph, the term “in accordance with the provisions of clause 8.05“ shall mean that the following procedure will be observed:
(i)	any regular employee fur whom work is not available may displace the least senior employee within the same shift and department, providing he has greater seniority
(ii)	the employee displaced In (i) above may then displace the least senior employee whose job he is capable of satisfactorily performing within the same shift,
HAMILTON - 17 -
providing he has greater seniority.
(i i i) the employee displaced in (ii) above may then displace the least senior employee within his seniority group whose job he is capable of satisfactorily performing.
For this purpose, the expression “department”, as used in (i) above, shall be defined by reference to the following departmental groupings:
Inside Employees	Office Employees
Shippers & Receivers Materials Handling Garage
Sales Equipment Service
Outside Employees
Sales Representatives
Delivery Salesmen and Delivery Sa!csmcn-in-Chargc Transport Drivers
A regular employee may displace a less senior employee in accordance with points (i), (ii) and (iii) above only if such employee can satisfactorily fulfill the normal requirements of the job occupied by the less senior employee.
(b) An employee having seniority standing in the Inside or Outside seniority group who is laid offfor more than one (1) working day shall have the option of:
(i)	displacing a temporary or probationary employee in the Inside or Outside seniority group, or
(ii)	if there are no temporary or probationary employees to be displaced, of displacing the most junior employee in the Inside or Outside seniority group,
provided that such employee submits a written request for such temporary transfer to another inside or Outside seniority group and is capable ofsal,s factorily performing the work so made available to him. It is understood that junior employees shall be laid off in sufficient numbers to permit the exercising of this option and that the resulting temporary transfer of more senior employees shall not become effective until the commencement of the next regular day of work scheduled for the employee to be displaced. The transferred employee will receive the rate of pay of the job to which he is assigned.
Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions, if the Company is able to arrange the transfer
HAMILTON - 18 -
between seniority groups without the one (I) day waiting period, it shall do so.
(c)	'An employee exercising this option shall not acquire seniority in the group to which he is transferred, but shall retain his recall rights in his original seniority group, in the event of a layoff, the employee would he able to exercise his seniority for any vacant non-posted positions.
(d)	The Company shall maintain a list of employees (other than probationary or temporary employees) laid off by it from each seniority group within the prior eighteen (18) months and such list shall show the seniority of such employees. A copy of the daily layoff list will be provided to the local plant President or Chairman of the Union. When workers are required for a seniority group, the layoff list for that seniority group will be examined and, to the extent of the number of jobs available, the employees listed therein will be recalled from transfer or layoff in accordance with the provisions of clause 8.05 hereof. If, following such recalls, there is still a deficiency of workers in the Inside or Outside seniority groups, then employees on the layoff list from the other (Inside or Outside) seniority group shall be offered, in seniority order, the option of transferring temporarily to the vacant position. Such temporary transfers shall be subject to the provisions of clause 8.09(c) hereof.
(e)	If, at the time of recall, an employee is not in the active service of the Company, a notice shall be sent to him by registered mail addressed to the last address which he shall have recorded with the Company. Such notice shall indicate the job for which the individual is considered qualified, the proposed time and place of hiring (which shall not be less than seven (7) working days from the date of mailing of such notice by the Company) and shall state that if the individual desires to be rehired for such job he shall notify the Company in writing within five (5) working days of the mailing of such notice by the Company. A copy of each such notice shall be mailed to the Union. The individuals to whom such notices are sent and who report ready for work at the time and place of hiring as set out in such notices, shall, if they are then so qualified to fill the jobs available, be rehired. The Company shall not be required, however, to rehire at any time any individual who shall have failed to notify the Company of his desire to be rehired or who shall have failed to report for rehiring in accordance with and at the time stated in any such notice sent to him. The Company shall be entitled to fill any jobs available on a temporary basis pending rehiring of those having preferential rights for rehiring as hereinbefore set out. On such rehiring there shall be deemed to have been no break in such employee’s continuous service.
In the event that an employee having seniority standing should be laid-off for a period in excess of five (5) working days, such employee may apply for temporary transfer to another plant at which the Collective Bargaining Agreement contains provisions identical to this clause
HAMILTON - 19 -
8.09(e). If there is then a vacancy at the requested plant, or a position which is then held by a part-time, temporary or probationary employee, the laid-off employee shall, if he is capable of satisfactorily performing the work which would so l>c inadc available to him, be temporarily assigned to duty at such other plant (and. in so doing, may displace an employee there who does not hold seniority rights).
An employee exercising this option shall not acquire seniority in the group to which he is temporarily assigned, but shall retain his recall rights in his original seniority group.
(f)	Notwithstanding anything herein contained it is agreed that if an outside employee has not presented himself for assignment of the day's work prior to the time his shift is scheduled to commence he shall be considered to be unavailable for work on that shift and in such circumstances the layoff provisions set out above shall have no application,
(8) It is mutually agreed that an employee who would otherwise be on layoff may request that part or all of such layoff period be regarded as annual vacation time and be paid accordingly. The Company will honour such requests, provided that the employee has sufficient unused vacation entitlement to accommodate the request.
8. 10 Bonnfidc illness, or disability resulting from an accident, shall not normally be considered cause for discharge. However, if an employee has been continuously absent from work due to disability for a period of thirty (30) months or more the Company may then consider that such employee's services arc terminated and his name shall be removed from the seniority list on the grounds that he is no longer an active employee. In making such a determination the Company shall give due consideration to the latest medical evidence available with respect to the anticipated further duration of such employee’s disability.
8.11	If, after recovery from an at work accident or illness accepted by the Workers’ Compensation Board, an employee is unable to perform his former duties, and if there is, at that time, a regular job in his seniority group which is either vacant or held by an employee having less seniority, such employee shall, if he is capable of satisfactorily performing the required duties, bo transferred to such position. If there is no regular job within his seniority group which he is capable of satisfactorily performing, the Company will consider a request for transfer to the other seniority group at his Plant if there is, at that time, a regular job which is vacant and ii he is capable of satisfactorily performing the duties required.
8.12	An employee covered by this Agreement who wishes to transfer to another Bargaining Unit in Ontario at which this Union has this same reciprocal provision, may notify the Company in writing of his desire lo do so. When, following completion of the job posting
HAMILTON - 20 -
procedure, a vacancy exists at such desired new location, the employee requesting the transfer shall be offered the opportunity of filling the vacancy in preference to a new hire. On assignment to the new location, the employee will be credited with his original seniority date; provided, however, that he will not be permitted to exercise full seniority under the job posting procedure during the first six (6) months of his employment at the new location. For purposes of application of this provision, employees will be classed as "inside employees’, or "outside employees', or *office employees", and it is understood that in exercising the privileges of this provision the employee must remain within such current classification. It is also agreed that an employee wishing to accept a transfer under these provisions must do so within five (5) days of receiving the job offer and must report for duty at the new location within sixty (60) days of the job offer or such job offer may be withdrawn by the Company.
ARTICLE 9 - HOURS OF WORK - OVERTIME
9.01	For the purposes of this Agreement, the work week shall commence at midnight Saturday-Sunday and all work performed in a shift or other similar work period (including any extension thereof) shall be deemed to have been performed in the same day in which that shift or other similar work period commenced.
9.02	For the purposes of this Agreement, time worked shall be calculated in units of fifteen (15) minutes and periods of work of less than fifteen (15) minutes per day shall, be disregarded.
9.03ftrj The Company will discuss with local Union officers the specific details of any planned four (4) day by ten (10) hour work shifts prior to introducing such shifts. It is understood and agreed that if such shifts are introduced, they will apply to all regular bargaining unit employees, except office employees.
(b)	For the purposes of this Agreement, the normal work periods of employees (other
than those employees whose scheduled forty (40) hour work week includes a Saturday and/or Sunday) shall consist of five (5) consecutive eight (8) hour days or four (4) consecutive ten (10) hour days, Monday to Friday inclusive.
9.04	Every Inside and Outside employee shall he paid overtime at the rate of one and one-hap (1-1(2) times his hourly rate for all work performed by him and required by the Company in mess of his regular eight (8) or ten (10) hour shift, as the case may be.
Every office employee shall he paid overtime at the rare of one and one-half(I-l 12) times his hourly rate for all work performed by him and required by the Company in excess of his regular seven and one-half (7-1/2) hour shift.
HAMILTON - 21
9.05 Every employee, other than those whose scheduled forty (40) hour work week includes Saturday and/or Sunday, shall be paid at the rate of one and one-half (1-1/2) times his hourly rate for all work performed by him and required by the Company on a Saturday and at the rate of two (2) times his hourly rate for all work performed by him and required by the Company on a Sunday.
9.00 Every regular employee who is scheduled to work on a Saturday and/or Sunday as part of his forty (40) hour work week shall, while so scheduled, be paid a premium as shown below:
For Saturday	a 1.25
For Sunday	S 1.50
for work performed by him and required by Ihc Company, unless he is entitled under the other provisions of this Article to be paid at the rate of one and one-half (1*1/2) or two (2) times his hourly rate, as the case may be, for work so performed by him and required by the Company. For the purposes of this Agreement, such premiums shall not be considered as forming part of an employee’s hourly rate.
9.07	Every regular employee who is scheduled to work on a Saturday and/or Sunday as purr of his forty (40) hour work week shall be paid at the rate of one and one-half (I-1/2) times his hourly rate for all work performed by him and required by the Company on the first of his two (2) weekly scheduled days off and at the rate of two (2) times his hourly rate for all work performed by him and required by the Company on the second of his two (2) weekly scheduled days off.
9.08(a) Every employee, other than those employed as Stationary Engineers, shall be paid at the rate of two (2) times his hourly rate for all work performed by him and required by the Company on a day which is observed as a paid holiday under the provisions of Article 11 hereof.
(b) A person employed as a stationary engineer shall be paid at the rate of two (2) times his hourly rate for all work performed by him and required by the Company on a day on which one of the paid holidays named in Article 11 hereof actually falls (as opposed to the day on which it is observed by the Company).
9.09	Where it is anticipated that any employee will perform additional work required by the Company for a period of one-half (1/2) hour or more immediately following his normal work period of eight (8)or ten (10) hours, as the case may he, he shall be granted a rest period of
HAMILTON - 22 -
fifteen (15) minutes, with pay, before commencing such additional work.
9.10	Where any period of additional work referred to in clause 9.09 hereof will continue for more than two (2) consecutive hours, the employee shall, after having worked for two (2) hours, be given a break of one-half (1/2) hour, without pay, to enable him to have a meal. If he shall not have had at least twenty-four (24) hours’ notice that such additional work would be required, the Company shall provide the meal, up to a value of five dollars ($5.00), plus tax. without charge to the employee. If such additional work continues for more than two (2) consecutive hours following resumption of work after the meal break, the employee shall be granted an additional rest period of fifteen (15) minutes, with pay.
9.11	Every employee will be allowed one (I) paid rest period of fifteen (IS) minutes during each one-half (1/2) shift. Rest periods will be arranged as near the mid-point of each one-half (1/2) shift as possible.
9.12	The Company will endeavour, in so far as the requirements and efficiency of operations will permit, to assign planned overtime work (i.c. overtime scheduled at least twenty-four (24) hours in advance, or on a Saturday and/or Sunday) on the following basis:
(i)	Such opportunity will first be made available on a seniority basis to those regular employees who normally perform the work on which such overtime is required, and
(ii)	in the event that the Company’s needs cannot be entirely satisfied in that manner, the overtime opportunity will then be made available on a seniority basis to other hourly rated employees in the same seniority group who are capable of satisfactorily performing the work required.
It is further agreed that overtime will not normally be assigned to temporary or probationary employees while regular employees in the appropriate seniority group are willing to perform such overtime and are capable of satisfactorily performing the work required.
In the case of unscheduled overtime, other than overtime to be performed as a continuation of work in process, the Company will endeavour, in so far as the requirements and efficiency of operations will permit, to make such overtime available on a seniority basis to employees in the appropriate seniority group who are available on the Company’s premises at the time such overtime is to commence and who are capable of satisfactorily performing the work required. It is further agreed that overtime will not normally be assigned to temporary or probationary employees while regular employees in the appropriate seniority group arc available on the Company’s premises at the time such overtime is to commence who are
HAMILTON - 23 -
willing to perform such overtime and are capable of satisfactorily performing the work required.
It is understood that to facilitate the distribution of overtime work, employees may be required to indicate their desire for such assignments by signing an “employees available for overtime" list and that repeated refusal of overtime work after having indicated availability for such assignments may result in that employee being excluded from further consideration under these provisions. It is further understood that in the event that ail overtime requirements cannot be tilled on a voluntary basis, such work may then be assigned (subject to applicable law) on a reverse-seniority basis to those employees in the appropriate seniority group who are capable of satisfactorily performing the work required.
It is agreed that the Company will not normally offer opportunities for overtime work if doing so may reasonably be expected to result in an employee working more than sixteen (16) consecutive hours. However, in the event that an employee should work for more than sixteen (16) consecutive hours (excluding unpaid meal breaks), he shall not be considered available for any assignment until eight (8) hours have elapsed from the completion of the overtime assignment. In such an event, the Company will make every reasonable effort to reschedule, by up to two (2) hours, the start time of the employee’s next regularly scheduled shift so that he will still have the opportunity to work a regular eight (8) hour shift.
9.13	Where an employee has left the Company’s Plant on completion of his day’s work and is then called by the Company and requested to return to work at a time before the commencement of his next schedule day’s work, such request shall constitute a ’’cail-oui". An employee reporting for work on a “call-out" shall be entitled to be paid for work performed by him outside his scheduled working hours at the rate of one and one-half (1V4) times his hourly rate or four (4) hours’ work at his hourly rate, whichever is greater.
9.14	An employee who reports for work at his scheduled time, not having been previously notified to the contrary, shall be entitled to a minimum of four (4) hours pay at the rate of pay to which he would have been entitled for the work he had been scheduled to perform on that day, but it is agreed that he shall perform any suitable work for this four (4) hour period, if so required. However, it shell remain the responsibility of an employee who has been absent from work to check with the Company to determine if work is available before returning and failure to do so shall result in his being considered as unavailable for work on that shift. If an employee is absent from work with approval on a Friday, it will be presumed that he will be available for work on the following Monday, unless he advises the Company to the contrary. Therefore, should such an employee be unable to report by Monday, he must notify the Company to that effect prior to his scheduled starting time.
HAMILTON - 24 -
9.15	The system of "tied" shifts (as contrasted with 'rotating” or "alternating” shifts) which is currently in effect will not be discontinued during the life of this Agreement without prior consultation with the Union; provided, however, that discussions with a view to possible modification of the system to accommodate any specific problems which arise may be initiated by either party. Should such discussions fail to produce agreement between the parties, then the Company may initiate changes only to the extent that they are necessary to satisfy the needs of the business and the requirements and efficiency of operations.
It is understood and agreed that this undertaking with respect to the method of staffing shifts (i.e. "fixed” vs. “rotating") docs not in any way limit the Company’s right to establish or discontinue shifts per se, or to modify the starting or stopping time of shifts, in order to satisfy the needs of the business and the requirements and efficiency of operations.
The Company will endeavour, insofar as it reasonably can, to give twenty-four (24) hours notice of a change in shift starting time to those employees who will be directly affected by such change.
ARTICLE 10 - NIGHT SHIFT PREMIUM
10.01	Every hourly-rated employee shall be paid a night shift premium of one dollar ($1.00) per hour for work performed by him and required by the Company after four (4:00) p.m. in a day and before seven-thirty (7:30) a.m. in the following day in the case of Inside employees and after four-thirty (4:30) p.m. in a day and before seven (7:00) a.m. tri' the following day in the case of Outside and Office employees provided, however, that such premiums shall not be paid for any time worked in respect of which overtime premium is payable. For the purposes of this Agreement, such night shift premium shall not be considered as forming part of an employee's hourly rate. In ihe event of the introduction of four (4) by ten (10) work weeks, the above night shift hours will be revised accordingly.
HAMILTON - 25 -
ARTICLE HOLIDAY PAY
11.01(a) The expression "holiday” wherever used in this Agreement, shall mean any one of the following:
DAY OP NEW YEAR'S EVE
NEW YEAR’S DAY
DAY AFTER NEW YEAR'S DAY
GOOD FRIDAY
VICTORIA DAY
DOMINION DAY
CIVIC HOLIDAY
LABOUR DAY
THANKSGIVING DAY
DAY BEFORE CHRISTMAS
CHRISTMAS DAY
BOXING DAY
(b)	If, during the life of this Agreement, a holiday should be declared by government
which is not listed above and which is to be generally observed in the Province of Ontario, such holiday shall be observed and paid by the Company under the same terms and conditions as apply to the holidays which are listed above.
11.02	Should any of the holidays mentioned above fall on a Saturday or on a Sunday, the regular working day which is closest thereto will normally be designated as the holiday. If, however, any question should arise as to the day in the year to be designated as any one of the holidays mentioned above, the Company shall decide the question for purposes of this Agreement. If an employee should be scheduled to have one of his regular days off on a day designated as a day to be observed as a holiday, that employee shall be allowed another day off with pay in lieu of the holiday with pay and, for purposes of this Agreement, such lieu day will be considered as his “holiday”.
11.03	Each employee who has completed his probationary period shall receive holiday pay for each such holiday, provided that lie is at work on his last regular workday before the holiday and his first regular workday after the holiday. An employee’s holiday pay for each such holiday, shall be an amount equal to his regular hourly rate, multiplied by
■	8 hours if scheduled for a 5 x 8 hour work week
■	10 hours if scheduled for a 4 x 10 hour work week
■	7*1/2 hours for office employees
HAMILTON - 26 -
If, in the week in which the holiday falls, an employee works in two' (2) different wage classifications, he will be paid for the holiday at the wage rate in effect for the classification in which he works on the day following the holiday.
11.04	An employee who was absent on his last regular workday before and/or his first regular workday after the holiday will qualify for holiday pay (as set out in clause 11.03 above) if such absence:
(a)	is paid for under the provisions of clause 15.01 hereof (Bereavement Pay), or
(b)	is paid for under the provisions of clause 16.01 hereof (pay for Jury or Witness Duty), or
(c)	has been approved by the Company, or
(d)	is due to a layoff which commenced not more, than five (5) working days prior to
the holiday	or on the first work day after the holiday, provided, however, that such holiday
pay shall not be payable if the employee is eligible for full or partial payment for the day on which the holiday is observed under any other clause of this Agreement or from any plan or fend to which the Company contributes (e.g. the Company’s Extended Group Insurance Ran, Workers' Compensation. Unemployment Insurance, Government Pension Plan, etc.).
ARTICLE 12 - VACATION
12.01	Every employee who, during the life of this Agreement, completes a year of continuous employment with the Company, will qualify for a vacation with pay, unless he has already been granted and has taken a vacation with pay in respect of that year of employment.
12.02	The length of vacation lo which each employee will be entitled will be governed by the total length of his continuous service with the Company, and will be determined from the schedule in clause 12.04 below.
12.03	The amount of pay to which each employee will be entitled in respect of his vacation will be determined in accordance with clause 12.04 below. The earnings on which the calculation will be based shall be total earnings from the Company for the year of service in respect of which the vacation is granted including any premium pay (overtime, night shift, etc.) and pay for time not worked (vacation, observed holidays, sick pay, etc.).
HAMILTON - 27 •
12.04	Schedule of Vacation With Pay Entitlement During the Life of this Agreement
Length of Service	Length ° < Vacation	% of Earnings Payable
1 but less than 5 yrs.	2 weeks	496
5 but less than 10 yrs.	3 weeks	6%
10 but less than 20 yrs.	4 weeks	896
20 but less than 30 yrs.	5 weeks	10%
After 30 years’ service	6 weeks	12%
12.05	If an employee’s vacation pay calculated on the basis of his regular hourly rate, multiplied by forty (40) hours for each week of vacation to be taken would be greater than the amount to which he would be entitled under clause 12.04 above, then he will be paid the greater amount; provided, however, that if the employee has worked in more than one Wage Bracket during the preceding year, the calculation shall be made using the then current rate for the lowest such Wage Bracket: and provided further that if, during the year of service in respect of which the vacation is granted, the employee has been absent from work (in the aggregate) for more than twenty-five (25) working days due to layoff, or for more than ninety (90) working days for any other reason other than an absence on Workers' Compensation), then vacation pay shall be calculated only on the percentage basis set out in clause 12.04 above. If, during any year of service, an employee has been absent for more than nine:: (90) working days, (other than absence on Workers' Compensation) he may, if he so wishes (but only to the extent permitted by law) waive one or more weeks of his vacation entitlement for that year without reduction in the percentage basis (only) vacation pay for which he qualities.
12.06	For the purposes of this Article 12, a week shall mean a period of seven (7) consecutive days, including Saturdays. Sundays, and holidays falling within the period of vacation.
12.07	Should one or more holidays named in clause 1 1.01 hereof fall within the period of an employee’s vacation he may, not later than 15 days before such vacation is lo commence, request an additional day off, with pay, in lieu of each such holiday. Such lieu days will be granted during the months of January, February, March, April, October, or November only, but, subject thereto, the Company will endeavour to arrange for the day(s) off at a time suitable to the employee. If an employee does not so elect time off in lieu of the holiday, then his pay for the week of vacation containing such holiday(s) shall be increased by twenty percent (20%) for each such holiday.
HAMILTON • 28 •
12.08 Every employee will be paid, immediately prior to his going on vacation, the vacation pay to which he is entitled. If an employee should be granted his vacation prior to his anniversary date, then
(i)	if he has completed five (5) or more years of service, his vacation pay will be based on his regular straight-lime rale of earnings, or
(ii)	if he has not yet completed five (5) years of service, his pay for that vacation will be based on earnings from his last anniversary date until a date which is four (4) weeks prior to the date on which his vacation is to commence.
On completion of that year of service, he will receive a vacation pay adjustment based on earnings for the portion of the year which was not included in the original vacation pay calculation.
12.09(a) Employees who are entitled to either two (2) or three (3) weeks of vacation may take up to two (2) weeks vacation during the period between the third Monday in May and the third Friday in September.
(b)	Employees who arc entitled to four (4) or more weeks of vacation may take up to three (3) weeks vacation during the period between the third Monday in May and thethird Friday in September.
(c)	The tentative list of summer vacations will be posted not later than February 15th of each year.
(d)	The vacation schedule will be finalized and a list of vacations posted on the Union bulletin board not later than March 15th of each year. Subject to the provisions of clause 12.09 (h) hereof, the schedule will not thereafter be changed without the mutual consent of the Company and the employees who would be affected.
(e)	Subject to the limitations of clauses 12.09(a) and (b) and to the terms of clause 12.09(g) hereof, preference in regard to the available vacation dates will be given in order of seniority.
(f)	For the purpose of determining the choice of vacation periods (but for that purpose only), seniority shah be applied, within each seniority group, by shift (day and night) and by the following department groupings :
HAMILTON - 29 -
Inside Employees Shippers & Receivers Materials Handling Garage
Sales Equipment Service
Outside Employees Sales Representatives
Delivery Salesmen and Delivery Salesmen-in-Charge Transport Drivers
Office Employees
(g)	Notwithstanding the other provisions of this clause 12.09, it is agreed that:
(i)	if, following confirmation of the vacation schedule an employee receives, under the provisions of the job posting procedure, a change of job which places him on a different shift and/or in a different departmental grouping (as referred to in this clause 12.09), his vacation pcriod(s) may then be rescheduled and will be subject
b	to the prior preferences of employees already in the vacation grouping to which
he is transferred, and,
(ii)	any vacation granted to an employee during a time when he is on temporary transfer to another job or shift shall be taken in accordance with the vacation schedule for the department/shift to which he is temporarily assigned and shall be subject to the prior preferences of the employees regularly assigned to such department/shift; provided, however, that if such temporary transfer is a mandatory reassignment by the Company to meet the needs of the business, every reasonable effort will be made to accommodate the affected employee's original vacation preferences.
(h)	It is agreed that this clause 12.09 shall not be construed as preventing the Company from granting vacation periods in excess of the minimum periods set out above, if it believes the particular circumstances are such that this may be done without adversely affecting the requirements and efficiency of operations.
12.10 Every employee whose employment with the Company is terminated during the life of this Agreement shall be entitled to a vacation pay allowance based on the length of his continuous employment with the Company ami his total earnings during the period, if any, in
HAMILTON - 30 -
respect of which he has not received a paid vacation. Such vacation allowances shall be computed as follows:
(a)	If the employee has not completed his first year of continuous employment, he will receive as vacation pay on termination the applicable percentage of his total earnings’ during the period of his employment, less any vacation pay already granted.
(b)	If the employee has completed one or more years of continuous employment and has taken all of the annual vacation to which he was entitled, in respect of his last completed year of continuous employment, he will receive as vacation pay on termination the applicable percentage of his total earnings from the last anniversary of his employment until the date of termination, less any vacation pay already granted in respect of the uncompleted year of continuous employment between the last anniversary of employment and the date of termination.
(c)	If the employee has completed one or more years of continuous employment and has not taken all of the annual vacation to which he was entitled in respect of his last completed year of continuous employment, he will receive as vacation pay on termination:
(i)	the applicable percentage of his total earnings during the last completed year of continuous employment, less any vacation pay already granted in respect of that year
-- plus --
(ii)	the applicable percentage of his total earnings from the last anniversary of his employment until the date of termination.
- 31 -
HAMILTON
(d)	The applicable percentage of earnings as referred to in (a), (b), and (c) above will
be:
During the Life of This Agreement
% Applicable to the Period of Continuous Employment Shown Period of Continuous Employment at Left
From	To	
Date of commencement of continuous employment	4th anniversary	4%
4th anniversary	9th anniversary	6%
9th anniversary	19th anniversary	8%
19th anniversary	29lh anniversary	10%
29th anniversary	and up	12%
12.11 Notwithstanding anything in this Article contained, an employee, granted a leave of absence under the provisions of clause 6.04 hereof in any year of his continuous employment, shall be granted and shall take a pro-rated vacation with pay in respect of the portion of that year during which he was not on such leave of absence.
ARTICLE 13 - LONG SERVICE LEAVE
13.01	In recognition of and appreciation for long association with the Company, each employee who curing the life of this Agreement completes his 25th, 30th, 35th, 40th, or 45th year of continuous employment with the Company shall, on completion of each such fifth year of employment, qualify for a special Long Service Leave. Each such Long Service Leave will be of two (2) weeks duration and the employee will be paid for each week of such absence an amount equal to his regular hourly rate, multiplied by forty (40).
ARTICLE 14 - WORK CLOTHING
14.01	The Company will supply to each employee (other than a temporary employee) without cost as reasonably required by him during each year of this Agreement the items of Standard Work Clothing to the total amounts specified in the following schedule:
Group No. 1 Sales Representatives
1	blazer
2	ties
3	trousers
1 car coat (in each 2 year period)
5 shirts
HAMILTON - 32 -
Note:	In the case of new, permanent appointments 'to the position of Sales
Representative, the first issue only will include an extra blazer.
Group No. 2 Delivery Satcsmcn-ln-Chargc, Delivery Salesmen, Sales Equipment
Servicemen and Sales Equipment Service Trainees regularly working outside the plant and Highway Tractor Trailer Drivers.
Standard Sales Work Clothing consisting of the following:
3	trousers
4	shirts
4 T-shirts 1 windbreaker
1 cap or toque
1 vest in each 2 year period
Note:	Should an employee in Group No. 2 so desire, he may receive an extra pair of
trousers in lieu of one windbreaker or vice-versa or may receive an extra shirt in lieu of two T-shirts, or may receive one winter parka in lieu of one windbreaker and one shirt, or may receive one (or more) pair of shorts in exchange for one (or more) pair of trousers.
Group No. 3 • Not applicable
Group No. 4
All Inside employees other than temporary employees and employees covered by Group No. 2 or No. 3
Standard Plant Work Clothing consisting of the following:
3	trousers
4	shirts
4 T-shirts
or in lieu of these, if so determined by the Company, 4 standard coveralls.
Posted Shipper Receivers/Forklift Operators, posted Sweepers, and any employees operating a forklift on a regular, fttll-limc basis who work in cold conditions will he provided with one (1) windbreaker (similar to D.S. I. C. windbreaker) for the duration of the Collective Agreement.
HAMILTON - 33 -
Note:	Should an employee in Group No. 3 or No. 4 so desire he may:
receive an extra pair of trousers in lieu of two shirts, or vice-versa; receive an extra shirt in lieu of two T-shirts
where the Company considers it to be appropriate, receive one or more pairs of coveralls in lieu of shirts and trousers, on the basis of one pair of trousers and two shirts being the equivalent of one pair of coveralls
—	receive one cap or one toque in lieu of one shirt.
—	receive one (or more) pair of shorts in exchange for one	(or more) pair	of
trousers.
14.02	It is understood and agreed that an employee will receive only garments of the type specified for his particular Group (as described in clause 14.01 above) and that the quantities listed for each Group represent the maximum number of garments which will be issued free-of-charge to any one employee during any year of the life of this Agreement. Every employee to whom Work Clothing is provided under this Article 14 is expected to wear during his working hours the Standard Work Clothing specified for his particular Group.
14.03	It is agreed that the Company will clean standard coveralls issued to employees listed in Group So. 4 in clause 14.01 above to the extent of one (1) such coverall per man per week.
14.04	Following completion of the probationary period, new regular employees will	be
issued work clothing as soon as practical and such first issue will be a full	year’s entitlement,
as set out above (in second and subsequent years of employment, the employee will receive the regular semi-annual issue).
14.05	When a regular employee qualifies for issue of safety boots he may purchase approved safety boots or shoes from the supplier of his choice. On presentation to the Company of evidence of purchase of approved boots, the Company will reimburse such employee up to the maximum safety boot allowance of $90. per employee, per year:
Any cost in excess of the allowance shall be paid by the employee. To meet the required safety standards, all such footwear must have steel toe caps and puncture resistant soles (green patch) and any additional safety footwear purchased for at-work wear must meet the same specifications.
Probationary employees arc required to purchase their own approved safety footwear and will receive the allowance on successful completion of their probationary period and appointment as a regular employee.
Temporary (and part-time, if applicable) employees are required to provide their
HAMILTON - 34 -
own approved safety footwear. However, if a temporary or part-time employee is accepted as a regular employee he will, on reclassification or on completion of his probationary period, whichever is later, be paid the safety footwear allowance.
ARTICLE 15 - BEREAVEMENT PAY
15.01	In the event of the death of the wife, husband, child, father, mother, brother, sister, mother-in-law, or father-in-law of an employee, that employee will be allowed such time off, with pay, as may be reasonably required in the circumstances. The extent of such leave shall be in the sole discretion of the Company but the general standard shall be three (3) consecutive working days. In the event of the death of an employee’s grandmother, grandfather, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, daughter-in-law, or son-in-law, that employee will be allowed one (1) day off, with pay, to attend the funeral. It is further agreed that these provisions shall be interpreted to include step-relatives and common-law spouses. It is also agreed that the bereavement leave as referred to herein may be increased by up to two (2)' days’ travel time, provided that such additional time off is necessary in the particular circumstances and that approval is obtained in advance of departure.
ARTICLE 16 - PAID TIME OFF
16.01	Jury Duty
An employee who is called for Jury Duty or who is subpoenaed to appear in Court as a Witness will receive for each da:, of necessary absence on that account the difference between his regular earnings for that day ami the amount of the fee received from the Court, provided that the employee furnishes the Company with a certificate of service and satisfactory evidence as to the amount of fee received.
16.02	Sick Pay
(a)	Every regular employee who has completed one or more years of continuous employment with the Company shall be entitled, in each year of the life of this Agreement, to payment for up to six (6) days of absence due to bonafide illness, (in the event that an employee commences work but becomes ill during the course of the day and does not complete his scheduled shift, such part day of absence will, for the purpose of this clause 16.02, be counted as one-half ('A) day of absence due to illness). Such payments shall be in an amount equal to seventy-five (75 %) of the employee's regular rate of pay as of the first day of the contract year and any unused credits shall be paid to the employee within thirty (30) days of the end of that contract year.
(b)	The sick pay credit of a regular employee who has not completed a full year of continuous employment with the Company shall be computed on the basis of a one-half ('A)
HAMILTON - 35 -
day credit for each completed month of continuous employment.
(c)	No payment shall be made under this clause 16.02 for any day of absence in respect of which the employee is eligible for full or partial payment under any other clause of this Agreement or from any plan or fund to which the Company contributes (e.g. the Group Insurance Plan, Workers' Compensation, Unemployment Insurance, Government Pension Plan, etc.).
(d)	An employee who, at the conclusion of the contract year, has an unused sick pay credit of at least five (5) days may, provided he has not been absent in that contract year for any reason other than:
(i)	bonafide illness, (i.e. a claim for I (one) day of illness, leaving 5 days sick pay credit remaining, shall not disqualify an employee from the provisions of this paragraph 16.02 (d)), or
(ii)	a paid absence referred to in paragraph (c) above, or
(iii)	an unpaid absence for bereavement, the birth of a son or daughter, or because of the closing of the plant by the Company due to an Act of God;
receive in lieu of the cash payment referred to in paragraph 16.02(a) above, a Z-day leave of absence at his regular rate of pay. Such leave of absence is to be taken outside the regular vacation period fas referred to in 12.09(a) hereof) and at a time to be mutually agreed upon by the employee concerned and the Company. Should such an employee have an unused sick pay credit of (six) 6 days, then in addition to the Five (5) day leave of absence with pay for which he qualified under the above provision, he will be paid for the remaining one day at seventy-five (75 fo) percent of the regular rate of pay that was in effect for him on the first day of the contract year. Provided that such leave of absence is arranged at least two (2) weeks in advance of the date on which it is to commence, the employee will receive payment for the leave prior to his departure.
(e)	Aa employee who is entitled to a five (5) day paid leave of absence under clause 16.02(d) may. ii he so desires, elect to receive a cash payment at his regular rate of pay for the five (5) or six (6) days of unused sick pay credit, as applicable, in'licu of the paid leave of absence.
(f)	iXnrwirhstanding the foregoing, an employee scheduled for a four (4) by ten (10) hour work week shall draw sick pov in units of eight (8) hours for each day of absence, up to the annual maximum of forty-eight (48) hours of paid absence due to illness.
HAMILTON - 36-
16.03	At Work Accidents -- Where an employee is he victim of an accident while at work and so suffers an injury requiring professional medical attention, the Company agrees that he shall suffer no loss of earnings on the day of the accident by reason of his necessary absence from work to receive such treatment.
16.04	If a delay in receipt of payment by the Workers’ Compensation Board, or a payment by the insurance carrier of Weekly Income Benefits, would create an undue hardship for an employee, he may receive a pay advance of up to $400. per pay period. Such advances are to be repaid to the Company upon receipt of the related claim payment.
ARTICLE 17 - WAGES
17.01	Inside Employees — The Wage Brackets and the hourly wage rate applicable to each such Wage Bracket, as set out below, shall apply for inside employees, other than temporary employees, and shall be maintained during the life of this Agreement.’
July 25, I994 to	Donut Payable*	Donut Payable*	Donut ftythlt'
December 31/97	July 2-1,1995	July 22.1995	Jily 21,1997
Wage Bracket 1
Warehouseman	$ 19.83	$400. w	$400. w	$200.00
Wage Bracket 2 Sales Equipment Service Trainees, Cooler Delivery	S 19.98	5400. w	$400.00	$200.00
Wage Bracket 3				
Shippers & Receivers	$ 20.48	$400. w	$400.00	$200. w
Wage Bracket 4 Sales Equipment Servicemen	$21.34	$400. w	$400. w	$200. w
Wage Bracket 5 Journeyman Automotive Maintenance Men	$ 24.67	$400. w	$400. w	$200. w
Wage Bracket 6				
Journeyman Electrician,	$ 26.51	$400. w	$400. w	$200. w
HAMILTON ■ 37 -
*Note:	All regular employee who have completed their probationary periods.
The Job Rate for a Lead Hand will be determined by adding a wage differential-of eighty cents ($.80) per hour to the Job Rate shown above for the highest classification of work normally performed by the men regularly led by that Lead Hand.
17.02	Outside Employees -- The Wage Brackets and the hourly wage rates applicable to each such Wage Bracket, as set out below, shall Ik established for outside employees, other than temporary employees, and shall be maintained during the life of this Agreement.
Wage Bracket 1	Jut) 2S, 1994 to eicitniir 31/97	[tonus Pay able' July 24, I99S	Bonus Ptyoilo * July 22, 1996	Bonus Ptytih July 21, 1997
Delivery Salesman Wage Bracket 2 Delivery Salesman-In-Charge, Highway	$ 19.83	$400.00	$400.00	$200.00
Tractor Trailer Driver	S 21.30	$400. w	$400.00	$200. w
Wage Bracket 3				
Sales Representatives	S927/wk.	$400. w	$400. w	$200. w
'Note:	A ll regular employee who have completed their probationary periods.
17.03 Office Employees - The Wage Brackets and the hourly wage rales applicable to each such wage bracket, as set out below, shall be established for office employees, other than temporary employees, and shall be maintained during the life of this Agreement.
The Wage Brackets under this system are us follows:
Wage Bracket "A "	-	Receptionist, Data Control, Customer Service/Order Desk,
Accounts Payable I, Inter-Plant Transport.
Wage Bracket ”B"	-	Accounts Receivable I, Cashier, Full Service, Accounts
Payable II.
Wage Bracket "C"
Data I, Sales Eriuipment, Standard Cost/lnventory, Grandale, Settlement.
Wage Bracket "D"
Dora II, Payroll, Accounts Receivable II, Sales Secretary
The hourly wage rates payable to employees in such Wage Brackets during the life of
HAMILTON - 38 -
this Agreement shall be as follows:
	Ml 25, 1994 It li timber 31/97	Bonus Payable’ July 24, 1995	BonusPoyobti* July 22, 1996	tins Payable* July 21, 1997
Wage Bracket “A ‘	$15.66	$400.00	$400.00	$200.00
Wage Bracket • B“	$16.76	$400.00	$400.00	$200.00
Wage Bracket "C"	$18.22	$400.00	$400.00	$200.00
Wage Bracket "D *	$19.98	$400.00	$400.00	$200.00
♦Note:	u regular employee who have completed their probationary periods.
17.04	It is understood and agreed that the Company, in hiring any new employee	other
than temporary employee, may pay him:
(a)	until the commencement of the first week following the completion of his probationary period, at a rate three dollars fifty cents ($3.50) per hour less than the Job Rate of the job to which he is assigned, and
(b)	thereafter and until the commencement of the first week following the completion of his subsequent three (3) months of continuous employment, at a rate one dollar seventy&e cents (SI.75) per hour less than the Job Rale of the job to which he is assigned, and
(c)	thereafter at the Job Rate of the job to which he is assigned.
17.05	It is understood and agreed that the rate for temporary employees (as	defined	in
clause 2.06 hereof) will be twelve dollars ($12.00) per hour.
17.06	In addition to the hourly rates set out above, a Sales Representative will receive a bonus, at rates established by the Company, on beverage cooling or dispensing machines sold by him; subject, however, to the right of the Company to provide for the refund by the Sales Representative of a portion or all of the bonus originally paid to him on the sale of any such beverage cooling or dispensing machine in the event of its repossession.
17.07(a) Where an Inside or Outside employee is temporarily transferred to a job which carries a higher rare of pay titan the job from which he was transferred and provided that he remains in such higher rated job for a period of more than one (1) hour, he shall he paid at the higher rate for all time worked in such higher rated job.
HAMILTON - 39 -
(b) It is understood and agreed that the Compuny in assigning an office employee a job in a Wage Bracket to Jill a temporary vacancy of more than four (4) hours per day in another job in a higher Wage Bracket shall pay him at the job rate for the higher rated job for all time worked in such higher rated job.
17.08	Where an employee is temporarily transferred to a job which carries a lower rate
of pay than the job from which he was transferred and while work is available for him in the job from which he was transferred, he shall continue to be paid at the higher rate. Where, however, there is no work available for him in the job from which he was transferred, he shall be paid at the rate of the job to which he was transferred.
17.09	In all cases of permanent transfers, the transferred employee will be paid the rate of the job to which he is transferred.
ARTICLE 18 - TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE
18.01(a) If, during the life of this Agreement, the Company wishes to make a technological change in its operations which would have the effect of abolishing existing job classifications or creating new job classifications or which would result in the layoff of any regular employee, the Company agrees that, before introducing such technological change, it will meet with the Union to discuss the matter and to attempt to resolve the problems created by such technological change, as well as to attempt to lessen the impact of such technological change on the employees affected.
(b)	If, as a result of a technological change in the Company's operations, an employee is assigned to a job having a lower rate of pay than the rate of pay he formerly received, he shall continue to be paid at his former rate of pay until the job rate for his new classification equals his former rate.
(c)	If a regular employee should be displaced from his job by reason of a technological change in the Company's operations, and provided the employee has the necessary qualifications to perform the work available after a reasonable training period, the Company shall arrange, where feasible, for him to receive such training.
(d)	In the event of a plant closing or sale, any employee who then has seniority standing shall:
(i) if he has more than five (5) years seniority, have the right to displace an employee with less than five (5) years seniority in the comparable seniority group
HAMILTON - 40 -
at any other plant in Ontario at which this Union has this same reciprocal provision, or
(ii) if he has less than five (5) years seniority, be given preferential hiring rights (for a period of eighteen (18) months following such closing) in the comparable seniority group at any other plant in Ontario at which this Union has this same reciprocal provision:
provided, however, that such employee can satisfactorily fulfill the normal requirements of the job which is so made available to him. Once so relocated such employee shall carry full seniority with him into the new seniority group.
(c) Should any major operation currently being performed by the bargaining unit be transferred from a location covered by this Agreement to another company location or a related Company location within fifty (50) mile radius of Hamilton, then the employees who have been performing this work shall, to the extent required, be transferred to the new location, with full seniority, if they so desire.
In addition, if employees transferred under this provision represent a majority of employees at the new location, the Union will be recognized -as representing all employees at such location and the terms and conditions of this Agreement will be deemed to apply to them for the balance of its duration.
ARTICLE 19 - SAFETY
19.01	The Company will make all reasonable provisions for the health and safety of the employees during working hours and will furnish adequate facilities and equipment for that purpose. The Company and the Union mutually agree that employees should be encouraged to co-operate in the maintenance of healthy and safe working conditions, in the proper use of protective clothing and equipment, and in the observance of all safety rules.
19.02	To further the above-mentioned objectives, it is mutually agreed that a Joint Health and Safety Committee shall be maintained. The members of such Committee shall receive training appropriate for their responsibilities.
ARTICLE 20 - WORK OF BARGAINING UNIT
20.01	Plant Supervisors will not normally perform work customarily performed by employees in the bargaining unit, except:
(a)	as a result of urgent or emergency conditions,
HAMILTON - 41 -
(b)	for the purposes of demonstration or training,
(c)	to occasionally relieve an employee for a short period, or
(d)	when a regular employee is not available due to being late for work or absent from work and a suitable replacement is not available.
20.02	Sales Supervisors and Zone Supervisors shall continue to perform their normal sales and merchandising activities; provided, however, that such activities shall not be extended by the Company so as to cause the layoff of any regular employee.
20.03faJ The Company agrees that if the contracting out of any work normally performed by employees in the bargaining unit would result in the layoff of any regular employee, the Company will meet with the union to discuss ways and means of reducing the impact of such change on the employee(s) to be affected.
(h) The Company also agrees that it will not, during the life of this Agreement, extend its present practices with respect to the contracting out of work, provided that the Company has the capability (i.e. the facilities, equipment and/or required workforce skills) to perform such work within the bargaining unit without serious impairment to the normal efficiency of operations.
(c)	If the Company plans to contract our work beyond that permitted by ta) or (b) above,
it will give the Union written notice of such intention.
The ponies shall meet immediately thereafter, at which time the Company will provide particulars of the proposed contracting. The panics will attempt to agree on ways to minimize the impact of the contracting on the bargaining writ employees and/or will attempt to seek mutually acceptable arrangements which will produce comparable business results for the Company.
Any arrangement mutually agreed upon at or following these discussions shall not he considered a violation of this Article.
If the parries fail to reach agreement on the contracting out of the work in question or a comparable solution within thirty (30) days of the notice given above, then this Collective Agreement shall terminate on the later of the thirtieth (30th) day following that notice and one (!) year from the date that the Agreement commenced to operate, in such event, both parties agree to make a joint application to the Ontario Labour Relations Board under Section 53(3) of the Labour Relations Act to seek the consent of the Board to such early termination, ai the same lime, either puny may deliver notice to bargain pursuant to Section 54 of the Act pending
HAMILTON - 42 -
receipt of the Board’s consent.
The Company shall nor extend Its current practices of contracting out except under the terms of (a) or0) above, unless It is with the agreement of the Union.
ARTICLE 21 - HEALTH INSURANCE PLANS
21.01(a) It is agreed that, subject to any future legislation affecting such matters, the Company’s Extended Group Insurance Plan (which provides Life, Major Medical, Weekly Income and Dental Care Benefits) will be continued in force during the life of this Agreement. Life Insurance $32,000.00
Weekly Income Benefits
Effective from dare of execution of this Agreement, the Weekly Income Benefits will be sixty-sLt and two-thinlx percent (66-2/3 %) of regular straight-time weekly earnings to a maximum of five hundred dollars ($500.00) per week.
Dental Care Plan
The calendar year maximum Routine/Major Treatment benefit per individual is $1,500. and the lifetime maximum Orthodontic Treatment benefit is $3,000. per
child.
Supplemental Medical Plan
The Vision Cure benefit provides maximum reimbursement of SI50. per insured family member in each twenty-four (24) month period.
The Prescribed Drug benefit provides for reimbursement of one hundred percent (100%) of eligible expenses
(b)	Derails of the Long Term Disability Plan are set out in a Letter of Agreement attached hereto.
(c)	The Company will continue to pay the full premium for Life, Supplemental Medical Coverage, Weekly Income Benefit premium and Dental Care premium.
21.02	It is further agreed that, in consideration of improvements contained in this and prior Agreements, and subject to the provisions of the Unemployment Insurance Act, the Company shall retain in full any “Premium Reduction" which is or may become available from the Unemployment Insurance Commission upon their continued acceptance of the
HAMILTON - 43 -
Company’s plan of Weekly Income Benefits as a “qualifying registered plan”
ARTICLE 22 - MATERNITY/PATERNITY LEAVE
22.01	On Ihc written request of the employee, the Company will grant a leave of absence
without pay for maternity reasons to any regular employee whose continuous service with the Company commenced at least thirteen (13) weeks prior to the expected date of delivery. Such requests shall be accompanied by a medical certificate stating the expected date of delivery.
A leave of absence for maternity reasons may commence up to three (3) months prior to the expected date of delivery and may continue for up to nine (9) months after the actual date of delivery. Employees are expected to give at least thirty (30) days’ notice of the date on which such leave is to commence and those desiring to return to work shall notify the Company in writing of their intentions not less than thirty (30) days prior to the actual date of return.
It is understood that the Company may require an employee Lo commence such a leave of absence at any time that the duties of her position cannot reasonably be performed by a pregnant woman or if the performance of her work is materially affected by the pregnancy or if her health would be jeopardized by her continuance of work.
If the employee has government hospital/medical coverage through the Company she may, if she so wishes, continue such coverage and/or coverage under the Extended Group Insurance Plan (with the exception of Weekly Income Benefits) during the period of leave by payment of the full premiums as they become due. The portion of such premiums normally paid by the Company will be reimbursed to the employee upon her return to active service for a period of at least ninety (90) calendar days.
An employee’s seniority shall not be broken because of a leave of absence for maternity reasons except where the leave of absence contravenes the provisions of clause 8.04(d).
22.02	On the written request of the employee, the Company will grant an unpaid leave of absence (lo be known as “Paternity Leave”) of two (2) weeks duration to an employee whose spouse has given birth to a baby. Such leave is to be requested at least thirty (30) days prior to the expected date of delivery and shall commence not later than five (5) days following the date of delivery.
ARTICLE 23 - TOOL ALLOWANCE
23.01	Journeyman Automotive Maintenance Men and Journeyman Electricians shall
supply and maintain their own tool kit and shall receive a tool allowance which shall be paid annually. Commencing with the payment due in August 1992, the amount of such payment shall be S15.00 for each month classified as a journeyman during the preceding contract year.
HAMILTON - 44 -
ARTICLE 24 - DURATION OF AGREEMENT
24.01	This Agreement with respect to the rates set out in clauses 9.06, 10.01, 17.01, 17.02, 17.03 and 17.04, shall bc^cffcdhts from ^«/y 25,1994. In all other respects, this agreement shall be effective from date of execution. No person who was not in the employment of the Company on the date of execution shall be entitled to claim from the Company any amount arising fromany increases in rates effective from July 25.1994. This Agreement shall terminate at December31,1997.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the Parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be executed “by their respective duly authorized representatives at the City of Toronto, in the Province of Ontario, this 21st day of November, 1994.
FOR THE UNION	FOR THE COMPANY
R. Hammond
J. Loughridge
HAMILTON • 45 -
APPENDIX "A"
Any maher referred to arbitration as provided for in Article 7 hereof shall be heard by a single arbitrator who shall be chosen having regard to his impartiality, his qualifications in the interpretation of agreements and his familiarity with industrial matters.
An earnest effort will be made by both the Company and the Union to reach mutual agreement on the person to be requested to serve as arbitrator but if such agreement cannot be reached within fifteen (15) working days of the date of notice of arbitration, then the parties shall make joint application to the Ontario Labour-Management Arbitration Commission for a list of arbitrators and shall proceed with the selection of an arbitrator under the provisions of the Ontario Labour- Management Arbitration Commission Act.
The Company and the Union shall each be responsible for one-half (’A) of the expenses of and fees payable to the arbitrator.
The rules of arbitration set out below shall govern the conduct of any arbitration proceedings hereunder.
RULES OF ARBITRATION
1.	Arbitration shall be held at the City of Hamilton, in the Province of Ontario.
2.	In any arbitration:
(i)	in the case of an Individual Grievance, the written representations of the employee made at Step 3 and the written decision therein of the Company representative shall be presented to the arbitrator and the award of the arbitrator shall be confined to determining the issue therein set out.
(ii)	in the case of a Collective Grievance or a Company/Union Grievance, the submission in writing by one party and the written reply of the other party shall be presented to the arbitrator and the award of the arbitrator shall be confined to determining the issue therein set out.
3.	The findings of the arbitrator as to the facts and as to the interpretation, application, administration or alleged violation of the provisions of this Agreement shall be conclusive and binding upon the Company, the Union and the employees. In any arbitration hereunder the presumption shall be until the contrary shall have been proven that the provisions of this Agreement have been complied with.
HAMILTON - 46 -
4.	The arbitrator shall not bes: authorized to alter, modify or amend any part of this
Agreement or to substitute his opinion or judgement for that of the Company; provided, however, that this restriction is in no way intended to limit the scope of action provided to the arbitrator under section 37(8) of the Ontario Labour Relations Act with respect to grievances concerning discharge or discipline.
5.	Each party to an arbitration shall be entitled, through counsel or otherwise, to present evidence, to cross-examine the witnesses of the other party and to present oral arguments. Briefs of argument may be presented by each party and each party shall be entitled to reply to the brief of argument presented by the other.
6.	Witness fees and allowances shall be paid by the party calling the witness.
7.	No costs of any arbitration shall be awarded to or against either party.
HAMILTON - 47 -
APPENDIX "R"
Coca-Cola Bottling Lid.	Plant
Authorization for Deduction of Initiation Fee
In consideration of my acceptance into membership in the United Food and Commercial Workers International Union, and in accordance with the provisions of clause 3.04 of the Collective Agreement in effect at the date hereof between the Company and the said Union, I hereby authorize the Company to deduct from the next weekly pay hereafter due to me such amount as is presently certified by the Union to the Company as being the amount of its current Initiation Fee.
DATED at , this day of	19
Witness
Employee
HAMILTON - 48 -
APPENDIX "C"
Coca-Cola Bottling Ltd.
Plant
Irrevocable Authorization For Deduction of Union Dues
As a condition of my employment by the Company and in accordance with the provisions of clause 3.04 of the Collective Agreement in effect at the date hereof between the Company and the United Food and Commercial Workers International Union, I hereby authorize the Company to deduct from each weekly pay hereafter due to me, such amount as may from time to time be certified by the Union to the Company as being the amount of Union Dues currently payable.
This authorization shall remain effective during the life, and any statutory extension, of the Collective Agreement in effect at the date hereof between the Company and the above-mentioned Union and of any Collective Agreement made thereafter between the Company and the said Union which contains provisions similar to those in the said clause 3.04.
DATED at
, this day of
19
Witness
Employee
HAMILTON - 49 -
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION, Local 381W
Gentlemen,
Re: Collective Agreement
Fjpfntpri nn November 21,1994
Notwithstanding any of the provisions of the above-mentioned Collective Agreement which may be to the contrary, it is mutually understood and agreed that the following arrangements and conditions shall apply to the position of Sales Representative:
1.	If, in the future, the Company should decide to declare a regular, full-time job vacancy as a Sales Representative, the job shall be posted and any employee in the category of delivery-salesman or delivery-salesman-in-charge may apply for it. The Company will thoroughly consider all applications received and may select the successful candidate from among them. On occasion, however, the Company may elect to also consider applications from persons not then in the Company’s employ. In making its final decision between two or more candidates who in the opinion of the Company arc equally suitable, the Company shall always give preference to the more senior of two existing employees and to an existing employee over a new hire. It is understood that determination of the job skills and personal attributes required to fill any particular vacancy, as well as the final selection decision against such criteria, are an exclusive responsibility of the Company.
It is further provided, however, that such selection process will be applied by the Company in a fair and non-discriminatory manner and may be the subject of review through the Grievance Procedure, up to and including arbitration.
2.	Temporary promotions to the position of Sales Representative ma:; be made at the Company's discretion to meet the needs of the business. However, in making such promotions the Company will give due consideration to the relative seniority of the available and qualified employees.
3.	It is recognized that work assignments within the category of Sales Representative shall be the sole responsibility of the Company.
4.	The assigned duties of a Sates Representative may include the supervision and direction of other employees and, in such cases, the Sales Representative shall be responsible for the quantity and quality of the work of those reporting to him; provided, however, that such
HAMILTON - 50 -
responsibilities shall not involve the exercising of any formal disciplinary action.
5.	Should a Sales Representative be unable to fulfill the normal requirements of that position to the Company’s satisfaction he may, after having been given a reasonable opportunity to achieve satisfactory performance levels, be reassigned to delivery work and, if necessary, may displace an employee in that job category. Before taking such action, the Company will review the circumstances in detail, with a full-time representative of the Union.
It is further understood that this provision will not apply to cases involving misconduct which will continue to be dealt with on a disciplinary basis and be subject to the established grievance procedure.
6.	The position of Sales Representative will be a salaried position carrying weekly rates as set out in Article 17 of the above-mentioned Collective Agreement.
Approved compensating time off (calculated on the basis of one aild one-half hours off for each extra hour of approved time worked) will be granted not later than during the calendar quarter following the quarter in which it was earned.
7.	A Sales Representative may receive various forms of incentives, as determined from time to time by the Company, and it is agreed that such incentives may be introduced, changed or withdrawn without negotiations between the parties hereto.
8.	The provisions of Article 9 of the Collective Agreement, relative to hourly-rated employees, shall not apply to the salaried position of Sales Representatives.
9.	All present Sales Representatives may elect to accept appointment as a Zone Supervisor. It is agreed, however, that no present Sales Representative shall be obliged to accept an offered position us Zone Supervisor hut rather may continue to perform the duties of a Sales Representative so long as work is available for him in that capacity. Should a current Sales Representative nor elect to become a Zone Supenisor, the Sales Representative position will remain in effect as long cs the current individuals arc in that position. It is further agreed that no Sales Representative wll he displaced us a result of the hiring of a Zone Supervisor, or as a result of the promotion of a Sales Representative to a Zone Supervisor. In the event of a layoff of a Sales Representative, he shall be reinstated to the position of a Sales Representative before the hire of a Zone Supervisor or the promotion of a Sales Representative to a Zone Zupervisor.
HAMILTON - 51 -
In the event that a Safes Representative Tell-Sell position becomes vacant, any current Sales Representative may apply far the position, but consideration will be given to a Sales Representative with a physical disability or handicap.
HAMILTON - 52 -
LETTER OF INTENT
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION, Local 381W
Gentlemen,
The purpose of this letter is to confirm the Company’s intentions with respect to its endeavours to accommodate the individual preferences of employees in regard to their regularly assigned duties.
“INSIDE EMPLOYEES”
1.	(a) Effective an and ofter the dare of execution of this Agreement, all job postings under the provisions of clause 8.06(a) of the Collective Agreement to fill the position of Warehouseman will identify the shift, department, and ‘'function" within the Job Classification in which the vacancy exists. For this purpose (and this purpose only), the following ‘functions” will be recognized:
W.B. No. 2 - Job Classification: Warehouseman
Functions:
(a)	Principally Forklift Operator
(b)	Principally Load Consolldation/Sorting
(c)	Principally Shunting
(d)	General Duties
(b)	in the event that more forktift operators are required than those posted, those additional positions will be filled on a seniority basis.
2.	It is expressly agreed that the function descriptions set out above are intended solely to identify the general or predominant nature of the tasks assigned to any employee and shall not in any way limit the Company’s ability to assign other duties or tasks within the Job Classification.
“OUTSIDE EMPLOYEES”
3.	The Company will identify the Sales Areas into which the particular plant’s sales territory is divided (e.g. Sales Area ‘A’, Sales Area 'B', etc.).
This identification will permit employees to identify the general or predominant nature of the work assignments in a particular Sales Area. It shall not, however, be construed as an
HAMILTON - 53 -
exclusive definition of the work to be performed; rather, it is understood and agreed that employees may from time-to-time be assigned deliveries which are of a kind or location other than those associated with the general or predominant nature of the Sales Area.
4.	For each such Sales Area, the Company shall establish a basic D.S.I.C, complement representing the number of D.S.I.C.’s which it anticipates will be required in the specific Sales Area on a year-round basis.
5.	When a regular, full-time vacancy (as referred to in clause 8.06(a) of the Collective Agreement) should occur in the basic D.S.I.C. complement for any Sales Area, the ensuing job posting will identify the Sales Area in which the vacancy exists.
6.	D.S.I.C.'s who are assigned to a specific Sales Area, either as a result of the general reassignment or as a result of application of the job posting procedure will (for the purpose of this understanding) be referred to as “regularly" assigned D.S.I.C.'s, while all other D.S.I.C.'s will be referred to as “spares”.
7.	If on any day the sales volume of a Sales Area is such that not all regularly assigned D.S.I.C.'s are required, the most junior of the employees in that Area will be temporarily reassigned to another Sales Area in which there is a vacant route that day. In the event that there should be no vacant route, then such employee shall displace the most junior of all regularly assigned D.S.I.C.'s who, in turn, shall become a Delivery Salesman for that day.
8.	Any routes which remain vacant after the assignment of all available regularly assigned D.S.I.C.’s shall then be assigned to spare D.S.I.C.'s.
9.	Should an additional Sales Area be required on a temporary basis, the D.S.I.C.'s required in such Area will be assigned on a temporary basis. Similarly, should a Sales Area be temporarily discontinued, the affected D.S.I.C.'s will be temporarily re-assigned elsewhere.
10.	When it is determined that an additional Sales Area will be required on a “permanent" basis, the basic complement of D.S.I.C.'s for that Area will be filled by the job posting procedure.
11.	When it is determined that a Sales Area is to be "permanently” discontinued and if there are no corresponding additions to complement in other Sales Areas, then the D.S.I.C.'s who were so displaced shall in turn displace the most junior of all regularly assigned D.S.I.C.'s.
HAMILTON - 54 -
12.	It is understood that the expression “job posting” as used herein refers to the procedure set out in clause 8.06 of the Collective Agreement (i.e. the initial vacancy and the vacancy created as a result of the Filling of the initial vacancy shall both be posted).
GENERAL
13.	Effective on execution of this Agreement, the Company agrees to identify the service districts into which Hamilton's service territory is divided (District I, District 2, District 3, Other).
This identification will permit existing Sales Equipment Servicemen to identify by
seniority the general or predominant nature of the work assignments in a particular service area.
Work assignments will include both service and installation work and will be posted on a yearly (twelve (12) month) basis.
If is understood and agreed that from time to time, employees may be assigned service or installation work which are of a location other than those associated with the general or predominant nature of the service area.
14.	Notwithstanding anything herein contained, it is mutually understood and agreed that inculpable inability to meet satisfactory standards of performance may be grounds For a non-disciplinary change of assignment within the Job Classification of Warehouseman or Delivery Salesman in Charge.
This expression of intent to provide further recognition of individual preferences, on an experimental basis, shall not be construed as a contractual obligation nor shall it in any way diminish existing management rights and prerogatives with respect to conduct of the business or deployment of the workforce.
HAMILTON - 55 -
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION, Local 381 W
Gentlemen,
Re: Collective Agreement
F.YM-iited nn November 21 , 1994
Notwithstanding any of the provisions of the above-mentioned Collective Agreement which may be to the contrary, it is mutually understood and agreed that the following arrangements and conditions shall apply to the positions of Sales Equipment Serviceman and Sales Equipment Service Trainee.
1.	Candidates for a posted job vacancy as a Sales Equipment Service Trainee shall:
(a)	Successfully complete an appropriate aptitude test prior to appointment; and
(b)	Be prepared lo undertake and successfully complete a prescribed course of
Company sponsored training; and
(c)	Hold a valid, appropriate driver’s licence.
2.	The successful candidate For a posted vacancy in the position of Sales Equipment Service Trainee will be appointed to that position on the condition that he undertake such training as the Company may require.
3.	Failure to maintain a satisfactory degree of progress or Failure to successfully complete the training program shall lead to the demotion of a Sales Equipment Service Trainee. In such event, the employee shall revert to his Former position and, in so doing, may displace the employee who succeeded him in that position.”
4.	The training program referred to herein currently consists of a correspondence course administered by an independent organization (I.C.S.), various training sessions organized by the Company and/or equipment suppliers and on-the-job training totalling 2000 hours of practical experience as a Sales Equipment Service Trainee.
5.	On successful completion of the training program (including demonstration of the required knowledge, skills, etc.) a Sales Equipment Service Trainee shall thereupon be reclassified and paid as a Sales Equipment Serviceman.
HAMILTON - 56 -
6.	In the event that the Company has no employee who can:
(a)	meet the requirements for a vacancy as a Sales Equipment Service Trainee; or
(b)	meet the requirements for a vacancy as a Sales Equipment Serviceman;
the Company may hire a new employee who does possess the necessary qualifications to satisfactorily fulfill the requirements of the vacant position.
7.	When a change in the complement of Sales Equipment Servicemen will result in an opportunity for a change of shift assignment, the existing Sates Equipment Servicemen may exercise their preference in shift assignment, on a seniority basis.
8.	A Sales Equipment Serviceman or Service Trainee who is required by the Company to be on “stand-by” when off duty shall, for each day he has such responsibility, be guaranteed to receive pay in an amount which is at least the equal of 4 hours pay at his regular hourly rate.
However, if such an employee is actually called out to work on a day when he is on “stand-by”, then the provisions of clause 9.13 hereof shall apply and the provisions of this point Hi shall no longer apply to that day.
HAMILTON - 57 -
LETTER OF AGREEMENT
Between:
United Food and Commercial Workers International Union, Local 381W
- and -
Coca-Cola Bottling Lid. (Hamilton)
It is mutually agreed by the parties hereto that the Company's current package of disability benefits shall be modified and that a co-ordinated Long Term Disability Plan shall be introduced, all as set out herein:
1.	Effective from January 6, 1992, the present Weekly Income Benefit coverage was amended to reduce the maximum benefit period from 78 weeks to 26 weeks. The Company will pay 100% of the revised W.I.B. premiums. An employee who is absent on W.I.B. at January 6, 1992 will continue to be covered by the existing 78 week maximum until he/she returns to work, at which point the new program will become effective for him/her.
2.	Effective From January 6, 1992, the Company introduced For all regular Full-time employees, a Long Term Disability Insurance program which will includes the following Features:
(a)	The benefit is based on 66-2/3% of regular straight-time earnings in effect at the time disability commences, up to a maximum monthly benefit of $2000.
(b)	Benefits ore payable monthly, after a qualifying W.I.B. period of 26 weeks of continuous absence due to “disability”, and will continue as long as “total disability” lasts, up to age 65.
(c)	“Disability” means an incapacity which prevents the employee From performing his/her regular duties during the qualifying W.I.B. period of 26 weeks and the following L.T.D. benefit period of 104 weeks. If still disabled after a combined benefit period of 130 weeks, disability is then considered total if it prevents the employee from performing any work for which he/she is reasonably qualified by education, training or experience.
HAMILTON - 58 -
(d)	Benefits payable under the L.T.D. plan are reduced by the amount of disaDinty income benefit, if any, payable by the Canada/Quebec Pension Plan (primary benefit only) or by Workers' Compensation. The policy shall include such limitations and restrictions as are usually found in L.T.D. policies.
(e)	Participation in the L.T.D. plan will be mandatory for all eligible employees on completion of the probationary period. Coverage is effective on the date the employee becomes eligible, provided he/she is at work on such date. If the employee is absent From work on the date of eligibility, L.T.D. coverage will not become effective until he/she returns to active employment.
(f)	Pre-existing conditions are not covered unless the employee, after becoming insured, has been actively working for three (3) consecutive months with no absence related to the pre-existing condition.
(g)	Effective January 5,1994, the Company pays 100% of the L. T.D. premium.
3.	During the 130 week benefit period referred to in point 2(c) above, the Company will continue in force the Life, Supplemental Medical and Dental Care Benefits referred to in Article 2 1 .0 1 of the Collective Agreement.
HAMILTON - 59 -
LETTER OF AGREEMENT
Between:
United Food and Commercial Workers International Union, Local 381FV
- and -
Coca-Cola Bottling Ltd. (Hamilton)
Re: Collective Agreement
F.Ytt-nfpri nn Nnvemhpr21, 1994
In the event that the Consumer Price Index, All Canada (1971 —100), for the month of July 1992 stands at a value which is greater than such Index number for July 1991, increased by 6%, then a cost-of-living adjustment will become payable during the period from August 1, 1992 until July 31,1993. The amount of such adjustment will be S.01 per hour for each 0.3 points by which the July 1992 Index value exceeds the “trigger" value (i.e. the July 1991 value, plus 6%, rounded to the nearest l/10th of a point).
Such cost-of-living allowance will be implemented immediately following the release by Statistics Canada of the July 1992 C.P.I. value, retroactive to August 1, 1992. It will be treated as a separate adjustment (not part of the regular hourly rate) but will be paid for all hours paid for by the Company. It will be paid to all Regular Employees, and not to Temporary Employees. No account will be taken of any increase in the C.P.I. value which is in excess of the July 1992 value, increased by 8%. A further adjustment will be payable between August 1, J993 and July 31,1994 if the July 1993 C.P.I. exceeds the July 1992 C.P.I. by more than 6%, The adjustment will be capped at 8%. The formula and application will be as described above.
FOR THE UNION
HAMILTON - 60 -
LETTER OF AGREEMENT
Between:
United Food and Commercial Workers International Union, Local 381W
-and -
Coca-Co& Bottling Ltd. (Hamilton)
Re: Collective Agreement
T.ypfiitpd nn November 21, 1994
Any employee in the Bargaining Unit who wishes to be considered for employment in the Company’s operation at Barrie, Ontario should submit to the Company a request, in writing, for consideration for transfer to that location.
Copies of such requests will be kept on file at Barrie and, at such time as they may have need to hire new employees, will receive due consideration. If accepted by the Company for transfer to Barrie (which decision shall rest exclusively with the Company and will not be challenged through the grievance/arbitration procedure) the transferred employee’s employment with the Company will, insofar as the Company deems it practical to do so, be treated as continuous service.
FOR THE UNION
><L--------
R. Hammond
HAMILTON - 61 -
LETTER OF AGREEMENT
Between:
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION, Local381W
(hereinafter called the “Union”)
OF THE FIRST PART
- and -
COCA-COLA BOTTLING LTD., (Hamilton)
(hereinafter called the “Company”)
OF THE SECOND PART
RE: COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT EXECUTED ON OCTOBER 13,1988
(the “Collective Agreement”).
The purpose of this letter is to confirm the Company’s acceptance in 1988 of the Union’s proposal that all members of the bargaining unit covered by this Agreement shall, in future, participate in the Canadian Commercial Workers Industry Pension Plan (the "C.C.W.I.P.P.*), rather than in the Employees’ Retirement Plan of T.C.C. Beverages Ltd. ("E.R.P."). More particularly, the following specific arrangements have been agreed to:
1.	Members of the subject bargaining unit shall not be eligible to participate in the E.R.P. with respect to service after December 3 1,1988.
2.	It is recognized that the provisions of the Pension Benefits Act, 1987 (Ontario) restrict the ability of E.R.P. members to withdraw prior contributions to the E.R.P. so long as they continue to be employed by the Company.
3.	Members of the E.R.P. shall, subject to the Plan provisions, retain their right to benefits accrued for service up to December 31,1988. Such accrued benefit shall not be subject to increase by reason of future service or increases in earnings after December 3 1,1988. However, service rendered with the Company after December 31, 1988 will be counted
HAMILTON - 62 -
towards eligibility for vesting and early retirement under E.R.P., based on benefits accrued at December 31,1988.
4.	On retirement, death or termination of service after December 31,1988, benefits payable to former E.R.P. members will be determined in accordance with applicable provisions of that Plan.
5.	Effective from January 1,1989, the Company agrees to contribute to C.C.W.I.P.P. the sum of 35 cents per hour for all hours paid by the Company to seniority-holding members of the bargaining unit (hours paid shall include hours worked, vacation, observed holidays, sick days, jury duty, bereavement leave, paid time off for negotiations, etc.), up to a maximum of:
a) for plant and sales employees, 40 hours per week, or
(b) for office employees, 37-1/2 hours per week.
Effective from January 1,1993, the Company’s contribution will be increased to 41 cents per hour.
6.	Effective from Januaty 1,1989 until December 31,2003, the sum of 23 cents per hour shall be deducted by the Company from all hours for which payment is made by the Company to seniority-holding members of the bargaining unit, up to a maximum of:
(a)	for plant and sales employees, 40 hours per week, or
(b)	for office employees, 37-1/2 hours per week
7.	It is understood and agreed that the contributions listed in paragraphs KS and #6 hereof shall not apply to probationary, temporary, or part-time employees (as defined in the Collective Agreement), so long as they are so classified. However, when a regular, full-time employee completes his probationary period and achieves seniority standing, the Company will retroactively calculate the contributions (as set out in paragraph US hereof) with respect to such employee for the period from his last date of continuous employment to the completion of his probationary period and shall then remit such contributions in accordance with paragraph #8 hereof.
8.	Contributions, along with a list of employees for whom they have been made, the
HAMILTON - 63 -
amount of the weekly contributions for each employee, and the number of hours worked or paid according to the above paragraphs #5 or #6, shall be remitted to the trustees of the C.C.W.I.P.P. (the “Trustees”) by the Company within the fifteen (15) days after the close of the Company’s four (4) or five (5) week accounting period. The Company agrees to pay interest at the reasonable rate established by the Trustees on all contributions not remitted as stipulated above, not in excess of the rate established for all other employers participating in the C.C.W.I.P.P.
9.	The Trustees may allocate the employer and employee contributions at the direction of the Union provided that in the event that the Union or the Trustees receive notice from Revenue Canada, Taxation or its provincial counterpart or any successor thereto, that any Company contributions allocated at the direction of the Union or any part thereof are not deductible by the Company for the purposes of the Income Tax Act (Canada) or its provincial equivalents or threatening to challenge such deductibility, it is agreed that such notice will be immediately delivered to the Company. In the event of receipt of such a notice by the Company either delivered by the Union or the Trustees or direct receipt itself, the Company shall be entitled to direct the Trustees as to the allocation of the contributions made by it.
The Union hereby agrees to indemnify and save the Company harmless from any additional taxes or penalties (including any interest charges) which the Company may suffer or incur as a result of the allocation of contributions by the Trustees at the direction of the Union such that the tax deduction claimed by the Company in the ordinary course of its business for the contributions to the C.C.W.I.P.P. as a registered plan is denied by the applicable taxing authorities. Such indemnity will not be applicable if the denial of the deduction results from the Company seeking a ruling from Revenue Canada, Taxation as to the allocations.
It is agreed that the responsibilities of the Company under this Agreement are discharged by making such remittances within the period stipulated above. It is further acknowledged and agreed that the Company is not responsible for the administration of the C.C.W.I.P.P. or the payment of any benefits under the C.C.W.I.P.P.
10.	The contributions shall be for the purposes of providing such pension benefits for eligible employees as shall be determined from time to time by the Trustees of the C.C.W.I.P.P. pursuant to the terms of the C.C.W.I.P.P. It is agreed that the C.C.W.I.P.P. shall provide a past service benefit which shall be $10.50 per month for each yea: of past service, to a maximum of twenty (20) years. The cost of the past
HAMILTON - 64 -
service benefits is to be amortized over a fifteen (15) year Period.
11.	Given the mutual agreement of the parties, the Company agrees to sign a “Participation Agreement" and supply any other documents, forms, reports or information reasonably required by the Trustees to recognize its participation in the C.C.W.I.P.P. in accordance with the terms hereof and to permit the calculation of payment of benefits to persons who are subject to this Agreement.
12.	The arrangements set out herein shall remain in effect during the life of the above-mentioned Collective Bargaining Agreement and any subsequent Collective Bargaining Agreement which contains the same provisions.
13.	This agreement supersedes any prior agreement of the parties pertaining to the matters herein.
FOR THE UNION
T. Brooks _	c—'v
CUaQ-
R. Hammond
FOR THE COMPANY
/*	A a
	T)	
H. mJ		
HAMILTON - 65 -
LETTER OF AGREEMENT
BETWEEN:
UNTIED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION, Local 381W
-and-
COCA-COLA BOTTLING LTD. (Hamilton)
RE: Collective Agreement
Executed oaNasiemher 21,193.4
It is mutually agreed that the following arrangements will apply with respect to the Christmas/New Year holiday closings falling during the term of this Agreement.
199.4-95 Holiday
Day Before Christmas
Christmas Day
Boxing Day
Day of New Year’s Eve
New Year’s Day
Da:; After New Year’s Day
1995z96 Day Before Christmas Christmas Day . Boxing Day Day of New Year’s Eve New Year’s Day Day After New Year’s Day
1996-97 Day Before Christmas Christmas Day Boxing Day Day of New Year’s Eve New Year’s Day Day After New Year’s Day
Obsemed-Dale
Monday, January 9,1995 Tuesday, December27,1994 Monday, December 26,1994 Friday, January 20, 1995 Tuesday, January 3,1995 Monday, January 2,1995
Monday, January 8,1996 Monday, December 25,1995 Tuesday, December 26,1995 Friday, January 19, 1996 Monday, January 1,1996 Tuesday, January 2,1996
Tuesday, December 24,1996 Wednesday, December 25, 1996 Thursday, December 26,1996 Tuesday, December 31,1996 Wednesday, January I, 1997 Thursday, January 2,1997
In addition to the 1996-97 schedule, as indicated above, Saturday, December 28,1996 will be scheduled as a regularly scheduled day of work, (i.e. Article 9. OS shall not apply). In this
HAMILTON - 66 -
case, employees working on Saturday, December 28,1996shall have Friday, January 3,1997 off as a lieu day.
HAMILTON - 67 -