COCA-COLA REFRESHMENTS CANADA COMPANY
Hamilton (the “Company”)
Refreshments Canada Company
AND
UNIFOR LOCAL 973 (the “Union”)
u
UniFOR
Expires - September 8, 2016
00653 (10)
ARTICLE TITLE
paC.£
ARTICLE 1 - PURPOSE............................... .............1
ARTICLE 2 - RECOGNITION........................... .............1
ARTICLE 3 - REPRESENTATION......................... . ..........2
ARTICLE 4 - MANAGEMENT RIGHTS...................... ............3
ARTICLE 5 - NO STRIKES OR LOCKOUTS.............................. 4
ARTICLE 6 - UNION ACTIVITIES.....................................4
ARTICLE 7 - GRIEVANCES...........................................7
ARTICLE 8 - SENIORITY...........................................10
ARTICLE 9 - HOURS OF WORK - OVERTIME............................16
ARTICLE 10 - NIGHT SHIFT PREMIUM................................20
ARTICLE 11 - HOLIDAY PAY........................................20
ARTICLE 12 - VACATION...........................................22
ARTICLE 13 - LONG SERVICE LEAVE................................ 24
ARTICLE 14 - WORK CLOTHING..........!...........................25
ARTICLE 15 - BEREAVEMENT LEAVE................................  26
ARTICLE 16 - PAID TIME OFF..................................... 26
ARTICLE 17 - WAGES..............................................28
ARTICLE 18 - OPERATIONAL AND/OR TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE............30
ARTICLE 19-SAFETY...............................................31
ARTICLE 20 - WORK OF BARGAINING UNIT............................31
ARTICLE 21 - HEALTH INSURANCE PLANS.............................32
ARTICLE 22 - MATERNITY/PARENTAL LEAVE...........................33
ARTICLE 23 - TOOL REIMBURSEMENT.................................33
ARTICLE 24 - SOCIAL JUSTICE FUND................................34
ARTICLE 25 - PAID EDUCATION LEAVE...............................34
ARTICLE 26 - DURATION OF AGREEMENT..............................35
APPENDIX "A“....................................................36
HAMILTON
LETTERS OF INTENT & AGREEMENT
Re: Retirement Incentive Program ("Incentive Program")...............................37
Re: Employees' Retirement Plan.......................................................39
Re: Buy Back..............................:..........................................41
Re: Individual Preferences............................................................42
Re: Sales Equipment Service Technicians and	Trainee..................................44
Re: Long-Term Disability Plan.........................................................46
Re: CCWIPP Pension Plan and Collective Agreement......................................48
Re: Previous Service Increase.........................................................51
Re: Christmas/New Year’s Schedule.....................................................53
Re: Substance Abuse...................................................................54
Re: FSV Incentive Program.............................................................55
Re: Customer Interviews...............................................................56
Re: Cleaning of Front Offices.........................................................57
Re: First Fills.......................................................................58
Re: UNIFOR LOCAL 973 McMaster Children's	Hospital Fund...............................59
Re: Meeting with New Hires............................................................60
Re: “Pullback" Definition.............................................................61
Re:	Workplace Accommodations.........................................................62
Re:	Disability Dispute Resolution Process............................................ 65
Re:	Union Elections..................................................................67
Re:	Training Matrix for Equipment Service Trainee....................................68
Re:	Equipment Service Trainees.......................................................70
Re:	Minutes of Silence...............................................................71
Re:	IPT Layoffs......................................................................72
Re:	Women’s Advocate.................................................................73
Re:	Harassment & Discrimination in the Workplace....................................74
Re:	Ten (10) and Twelve (12) Hour Shifts.............................................75
Re:	Definitions of Key Terms.........................................................76
Re:	Base Plus Commission Compensation................................................77
Re:	Temporary Employees.............................................................78
Re:	Retiree Benefits.................................................................80
Re:	Payroll Letter...................................................................81
Re:	Hard Layoffs.....................................................................82
Re:	Alternative Distribution.........................................................83
Re:	Advancement of Pay While Off On Medical Leave Pending Approval of Benefits.......84
Re:	Signing Page Concerning Letters..................................................86
HAMILTON	ii
ARTICLE 1 - PURPOSE
1.01	It is the purpose of this Agreement to promote harmonious relations between the Company and its employees and to provide an amicable method of settling differences.
ARTICLE 2 - RECOGNITION
2.01	The Company recognizes the Union as the exclusive bargaining agent of the employees of the Company working at or out of its Rant in the City of Hamilton, save and except: Confidential Secretaries (3) to Sales Managers, Confidential Secretary to the Area Sales Manager, Sales Execution Specialists, Account Managers, Dispatcher, Plant Supervisors and persons above the rank of Supervisor.
2.02	The expression "outside employee" shall mean an employee in the category of sales representative, Delivery Driver, and IPT Driver.
2.03	The expression 'Inside employee" wherever used in this Agreement shall mean an employee who is not an "outside employee” or an "office employee".
2.04	An "office employee" shall mean an employee who performs duties of a clerical nature in the office of the Hamilton plant.
2.05	(a) A ‘probationary employee" shall mean a regular full-time employee who serves a
probationary period, which shall consist of sixty-five (65) days of actual work within a period of six (6) consecutive months. On completion of his/her probationary period, such employee shall be credited with seniority from his last date of hire prior to the date on which he/she completed his/her probationary period.
(b) A "probationary employee" shall have no rights under the seniority provisions of this Agreement and may be discharged for any reason prior to the successful completion of their probationary period, provided the Company does not act arbitrarily, discriminatory or in bad faith or in contravention of any provision of this Agreement. It is agreed that the standard for dismissing probationary employees as reflected in this section is a lesser standard within the meaning of the Labour Relations Act.
2.06	(a) A "temporary employee" shall mean an employee who is engaged by the Company to perform work on a temporary basis. A temporary employee shall have no rights under the seniority provisions of this agreement. Temporary employees shall not be used to the extent that they cause the layoff or, prevent the hiring of a full-time employee. A temporary employee who is reclassified to full-time shall be credited with seniority in accordance with the Letter of Agreement entitled, “Temporary Employees". Such employees shall not be required to serve a probationary period.
(b)	Vacations and paid holidays for temporary employees shall be paid in accordance with the Employment Standards Act.
(c)	Upon request of the Union, the Company will supply the Union with a temporary employee list showing the names, hire dates, current address and telephone number for all temporary employees. Such request can be made once in a three (3) month period.
HAMILTON
(d)
The Company will meet with the Union every six (6) months to review the previous years’ use of temporary employees. The Union will be provided with a listing of all temporary employees at this time.
2.07 All employees shall be notified, in writing, of the condition of their status as employees, either as fulltime, probationary or temporary, upon their hiring. Such notification shall be copied to the Union.
ARTICLE 3	- REPRESENTATION
3.01 (a)	The Company recognizes the Union as the exclusive bargaining agent of the employees as herein defined.
(b)	There shall be no discrimination or harassment against any employee by the Employer or the Union because of any prohibited grounds under the Ontario Human Rights Code or the Ontario Labour Relations Act, as amended from time to time, or because of membership, non-membership, or activity in the Union.
3.02 (a)	Every employee shall, as a condition of his/her continued employment, become and remain a member, in good standing , of the Union.
(b)	The Union agrees that it wil not refuse membership to any employee without just cause. Whenever an employee is suspended or expeled from membership the Union will give the Company, in writing, the reasons for such action.
3.03 (a)	Every employee shall, as a condition of his/her continued enjoyment, authorize the Company in writing to deduct from each pay payable to him/her thereafter during the life of this Agreement such amount as may from time to time be certified in writing by the Union to the Company as being the amount of Union Dues currently payable.
(b)	Every employee shall complete and sign an application for membership in the Union and an authorization for deduction from his/her pay of such amount as may at that time be certified by the Union to the Company as being the amount of the Union’s standard Initiation Fee. The application for Union membership and authorization for the deduction of initiation fees and dues shall be on forms supplied by the Union
(c)	Initiation Fees and Union Dues deducted by the Company shall be remitted to the Financial Secretary of the Union prior to the 15th day of the month folowing the month in which such deductions were made, together with such detail and explanations as may be reasonably required. The deduction statement shall contain the full name of the employee. The dues and Initiation report will be provided in the form of e-mail (Union to provide e-mail address) as wel as a hard copy of the dues report being attached to the remittance cheque. The Company agrees to record the annual dues on the employee's T4 form.
3.04 (a)	(i) The employer agrees that, whenever an interview is held with an employee that could become a part of his/her record regarding his/her work or conduct, a steward or union representative wll be present.
HAMILTON	2
(ii)	Where possible, prior to the interview referred to in (i), the employee and steward will be given an opportunity for consultation, if such is requested.
(iii)	When an employee is called into a meeting to be given a verbal or written warning, suspended or discharged, the steward shall be present. The reasons for such warning, suspension or discharge will be given at the time of the warning, suspension or discharge and will also be confirmed in writing. Such discipline shall be issued within ten (10) working days of the discovery of the alleged offence. An extension of time may be requested in order to complete an investigation; such request will not be unreasonably withheld. The Company will provide a copy of the disciplinary letter to the Plant Chairperson and steward. A discharged employee will be given the opportunity to meet privately with his/her steward before leaving the premises.
(b)	After a period of eighteen (18) months free of any warning or suspension, previous warnings or disciplinary actions will not be used in progressive disciplinary steps or in arbitrations, unless agreed otherwise by the parties.
(c)	Employees shall have the right to review their personnel record every twelve (12) months, in the presence of a manager, and outside the employees' hours of work. The employee shall request such ten (10) working days in advance.
3.05	Representatives of UNIFOR CANADA shall be permitted to visit the Company's premises to carry out the business of the Union, provided that the representative reports his presence to the Distribution Centre Manager or his designate. During such visits the Representative shall be alowed to meet with employees provided that such meetings do not unduly disturb the Company’s business. All persons who are not employees of the Company shall be required to sign in and out.
3.06	It shall be the responsibility of each employee to advise the Company or Agent of the Company regarding their change of address, phone number, dependants or marital status and beneficiary.
3.07	Once each quarter, at the request of the Union, the Company shall provide the Union with a listing of employees, including all regular, temporary and probationary, showing the last address and telephone number provided to the Company.
ARTICLE 4 - MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
4.01	The Union agrees that, subject to the restrictions imposed by law, the Company has the exclusive right to manage and operate its Plants and equipment and to carry on its business. The Union also agrees that, subject to the restrictions imposed by law or by the terms of this Agreement, the Company has the right to decide all matters relating to the terms and conditions of employment of the employees, including the duties and conduct to be required of them. The Company agrees that it will not discipline, suspend or discharge any employee without just cause. The Company further agrees that the Union and the employees shall have the right to grieve should the Company exercise any of its functions in violation of, or inconsistent with, any provision of this Agreement.
HAMILTON
3
ARTICLE 5 - NO STRIKES OR LOCKOUTS
5.01	There shall be no strikes or lockouts so long as this Agreement continues to operate. The terms "strikes" and 'lockouts" will have the same definitions as those set out in the Labour Relations Act of Ontario.
ARTICLE 6 - UNION ACTIVITIES
6.01	There shall be no Union activities during working hours which interfere with the duties of any employee unless permission is first obtained from the employee's immediate supervisor. Such permission will not be unreasonably withheld and all such time off during any employee's regular working hours shall be without loss of pay.
6.02	The Company will make available for the use of the Union one (1) bulletin board whereon the Union may post notices which it desires to bring to the attention of employees provided that no such notice may be posted at places other than these bulletin boards. No such notice may be posted until it has been signed by an Officer of the Union and by the Distribution Centre Manager.
6.03	Upon the written request of the Union, the Company will grant leaves of absence without pay to the employees named in such request to enable them to participate in Union activities. No such leave of absence shall be for a period of less than one day or more than seven days except that where a leave is granted to an employee to enable him to attend a Union convention, the maximum of seven (7) days may be exceeded to the extent of necessary travel time to the place of convention and return. No more than eight (8) such leaves will be granted in any one year of the currency of this Agreement and no more than three (3) employees may be absent on such leave at any one time. If the maximum of eight (8) leaves in any year of this Agreement has been granted, the Company will consider any further request for such leave in that year on an individual basis. The Union shall promptly reimburse the Company, the wages paid to such employee. The Company shall promptly bill the Union on the following schedule:
Bills that occur in January, February and March wi be billed by April 20(h,
Bills that occur in April. May and June will be blled by July 20'",
Bills that occur in July, August and September will be billed by October 20m, and Bills that occur in October. November and December will be billed by January 20th.
6.04	Upon the written request of the Union, the Company will grant a leave of absenoe without pay to any employee for the purpose of attending to Union business. Such leave of absence shall be for a period of not less than one (1) month and not more than two (2) employees shall be entitled to any such leave of absence at any one time. Where such leave is to be for a period of less than one (1) year, the Union shall specify the period to be covered. If the leave is expected to be required for a period in excess of one (1) year, it shall be treated as an indefinite leave of absence and the Company's approval of such leave shall be considered to continue throughout the life of this Agreement. To the extent that it is practical to do so, the Company will endeavour to arrange for the continuance of both Company and Government welfare benefits while an employee is absent on such leave.
6.05	With respect to employees granted leave of absence under the provisions of clause 6.04 above, it is agreed that on ihe written request of the Union:
HAMILTON
4
(a)	Each employee shall receive from the Company in respect of each day of absence on such leave, an amount equivalent to:
(0 the regular straight-time hourly rate then in effect for his employment classification, multiplied by eight (8) hours or ten (10) hours, as applicable
-LESS-
00 all deductions normally withheld by law from an employee’s pay and. if applicable, the employee's contributions to the Extended Group Insurance Plan and the Employee Savings and Investment Plan.
(b)	The Union shall promptly reimburse the Company for the sum of:
(i)	the gross amount of the payment calculated as set out in (a) (i) above,
- PLUS -
(ii)	any amount which becomes payable by the Company as a result of the Company having made to any employee a payment under the provisions of (a) above (e.g. Company contributions to the Employee Savings and Investment Plan, the Extended Group Insurance Plan. Employment Insurance, Government Pension Plan and Health Plan, etc.).
In the event of failure of the Union to so reimburse the Company, all payments to employees under (a) above shall immediately cease.
(c)	In consideration of the agreement of the Company to make payments as provided above, the Union agrees to indemnify the Company and save it harmless from and against any and all daims, payments, and costs of any kind which it may receive, make or suffer, cSrectly or indirectly, through having agreed to make and having made such payments, deductions and contributions or by reason of any imputed employment relationship which might be alleged to exist between such employee and the Company by reason of the making of such payments.
6.06	The granting of any leave of absence under dauses 6.03 or 6.04 may be refused by the Company when the granting of the same would be unreasonable having regard to the requirements of operations.
6.07	(a) Every Union Steward and every officer of the Union who is an employee shall be
allowed such time off as may be necessary to enable him/her to attend those appointments with management personnel at which his/her presence is required under the grievance procedure in order to enable him/her to give evidence at such hearing.
(b) Provided he/she is an employee, the Union Steward and the Chairperson shall be allowed such lime off with pay, as may be necessary to enable him/her to attend those appointments with management personnel at which his/her presence is required under the arbitration provisions of this collective agreement. In addition, the Company will pay the regular wages for employees called by the Union as arbitration witnesses, provided that such employees actually give evidence at the arbitration hearing on the day that they are off work at the Union’s request. The Union will act reasonably in all cases when making
a
HAMILTON
requests for employees to be released from work for purposes of their attendance at an arbitration hearing.
6.08
609
6.10
(c)	The Company will also be responsible for the wages for arbitration witnesses who would otherwise give testimony save for the Company making a preliminary objection, requesting an adjournment or seeking some other form of delay of which the Union was not previously notified, in the event that the Union is given advance notice of such Company position, the Union will only require those employees necessary for dealing with the preliminary issue to be absent from work. The Company wM pay the regular wages for the grievor to attend at arbitration in all circumstances, provided that the grievor is still an active employee of the Company on the date of the arbitration hearing(s).
(d)	Should a Union Steward or Union Officer be scheduled to be on duty during the time in which a regularly scheduled meeting of the general membership of the Union is to be held, such Steward shall (provided his/her request is made at least four (4) days in advance) be allowed such time off work as may be reasonably required in the circumstances to permit him/her to attend such meeting.
(e)	The allowing of time off under the provisions of this Article 6 shall be subject to the employee having obtained permission to leave his/her work from his/her Supervisor.
(f)	All such time off under the provisions of Article 6 during an employee's regular working hours shall be without loss of pay. However, the Company may discontinue paying for such time off, if, in its opinion, the privilege of requesting such time off under any provision of Article 6 is being abused.
(g)	When stewards are elected or otherwise appointed to such position, every effort shall be made by the Union to ensure adequate steward representation on all shifts and days of work.
At the request of the Union, the Company will grant time off, without loss of pay during the employee's regular working hours, to the President, the Vfce President, the Plant Chairperson, one (1) employee from the Inside seniority list, one (1) employee from the Outside seniority list to allow them to be members of the Union Negotiating Committee and to enable them to attend arranged meetings with Company representatives or with a Conciliation Officer for the purpose of negotiating a renewal of this Collective Agreement The Company will grant up to three (3) days, if necessary, of time off. without loss of pay, for the Bargaining Committee for the purpose of preparing for negotiations.
The Company will provide space for a Union Office.
(a)	The Company will provide the Plant Chairperson with eight (8) regular hours of pay per week to attend to Plant Chair duties.
(b)	The Company will provide a further three (3) days per month to be used by the President or the Financial Secretary to attend to Union business.
(c)	The Company will provide the Union Health and Safety Committee Representative, the WSIB/Placement Representative, the Women's Advocate and the Substance Abuse Representative with time off without loss of pay on an as required basis to deal with applicable issues.
HAMILTON
6
(d)	The Union-will request to the Company, in writing no later than the 15tJ1of the month, what calendar days they wish to use in the following month, as referred to in Article 6.10. The Company will review/respond to the Union in writing no later than the 22“ of that month. Once the dates are agreed to. if a change in date is required, the parties will advise each other of the change at least 5 working days in advance, such request for change shall not be unreasonably withheld.
6.11	It is understood that the taking of such time away from regular duties for each designate referenced in clause 6 above shall be kept to a minimum and that permission will not therefore, be unreasonably withheld. In addition, such designates will first seek permission from his/her supervisor prior to conducting such duties and will notify his/her supervisor upon return to work.
6.12	The Union Stewards herein referred to shall be employees of the Company and shall not be greater than six (6) in number. The Union will notify the Company in writing of the names of such stewards and wM also notify the Company of the names of six (6) alternate stewards who may serve in the absence from work of a regular steward. The Company will not recognize any individual as a steward until it has received such notification from the Union.
ARTICLE 7 - GRIEVANCES
7.01	The parties acknowledge the desirability of ensuring prompt, fair and final resolution of employee grievances. The parties' recognition of this principle has contributed stability and certainty to the grievance procedure. Accordingly the parties view any attempt to reinstate a grievance properly disposed of as contrary to the purpose for which the grievance procedure was established and violates the fundamental principles of collective bargaining.
However, in those instances where the National Union UNIFOR, by either its Executive Board, Public Review Board or Constitutional Convention Appeals Committee, has reviewed the disposition of a grievance and found that such disposition was improperly effected by the Union or a Union representative, Ihe National Union UNIFOR may inform the Coca-Cola Labour Relations Director in writing, that such grievance is reinstated in the grievance procedure at the step at which the original disposition of the grievance occurred.
It is specifically understood however, that the Company shall not be responsible for any liabilities which may have accrued from the date of the initial withdrawal of the grievance by the Union, up to and including the date on which the grievance is reinstated.
In addition, in those instances where the Company, by either its Director of Labour Relations or a Coca-Cola Refreshments Executive member, has reviewed the disposition of a Company grievance and found that such disposition was improperly effected by the Company or a Company representative, the Company may inform the National Union UNIFOR in writing, that such Company grievance is reinstated in the grievance procedure at the step at which the original disposition of the grievance occurred.
It is specifically understood however, that the Union shall not be responsible for any liabilities which may have accrued from the date of the initial withdrawal of the Company grievance, up to and including the date on which the grievance is reinstated.
HAMILTON	7
It is understood that the foregoing does not allow either party to nullify any settlement.
7.02
7.03
(a)	In this Agreement a "grievance" shall consist only of a difference concerning the interpretation, application, administration or alleged violation of any provision of this Agreement, including any question as to whether a matter is arbitrable.
(b)	Should any complaint or misunderstanding arise which is not a "grievance" as defined above and if the matter is not resolved with reasonable promptness, it may be taken up through the procedure provided herein for the hearing of grievances; it being understood and agreed, however, that such a matter shall not under any circumstances, be taken to arbitration.
(c)	If any question arises as to whether a particular difference is or is not a grievance within the meaning of this Agreement, that question may be taken up through the grievance procedure and determined, if necessary, by arbitration.
(d)	There shall be an earnest effort on the parties to this agreement to deal with grievances promptly through the procedures outlined below; however, time limits specified in the grievance procedure may be extended by mutual agreement in writing between the Company and the Union.
(e)	A grievance shall not be considered where the grievance originated more than fifteen (15) working days after the employee and/or the Union became aware of the circumstances or ought reasonably to have been aware of the circumstances giving rise to the grievance. For the purpose of this Article, Public Holidays, Saturday and Sunday shall not be considered working days.
(0 A Steward shall be permitted reasonable time off work without loss of his/her regular pay for purposes of investigating and processing grievances. Such time off shall be granted within 24 hours, excluding Saturdays and Sundays, unless a Steward is available at work on Saturday or Sunday. The steward shall first seek permission from his/her supervisor and wilt notify his/her supervisor upon their return to work. It is understood that the taking of such time away from regular duties shair be kept to a minimum and that permission will not, therefore, be unreasonably withheld.
INDIVIDUAL GRIEVANCE
An employee whotias'a complaint or a grievance will ordinarily discuss the matter with Ns immediate supervisor and if the matter is not resolved in that discussion, he may refer the question to a Steward for consideration. However, should the nature of the complaint or grievance be such that the employee prefers to refer it to a Steward first, then he may do so.
Step 1
If a complaint or grievance is referred by an employee to a Steward and if the Steward considers thal there may be a reasonable basis for the complaint or grievance, the employee and/or the Steward may refer the matter orally to the appropriate management representative within fifteen (15) working days of the time the grievor became aware, or should have become aware, of the event giving rise to the grievance.
Step 3
HAMILTON
8
If the complaint or grievance remains unsettled for three (3) working days after its presentation at Step 1 it will within a further five (5) working days be referred in writing at Step 2 by the steward in sufficient detail to define the issue, to the appropriate management representative (or his designate). Step 2 meetings shall be held on a bi-weekly basis, and the grievor and Steward may be present.
SteP 3
If the complaint or grievance remains unsettled for ten (10) working days after its presentation at Step 2, it may, within ten (10) working days after the hearing at Step 2 be referred in writing at Step 3, to the appropriate management representative. Within thirty (30) working days of the submission of a complaint or grievance at Step 3 the management representative (and/or such other persons, up to two (2) in number, as he may designate) shall meet with the grievor, the Plant Chairperson and President, the Steward and a National Representative, or his designate, to discuss the matter. The Company's decision will be given in writing, with sufficient explanations, to the employee and the Union within five (5) working days after such meeting.
7.04	QQLLEQIIVE GRIEVANCE
Should a group of two (2) or more employees who have a complaint or grievance based upon the same provision or provisions of this Agreement or upon similar facts, desire to have such matter dealt with collectively rather than as individual complaints or grievances, they may do so within the time limits outlined in 7.03, Step 1 herein. Such grievance or complaint shall commence at Step 3 of the grievance procedure.
7.05	COMPANYAJNION GRIEVANCE
Should any grievance or complaint arise directly between the Company and the Union it shall be submitted to the other party within the time limits outlined in 7.03 Step 1 herein. Such grievance or complaint shall commence at Step 3 of the grievance procedure.
7.06	SUSPENSION OR DISCHARGE
(a)	When an employee is to be suspended or discharged, the steward shall be present as outlined in 3.04 herein. The reasons for such suspension or discharge will be given at the time of the suspension or discharge and will also be confirmed in writing as outlined in 3.04 herein. The Company shall provide a copy of the disciplinary letter to the Plant Chairperson or designate.
(b)	Grievances relating to the suspension or discharge of any employee shall be submitted directly at Step 3 of the Grievance Procedure within the time limits outlined in 7.03 Step 1 herein.
7.07	APPROPRIATE MANAGEMENT REPRESENTATIVE
The "appropriate management representative" as referred to in the grievance procedures shall be as follows:
Step 1 Supervisor
Step 2 Department Manager or designate Step 3 Distribution Centre Manager or designate
7.08	gbievance hme limijs
The Company and Union agree that the time limits contained in the Grievance Procedure (Article 7) are discretionary in nature and are to be used as guidelines, except for the time limits to file a grievance at Step 1 and to refer a grievance to arbitration which shall be considered mandatory. Either party may request an extension of the time
HAMILTON
9
limits for referring a grievance to arbitration, in writing. Otherwise, the matter shall be deemed to be abandoned.
7.09	AgglTRATlON
Any grievance which is not satisfactorily resolved may be submitted to arbitration by the Company or the Union by notifying the other party in writing within thirty (30) working days of the written decision at Step 3 of the grievance prooedure of its intention to proceed to arbitration as provided for in Appendix "A’ hereto. It is understood and agreed that complaints and misunderstandings as referred to in dause 7.02 (b) hereof, shall not be arbitrable.
Any matter referred to arbitration as provided for in Article 7 hereof shall be heard by a single arbitrator who shall be chosen having regard to his impartiality, his qualifications in the interpretation of agreements and his famffiarity with industrial matters.
An earnest effort wil be made by both the Company and the Union to reach mutual agreement on the person to be requested to serve as arbitrator but if such agreement cannot be reached within fifteen (15) working days of the date of notice of arbitration, then the parties shall request the Minister of Labour for the Province of Ontario to make the appointment.
7.10	MEDIATION
The Company and the Union agree that there is a mutual benefit to the mediation process that has been developed and endorsed over the past several years. As a result, in addition to the regular arbitration procedure provided for herein, the Company and Union Chairperson or designate may, by mutual agreement, refer a grievance (s) to a mediation process. This process does not prejudice either party's right to pursue such grievance(s) at arbitration. The mediator will be selected by mutual agreement and the parties will equally share the cost of the mediator. In an effort to better appreciate the benefits of mediation, the Company and the Union agree to fully disclose all relevant facts of the grievance at the third step meeting.
All settlements reached in mediation will be final and binding between the Company, the Union and the employee(s) as per the terms of the settlement.
ARTICLE A - SENIORITY
8.01	(a) Seniority of an employee shall mean the length of his continuous service; after
completion of the probationary period as outlined in Article 2.05; with the Company in the Bargaining Unit covered by this Collective Agreement, except as provided in Articles 8.01 (b) and (c) below.
(b)	It is agreed that clause 8.01 (a) above shad not be applied to alter any seniority date which has been established prior to the effective date of this Agreement
(c)	An employee who is or has been transferred from the Bargaining Unit to a job with the Company outside the Bargaining Unit may only return to the Unit to 19 a vacancy which would otherwise be filled by a new hire. In such a case, the employee's seniority dale would be the date on which he re-entered the Unit
(d)	An employee who transfers from another CCR location of the Company as a result of that employee's work being transferred to the Hamilton location shall retain his/her seniority status at the Hamilton location determined using his/her
10
HAMILTON
seniority date from the transferred facility provided that facility has a reciprocal agreement.
8.02	For the purposes of this Article 8, inside employees, outside employees and office employees shal be considered as separate seniority groups.
8.03	Separate seniority lists shall be maintained by the Company for each of the seniority groups referred to in clause 8.02 above, showing the name and seniority date of each employee who has acquired seniority under this Agreement. If two or more employees are hired on the same day, the times of hiring will determine their seniority ranking.
These lists will be brought up to date every six (6) months and, at each revision, will be posted on the Union buletin board for a period of five (5) working days. During that interval, any employee whose name appears on the list for the first time may question his seniority ranking if he is in disagreement with it. If no written complaint is received by the Company within five (5) working days of the posting of a seniority list, the revisions contained in that list shall be deemed to be correct by all concerned.
A copy of each updated list will be mailed to the Union Office and a copy given to the Plant Chairperson.
8.04	An employee’s service with the Company shall be broken if that employee:
(a)	quits,
(b)	is laid off for a period of twenty-four (24) months or more,
(c)	is discharged and is not reinstated,
(d)	fails to return to work on the expiration of any period of leave granted by the Company unless excused by the Company, which shall not be unreasonably withheld,
(e)	is absent from work for more than three (3) consecutive working days without having notified the Company and received permission to be absent, which permission shall not be unreasonably withheld,
(f)	otherwise ceases to be employed by the Company.
8.05	In making transfers, promotions, demotions, layoffs, and recalls from layoffs, seniority shall govern, provided the employee can satisfactorily fulfil the normal requirements of the job
8.06	JQB POSTING
(a)	When a regular full-time job in the Inside or Outside seniority group becomes vacant, the Company shall post a notice of such job vacancy on the Union bulletin board for a period of five (5) working days. During that period, any regular employee in the Inside or Outside seniority group may make written application for the vacant job and all such applications will receive consideration in accordance with the provisions of Clause 8.05. For certain technical or highly skilled jobs (e.g. Equipment Service Trainee, Equipment Service Technician); the Company may require qualification testing prior to the applicant being considered for a job vacancy. The job posting will state the classification, function, shift, hours of work and rate of pay.
It is understood and agreed by the parties that an employee wishing to transfer between seniority groups under these arrangements must be capable of satisfactorily performing the work so made available to him. In keeping with that understanding, it is agreed that a two (2) week trial period shall apply from the date of transfer during which the transfer may be reversed, if so requested by the
HAMILTON
11
(b)
(c) <d)
(e)
(0
(g)
<h)
8.07	(a)
HAMILTON
employee or by the Company. In such case, the reverting employee may displace the employee who replaced him in his previous position and the Company will fill the position using the original posting.
The Company will select the successful appficant within five (5) working days of the dose of the posting period and wil within a further three (3) days, advise the employees in the seniority group concerned of its decision by posting that information on the Union bulletin board. The successful applicant wil begin their new duties no more than fifteen (15) working days following the dose of the posting period.
The job vacancies which may be created as a result of the selection of an employee under the provisions of 8.06(a) and (b) hereof shall also be posted in accordance with the provisions of those paragraphs.
If an employee was absent on vacation or an approved leave of absence not exceeding eight (8) weeks, excepting Maternity/Parental Leave, at the time of posting of a job for which he is qualified, he may apply for consideration for that job within five (5) days of his return to work, and if accepted by the Company, he shall then displace any employee previously selected to fill such vacancy.
Any job vacancy (or vacancies) which may be created as a result of the selection of an employee to fill a job vacancy posted under the provisions of 8.06(c) may be filled by the Company in accordance with the provisions of clause 8.05 hereof, but posting of such ensuing vacancy (or vacandes) shall not be required.
In the event that the Company has no employee in a seniority group who can satisfactorily fulfil the normal requirements of a job vacancy in that seniority group, and if there is, at that time, no qualified employee on layoff from any other seniority group covered by this Agreement who wishes to exercise the right of temporary transfer provided for in dause 8.09(d) hereof, the Company may hire a new employee to fill such vacancy. The Company may fill any vacancy, temporary, pending completion of procedures set out herein.
Where possible, the Company will provide personal preference in the assignment of regular duties. Selection for these assignments will be dictated by operational needs and will not be exerdsed in a discriminatory manner. It is agreed that it shall remain the sole responsibility of the Company to determine the number of experienced personnel required on any job or shift.
A copy of each job posting and notice of successful applicant will be given to the Local Union and copies of same will also be e-mailed to the Plant Chairperson or designate.
it is understood and agreed that the provisions of clause 8.06 shall apply only in the case of “permanent” vacancies. However, when there is a temporary vacancy in a seniority group (including vacancies created by the addition of temporary shifts), and the Company expects such work to be available for a period of four (4) or more working days, if on a 4 x 10 shift, or five (5) or more working days, if on a 5 x 8 shift, the Company shall, insofar as the requirements and efficiency of operations will permit, make such temporary assignment available to qualified employees on a seniority basis. For this purpose, seniority shall be recognized within the following seniority groupings:
12
ln§jd££m£loyees Warehouse Person Garage
Sales Equipment Service
Outside employees Sales Representative Delivery Driver Transport Driver
On completion of such a temporary assignment, the affected employee will revert to his regular job and/or shift, provided such work is available for him, or otherwise he shall be re-assigned having regard to his seniority and the provisions of this Agreement.
Where possible, the Company will provide personal preference for temporary assignments. Selection for these assignments will be dictated by operational needs and will not be exercised in a discriminatory manner. It is agreed that it shall remain the sole responsibility of the Company to determine the number of experienced personnel required on any job or shift.
In the event that a position which has been filled on a temporary basis should continue to be required for a period in excess of six (6) months, such position will thereupon be considered as a "permanent" position and shall then be posted as provided for in clause 8.06 hereof.
Notwithstanding anything herein contained, it is agreed that in making any temporary promotion in the outside seniority group the Company will, whenever practical, endeavour to give due consideration to the relative seniority of the available and qualified employees.
(b)	When in the judgement of the Company it is practical, appropriate and timely .to do so, the Company will endeavour to make available to employees who are likely to be candidates for a promotion (and who would otherwise be qualified for such promotion) or who are likely to be subject to layoff, the opportunity of receiving such training as may be necessary to enable them to satisfactorily perform the work so made available to them. An employee who has received such training shall not then be entitled to refuse an assignment to the position for which he has been trained.
8.08	DEMOTIONS
If, as the direct result of a reduction in the work force, one or more demotions should become necessary, it is agreed that the provisions of clause 8.05 hereof shall be observed. It is understood, however, that this clause 8.08 shall not apply in the case of an employee who is demoted as a result of his misconduct or his inability to satisfactorily perform the work required; ft being further understood, however, that if within two (2) weeks of receiving a promotion an employee requests to be relieved of his new responsibilities or is demoted due to his inabHity to satisfactorily perform such new duties, he shall be permitted to revert to his former position and in so doing may displace the employee who succeeded him in that position and the Company will fill the position using the original posting.
8.09	LAYOFFS
Whenever layoffs in a seniority group are necessary, they shall be accomplished as folows;
(a)	The Company shaN first layoff temporary employees and then probationary employees, if any, in that seniority group. If further reduction of staff is required, the Company shall then lay off regular employees in accordance with the
HAMILTON
13
provisions of clause 8.05 hereof, it being understood that, in this instance, seniority is reversed (i.e. the most junior man will be the first laid off). Once every six months, when an employee has been laid off for four consecutive days, and the employee is recalled, the employee may elect to refuse recall for an additional three (3) consecutive calendar days (i.e. total lay-off of seven (7) consecutive calendar days) for the purpose of being eligible to generate an El claim. Records of Employment shall be automatically supplied to Service Canada for all employees who are on layoff in accordance with Service Canada requirements. The Union will be provided with a weekly summaiy of layoffs.
It is mutually agreed that for the purposes of administration of the foregoing paragraph, the term "in accordance with the provisions of clause 8.05" shall mean that the following procedure will be observed:
(i)	any regular employee for whom work is not available may displace the less senior employee within the same shift and department, providing he has greater seniority;
-or-
(ii)	the employee displaced in (i) above may then displace the less senior employee whose job he is capable of satisfactorily performing within the same shift, providing he has greater seniority;
-or-
(iii)	the employee displaced in (ii) above may then displace the less senior employee within his seniority group whose job he is capable of satisfactorily performing.
A regular employee may displace a less senior employee in accordance with points (i), (ii) and (iii) above only if such employee can satisfactorily fulfill the normal requirements of the job occupied by the less senior employee.
(b)	An employee having seniority standing in the inside or Outside seniority group who is laid off shall have the option of:
(i)	displacing a temporary or probationary employee in the Inside or Outside seniority group, or
(ii)	if there are no temporary or probationary employees to be displaced, of displacing the less junior employee in the Inside or Outside seniority group,
provided that such employee submits a written request for such temporary transfer lo another Inside or Outside seniority group and is capable of satisfactorily performing the work so made available to him. It is understood that junior employees shall be laid off in sufficient numbers to permit the exercising of this option and that the resulting temporary transfer of more senior employees shall not become effective until the commencement of the next regular day of work scheduled for the employee to be displaced. The transferred employee will receive the rate of pay of the job to which he is assigned.
HAMILTON
14
Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions, if the Company is able to arrange the transfer between seniority groups without the one (1) day waiting period, it shall do so.
(c)	An employee exercising the option outlined in (b) above, shall retain his recall rights in his original seniority group. In the event of a layoff, the employee would be able to exercise his seniority.
(d)	The Company shall maintain a list of employees (other than probationary or temporary employees) laid off by it from each seniority group within the prior twenty-four (24) months and such list shall show the seniority of such employees. An accurate, up to date copy of the daily layoff list will be provided to the local Union Plant Chairperson. When workers are required for a seniority group, the layoff list for that seniority group wil be examined and, to the extent of the number of jobs available, the employees listed therein will be recalled from transfer or layoff in accordance with the provisions of clause 8.05 hereof. Such temporary transfers shall be subject to the provisions of clause 8.09(c) hereof.
(e)	Employees being recalled shall be notified by telephone as soon as is practical. It shall remain the responsibility of the employee to ensure that the Company has an up to date telephone number. The Company may recall employees in advance, but for employees being recalled on the same day as they are being expected to work, it is understood that for the day shift, telephone calls will be made no later than 9:00 AM. For all other shifts, telephone calls will be made in a window two (2) hour prior to the start of the shift to one-half (1/2) hour after the start of the shift. In the event that an employee is unable to be reached by telephone, the Company will move to the next name on the recall list. If after three (3) consecutive attempts to recall the employee on three (3) different days, the employee has not reported to work, the Company shall then send a registered letter to the employee notifying them of the recall. Failure to respond to the registered letter within five (5) working days of receipt shall result in the employee's name being removed from the seniority list. Prior to sending such registered letter, the Company shall notify the Plant Chairperson or designate.
(f)	Notwithstanding anything herein contained it is agreed that if an outside employee has not presented himself for assignment of the day's work prior to the time his shift is scheduled to commence he shall be considered to be unavailable for work on that shift and in such circumstances the layoff provisions set out above shall have no application.
(g)	It is mutually agreed that an employee who would otherwise be on layoff may request that part or all of such layoff period be regarded as annual vacation time and be paid accordingly. The Company will honour such requests, provided that the employee has sufficient unused vacation entitlement to accommodate the request
8.10 An employee covered by this agreement who wishes to transfer to another CCR location represented by any Bargaining Unit which has the same reciprocal language or similar transfer provisions may notify the Company in writing of his/her desire to do so. When following completion of the job posting procedures, a vacancy exists at such desired new locations, the employee requesting the transfer shall be offered the opportunity of filling the vacancy in preference to a new hire. On assignment to the new location, the employee will be credited with his original seniority date, provided, however, that he will not be permitted to exercise full seniority under the job posting procedure during the first
HAMILTON
15
six months at the new location. For purposes of this provision, employees will be classed as 'inside employees” or “outside employees”, and it is understood that in exercising this provision, the employee must remain within such current classification. It is also agreed that an employee wishing to accept a transfer under these provisions must do so within five (5) days of receiving the job offer and must report for duty at the new location within sixty (60) days of the job offer or such job offer may be withdrawn by the Company.
ARTICLE 9 - HOURS OF WORK - OVERTIME
9.01	The workweek shall commence at midnight Saturday-Sunday and all work performed in a shift or other similar work period (including any extension thereof) shal be deemed to have been performed in the same day in which the majority of hours are worked.
9.02	For the purposes of this Agreement, time worked shall be calculated in units of six (6) minutes and periods of work of less than six (6) minutes per day shall be disregarded.
9.03	(a) BASIC WORK WEEK
f he basic workweek tor regular full-time employees shall consist of either five (5) eight (8) hour days or four (4) ten (10) hour days. Temporary employees will be assigned work subject to Article 2.06 on an as needed basis. The Company does not guarantee, however, to provide work for any employee nor to maintain the work week or working hours presently in force. Employees on the 8 hour shifts will be scheduled for five consecutive days with two consecutive days off. Employees on the 10 hour shifts will be scheduled for four consecutive days with three consecutive days off. However, it is recognized that the consecutive days off may overlap work weeks. Further, this clause is not intended to guarantee two (2) or three (3) consecutive days off if changing the weekly shifts from one week to the next prohibits this. In the event of a permanent change in shift start time, the Company will provide affected employees two (2) weeks advance notice, in writing of the change.
(b)	LOST SHI FT MAKE-UP & PULL BACK (Articles (b), (c) and (d))
III 'UK! uvuiil lliara reyulai umployee'(including a probationary employee) has been laid off for at least one day during his scheduled work week, he shall have the option of displacing the least senior or a temporary employee who is scheduled to work in his department on one of his scheduled off days in that work week provided he is capable of satisfactorily performing the work required and provided that such shift is not scheduled to begin or end within eight (8) hours of the employee's regular shift. Such work will be performed at regular straight time hourly rates plus any night shift, Saturday or Sunday premium, if applicable.
(c)	If the Company has need to use a temporary employee on a Sunday, Monday or Tuesday, such work will first be offered to regular employees (including probationary employees) in that department who are not scheduled to work on that day. Such offer of work will be made on a seniority basis to such employees who are capable of satisfactorily performing the work required and provided such substitute shift is not scheduled to begin or end within 8 hours of the employee’s regular shift. If a regular employee accepts the Sunday, Monday or Tuesday
.	work, he will be paid straight time and his previously scheduled shift for that week
will be reduced by an equivalent number of days, starting from the last scheduled day of the week. If any employee hereunder works a combination of 8 and 10
HAMILTON
16
hour shifts in a week and such combination results in work being performed in excess of 40 hours in the week, the employee shall not be paid at the overtime rate for such excess hours worked in the week. Employees who wish to be offered such work wil be asked to sign a list maintained by the Department Manager indicating a desire to be called for such work. Only employees who sign such list will be called. Employees may add or delete their name from such list at their option.
(d)	In applying Article 9.03 (b) and (c), the Company will advise the appropriate employees either by telephone or in person of the opportunity to work a substitute shift. Employees must either accept or refuse the substitute shift when offered, if the employee fails to answer the phone call, he will be bypassed as if he had refused and the supervisor will continue calling the next employees by seniority. However, rf the supervisor is able to leave a message at the employee’s phone number, the employee may return the call to that supervisor and may claim an available substitute shift if it is still available at the time of the return call.
9.04	OVERTIME £AY
■Overtime at the rate of time and one half (1 Vi) of the employee's regular rate of pay will be paid for all hours worked In excess of an employee's eight (8) or ten (10) hour days or an employee's scheduled day off. Staffing shall be administered as per article 9.09 outlining the Priority for Staffing.
An employee who works on one of his/her scheduled days off will be compensated at the rate of time and one half (1 14) the regular rate of pay for all hours worked.
An employee who works on his/her second or third scheduled day off in a week will be compensated at the rate of two (2) times his/her regular rate of pay provided the employee has previously worked on one of their previously scheduled days off.
An employee, other than an employee whose regular schedule includes Sunday, shall be compensated for all hours required to be worked on Sunday at two (2) times the employee's regularrate of pay.
9.05	SATURDAY AND SUNDAY PREMIUMS
'd»eiy""W9Ulw tun. time "hourly "Wted ' employee who is regularly scheduled to work on a Saturday and/or Sunday shall, while so scheduled, be paid a premium as shown below:
For Saturday	$1.50
For Sunday	$1.75
for work performed by him and required by the Company, unless he is entiiled under the other provisions of this Article to be paid at the rate of time and one-half (1-1.5) or two (2) times his hourty rate, as the case may be, for work so performed by him and required by the Company. For the purposes of this Agreement, such premiums shall not be considered as forming part of an employee's hourly rate.
9.06	REPORTING PAY
iSheddiiianymempleyee who reports for work at his scheduled time, not having been previously notified to the contrary, shall be entitled to a minimum of four (4) hours pay at the rate of pay to which he would have been entitled for the work he had been scheduled to perform on that day, but it is agreed that he shall perform any suitable work for this
HAMILTON
17
four (4) hour period, if so required. However, R shall remain the responsibility of an employee who has been absent from work to check with the Company to deteimine if work is available before returning for work on that shift. If any employee is absent from work with approval on a Friday, it will be presumed that he will be available for work on the following Monday, unless he advises the Company to the contrary. Therefore, should such an employee be unable to report by Monday, he must notify the Company to that effect prior to his scheduled start time.
9.07	BREAKS
(a)	Every employee will be allowed one (1) paid rest period of fifteen (15) minutes during each one-half (14) shift. Rest periods will be arranged as near the midpoint of each one-half (14) shift as possible.
(b)	Where it is anticipated that an employee will perform additional work required by the Company for a period of two (2) hours or more immediately folowing his normal work period of eight (8) or ten (10) hours, he shall be granted a rest period of fifteen (15) minutes, with pay, as close to the commencement of the additional work as is possible or, at the employee's option, shall be paid for the fifteen (15) minutes.
(c)	A 30 minute unpaid lunch break is provided to Delivery Drivers, IPT Drivers and Equipment Service Employees to be used between the 4th and 61* hours of work but subject to meeting business and customer needs and legal requirements.
9.08	OVERTIME ASSIGNMENT
(a)	Pre-Scheduled Overtime
The Company will endeavour, in so far as the requirements and efficiency of operations will permit, to assign planned overtime work (i.e. overtime scheduled at least twenty-four (24) hours in advance) to employees who are not scheduled to work on that day.
It is understood that to facilitate the distribution of scheduled overtime work, employees must sign an "employees available for overtime" list Employees who sign the list for available overtime will have first priority for overtime opportunities over employees who did not sign the fist. The list shall be posted by 12:00 pm on Monday.
Employees who sign the list for overtime and refuse to work the overtime on three (3) occasions within a three (3) month period shall be excluded for overtime for three consecutive months from the last date of refusal. It is further understood that in the event that all overtime requirements cannot be rifled on a voluntary basis, such work may then be assigned (subject to applicable law) on a reverse-seniority basis to those employees in the appropriate seniority group who are capable of satisfactorily performing the work required. Scheduled overtime will be offered up on the following basis:
(i)	Such opportunity will first be made available on a seniority basis to those regular employees who normally perform the work at which such overtime is required. For this purpose, the expression "normally perform the work" shall be defined on the “inside” as Warehouse Worker (including Shipper/Receiver), Sales Equipment Service and Garage; on the
HAMILTON
18
“outside" as Sales Representatives, Delivery Drivers and Transport Drivers.; and
(a)	in the event that the Company's needs cannot be entirely satisfied in that manner, the overtime opportunity will then be made available on a seniority basis to other regular hourly rated employees in the same seniority group who are capable of satisfactorily performing the work required; and
(iii) In the event that the Company's needs are still not satisfied, the overtime opportunity may be offered to probationary and temporary employees in the seniority group after an offer and refusal by regular fall-time employees in both seniority groups.
(b)	Nothing herein shall prevent the Company from using temporary employees, properly employed under Article 2.06, to perform the work in order to avoid the necessity of pre-scheduled overtime, provided the temporary employee has worked fewer than 5 days in that week (or four days if employed on a 10 hour shift).
(c)	Any active employee who has been absent from work on a week in which overtime is available, and would be eligible for such overtime, the company will call to offer such overtime.
9.09	(a) Un-Scheduied Overtime
In the case of unscheduled overtime, other than overtime to be performed as a continuation of work in process, the Company will endeavour, in so far as the requirements and efficiency of operations will permit, to make such overtime available on a seniority basis to regular employees on the following basis;
(i)	in the appropriate department;
(ii)	then to regular employees in the appropriate seniority group;
(iii)	in the event that the Company's needs are still not satisfied, the overtime opportunity may be offered to probationary and temporary employees in the seniority group;
who are available on the Company's premises at the time such overtime is to Commence and who are capable of satisfactorily performing the work required.
(b)	If the unscheduled overtime work is for a pre-shift period, the overtime shall be offered and assigned in the same manner as above to employees on that Incoming shift,
(c)	In the event that all overtime requirements cannot be filled on a voluntary basis, such work may then be assigned (subject to applicable law) on a reverse-seniority basis to those employees in the appropriate seniority group who are capable of satisfactorily performing the work required.
(d)	it is agreed that the Company will not normally offer opportunities for overtime work if doing so may reasonably be expected to result in an employee working more than thirteen (13) consecutive hours. However, in the event that an employee should work for more than thirteen (13) consecutive hours (excluding unpaid meal breaks), he shall not be considered available for any assignment
HAMILTON
19
until eleven (t1) hours have elapsed from the completion of the overtime assignment. In such an event, the Company will make every reasonable effort to reschedule, by up to two (2) hours, the start time of the employee's next regularly scheduled shift so that he will still have the opportunity to work a regular eight (8) hour shift or regular ten (10) hour shift.
(e)	All overtime to be worked by employees must be approved, in advance, by the Company.
9.10	PRIQRITYFQB STAFFING
Where extra shifts are available, the priority for staffing those extra shifts will be as follows:
(i)	regular employees (including probationary employees) exercising rights under Article 9.03 (b);
(ii)	regular employees (including probationary employees) exercising rights under Article 9.03 (c);
(iii)	temporary employees engaged at straight time rates as contemplated in Article
9.08	(b);
(iv)	overlime as set out in Article 9.08 (a),
(v)	overtime as set out in Article 9.08 (e).
9.11	CALL-QUT
Where an employee has left the Company's Plant on completion of his day's work and is then called by the Company and requested to return to work at a time before the commencement of his next schedule day's work, such request shall constitute a "callout". An employee reporting for work on a "call-out"' shal be entitled to be paid for work performed by him outside his scheduled working hours at the rate of time and one-half (1 V$) times his hourly rate or four (4) hours' work at his hourly rate, whichever is greater.
ARTICLE 10 - NIGHT SHIFT PREMIUM
10.01	Every hourly-rated employee shall be paid a night shift premium of one dollar ($1.00) per hour for work performed by him and required by the Company after five (5:00) p.m. in a day and before five (5:00) a.m. in the following day, however, such premiums shall not be paid for any time worked in respect of which overtime premium is payable. For the purposes of this Agreement, such night shift premium shall not be considered as forming part of an employee's hourly rate. In the event of the introduction of four (4) by ten (10) work weeks, the above night shift hours will be revised accordingly.
ARTICLE 11 - HOLIDAY PAY
11.01	(a) The expression "holiday" wherever used in this Agreement shall mean any one of
the following:
DAY OF NEW YEAR’S EVE NEW YEAR'S DAY DAY AFTER NEW YEAR'S DAY FAMILY DAY GOOD FROAY VICTORIA DAY DOMINION DAY CIVIC HOLIDAY
HAMILTON
20
LABOUR DAY THANKSGIVING DAY DAY BEFORE CHRISTMAS CHRISTMAS DAY BOXING DAY
Regular employees shall be entitled to one (1) “Float Holiday." Such day shall be scheduled between the employee and his supervisor.
(b)	If a holiday should be declared by government which is not listed above and which is to be generally observed in the Province of Ontario, such holiday shall be observed and paid by the Company under the same terms and conditions as apply to the holidays which are listed above.
(c)	A regular full-time employee required to work on a day observed as a paid holiday shall be paid two (2) times their regular rate of pay. The “Priority for Staffing" shall be followed in assigning work for non-statutory paid holidays.
11.02	Should any of the holidays mentioned above fall on a Saturday or on a Sunday, the regular working day which is closest thereto will normally be designated as the holiday. If an employee should be scheduled to have one of his regular days off on a day designated as a day to be observed as a holiday, that employee shall be allowed to shorten their work week or opt for another day off with pay in lieu of the holiday with pay. For purposes of this Agreement, such lieu day will be considered as his "holiday”. If, however, any question should arise as to the day in the year to be designated as any one of the holidays mentioned above, the Company shall decide the question for purposes of this Agreement. If an employee should be scheduled to have one of his regular days off on a day designated as a day to be observed as a holiday, that employee shall be allowed another day off with pay in lieu of the holiday with pay and, for purposes of this Agreement, such lieu day will be considered as his "holiday". The Employer further agrees not to switch employees back to 5x8 to alter this clause.
Where it is expected that a regular ful time employee wiU be laid off on a day following a holiday listed in Article 11.01 and another employee or employees wfll accrue a lieu day as a result of the holiday, the employee who will accrue the lieu day will take the lieu day on the day following the holiday. To the extent that it is possible, the most junior employees who have accrued the above mentioned lieu days will take the lieu days in sufficient numbers to match the number of employees laid off.
11.03	Each employee who has completed his probationary period shall receive holiday pay for each such holiday, provided that he is at woik on his last regular workday before the holiday and his first regular workday after the holiday. An employee's holiday pay for each such holiday, shall be an amount equal to Ns regular hourly rate, multiplied by
*	8 hours if scheduled for a 5 x 8 hour work week
,	10 hours if scheduled for a 4 x 10 hour work week
*	7-1/2 hours for office employees
If, in the week in which the holiday falls, an employee works in two (2) different wage classifications, he will be paid for the holiday at the wage rate in effect for the classification in which he works on the day following the holiday.
HAMILTON
21
11.04	An employee who was absent on his last regular workday before and/or his ftst regular workday after the holiday will quality for holiday pay (as set oul in clause 11.03 above) if such absence:
(a)	is paid for under the provisions of clause 15.01 hereof (Bereavement Pay),
—or—
(b)	is paid for under the provisions of clause 16.01 hereof (pay for Jury or Witness Duty).
—or—
(c)	has been approved by the Company,
—or—
(d)	is due to a layoff which commenced not more than five (5) working days prior to the holiday or on the first work day after the holiday, provided, however, that such holiday pay shall not be payable if the employee is eligible for full or partial payment for the day on which the holiday is observed under any other da use of this Agreement or from any plan or fund to which the Company contributes (e.g. the Company's Extended Group Insurance Plan, Workplace Safety and Insurance Board, Employment Insurance, Government Pension Plan, etc.).
ARTICLE 12 - VACATION
12.01	The vacation year shall be the calendar year. Employees will not be entitled to vacation until after they have completed one complete calendar year of employment During the first year of employment, an employee shal be paid four percent (4%) of their earnings from their start date until December 31 st. During the first complete calendar year of employment, employees shall not be entitled to receive time off for the purposes of vacation, but may be granted a leave of absence without pay fa time off as required by the employee.
12.02	vacation entitlements will be taken in the year folowing that in which they were aocrued. The length of vacation to which each employee will be entitled will be governed by the total length of his continuous service with the Company, and wi be determined from the schedule in dause 12.04 below.
12.03	The amount of pay to which each employee will be entitled in respect of Ns vacation wil be determined in accordance with dause 12.04 below. The earnings on which the calculation will be based shall be total earnings from the Company for the calendar year of service in respect of which the vacation is granted induding any premium pay (overtime, night shift, etc.) and pay for time not worked (vacation, observed holidays, sick pay, etc.).
12.04	Schedule of Vacation With £ay Entitlement
Length of Service	Length of Vacation	%of Earnings Payable
1 but less than S yrs.	2 weeks	4%
5 but less than 10 yrs.	3 weeks	6%
10 but less than 20 yrs.	4 weeks	8%
20 but less than 30 yrs.	5 weeks	10%
After 30 years' service	6 weeks	12%
HAMILTON
22
12.05	If an employee's vacation pay calculated on the basis of his regular hourly rate, multiplied by forty (40) hourefor each week of vacation to be taken would be greater than the amount to which he would be entitled under clause 12.04 above, then he will be paid the greater amount If during the year of service in respect of which the vacation is granted, the employee has been absent from work (in the aggregate) for more than twenty-five (25) working days due to layoff, or for more than ninety (90) working days for any other reason other than an absence on WSIB), then vacation pay shall be calculated only on the percentage basis set out in clause 12.04 above. If, during any year of service, an employee has been absent for more than ninety (90) working days, (other than absence on WSIB) he may, if he so wishes (but only to the extent permitted by law) waive one or more weeks of his vacation entitlement for that year without reduction in the percentage basis (only) vacation pay for which he qualifies.
12.06	For the purposes of this Article 12, a week shall mean a period of seven (7) consecutive days, including Saturdays, Sundays, and holidays falling within the period of vacation.
1Z07 Should one or more holidays named in clause 11.01 hereof fall within the period of an employee's vacation he may, not later than 15 days before such vacation is to commence, request an additional day off, with pay, in lieu of each such holiday. Such lieu days will be granted during the months of January, February, March, April, October, or November only, but, subject thereto, the Company wtil endeavour to arrange for the day(s) off at a time suitable to the employee. If an employee does not so elect lime off in lieu of the holiday, then his pay for the week of vacation containing such holiday(s) shall be increased by twenty percent (20%) for each such holiday (per week). In the case of employees on regularly scheduled 4x10 hour shifts, his/her pay for the week of vacation containing such holiday(s) shall be increased by twenty-five percent (25%) for each such holiday (per week).
12.08	Employee’s may request in writing to have his/her vacation pay to which he/she is entitled, within two (2) weeks prior to his/her going on vacation.
12.09	(a) Employees who are entitled to either two (2) or three (3) weeks of vacation may
take up to two (2) weeks vacation during the period between the third Monday in May and the third Friday in September.
(b)	Employees who are entitled to four (4) or more weeks of vacation may take up to three (3) weeks vacation during the period between the third Monday in May and the third Friday in September.
(c)	The tentative list of summer vacations will be posted not later than January 31M of each year.
(d)	The vacation schedule will be finalized and a list of vacations posted on the Union bulletin board not later than February 28" of each year. Subject to the provisions of dause 12.09 (h) hereof, the schedule will not thereafter be changed without the mutual consent of the Company and the employees who would be affected.
(e)	Subject to the limitations of clauses 12.09(a) and (b) and to the terms of clause 12.09(g) hereof, preference in regard to the available vacation dates will be given in order of seniority.
HAMILTON
<f)
For the purpose of determining the choice of vacation periods (but for that purpose only), seniority shall be applied, within each seniority group, by shift (day and night) and by the following department groupings*.
Inside Employees Shippers & Receivers Warehouse Worker Garage
Sales Equipment Service Cooler Delivery
Outside Employees Sales Representatives Delivery Orivers IPT Drivers Full Service Driver
Office Employees
(g)	Notwithstanding the other provisions of this dause 12.09, it is agreed that:
(i)	if, following confirmation of the vacation schedule an employee receives, under the provisions of the job posting procedure, a change of job which places him on a different shift and/or in a different departmental grouping (as referred to in this dause 12.09), his vacation period(s) may then be rescheduled and will be subject to the prior preferences of employees already in the vacation grouping to which he is transferred, and,
(ii)	any vacation granted to an employee during a time when he is on temporary transfer to another job or shift shall be taken in accordance with the vacation schedule for the department/shifl to vtfiich he is temporarily assigned and shall be subject to the prior preferences of the employees regularly assigned to such department/shift; provided, however, that if such temporary transfer is a mandatory reassignment by the Company to meet the needs of the business, every affected employee's original vacation preferences will be accommodated.
(h)	It is agreed that this dause 12.09 shall not be construed as preventing the Company from granting vacation periods in excess of the minimum periods set out above, if it believes the particular drcumstances are such that this may be done without adversely affecting the requirements and effidency of operations.
t2.10 Every employee whose employment with the Company is terminated shall be paid outstanding vacation accrued from the previous calendar year plus the applicable percentage of earnings from the current year.
12.11	Notwithstanding anything in this Article contained, an employee, granted a leave of absence under the provisions of dause 6.04 hereof in any year of his continuous employment shall be granted and shall take a pro-rated vacation with pay in respect of the portion of that year during which he was not on such leave of absence.
ARTICLE 13 - LONG SERVICE LEAVE
13.01	In recognition of and appredation for long association with the Company, each employee who completes his 25th, 30th, 35th. 40th, or 45th year of continuous employment with the Company shall, on completion of each such fifth year of employment, qualify for a spedal Long Service Leave. Each such Long Service Leave will be of two (2) weeks duration and the employee will be paid for each week of such absence an amount equal to his regular hourly rate, multiplied by forty (40).
HAMILTON
24
13.02	Employees who have not attained their twenty-fifth (25th) year of continuous employment with the company by September 8, 2016 will not be eligible for the foregoing provisions after that date.
ARTICLE 14 - WORK CLOTHING
14.01	(a) Every employee to whom work clothing is provided for under this Article shall
wear such uniform during his/her working hours and must clean and maintain such clothing. All such clothing worn shall be the current uniform issue only. To facilitate this, regular full-time employees shall be allotted points which they can use to select items of work clothing on an annual basis.
(b)	The Employee may use his / her points to select items from the table below, subject to and inclusive of the yearly requirements. Excess points may be used by the employee at his / her discretion to fulfill their uniform needs.
(c)	There shall be no carry-over of unused points.
14.02	Regular fufl time seniority group employees shall receive annually 230 points for work clothing (exclusive of safety footwear).
14.03	In addition to the above noted point allocation; the following classifications shall receive the following allotments:
Service Technidans/Drivers/I.P.T. - One (1) Parka in Year 1 of the contract or one (1) three in one jacket in Year 1 of the contract.
Order Builder, Forklift, Shunter. Cleaner (outside) - One (1) Parka or one (1) three-in-one jacket in Year 1 of the contract.
Fleet Mechanic - Up to Five (5) Coveralls in Lieu of Shirts and Pants in Year 1 of the contract. One (1) Parka or one (1) three-in-one jacket in Year 1 of the contract.
14.04	Temporary employees shall receive a Company clothing issue of four (4) t-shirts and one (1) hat in each year of the contract and will be required to purchase pants and or shorts in accordance with the Company uniform standards.
14.05	New regular hill-time employees will be issued work clothing as soon as practical and such issue will be a full year's entitlement as set out above but must include at a minimum five (5) trousers or up to five (5) shorts, four (4) shirts long or short sleeve, one (1) ball cap or toque, and four (4) t-shirts or two (2) t-shirts one (1) jacket and one (1) sweatshirt.
14.06	When a regular employee qualifies for issue of safety boots he may purchase approved safety boots or shoes from the supplier of his choice. On presentation to the Company of evidence of purchase of approved boots, the Company will reimburse such employee up to the maximum safety boot allowance of $175.00 per employee, per year. Any cost in excess of the alowance shall be paid by the employee. To meet the required safety standards, all such footwear must have steel toe caps and puncture resistant soles (green patch) and any additional safety footwear purchased for at-work wear must meet the same specifications.
HAMILTON
25
Probationary employees are required to purchase their own approved safety footwear and will receive the allowance on successful completion of their probationary period and appointment as a regular employee.
Temporary employees are required to provide their own approved satiety footwear. However, if a temporary employee is accepted as a regular employee he wil, on reclassification or on completion of his probationary period, whichever is later, be paid the safety footwear allowance.
14.07	The point values for work clothing shall be as follows:
?
i
i
Article
Pleated Pants Non-pleated Pants Shorts
Cargo Shorts Carao Pants
Long Gleeve'Shirt-------
Short Sleeve Shirt
T-Shirts
Golf Shirt
Coveralls
(Garage and
Eauioment Service Onlvl
Rain/Wind Jacket
Rain/Wind Pants
Ball Cap
Toque
Sweat Shirt
■»3-in~t"Jaeket-----——
Parka
I Point Value ! 20 20 20 25 30
”-*20--------
I
20
to
20
40
60
30
10
10
30
100
70
I
K
I
"i
K
I
I
ARTICLE 15- BEREAVEMENT LEAVE
15.01	In the event of the death of a regular full-time employee’s wife, husband, child, father, mother, brother, sister, mother-in-law or father-in-law, that employee will be allowed three (3) consecutive working days off with pay. In the event of the death of an employee's grandmother, grandfather, grandchild, brother-in law, sister-in-law, daughter-in-law or son-in-law. that employee wi be allowed one (1) day off, with pay, to attend the funeral. It is further agreed that these provisions shall be interpreted to include step relatives and common-law spouses and same-sex partners. It is also agreed that the bereavement leave referred to above may be increased by up to two (2) days travel time if such additional time is warranted in certain circumstances and approval is obtained in advance of departure. This is subject to proof of travel.
ARTICLE 16 - PAID TIME OFF
16.01 Jury Duty
An..employee who is called fa Jury Duty or who is subpoenaed to appear in Court as a
witness will receive for each day of necessary absence on that account the difference between his regular earnings fa that day and the amount of the fee received from the
HAMILTON
26
Court, provided that the employee furnishes the Company with a certificate of service and satisfactory evidence as to the amount of fee received.
16.02	Sick Pav
Employees absent from work due to illness shall be required to report such illness to their immediate supervisor, in advance, according to the procedures for reporting such absence established in the employee's department. Employees will report in advance of one (1) hour.
(a)	Every regular employee who has completed one or more years of continuous employment with the Company shall be entitled, in each year of the life of this Agreement, to payment for tp to six (6) days of absence due to bonafide illness, (in the event that an employee commences work but becomes ill during the course of the day and does not complete his scheduled shift, such part day of absence will, for the purpose of this clause 16.02, be counted as one-half (Vi) day of absence due to illness). Such payments shall be in an amount equal to one-hundred per cent (100%) of the employee's regular rate of pay as of the first day of the contract year and any unused credits shall be paid to the employee within thirty (30) days of the end of that contract year.
(b)	The sick pay credit of a regular employee who has not completed a ful year of continuous employment with the Company shall be computed on the basis of a one-half (VS) day credit for each completed month of continuous employment.
(c)	No payment shall be made under this clause 16.02 for any day of absence in respect of which the employee is eligible for foil or partial payment under any other clause of this Agreement or from any plan or fond to which the Company contributes (e.g. the Group Insurance Plan. WSIB, Employment Insurance, Government Pension Plan, etc.).
(d)	An employee who. at the conclusion of the contract year, has any unused sick pay credit(s) shall receive a payment equal to one-hundred per cent (100%) of his regular rate of pay for all unused credits.
(e)	An employee who achieves perfect attendance (i.e. takes no sick days) shall receive a payout of 125% of hisfher accrued sick pay. Such payment will also tie made by March 1s* of the following year. Perfect attendance excludes days lost due to Workers Compensation and any other approved leaves for bereavement, jury duty or other approved time off (e.g. vacation or statutory holiday pay.)
(f)	Notwithstanding the foregoing, an employee scheduled for a four (4) by ten (10) hour work week shall draw sick pay in units of eight (8) hours for each day of absence, up to the annual maximum of forty-eight (48) hours of paid absence due to illness.
16.03	£& Work Accidents
Wheseawaiwpleyee is the victim of an accident while at work and so suffers an injury requiring professional medical attention, the Company agrees that he shall suffer no loss of earnings on (he day of the accident by reason of his necessary absence from work to receive such treatment.
16.04	If, after recovery from an at work accident or illness accepted by the Workplace Safety and Insurance Board, an employee is unable to perform his former duties, and if there is.
HAMILTON
27
at that time, a regular job in his seniority group which is either vacant or held by an employee having less seniority, such employee shall, if he is capable of satisfactorily performing the required duties, be transferred to such position. If there is no regular job within his seniority group which he is capable of satisfactorily performing, the Company will consider a request for transfer to the other seniority group at his Plant if there is, at that time, a regular job which is vacant and if he is capable of satisfactorily performing the duties required.
ARTICLE 17 - WAGES
17.01	Inside Employees:
The following wage rates shall be provided to al regular full time employees:
“Inside" Employees Wage Rates	Sep 7, 2013	Sep 7, 2014	Sep 7,2015
Warehouseperson	27.15	27.65	28.15
SaTesEquipmenf Service Trainees, Cooler Delivery	27.25	27.75	28.25
Shippers & Receivers	27.74	28.24	28.74
"'Sales Equipment Servicemen	28.94	29.44	29.94
Journeyman Automotive Maintenance Men	33.18	33.68	34.18
* Note: All regular employees who have completed their probationary periods.
The Job Rate for a Lead Hand will be determined by adding a wage differential of eighty cents ($.80) per hour to the Job Rate shown above for the highest classification of work normally performed by »he men regularly led by that Lead Hand.
17.02	Outside Employees:
The following wage rates shall be provided to all regular full time employees:
"Outside" Employees Wage Rates
Delivery Sales
Delivery Drivers,
IPT Driver
Sep 7, 2013 26.99 28.88 *
Sep 7, 2014 27.49 29.38
Sep 7, 2015 27.99 29.88
* Note: Ail regular employees who have completed their probationary periods.
17.03	It is understood and agreed that the Company, in hiring any new employee other than temporary employee, may pay him;
HAMILTON
28
(a)	until the commencement of the first week following the completion of his probationary period, at a rate three dollars fifty cents ($3.50) per hour less than the Job Rate of the job to which he is assigned, and
(b)	thereafter and until the commencement of the first week following the completion of his subsequent three (3) months of continuous employment, at a rate one dollar seventy-five cents ($1.75) per hour less than the Job Rate of the job to which he is assigned, and
(c)	thereafter at the Job Rate of the job to which he is assigned.
17.04	Temporary Employees:
It is understood and agreed that the rate for temporary employees (as defined in dause
2.06 hereof) wi be as follows:
"Temporary" Employees Wage Rates
Sep 7,2013
Sep 7. 2014
Sep 7, 2015
Temporary warenousepereon
i emporaiy unvers--------
TC9ST
7T3T
19.49
Tnrr
19.99
7TTT
17.05	(a) Where an Inside or Outside employee is temporarily transferred to a job which carries a higher rate of pay than the job from which he was transferred and provided that he remains in such higher rated job for a period of more than one (1) hour, he shal be paid at the higher rate for al time worked in such higher rated job.
(b) It is understood and agreed that the Company in assigning an office employee a job in a Wage Bracket to fill a temporary vacancy of more than four (4) hours per day in another job in a higher Wage Bracket shall pay him at the job rate for the higher rated job for all time worked in such hi gher rated job.
17.06	Where an employee is temporarily transferred to a job which carries a lower rate of pay than the job from which he was transferred and while work is available for him in the job from which he was transferred, he shall continue to be paid at the higher rate. Where, however, there is no work available fa him in the job from which he was transferred, he shall be paid at the rate of the job to which he was transferred.
17.07	In all cases of permanent transfers, the transferred employee will be paid the rate of the job to which he is transferred.
17.08	As per Letter of Agreement #21 • Equipment Service Technicians and Trainees, the Wage Scale for an Equipment Service Trainee shall progress as follows:
HAMILTON
29
Yeari		Year 2	Year 3
Successful completion of Module 1 - Coolers	$27.67	$28.17	$28.67
Successful Completion of Module 2 - Venders	$28.08	$28.58	$29.08
Successful Completion of Module 3 - Fountain	$28.51	$29.01	$29.51
Successful completion of Module 4 - Major Fountain	$28.94	$29.44	$29.94
ARTICLE 18 - OPERATIONAL AND/OR TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE
18.01	(a) if the Company wishes to make a technological change in its operations which would have the effect of abolishing existing job classifications or creating new job classifications or which would result in the layoff of any regular employee, the Company agrees that, before introducing such technological change, it will meet with the Union to discuss the matter and to attempt to resolve the problems created by such technological change, as wefl as to attempt to lessen the impact of such technological change on the employees affected.
(b)	if, as a result of a technological change in the Company's operations, an employee is assigned to a job having a lower rate of pay than the rate of pay he formerly received, he shall continue to be paid at his former rate of pay until the job rate for his new classification equals his former rate.
(c)	if a regular employee should be displaced from his job by reason of a technological change in the Company's operations, and provided the employee has the necessary qualifications to perform the work available after a reasonable training period, the Company shall arrange, where feasible, for him to receive such training.
(d)	In the event of a plant closing or sale, any employee who then has seniority standing shall:
(i)	If he has more than five (5) years seniority, be offered employment by seniority in the comparable seniority group at other Ontario plants, or
(ii)	if he has less than five (5) years seniority, be given preferential hiring rights (for a period of eighteen (18) months following such dosing) in the comparable seniority group at other plants in Ontario;
provided, however, that such employee can satisfactorily fulfl the normal requirements of the job which is so made available to him.
(e)	Should any major operation currently being performed by the bargaining unit be transferred from a location covered by this Agreement to another company location or a related Company location within fifty (50) mile radius of Hamilton, then the employees who have been performing this work shall, to the extent required, be transferred to the new location, with full seniority, if they so desire. Such transfer shall not be unreasonably denied.
HAMILTON
30
If the location to which the work is moved is a non-union facility, and if the employees transferred under this provision represent a majority of employees at the new location, the Union will be recognized as representing all employees in a like bargaining unit at such location and the terms and conditions of this Agreement will be deemed to apply to them for the balance of its duration.
(0 If, as a result of the movement of work in (e), a seniority employee does not immediately have the opportunity for regular full time employment at either the new location or Hamilton, such employee will be entitled to elect an enhanced severance provision. The enhanced severance shall be a lump sum of $20,000 for employees with five or fewer years of service; $30,000 for employees with 6 to 10 years of service and $40,000 for employees with more than 10 years of service. The above severance provisions are inclusive of any entitlements under the Employment Standards Act. Employees electing to receive this severance provision will immediately forfeit any and all seniority, benefit and/or employment rights at any and all Company facilities. For the purposes of determining an employees “service date” the date used to determine their vacation eligibility will be utilized.
(g)	If the company intends to close the Hamilton facility during the life of this agreement it will provide the union with one hundred and fifty (150) days' notice thereof to permit the parties to meet and d iscuss the closure and ways to minimize the effect of same on members of the bargaining unit.
ARTICLE 19-SAFETY
19.01	The Company will make all reasonable provisions for the health and safety of the employees during working hours and will furnish adequate facilities and equipment for that purpose. The Company and the Union mutually agree that employees should be encouraged to co-operate in the maintenance of healthy and safe working conditions, in the proper use of protective clothing and equipment, and in the observance of al safety rules.
19.02	To further the above-mentioned objectives, it is mutually agreed that a Joint Health and Safety Committee shall be maintained. The members of such Committee shall receive training appropriate for their responsibilities. The Committee shall be comprised of three (3) members from the Union and three (3) members from the Company. The Joint Health and Safety Committee (JHSC) shall have two co-chairs; one from the Union and one from the Company, both of whom shall be certified members.
19.03	All new temporary employees will receive Health & Safety training as relevant to their job function.
ARTICLE 20 • WORK OF BARGAINING UNIT
20.01	Excluded Personnel will not normally perform work customarily performed by employees in the bargaining unit, except:
(a)	as a result of urgent or emergency conditions,
(b)	for the purposes of demonstration or training, or
(c)	when a regular employee is not available due to being late for work or absent from work and a suitable replacement is not available.
HAMILTON
31
20.02 (a)
The Company agrees that if the contracting out of any work normally performed by employees in the bargaining unit would result in the layoff of any regular employee, the Company will meet with the union to discuss ways and means of reducing the impact of such change on the employee(s) to be affected.
(b)	The Company also agrees that it will not, during the life of this Agreement, extend its present practices with respect to the contracting out of work, provided that the Company has the capability ft.e. the facilities, equipment and/or required workforce skils) to perform such work within the bargaining unit without serious impairment to the normal efficiency of operations.
(c)	If the Company plans to contract out work beyond that permitted by (a) or (b) above, it will give the Union written notice of such intention.
The parties shall meet immediately thereafter, at which time the Company wil provide particulars of the proposed contracting. The parties will attempt to agree on ways to minimize the impact of the contracting on the bargaining unit employees and/or will attempt to seek mutually acceptable arrangements which will produce comparable business results for the Company.
Any arrangement mutually agreed upon at or folowing these discussions shall not be considered a violation of this Article.
If the parties foil to reach agreement on the contracting out of the work in question or a comparable solution within thirty (30) days of the notice given above, then this Collective Agreement shall terminate on the laker of the thirtieth (30th) day following that notice and one (t) year from the date that the Agreement commenced to operate. In such event, both parties agree to make a joint application to the Ontario Labour Relations Board under Section 53(3) of the Labour Relations Act to seek the consent of the Board to such early termination. At the same time, either parly may deliver notice to bargain pursuant to Section 54 of the Act pending receipt of the Board's consent.
The Company shall not extend its current practices of contracting out except under the terms of (a) or (b) above, unless it is with the agreement of the Union.
ARTICLE 21 - HEALTH INSURANCE PLANS
21.01	(a) It is. agreed that, subject to any future legislation affecting such matters, the Company's Extended Group Insurance Plan (which provides Life, Major Medical, Weekly Income and Dental Care Benefits) will be continued in force:
With respect to the foregoing benefits, it is recognized and agreed by the Parties that the Company will provide the following benefits through an insurance carrier and will, in no circumstances, be considered as the insurer, and will be obliged hereunder only to pay the premiums for these benefits.
Life Insurance
Life Iweurenee coverage is $60,000.
Weekly Ingome Benefits
The Weekly Inaerea Benefits is sixty-six and two-thirds percent (66-2/3%) of regular straight-time weekly earnings to a maximum of six hundred and fifty ($650).
HAMILTON
32
Accidental Death ^Cii Dismemberment cawap df^T20;P0D(Siff975ed\r6fagb)
calendar yea
Denu_^^
The calendar year maximum Preventative/Major Treatment benefit per individual is $2,000 and the ifetime maximum Orthodontic Treatment benefit is $3,000 per child.
Supplemental Medical Plan:
Annual Maximum:
An annual maximum of $20,000 is provided for drugs and other eligible expenses combined,
Prescription Drug Coverage:
The prescription drug benefit provides for reimbursement of one hundred percent (100%) of eligible expenses.
The Vision Care benefit will provide a maximum reimbursement of $275 paid per insured family member in each twenty-four (24) month period. Such amount may be applied to laser eye surgery.
Coverage for Speech Pathologist of $750.00 paid per calendar year.
Coverage for Psychologist of $400 paid per calendar year.
Coverage for Chiropractic of $350 paid per calendar year.
Coverage for Osteopath/naturopath/Podiatrist $350 paid per calendar year. Coverage for Orthopaedic Shoes $300 paid per calendar year.
(b)	Details of the Long Term Disability Plan are set out in a Letter of Agreement attached hereto.
(c)	The Company wl continue to pay the ful premium for Life, Supplemental Medical Coverage, Weekly Income Benefit premium and Dental Care premium.
21.02	It is further agreed that, in consideration of improvements contained in this and prior Agreements, and subject to the provisions of the Employment Insurance Act. the Company shall retain in full any "Premium Reduction" which is or may become available from the Employment Insurance Commission upon their continued acceptance of the Company's plan of Weekly Incofne Benefits as a "qualifying registered plan".
ARTICLE 22 - MATERN1TY/PARENTAL LEAVE
22.01	Maternity and Parental Leaves shall be granted to employees in accordance with the Employment Standards Act, (RSO 2000).
ARTICLE 23 - TOOL REIMBURSEMENT
23.01	Fleet Maintenance employees shall maintain their own tool kits. Upon presentation of an original receipt for expenses, the Company will reimburse employees in the above
HAMILTON
33
classification ip to an annual maximum of $500.00 for the purchase, repair or replacement of required work tools.
23.02	The Company will provide to every new Equipment Service Technician a standard set of necessary job related tools. Thereafter, upon presentation of an original receipt for expenses, the Company will reimburse each Equipment Service Technician up to an annual maximum of $240 from which they may replace worn, broken or lost worfc-required tools. Any expenses in excess of the annual $240 reimbursement shall be the sole responsibility of the Equipment Service Technician.
23.03	There shall be carry-over from year to year of the reimbursement provided for the life of the Collective Agreement.
ARTICLE 24 - SOCIAL JUSTICE FUND
24.01	The Company will contribute one cent ($.01) per hour per employee to the C.A.W. Social Justice Fund. Such monies will be paid on a quarterly basis into a trust fund established by the CAW - Canada, and sent by the Company to the CAW Social Justice Fund, Box 897, Port Elgin, Ontario, N0H 2C0.
ARTICLE 25 - PAID EDUCATION LEAVE
25.01	The Company agrees to pay into a special fund three cents ($.03) per hour per employee for all compensated hours for the purpose of providing paid education leave. Said paid education leave will be for the purpose of upgrading the employee's skills in all aspects of Trade Union functions. Such monies will be paid on a quarterly basis into a trust fund established by the CAW - Canada, and sent by the Company to the CAW Paid Education Leave Program, Box 897. Port Elgin, Ontario, N0H 2C0.
25.02	The Company further agrees that, provided approval is sought and obtained at least thirty (30) days in advance of such absence, members of the bargaining unit, selected by the Union to attend such courses will be granted a leave of absence without pay for twenty (20) days of class time, plus travel time where necessary. Said leave of absence to be intermittent over a twelve (12) month period from the first day of leave.
25.03	Employees on Paid Education Leave will continue to accrue seniority and benefits during such leave.
HAMILTON
34
ARTICLE 26 - DURATION OF AGREEMENT
26.01	This Agreement shall remain in force and effect from September 7. 2013 to September 8,2016 until all provisions of the Ontario Labour Relations Act have been expended.
26.02	Either party may give the other party notice of renewal and/or amendment of the Agreement at any time within ninety (90) days prior to the expiry of this Agreement.
FOR THE UNION	FOR MANAGEMENT

HAMILTON
35
APPENDIX "A
Any matter referred to arbitration as provided for in Article 7 hereof shall be heard by a single arbitrator who shall be chosen having regard to his/her impartiality, his/her qualifications in the interpretation of agreements and his/her familiarity with industrial matters.
An earnest effort will be made by both the Company and the Union to reach mutual agreement on the person to be requested to serve as arbitrator but if such agreement cannot be reached within fifteen (15) working days of the date of notice of arbitration, then the parties shall make joint application to the Ontario Ministry of Labour for a list of arbitrators and shad proceed with the selection of an arbitrator under the provisions of the Ontario Labour Relations Act.
The Company and the Union shall each be responsible for one-half (112) of the expenses of and fees payable to the arbitrator.
The rules of arbitration set out below shall govern the conduct of any arbitration proceedings hereunder.
RULES OF ARBITRATION
1.	Arbitration shall be held at the City of Hamilton in the Province of Ontario.
2.	In any arbitration:
(i)	in the case of an Individual Grievance, the written representations of the employee made at Step 3 and the written decision therein of the Company representative shall be presented to the arbitrator and the award of the arbitrator shall be confined to determining the issue therein set out.
(ii)	in the case of a Collective Grievance or a Company/Union Grievance, the submission in writing by one party and the written reply of the other parly shall be presented to the arbitrator and the award of the arbitrator shall be confined to determining the issue therein set out.
3.	The findings of the arbitrator as to the facts and as to the interpretation, application, administration or alleged violation of the provisions of this Agreement shall be conclusive and binding upon the Company, the Union and the employees. In any arbitration hereunder the presumption shall be until the contrary shall have been proven that the provisions of this Agreement have been complied with.
4.	The arbitrator shall not be authorized to alter, modify or amend any part of this Agreement or to substitute his/her opinion or judgement for that of the Company; provided, however, that this restriction is in no way intended to limit the scope of action provided to the arbitrator under Section 37(8) of the Ontario Labour Relations Act with respect to grievances concerning discharge or discipline. 5 6 7
5.	Each party to an arbitration shall be entitled, through counsel or otherwise, to present evidence, to cross-examine the witnesses of the other party and to present oral arguments. Briefs of argument may be presented by each paily and each party shall be entitled to reply to the brief of argument presented by the other.
6.	Witness fees and allowances shall be paid by the party calling the witness.
7.	No costs of any arbitration shall be awarded to or against either party.
HAMILTON
36
Between:
LETTER OF AGREEMENT #1
UNI FOR - Canada, Local 973 •and -
Coca-Cola Refreshments Canada Company, Hamilton
Re: Retirement Incentive Program (“Incentive Program”)
The Company shall make available a maximum of seven (7) early retirement packages
(“Packages") to members of the Union (“UNIFOR Members”) who satisfy the eligibility criteria
set out below, on the terms and conditions as set out below:
1.	Each eligible UNIFOR Member will be given information about the early retirement package and if an eligible UNIFOR Member wishes to retire and receive applicable benefits under the early retirement package, the UNIFOR Member must, by September 30, 2014, or such earlier date, agreed upon by the Parties (“Election Date”) provide notice to irrevocably elect to retire under the Employees’ Retirement Plan of Coca-Cola Refreshments Canada Company (“ERP") no later than December 31, 2014. Subject to the election to retire being accepted by the Company and subject to the provisions set out below, the early retirement date for any UNIFOR Member who elects to retire in accordance with this letter agreement shall be a date to be agreed upon between the particular UNIFOR Member and the Company, provided that such date shall be, on or before December 31, 2014 or such earlier period as mutually agreed upon (the "Early Retirement Date”).
2.	A UNIFOR Member who is at September 7, 2013,- 60 years of age and whose age plus years of Company service equal at least 80, and who elects to retire in accordance with section 1, will receive a Category 1 Payment within 30 days after his or her Early Retirement Date.
3.	Subject to the provisions as set out below, a UNIFOR Member who would at any lime on or before September 8, 2016, attain the age of 60 years and whose age plus years of Company service equals at least 80, on or before September 8, 2016 and who elects to retire in accordance with section 1, will receive a Category 2 Payment within 30 days after his or her Early Retirement Date.
4.	Since the number of UNIFOR Members who satisfy the eligibility criteria described above is greater than the number of Packages available, the election for such Package will be accepted by the Company in the following order:
(0 with respect to the Category 1 Members who qualify under section 2 and who elect to retire in accordance with section 1 if such Packages remain available, their election to retire will be accepted by the Company in order based on the Category 1 Members whose age is the highest being accepted first, until the total number of retirements under this paragraph (i) equal seven (7). (ii)
(ii) Subject to 4 0) with respect to the Category 2 Members who qualify under section 3 and who elect to retire in accordance with section 1 if such Packages remain available, their election to retire will be accepted by the Company in order, based on the Category 2 Members whose age is the highest being accepted first until the total number of retirements under this paragraph (ii) and under paragraph (i) equals seven (7).
HAMILTON
37
It is understood and agreed that the employees set out herein shall qualify for the Company's prevailing Post Retiree benefits which is currently Health Plus,
5.	A UNIFOR Member who is in receipt of short term disability benefits, long term disability benefits or workers' compensation benefits shall be eligible to elect to retire and receive the applicable Category 1 Payment or Category 2 Payment, provided he or she satisfies the applicable eligibility criteria ("Benefit Employee"). If such a UNIFOR Member does so elect and the election is accepted by the Company in accordance with the procedures described above then the Early Retirement Date for such person will be the date such person ceases to be eligible for short term disability benefits, long term disability benefits or workers’ compensation benefits and the applicable Category 1 Payment or Category 2 Payment as applicable.
Definitions
"Category 1 Payment" means $19,000 gross (inclusive of all statutory requirements but subject to all required deductions and withholdings) and shall only apply to this program and no other term in the Collective Agreement.
"Category 2 Payment" means $19,000 gross (inclusive of all statutory requirements but subject to all required deductions and withholdings) and shall only apply to this program and no other term in the Collective Agreement.
UNIFOR Members, who receive either a Category 1 Payment or a Category 2 Payment, shall, subject to compliance with applicable laws, be eligible to use such payment as a retiring allowance.
FOR THE UNION
(signed|
Norman Chow (signed}
Dave-Leonard —
(signed)
James Dezeeaw-
FOR MANAGEMENT
(signed]	[signed|	(signed]
DarrGoutet	Darryl Serafini	Chris Christidis
[signed)
■Mike Reuter
[signed]
-Ban Dinurzio ■
HAMILTON
38
Between:
LETTER OF AGREEMENT #2
UNIFOR - Canada, Local 973 -and _
Coca-Cola Refreshments Canada Company, Hamilton Re: Employees' Retirement Plan
It is agreed that the Employees' Retirement Plan (the "ERP"), as it may be amended from time-to-time. will continue in force for employees of the Company who are covered by the Collective Bargaining Agreement, so long as it shall remain in force, unless in the meantime, the parties hereto should mutually agree, in writing, to enter into some alternative arrangements for the provision of pension benefits to some or all of the employees covered by this Agreement.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the parties have agreed to participate in the non-contributory, flat benefit pension arrangement for the UNIFOR. (UNIFOR-ERP) bargaining unit at Hamilton in accordance with the terms of the ERP which will also include those employees who are hired on or after October 29,2007.
1.	Thg Gag Period
During the period from April 8, 2007 to and including October 28, 2007, employees who were employed with the Company during this period shall receive a frozen pension benefit equal to a basic benefit rate of $41.16 per month and a supplementary benefit rate equal to $22.22 per month, prorated if applicable, for each month or part thereof of UNIFOR. credited service
2.	Basic Benefit
The non-contributory pension benefit will apply to all employees on attainment of two years seniority. The UNIFOR-ERP non-contributory basic benefit shall be, as follows:
i)	For employees who retire on or after October 1, 2010 the basic benefit is $51.75 per month for each year of UNIFOR. credited service after October 29,2007.
ii)	For employees who retire on or after October 1, 2015 the basic benefit is increased to $55.50 per month for each year of UNIFOR credited service after October 29, 2007.
The amount retirement income under the current Coca-Cola Refreshments Canada Company Employee’s Retirement Plan will be improved by $3.75 effective October 1, 2015. Notwithstanding this October 1, 2015 improvement date, any seniority member who retirees on or after September 7, 2013 will receive the $3.75 improvement in their lifetime basic pension benefit on their retirement date.
The benefit referred to above shall be in the form of a life annuity, with a guarantee of payments for a minimum of 10 years. However, if an employee is married at the time retirement income commences, then a benefit in the same amount shall be payable in the form of a 60% Joint and Survivor income, unless the member and his/her/her spouse opt for other arrangements in accordance with the provisions of the Ontario Pension Benefits Act. The requirement for a common law spouse shall be one (1) year. 3
3.	Supplemental fiengfii
HAMILTON
39
In the case of retirement at or after age 60, a monthly supplementary benefit is available and shall be payable from the retirement date until attainment of age 65. Increases to this supplementary benefit shall be, as follows:
(i) For employees who retire at or after age 60, but before age 65 on or after October 1, 2010, the supplementary benefit is $27.50 per month, for each year of UNIFOR credited service after October 29,2007.
The Basic benefit and the Supplemental benefit referred to above will be unreduced if commenced on or after age 62. There shall be a 3% per annum reduction for each year of retirement prior to age 62.
4. ERP^Contribj^^
UNIFOR Members who have ERP Contributory credited service shall be entitled to an immediate 8.9% increase to their current frozen ERP Contributory annual pension benefits (the “Increased Frozen ERP Contributory Benefit”) which Increased Frozen ERP Contributory Benefit will be payable upon retirement from the Company, termination or death.
FOR THE UNION	FOR MANAGEMENT
[signed]
Norman'CTOW [signed]
Dave Leonard [signedl
James Dezeeuw
[signed]
Dari Gbulct (signedl
[signed]
Oarr Dinun zio
[signed]
Darryl Serafim"
[signed]
Chris Christidis
Benefij; Increase
HAMILTON
40
Between;
LETTER OF AGREEMENT #3
UNIFOR - Canada, Local 973
• and -
Coca-Cola Refreshments Canada Company, Hamilton
Re: Buy Back If Employees:
(a)	have an accrued vested pension from CCWIPP (the "Accrued Vested Pension")
(b)	are entitled to transfer their commuted value as calculated based on the frozen benefit rates (the "Frozen Benefit Rates”), the sample withdrawal rates, the sample retirement dates and assumptions attached to this Letter agreement (the "Commuted Value”) to the Company's ERP-UNIFOR plan (the "Plan'’) in exchange for years of credited service under the Plan as calculated under the aforesaid Frozen Benefit Rates and assumptions (the "Buy Back ERP Credited Service”); and
(c)	are under 50 years of age
Then subject to the extent permitted by the applicable legislation, and as agreed upon by the actuaries of the respective parties, the Company agrees that as long as 1he Company receives from the applicable employees authorized direction that he/she agrees to Buy Back ERP Service and the Company receives the Commuted Value then the Company shall credit the employee with the frozen Buy Back ERP credited Service.
It is agreed that such employees shall only be entitled to such frozen monthly pension benefits based on the Frozen Benefit rate (the "Frozen Monthly Pension Benefit rate") upon retirement from the Company, death or termination.
FOR THE UNION [signed]
Norman Chow [signed]
Dave Leonard-------
[signed]
James Dezeeuw
[signed]
Dan Goulet [signedl Mice Reuter [signed]
Dan Dinunzio
FOR MANAGEMENT [signed]	[signedl
Darryl Serafini	Chris Christidis
HAMILTON
41
Between:
LETTER OF AGREEMENT #4
UNI FOR - Canada, Local 973 -and -
Coca-Cola Refreshments Canada Company, Hamilton
Re: Individual Preferences
The purpose of this letter is to confirm the Company's intentions with respect to its endeavours to accommodate the individual preferences of employees in regard to their regularly assigned duties.
"INSIDE EMPLOYEES"
1.	(a) Effective on and after the date of execution of this Agreement all job postings
under the provisions of clause 8.06(a) of the Collective Agreement to fill the position of Warehouseman will identify the shift, department, and "function" within the Job Classification in which the vacancy exists. For this purpose (and this purpose only), the following "functions" will be recogni2ed:
W.B. No. 1 - Job Classification:	Warehouseman
Functions:
(a)	Principally Forklift Operator
(b)	Principally Load Consolidation/Sorting
(c)	Principally Shunting
(d)	General Duties
(b) In the event that more forklift operators are required than those posted, those additional positions wil be filled on a seniority basis.
2.	It is expressly agreed that the function descriptions set out above are intended solely to identify the general or predominant nature of the tasks assigned to any employee and shall not in any way limit the Company's ability to assign other duties or tasks within the Job Classification
"OUTSIDE EMPLOYEES"
3.	All drivers (including Red Fleet and FSV) will start by seniority.
4.	Employees win be given the opportunity to pick a route by seniority at the start of their shift, except if the employee is late, in which case he/she will pick from the remaining routes. The Company agrees to assign the employee the requested route. 5 6
5.	If the employee is absent the work will be offered by seniority if there is a change in assigned mode. There will be no bumping within a mode, unless there is a change in territory. Sideload vacancies will be filled with unscheduled drivers.
6.	Territory will be defined as consisting of three defined territories:
(a) Niagara - East of Stoney Creek (below the escarpment) and East of Highway 20 / Highway 56 (above the escarpment).
HAMILTON
42
(b)	Greater Hamilton - West of Stoney Creek (below the escarpment) and North of Highway 52 (above the escarpment).
(c)	Brant / Haldimand - South of Highway 52 and West of Highway 201 Highway 56.
7.	The Company reserves the right to withhold any routes that may have been selected but are not ready for delivery at the scheduled start time, unless the selected route will be available within a reasonable amount of time. If not, the employee may pick the next available route according to his/her seniority.
8.	Current FSV drivers will have the opportunity to select a route on a yearly basis.
If there is a change in the customer base resulting in a "Vend Plan” (a redesign of routes), current FSV Drivers wilt be permitted to reselect their routes.
GENERAL
10.	Effective on execution of this Agreement, the Company agrees to identify the service districts into which Hamilton's service territory is divided (District 1, District 2, District 3, Other).
This identification will permit existing Sales Equipment Servicemen to identify by seniority the general or predominant nature of the work assignments in a particular service area.
Work assignments w'rit indude both service and installation work and will be posted on a yearly (twelve (12) month) basis.
It is understood and agreed that, employees may be assigned service or installation work which are of a location other than those associated with the general or predominant nature of the service area.
Some Cooler [Delivery may be required to pick a route by seniority the day of.
11.	Notwithstanding anything herein contained, it is mutually understood and agreed that incapable inability to meet satisfactory standards of performance may be grounds for a norvdisdpBnary change of assignment within the Job Classification of Warehouseman or Oelivery Driver.
This expression of intent to provide further recognition of individual preferences, on an experimental basis, shall not in any way diminish existing management rights and prerogatives with respect to conduct of the business or deployment of the workforce.
FOR THE UNION	FOR MANAGEMENT
|slpied]	[signed]	[signed]	[signed]
NomTan Chow-------------- Dan Goulet	Parryreerartni-------cnris chnstrcts
[signed]	[signed]
Dave Lemlaiii............ Mtku Reuter-------------
Isigned)	[signed]
James Dezeeuw	Oan Dinunzto
HAMILTON
43
Between:
LETTER OF AGREEMENT #5
UNIFOR - Canada, Local 973
-and •
Coca-Cola Refreshments Canada Company, Hamilton
Re: Salas Equipment Service Technicians and Trainee
Notwithstanding any of the provisions of this Agreement which may be to the contrary, it is mutually understood and agreed that the following arrangements and conditions shall apply to the positions of Sales Equipment Serviceperson ("Service Technician") and Sales Equipment Service Trainee ("Trainee").
1.	Candidates for a posted job vacancy as a Trainee or Service Technician shall:
a)	successfully complete an appropriate aptitude tests prior to appointment; and
b)	be prepared to undertake and successfully complete a prescribed course of company sponsored training; and
c)	hold a valid, appropriate driver's license.
2.	Should an employee fail to successfully complete the appropriate aptitude tests than he/she will be restricted from re-writing such test for a period of six (6) months.
3.	The successful candidate for a posted vacancy in the position of Service Trainee or Service Technician will be appointed to that position on the condition that the employee undertakes such training as the Company may require.
4.	Failure to maintain a satisfactory degree of progress or failure to successfully complete the training program shall lead to the demotion of a Sales Equipment Service Trainee. In such event the employee shall revert to his/her former position and h doing so may displace the employee who succeeded him/her in that position.
5.	A Sales Equipment Service Trainee may, within three (3) months of appointment to such position, erect to revert to his/her previous job and, in so doing, may dispraoe the employee who succeeded him/her in such job. Additionally, the Sales Equipment Service Trainee may only be displaced from the Sales Equipment Service Trainee position, pursuant to the seniority provisions of this collective agreement, if the person exercising his/her seniority is immediately qualified to perform the work of a Service Technician. 6 7
6.	The training program referred to herein currently consists of various training sessions organized by the Company and/or equipment suppliers and on-the-job training, and must complete a minimum of 2000 hours of training. Trainees win be elevated to the Service Technician position, once they have successfully completed the training program and the technician written test. Once redassified, he/she shall be paid the Service Technidan rate. He/she must remain in the position of Service Technidan fora minimum period of one (1) year after being redassified unless the Company agrees otherwise.
7.	In the event that the Company has no employee who can;
a) meet the requirements for a vacancy as Sales Equipment Service Trainee;
HAMILTON
44
or
b)	meet the requirements for a vacancy as a Sales Equipment Serviceperson;
The Company may hire a new employee who does possess the necessary qualifications to satisfactorily fulfill the requirements of the vacant position.
8.	When a change in the complement of Sales Equipment Servicemen will result in an opportunity for a change of shift assignment, the existing Sales Equipment Servicemen may exercise their preference in shift assignment, on a seniority basis.
9.	A Sales Equipment Serviceman or Service Trainee who is required by the Company to be on "stand-by14 when off duty shall, for each day he has such responsibility, be guaranteed to receive pay in an amount which is at least the equal of 4 hours pay at his regular hourly rate.
However, If such an employee is actually called out to work on a day when he is on "stand-by", then the provisions of clause 9.10 hereof shall apply and the provisions of this point #9 shall no longer apply to that day.
FOR THE UNION [signed]
Norman Chow
[signed]
Dave Leonard Isigned]
James Dezeeuw
FOR MANAGEMENT
[signed]	[signed]	[signed|
Dan GOUtet------------- Darryl Serafini	Chris Christidis
[signed]
Mike Reiner"
[signed]
Dan Dinunzio
HAMILTON
45
Between:
LETTER OF AGREEMENT #6
UNIFOR * Canada, LOcal 973
-and •
Coca-Cola Refreshments Canada Company, Hamilton
Re: Long-Term Disability Plan
It is mutually agreed by the parties hereto that the Company's current package of disability benefits shall be modified and that a co-ordinated Long Term Disability Plan shall be introduced, all as set out herein:
1.	The Weekly Income Benefit coverage maximum benefit period is 26 weeks. The Company
wll pay 100% of the W.S.I.B. premiums.
2.	The Long Term Disability Insurance program for regular full-time employees includes (he
following features:
(a)	The benefit is based on 66-2/3% of regular straight-time earnings in effect at the time disability commences, up to a maximum monthly benefit of $2,450.00.
(b)	Benefits are payable monthly, after a qualifying W.S.I.B. period of 26 weeks of continuous absence due to "disability", and wfl continue as long as "total disability" lasts, up to age 65, or unti the employee elects retirement, whichever comes first
(c)	"Disability" means an incapacity which prevents the employee from performing his/her regular duties during the qualifying W.I.B. period of 26 weeks and the following L.T.D. benefit period of 104 weeks. If stll disabled after a combined benefit period of 130 weeks, disability is then considered total if it prevents the employee from performing any work for which he/she is reasonably qualified by education, training or experience.
(d)	Benefits payable under the L.T.O. plan are reduced by the amount of disability income benefit, if any. payable by the Canada/Quebec Pension Plan {primary benefit only) or by WSIB. The policy shall include such imitations and restrictions as are usually found in LT.D. policies.
(e)	Participation in the LT.D. plan will be mandatory for all eligible employees on completion of the probationary period. Coverage is effective on the date the employee becomes eligible, provided he/she is at work on such date. If the employee is absent from wort on the date of eligibility, L.T.D. coverage will not become effective until he/she returns to active employment
(f)	Pre-existing conditions are not oovered unless the employee, after becoming insured, has been actively working for three (3) consecutive months with no absence related to the pre-existing oondition.
(g)	The Company pays 100% of the LT.D. premium.
HAMILTON
46
3.
During the 130 week benefit period referred to in point 2(c) above, the Company will continue in force the Lite, Supplemental Medical and Dental Care Benefits referred to in Articfe 21.01 of the Collective Agreement.
FOR THE UNION		FOR MANAGEMENT
[signed]	(signed]	(signed]
Norman Chow	Dan Goulet	Danyt Serafini
(signed]	(signed]	
Pavgteunard		Mike Reuter	
(signed]	[signed]	
James Dezeeuw	Dan Dinunzio	
[signed}
Chris Christidis
HAMILTON
47
LETTER OF AGREEMENT #7
Between:
“FOR REFERENCE PURPOSES ONLY”
(from the Collective Agreement expiring December 31, 2007)
UNIFOR - Canada, Local 973
• and •
Coca-Cola Refreshments Canada Company, Hamlton
Re: CCWIPP Pension Plan and Colective Agreement
(expiration date of December 31, 2007) - Between CCBC and UFCW 175
All members of the bargaining unit covered by this Agreement shall participate in the Canadian
Commercial Workers Industry Pension Plan (the “CCWIPP"), rather than in the Employees'
Retirement Plan of TCC Beverages LTD. (“E.R.P."). More particularly, the following specific
arrangements have been agreed to:
1.	Members of the subject bargaining unit shall not be eligible to participate in the E.R.P. with respect to service after December 31,1988.
2.	It is recognized that the provisions of the Pension Benefits Act, 1987 (Ontario) restrict the ability of the E.R.P. members to withdraw prior contributions to the E.R.P. so long as they continue to be employed by the Company.
3.	Members of the E.R.P. shall, subject to the Plan provisions, retain their right to benefits accrued for service up to December 31,1988. Such accrued benefit shall not be subject to increase by reason of future service or increases in earnings after December 31, 1988. However, service rendered with the Company after December 31,1988 will be counted towards eligibility for vesting and early retirement under E.R.P., based on benefits accrued at December 31,1988.
4.	On retirement, death or termination of service after December 31, 1988, benefits payable lo former E.R.P. members will be determined in accordance with applicable provisions of that Plan.
Current Service Pension Contributions
5.	Effective July 1, 2001, and for the life of the renewed Collective Agreement (expiration date of December 31, 2007), the Company shall contribute $1.08 per hour for all hours paid by the Company to seniority holding members of the bargaining unit (hours paid shall include hours worked, vacation, observed holidays, sick days, jury duty, bereavement leave, paid time off for negotiations, etc), to the CCWIPP for $60.00 pension unit as set out in the CCWIPP guide.
6.	It is understood and agreed that the contributions listed in paragraph #5 hereof shall not apply to probationary or temporary employees (as defined in the Collective Agreement), so long as they are so classified. However, when a regular, full-time employee completes his probationary period and achieves seniority standing, the Company will retroactively calculate the contributions (as set out in paragraph #5 hereof) with respect to such employee for a period from his last date of continuous employment to the
HAMILTON
48
completion of his probationary period and shall then remit such contributions in accordance with paragraph #7 hereof.
7.	Contributions, along with a list of employees for whom they have been made, the amount of the weekly contributions for each employee, and the number of hours worked or paid accordingly to the above paragraph #5, shall be remitted to the trustees of the CCWIPP (the Trustees") by the Company within the fifteen (15) days after the dose of the Company’s four (4) or five (5) week accounting period. The Company agrees to pay interest at the reasonable rate established by the Trustees on all contributions not remitted as stipulated above, not in excess of the rate established for all other employers participating in the CCWIPP.
8.	The Trustees may allocate the employer and employee contributions at the direction of the Union provided that in the event that the Union or the Trustees receive notice from the Revenue Canada Taxation or its provincial counterpart or any successor thereto, that any Company contributions allocated at the direction of the Union or any part thereof are not deductible by the Company for the purposes of Income Tax Act (Canada) or its provindal equivalents or threatening to challenge such deductibility, it is agreed that such notice will be immediately delivered to the Company. In the event of receipt of such a notice by the Company either delivered by the Union or the Trustees or direct receipt itself, the Company shall be entitled to direct the Trustees as to the allocation of the contributions made by it.
The Union hereby agrees to indemnify and save the Company harmless from any additional taxes or penalties (including any interest charges) which the Company may suffer or incur as a result of the allocation of contributions by the Trustees at the direction of the Union such that the tax deductions claimed by the Company in the ordinary course of its business for contributions to the CCWIPP as a registered plan is denied by the applicable taxing authorities. Such indemnity will not be applicable if the denial of the deduction results from the Company seeking a ruling from the Revenue Canada Taxation as to the allocations.
It is agreed that the responsibilities of the Company under this Agreement are discharged by making such remittances within the period stipulated above. It is further acknowledged and agreed that the Company is not responsible for the administration of the CCWIPP or the payment of any benefits under the CCWIPP, or for any funding deficiencies resulting from the withdrawal of the Company from the CCWIPP (except if due to a closure where the Company remains responsible for contributions during the term of the current collective agreement) or termination and wind-up of the CCWIPP.
The contributions shall be for the purposes of providing such pension benefits for eligible employees as shall be determined from time to time by the Trustees of the CCWIPP pursuant to the terms of the CCWIPP.
Previous Service Adjustment (Current Service Adjustment)
Refer to Letter of Agreement attached Re: Previous Service Increase 2004 - 2007
Past Service Pension
9.	Effective July 1, 2001, the sum of 23 cents per hour was paid by the employee of the bargaining unit to CCWIPP which funded the past service liability as herein provided.
HAMILTON
49
Such employee deductions ceased effective December 31, 2003. The Company paid CCWIPP a monthly lump sum payment in the amount of $7,255.00 commencing March 1,2001 and ceasing with the last payment made on December 1,2003.
It is agreed that the CCWIPP shad provide a Past Service pension to eligible members of $10.50 per month for each year of Past Service (as defined by the CCWIPP to mean the period of employment of a member with the Company prior to the date the Company joined the CCWIPP), to a maximum of twenty (20) years. It is further recognized and agreed by the Union, that the cost of this Past Service pension has been fuly funded and that no further Company or employee contributions or deductions will be required with respect to the Past Service pension provided by the CCWIPP.
10.	Given the mutual agreement of the parties, the Company agrees to sign a ''Participation Agreement” and supply any other documents, forms, reports or information reasonably required by the Trustees to recognize its participation in the CCWIPP in accordance with the terms hereof and to permit the calculation of payment of benefits to persons who are subject to this Agreement.
11.	The arrangements set out herein shall remain in effect during the life of the above-mentioned Collective Bargaining Agreement and any subsequent Collective Bargaining Agreement which contains the same provisions.
12.	This agreement supersedes any prior agreement of the parlies pertaining to the matters herein.
Employees electing retirement under the CCWIPP will be required to notify the Company in
writing at least ninety (90) days prior to electing retirement.
FOR THE UNION		FOR MANAGEMENT	
[signed]	[signed]	(signed]	[signed]
Norman Chow	Dan Goulet	Darryl Serafinl	Chris Christklls
[signed]	[signed]		
Dave Leonard	Mike Reuter		
[signed]	[signed]		
James Dezeeuw	Dan Dinunzio		
HAMILTON
50
LETTER OF AGREEMENT 08
“FOR REFERENCE PURPOSES ONLY”
(from the Collective Agreement expiring December 31,2007}
Between:
UNIFOR - Canada, Local 973
•and -
Coca-Cola Refreshments Canada Company, Hamilton
Re: Previous Service Increase
(also referred to as Current Service Adjustment) for the period from 1989 - 2000
1.	Effective Immediately, the Company has accepted the Union’s proposal to adjust the
Previous Service Adjustment (also referred to as Current Service Adjustment) previously credited to active employees to increase the amount of Previous Service Adjustment pension credited to such individual.
The Previous Service Adjustment pension previously credited to active employees shall increase to $45.00 (as per memorandum dated June 4, 2004 from Colleen Ormond) for the years:
1989-1991 (previously $27.00)
1992	(previously $30.00)
The Previous Service Adjustment pension previously credited to active employees shall increase to $40.00 (as per memorandum dated April 12, 2004 from Colleen Ormond) for the years:
1993	- 1996 (previously $33.00)
1997 (previously $28.60)
1998-2000 (previously $32.70)
Accordingly, effective July 1,2004, the pension service adjustment shall be paid as follows:
(a)	The Company shall pay the total cost of increasing the Previous Service Adjustment pension as determined by the Actuarial estimates of the parties as set out below. Accordingly, the Company shall pay such amounts monthly, yearly, or in a lump sum, beginning July 1, 2004 and no later than December 31, 2007 to the Trustees of the CCWIPP; and
(b)	All employees on the payroll of the Company as of July 1, 2004 agree to forego their agreed upon wage increases, beginning in year one of the contract, until such time as the amount stipulated in item 1 (one) above is completely satisfied and the company is notified by the Trustees or the Administrator of the C.C.W.I.P.P. (Pension Plan). It is agreed that the Company's obligation is only to make contributions, and in the event of a closure during the term of this collective agreement, then the employer is obligated to ensure that such contributions continue. When the amount in item 1 (one) above has
HAMILTON
51
been completely satisfied, unless the Company pays the amount in a lump sum, or by the latest date of December 31. 2007, the Company agrees to implement the agreed upon wage increase as specified in the Collective Bargaining Agreement on the pay rate by the latest date of December 31, 2007.
If the Company pays the amount in a lump sum, the total amount will be recovered by foregoing the agreed upon wage increases until such amount is recovered by the Company. In any event, the latest date for the implementation of the increase to the employees pay rate will be January 31, 2007.
FOR THE UNION		FOR MANAGEMENT	
(signed]	[signed]	|signed|	(signed]
Norman Chow	OarrGoulef' - • ~	Danyl Serafim	Chris Christidis
[signed|	[signed]		
Dave Leonard	Mike Reuter		
[signed]	[signed]		
James Dezeeuw	Dan Dinunzio		
HAMILTON
52
Between:
LETTER OF AGREEMENT #9
UNIFOR - Canada, Local 973
- and •
Coca-Cola Refreshments Canada Company, Hamilton
Re: Christmas/New Year's Schedule
It is mutually agreed that the following arrangements will apply with respect to the Christmas/New Year's holidays during the term of this agreement for regular full-time employees scheduled Monday to Friday:
Day After New Years Day Christmas Eve Day Christmas Day j Boxing Day ] New Years Eve Day
Thurs Dec 25
| Thurs Dec 26 | FriDec26 Toes Dec 31 j Wed Dec 31
Fri Dec 25 Mon Dec 28 Thurs Dec 31
FOR THE UNION		FOR MANAGEMENT	
[signed]	[signed]	[signed]	(signed]
Norman Chow		Dan Goulet	Darryl Serafini	Chris Christidis
[signed]	[signed]		
Dave Leonard	Mike Reuter		
[signed]	[signed]		
JamdsLfcZe&jw		Dan Dinunzio		
HAMILTON
S3
Between:
LETTER OF AGREEMENT #10
UNIFOR - Canada, Local 973 -and -
Coca-Cola Refreshments Canada Company, Hamilton
Re: Substance Abuse
Substance Abuse is recognized to be a serious medical and social problem that can affect employees. The Company and the Union have a strong interest in encouraging early treatment and assisting employees towards full rehabilitation.
Accordingly, following execution of the Collective Agreement, a representative of the Company and a representative of the Union will be appointed by the respective parties to establish and administer a Substance Abuse Program. Such program will basically consist of methods to communicate to employees the availability of confidential referral services, including the Company sponsored Employee Assistance Program, as well as referrals to appropriate counseling services or treatment and rehabilitation facilities. In addition, from time to time, the Union member may have to act as Union Coordinator with troubled employees, and time off for such duties shall not be unreasonably denied by the Company, provided that such time off is requested from the Union Coordinator immediate supervisor, as per the current practice.
The Company will provide normal group insurance benefits subject to group insurance policy provisions to employees who are undergoing a medically prescribed course of treatments. Union Substance Abuse Counsellor will be provided such time off as is reasonably required for the administration of the program.
The preferred treatment and rehabilitation facilities are the Homewood and Renaissance Centre.
The Company and Union will meet to facilitate employees into vacant positions where substance abuse has affected their everyday duties.
The operation of this program will be subject to review after its first year of operation, or earlier at the request of either party.
FOR THE UNION	FOR MANAGEMENT
(signed)	[signed)	[signed]	[signed]
Norman Chow	Dan Goulet	Danryl	Serafini	Chris Christidis
[signed]	(signed]
•QaiveLeonard	MikeReuter
[signed]	[signed]
James Dezeeuw	Dan.Oinunzio
HAMILTON
54
Between:
LETTER OF AGREEMENT #11
UNIFOR - Canada, Local 973 -and -
Coca-Cola Refreshments Canada Company, Hamilton
Re: FSV Incentive Program
The Union acknowledges that the Company may provide a quarterly incentive program for all regularly assigned Full Service Vending Route Drivers based on a targeted number of cases sold (per hour) being achieved (based on 24 units per case). The incentive amount shall be determined by the Company and communicated to the Ful Service Vending Route Drivers on an annual basis.
FOR THE UNION [sHpied]
Norman Criow [sfcwrfl Dave Leonard [signed]
James U£zeeuw
FOR MANAGEMENT
[signed)	(signed]	(signed|
Dan Goulet	Darryl Serafini	Chris Christidrs
[signed]
Mike Reuter [signed]
Dan Dinunzio
HAMILTON
55
Between:
LETTER OF AGREEMENT #12
UNIFOR - Canada, Local 973 -and -
Coca-Cola Refreshments Canada Company, Hamilton
Re: Customer Interviews
Where the Company conducts an interview with a customer concerning an altercation between an employee and that customer, tie Company will allow a Union Steward to attend such interview, t is understood that tie Steward is there only as a witness.
FOR THE UNION		FOR MANAGEMENT	
(signed]	[signed]	(signed]	[signed]
Norman Chow	Dan Goulet	Darryl Serafini	Chris Christidis
(signed]	[signed]		
Dave Leonard	Mike Reuter		
(signed]	[signed]		
James Dezeeuw	Dan Dinunao		
HAMILTON
56
Between:
LETTER OF AGREEMENT #13
UNIFOR - Canada, Local 973
- and -
Coca-Cola Refreshments Canada Company, Hamilton
Re: Cleaning of Front Offices
As a result of enhanced electronic security arrangements in the Company's "front offices," the Parties agree that the current cleaning of these offices, which is bargaining unit work, shall be assigned to an outside contractor who wi assume any liabilities during the period of time such offices are cleaned and the electronic security has been deactivated. Current employees who are doing such cleaning shall not be laid off as a result of this change.
FOR THE UNION		FOR MANAGEMENT
[signed]	[signed!	[signed] [signed]
Norman Chow	Dan Goulet	Danyi Serafini Chris Christidis
(signed]	[signed]
TOTCeSnSra		TBSSTleuter
[signed]	[signed]
James Dezeeuw	Dan Dinunzio
HAMILTON
57
Between:
LETTER OF AGREEMENT #14
UNIFOR - Canada, Local 973 - and -	.
Coca-Cola Refreshments Canada Company, Hamilton
Re: First Fills
It is understood and agreed that employees in the sales equipment service department will carry enough inventory and cash to do initial set-ups for vending and fountain, when such equipment is delivered and installed by them. They will carry one (1) C02 cylinder for emergency use and one (1) C02 cylinder for each fountain set-up. When performing a close-out on equipment, they shall also remove any product or cash still in that equipment.
When Cooler Deliverymen are required to (ill or empty vending equipment or fountain equipment and handle cash and/or product associated with that equipment, they shall receive the rate of pay of the Delivery Driver classification.
FOR THE UNION		FOR MANAGEMENT	
[signed]	[signed]	[signed]	[signed]
Norman Chow	Dan Goulet	Danyl Serafini	Chris ChristkJis
[signed]	[signed]		
Dave Leonard	Mike Reuter		
[signed]	[signed]		
James Dezeeuw	Dan Dinunzio		
HAMILTON
58
Between:
LETTER OF AGREEMENT #15
UNIFOR - Canada, Local 973 -and -
Coca-Cola Refreshments Canada Company, Hamilton
Re: UNIFOR LOCAL 973 McMaster Children's Hospital Fund
(n addition, the Company wfll contribute one (1) cent per hour per employee for all hours worked to the UNFORLOCAL 973 McMaster Children's Hospital Fund.
The Company agrees to remit these monies with the Union dues, including a separate accounting for such contribution.
FOR MANAGEMENT
{signed]	[signed!_________________
Darryl Serafim	Chris Christidis	“
{signed]	(signed]
James Dezeeuw	Dan Dinunzio
FOR THE UNION (signed]	[signed!
NofmdnChow	Dan Goulet
(signed]	[signed]
nierriSwa......-.... Mike Reuter
HAMILTON
59
Between:
LETTER OF AGREEMENT #16
UNIFOR - Canada, Local 973
-and -
Coca-Cola Refreshments Canada Company, Hamilton
Re: Meeting with New Hires
When the Company hires a new temporary hourly employee, the Plant Chairperson or Alternate shall have tie opportunity to meet, during regular working hours, with such hires for not more than fifteen (15) minutes witiin the first week of commencing work. Prior to the temporary employee's initial start date, the Company will notify the Union of the start date and arrange a
meeting time.” FOR THE UNION		FOR MANAGEMENT
(signed]	[signad|	[signed] [signed!
■Normarr Chow 			Dan Goulet	Danyl Serafini ~~ ChrtSChttstklis
(Siyied)	[signed]	
Dave Leonard	Mike Reuter	
[signed]	| sigred]	
James Oezeeuw	Dan Dinunzio	
HAMILTON
60
Between:
LETTER OF AGREEMENT #17
UNIFOR - Canada, Local 973 -and •
Coca-Cola Refreshments Canada Company, Hamilton
Re: "Pullback” Definition
If the Company needs a specified number of temporary employees, the equivalent number of regular ful-time employees will be alowed to pull back. If additional employees above those electing to pull back are required, the ‘Priority for Staffing* shall be followed. For example; should there be a need for three (3) temporary employees, the Company will allow three (3) fulltime employees to pullback. If the Company needs eight (8) employees to work, the Company will use Priority for Staffing as outlined in the Collective Agreement by assigning 3 pullback at regular rate, 3 temporary employees at regular rate and 2 fulltime employees at the applicable overtime rate.
FOR THE UNION [signed]
Norman Chow [signed]
Dave Leonard (signed]
James Dezeeuw
[signed]
Dan Goulet Isigned]
Mike Reuter [signed]
Dan Dinunzio
FOR MANAGEMENT [signed]	[signed]
D&fryrSerafini- Chris Christidis
HAMN.TON
61
Between:
LETTER OF AGREEMENT #18
UNIFOR - Canada, Local 973
-and -
Coca-Cola Refreshments Canada Company, Hamilton
Re: Workplace Accommodations
The following is intended to fulfill the parties' obligation to make reasonable accommodation for both permanently and temporarily impaired employees due to illness or injury.
This accommodation process shall consider many variables such as hours of work, duties assigned and shift assigned.
^mPlo^ees^withPerfflanentMedical Restrictions
The Company and the Union agree there is a need to maintain a dialogue between the Union, the Company and permanently impaired employees. In support of this objective, the Company and Union agree to maintain a Placement Committee to meet at least once per month and/or as necessary for the purpose discussing and reviewing opportunities fa permanently impaired employees to perform suitable and meaningful work. The Placement Committee will be comprised of the Plant Chairperson and the WSIB/Placement Representative. Such Union representatives will have no loss of pay for time spent meeting with the management representatives of the Placement Committee. In addition to the union representative the Placement Committee will be comprised of the Employee Relations Manager and a Supervisor.
In order to facilitate this process, the employee shall be required to sign an appropriate release and disclosure form directed to the "Placement Committee* and must submit all relevant medical information to the Company. All information released shall be considered confidential. The details of the accommodation shall be discussed with the employee.
Employees with permanent medical restrictions will have their situation reviewed by the Placement Committee for an opportunity to perform meaningful wak that meets their medical restrictions.
At the meeting, the Placement Committee will review the following information:
_ seniority;
relevant medical reports pertaining to the impairment;
•	permanent restrictions information from the WSIB/or specialist
a the physical demands of the employee’s current posted position and essential functions " of that position; and
•	the physical demands of other potential positions and their essential functions to determine whether they are within the scope of the employee’s capabilities.
FrPPM*
1.	I n the event that an employee is unable to perform the essential functions of his/her preinjury job even with accommodations, the Company and the Placement Committee shall investigate and pursue accommodations elsewhere in the employee's home department and, failing that, in other departments where suitable and meaningful work is available.
HAMILTON
62
All exceptions to the seniority provisions of the collective agreement must be mutually agreed to by the parties.
2.	Administration of the foregoing paragraph shall mean that the following procedure will be observed:
i)	An employee that can not be accommodated within his or her own pre-injury job and function can displace a junior employee within their shift and function in his/her department, provided such job meets the employee's medical restrictions and capabilities.
ii)	If the employee was unable to be accommodated in accordance with (r) above, then he/she may displace a junior employee within their shift and all departments, provided such job meets the employee's medical restrictions and capabilities.
iii)	If the employee was unable to be accommodated in accordance with (i) or (ii) above, then he/she may displace a junior employee within any shift and all departments, provided such job meets the employee's medical restrictions and capabilities.
iv)	In consideration of the aforementioned, if the employee was unable to be accommodated he/she may put forth an application to WSIB or Insurance Agent for benefits.
v)	Any displaced employee in (i), (ii) or (iii) will bump in accordance wilh Article 8.09.
3.	In the event of a dispute regarding the suitability of work for the employee as a result of Iheir restrictions, an Independent Medical Examination (IME) and/or Functional Abilities Evaluation (FAE) shall be acknowledged as the appropriate mechanism to resolve the dispute.
Understandings
In the event of a dispute regarding the suitablity of work for the employee as a result of his/her restrictions, an Independent Medical Examination (IME), Functional Abilities Evaluation (FAE). medical information submitted to the WSIB from a specialist at either the employee’s or the Company’s request, or a letter from the WSIB received by the Company or the employee, shall confirm what constitutes a permanent Impairment. This understanding shall not in any way be used to prejudice or otherwise influence the WSIB’s determination or payment of benefits.
Where a permanent Impairment with a WSIB claim is in dispute, the Company and the Union shall continue their efforts to accommodate the employee, pending a final decision from the WSIB (which may include additional information further clarifying the employee's permanent impairment).
For non-work related illness or injury, the Company will consider medical information provided by a specialist, an IME or an FAE. Where a dispute exists, the Company and Union shall continue their efforts to accommodate the employee, pending a final decision from the insurance provider on the payment of benefits.
Employees with Temporary Medical Restrictions
The Company and the Union acknowledge their obligations to provide temporary modified work opportunities for temporarily impaired employees. Modified work is defined as any job or combination of tasks that an employee may perform on a temporary basis without risk of reinjury. This work may consist of the regular tasks of the pre-injury job or specific tasks
HAMILTON
63
designated for employees participating in a modified work plan. The work must be productive and the results must have value to the Company. The folowing guidelines will be adhered to:
1.	The program will ensure that there is a consistent standard for all employees (occupational or non-occupational).
2.	The employee must submit all relevant medical information pertaining to the injury to the Company. It is understood that in order to facilitate this process, the employee shall be required to sign an appropriate release and disclosure form.
3.	The temporary modified work plan wll be individualized to meet the needs of both the temporarily impaired employee and the Company.
4.	Where required, the Company and the Union Placement Committee Representative win review all the temporary modified work plans that exceed fifteen (15) working days.
5.	This process will not be used to circumvent the process for employees with permanent medical restrictions as outlined above.
6.	Temporary modified work will not be extended indefinitely and a specific duration shal be determined in each case, if an accommodation concern arises that cannot be resolved by the Company and the Placement Committee Representative, the Company may require an IME and/or an FAE.
7.	The Company will provide a copy of the employee's IME and/or FAE to the employee and to the Union if the employee provides his/her written consent far
such disclosure.			
FOR THE UNION		FOR MANAGEMENT	
(sicpied]	[signed]	[signed]	[signed]
Norman Chow	□fen‘Goulet	Darryl Serafini	Chris Christidis
(signed)	(signed|		
Dave Leonard	Mike Reuter		
(signed]	(signed]		
James Dezeeuw	Dan Dinunzio		
HAMILTON
64
Between:
LETTER OF AGREEMENT *19
UNIFOR - Canada, Loeal 973 -and -
Coca-Cola Refreshments Canada Company, Hamilton
Re: Disability Dispute Resolution Process
The Company and the Union wish to see short and long term disability claims processed in a fair and expedient manner. The following provisions will be implemented upon dale of ratification of this agreement
(A)	£lgticg gf Suspension of Disability Benefits
The insurance carrier will provide an employee on disability with at least two (2) weeks written notice of intention to suspend benefits. The notice wl state the intended date of suspension, the reason for suspension, and, if appropriate, any actions the employee may take to maintain benefit continuation. The Union WSIB/Placement Committee Representative and the Company will receive a copy of the notice.
(B)	Dispute Resolution Process for the Disallowance, Sysggnsion gr Rgview of £laim for Benefits
Where there is a dispute between the employee's treating physician and the insurance carrier's medical advisors regarding the employee's ability to return to work or regarding the payment of benefits, or where the Company would like to have an employee's claim for benefits independently reviewed, the folowing procedure shall be applied:
1.	In the case of a dispute between physicians, the Company will first ensure that they have complete information regarding Ihe employee's job duties. The physicians will then discuss the case by phone to see if their differences of opinion can be reconciled. If further information is required the employee is responsible to ensure adequate medical is received and forms are duly completed.
2.	If the physicians stil disagree, or in the case of an independent review requested by the Company, a mutualy agreed upon independent physician wfl be selected to conduct a review of the matter. Preferably, this independent physician will be a board-certified specialist in the field of medicine where the dispute exists. The employee will be referred to the independent physician for examination and impartial recommendation, and the physician will be provided with full details regarding the employee’s status, clinical findings, treatments, etc., as well as complete information regarding the relevant requirements of the employee’s job duties. The impartial recommendation of the physician will be provided to the parties and wi be final and binding upon the Company, the Union, the employee and the insurance carrier.
3.	The employee will be given 48 hours advance notice of the scheduled independent examination. If the employee fails to attend the examination as scheduled without a valid reason, benefits will be suspended.
HAMILTON
65
(C) Condjjigns
During the process as described in Section (B) above, the following conditions shall apply:
1.	If an employee fails to show up for a scheduled examination, a reasonable effort will be made to determine why the employee failed to show up for such examination.
2.	In all cases, the employee will be required to sign an appropriate Release and Disclosure Form authorizing the release of medical information to all relevant parlies. All information so released will remain strictly confidential.
3.	The independent physician’s report (both verbal and written) will indude a statement of “able to work* or “not able to work". The written notification of results to the employee determined to be "able to work’ will include instructions to report to the Company to inform it of his or her status.
(D)	Terminatign gf Disability Benefijg
1.	In cases regarding a pending suspension of benefits, the employee shall continue to receive disability benefits during the process outlined in Section (B) above. The benefits shall continue from the date of the intended suspension until the date of final determination.
2.	If it is determined that the employee is capable of returning to work, disability benefits will cease on the day following the IME.
3.	Disability benefits shall continue if it is determined that the employee is unable to return to work.
(E)	Costs gf Independent Examination
1.	In all cases where the independent medical examination (IME) is requested by Ihe Company, the costs of the examination will be paid for by the Company.
2.	The Company will also pay the costs for the independent examination when requested by the employee in cases where the initial decision of the Insurance carrier was to deny the employee's entitlement to benefits.
3.	Notwithstanding point two (2) above, when the Company has reason to believe that an IME is being, or has been, unreasonably requested, it wi raise its concerns and/or objections with the union.
4.	The Company will provide a copy of the employee's IME and/or FAE to the employee and to the Union if the employee provides his/her written consent for such disclosure.
FOR THE UNION		FOR MANAGEMENT
[signed]	[signed]	(signed] [signed]
Norman Chow	Dan Goulet	Darryl Serafini Chris Chrislidis
(signed]	[signed]	
Dave Leonard	Mike Reuter		
[signed]	[signed]	
James-Dezeeuw —	Dan Dinunzio	
HAMILTON
66
Between:
LETTER OF AGREEMENT #20
UNIFOR - Canada, Local 973 -and -
Coca-Cola Refreshments Canada Company, Hamilton
Re: Union Elections
The Company agrees that the Union elections wili be held at a mutually agreeable location in the Hamilton facility.
The voting will occur outside of regular shift hours so as to not to disrupt the normal operations of the Company.
FOR THE UNION
(signed)
Norman Chow
Itiffwd]
Dave Leonard [signed]
Jdffflfes Dezeeuw
[signed]
Dan Goulet [signed]
Mike Reuter [signed]
Dan Dinunzfo
FOR MANAGEMENT
[signed]	[signed)
Darryl Serafini	CRrisThrisffdis
HAMILTON
67
Between:
LETTER OF AGREEMENT #21
UN1FOR - Canada, Local 973
• and •
Coca-Cola Refreshments Canada Company, Hamilton
Re: Training Matrix for Equipment Service Trainee
Before being classified as a Service Technician, an Equipment Service Trainee must successfuly complete a training matrix which comprises four (4) consecutive sections of study. These are: Coolers, Vendors, Fountains and Major Equipment. A trainee must achieve a minimum passing grade of 65% to proceed to the next level of training. It is mutually understood that:
(a)	The trainee may choose to write both the Coolers and Vendors sections at the same time;
(b)	If the Company, in its sole discretion, determines that a trainee may have acquired previous training and expertise in any one or more specific piece of equipment the Company may then be able to use that trainee to work on that equipment without the need for supervision. Despite this, the trainee must still complete the required training to be able to become a Service Technician.
(c)	A trainee may choose to fast track and write a test prior to the completion of the sectional training. If so, he will only be allowed additional training if he faied (with a mark of between 55% and 64%) and time limits wfl not be extended. The trainee must spend at least the route ride time with a technician prior to writing any tests.
The Company is prepared to meet with the Union to discuss any amendments to this matrix, but it is agreed that the Company reserves the right to exercise its sole discretion in the implementation of this or any amended training matrix.
The following constitutes the requirements for trainees in each section of study:
Qqpiqra,
Route rides with a Service Technician for four (4) weeks. h	Rides alone for	four (4) weeks working	only on Coolers service calls and calls into
+	supervisor if he	encounters any problems. A Supervisor and/or a qualified technician
may meet him at the call to assist.
« At the end of the eight (8) weeks, the trainee may write the Coolers test and, if successful, will receive an incremental wage increase and move onto the Vendors section of study.
Vgndors:
—Route rides with a Service Technician for four (4) weeks.
*	Rides alone for	eight (8) weeks woiking	on Coolers and Vendors calls and cals into
+	supervisor if he	encounters problems. A	Supervisor and/or a qualified technician may
meet him at the call to assist.
•	The trainee shall write the Vendors test at the end of the twelfth (12) week and if he chose not to write the Coolers test at the end of that section, must also write I at this point. If successful, the trainee will receive an incremental wage increase and move onto the Fountains section of study.
HAMILTON
68
Fountains:
•	KOute rides with a Service Technician for six (6) weeks.
•	Rides alone for eight (8) weeks working on Cooler, Vendor and Fountain calls and calls into supervisor if he encounters any problems. A Supervisor and/or a qualified technician may meet him at the call to assist.
•	The trainee shall write the Fountain test when he has completed the eight (8) weeks of riding alone. If successful, the trainee will receive an incremental wage increase and move onto the Major Equipment section of study.
Major Egui£m£Qt
' '• 1 Rdute rides with a Service Technician for six (6) weeks.
•	Rides alone for eight (8) weeks working on any service calls and calls into supervisor if he encounters any problems. A Supervisor and/or a qualified technician may meet him at the call to assist.
•	The trainee shall write the Major Equipment test when he has completed the eight (8) weeks of riding alone, if successful, the trainee will be reclassified as a Service Technician and receive wages in accordance with the provisions of the Collective Agreement.
Other agreed Jg items:
Subject to the above provisions:
•	The Company and Union agree that a one (1) week refresher route ride will be allowed for any trainee who does not pass a section but does receive a mark between 55% and 64%. A trainee receiving a mark below 55% in any section will be released from the training program.
•	The Company and the Union agree that there is no final exam for the trainee and that successful completion of the four sections is sufficient.
•	The Company and the Union agree that each trainee will spend a minimum of two (2) weeks with the installation crews.
•	The Company will agree to provide the trainees with access to the Company’s internet site to allow them to access the training material available (ooketech.ca).
•	The Company and the Union agree that when the two (2) or three (3) week training course is made available, the training schedule will be on hold for that time period and the trainee will return to the schedule at the completion of the course.
•	The Company and the Union agree that in the event of a layoff, any and all trainees will be laid off regardless of seniority prior to a Service Technician.
FOR THE UNION (signed]	(signed]	FOR MANAGEMENT [signed] Darryl Serafini	(signed] Chris Christidis
Nuiiudn Ctiuw (signed]	Dan Goulet (agned]		
(signed] James Dezeeuw	i*imw « [signed] Dan Dinimzio		
HAMILTON
69
Between:
LETTER OF AGREEMENT #22
UNIFOR - Canada, Local 973 • and -
Coca-Cola Refreshments Canada Company, Hamilton Re: Equipment Service Trainees
In the event that a current Service Technician gives notice of retirement during the Kfe of this Collective Agreement, and if the Company deems it necessary to backfill this position, the vacant position will be posted as “Equipment Service Trainee.”
FOR THE UNION	FOR MANAGEMENT
[signed]
Norman Chow [signed]
Dave Leonard [signed]
James Dezeeuw
[signed]	[signed]	(signed)
Dan Goulet	Darryl Serafini	Chris ChnsWis '
[Signed]
MikerReuter
[signed]	-
Dan Dinunzio
HAMILTON
70
Between:
LETTER OF AGREEMENT #23
UNIFOR - Canada, Local 973 • and -
Coca-Cola Refreshments Canada Company, Hamilton
Re: Minutes of Silence
During these negotiations, the union requested a minute of silence be observed in the Hamilton facility in memory of women who have died due to acts of violence. The moment of silence will be observed each year on December 6 at 11:00 a.m. or when the Company determines the observance will have the least impact on plant operations.
During the 2007 negotiations, the Union requested a minute of silence be observed in the Hamilton facility in memory of the thousands of workers who suffer injury, disease or death because of hazards at work. The moment of silence will be observed each year on April 28 at 11 a.m. - the National Day of Mourning in remembrance of assault on Canadian workers.
FOR THE UNION [signed]
NormarrCttow-----
(signed]
Ba*a Leonard-----
[signed]
JamcaOegecw........
FOR MANAGEMENT
[signed]	[signed]	[signed]
Dill QUUlUl........ Darryl1 flwafmt...... QhrrS'Qhrratidiy
(signed]
NUkU RCJULS [signed]
<0qnTaBfnwTeRy|MM^^
HAMILTON
71
Between:
LETTER OF AGREEMENT #24
UNIFOR - Canada, Local 973 -and .
Coca-Cola Refreshments Canada Company, Hamilton
Re: IPT Layoffs
The Company confirms that no I.P.T. Driver in Hamilton will be laid-ofTfrom his/her position as a result of the use of outside carriers.
In addition. I.P.T. Drivers will maintain the customary function as an I.P.T. Driver.
The Company acknowledges that Hamilton I.P.T drivers currently or may perform work in the following lanes:
, Weston 4 Brampton
a Delta Beverages	.
,. Power Packaging , D'Angelo Beverages ^ Orangina Mississauga D.C. w Dominion ^ Norelco „ YaYa Foods Green Grove
The Company and the Union agree to convene a meeting on a yearly basis to discuss any additions, amendments, or deletions to Ihe above list. The current scheduling practices for Hamilton IPT wi continue.
FOR THE UNION	FOR MANAGEMENT
fsign ad] ___________[signed]______________[signed]	(signed]
-Norman Chow	Dan Goulet	Berryl	Serafni	Chris Christidis
(signed)	(signed]
Bave Leonard - Mike Reuter (signedl	[signed]
James Dezeeuw	Pan Oinunaio
HAMILTON
72
Between*.
LETTER OF AGREEMENT #25
UNIFOR - Canada, Local 973 • and -
Coca-Cola Refreshments Canada Company, Hamilton
Re: Women's Advocate
The Company will recognize the appointment of a designated Women's Advocate for the Hamilton fadfity. The Union will advise the Company of the name of such appointee.
FOR THE UNION	FOR MANAGEMENT
(signed]	[signed]	(signed]	(signed|
Narmari enow	oanGoutet	uarryi suanni	cnns Christies
[signed]	(signed]
Dave Leonard	Mike Reuter
(signed]	(signed]
jawggPeafgtMl------- Dan Dinunzio
HAMILTON
73
Between:
LETTER OF AGREEMENT #26
UNIFOR - Canada, Local 973 -and -
Coca-Cola Refreshments Canada Company, Hamilton
Re: Harassment & Discrimination in the Workplace To: All Hamilton Supervisors, Managers, and Employees
Every employee, supervisor and manager has the right to work in an environment free of harassment and discrimination. The right includes the responsibility on the part of all employees to eliminate harassment and discrimination in our workplace, whether by employees, suppliers, contractors, or management.
There is no acceptable level of harassment or discrimination at Coca-Cola Refreshments Canada Company. Harassment, discrimination, whether verbal, physical, or environmental is unacceptable, will not be tolerated and may warrant discipline up to and including discharge.
The Company and union policies regarding harassment and discrimination in the workplace have been posted within the facility and have been communicated to all employees (n writing.
Further, all new hired full-time employees will be provided with the "Building a Respectful Workplace" training course presented by the UNIFOR National Office.
The Coca-Cola Refreshments Canada Company, UNIFOR Local 973, and UNIFOR National Office are committed to providing a harassment and discrimination free workplace.
FOR THE UNION		FOR MANAGEMENT	
{signed]	[signed]	[signed]	[signed]
Norman Chow	Dan Goulet	Darryl Serafmi	Chris Chrisbdis
[signed]	[signedl		
Dave Leonard	Mike RBl/ter		
[signed]	[signed]		
James Oezeeuw	Dan Diitunzio		
HAMILTON
74
Between;
LETTER OF AGREEMENT #27 UNIFOR - Canada, Local 973
-and -
Coca-Cola Refreshments Canada Company, Hamilton
Re: Ten (10) and Twelve (12) Hour Shifts
Tgn(lQ) Hour Shifts
snouia me Company decide to implement ten (10) hour shifts with fewer than three (3) consecutive days off; such shifts shall be limited to sidepocket (excluding FSV) routes. Employees on ten (10) hour shifts will be scheduled with a minimum of two (2) consecutive days off and shall not be regularly scheduled to work both Saturday and Sunday.
Twelve flffl Hour Shifts:
The Company may schedule twelve (12)-hour shifts if there are sufficient regular full-time employee volunteers from the classification concerned. Employees wil be advised of the shift schedule before volunteers are sought. In staffing such shifts, the employees will be permitted to select a particular shift within their classification (or sub group if Delivery Driver) by seniority. Employees on a twelve (12) hour shift shall not participate in the procedures in Article 9.03 (b), nor shall a twelve (12) hour shift job be subject to those procedures. The parties agree that hours of work on twelve (12) hour shift shall be three (3) consecutive twelve (12) hour shifts and be deemed as forty (40) hours worked. Vacation and sick pay credits and lieu time shall be calculated in twelve (12) hour shifts shall receive a thirty (30) minute unpaid lunch and three (3) fifteen (15) minutes breaks. Employees on twelve (12) hour shifts will not be regularly scheduled to work both Saturday and Sunday.
FOR THE UNION
[signed]
NornuriciKW
[signed]
Dave Leonard [signed]
James Dezeeuw
[signed]
Dan Gouiet Isigned]
Mike Reuter [signed]
Dan Dinunzio
FOR MANAGEMENT (signed]	[signed]
□any! Serafini	Chris Christidis
HAMILTON
75
Between:
LETTER OF AGREEMENT #28
UNIFOR - Canada, Local 973 • and •
Coca-Cola Refreshments Canada Company, Hamilton
Re: Definitions of Key Terms
For the purpose of interpreting this Collective Agreement it is agreed that the following definitions shall govern:
1.	“Principally'* as used in Article 8.08 shall not restrict an employee to the performance of only those duties commonly assigned to, or associated with, that job function. It is within the Company’s sole discretion to assign any other duties to an employee as may be required given its immediate business needs.
2.	“Harassment* as used throughout this Agreement shall refer to any course of vexatious comment or conduct that is known or ought reasonably to be known to be unwelcome and which denies individual dignity, and respect on the following grounds: race, ancestry, place of origin, colour, ethnic origin, citizenship, creed, sex, sexual orientation, age, record of offences, marital status, family status, disability or any grounds that may be specified by the Ontario Human Rights Code or any other applicable legislation.
It is understood that properly discharged supervisory responsibilities are not harassment. The pursuit of frivolous allegations of harassment could have a detrimental effect on the spirit and intent for which this definition has been developed and the pursuit of such allegations will be discouraged.
3.	“Discrimination” as used in this Agreement shall refer to unequal or differential treatment of an individual on any of the following grounds: race, ancestry, place of origin, colour, ethnic origin, citizenship, creed, sex, sexual orientation, age, record of offences, marital status, family status, disability or any grounds that may be specified by the Ontario Human Rights Code or any other applicable legislation.
It is understood that properly discharged supervisory responsibilities are not harassment. The pursuit of frivolous allegations of discrimination could have a detrimental effect on the spirit and intent for which this definition has been developed and the pursuit of such allegations will be discouraged
FOR THE UNION	FOR MANAGEMENT
[signed]
Chris Chrislidis
[signed]	[signed]
James Dezeeuw	Dan Dinunzio
[signed]
NocmaoCbow
(signedl
Dave Leonard
(signed|
Dan Goulet * • [signed]
Mike Reuter
[signed] __ DaKylSerafini
HAMILTON
76
Between:
LETTER OF AGREEMENT #29
UN1FOR - Canada, Local 973 • and -
Coca-Cola Refreshments Canada Company, Hamilton
Re: Base Plus Commission Compensation
As discussed at 2007 Negotiations, the parties agree to form a committee during the life of this collective agreement to discuss a base plus commission compensation structure for Delivery Drivers, with a view to a trial of such structure in the third year of this agreement. Such trial shall be by mutual agreement of the parlies.
FOR THE UNION		FOR MANAGEMENT	
(signed]	[signed]	[signed]	[signed]
Norman Chow	Dan Goulet	Darryl Seraflni	Chris Christidis
(signed]	[signed]		
Dave Leonard	Mike Reuter		
(signed]	[signed]		
James Dezeeuw	Dan Dinunaio		
HAMILTON
77
Between:
LETTER OF AGREEMENT #30
UNIFOR - Canada, Local 973
- and -
Coca-Cola Refreshments Canada Company, Hamilton
Re: Temporary Employees
For the purpose of this letter a temporary employee will be defined as outlined in Article 2.06
(a)
For the first sixty-five (65) shifts of this agreement, a temporary employee shall have no rights under the seniority provisions of this agreement. Their retention wil be solely at the discretion of the Company. For the purposes of the above, once a temporary employee has achieved a minimum of sixty-five (65) shifts worked, he/she will be reclassified as a "preferred temporary". The Company will not dismiss preferred temporary employees without just cause.
Temporary employees will be assigned work as follows:
1- Temporary employees will be used to replace employees on vacation. Leaves of Absence as well as to cover additional work loads.
2 Preferred temporary employees wil make themselves available for any and all work assigned by the Company. Preferred temporary employees may request in writing (with a copy provided to the Union) that they are not to be called fora given time period (not to exceed five working days), the granting of this leave from call is at the sole discretion of the Company but wil not be unreasonably denied. Preferred temporary employees that fail to make themselves available three (3) times in a six (6) month rolling period after being called in the call windows as per Article 8.09 (e) will result in a loss of "preferred" status starting with their shift count restarted at zero.
3.	To facilitate the assignment of work to temporary employees, the Company will establish, maintain and post a list of temporary employees by department. Such list will indicate each employee's accumulated shifts worked. A copy of such list will be provided to the union on a bi-weekly basis.
4.	Assigned work wiJi be made available (o temporary employees in the following order:
preferred temporary employees; temporary employees; students
5.	A temporary employee wil not normally be scheduled to work in excess of forty (40) hours per week. (i.e. in order to maximize opportunities for obtaining forty (40) hours of work per week so that the temporary employee with the most days worked (by department), is assigned work in that department ahead of other temporary workers.
Any preferred temporary employee who has worked fifty (50) countable shifts during a rolling seventeen (17) week window in the periods February 1rf to May 31s* and September 1st to January 31s1 (excluding the month of December) wil be reclassified as a regular full-time employee. His/her seniority date and service date (for the purposes of vacation and pension) win be determined by the date at which the employee attained his / her sixty-five (65) shifts.
For clarification purposes only "countable" shifts will be recorded. Countable shifts are those shifts required for any reason other than as replacements for full-time employees. This includes absences as a result of Short Term Disability, Long Term Disability (duration no greater than 2 years), WSIB approved absences, Union Leaves of Absences. 16.02 (Sick Leave - exceeding annual paid allotment) and 22 (Maternity/ Parental Leave).
HAMILTON
78
For the purposes of calculating the shifts referred to In the above paragraph, the departments shall be identified as Distribution (including FSV) and Warehouse.
Upon request of the Union, the parties will convene a meeting to review the prior year's use of temporary employees governed by this process. The Union will have the opportunity to review and present discrepancies with calculations related to the transition from temporary to full time status. If the application of this process dictates, full time positions will be initiated.
A Summer Student employee shall mean a student who is employed by the Company on a seasonal nature during the period of April 15* to September 15m. Students shall not accrue any shifts for the purposes of determining “preferred" status. If prior to September 15™ a Summer Student indicates in writing (with a copy provided to the Union) that they will not be returning to school, they will begin to aocrue days toward their ’‘preferred* status once they have notified the Company in writing of their decision.
Any temporary employee, if they leave the employment of the Company, if they are rehired will have their shift count restarted at zero for the purposes of attaining their ‘‘preferred status".
As has been the practice of the company, it will give due consideration to all temporary employees prior to hiring from outside sources when hiring regular full time employees.
AH current temporary employees will be grandfathered with their current days worked.
FOR THE UNION		FOR MANAGEMENT
(signed]	[signed]	[signed] (signed]
	□an eouiet	
(signed]	[signed]	
Dave Leonard	Mfce Reuter	
(signed]	[signed]	
James Oezeeuw		
HAMILTON
79
Between:
LETTER OF AGREEMENT #31
UNIFOR - Canada, Local 973 -and -
Coca-Cola Refreshments Canada Company, Hamilton
Re: Retiree Benefits
Employees who retire from the active service of the Company and receive a Pension Benefit from the Company’s Pension Plan shall continue to be eligible to have access to the Company’s health and welfare benefits plan for retirees provided that the qualification during the term of this Collective Agreement shall be set out in the Letters of Agreement Re: Retirement Incentive and the Retirement Incentive Package contained herein.
FOR THE UNION		FOR MANAGEMENT	
(si^ied]	[signed]	[signed]	(signed]
Norman Chow	Dan Goulet	Darryl Serafini	Chris Christidis
[signed]	[signed]		
Dave Leonard	Mike Reuter		
(signed)	[signed]		
James Dezeeuw	Dan Dinunzio		
HAMILTON
80
Between:
LETTER OF AGREEMENT #32
UNtFOR - Canada, Local 973 • and •
Coca-Cola Refreshment* Canada Company, Hamilton
Re: Payroll Letter
All employees shall be paid bi-weekly until the payroll including January 31, 2011. Employees will then revert to a weekly pay cycle on the first payroll run after January 31,2011.
During 2010 bargaining the Company and Union discussed issues related to payrol correction processing. In consideration of the importance of this issue (following the implementation of weekly pay cycles noted above) for administrative errors around vacation pay and/or basic work week pay, grievance payments, overtime pay and premium pay reported to a Supervisor's attention in time to report the error to payrol will be remitted in the following basis:
1.	Errors reported to payroll by Thursday at 8:00 AM, remittance to bank processed by end of day Friday
2.	Errors reported to payroll by Thursday at noon, remittance to bank on the next regular pay
In the event that there is a subsequent error made by payroll, an off-cyde cheque will be processed the folowing business day (excluding Tuesday).
FOR THE UNION (signed]
ttormarrOhow........
(signed]
Dave Leonard
Islgned]
[signed]
Dan Goulet (signed)
Mike Reuter (signed]
Dan Dinunzio
FOR MANAGEMENT (signed]	(signed]
Darryl Serafini	QhrisCHristidis
HAMILTON
81
Between:
LETTER OF AGREEMENT #33
UNIFOR - Canada, Local 973 -and -
Coca-Cola Refreshments Canada Company, Hamilton
Re: Hard Layoff
The Company is determined to maintain appropriate staffing that tabes into consideration the requirements of the marketplace and other customer demands.
Therefore, if during the Efe of this Collective Agreement the Company anticipates that it is necessary to reduce the workforce on a temporary basis, the Company will consider implementing a hard layoff of up to five (5) or more employees during the period spanning January 1 through March 15. These layoffs will be considered in three (3) week blocks.
it is understood that the implementation of this process shall be solely at the discretion of the Company. It is also understood that should there be a need to use temporary employees during any period of hard layoffs, any time worked by such temporary employees shall not be included in the number of days that would count towards achieving regular foil time status as outlined in Article 2.06 and the Letter re: Temporary Employees.
FOR THE UNION		FOR MANAGEMENT	
[signed]	[signed]	[signed)	[siped]
Norman Chow	Dan Goulet	oanyiserawin —	Chris Christidis
[signed]	[signed]		
Dave Leonard	Mike Reuter		
(signed]	[signed]		
James Dezeeuw	Dan Oinunzio		
HAMILTON
82
Between:
LETTER OF AGREEMENT #34
UNIFOR - Canada, Local 973 • and -
Coca-Cob Refreshments Canada Company, Hamilton
Re: Alternative Distribution
The Company and the Union agree that alternative distribution methods, resulting from a customer(s) request, such as indirect sales/store delivery, direct delivery to a customers' warehouse or a third parties warehouse on behalf of the customer rather than a customers' retal outlet, or the use of wholesalers does not constitute contracting out under Article 20 -Work of the Bargaining Unit. When there is a change to a delivery model for a particular customer, the Company will provide the Union with ten (10) days advance notice in writing prior to implementation.
FOR THE UNION		FOR MANAGEMENT	
[signed]	[signed]	[signed]	[signed)
Norman Chow	Dan Goulet	Darryl Serafinl	Chris Christidis
Mgned]	[signed]		
Dave Leonard	M&e Reuter		
[signed]	[signed]		
James Dezeeuw	Dan Dinunzio		
it
HAMILTON
83
Between:
LETTER OF AGREEMENT #35
UNIFOR - Canada, Local 973 • and •
Coca-Cola Refreshments Canada Company, Hamilton
Re: Advancement of Pay While Off On Medical Leave Pending Approval of Benefits
Should an employee apply for any occupational or non-oocupational medical leave, and require the continuation of pay pending approval of claim, the Company will advance the employee one . thousand dollars ($1000.00) per pay period until the claim is adjudicated, to a maximum of three thousand dollars ($3000.00). Pay advance(s) will not commence untfl all forms, including those providing for authorization of deductions/repayment, are duly completed and the applicable forms are sent to the third party for processing.
Should the claim be approved, the employee will be required to reimburse the Company within thirty (30) days of the receipt of the first payment from the carrier or WSIB. Should however, the claim not be approved, the employee shall authorize the Company to deduct one hundred and seventy-five ($175) per pay period, or in the case of employees who are laid off, to repay $23.00 per day worked, in order to reimburse the Company from the initial payments) until all such advances have been recouped in frill. Such payments shall commence on the employee’s first pay date upon return to work. If the WSIB or WIB claim is approved and the employee has not paid his cash advance within thirty (30) days of the receipt of the first payment from the carrier or WSIB, the Company is authorized to deduct monies owed at the rate of two hundred and thirty ($230.00) per pay period, and he/she wi not be eligible to apply for a cash advance in the future.
Further, all balances from outstanding pay advances must be fully recouped prior to an employee being eligible for subsequent pay advances for subsequent claims.
It is understood that the prooess of pay advance may be used in situations where an employee receives a government issued certificate of Quarantine (i.e..SARS etc.).
FOR THE UNION		FOR MANAGEMENT	
lafinsd)	(signed]	[signed]	[signed]
Norman Chow	uan Goulet		” Danyl Serafim	Chris Chrisfidls
(signed]	[signed]		
Dave Leonard	MAe Reuter		
[signed]	(signed]		
James Dezeeuw	Dan Dinunzio		
HAMILTON
84
Refreshments Canada Company
NAME;
REQUEST FOR PAY ADVANCE - HAMILTON PLANT
.	EMPLOYEE #:
DEPT:
SUPERVISOR:
TERMS AND CONDITIONS
<• Pursuant to the Letter of Agreement #35,1 hereby request to receive a pay advance of $1,000 per pay period while my claim for WSIB or disability benefits is being processed.
♦	I understand that I wfll continue to receive such advances weekly on a go-forward basis effective from the date of this request Advances wffl cease when one of the following conditions is satisfied: a) my claim is picked up by the WSIB or the insurance carrier; b)
I return to work; c) my daim is denied by either the WSIB or the insurance earner and is not pursued through the appeal process provided by either the WSIB or the insurance carrier or; d) I request such advances to stop prior to any of the conditions outlined in a), b) or c) above, being satisfied.
<• 1 understand that there will be no retroactive advances provided for weeks of absences prior to the date of this request
*	My signature below is good and sufficient authority to have my daim payments from either the WSIB or the insurance carrier paid directly to the Company only to the extent that such payment satisfied the amount of any outstanding pay advance 1 owe to the Company at that time. If, for any reason, the amount of pay advance I owe to the company exceeds the daim payment made by either the WSIB or the insurance carrier, I acknowledge full responsibility for repayment of all such monies.
*> I acknowledge and understand that if at any time I fail to repay the Company the amount of the cash advance in compliance with the terms in the Letter Advancement of Pay While Off On Medical Leave Pending Approval of Benefits, and the Company is unable to obtain the funds from the WSIB or the 1 nsurance Carrier, the Company can recoup the funds from any monies which may be owing to me, and I will not be allowed to apply for any future cash advances.
♦	I further understand that in the event that either the WSIB or the insurance carrier denies my claim and such daim is not pursued through the appeal process provided by either the WSIB or the insurance carrier, then 1 will make repayment arrangements with the Company Immediately. *
*	My signature below is also good and suffident authority tor Coca-Cola Refreshments to automatically deduct repayment installments (as described above) directly from my pay cheque.
EMPLOYEE SIGNATURE:	_________________ DATE: ______________________________
COMPANY SIGNATURE:	DATE:
HAMILTON
85
Between:
LETTER OF AGREEMENT#36
UNIFOR - Canada, Local 973 -and*
Coca-Cola Refreshments Canada Company, Hamilton
Re: Signing Page Concerning Letters
The Company and Union agree that the following list of Appendices and Letters have been agreed to and by signing this letter, it has the effect of signing each letter in the list The list is as follows:
1.	Retirement Incentive Program (Incentive Program”)
2.	Employees' Retirement Ran
3.	Buy Back
4.	Individual Preferences
5.	Sales Equipment Service Technicians and Trainee
6.	Long-Term Disability Plan
7.	CCWIPP Pension Ran and Collective Agreement (expiration dale of December 31, 2007) - Between CCBC and UFCW175 - "FOR REFERENCE PURPOSES ONLY"
8.	Previous Service Increase (also referred to as Current Service Adjustment) for the period from 1989 - 2000 - "FOR REFERENCE PURPOSES ONLY"
9.	Christmas/New Year’s Schedule
10.	Substance Abuse
11.	FSV Incentive Program
12.	Customer Interviews
13.	Cleaning of Front Offices
14.	First Fills
15.	UNIFOR LOCAL 973 McMaster Children’s Hospital Fund
16.	Meeting with New Hires
17.	"Pullback” Definition
18.	Workplace Accommodations
19.	Disability Dispute Resolution Process
20.	Union Elections
21.	Training Matrix for Equipment Service Trainee
22.	Equipment Service Trainees
23.	Minutes of Silence
24.	IPT Layoffs
25.	Women's Advocate
26.	Harassment A Discrimination in the Workplace
27.	Ten (10) and Twelve (12) Hour Shifts
28.	Definitions of Key Terms
29.	Base Plus Commission Compensation
30.	Temporary Employees
31.	Retiree Benefits
32.	Payroll Letter
33.	Hard Layoffs
34.	Alternative Distribution
35.	Advancement of Pay While Off On Medical Leave Pending Approval of Benefits
HAMILTON
86
DATED AT HAMILTON. ONTARIO THIS 26th DAY OF November, 2013. FOR THE UNION	FOR MANAGEMENT
HAMILTON
87