HtUMMMMf*
SOURCE	c*\			
			oS	03
TERM,	D(		01	3/
No. OF EMPLOYEE'S		38o		
•JO M3 RE ' ^ QYfs				
COLLECTIVE
AGREEMENT
between
COCA-COLA BOTTLING LTD.
and
CAW-CANADA
Expires - July 31,2001

hay ft m
TABLE CF CONTENTS
ARTICLE NUMBER	PAGE NUMBER
Article 1 - Purpose	2
Article 2 - Definitions	2
Article 3 - Representation	2
Article 4 - Management Rights	5
Article 5 - No Strikes or Lockouts	5
Article 6 - Union Activities	5
Article 7 - Grievances	®
Article 8 - Seniority	1 *
Article 9 - Hours of Work/Overtime	23
Article 10 • Night 3iiffc Premium	27
Article 11 - Holiday Pay	28
Article 12 - Vacation	50
Article 13 - Long Service Leave	54
Article 14 - Work Clothing	34
Article 15 - Bereavement Pay	36
Article 16 - Paid Time CEE	36
Article 17 - Wages	38
Article 18 - Technological Change	41
Article 19 - Safety	44
Article 20 - Work of the Bargaining Unit	45
Article 21 - Health Insurance Plans	45
Article 22 - Paid Education Leave	47
Article 23 - ftrial Justice Fund	48
Article 24 - Tool Allowance
Article 25 - Duration	£_48	j
Appendix ’A" - Rules of Arbitration	49
Letter of Agreement - Employees Retirement Plan	51
Letter of Agreement - New Employee Orientation	54
Letter of Agreement • Disability Benefits	55
Letter of Intent-Substance Abuse	57
Letter of Intent- 'Red-Circled" Rates of Pay	58
letter of Intent - Full-Service Vending	59
Letter of Intent - Voluntary Early Retirement Incentive Program	60
Letter of Intent - Direct Deliveries	62
Letter of Intent - Ten Hour Shifts	63
Letter of Intent - ftgrnll Advances	64
company Issued Letter	65
company Issued Letter	66
Letter of Intent - Paid Time Off - Union Executive Committee	68
Letter of Intent - Load Checking	69
Letter of Intent - Production Department * Machine Operators	70
Letter of intent - Preferred Work - Tborncliffe Distribution Dept.	21
Letter of Intent - Occupational Health and Safety Act & Regulations	22
Letter of Intent-Four Day Ten Hour Work Periods	23
Letter of Intent - Previous oannitmaits Renewed	75
Letter of Intent ■ Memorandum of Settlement - January 16, 1998	77
Letter of Intent • No discipline. Grievances. Reprisals	78
TORONTO PLANT/1
TORONTO
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
COCA-COLA BOTTLING LTD. (Toronto) hereinafter referred to as the "Company"
NATIONAL AUTOMOBILE, AEROSPACE, TRANSPORTATION AND GENERAL WORKERS UNION OF CANADA (CAW-CAN AD A) hereinafter referred tons L e "Union"
ARTICLE 1-PURPOSE
1 -01	1 is the purpose of this Agreement to promote harmonious relations between the Company
and its employees and to provide an amicable method of settling differences.
ARTICLED - DEFINITIONS
2.01	The word "employees" wherever used in this Agreement shall mean all employees of the Company at 42 Overlea Blvd., 46 Overlea Blvd, ("Thomcliffe"). and at 35 Ironside Crescent ('Ironside"), save and except cffim staff, account managers, sales supervisors, operations supervisors and persons above the rank cf supervisor.
2.02	A "probationary employee" (including a temporary employee) shall meenan employee who has not yet completed sixty-five (65) days cf actual work within a period of six (6) consecutive months. On completion of his/her probationary period, such employee shall be credited with seniority tom a date which is die most recent cf: (i) the last date of hire; cr (ii) a date which is six (6) months prior to the date on which he/she completed his/her probationary period. A probationary employee shall have no rights under the sarioity provisions of this Agreement but may be discharged for any reason prior to the successful completion of their probationary period, provided the Company does not act arbitrarily, ductiminaloiy or in bad faith or in contravention of any provision of this Agreement. It is agreed that the standard for dismissing probationary employees as reflected in this section is a laser standard within the meaning of the Labour Relations Act.
2.03	"Temporary employee" shall mean an employee who is engaged by the Company to perform work of a temporary nature.
TORONTO PLANT/2
Temporary employees shall have no seniority rights and their retention shall be solely at the discretion of the Company.
Any tenporary employee who has worked in excess of 190 days in a continuous 12 month period will automatically be classified as a regular employee at which time his seniority date shall be determined as sixty-five (65) working days prior to that date. For vacation and pension purposes, he will be credited with one (1) day's service for every twenty (20) hours worked as a temporary employee in the previous two (2) years,
During the periods January 1 to March 31 (or the Monday prior to Good Friday, whichever comes first) and October 1 to November 14 in any year the number of temporary employees employed may not exceed twenty-five percent (25%) of the number of regular employees employed in the bargaining unit.
2.04	The expression "outside employee" wherever used in this Agreement shall mean an employee in the category of sales representative, delivery salesperson-in-charge, delivery salesperson, including those outside employees performing the duties of special events person, and highway tractor trailer driver.
2.05	The expression "inside employee" wherever used in this Agreement shall mean an employee vtfto is not an "outsideemployee".
ARTICLE 3 - REPRESENTATION
3.01	The Company recognizes the Union as the exclusive bargaining agent of the employees as herein defined.
3.02	The Company and the Union agree there will be no intimidation, harassment, discrimination, interference, restraint or coercion exercised or practised by either of than or their representatives or membas with respect to any employee of the Company by reason of membership or non-membership in the Union, union activity or by reason of age. race, creed, colour, natural origin, disability, religious affiliation, sex, sesual orientation, marital or family status.
3.03	(a) Every employee (other thana temporary employee) shall, on completion of his/her
probationary period and as a condition of his/her continued employment, become and remain a member, in good standi, of the Union.
(b)	The Union agrees that it v\ei not refuse membership to any employee withoutjust cause. Whenever an employee is suspended or expelled from membership the Union wi give the Company, in writing, the reasons for such action.
TORONTO PLANT/3
3 • 04	(a) Eveiy employee shall, as a condition of his/her continued employment, authorize
the Company in writing to deduct from each pay payable to him/her thereafter during the life of this Agreement, and during the life of any subsequent Collective Agreement containing similar provisions, such amount as may from time to time be certified in writing ty the Union to the Company as being the amount of Union Dues currently payable.
(b)	Every new employee (other than a temporary employee) shall, on completion of his/her probationaiyperiod, complete and sign an application for membership in the Union and an authorization for deduction from his/her pay of such amount as may at that time be certified by the Union to the Company as being the amount of the Union's standard Initiation Fee.
(c)	The application for Union membership and authorization for the deduction of initiation fees and dues shall be on forms supplied by the Union.
(d)	Initiation Fees and Union Dues deducted by the Company shall be remitted to the Financial Secretary of the Union prior to the 15th day of the month following the month in which such deductions were made, together with such detail and explanationsas may be reasonably required.
3.05	(a) It is recognized and mutually agreed that management may, fisan time to time
have occasion to interview employees with respect to their job performance and that the objective of such interviews is corrective in nature, rather than punitive. Such interviews will normally be conducted on a "one on one" basis. However, should it became necessary to officially want an employee that failure to improve his/her record with the Company may result in disciplinary action being taken, such employee wi be advised that he/she may, if be/she so wishes, have a Steward present at such meeting. The giving of the warning shall be confirmed to the employee and Steward by the Company in writing at that time. A copy of such letter will be nailfld to the Union's cCEke.
(b)	After a period of eighteen (18) months free of any warning or suspension, or a period of two (2) years in any event, previous warnings or disciplinary actions wi not be used in progressive steps or in arbitrations.
3.06	Once each garter, the Company wi provide the Union vdih a listing of enployees holding seniority standing showing the last address and telephone number provided to the Company. It shall be the responsibility of eadi eqplgyee to advise the Company regarding their change of address, phone number, dependants or marital status and beneficiary.
TORONTO PLANT/4
ARTICLE 4 -MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
4.01	The Union agrees that, subject to the restrictions imposed by law, the Company has the exclusive right to manage and operate its Plants and equipment and to cany on its business. The Union also agrees that, subject to the restrictions imposed by law or by the terms of this Agreement, the Company has the right to decide from time to tine all natters relating to the terras and conditions of employment of the employees, including the duties and conduct to be required of them. The Company agrees that it will not discipline, suspend or discharge any employee withoutjust cause. The Company further agrees that the Union and the employees shall have the right to grieve should the Company exercise any of its functions in violation of, or inconsistent with, any provision of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 5 - NO STRIKES OR LOCKOUTS
5.01	There shall be no strikes or lockouts so long as this Agreement continues to operate. The terms " strikes" and "lockouts" will have the sans definitions as those set out in the Labour Relations Act of Ontario.
ARTICLE 6 - UNION ACTIVITIES
6.01	There shall be no Union activities during working hours which interfere with the duties of any employee unless permission is first obtained firm the employee's immediate stpervisar. Such permission will not be unreasonably withheld and all such time cff during an employee's regular working hours shall be without loss of pay.
6.02	The Company will make available for the use of the Union a bulletin board at each Plant whereon the Union may post such notices as it desires to bring to the attention of employees provided, however, that no such notice may be posted at places other than on these bulletin boards and further provided that no such notice may be posted util it has been signed by an Officer of the Union and by a representative of management
6.03	From time to time during the currency of this Agreement, upon the written request of the Union, the Company wi grant leaves of absence without pay to the employees named in such request to enable them to participate in Union activities. No such leave of absence shall be for a period of less than one day or more than seven days except that where a leave is granted to an employee to enable him/her to attend a Union convention, the maximum of seven (7) days may be exceeded to the extent of necessary travel time to the place of convention asd return. No more than ten (10) such leaves will be granted in any one year cf the currency of this Agreement and no more than four (4) employees may be absent on such, leave at any one time. If the maximum cf ten (10) leaves in any year of ths Agreement has been granted, the Company will consider any further request for such leave in that year on an individual basis.
TORONTO PLANT/5
6.04	Fran time to time during the currency of this Agreement and upon the written request of the Union, the Company will giant a leave of absence without pay to any employee for the purpose of attending to UrLcn business. Such leave of absence shall be for a period of not less than one (1) month and not more than two (2) employees from each plant shall be entitled to any such leave of absence at any one time. Where such leave is to be for a period of less than one (1) year, the Union shall specify the period to be covered. If the leave is expected to be required for a period in excess of one (I) year, it shall be treated as an indefinite leave of absence and the Company's approval of such leave shall be considered to continue throughout the life of this Agreement. To the extent that it is practical to do so, the Company will endeavour to arrange for the continuance of both Company and Government welfare benefits while an employee is absent on such leave.
6.05	With respect to employees granted leave of absence under the provisions of clauses 6.03 and 6.04 above, it is agreed that on the written request of the Union:
(a)	Each employee shall receive from the Company in respect of each day of absence
on such leave, an amount equivalent to:
(i)	the regular straight-time hourly rate then in effect for his/her employment classification, multiplied ty eight (8) hours,
-LESS-
(ii)	all deductions normally withheld by law firm an employee's pay and, if applicable, the employee's contributions to the Extended Gkxxp Insurance Elan,the Employees' Retirement Elan and the Employee Stock Ownership Elai.
<b> The ttrim shall promptly reimburse the Company for the sum of:
(i)	the gross amount of the payment calculated as set out in (a) (i) above,
- PLUS-
(u) with the exception of leaves of absence granted under the provisions of clause 6.03 above, any amount which becomes payable by the Company as a result of the Company having made to my employee a payment under the provisions of (a) above (e.g. Company contributions to the Employees' Retirement plan, the Employee Stock Ownership Plan, the Extended Group Insurance Elan. Unemployment Insurance,Government Pension Elen and EfialftiEtan.de).
In the event of failure of the Union to so reimburse the Company, all payments to
employees under (a) above shal immediately cease.
TORONTO PLANT/6
c) In consideration of the agreement of the Conpany to make payments as provided above, the Union agrees to indemnify the Company and save it harmless from and against any and all claims, payments, and costs of any Jcind which it may receive, make or suffer, directly or indirectly, through having agreed to make and having made such payments, deductions and contributions or ty reason of any imputed employment relationship which nk^k be alleged to exist between such employee and the Company by reason of the making of such payments.
6.06	(a) Every Union Steward and every officer of the Union who is an employee shall be
allowed such time efif as may be necessary to enable him/her to attend those appointments with management personnel at which his/her presence is required under the provisions of Article 7 and every employee who is a necessary witness at a grievance meeting or at a grievance arbitration hearing established under Article 7 shall be allowed such time eff as may be necessary to enable him/her to give evidence at such hearing.
(b)	Should a Union Steward or Union Officer be scheduled to be on duty during the time in which a regularly scheduled meeting of the general membership of the Union is to be held, such Steward shall (provided his/her request is made at least 24 hours in advance) be allowed such time eff work as may be reasonably required in the circumstancesto permit him/her to attend such meeting.
(c)	The allowing of time eff under the provisions of this clause 6.06 shall be subject to the employee having obtained permission to leave hisher work from hisher Supervisor. All such time eff during an employee's regular working hours shal be Without loss of pay, provided, however, that the Company may discontinue paying for such time efif, if, in its qainion. the privilege of requesting such time eff is being abused.
6.07	The granting of my leave of absence under clauses 6.03 or 6.04 cr 6.06 may be refused by the Company when the granting of the same would be unreasonablehaving regard to the requirements of operations.
6.08	At the request of the lhim,the Company will grant time eff, without loss of pay during the employee's regular working hours, to not more than four (4) employees and to rry employee holding the rffirp of Resident of Local Union 385 to allow than to be members of the Union Negotiating Committee and to enable them to attend arranged meetings With Company representatives or with a Conciliation Officer for the purpose of negotiating a renewal of this Collective Agree treat. The allowing of my such time eff shall, however, be subjeetto the employee having obtained permission to leave his/her work fern 2s£ar Supervisor.
TORONTO PLANT/7
ARTICLE 7 - GRIEVANCES
7.01	The Union Stewards herein referred to shall be employees of the Company and shall not be more than ten (10) in number. The Union will notify the Company in writing of the names of such Stewards and may also notify the Company of the names of not more than an equal number of additional employees who may serve as alternate Stewards in the absence fran work of a regular Steward. The Company will not recognize any individual as a Steward until it has received such notification from the Union.
7.02	a) b)
c)
d)
e)
7.03	INDIVIDUAL GRIEVANCE
An employeewho has a complaint or a grievance will ordinarily discuss the matter with hisher immediate stpervisarand if the matter is not resolved in that discussion, he/she may refer the question to hisher Steward for consideration. However, should the nature of the complaint or grievance be such that the employee prefers to refer it to hisher steward first, then he/she may do so.
A Steward «h»n be permitted reasonable tune off work without loss of his regular pay for purposes of investigating and processing of grievances. The employee shall first seek permission from his/her supervisor iod wi DOtify his/her supervisor upon tirir return to work, such permission «hall not be unreasonably withheld.
TORONTO PLANT/8
y
In this Agreement a "grievance" shall consist only of a difference concerningthe interpretation, application, administration or alleged violation of any provision of this Agreement, including any question as to whether a matter is arbitrable. Should any complaint or misunderstanding arise which is not a "grievance'' as defined above and if the matter is not resolved with reasonable promptness, it maybe taken up through the procedure provided herein for the hearing of grievances; it being understood and agreed, however, that such a matter shall not, under any circumstances, be taken to arbitration.
If any question arises as to whether a particular difference is or is not a grievance w ithin the meaning of this Agreement, that question may be taken up through the grievance procedure and determined, if necessary, by arbitration.
A grievance shall not he considered where the grievance originated more than ten (10) working days after the employee and the Union became aware of the circumstances or ought reasonably to have been aware cf the circumstances. Ebr the purpose of this Article, Public Holidays, Saturday and Sunday shall not be working days.
There shal be an earnest <&rt on the part of the employes and both parties to this Agreement to deal with complaints and grievances promptly through the procedure provided below.
Step 1
If a complaint or grievance is referred by an employee to his/her Steward and if the Steward considers that there may be a reasonable basis for the complaint or grievance, the employee and the Steward may refer the matter orally or in writing to the appropriate management representative.
Step 2
If the complaint or grievance remains unsettled for three (3) working days after the time of its presentation at Step 1, it may, within a further three (3) working days be referred in writing at Step 2, in sufficient detail to define the issue, to the appropriate management representative (or his/her designate).
step 3
If the complaint or grievance remains unsettled for three (3) working days after its presentation at Step 2, it may. within five (5) working days after the hearing at Step 2 be referred in writing at Step 3 in sufficient detail to define the issue, to the appropriate management representative or his designate. Within five (5) working days of the submission of a complaint or grievance at Step 3 the management representative (and/or such other persons, Including the grievor's immediate supervisor, as he/she may designate) shall meet with the grievor or representative of the grievors, his/her Steward, and a fulltime representativec£the Uhicn (and/or such other persons, up to two (2) in number, as he/she may designate) to discuss the matter. The Company's decision will be given in writing, with sufficient explanations,to the employee, Steward, and the Union President or his/her designee within three (3) working days after such meeting.
7.04	COLLECTIVE GRIEVANCE
Should a group of two (2) cr more employees who have a complaint cr grievance based upon the umt provision or provisions of this Agreement or upon similar facts desire to have such matter dealt with collectively rather dun as individual complaints or grievances, they may, provided it is done with reasonable promptness, present such matter in writing signed by each such aggrieved employee to the appropriate management representative, setting out sufficient detail to define the issue, An opportunity for oral discussion between the officials of the Union (not exceeding four (4) in nuniber) and representatives of management (not exceeding four (4) in number) will be given, and failing agreement, the Company shall deliver to the Union a reply in writing within ten working days after receipt of the written submission.
7.05	COMPANY/UNION GRIEVANCE
Should any grievance cr complaint arise directly between the Company and the Chian, it should be dealt with as follows: it may, provided it is done with reasonable promptness, be presented in writing by either of such parties to the other, setting out sufficient detail
TORONTO PLANT/9
to define the issue. An opportunity for oral discussion between the officials of the union (not exceeding four (4) in number) and representatives of management (not exceeding four (4) in number) will be given, and failing agreement, the party to whom such matter was submitted shall deliver to the other party a reply in writing to such submission within ten (10) working days after the receipt of such submission.
7.06	SUSPENSION OR DISCHARGE
(a)	When an employee is to be suspended or discharged, such employee will be advised that he/she may, if he/she so wishes, have his/her Steward present for such meeting and the reasons for such suspension or discharge will be given. In any event, an employee who is suspended or discharged will be given an opportunity to discuss the matter with his/her Steward before leaving the Company's premises.
Such suspension or discharge shall be confirmed to the employee by the Company in writing and a copy of such letter will be mailed to the Itoian'scfEke.
(b)	Any grievance relating to the suspension or discharge of any employee shall be submitted directly at Step 3 of the Individual Grievance Procedure within eight (8) working days of such suspension or discharge and not otherwise. In the event that it should be decided that the suspension or discharge of any employee is without just cause, the Company shall reinstate such employee and pay full compensation at the employee's regular hourly rate for time lost (to a maximum of forty (40) hours per week) after written complaint against such suspension or discharge has been received by the Company. Import such reinstatement, there shall be deemed to have been no break in such employee's service with the Company.
7.07	APPROPRIATE MANAGEMENT REPRESENTATIVE
The "appropriate management representative" as referred to in the grievance procedures shall be is follows:
Step 1 - Supervisor Step2 • Department Manager
Step 3 • General Sales Manager or Manufacturing Operations Manager
7.08	GENERAL
Should any employee, employees, the thim or the Company take advantage of the procedure provided herein for the hearing of ccnplaintsand grievances, each step in such procedure (up to and including, in the case of a grievance only, the request for appointment of an arbitrator)required to effect a final dispositionof the matter shall be taken by such employee, employees, the Uikn or the Company, as the case may be, within the tine limits set forth in this Agreement or the matter shall be deemed to have been abandoned. In determining such tine limits, no account shal be taken of the day on
TORONTO PLANT/10
which the complaint or grievance was presented and any time limit fued by this Agreement may be extended by written agreement of the Company and the Union. Saturdays, Sundays, observed holidays and scheduleddays offihall not count as "working days" as referred to in this Article 7,
7,09	ARBITRATION
Should any grievance (as defined in clause 7.02 (a) hereof) arise which is not satisfactorily determined under the foregoing provisions, and should either the Union or the Company desire to carry the ratter further, the matter shall then, by notice in writing given to the other party within ten (10) working days from the giving of the latest decision referred to above, be referred either ty the Company or the Union to arbitration as provided for in Appendix "A" hereto. It is understood and agreed that complaints and misunderstandings as referred to in clause 7.02 (b) hereof, shall not be arbitrable.
ARTICLE 8 - SENIORITY
8.01	(a)	Seniority of an employee shall mean the length oftus/her unbroken serahoewith the
Company in the Bargaining Unit covered by this Agreement, except as provided in clauses 8,01 (b) below.
(b)	It is agreed that clause 8.01 (a) above shall not be applied to alterany seniority date which has been established prior to the effectivedate of this Agreement.
(c)	An employee who is transferred fern the Bargaining Unit to a job with the Company outside the Bargaining Unit may only return to the Unit to fill a vacancy which would otherwisebe filled by a new hire. In such a case, the employee's SEtrinrity date would be the date on which he re-entered the Bargaining Unit.
8.02	For the purposes of layoff and recall, which are anticipated to last in excess of 5 working days, employees wi be laid df and recalled as outlined in this article. Article 8, Section
8.09	(b) and will be deemed to be on one seniority list.
For the purposes of layoff and recall, which are anticipated to last 5 or less working days, employees wi be laid off and recalled as outlined in Article 8, Section 8.09 (c).
8.03	A seniority list shall be maintained by the Company showing the name and seniority date of each employee who has acquired seniority under this Agreement. If two of mare employees are hired on the same day, the times of hiring will determine their seniority ranking. Hu* list wi be brought up to date every three (3) months and, at each revision, will be posted on the Union bulletin board for a period of five (5) working days. During that interval any employee whose name appears on the list for the first time may question his/her seniority ranking if he/she is in disagreement with it. If no written complaint is
TORONTO PLANT/11
received by the Company within five (5) working days of the posting of the seniority list, the revisions ccntained in that list shall be d«m*j to be correct ty all concerned. A copy of the updated list wIL be provided lo the Union office.
8.04	An employee's service with the Company shall be broken if that employee:
(a)	quits,
(b)	is laid c£F for a period of twenty-four (24) ncntiis or more,
(c)	is discharged and is not reinstated.
(d)	fails to return to work on the expiration of any period of leave granted by the Company unless excused fcy the Company,
(e)	is absent from woik for more than three (3) consecutive working days without having notified the Company and received permission to be absent, which permission shall not be unreasonably withheld,
(f)	otherwise ceases to be employed by the Company.
8.05	In making transfers, promotions, demotions, layoffs, and recalls from layoffs seniority shall govern, provided the employee can satisfactoriIyfulfil the normal requirements of thejob.
8 .06 JOB POSTING
(a)	When a regular full-timejob becomes vacant, the Company shall post a notioe of such job vacancy on the Union buUetio board for a period of three (3) working days. During that period, m y employee may make written application for the vacantjob and all such applications will receive consideration in accordance with the provisions of clause 8.05 hereof.
(b)	The Company will select the successful applicant with in five (5) working days of the close of the posting period and wi, within a further three (3) days, advise the employees of its decision by posting that information on the Union bulletin board.
(c)	If an employee was absent on vacation or an approved absence (not in excess of twelve (12) months) at the time of posting of ajob for which he/she is qualified, he/ahe may apply for consideration for that job within five (5) days of his/her return to work, and if accepted by the Company, he/she shall then displace any
TORONTO PLANT/12
employee previously selected to till such vacancy.
(d)	In the event that the Company has no employee who can satisfactorily fulfill the normal requirements of a job vacancy, and if there is. at the time, no qualified employee on layoffwho wishes to exercise the right of tenpacaxy transfer provided
f
for in clause 8.09(d) hereof, the Company may hire a new employee to fill such vacancy. The Company may fill any vacancy, temporarily, pending completion of procedures set out herein.
(e)	When an employee has received a change of job or shift assignment under the provisions of this clause 8.06:
(i) he/she shall not be entitled to apply for a posted vacancy during the following six months, unless suchjob vacancy is in a wage bracket higher than his/her own or would enable a change of shift; and
(ij) if the change of job involved a transfer to the position of Service Equipment Serviceperson trainee, the employee will not be entitled to again apply for a job during the twelve (12) months following completion of the training period and certification as a Service Equipment Serviceperson.
(f)	Job postings for Sis position of General Help or Production Person will identify the shift, department and principal "function" within the Job Classification. For this purpose only, the following "functions" will be recognized;
W.B.No.l • Job Classification; General Help Ehncdcns:
•	Principally Sweeping/Cleaning
•	General Duties
W,B,No.2 ■ Job Classification:producUcnPerson Functions:
•	Principally Truck Washiag/Gassing
•	Principally todiine T ender Crew
•	Principally Fork Lift Operator
•	Principally Load Consolidation/Sorting
•	Principally Piling/Unpiling
•	Washing/Filling Product Tanks
TORONTO PL ANT/13
General Duties
Employees may bid to the principal liinction of Fork Lift Operator if they are in W.B. No. 2 even if they have not been in that wage bracket for a period of six (6) months.
It is expressly agreed that the function descriptions set out above are intended solely to identify the general or predominant nature of the tasks assigned to any employee and shall not in any way limit the Company's ability to assign other duties or tasks within the Job Classification.
(g)	In the case of 'D.S.l.C.'s*, the Company will identify the Sales Areas into which the particular plant's sales territory is divided (e.g. Sales Area "A". Sales Area "B", etc.). This identification will permit employees to identify the general or predominant nature of the work assignments in a particular Sales Area. It shall not, however, be construed as an exclusive definition of the woik to be performed; rather, it is understood and agreed that employees may from time-to-time be assigned deliveriesvhidi ate of a kind or location other than those associated vith the general or predominant nature of the Sales Area. Individual work assignments will be determined on the following basis:
(i)	For each such Sales Area, the Company shall establish a basic D.S.I.C. compleo*nt representing the number of D.S.l.C.'s which it anticipates will be required in the specific Sales Area on a year-arouad basis.
(ii)	When a regular, full-time vacancy (as referred to in clause 8.06(a) cf the Collective Agreement) should occur in the basic D.S.I.C. complement for any Sales Area, the ensuing jcib posting wi identify the Sate Area in which the vacancy exists.
(iii)	D.S.l.C.'s who are assigned to a specific Sales Area, either as a result of the general reassignment or as a result of application of the job posting procedure will (for the purpose of this understanding) be refereed to as "regularly" assigned D.S.l.C.'s, while all other D.S.l.C.'s wH be referred teas "spares".
iv) Ifonany day the sales volume ofa Sales Area is such that not all regularly assigned D.S.l.C.'s are required, the mostjunior of the employees in that Area will be temporarily reassigned to another Sales Area in which there is a vacant route that day. In the event that there should be no vacant route.
TORONTO PLANT/! 4
then such employ#* shall displace the mostjunior of all regularly assigned D.S.I.C.'s in the same location who, in turn, shall become a Delivery Salesperson for that day.
(v)	Any routes which remain vacant 'after the assignment of all available regularly assigned D.S.I.C.'s shall then be assigned to spare D.S.I.C.'s from the location.
(vi)	Should an additional Sales Area be required on an temporary basis, the D.S.I.C.'s required in such Area will be assigned on a temporary basis. Similarly, should a Sales Area be temporarily discontinued, the affected D.S.I.C, '$ will be temporarily re-assigned elsewhere.
(vii)	When it is determined that an additional Sales Area will be required on a 'permanent1' basis, the basic complement of D.S.I.C.'s for that Area will be filled ty the job posting procedure.
(viii)	When it is determined that a Sales Area is to be "permanently" discontinued
and if there are no corresponding additions to complement in other Sales Areas, then the D.S.I.C.'s who were so displaced shall in turn displace the mostjunior of all regularly assigned D.S.l.C. 's,
(h)	While the intent of clauses 8.06 (0 and (g) is to provide employees with a means of expressing personal preference in the assignment of their regular duties, it is understood and agreed that it shall remain the sole responsibility of the Company to determine the number of experienced personnel required on any job or shift.
(j) Notwithstanding anything herein contained, it is mutually understood and agreed that includable inability to meet satisfactory standards of performance may be grounds for a non-dbctpimary change of assignment within the Job Classification of Production Person or Delivery Salesperson^ Charge.
8.07 It is understood and agreed that the provisions of clause 8.0$ shall apply only in the case of "permanent" vacancies. However, when there is a temporary vacancy in a Department at a location (including vacancies created by the addition of baqpcKaxy drifts), and the Company expects such work to be available for a period in excess of five (5) working days, the Company shall, insofar as the requirements and efficiency of operations nil permit, make such tHipryrry assignment available to qualified employees on a seniority basis. For this purpose, seniority riiall be recognized by Job Classification, within
TORONTO PLANT/15
Y
departmental groupings (as per 12.09 (f) hereof). On completion of such a temporary assignment, the affected employee will revert to his/her regular job and/or shift, provided such work is available for him/her, cr otherwise he/she shall be re-assigned having regard to his/her seniority and the provisions of this Agreement.
While the intent of this clause is to provide employees with a means of expressing perscnal preference for temporary assignments of reasonable duration, it is understood and agreed that it shall remain the sole responsibility of the Company to determine the number of experienced personnel required on any job or shift.
In the event that a position which has been filled on a temporary basis should continue to be required for a period in excess of six (6) months, such position will thereupon be considered as a “permanent" position and shall then be posted as provided for in clause 8.06 hereof.
when in thejudgement of the Company it is practical, appropriateand timely to do so. the Company will endeavour to make available to employees who are likely to be candidates for a temporary promotion (and who would otherwise be qualified for such temporary promotion) a: who are likely to be subject to layoff, the opportunity of receiving such training as may be necessary to enable them to satisfactorily perform the work so made availableto them An employee who has received such training shall not then be entitled to refuse an assignmentto the position for which be/she has been trained.
8.08	DEMOTIONS
If, as the direct result of a reduction in the work faroe, one or more demotions should become necessary, it is agreed that the provisions of clause 8.05 hereof shall be observed. It is understood, however, that this claw 8.08 shall not apply in the case of an employee who is demoted as a result of his/her misconduct or his/her inability to satisfactorily perform the work required; it being further understood, however, that if within three (3) months of receiving a promotion an employee requests to be relieved of his/her new responsibilities or is demoted due to his/her inability to satisfkterily perform such new duties, be/she shal be permitted to revert to his/her former position and, in so doing, may displace the employee who succeeded him/her in that position.
8.09	LAYOFFS
For the purpose of layoff and recall as outlined in this Article. Article 8.09, employees will be allowed to exercise their seniority between locations when the layoff or recall is for more than five (5) working days. When the layoff or recall is for five (5) cr less working days, employees will be entitled to exercise their seniority for the purpose of layoff within the location ad for purposes of recall between locations.
Whenever layoffs in a seniority group are necessary, they shall be accomplished as follows:
TORONTO PLANT/16
(a)	Senior employees will be allowed to exercise their seniority rights to elect layoff, provided they have indicated preference to the Company in advance in writing.
(b)	Where a layoff is for more than five (5) working days, the Company shall first lay off temporary employees and that probationary employees, if any, at the location affected. If further reduction of staff is required, the Company shall then lay off regular employees in accordance with the provisions of clause 8.05 hereof, it being understood that, in this instance, seniority is reversed (i.e. the most junior person will be the first laid off), Provided that the layoff of a regular employee at 46 Overlea Blvd., or 81 Tumberry Avenue is expected to last for more than five (5) working days, such layoff wH be handled in accordance with the combined Overlei/Turnberry seniority list. If any employee is to be laid (££for a period of more than five (5) working days, he/she shall receive five (5) working days MallHi notice of such layoff. In the event that such layoff does not actually take effect within thirty (30)days of the giving cf the notice, that notice will be deemed to have been cancelled. The Union will be provided with a copy cf all notices of layoff.
It is mutually agreed that for the purposes of administration of the foregoing paragraph, the term "in accordance with the provisions of clause 8.05" shall mean that the following procedure will be observed:
(i)	any regular enployee for whan work is not available may displace the least senior employee within the same shift and department between locations, providing he/she has greater seniority;
(ii)	the employee displaced in No. 1 above may then displace the least senior employee within the same shift between locations, providing be/she bas greater seniority;
<«i) the employee displaced in N6. 2 above may then displace the least senior employee within either locatkn.
For this purpose, the expression "department", as used above, shall be defined by reference to the departmental groupings referred to in clause 12.09 (f) hereof.
A regular eqdqpmay displace a less senior employee in accordance with points (i), (ii) and (iii) above only if such employeecan satisfactorily fulfil the normal, requirements of the job occupied by the less senior employee.
TORONTO PLANT117
(c)	An employee having seniority standing in a department who is anticipated to be laid
cff for five (5) or less working days shall have the option of
(i)	displacing a temporary or probationary employee in any other department within the same location, or
(ii)	if there are no temporary or probationary employees to be displaced, of displacing the most junior employee in any other department in the same location and is capable of satisfactorily performing the work so made available to him/her. It is understood that junior employees shall be laid df in sufficient numbers to permit the exercising of this option and the resulting temporary transfer of more senior employees shall not Wmc effective until the commencement of the next regular day of work scheduled for the employee to be displaced. The transferred employee will receive the rate of pay of the job to which he/she is assigned, unless there is a more junior employee at the other location performingthe samejob from which he/she was laid cff. In such case the employee will retain his/her rate of pay for the period of time that the mare junior employee is performing the job.
(iii)	The mostjunior employ ee(s) to be laid cff in a location shall be entitled to duplare the mostjunior employees) in the other location, ifjunior to them.
(iv)	Delivery Myers
If a driver has been laid cff from his job under subsection (c), recail to a drivingjob will be subject to the following special rules, notwithstanding the provisions of article 8:05.
a)	Drivers who. because of their seniority, were unable to displace (bump) another employee, will be recalled to driving jcbs in that week, before other laid cff drivers who had displaced more junior employees in otherjobs on other shifts.
b)	If additional drivers are needed for recall, such recall shall take place from the remaining drivers in accordance with their seniority.
c)	If such recall is to a driver shift, it will be necessary for a recalled driver who is then working on a night shift to skip his next night shift so as to avoid a back-to-back drift with his first
driver shift.
d)	Drivers must accept the recall assignments to which ihair
TORONTO PLANT/18
seniority entitles them.
e)	While employed on the job to which he displaced, the employee will only be entided to unscheduled, end of shift overtime in the department where he is then working. However, he shall only be entitled to scheduled overtime in the department from which he was laid cff.
Employees other than Delivery Drivers
If a nondriver employee is laid off or displaced (bumped) under subsection (c), and has then displaced another employee on a different shift, the employee will not be recalled to his former shift that week, but will remain on that new shift for the balance of that week unless he is himself displaced by a mm senior employee on a subsequent layoff in the week.
a)	In such event, the Company may schedule temporary employees to fill any requirements on the employee's formerjob that week.
b)	While employed on the job to which he displaced, the employee will only be entitled to unscheduled, end of shift overtime in the departmentwhere he is then working, However, he shall only be entitled to scheduled overtime in the department from which he was laid df.
c)	Recall to his former shift will only take place at the commencement of a work week.
(d)	An employee exercising this option shall not acquire seniority in the department to which he/she is transferred, but shall retain his/her recall rights in his/her original department.
(e)	The Company shall maintain a list of employees (other than probationary or temporary employees) laid off by it within the prior twenty-four (24) months and such list shall show the seniority of such employees. A copy of die daily layoff lit will be provided to the local plant President or Chairperson of the Union.
When enployees are required for a vacancy of more than five (5) working days in a department, the lqc£f List willbe examined and. to the extent of the number of jobs available, the most senior employees listed therein will he recalled from transfer or layoff in accordance with the provisions of clause 8.05 hereof to the
TORONTO PLANT/19
vacancy.
(0 If, at the time of recall from a layoff an employee is not in the active service of the Company, a notice shall be sent to him/her by registered n»ni addressed to the last address which he/she shall have recorded with the Company. Such notice shall indicate thejob for which the individual is considered qualified, the proposed time and place of hiring (which shall not be less than seven (7) working days from the date of mailing of such notice by the Company) and shall state that if the individual desires to be rehired for such job, he/she shall notify the Company in writing wilhin five (5) working days of the mailing of such notice by the Company. A copy of each such notice shall be mailed to the Uhion. The individuals to whom such notices are sent and who report ready for work at the time and place of hiring as set out in such retinas. sha| if they are then so qualified to fill the jobs available, be rehired. The Company shall not be required, however, to rehire at any time any individual who shall have failed to notify the Company of his/her desire to be re hired or who shal have failed to report for rehiring in accordance with and at the time stated in any such notice sent to him/her. The Company shall be entitled to fill any jobs available on a temporary basis pending rehiring of those having preferential rights for rehiring as hereinbefore sei out On such rehiring there shall be deemed to have been no break in such employee's continuous service.
(g)	Notwithstanding anything herein contained, it is agreed that if a D.S.I.C., Transport Driver or facial Events Driver has not presented himself/herself for assignment of the day's work prior to the time his/her shift is scheduled to commence, he/she shal be considered to be unavailable for work on that daft and in such circumstances the layoff provisions set out above shal have no application. However, if work is available on a later drift which he/she is capable of performing satisfactorily rind which would not result in the displacement of any other enplqyee, that such work opportunity shall be assigned to him/her.
(h)	It is mutually agreed that an employee who would otherwise be on layoff may request that part or all of such layoff period be regarded as annual vacation tine and be paid accordingly. The Company will honour such requests, provided that the employee has sufficient unused vacation entitlement to accommodate the request.
8.10 The following is intended to fulfil the parties' obligation to make reasonable
accommodation for handicapped employees.
a)	In the event that an employee becomes physically handicapped rind is unable to
TORONTO PLANT/20
continue his/her own job, exception will be made in favour of such employee on the following basis.
b)	If a vacancy occurs on a job which an incapacitated employee can satisfactorily perform, he/she will be placed on suchjob without the necessity of a job posting.
c)	A satisfactory Doctor's certification of disability by the employee's Doctor must be submitted and. in addition, the employee will cooperate with the Company Doctor who shaU review the employe's suitability to perform the vacant job (or existing modified job). Where the employee's own doctor and the Company Doctor are unable to agree as to the capabilities of the employee, then the doctors shall appoint a third doctor for an independent assessment and that assessment shall prevail.
d)	An employee placed on ajob because of a disability will have that disability and/or job reviewed at least quarterly or as circumstances reasonably dictate.
e)	The Company will tenet all the circumstances with the thiol Committee before exercising this provision. All exceptions to the seniority provisions of the collective agreement must be mutually agreed to by the parties.
f)	A handicapped employee shall co-operate with the parties in order to facilitate his/her placement into an existingjob as outlined above.
8.11	Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Agreement which may to the oantraiy,it is mutually understood and agreed that the following arrangements and conditions shal apply to the positions of Sales Equipment Serviceperson and Sales Equipment Service Trainee:
1- Candidates for a posted job vacancy as a Sales Equipment Service Bairae shall;
(a)	Successfully cccpletein appropriate aptitude test priorto appointment; and
(b)	Be prepared to undertake and successfully ocnplebe a prescribed course of Company sponsored training; and
(c)	Hold a valid, appropriatedriver's licence.
2.	The sucaessfulcandidate for a posted vacancy in the position of Sales
Equqnrat Service Trainee will be appointed to that position on the condition that he/the undertake such training as the Company may require. Furthermore, he/she agrees io remain in the Trainee post him until becoming qualified as a Sales Equipment Serviceperson after having served as Trainee for (6) months.
TORONTO PLANT/21
3.	Failure to maintain a satisfactory degree of progress or failure to successfully complete the training program shall lead to the demotion of a Sales Equipment Service Trainee. In such event, the employee shall revert to his/her former position and, in so doing, may displace the employee who succeeded him/her in that position.
4.	The training program referred to herein currently consists of a correspondence course administered ty an independent organization (I.C.S.), various training sessions organized by the Company and/or equipment suppliers and on-the-job training. Trainees would be elevated to the position of Sales Equipment Serviceperson in order to fill vacancies when required, provided they have completed a minimum of 2000 hours of training and are deemed competent to perform the requirements of the position based on an evaluation of their ability.
Trainees will be elevated to a vacant position of Servicepenon in the order in which they entered the programme.
5.	On successful completion of the training program (including demonstration of the required knowledge, skills, etc.), a Sales Equipment Service Trainee shall be reclassified and paid as a Sales Equipment Servicepenon when there is a vacancy.
He/sbe must remain in the position of Shfe Equipment Servicemanfor a minimum period of one (1) year.
6.	In the event that the Company has no employee who can:
(a) meet the Esydnanentsfor a vacancy as a S&fc Equipment Service Trainee; or
<b> meet the requirements for a vacancy as a sales Equipment Serviceperson;
the Company may hire a new employee who docs possess the necessary qualificationsto satisfactorily fulfil the requirements of the vacant position,
8.12	If. during the life of this Collective Agreement, the Company plans to introduce any new form of formal aptitude or skills testing (as distinct from evaluation of performance on the
job) it will first review the new test format with the Union and receive the benefit of any input to such plan that the Union may have to offer.
8.13	Employees whose job is permanently discontinued sill be allowed to exercise their seniority to displace a more junior employee, pursuant to Article 8 of the collective agreement. They will then lose recall rights to the discontinued job after having been laid
TORONTO PLANT/22
is
cff from it for a period of six (6) months.
8.14	The parties agree that the Syrup and Bottling Departments at Thomcliffe require specific unique skills and in order to address the issue of maintaining the skill base which needs to be developed in these areas, notwithstanding any provision of the collective agreement, the parties hereby agree to the following for purposes of fulfilling temporary vacancies and vacancies caused by bumping:
1)	Employees will be allowed to apply to be trained in the functions of the Syrup and Bottling Departments. The thion will encourage senior employees to apply for ths training.
2)	Employees so chosen will be trained in these functions within six (6) months of applying.
3)	In the event that a regular employee is laid off within either of these departments, employ— who have received the requisite training, will be assigned to replace any laid off employee.
ARTICLE 9 - HOURS OF WORK - OVERTIME
9.0f For the purposes of this Agreement, the work wade shal commence at midnight Saturday-Sunday and all work performed in a shift or other similar work period (including ary extension thereof) shall be deemed to have been performed in the sane day in which that drift or other similar work period commenced.
9.02	For the purposes of this Agreement, time worked shall be calculated in uuts of six (6) minutes and periods of work of less (ban six (6) minutes per day shall be disregarded. An employee in the category of Highway Tractor-Trailer Driver shal be deemed to be at work during the time he/she is necessarily in control of such tractor-trailer and acting in the course of his/her employment, as wil as during any time that he/she is required by the Company to be present in (he Company's plant.
9.03	For tie purposes of this Agreement, the n o d work periods of all employees shal consist of five (5) eight (8) hour days or four (4) ten (10) hour days. Employees working four (4) ten (10) hour shifts will not be scheduled for Sunday work, except in cases if overtime. The Company does not guarantee, however, to provide work for any employee nor to maintain the work week or working hours presently in force,
9.04	Eveiy employeeshall be paid overtime to the rate of one and one-half times his hourly rate for all work performed by him and required by the Company in excess of his regular eight (8) hour or ten (10)hour shift, as the ease may be.
9.05	Every employee shall be paid at the rate of one and a»*a2f(l-l/2) times his/her hourly
TORONTO PLANT/23
rate for all work performed by him/her and required by the Company on a sixth shift in any week for those employees who are scheduled to work a five day week, and on a fifth shift in any week for those employees who are scheduled to work a four day week. Every employee shall he paid at the rate of two (2) times his/her hourly rate for all work performed by him/her and required by the Company on a seventh shift in any week for those employees who are scheduled to work a five day week, and on a sixth or seventh shift in any week for those employees who are scheduled to work a four day week. Notwithstanding the above, all work performed on Sunday, which is not a regularly scheduled shift, shall he paid at two (2) times his/her hourly rate.
9.06	Every employee who is regularly required to work on a Saturday and/or Sunday where such days are part of his regular work week shall, be paid a premium as shown below:
for work performed by him/her and required by the Company, unless he/she is entitled under the other provisions of ftds Article to be paid at the rate of one and one-half (1-1/2) cr two (2) times his/her hourly rate, as the case may be, for work so performed by him/her and required by the Company. For the purposes of this Agreement, such premiums shall not be considered as forming part of an employee's hourly rate.
9.07	(a)	Every employee, other than those employed as Shah maty Express, shall
be paid at the rate of two (2) times his/her hourly rate for all work performed by him/her and required by the Company on a day which is observed as a paid holiday under the provisions cf Article 11 hereof.
(b) A person employed as a Stationary Engineer shall be paid at the rate of two (2) tiroes his/her hourly rate for dL work performed by him/her and required
by the Company on a day on which one of the paid holidays named in Article H hereof actually falls (as opposed to the day on which it is observed by the Company).
9.08	Where it is anticipated that any employee will perform additional work required by the Company for a period cf one-half (1/2) hour cr more immediately following his/her normal wcric period of eight (8) hours, as the case m y be, be/she shal be granted a rest periodof fifteen (15) mixutes. with pay, before commencing such additional work.
9.09	Where any pwi nH of athtuiBl work referred to in clause 9,08 hereof will continue for
Saturday
Sunday
$ 2.00 $ 2.25
TORONTO PLANT/24
more than two (2) consecutive hours, the employee shall, after having worked for (2) hours, be given a break of one-half(l/2) hour, without pay. to enable Him/her to have a meal. If he/she shall not have had at least twenty-four (24) hours' notice that such additional work would be required, the Company shall provide the meal, up to a value of $7,50 plus tac, without charge to the employee. If such additional work continues for more than two (2) consecutive hours following resumption of work after the meal break, the employee shall be granted an additional rest period of fifteen (15) minutes, with pay.
9.10	Eveiy employee will be allowed one (1) paid rest period of fifteen (15) minutes during each one-half (1/2) shift. Rest periods will be arranged as near the mid-point of each one-half (1/2) shift as possible. Lunch breaks will be arranged as near the mid-pint of each shift as possible.
9.11	The Company will endeavour, in so far as the requirements and efficiency of operations will permit, to assign planned overtime woik (i.e. overtime scheduled at least 24 hours in advance, or on a Saturday and/or Sunday) on the following basis:
(i)	Such qqxrbmity will first be made available on a asnkri.ty basis to those regular employees who normally perform the work on which such overtime is required in that location, and
(ii)	In the event that the Company's needs cannot be entirely satisfied in that manner, the overtime opportunity will then be made availableon a seniority basis to other hourly rated employes in the same location who aze capable of satisfactorily performing the work required.
(hi) Opportunities for planned overtime will be posted in all departments.
It is further agreed that overtime will not normally be assigned to taiporary or probationary employees while regular employes in die appropriate department arc willing to perform such overtime and are capableof satisfactorily performing the work required.
In the case of unscheduled overtime, other than overtime to be performed as a continuation of work in process, the Conpany will endeavour, in so far as the requirements and efficiency of operations will permit, to assign overtime on the following basis:
(i) Such opportunity will first be made available on a sanctity basis to employees in the appropriate department who are available on the Company's premises at the time such overtime is to commence and who are
TORONTO PLANT/25
capable of satisfactorily performing the work required
(ii) In the event that the Company's needs cannot be entirely satisfied in that manner, the overtime opportunity will then be made available to the senior employees who are available on the Company's premises at the time such overtime is to commence and who are capable of satisfactorily performing the work required.
It is further agreed that overtime will not normally be assigned to temporary or probationary employees while regular employees available on the Company's premises at the time such overtime is to commence who are willing to perform such overtime and are capable of satisfactorily performing the woric required.
It is understood that to facilitate the distribution of overtime work, employees may be required to indicate their desire for such assignments by signing an "employees available for overtime" list and that repeated refusal of overtime work after having indicated availability for such assignments may result in that employee being excluded from further consideration under these provisions. Where an employeehas agreed to work scheduled overtime, as much notice as possible regarding the confirmation or cancellation of such overtime will be given to the employee. If sueb reasonable notioe has not been provided aid an employeecancels his willingness to woik such overtime, then the cancellation shall not be held against the employee for further considerations under this provision. It is further understood that in the event that all overtime requirements cannot be filled on a voluntary basis, such work may then be assigned (subject to applicable law) on a reverse-seniority basis to those employees in the appropriate department who are capable of satisfactorily performing the work required. It is further agreed that, for the purpose of assignment of overtime work, employees at 46 Overiea Blvd., at 81 Tumberry Ave. will be considered as though they were in two separate seniority groups. For the purpose of this clause, samrity shall be recognized by Job Classification, within departmental groupings (as per 12.09 (f) hereof). Other than for situations arising because of Acts of God or io cases of emergency, the Company will not offer opportunities for overtime work if doing so would result in an employee working a double shift without a complete shift off duty.
9 ;12 Where an employee has left the Company's Plant on oarpletion of his/her day's work and is then called by the Company and requested to return to work at a time before the commencement of his/her next schedule day's work, such request shal constitute a "callout". An enplcyee reporting for work on a "call-out" shall be entitled to be paid for work performed by him/her outside his/her scheduled working hours at the rate of one and one-
TORONTO PLANTA26
half (1-1/2) times his/her hourly rate or four (4) hours' work at his/her hourly rate, whichever is greater.
9.13 An employee who reports for work at hisher scheduled time, not having been previously notified to the contrary, shall be entitled to a minimum cf four (4) hours pay at the rate of pay to which he/she would have been entitled for the work he/she had been scheduled to perform on Dial day, but it is agreed that he/she shall perform any suitable work for this four (4) hour period, if so required. However, it shall remain the responsibility of an employee who has been absent from work to check with the Company to determine if work is available before returning, and failure to do so shall result in his/her being considered as unavailable for work on that shift. If an employee is absent fern work with approval on a Friday, it will be presumed that he/she will be available for work on the following Monday, unless be/she advises the Company to the contrary. Therefore, should such an employee be unable to report by Monday, he/she must notify the Company to that effect prior to his/her scheduled starting time.
9.14	The system of "fixed" shifts (as contrasted with "rotating" or "alternating" shifts) which is currently in effect will not be discontinued during the life of this Agreement without prior consultation with the Uhm; provided, however, (hat discussions with a view to possible modification of the system to accommodate any specific problems which arise may be initiated by either party. Should such discussions fail to produce agreement between the parties, then the Company may initiate changes only to the extent that they are necessary to satisfy the needs of the business and the requirements and efficiency of operations.
It is understood and agreed that this undertaking Wth respect to the method of staffing drifts (i.e. "fixed" vs. "rotating") does not in ary way limit the Company's right to establish or discontinue drifts per se, or to modify the starting or stopping the of drifts, in order to satisfy Ihe needs of the business and the requirements and efficiency of operations.
ARTICLE 10 - NIGHT SHIFT PREMIUM
10.01	Every hourly-rated employee shall be paid a night shift premium of $1.00 for work performed by him/her and required by the Company for "night hours" worked provided, however, that such premiums shall not be paid for any tine worked in respect of which overtime premium is payable. For purposes cf this Agreetnea, such night shift premium shall not be considered as forming part of an employee's hourly rate.
For employees whose dassifimtims are within wage brackets one (1) to eight (8), inclusive "night hours" shall be defined as all hours worked after four (4:00) p.m. h a day
TORONTO PLANT/27
and before seven-thirty (7:30) a.m, ii the following day. For all other employees who are within the delivery and sales areas in wage brackets one (1) to three Q. inclusive, in those areas, "night hours" shall be defined as all hours worked after four-thirty (4:30) p.m. in a day and before seven (7:00) a.m. in the following day.
For employees who work at 42 Overlea Blvd., "night hours" shall be defined as all hours worked after five (5:00) p.m, and before eight (8:00) a.m. in the following day.
ARTICLE 11 - HOLIDAY PAY
11.01	(a)	The expression "holiday" wherever used in this Agreement, shall man any one of
the following:
DAY OF NEW YEAR' S EVE NEW YEAR'S DAY DAY AFTER NEW YEAR' S DAY GOOD FRIDAY EASTER MONDAY VICTORIA DAY DOMINION DAY CIVIC HOLIDAY LABOUR DAY THANKSGIVING DAY DAY BEFORE CHRISTMAS CHRISTMAS DAY BOXING DAY
(b)	If, during the life of this Agreement, a holiday should be declared by government vhidi is not listed above and which is to be generally observed in the Province of Ontario, such holiday shall be dsexued and paid by the Company under the sane t-grmg and conditions as apply to the holidays which are listed above.
11.02	should any of the holidays mentiooed above fall on a Saturday or oo a Sunday, the regular working day thidi is closest thereto will normally be designated as the holiday. If. however, any question should arise as to the day in the year to be designated as any ow of the holidays mentioaed above, the Company shall decide the qtestim for purposes of this Agreement. If an employee (other than a witchperson or a Stationary Engineer) should be scheduled to have one of his/her regular days off on a day designated as a day to be observed as a bol iday, that employee shall be alloed another day off with pay in lieu of the holiday with pay aod, for purposes of tins Agreement, such lieu day will be considered as his/her "holiday".
TORONTO PLANT/28
11.03	Each employee who has completed his/her probationary period shall receive holiday pay for each such holiday, provided that he/she is at work on his/her last regular workday before the holiday and his/her first regular workday after the holiday, unless absence on one of the qualifying days was due to illness and substantiated by a doctors's certificate. An employee's holiday pay for each such holiday, shall be an amount equal to his/her regular hourly rate, multiplied by
•	eight (8) hours if scheduled for a 5 x 8 hour work week
•	ten (10) hours if scheduled for a 4 x 10 hour work week
If, in the week in which the holiday falls, an employee works in two (2) different wage classifications, he/she will be paid for the holiday at the wage rate in effect for the job classificationin which he/she normally works.
11.04	An employee who was absent on his/her last regular workday before and/or his/her first regular workday after the holiday will qualify for holiday pay (as set out in clause 11.03 above) if such absence:
(a)	is paid for under the provisions of clause 25.01 hereof (Bereavement Pay), or
(b)	is paid for under the provisions of clause 16.01 hereof (pay for Jury or Witness Duty), or
(C) has been approved by the Company, or
(d)	is due to a layoff which commenced not more than five (5) working days prior to the holiday or on the first work day after the holiday,
provided, however, that such holiday pay shall not be payable if the employee is eligible for full or partial payment for the day on which the holiday is observed under my other clause of this Agreement or from any plan or fund to which die Company contributes (e.g. the Company's E-xteoded Group Insurance Plan, Workers' Compensation. Unemployment Insurance. Government Pension Plan, etc.).
11.05	The Company vM grant employees unpaid leave upon request in recognition of religious holiday observed by employees, or they may elect to use a day of their vacation entitlement.
TORONTO PLANT/29
ARTICLE 12 - VACATION
12.01	Every employeewho, during the life of this Agrement, completes a year of continuous employment with the Company, will qualify for a vacation with pay, unless he/she has already been granted and has taken a vacation with pay in respect of that year of employment.
12.02	The length of vacation to which each employee will be entitled will be governed by the total length of his/her continuous service with the Company, and will be determined from the schedule in clause 12.04 below.
12.03	The amount of pay to which each employee will be entitled in respect of his/her vacation will be determined in accordance with clause 12.04 below. The earnings on which the calculation will be based shall be total earnings from the Company for the year of service in respect of which the vacation is granted including any premium pay (overtime, night shift, etc.) and pay for time not worked (vacation, observed holidays, sick pay, etc.).
12.04	Schedule of Vacation With Pay Entitlement During the Life of this Agrement
Length of Service
1 but less than 5 yrs. 3 but less than 10 yrs. 10 but less than20 yrs. 20 but less than 30 yrs.
After 30 years' service
Length of Vacation
2	weeks
3	weeks
4	weeks
5	weeks
6	weeks
% of Earnings Payable 4%
6%
8%
10%
12%
12.05	If an enployee's vacation pay calculated on the basis of his/her regular hourly rate, multiplied by forty (40) hours for each week of vacation to be taken would be greater than the amount to which he/she would be entitled under clause 12.04 above, then he/she will be paid the greater amount,provided, however, ttrt. if the employee has worked in more than one Wage Bracket during the preceding year, the calculationshall be made using the then current rate for the lowest such Wage Bracket; and provided ftirther that if. during the year of service in respect of which the vacation is granted, the employee has been absent firm work (in the aggregate) for more than twenty-five (25) working days due to layoff, or for more than ninety (90) working days for any other reason other than an absence on Workers' Compensation), then vacation pay shall be calculated only onihe percentage basis aet out in clause 12.04 above. If, during any year of service, an employee has been absent for more dun ninety (90) working days, (other than absence on Workers' Compensation) he/she may. if he/she so wishes (but only to the extent permitted by law) waive one or more weeks of his/her vacation entitlement for that year without reduction
TORONTO PLANT/30
in the percentage basis (only) vacation pay for which he/she qualifies.
12.06	For the purposes of this Article 12, a week shall mean a period of seven (7) consecutive days, including Saturdays, Sundays, and holidays falling within the period of vacation.
12.07	(a) Should one or more holidays named in clause 13.01 hereof fall within the period
of an employee's vacation he/she may, not later than 15 days before such vacation is to commence, request an additional day rff. with pay, in lieu of each such holiday. Such lieu days will be granted during the months of January, February, Fferch, April. October, or November only, but, subject thereto, the Company will endeavour to arrange for the day(s) cCE at a time suitable to the employee. If an employee does not so elect time offin lieu of the holiday, then his/her pay for the week of vacation containing such holiday (s) shall be increased by 20% for each such holiday.
(b) Provided that arrangementsare made at least a week in advance and approved by management, an employee may take up to five (5) days ofhridra: annual vacation entitlement in increments of eight (8) hours each during the months of January, February, March, April, October or November.
12.08	Eveiy employee will be paid, immediately prior to hishergoing cn vacation, the vacation pay to which he/she is entitled. If an employee should be granted his/her vacation prior to hisher anniversary date, then
(i)	if he/she has completed five (5Jor more years of service, hisher vacation pay wH be based on hisher regular straight-time rate of earning s, or
(ii)	if he/she has nctyet completed five (5) years of service, his/her pay forthat vacation will be based on earnings from hisher last anniversary date until a date which is four (4) weeks prior to the date on which hisher vacation is to commence.
(iii)	if an employee wishes to take only om week of vacation and has completed at least six (6) norths of service towards that year's vacation entitlement, he/she will receive one week's pay at his/her regular straight time rate of earnings, He/she will not then receive his/her second week of paid vacation until he/she completes the balance of that year cf service.
On completion of that year of service, he/she will receive a vacation pay adjustment based
TORONTO PLANT/31
on earnings for the portion of the year which was not included in the original vacation pay calculation.
12.09
(a)	Employees who are entitled to either two (2) or three (3) weeks of vacation may take up to two (2) weeks vacation during the period between the third Monday in May and the third Friday in September.
(b)	Employees who are entitled to four (4) or more weeks of vacation may take up to three (3) weeks vacation during the period between the third Monday in May and the third Friday in September.
(c)	The tentative list of summer vacations will be posted not later than April 15th of each year.
(d)	The vacation schedule will be finalized and a list of vacations posted on the Union bulletin board not later than May 15th of each year. Subject to the provisions of clause 12.09 (g) hereof, the schedule will not thereafter be changed without the mutual consent of the Company and the employees who would be affected.
(e)	Subject to the limitations of clauses 12.09 (a) and (b) and to the terns of clause (f) hereof, preference in regard to the available vacation date will be given in order of seniority.
(f)	For the purpose of determining the choice of vacation periods, seniority shall be applied by shift (day and night) and by the following department groupings (employees at460verlea Blvd., at 81 Turnberry Ave being considered to be in different "departments").'
•	Production Department (includes Production and Building Maintenance)
•	Warehouse Department
•	Equipment Service Department
•	Garage Department
•	Inter Plant Transfer Department
•	Distribution Department (includes Full Service Vending)
(g)	Notwithstanding the other provisions of this clause 12:09, it is agreed that when an employee transfers to another job and has not taken his/her vacation, he/she shall select their vacation based on Be scheduling of that new job and department.
Haeuet:, if such a transfer is a mandatory re-assignment by te Company to meet the needs of the business, every reasonable effort will be made to accommodate the
TORONTO PLANT/32
affected employee's original vacation preferences.
(Ji) It is agreed that this clause 12.09 shall not be construed as preventing the Company from granting vacation periods in excess of the mrtruri periods set out above, if it believes the particular circumstances are such that this may be done without adversely affecting the requirements and efficiency of operations.
12.10 Every employee whose employment with the Company is terminated during the life of this Agreement shall be entitled to a vacation pay allowance based on the length of hisher continuous employment with the Company and hisher total earnings during the period, if any, in respect of which he/she has not received a paid vacation. Such vacation allowances shall be computed as follows:
(a)	If the employee has not completed his/her first year of continuous employment, he/she will receive as vacation pay on termination the applicable percentage of hisher total earnings during the period of his/her employment, less any vacation pay already granted.
(b)	If the employee has completed one or more years of continuous employment and has taken all of the annual vacation to which he/she was entitled, in respect of higher last completed year of continuous employment, he/she will receive as vacation pay on termination the applicableperoentage of his/her total earnings from the last anniversary cf hisher employment until the date of termination, less any vacation pay already granted in respect of the uncompleted year of continuous employment between the last anniversary of employment and the date of termination.
(c)	If the employee has completed one or none years of continuous employment and has not taken all the annual vacation to which he/she was entitled in respect of hisher last completed year of continuous employment, he/she will receive as vacation pay an termination:
(i)	the applicable percentage of hisher total earnings during the last completed year of continuous employment, less any vacation pay already granted in respect of that year - phis -
(ii)	the applicable percentage of hisher trial, earnings from the last ari-
versary of hisher employment until the date of termination.
TORONTO PLANT/33
(d)	The applicable percentage of earnings as referred to in (a), (b), and (c) above will be:
Purine the Life of This Agreement
From	nb	% Applicable to the Period of Continuous Employment Shown at Left
Date of Commencement of continuous employment	4th anniversary	4%
4th anniversary	9th anniversary	6%
9th anniversary	19th anniversary	8%
19th anniversary	29th anniversary	10%
29th anniversary	and up	12%
12.11	Notwithstanding anything in this Article contained, an employee, granted a leave 01 absence under the provisions of clause 6.04 hereof in any year of his/her continuous employment, shal be granted and shall tale a pro-rated vacation with pay in respect of the portion of that year during which he/she was not cn such leave of absence.
12.12	The Company will require all employees to take their full vacation entitlement annual I y, effective immediately. Where an employee has been absent during the current vacation year for reasons of disability then such vacation tima owing shall be scheduled between the enployee and their supervisor. % December 31, 1999, all outstanding vacation from vacation years prior to 1998 must be used.
ARTICLE 13 - LONG SERVICE LEAVE
13.01	In recognition of and rffmtiahim for long association with the Company, each employee who during the life of this Agreement completes his/her 25th. 30th, 35th. 40th, or 45th year of continuous employment with the Company shal on completion of each such fifth year of employment, qualify fora special Long Service Leave. Each such Long Service Leave will be of two (2) weeks duration and the employee will be paid for each week of such absence an amount equal to his/her .gular hourly rate, multiplied by forty (40).
ARTICLE 14 - WORK CLOTHING
14.01	The Company will supply to each employee (other than a temporary employee) without cost as reasonably required by him/her during each year of this Agreement the items of Standard Work Clothing to the total amounts specified in the following schedule:
TORONTO PLANT/34
Category
Group t
D.S.I.C., Delivery Salesperson Sales Equipment Serviceperson, and Highway Tractor Trailer Drivers
Group 3
(A)	Bottling Machine Operators
(B)	Syrup, Quality Control Employees
■	11 Oxford Shirts
■	11 Pairs of Pleated pants
■	Weekly dry-cleaning
• (l)3inl jacket (as needed)
■	1 Cap or toque (as needed)
■	l Parka (as needed)
A
•	11 Oxford shirts
•	11 pairs pleated pants - Weekly dry-cleaning
-(1) 3inl jacket (as needed)
B
-	11 White shirts
-	11 White pants
•	Weekly dry-cleaning
•	(1) 3inl jacket (as needed)
Group 4
All employees working within the plant other Hhi temporary employees and employees covered by Group No. 2 or No. 3
-	11 Oxford shirts
• 11 Pairs of pleated pants -Weekly dry cleaning
-	(1) 3 ini jacket (as needed)
14.02	It is understood and agreed that an employee will receive only garments of the type specified for his/her particular Group (as described in clause 14.01 above) and that the quantities listed for each Group represeni the maximum number of garments which will be issued free-of-charge to any one employee during any year of the life of this Agreement. Every employee to whom Work Clothing is provided under this Article 14 is expected to wear during his/her working hours the Standard Work Clothing specified for his/her particular Group.
14.03	Following completion of the probationary period, new regular employees will be issued work clothingas soon as practical and such first issue will be a full year's entitlement, as set out above (in seco nd and subsequent years of employment, the employee will receive the regular semi-annual issue).
14,04	When a regular employee qualifies for issue of safety footwear he/she may purchase approved safety footwear from the supplier of his/her choice. On presentation to the Company of evidence of purchase of approved boots, the Company will reimburse such employee up to the maximum safety footwear allowance of 5100 per year.
Any cost In excess of the allowance shall be paid by the enplqyee. To meet the required safety standards, all such footwear must have steel toe caps and puncture imid-is soles (green patch) and any additional safety footwear purchased for at-work wear must meet the same specifications.
TORONTO PLANT/35
Probationary employees are required to purchase their own approved safety footwear and will receive the allowance on successful completion of their probationary period and appointment as a regular employee.
Temporary employees are required to provide their own approved safety footwear. However, if a temporary employee is accepted as a regular employee he/she will, on reclassification or on completion of his/her probationary period, whichever is later, be paid the safety footwear allowance.
ARTICLE 15 - BEREAVEMENT PAY
15.01	In the event of the death of a spouse, common-law spouse, same sex partner, child, father, mother, brother, sister, mother-in-law, or father-in-law of an employee, that employee will be allowed such time cff, with pay, as may be reasonably required in the circumstances. The extent of such leave shall be in the sole discretion of the Company, but the general standard will be three (3) days during the seven (7)days following the date of death on which the employee would have been scheduled to be at work were it not for the bereavement. In the event of the death of an employee's grandmother, grandfather, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, daughter-in-law. or son-in-law, that employee will be allowed one (I) day off, with pay, to attend the funeral. It is further agreed that these provisions shall be interpreted to include step-relatives and common-law spouses. It is also agreed that the bereavement leave as referred to herein may be increased by up to two (2) days' travel time, provided that such additional time off is necessary in the particular circumstances and that approval is obtained in advance of departure.
ARTICLE 16 - PAID TIME OFF
16.01	Jury Duty
An employee who is called for Jury Duty or who is subpoenaed to appear in Court as a witness wi receive for each day of necessary absence on that account the difference between his/her tegular earnings for that day and the amount of the fee received from the Court, provided that the employee furnishes the Company with a certificate of service and satisfactory evidence as to the amount of fee received,
16.02	Sick Pay
(a)	Every regular employee who has completed one or more years of oontinucus employment with the Company shall be entitled, in each year of the lie of this Agreement, to payment for up to six (6)days of absence due to Bonafide illness, (in the event that an employee commences work but becomes ill during the ocurse of the day and does not complete his/her scheduled shift, such part day of absence will, for the purpose of this clause 16.02, be combed as one-half (V4) day of absence due to Illness), Such payments shall be in an amount equal to 7 5 % of the
TORONTO PLANT/36
employee's regular rate of pay as of the first day of the contract year and any unused credits shall be paid to the employee within thirty (30) days of the end of that contract year.
(b)	The sick pay credit of a regular employee who has not completed a full year of continuous employment with the Company shall be computed on the basis of a one-half (%) day credit for each completed month of continuous employment.
(c)	No payment shall be made under this clause 16.02 for any day of absence in respect of which the employee is eligible for full or partial payment under any other clause of this Agreement or from any plan or fund to which the Company contributes (e.g. the Group Insurance Plan, Workers' Compensation, Unemployment Insurance, Government Pension Plan, etc.).
(d)	An employee who, at the conclusion of the contract year, has an unused sick pay credit of at least 5 days may, provided he/she has not been absent in that contract year for any reason other than:
(i)	Bonafide illness, (i.e. a claim for 1 (one) day of illness, leaving 5 days sick pay credit remaining, shall not disqualify an employee firm the provisions of this paragraph 16,02 (d)), or
(ii)	a paid absence referred to in paragraph (c) above, or
(iii)	an unpaid absence for bereavement, the birth of a son or daughter, or because of the closing of the plant by the Company due to an Act of God; receive in lieu of the cash payment referred to in paragraph 16,02 (a) above, a 5*day leave of absence at his/her regular rate of pay. Such leave of absence is to be taken outside the regular vacation period (as referred to in
12,09	(a) hereof) and at a tine to be mutually agreed upon by the employee concerned and the Company. Should such an employee have an unused sick pay credit of 6 days, then in addition to the 5-day leave of absence with pay for which he/she qualified under the above provision, he/she wi be pail for the remaining cne day at 75 % of the regular rate cf pay that was in effec! for him/her on the first day of the contract year. Provided that such leave of absence is arranged at least two (2) vedcs in advance of the date on which it is to commence, the employee vaL. receive pegmait for the leave prior to his/her departure.
TORONTO PLANT/37
(e)	An employee who is entitled to a 5-day paid leave of absence under clause 16.02 (d) may, if he/she so desires, elect to receive a cash payment at his/her regular rate of pay for the 5 or 6 days of unused sick pay credit, as applicable, in lieu of the paid leave of absence.
(f)	Notwithstanding the foregoing, an employee scheduled for a 4 x 10 hour work week may draw sick pay in units of ten (10) hours for each day of absence, up to the annual maximum of forty-eight (48) hours of paid absence due to illness.
(g)	The Company will reimburse an employee whom it requires to bring in a completed PGP Form up to $ 100 per contract year towards the actual Doctor's fee for same.
16.03	At Work Accidents
Where an employee is the victim of an accident while at work and so suffers an injury requiring professional medical attention, the Company agrees that he/she shall suffer no loss of earnings on the day of the accident by reason of his/her necessary absence fmn work to receive such treatment.
16.04	Any employee who as a result of their employment is required to appear in court as a result of an alleged violation of the Highway Traffic Act, shall be paid for up to one (1) day, provided that the employee provides proof that he was not guilty of the alleged violation.
ARTICLE 17 - WAGES
17.01	The Vtige Brackets and the hourly wage rate qqalicahleto each such Wage Bracket, as set out below, shall apply to other than tanpceary employees ad Engineering Department Machine Maintenance Person, ad shall be maintained during the life of this Agreement.
WAGE BRACKETS	EFFECTIVE DATE
August 3/98 August 1/99 August 1/2000
Wage Bracket 1
General Help	$20.64	$21.05	$21.47
Wage Bracket 2
Production Person	$20.74	$21.15	$21.57
TORONTO PLANT/38
Wage Bracket 3 Sales Equipment Service Trainees, Sales Equipment Delivery, Sales Equipment Customer Service Representative,
Shunter (with C3as A licence),
Equipment Maintenance Helpers,
Building & Parkins Lot Watchperson -* Car Drivers
Wage Bracket 4 Product Testing &
Reporting,
Shippers & Receivers
Wage Bracket 5 Sales Equipment Serviceperson, Equipment Maintenance Person, Utility Operator Stationary Engineers, 4th Class
$22.29	$22.74
$22.64	$23.09
$25.67	$26
$27.55	$28.10
Syrup Makers
Wage Bracket 6 Stationary Engineers 3rd Class
Wage Bracket 7** Journeyman Automotive Maintenance Person Journeyman ProArct.i on Equipment Maintenance Person
Wareftarhet-g**
Journeyman Electrician Parser
$20.90	$21.32
$21.40	$21,83
$21.75
$22.27
$23.19
$23.55
S26.70
$28.66
TORONTO PLANT/39
WAGE BRACKETS FOR DELIVERY AND SALES PERSONNEL
WAGE BRACKETS	EFFECTIVE DATE
August 3/98 August 1/99 August 1/2000
Wage Bracket 1
Delivery Salesperson	520,74	521.15	521.57
Wage Bracket 2 Delivery Salesperson-In-Charge, Highway
Tractor Trailer Driver	522.24	522.68	523.13
The Job Rate for a Lead Hand will be determined by adding a wage differential of eighty cents (5.80) per hour to the Job Rate shown above for the highest classification of work normally performed by the person regularly led by that Lead Hand.
**	Plus a skilled trades adjustment of 5.30 per hour.
17.02	It is understood and agreed that the Company, in hiring any new employee other than temporary employee, may pay him/her:
(a)	until the commencement of the first week followingtihe completion of his/her probationary period, at a rate three dollars fifty cents ($3.50) per hour less than the lob Rate of the job to which he/she is assigned, and
(b)	thereafter and until the commencement of the first week following the completion of his/her subsequent three (3) months of continuous employment, at a rate one dollar seventy-five cents ($1.75) per hour less than the lob Rate of the job to which he/she is assigned, and
(c)	thereafter at the Job Rate of the job to which he/she is assigned.
17.03	It is understood aof agreed that the rate for temporary employees (as defined in clause2,03 hereof), uE be four dollars fifty-five cents ($4.55) per hour less than the Job Rate of the job to which he/she is assigned.
17.04	where an employee is temporarily transferred to a job which carries a higher rate of pay than the job firm which he/she was transferred and provided that he/she remains in such
TORONTO PLANT/40
higher rated job for a period of more than one (1) consecutive hour, he/she shall be paid at the hi^ier rate for all time worked in such higher rated job.
17.05	Where an employee is temporarily transferred to a job which carries a lower rate of pay than the job from which he/she was transferred and while work is available for him/her in the job from which he/she was transferred, he/she shall continue to be paid at the higher rate. Where, however, there is no work available for him/her in thejob from which he/she mbs transferred, he/she shall be paid at the rate of thejob to which he/she was transferred.
17.06	In all cases of permanent transfers, the transferred employee will be paid the rate of thejob to which he/she is transferred.
ARTICLE 18 - TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE
18.01	(a) If, during the life of tins Agreement, the Company wishes to make a technological change in its operations which would have the effect of abolishing existingjob classifications or creating newjob classifications^ which would result in the layoff of any regular employee, the Company agrees that, before introducing such technological change, it will meet with the Union to discuss the matter and to attempt to resolve the problems created by such technological change, as well as to attempt to lessen the impact of such technological change cn the employees affected.
(b)	If, as a result of a technological change in the Company ’ s operations, an employee is assigned to a job having a lower rate of pay than the rate of pay he/she formerly received, he/she shalcontinue to be paid at his/her former rate of pay until thejob rate for his/her new classificationequals his/her former rate.
(c)	If a regular employee should be displaced firm his/her job by reason of a technological change m tie Company's operations, and provided the employee has the necessary qualifications to pafrimi the wade available after a reasonable training period, the Company shal arrange, where feasible, for him/her to receive
TORONTO PLANT/41
r
such training.
(d)	In the event of a plant closing or sale, any employee who then has seniority standing shall:
(i)	if he/she has more than five (5) years seniority, have the right to displace an employee with less than five (5) years seniority at any other plant at which the Union holds bargaining rights, or
(ii)	if he/she has lass than five (5) years seniority, be given preferential hiring rights (for a period of eighteen (18) months following such closing) at any other plant at which the Union holds bargaining rights;
provided, however, that such employee can satisfactorily fulfil the neural requirements of the job which is so made available to him/her. Once so relocated, such employee shall carry full seniority with him/her into the new plant.
(e)	(i) Should any major operation currently being performed by the bargaining unit be transferred from Thoracfiffe or Ironside (whether in connection with a full facility closure or not) to another Company locaticn within a fifty (SO) mile radius of Harnbo. then a number of seniority employees, equal to the number who performed the moved work at Tborocliffe or Ironside immediately prior to the move, will, as an alternative to ay seniority rights they may have within the bargaining unit, have the opportunity to tons fer to the new locatim, provided the employees can satisfactorily fulfil the notmal requirements of any job available at the new locatim.
(ii)	Should more enpLcyees wish to transfer hereunder than the number permitted
under (i), the selection shall be made by CAW seniority.
(iii)	Employees moving under (i) shall maintain their Company service for pension and vacation entitlement purposes,
(iv)	Employs moving under (i) shall be deemed to have completed their probationary period at the new location. Iheir seniority at the new location will be determined in accordance with the provisions which may be in effect at that
TORONTO PLANT/42
i
facility. Where, under those seniority provisions, transferring CAW employees have the same seniority date, their relative seniority standing at the new location will be determined by reference to relative seniority standing in the CAW bargaining unit prior to the move.
(v)	If the location to which the work is moved is a non-union facility, and if the employees transferred under this provision represent a majority of employees at the new location, the Union will be recognized as representing all employees in a like bargaining unit at such location and the terms and conditions of this Agreement will be deemed to apply to them for the balance of its duration.
(vi)	If, as a result of the movement of work in (i), a seniority employee does not
immediately have the opportunity for regular full time employment at either the new location or Thomcliffe or Ironside, such employee will be entitled to elect an enhanced severance provision. The enhanced severance shall be a lump sum of $20,000 for employees with five or fewer years of service; $30,000, for employees with 6 to 10 years of service and $40,000, for employees vith more than 10 years of service. The above severance provisions are inclusive of any entitlements under the Employment Standards Act. Employees electing to receive this severance provision will immediately forfeit any and all seniority, benefit and/or employment rights at any and all Company facilities.	.
(vii)	The Company will, in addition to the above, offer a voluntary early retirement
incentive Package under the pension plan. Pursuant to this Package, a specified
mmtoer of employees in the bargaining unit who have attained a minimum age 50
or whose combined age plus years of service equals 75 or more at the time of the
movement of work will have the opportunity to retire and receive an enhanced
supplementary benefit. The number of enployees who wi have this opportunity
will not exceed the difference between theoumber cfnew full time openings at the
nor location *nd the number of employees who performed the moved work at
Thorncliffe or Ironside immediately prior to the move. Preference for electing the
Package will be determined by seniority. The pension benefit level will be an
amount equal to the pension paid in the Early Retirement Incentive Package TORONTO PLANT/43
introduced after the Tumbeny closure in January 1998, Pension enhancementsare subject to the limitations of the Income Ifex Act for a registered Pension Plan. For employees who retire under this Package, these provisions shall replace those contained in paragraphs (d) and (e) of the Employees Retirement Plan Letter of Agreement.
(0	If the Company intends to close the Thomcliffe or Ironside facility during the life
of this Agreement, it wD. provide the Union with ninety (90)days notice thereof to permit the parties to meet and discuss the closure and ways to minimize the effect of same on members of the bargaining unit.
ARTICLE 19 - SAFFTY
19.01	The Company mH. make all reasonable provisions for the health and safety of the employes during working hours and will furnish adequate facilities and equipment for that purpose. The Company and the Union mutually agree that employees should be encouraged to co-operate in the maintenance of healthy and safe working <mdLticns,in the proper use of protective clothing and equipment, and in the observance of all safety rules.
19.02	To further the above-mentioned objectives, it is mutually agreed that Joint Health and Safety Committees wH be maintained and shall be comprised as follows:
C.C.B.
Thomcliffe Plant	•	3 members appointed by the tiiicn and 3 members qyrinted
ty the Compans
Tumberry Plant	■	3 members app.	Union and 3 members appointed
by the Company
Joint Health and Safety Committees shall receive training appropriate for their responsibilities tod shall operate in accordance with written guidelines adopted by each Committee,
The Health and Safety Committees from the Tumberry and Tborncliffe plants viH have a bi-monthiy joint meeting.
TORONTO PLANT/44
19:03 The Union members of the J.H.S.C. will receive forty (40) hours of Health and Safety training per year. This training will be as provided in the past by the Workers Health and Safety Centre. This training will be paid for by the Company.
19:04 The Union members of the J.H.S.C, will receive two hours of time off in order to prepare for J.H.S.C, meetings. In addition to the above, the Committee members shall be afforded the necessary time off as required and agreed to by the Committee in order to attend to duties such as audits, air sampling, etc.
ARTICLE 20 - WORK OF BARGAINING UNIT
20.01	Operations Supervisors will not normally perform work customarily performed by employees in the bargaining unit, except:
(a)	as a result of urgent or emergency conditions,
(b)	for the purposes of demonstration or training.
(c)	to occasionally relieve an employee for a short period, or
(d)	when a regular employee is not available due to being late for woric or absent from work and a suitable replacement is not available.
20.02	The Company agrees that if the contracting out of any work normally performed by employees in the bargaining unit would result in the layoff of any regular employee, the Company will meet with the union to discuss ways and means cf reducing the impact of such change on the employee^) to be affected.
The Company also agrees that it wi not during the life of this Agreement, extend its present practices with respect to the contracting out of work, provided that the Company has the opfadlity (i.e. fee facilities, equipment and/or required workforce skills) to perform such work within the bargaining unit Without serious impairment to the normal efficiency of operations.
ARTICLE 21 - HEALTH INSURANCE PLANS
21.01 It is agreed that, subject to any future legislation affecting suchnattms, the Company’s Bdbaxbd Group Insurance 0an, will be emtirued in force during the life of this
TORONTO PLANT/45
Agreement:
(a) In addition, it is agreed that the following improvements will be introduced:
(i)	life Insurance Coverage
•	Effective from August 1, 1998 life insurance will be increased to
$36,000. Effective August 1, 1999 it will be increased to $38,000. Effective August 1, 2000 it will be increased to $40,000.
<ii) Supplemental Medical Plan
•	The Vision Care benefit maximum reimbursement is $150.00 per insured family member in each 24 month period.
•	The Prescribed Drug benefit to provide for reimbursement of eligible expenses is 100% of eligible expenses.
•	The terms “spouse”, “dependants” and “family” as used within the SupplementalMrlirri. Plan includessame sex partner and dependants of a same sex relationship. Conditions for coverage will be the same as for common-law relationships.
(in) Dental Care Plan
Routine tBulumt expenses will be subject to 100% reimbursement and Major Treatment expenses will be subject to 80% reimbursement.
•	The Dental Care Plan provides that the present calendar year
maximum Rouuue/Major Treatment benefit per individual is $1500, and that the maxtnun OrthodonticTreatroent benefit is $3,000 per child.
•	The terms “spouse”, “dependants” and "family” as used within the Dental Care Elen includes same sex partner and dependants of a same
sex relationship. Ccnditicns for coverage will be the same as for common-law relationships.
TORONTO PLANT/46
r
(iv)	Weekly Income Benefit
• The schedule of Weekly Income Benefits is. as follows:
Class 33 - $35,000. but less than $36,000. - $470.
Class 34 - $36,000. and up	- $500.
(b)	A new Long Team Disability Plan has been introduced effective from, January 6,1992. Details of this plan are set out in a Letter of Agreement attached hereto.
(c)	The Company will continue to pay the full premium for Life, Major Medical. Weekly Income Benefit and Dental Care coverages. L.T.D. premiums will be shared as per the Letter of Agreement referred to in (b) above.
21.02	It is further agreed that, in consideration of improvements contained in this and prior Agreements, and subject to the provisions of the Unemployment Insurance Act, the Company shall stain in full any "Premium Reduction" which is or may become available from the Unemployment Insurance Commission upon their continued acceptance of the Company's plan of Weekly Income Benefits as a "qualifyingregisteredplan".
ARTICLE 22 - EMD EDUCATION LEAVE
22,01 The Company agrees to pay into a special fund three cents ($.03) per hour per employee for all compensated hours for the purpose of providing paid education leave. Said paid education leave mD. be forthe purpose of upgrading the employee's dolls in all aspects of Hada Uhicn functions. Such monies to be paid on a quarterly basis into a trust fund established by the CAW ■ Canada, and sent by the Company to the CAW Paid Education Leave Program, Box 897, Prat Elgin, Ontario, NOH 2C0.
22.02	The Company further agrees that, provided approval is sought and detained at least thirty (30) dayii in advance of such absence, iiBniat.s of the bargaining unit, selected by the Union to attend such courses will be granted a leave of absence without pay for twenty (20) days of class tme, plus travel tine where necessary. Said leave of absence to be
intermittent over a twelve (12) month period firm the first day of leave.
TORONTO PLANT/47
22.03 Employees on Paid Education Leave will continue to accrue seniority and benefits during
such leave.
ARTICLE 23 - SOCIAL JUSTICE FUND
23:01 The Company will contributeone cent ($,01) per hour per employee to the C.A.W. Social Justice Fund. Such monies to be paid quarterly.
ARTICLE 24 • TOOL ALLOWANCE
24.01	Journeyman Automotive Maintenance Person, Journeyman Production Equipment Maintenance Person, Sales Equipment Service Technician and Journeyman Electrician Persons shall supply and maintain their own tool kit and shall receive a tool allowance which shall be paid annually. The amount of such payment shall be $20.00 for each month classified as a journeyman person during the preceding contract year. (For purposes of clarification. Sales Equipment Service Technicians shall be supplied their initial tool kit by the Company upon the commencement of their employment as a Technician).
ARTICLE 25 - DURATION OF AGREEMENT
25.01	This Agreement shal be effective from the date of execution and dell tagnriiHbaat July 31. 2001.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the Parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be executed by their respective duly authorized representatives at the City of Toronto, in the Province of Ontario.__________day of_________________, 1998.
APPENDIX "A"
Any matter referred to arbitration as provided for in Article 7 hereof shall be heard by a single arbitrator who shall he chosen having regard to his/her impartiality, his/her qualifications in the interpretation of agreements and his/her familiarity with industrial matters.
An earnest effort will be made by both the Company and the Union to reach mutual agreement on the person to be requested to serve as arbitrator but if such agreement cannot be reached within fifteen (15) working days of the date of notice of arbitration, then the parties shall make joint application to the Ontario Labour-Management Arbitration Commission for a list of arbitrators and shall proceed with the selection of an arbitrator under the provisions of the Ontario Labour-Management Arbitration Commission Act.
The Company and the Union shall each be responsible for one-half (1/2) of the expenses of and fees payable to the arbitrator.
The rules of arbitration set out below shall govern the conduct of any arbitration proceedings hereunder.
RULES CP ARBITRATION
1.	Arbitration shall be held at the City ofToronto, in the Province of Ontario.
2.	In any arbitration:
(i)	in the case of an Individual Grievance, the written representations of the employee made at Sbq? 3 and the written decision therein of the Company representative shall be presented to the arbitrator and the award of the arbitrator shall be confined to determining the issue therein set out.
(ii)	in the case of a Collective Grievance or a Company/Uoion Grievance,the submission in writing by one party and the written reply of the other party shall be presented to the arbitrator and the award of the arbitrator shall be
TORONTO FLANT149
confined to determining the issue therein set out.
3.	The findings of the arbitrator as to the tacts and as to the interpretation, application, administration or alleged violation of the provisions of this Agreement shall be conclusive and binding upon the Company, the Union and the employees. In any arbitration hereunder the presumption shall be until the contrary shall have been proven that the provisions of this Agreement have been complied with.
4.	The arbitrator shall not be authorizedto alter, modify or amend any part of this Agreement or to substitutehis/her opinion or judgement for that of the Company; provided, however, that this restriction is ii no way intended to limit the scope of actim provided to the arbitrator under Section 37(8) of the Ontario Labour Relations Act with respect to grievances concerning discharge or discipline.
5.	Each party to an arbitration shall be entitled, through counsel or otherwise, to present evidence, to cross-examinethe witnesses of the other party and to present oral arguments. Briefs of argument may be presented by each party and each party shall be entitled to reply to the brief of argument presented by the other.
6.	Witness fees and allowances shall be paid by the party calling the witness,
7.	No costs of any arbitration shall be awarded to or against either party.
TORONTO PLANT/50
LETTER OF AGREEMENT
Between:
National Automobile Aerospace, Transportation and General Workers ttiicn of Canada
(CAW - Canada)
-and*
Coca-Cola Bottling Ltd. (Toronto)
Re:	Employees' Retjaanent Plan
It is agreed that the Employees' Retirement Plan, as it may be amended from the-to-the, will be continued in force for employees of the Company who are covered by the Collective Bargaining Agreement, so long as it shall remain in force, unless in the meantime, the parties hereto should mutually agree, in writing, to enter into some alternative arrangements for the provision of pension benefits to some or all of the employees covered by this Agreement.
Notwithstanding the foregoing,the parties have agreed in principleto the establishment of a nan-contributory, flat benefit pension arrangement for the C, A, W. bargaining unit at Toronto. The effective date of such new pension benefit arrangements will be dependant on mutual agreement of the parties to specific final written plan language, but subject thereto, the target date for implementation of the change shall be January 1, 1992.
It is agreed that such new pension arrangements will incorporate the following features:
(a)	Employees coveted by this Agreement who presently participate in the Employees' Retirement Elaiwill cease accruing the present 'final average earnings" pension benefit as of the effective date of the new pension arrangements. However, the value of the benefit accrued up to the date of this change will continue to be calculated using the "final average earnings* benefit formula applied to earnings in the yetis immediately preceding termination of service, retirement or death, whichever first occurs,
(b)	The non-contributory pension benefit will apply to all employees on attainment of two years seniority and will be determined on the basis of a pension payment of
TORONTO PLANT/51
$15. per north for each year of serviceafterthe effective date of the arrangements.
Increases to this non-contributory premium benefit shall be, as follows:
(i)	For employees who retire on or after August 3, 1998 the basic benefit is increased from $30.00 to $33.00 per month for each year of C.A.W. credited service after January 1, 1992.
(ii)	For employees who retire on or after August 1, 1999, the basic benefit is increased to $35.CO per month for each year of C.A.W. credited service after January 1, 1992.
(iii)	For employees who retire on or after August 1,2000 the basic benefit is increased to $37.00 per month for each year of C.A.W. credited service after January 1, 1992.
(c)	The benefit referred to in (b) above shall be in the form of a life annuity, with a guarantee of payments for a minimum of 10 years. However, if an employee is married at the time retirement inxne commences, then a benefit in the same amount shall be payable in the form of a 60 % Joint and Survivor incase, unless the member and his/her spouse opt for other arrangements in accordance with the provisions of the Ontario Pension BateELts Act The requirement for a common law spouse shalbe one (1) year.
(d)	In the case of retirasEntat or after age 60, a supplementary benefit of $15. per mcnth, for each year of service after the effective date of the new arrangements, rtiallbe payable from the retirement date util attainment of age 65.
Increases to this supplementary benefit shall be, as follows:
(i) For employees who retire at or after age 60, but before we 65 on or after August3, 1998, ircreasethesupplementaiybenefitfromWfrWto $19.00 per mcnth. for each year of C.A.W, credited service after January
1.	1992.
TORONTO FLANT/S2
(ii) Ebr employees who retire at or after age 60, but before age 65 on or after August 1,1999 increase the supplementary benefit from $19.00 to $20.00 per month, for each year of C.A.W. credited service after January 1, 1992.
(iii)	For employees who retire at or after age 60, but before age 65 on or after August 1, 2000 increasethe supplementary benefit from $20.00 to $21.00 per month, for each year of C.A.W, credited service after January 1, 1992.
(e)	The basic benefit referred to in paragraph (b) above and the supplemental benefit referred to in paragraph (d) above will be unreduced if oommenoed on or after age 62. There shall be a 3 % per annum reduction for each year of retirement prior to age 62.
(0 The term "spouse" as used in the Pension Plan includes same sex partner. Conditions for coverage wH be the same as for common-law relationships. This change is
y
conditional on this amendment being acceptable to the appropriate regulatory authorities.
FOR THE UNION
FOR THE COMPANY

TORONTO PLANT/53
Letter of Agreement
Between:
tetianaL Automobile, Aerospace, Transportationand General Workers Union
of Canada (CAW-Canada)
- and -
Coca-Cola Bottling Ltd. (Toronto)
Re:	New Employee Orientation
The Company agrees to acquaint new employees with the fact that a Collective Agreement is in effect and with the conditions of employment set out in the articles dealing with the Union Security and Dues Check-Off. A new employee shall be advised of the name and location of b is/he r Union representative. Whenever the Union representative is employed in the same work area as the new employee, the employee's irradiate supervisor will introduce him/her to his/her Union representative who will provide the employee with a copy of the Collective Agreement. The Company agrees that a Union representative will be given an qpartmity to interview each new permanent employee within regular working hours, without loss cf pay. for fifteen (15) minutes sometime during the thirty (30) days preceding the completion of the employee's probationaiy period for the purpose of acquainting the new employee with the benefits and duties of Union membership and the employee's responsibilities and obligations to the Company and the Uhion.
FOR THE UNION	FOR THE COMPANY
TORONTO PLANT/54
Letter of Agreement
Between:
National Automobile, Aerospace, Ttransportation and General Workers Union
cc Canada (CAW-Canada)
- and -
Coca-Cola Bottling Ltd. (Toronto)
It is mutually agreed by the parties hereto that the Company's current package of disability benefits shall be modified and that a co-ordinated long Term Disability Plan shall be introduced, all as set out herein:
1.	Effective firm January 6, 1992, the present Weekly Income Benefit coverage will be amended to reduce the maximum benefit period from 78 weeks to 26 weeks. The Company will pay 100% of the revised W, I. B, premiums. An employee who is absent on W, I, B, at January 6, 1992 will continue to be covered by the existing 78 week maximum until he/sbe returns to work, at which point the new program will hereme effective for him/her. For purposes of calculating the benefit, pursuant to this plan, the "rate of earned inocme" shall be the employee's basic rate of pay calculated on an anualiaed basis.
2.	Effective from January 6, 1992, the Company will introduce for all regular full-time employees, a Long Term Disability Insurance program which will include the following features:
(a)	The benefit will be based on 66-2/3% of regular straight-time earnings in effectat the time disability commences, up to a maximum monthly benefit of $2400.
(b)	Benefits vM be payable monthly, after a qualifying W.l.B. period of 26 weeks of continuous absence due to "disability”, and will continue as long as "total disability" lasts, up to age 65.
(c)	"Disability" will mean an incapacity which prevents the employee fimperforming his/her regular ditLes during the qualifying W,I,B, period of 26 weeks and the followingL.T.D. benefit period of 104 weeks. If still disabled after a combined benefit period of 130 weeks, disability is then considered total if it prevents the employee from performing any work for which be/she is reasonably qualified by ediaatior,training or experience.
(d)	Benefits payable under the L.T.D. plan will be reduced by the amount of disability TORONTO PLANT/55
income benefit, if any, payable by the Cana da/Quebec Pension Plan (primary benefit only) or by Workers' Compensation. The policy shall include such limitations and restrictions as are usually found in L.T.D. policies.
(e)	Participation in the L.T.D, plan will be mandatory for all eligible employees on completion of the probationary period. Coverage is effective on the date the employee becomes eligible, provided he/she is at work on such date. If the employee is absent from work on the date of eligibility. L.T.D. coveragewill not hftgmB effective until he/she returns to active employment.
(f)	Pre-existing conditions are not covered unless the employee, after becoming insured, has been actively working for 3 consecutive months with no absence related to the pre-existing condition.
(g)	The Company shall pay 100% of the L.T.D. premium.
3- During the 130 week benefit period referred to in point 2(c) above, the Company will continue in force the Life, Supplemental Medical and Dental Care Benefits referred to in Article 21.01 of the Collective Agreement.
FOR THE UNION	FOR THE COMPANY
TORONTO PLANT/56
LETTER OF INTENT
Between:
National Automobile, Aerospace, Transportation and General Workers Union
of Canada (CAW-Canada)
• and •
Coca-Cola Bottling Ltd, (Toronto)
Re: Substance Abuse
Substance Abuse is recognized to be a serious medical and social problem that can affect employees. The Company and the Union have a strong interest in encouragingearly treatment and assisting employees towards full rehabilitation.
Accordingly, following execution of the 1991 renewal Collective Agreement, a representativeof the Company and a representative of the Union will be appointed by the respective parties to establish and administer a Substance Abuse Program. Such program will basically consist of methods to communicate to employees the availability of confidential referral services and the provision of referrals to appropriatecounselling services or treatment and rehabilitation facilities. The Company will provide normal group insurance benefits to employees who are undergoing a medically prescribed course of treatments. Union Substance Abuse Representatives will be provided such time cffas is reasonably required for the administration of the program.
The operation of this program wi be subject to review after its first year of operation, or earlier at the request of eitherparty.
FOR THE UNION	FOR THE COMPANY
TORONTO PLANT/57
LE'I'IER OF INTENT
Between:
National Automobile, Aerospace, Transportation and General Workers Union
or Canada (CAW-Canada)
- and -
Coca-Cola Bottling Ltd. (Toronto)
Re: 'RartO relfrt'-Rates of Pay
Employees who, as at August 1, 1998, have their rate of pay "red-circled", shall continue to be paid at this rate of pay until the current Collective Agreement expires on July 31, 2001. The names of such seven (7) employees have been provided to the Union on July 29, 1998.
FOR THE UNION
FOR THE COMPANY
TORONTO PLANT/58
LETTER OF INTENT
Between:
National Automobile, Aerospace, Transportation and General Workers Union
cf Canada (CAW-Canada)
- and -
Coca-Cola Bottling Ltd. (Toronto)
Re: Full-Service Vending
The Parties agree, during the life c£ this Collective Agreement, to discuss die development and implementation, if mutually agreed, of an incentive based compensation arrangement for Full Service Vending employees.
FOR THE UNION
FOR THE COMPANY
TORONTO FLANT/59
-------------- —_	- NO CHANGES AND IS
REFERABLE TO THE	mi i srrrrvir	i PERIOD
Between:
LETTER OF INTENT
National Automobile, Aerospace, Transportation and General Workers Union of Canada (CAW-Canada)
- and -
Coca-Cola Bottling Ltd. (Toronto)
Re: Voluntary Early Retirement Incentive Program
In view of the current and anticipated excess number of full time employees in the bargaining unit, the parties recognize both the Company's need to reduce its full time complement over the life of this agreement and the desirability of pennittirej senior employees to choose to voluntarily retire in order to reduce the need for layoffs of more junior employees.
Consistent with the above, the Company will, during this agreement, implement a Voluntary Early Retirement IrKetrtive Program. In order to maximize its effect and impact, such Program will commence at that point during the new collective agreement when the Company decides that it is most consistent with its operational and business requirements. The programme shall commence when there is a reduction in the workforce of one or more permanent full-time employee, but in no event later than January 1, 1996, The program will remain in effect for a minimum period of ten (10) months, once implemented.
Under tins Program, employees who. at the time they voluntarily choose to retire, have attained a minimum age 55 and whose combined age plus serviceequals 80 or more will receive a supplementary benefit for each year of ERP plus CAW credited service. The benefit level hE equate to the amount of the supplementary benefit (ie. $ 16 or $17 per month) in effect at the trie of layoff. The benefit will be payable firm the retirement date until attainment of age 65. Jh
TORONTO PLANT/60
addition, in such cases, both the basic benefit and the supplementary benefit will be unreduced. For employees who volunteer to retire under this Program, these provisions shall replace those contained in paragraphs (d) and (e) of the Pension Letter of Agreement.
TORONTO PLANT/61
k/
THIS LETTER HAS BEEN RE-PRINTED WITH NO CHANGES AND IS
REFERABLE TO THE 1995-1998 COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT PERIOD
Between:
LETTER OF INTENT
National Automobile, Aerospace, Transpartaticnand General Workers Union of Canada (CAW-Canada)
- and -
Coca-Cola Battling Ltd. (Toronto)
Re: Direct Deliveries
Municipality of Metropolitan Toronto
During the negotiations leading to the renewal of the collective agreement, the parties discussed the recent transfer from the Thorncliffe and Tumberry locations to another location of the Company of certain deliveries to customers located in the Municipality of Metropolitan Toronto. The parties are desirous of resolving this particular issue during these negotiations on a without prejudice basis. This will confirm the understanding reached with respect to this matter as follows:
1)	The deliveries referred to above will be returned to the bargaining unit for the duration of the collective agreement which expires on July 31, 1998.
2)	The grievance fiiot in connection therewith will be withdrawn from arbitration and will not be resubmitted by the Union or any employee.
3)	Nothing herein will affect either parties pre-existing richts under the collective agreement, nor shall tins letter or the settlement of the grievance be constructed in any way as an intapcetaticn of the relevant language of the collective agreement or either party's rights thereunder.
TORONTO PLANT/62
LETTER OF INTENT
Between:
National Automobile, Aerospace, Transportation and General Workers
Chian of Canada (CAW-Canada)
• and -
Coca-Cola Bottling Ltd, (Toronto)
Re: Tsi hour Shifts
During the negotiatiais leading to the renewal of the 1995 collectiveagreement, discussions took place regarding the scheduling of employees who would now be working four (4) ten hour (10)drifts in a week. It is our intention to maintain a relatively constant scheduling arrangement such that employees can reasonably expect to know what days of the week they will be working. The Company does not foresee based on our best projections at this time, that a majority of employ ees would be regularly scheduled for Saturdays.
The Company will schedule the workweek firm January 1 to April 30 and firm May 1 to rtenantw 31. Changes within either period, may be made by mutual agreement between the Union and Company.
It is understood that the four ben hour work schedule will be implemented cm a gradual basis commencing no earlier than October, in consultation with the Orion.
FOR THE UNION	FOR THE COMPANY
TORONTO PLANT/63
LETTER OF INTENT
Between:
National Automobile, Aerospace, Transportation and General Workers
Union of Canada (CAW-Canada)
• and -
Coca-Cola Bottling Ltd. (Toronto)
Re: Payroll Advances
The Company agrees to amend its current practice with respect to payroll advances by increasing such advances from $400 to $500.
FOR THE UNION
FOR THE COMPANY

TORONTO FLANT/W
THIS LETTER HAS BEEN REPRINTED WITH NO CHANGES AND IS REFERABLE TO THE 1995-1998 COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT PERIOD
COMPANY ISSUED LETTER
July 31, 1995
Ms. Dawn Cartwright National Representative CAW Canada 205 Placer Court North York, Willowdale M2H 3H9
Dear Ms. Cartwright:
During the negotiations leading to the renewal of the collective agrement, many discussions took place ocnoemingthe current and fiiture work planned forthe Tumberry and Thomcliffe locations. As a result of these discussions, the Company indicated the need for improved efficiency and flexibility and that the future viability of the operations are directly dependent on their ability to retain, attract and maintain business based on overall competitiveness both internally and externally. In addition, the Union indicated the need to enhance job security and provide for an improved standard of living for its members.
The parties have agreed during these negotiations to improving these apaatias by a number of changes and commitments designed to address both their concerns.
In the context of these discussions, commitments and customer needs and in consideration of the overall settlement, die Company will commit to:
1.	Placing increased cross docking volume at the Thomcliffe and/or TLnrbeny locations by returning the Barrie modified cross dock work and
2.	Increasingthe production of PET products on the Thomcliffe production line including the manufacture of 2 lit® Spriteand C.F, Diet Coke.
3.	Increasing the I.P.T, volume through increased deliveriesand pick-upof products by adding the equivalent of one man
Your truly,
ManufacturingOperadons bfragar
TORONTO PLANT/65
THIS LETTER HAS BEEN RE-PRINTED WITH NO CHANGES AND IS REFERABLE TO THE 1995*1998 COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT PERIOD
COMPANY ISSUED LETTER
July 31, 1995
M$, Dawn Cartwright National Representatives CAW Canada 205 Placer Court North York, Willowdale M2H3H9
Dear Ms, Cartwright;
During negotiations leading to the renewal cf our collective agreement many discussions took place concerning plans for our Thomcliffe production facility. This will arfhmthe information we shared regarding projects, capita] investment and other related plans for that facility during the next three years.
AS you know, over the past sixteen months, the Company has made a considerable investment in the plant. This was in excess of $1.5 million.
Under current plans, an estimated further $1,000,000 over the next three year period, is being allocated toward the upgrading of our facility. The plans at present specifically include the following:
•	modernizing the facility
•	upgrading manufacturing standards
•	process improvements
•	training Io improve the worker knowledge base
Further, we advised that we are pursuing ISO 9002 certification for manufacturing excellence. Such certification relates cnly to the facility for which it is sought.
Also during the negotiations, our major marketing and sales initiatives were discussed, many of which drive volume on products presently being manufactured at the Thomcliffe production facility and warehouse/distributed from both the Turaberry and Thomcliffe locations. Our current initiates include:
•	80 % of our 1996 marketing dollars are being allocated to drive products produced at the Thomcliffe Plant,
•	growingthe business by 10% in each of the next thres years,
•	increased continued growth in cold drink sales.
•	continued growth of the 2 litre segment
• expand full service vendlngs penetration, (1200 to a planned 2000 units by 1998). TORONTO PLANT/66
•	600 ml/1 litre segment development marketing programmes,
•	expanded non-carbonated beverage share-of-market at the expense of Quaker (Snapple & Gatorade) and Pepsi,
•	maintain our investment in cold drink equipment
•	recapture key volume prestige business; eg. Canada'sWonderland
Yours Truly,
Manufacturing Operations Manager
TORONTO PIANT167
LETTER OF INTENT
Between:
National Automobile, Aerospace, Transportation and General Workers Union of Canada
(CAW-Canada)
•and*
Coca-Cola Bottling Ltd. (Toronto)
RE: Paid Time Off - Union Executive Committee
This will confirm the current arrangements with respect to paid time off to two (2) employees of the Union Executive Committee, to attend to Union business including meetings with die company.
The Company will provide up to 16 hours off in total without loss of pay in one(l) day increments to attend to such business.
FOR THE UNICN	FOR THE COMPANY
TORONTO PLANT/68
LETTER OF INTENT
Between:
National Automobile, Aerospace, Transportation and General Workers Union of Canada
(CAVY-Canada)
-and-
Coca-ColaBottling Ltd. (Toronto)
RE: Load Checking
The Company agrees that this function properly falls within the shipper/receiver classification under the appropriate provisions of the Collective Agreement. The Union recognizes that Management may reserve the right to check for errors in the shipper/receiver work, for overages and shortages. For purposes of clarification the present practice with respect to these procedures shall continue during the life of the Collective Agreement.
FOR THE UNION
/law\	_
FOR THE COMPANY


TORONTO PLANT/69
LETTER OF INTENT
Between:
National Automobile, Aerospace, Transportation and General Workers Union of Canada
(CAW-Canada)
-and'
Coca-Cola Bottling Ltd. (Toronto)
RE; Production Department - Machine Operators
For purposes of clarification, certain Production Persons in the Production Department will be required, as part of their regular duties, to complete Daily Lubrications and P, M. inspections on their machines, as well as do 1 i e changeovers. In order to perform these duties the Company will supply the necessary tools.
The Company agrees that there vdlL be no layoffs in the Mechanics classification as a result of these functions being performed by Production Persons. The implementation of the above changes will result in a commitment by the Company to train Mechanics in some functions which would otherwisebe performed by contractors or non-bargaining unit members.
For all time spent in the performance of this work, the Production Person shall receive an hourly premium calculated on the basis cf the difference between Wage Bracket five (5) and Wage Bracket two (2).
FOR THE UNION
/MAUL

FOR THE COMPANY
TORONTO PLANT/70
UJ1TKK OF INTENT
Between:
Naticnal Automobile, Aerospace, Transportation and General Workers Union of Canada
(CAW-Canada)
•and-
Coca-Cola Bottling Ltd. (Toronto)
RE: Preferred Work - Thorncllffe Distribution Department
This will confirm the understanding reached during the 1998 negotiations with regard to preferred work in the Thorncliffe Distribution Department.
The Parties have agreed that, in order to accommodate employees who want Back-End work, a list shall be posted and qualified 'Side Pocket" employees can sign up for the work. When such work haoanes available, due to the absence of a regular employee or where additional routes are ragiimi, it will be offered to qualified "Side Pocket" employees by seniority who have previously signed up for the work. The 'Side Pocket" vacancies shall then be replaced ty junior DSIC's who are not regularly assigned to a route, or by temporary employees.
For purpose of determining a list of spares for I.P.T., the Company shall post a list, for each shift, sufficientto meet the needs of the business. These postings shall be for a period of six months. Employees accepting such positions shall not refuse assignmentto I.P.T. when there is no junior spare available.
For purpose of determininga list of spares for F.S.V., the Company shall post a list, sufficient to meet the needs of the business. "Side Pocket" employees shall sign up for this work if they so wish. These postings shall be for a period of six months. Employees accepting such positions shall not refuse assignment to F.S. V. when there is no junior spare available. Routes made vacant by the movement of employees into F.S.V. shall be filled by spares.
FOR THE UNION	FOR THE COMPANY
TORONTO PLANT/7I
LETTER OF INTENT
Between:
National Automobile, Aerospace, Tranqpartatimand General Workers Uhion of Canada
(CAW-Canada)
-and-
Coca-Cola Bottling Ltd. (Toronto)
RE: Occupational tfealih and Safety Act and Regulations
During negotiations the Union raised with the Company it s concern regarding possible future changes to the Occupational Health and Safety Act and regulations.
The Parties understand that should changes to the legislation and/or the Qitario Ministry cf Labour's support for the subject legislation change to render inoperative the current rights of employees with respect to unsafe work, a mechanism will have to be determined to maintain the practical application of these rights.
Consequently, upon such time as the Union or the Company has a reasonable concern that such legislation could be passed which so affects the employees right to refuse unsafe work, the Union and the Company shall meet within 10 days' notice of a written request to meet. The Parties will make a good faith effort to arrive at a fair and workable solution to the problem in a forthright and expeditious manner.
It is agreed that any changes to the Regulations would also be reviewed by the Parties in order to assess the impact on employee health and safety. The Parties agree that the Statutory provisions in effect on the date of this agreement with respect to the employees right to refuse unsafe work would be considered a mininun standard.
FOR THE UNION

UtL.
FOR THE COMPANY
TORONTO FLANT/72
LETTER OF INTENT
Between:
National Automobile, Aerospace, Transportation and General Workers Onion of Canada
(CAW-Canada)
■and-
Coca-Cola Bottling Ltd, (Toronto)
RE: Four Day HnnrW-rtc Periods (Original Letter of Agreement Dated February 25.1997)
The Parties recognize that if they implement a four day ten hour work period ii Distribution. Warehousing and Full Service Vending, there are several inequities which may be created. Whereas the Parties are desirous of resolving such inequities, notwithstanding any of the provisions of the Collective Agreement which may be to the contrary, they hereby agree to the following:
1)	Employees who ocnmenoethe week on a four day ten hour shift or a five day eight hour shift, shall remain on their respective4x10 or 5x8 schedules for the duration of the week (i.e. bumps may happen frnn 4x10 to 5x8 and vice versa subject to seniority and qualifications).
2)	In the event a seniority employee is unable to obtain 40 hours of work in a week becauseof a layoff to the street, he/she will be offered any available shift in that week provided they can satisfactorily fulfil the normal requirements of the job, up to and including Saturday at straight tme plus applicable premiums. The intent of this provision is to ensure that senior employees are scheduled for forty hours in a week ahead of junior employees.
3)	Every effort will be made to provide employees who may he subject to a layoff during the week and who are exercising their seniority as per points 1 and 2 above, with consecutjve days of work in a week. If this point 3 proves to be unworkable, the Parties will meet and make every effort to resolve any concerns with respect to employees working on consecutive days.
4)	Employees will have the option of displacing temporary or less senior employees in accordance with points 2 and 3 above. Employees who wish to do so. must sign a list at the time of their layoff, which will be posted weekly in each location.
5)	It is further ag reed that no provision of the Collective Agreement is to he amended or interpreted by the terms of tins letter of agreement, except as provided herein.
6)	The Parties agree that they will review the terms of this letter should there arise any inequities which have not been contemplated. Both Parties commit that in this event they shall make every effort to modify the terms of this letter of agreement, but that this agreement shall survive until the end of the current collective Agreement if there is no agreement to make any modification hereof.
7)	Article 7 of the Collective Agreement will apply to this letter.
TORONTO PLANT/73
FOR THE COMPANY
XL-

TORONTO PL ANT/74
LETTER CF INTENT
Between:
National Automobile, Aerospace, Transportation and General Workers Union of Canada
(CAW-Canada)
•and*
Coca-Cola Bottling Ltd. (Toronto)
RE; Previous Commitments Renewed
a)	From a Letter Dated August 9. 1988:
The Company agrees that on those occasions when the Company uses an ‘employees available for overtime" list as provided in the Collective Agreement, that only those employees who have signed the list as indicated would be considered for the appropriate scheduled overtime opportunities. Should other employees, who are possibly more senior to those who have already signed the indicated list, make themselves available for overtime opportunities subsequent to the list being removed from its posted position, they will not be considered as available until after those employees who have signed the list have been accommodated.
b)	From a Letter Dated July 19. 1996:
We are prepared to allow qualified bargaining unit members who are in the warehouse the opportunity to go out on the trucks on a day-to-day basis, prior to the use of temporary workers. This will be done pursuant to the temporary posting provisions of the Collective Agreement.
c)	From a Letter of Settlement Dated November 22. 1996:
For the remaining term of the Collective Agreement, the Company agrees that it will compensate employees who work consecutivedouble shifts on a Saturday at the rate of double time for all hours worked on the second shift,
d)	From a Letter of Settlement Dated November 22, 1996:
The Company will endeavourto provide as much notice as possible of any change in start times for employees. It is recognized that there could be any number of reasons which would necessitate changing start times. Any changes in start tine would be for valid business reascns and would not be done in an indiscriminate fashion.
e)	From a Letter Dated March 1. 1989:
When it is determined that there will be multiple loads assigned to any given back-end loader route, and it is anticipated that this will result in overtime, then the Company will endeavourto assign this route to the most senior individual.
0 All agreements relating to individual employeediscipline which are active pursuant to either Article 3:0 J (b) of the Collective Agreement or, the specific terms contained in such individual agreements.
TORONTO PLANT175
FDR THE UNION
FOR THE COMPANY

TORONTO PLANT/76
LLTI'Ek OF INTENT
Between:
National ftjhrmrhilp, Aerospace, Transportation and General Workers Union of Canada (CAW-Canada)
-and-
Coca-Cola Bottling Ltd. (Toronto)
RE; Memorandum of Settlement January 16.1998
The Parties agree that the following Memorandun survives the expiry of the 1995-1998 Collective Agreement, where applicable.
TORONTO PLANT/77
MEMORANDUM OF SETTLEMENT!
BETWEEN:
COCA-COLA BOTTLING LTD. (Toronto) hereinafterreferredto as the 'Company
AND:
NATIONALAUTOMOBILE, AEROSPACE, TRANSPORTATION AND GENERAL WORKERS UNION OF CANADA (CAW-CANADA) hereinafterreferredto as the 'Union'
WHEREAS The Company has announced the closure of its Tumbenry facility and the movement of certain work from itsTumberry and Thomcllffe locations to other locations within the Company and the resultant impact on employees in connectiontherewith;
AND WHEREAS The Company has supplied to its employees various
documents dealingwith availableoptions including but, not limited to, Voluntary Severance, Voluntary enhanced Early Retirement Pensions and, etc.
AND WHEREAS The provisionscontained herein, as agreed to between the Parties, amend the aforementioned documents
AND WHEREAS the partiesaredesiroustf resolving all outstanding issues relatingto these Business changes;
THEREFORE the partiesagree as follows:
1.	TO AMEND the CollectiveAgreement between the Parties to provide that Article 8,04 (b), with regard to broken service and Article 8.09 (e) with regard to seniority, be amended so as to allow all seniority employees, as at January 13,1998, a period of thirty-six (36) months recall eligibility.
2,	To Provide that employeeswho transferto a new work location may return to work at a C.C.B, CAW. facility to a regularfull-time vacancy in accordance with the CollectiveAgreement This option shall be available to an employeefor a period of twelve (12) months extending from February 23,1998. Such vacancy shall be filled in accordance with his CAW. seniority and, upon returning to the bargaining unit, his seniority, at date of leaving shall be restored. This opportunity shall be made available on e one-time basis only and the employee will not be permittedto transfer back afterthat option to return has been elected. All service with Coca-Cola Bottlingwill be recognizedfor purposes of vacations and pensions
3.	TO AMEND the Voluntary Severance provision to providea lump sum
severance amount, as follows: Maximum25 employees-
Max $500,000 total
-5yrs of seniority or less $20,000
-10 yrs of seniority or less $30,000
-20 yrs of seniority or less $40,000
The above amounts are inclusive of Statutory Requirements. The Company agrees to work with the Union m such away as to legally minimizethe impact on employees’ El,
4,	THE PARTIES AGREE to a process and sequenceforthe assignment of employees to jobs, shifts and locations as a result of the announced business changes, as follows:
GENERAL CONDITIONS
(a)	All job vacancies in all locationsandall jobs in CAW. facilities on all shifts, (including newly created garage mechanic vacancies) shall be displayed simultaneously by the Company on February 17,1998. Voluntary Severance options shall be included on this display.
(b)	Notwithstanding any provisionsof the Collective Agreementwhich may be in conflict, it is agreed no grievances shall be broughtforward as a result of this process
(c)	Employees shall fill jobs in accordance with their seniority standing subject to the CollectiveAgreement.
JOB SELECTIONS
(a)	Commencing Feb 17,1998, employeeswill be called, in order (f seniority, intoa meetingwith a Company official where they will make their choice by seniority from the options available to them and the positionswhich are available. A union representativewill be present at such meetings. Subject to paragraph(e) below, such selection is final and binding an the employee. A Company and a union representativewill sign a form indicating the selection made. Absentee employeeswill be canvassed by telephone by the parties.
(b)	Using the above process, all such selections will be completed and pasted no laterthan February21,1998 and alljob movement will be effectiveon February23,1998.
(c)	Employeeswho select to remain at C.A.W. facilities will havenofintho-rj^te to the Early Retirementor Voluntary Severance packages as proposed in this document
(d)	Employeeswho select the Voluntary Severance packages will lose all seniority and have no further rights ss employees.
(e)	Employeeswho select a transfer under Article 18,01 mayreturntotheCAW. 385 bargaining unit on a 'one-time' option at any time before January 31, 1999 to a regularfull-time vacancy. If an employee chooses such return option, he will be creditedwith his unbroken CAW seniority and will cease to have any rights to employment at any other Company fadll ty, None of the above options will be recreated for any other employee as a consequenceof any employee retumingto The CAW. bargaining unit underthis provision.
(f)	The Company shall make availableto the employees a summary of working conditions at external locations as well as the opportunity to consult with a management representativeat that external locations
THE PARTIESAGREE to replace the previously issuedtimetablewith the following:
The 'Job Fair' shall be adjourned sine die February17,1998-4(a), herein, shallcommence February21,1998 - 4(a), herein, is completed February23,1998 alljob assignments commence
CONDITIONS OF EMPLOYMENTAT EXTERNAL LOCATIONS
The Companywill recognizefull Coca-Cola servicefor purposes of vacation
entitlements and pension
Any employeewho has acquired seniority status ina CAW. locationshall be deemed to have completed their probationary period at newwork location. The Companywill provide a continuity of benefit coveragefor employees transferringto a newwork location.
Employeeswho are laid off from a CAW. facility within the 3 month period commencing February23,1998 shall havebenefitcoveragefora 3 month period.
The Companywill explore r/?e opportunities for Seniority recognitionat external locationsto which employees transfer, in accordance with the provisions cf the CollectiveAgreements at those locations.
WITH REGARDTOTHE CURRENT THORNCLIFFE SITE, the Company is preparedto providethe following letter
“This letter confirms The Company's intent to invest and grow at the Thomdiffe production and distributionfadlities. As outlined in our January 13,1998 announcement, Thomdiffe will bea production centre and homefor our Toronto side pocket, (Induding F.S.V.), distribution business, as well, the direct delivery for our large food seevioe customers. The Company will invest$4.7 millionto improve the fadlity and production equipment starting with the small bottle P.E.T. line.
In additionto the fadlity upgrades at Thomdiffe, wewillendourrelationshipwith Rentway. We will purchase back the trucks,then beginto replace the entire side-pocket fleet over the next 12 months. We will be pladng 8,400 pieces of
cooling equipment across the MetroToronto sales centres in 1993, Finally, we will be investing-, in the first year, approximately $300,000 to establish a leased Cooler Service Departmentseparate from the current company’s facilities.’
‘Our volume growth targets and the investment described above are indictorsofour commitment to the business at the C. A. W, facilities.’
8.	THE COMPANY AGREES that the new coolershop leased location, which will occur, as a direct result of the Tumberry closure, will be a C.A.W. certified facility.
9.	The COMPANY AGREES to extend the Education Allowance to employees who are laid off as a result of these business changes at CAW. facilities and those who re-iocate to a new work assignmentfor purposes of qualifying for a job at the location, provided that the qualifying period is consistentwith the Company’s needs to fill that job vacancy. The Conditions with respectto this allowance shall be the same as those providedto a retiree of the enhanced early retirement program. The education allowance is $3,000.
10.	THE COMPANY ADVISES that its current relationshipwith the Rentway Company will be terminated and garage services will bere-lmplemenfed at Thomdiffe. The number of garagejobs shall be communicatedto the Union prior to February 17,1998.
11 .The Company agrees to provide employment levels at CAW. facilities in the warehousingand distributiondepartmentsfor the period January 19,1998 to February20,1998 which are consistentwith average employment levels in the period January 19, 1997 to February 20,1997. The purpose of this provision is to maintain work for those affected by this decision, The Company will provide requiredemployment levels to the Union by January 20, 1998.
12.	In consideration of the above, the Union hereby agrees that there will be no grievances, applications and legal actions filed in connection with the Tumberry closure and/or the movement of certain work from the Thomdiffe and Tumberry locations to other locations of the Company, the layoffs of employees and the application of the collective agreement relating to these events.
13,	This agreementis subject to the grievance and arbitration provisionsof the CollectiveAgreement
The Parties agree to unanimouslyrecommend the above terms and conditions as complete and final settlement of all outstanding Issues.
DATED AT TORONTO, ONTARIO THIS 16th DAY OF JANUARY, 1998.
FOR THE UNION
LETTER OF INTENT
Between:
Natural Automobile, Aerospace, Transportation and General Workers Union of Canada (CAW-Canada)
•and-
Coca-Cola Bottling Ltd. (Toronto)
The Company agrees there will be no discipline, grievances or reprisals taken against employees or the Union on account of strike or picketing activity up to the time of signing of the Memorandum of Settlement. The Union agrees there will be no grievances tiled on account of any work performed by non-bargainingunit employees in advance of the strike or as a consequence of the non-availability of bargaining unit employees to perform such work at the time and any such grievances which may already have been filed will be withdrawn.
FOR THE UNION
FOR THE COMPANY

TORONTO PLANT/78