COLLECTIVE-AGREEMENT
BETWEEN:
EASTCAN BEVERAGES LIMITED - and -
EASTCAN BOTTLING LTD.
and
SOFT DRINK WORKERS JOINT LOCAL EXECUTIVE BOARD OF ONTARIO, OF THE UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION, LOCAL 387-
Effective:	28 Hay, 1990
Expiry:	31 January, 1993
COLLECTIVE AGREEMEN T
BETWEEN:
EASTCAN BEVERAGES LIMITED; and EASTCAN BOTTLING LTD.,
(hereinafter referred to as "the Company") - and -
SOFT DRINK WORKERS JOINT LOCAL EXECUTIVE BOARD OF ONTARIO, OF 'THE UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS. INTERNATIONAL UNION, LOCAL 387,
(hereinafter referred to as "the Union")
Article 1	- PURPOSE:
1.01	It is the intent and purpose of the parties to set forth herein their agreement with respect to rates of pay, hours of work, and conditions of employment to be observed by the Company, the Union, and the employees covered by this Agreement; to provide procedures for equitable adjustment of grievances; to assure the development of efficiency for the profitable operation of the Company's business; and to promote harmonious relations between the Company, its employees and the Union.
2.01	The Company recognizes the Union as the exclusive collective bargoin-ing agent for hours, wages, and other conditions of employment for all regular full-time production, warehouse, fleet, vending, checkers, receivers/shippers , sign shop, sales, delivery, and tractor trailer shuttle driver employees at its Ottawa, Ontario plant located at 869 Belfast Road, excluding tel-sell, supervisors, clerical or office employees, professionals, quality control technicians, security guards, syrup room employees, transport drivers, persons employed for not more than three (3) days per week, temporary employees engaged to perform work during the period from April 15th to September 15th and from December 1st to December 31st in any years, salaried employees, and all other employees not covered by this Agree-men t.
This Recognition clause shall be construed to apply to employees and not to work. It shall not be construed to mean that any employee or classification of employee has an exclusive right to any work. No regular full-time employees shall lose their employment because of the Company contracting out the work being done by the employees.
Article 3	- MANAGEMENT RIGHTS:
3-01	The Company retains the sole right to manage the affairs of the busi-
ness and to direct the working force. The following enumeration of management rights shall not be, deemed to exclude other rights of management not specifically set forth. The Company, therefore, retains all rights not otherwise specifically restricted by this Agreement.
Such functions of management include, but are not 1 mi ted to:	the
right to determine all methods of selling, marketing, producing warehousing, distributing, merchandising, and advertising of products including pricing of products; the right to introduce or test new or improved sales, distribut on, production
2
Article 3 (Cont'd.)
methods; the right to establish, assign, alter, change, adjust, discontinue and combine sales territories and routes; the right to add new products or cancel existing products and to adjust territories and routes due to the addition or subtraction of such products; the right to determine the location and number of production and distribution facilities; the right to determine the sales areas the Company will service and the customers in such areas where it will serve; the right to allocate and assign work or transfer work out of the bargaining unit; the right to allocate and assign work or transfer work from one department to another; the right-to establish standards and to maintain the efficiency of employees; the right to introduce new or improved production methods, or facilities; the right to reduce the workforce; the right to determine the number of employees required to perform a job or function; the right to assign employees to a job or shift and to rearrange jobs and functions to eliminate slack and idle time; the right to determine the amount of overtime and the assignment of overtime to the employees; the right to plan and schedule production; the right to schedule shifts, work hours and work week; the right to abolish past work customs and practices; the right to hire, fire, transfer, promote or demote employees; the right to lay off, terminate or otherwise relieve employees from duty; the right to make and enforce rules for the maintenance of discipline; the right to suspend, discharge or otherwise discipline employees for cause and to take such other measures as the Company may determine to be necessary to the orderly, efficient or economical operation of its business; the right to subcontract work; the right bo establish and administer tests; the right to require medical examinations; the right to change and adjust scheduling of territories and routes; the right to change and eliminate geographical sectors; the right to curtail, sell or lease the business or any part thereof; the right to discontinue or merge departments; the right to adjust, reduce or increase machine speeds; the right to introduce new jobs and the rates to be paid with respect to them during the contract term; the right to determine the processes and materials to be employed; the right to discontinue processes or operations or to discontinue their performance by employees of the Company; the right to determine the number of cases and the number of customers 'that Delivery Merchandiser is to deliver and call on, on a daily basis with or without a helper; the right to assign vehicles; the right to deduct for settlement sheet shortages from any employee who has been assigned responsibilities of a route and who has signed an issue slip accepting responsibility of the merchandiesj the right to deduct from any employee who has accepted a not-sufffcient fund cheque where i t has been specified that no cheques should be accepted from an account; the right to deduct from any employee who has extended credit where it has been specified that no credit should be given to an account; the right to establish House Accounts or dock pickup accounts-direct warehouse accounts which will not be the responsibility of the presalesmen and for which he will not receive commissions; the right to establish House Accounts or dock pickup accounts-direct warehouse accounts which will be delivered by employees selected by the Company or agents of the purchaser; the right to have delivery personnel sort empty bottles returned to plant; , the right to cut off all employee benefit plans in the event of a strike; the right to determine financial and administrative policies, including general accounting procedures and customer relations; the right to determine qualifications required by an employee to perform any particular job.
The listing of specific rights in this Agreement is not intended to be, nor shall be restrictive of or a waiver of any of the rights of management not listed and specifically surrendered herein whether or not such rights have been exercised by the Company in the past.
- 3 "
Article 3 (Cont'd.)
The Company agrees that these functions will be exercised in a manner not inconsistent with any article or section of this Agreement.
3.02	Any outside employee	who becomes	incapacitated	but	who	is	still
capable of performing work in the inside unit shall be given the opportunity, provided there is an opening and provided he is qualified to do the work which is available.
Article k - UNION SECURITY AND CHECK-OFF:
^.01	Union Membership:
Every employee covered	by	this	Agreement	shall,	as	a	condition of
his ontinued employment, become and remain a member of the Union in good standing Employees hired after the effective date of this Agreement shall, as a cond tion of employment, join the Union at the end of their probationary period.
k.Q2	Check-Off:
The Company agrees to deduct weekly from the earnings of regular and probationary employees, regular Union dues and to remit the amount so deducted monthly to the designated officer of the Union.
In order that the Company have definite instructions as to what amount is to be deducted for monthly dues, it is agreed that the Union shall promptly notify the Company, in writing, over the signature of its designated Officer, the amount of the deduction to be made by the Company for regular monthly dues, and the Company shall have the right to continue to rely on such written notification from the Union signed with the same formality.
. 03	Indemnification:
The Union agrees to hold the Company harmless against all claims, demands and expenses should any person, at any time, contend or claim the Company has acted wrongfully in making such dues deductions.
Article 5	- UNION REPRESENTATIVES:
5.01	Access to Plant:
The Representative of the Union may visit the plant in accordance with the Company's procedure to conduct Union business with the Company and/or to assist In adjusting grievances. The Representative will be accompanied by the Designated Company Representative while on the premises. This privilege shall be so exercised that no time is lost' unnecessarily to the Company or the employees. .
5.02	Shop Stewards:
The Company recognizes the right of the Union to designate a reasonable number of Shop Stewards, not to exceed twelve (12) Stewards to handle such Union business as may from time to time be delegated to them by the Union, which shall not interfere with any employee's regular work, unless prior approval has been gran^ ted by the Company. The Company will not recognize an employee as a Steward unless
- k -
Article > (Cont'd.)
it has received such notification from the Union. Shop Stewards have no authority to take strike action or any other action interrupting the Company's business or the efficiency of the operation in violation of this Agreement or any action in violation of the law. The Company, in so recognizing such limitations shall have the authority to impose proper discipline, including discharge without recovery, to such Shop Steward, in the event the Shop Steward has taken unauthorized strike action, slow-down, sit-down, picketing, boycott, concerted activity, refusal to work or work stoppage in violation of this Agreement. A Shop Steward shall be an employee of the Company and must have completed one (1) year-of employment unless mutually agreed between the Company and the Union. Grievance meetings will ordinarily be held before or after the working hours of the aggrieved employee. However, when the Company and the Union agree to schedule a grievance meeting during the working hours of a Union Representative authorized to process the grievance or the aggrieved employee, or a witness whose presence is mutually agreed to be necessary, such employees will be paid for the actual time lost.
The Company shall not be required to meet with more than one ()) Steward at any one time except as provided for in the Agreement - i.e. committees.
Shop Stewards shall not deal with a grievance during working hours without the prior permission of their Supervisor and in return for this, shall be paid their regular rate for time lost during such investigation.
5>03	Union Activities:
There shall be no solicitation of membership in the Union or any ocher Union activity during employees' working hours unless the activity is specifically authorized by this Agreement.
5.Qi)	Pay for Union Representatives When Authorized To Be Absent:
A Union Representative who requests to be absent from work to attend Union conventions or seminars, must present the request in writing to the Company at least five (5) working days in advance of the meeting, and the Company will give due consideration to the request. The Union will reimburse the Company for the wages and fringes to be paid to the Union Representative while absent from work.
5•05	Union Negotiating Committee:
The Union shall have the right to select a Negotiating Committee consisting of the Local Union President and one (1) representative each from Warehouse, Production and Distribution areas, for a total of four (4). All members must have seniority with the Company and committee members who are absent from work for the sole purpose of labour negotiations shall not be paid for time lost.
The Union* shall notify the Company, in writing, of the names of its officers, stewards and committee members. The Company shall not be required to recognize any officer, steward or committee member until such notification from the Union has been received.
5.06	Union Responsibilities:
The Union recognizes the responsibilities imposed upon it as the exclusive bargaining agent of the unit, and will cooperate and support the Company's efforts to assure a full day's work on the part of its members; actively combat
- 5 -
Article 5 (Cont’d.)
absenteeism and any other practices which restrict optimum efficiency; improve the quality of workmanship and service; prevent accidents and strenghcen goodwill between the Company and with the employees, the customer and the public.
Article 6	- GENDER:
6.01	The Use of the masculine gender in this Agreement shall be deemed to
refer to persons of both sexes.
Article 7	- NON-DISCRIMINATION:
7.0t	This Agreement shall apply to all employees regardless of race, age,
religion, colour, sex, national origin, marital status, veteran status and mental or physical handicap.
Article 8	- ADDRESS AND TELEPHONE NUMBER:
8.0)	Each employee, whether active or inactive, shall keep the Company ad-
vised of his current address and telephone number, or contact, if a telephone is not available. The mailing of a notice to the address furnished to the Company by each employee shall be deemed to be compliance by the Company with any provision in this Agreement which requires written notice to an employee.
Article 3	• BULLETIN BOARD:
9.01	The Company shall provide a Bulletin Board at locations to be designa-
ted by the Company for the purpose of allowing the Union Steward to post official Union notices only. These notices must be duly signed by an officer of the Union and previously approved by management and restricted to:
(a)	notices of Union recreational and social affairs;
(b)	notices of Union elections;
(c)	notices of Union appointments and results of Union elections;
(d)	notices of Union meetings;
(e)	other notices concerning bona fide Union activity such as: Credit Unions.
There shall be no general distribution or posting by employees of pamphlets, advertising or political matter, notices, or any kind of literature upon Company property other than as herein provided.
Article 10	- PROBATIONARY PERIOD
10.01	An employee shall be considered to be on probation and shall not be
entitled to any seniority rights until after completing sixty-five (65) work days within a period of six (6) consecutive months from the date of last hire. If such employee shall be continued in the employ of the Company after the expiration of the probationary period, the length of service shall be computed from the date of last hire. Part-time and temporary employees who are hired on a full-time basis and have worked sixty-five (65) days in the immediately previous six (6) months, shall be credited with completing their probationary period and their last date
- 6 -
Article 10 (Cont'd.)
of hire-for seniority list purposes shall date sixty-five (65) days prior to the change to full-time basis.
An employee on probation may be discharged at the sole discretion of management and without just cause.
Article 11	- GRIEVANCE AND ARBITRATION PROCEDURE:
11.01	Grievance Procedure:
Should differences arise between the Company and an employee, or between the Company and the Union, as to the meaning or application of the provisions of this Agreement only, there shall be no suspension or stoppage of work. The employee or the Union shall present all grievances within five (5) working days from the occurrence, situation, condition, or action of management giving rise to the grievance, or the grievance shall be considered waived.
Step 1:	The employee shall discuss the grievance with the super-
visor involved. The supervisor will attempt to settle the grievance within twenty-four (24) hours after the discussion with the aggrieved employee. If not settled at Step 1, the employee may take the grievance to Step 2.
Step 2:	The employee or Steward shall submit the grievance in
writing to the Department Head within three (3) working days following notification of the Company's first step decision.
The Department Head, or his designee, shall attempt to resolve the matter and reply, in writing. If the matter is not resolved within three (3) working days, the written grievance may be submitted to Step 3> The written grievance shall identify:
(a)	the facts giving rise to the grievance;
(b)	the Article and Section of the Agreement the Union alleges that the Employer violated;
(c)	the relief requested; and the grievance shall be signed by the employee and countersigned by the Steward.
Step 3:	The employee or Union shall notify the General Manager
or his designee within three (3) working days after receipt of the Department Head's second step decision of its intent to pursue the grievance. The General Manager, or his designee will meet with the Union's Business Representative, or his designee, to resolve the matter. In the event a settlement is not reached within fivfe (5) working days, a dispute shall exist, and the resolution of the dispute shall be subject to arbitration. Grievances involving the suspension or discharge of an employee may begin at Step 3-
Those parties agree to follow each of the foregoing steps in the proces sing of grievances, and that if at any step the Company fails to give its answer within the time limit set forth, the Union may appeal the grievance to the next step. 1/ at any step the employee fails to require the grievance to be submitted to the next step within three (3) working days following the expiration of the time limit as set forth in the step procedure, the grievance will be deemed by
- 6 -
'Art i c1e 11 (Cont'd.)
both parties to be settled. A grievance that ensues during the period between the termination date of the contract and the effective date of a new contract will not be subject to arbitration unless expressly agreed to by the Company.
The Company and the Union may extend the time limit set forth in the grievance procedure by mutual agreement. The party requesting the extension must do so in writing. Only a single grievance may be heard by the arbitrator at one time, except by mutual agreement.
It is understood that the Company may bring forward and give to the Union at any time any grievance:
(a)	with respect to the conduct of the Union, its officers or committeemen;
(b)	with respect to the conduct of the employees generally;
(c)	with respect to the application or interpretation of any provision of this Agreement.
The Company will first discuss with the Union the circumstances giving rise to the grievance before submitting a formal grievance herein.
The grievance will be presented in writing to the officials of the Union and a meeting will be held within seven (7) calendar days with the Union and its Representative. Failure to agree within a period of four (4) calendar days subsequent to the meeting will permit the Company to refer the matter to a Board of Arbitration as hereinafter described, within thirty (30) calendar days.
11.02	Arbitration:
A dispute shall be deemed settled unless a written notification requesting arbitration is received by the Company from the Union Business Representative within ten (10) working days of the Union's receipt of the Company's Step 3 decision under the grievance procedure. The written notification must state the issue to be arbitrated. If the Union submits a written request, the Company and the Union shall attempt to agree upon a neutral person whom they shall designate as the arbitrator. If they are unable to agree upon the selection of such an arbitrator, they shall request the Ministry of Labour for Ontario to appoint an arbitrator.
Employees, including Union Stewards, Representatives, and committeemen requested by the union to attend a hearing during working hours, shall not be paid
for the time lost.
The Company has the right to insist that the grievor be present during
the hearing.
Any arbitrator selected under the provisions of this Article shall have the authority to render a decision which shall be final and binding on the parties to the extent provided by the law. Such decisions must be rendered within thirty (30) days of the hearing, unless otherwise agreed to by both the Company and the Union. The arbitrator shall have no power to alter or modify any of the terms of this Agreement, or to impose on any party a limitation or obligation not explicitly provided for in this Agreement. The professional fees of the Arbitrator plus any
Article 11 (Cont'd . )
other related expenses over and above those fees, shall be borne equally by both the Company and the Union.
Article 12	- SENIORITY:
12.01	Def I n i t i on:
For the determination of eligibility and participation in., the Company's benefits programs, seniority shall mean continuous employment in the Company beginning with the date on which the regular full-time employee began to work after last being hi red.
In all other instances, seniority shall mean continuous employment in the production, warehouse, vending, sign shop, fleet, sales and delivery departments.
For those employees who are hired on the same date, surname alphabetical seniority shall govern.
12.02	Layoff and Reca 1 1 :
In any layoff or recall situation anticipated to be less than fifteen (15) work days, and subject to the Employer's right to retain employees with the neces sary skills, ability and qualifications to do the available work, the Employer will lay off the most junior employee in a department.
In all cases of layoff or recall which are anticipated to be of greater than fifteen (1-5) work days, and subject to the skill, ability and qualifications to perform the work, any such laid off employee will have the right, to bump the most junior employee on the inside seniority list.
If a regular full-time employee is to be laid off for in excess of five (5) days of work, he shall displace any temporary or probationary employee in any inside department.
Employees will be recalled in reverse order to that in which they were laid off, subject to their skill, ability and qualifications to perform the available work.
(IDENTICAL LANGUAGE FOR THE " CJOI3CE1 SENIORITY LISTS AND EMPLOYEES)
12.03	Loss	of Seniority:
employ	An employee will lose seniority and will no longer be in the Company's if the employee:	
	(a)	quits;
	(b)	is discharged, and such discharge is not reversed through the grievance procedure herein;
	(c)	retires;
	(d)	is laid off for a period of the lesser of twelve (12) months or the length of the employee's seniority.
	(e)	fails to notify the Company of his intention to return to work within three (3) days after being notified by the Company of his recall in writing by telegram or registered mail, at his last address on record with the
- 8 -
ru t * c l e 12 (Con t	’d.)
(f)	has a non-occupational sickness or disability exceeding twelve (12) calendar months;
(g)	has an occupational injury, sickness or disability exceeding twelve (12) calendar months;
(h)	works another job while absent from the Company except in case of layoff;
(i)	is absent from work for two (2) days without prior notification to, and approval of, the Company.
12.04 Job	Pos ting:
In the event of a permanent job vacancy in a classification on the inside seniority list (Production, Warehouse, or Fleet Departments), any employee in another inside classification may bid for the job. Where the skill, ability and qualifications of bidding employees are relatively equal, the most senior employee will be awarded the job. Postings shall be for three (3) days. The original and first successive vacancies (i.e. the successful applicant)	will
be posted and any subsequent vacancies may be filled at the Company's discretion.
All job postings shall indicate the job classification, rate of pay, and the department, The current shift will also be indicated.
NOTE:	This does not create any restrictions on the Company's
right to alter shifts.
There shall be two (2) seniority lists:	one (1) seniority list for
outside employees and one (1) list for inside employees which would include Production, Warehouse and Fleet.
In the event of a permanent job vacancy in a classification on the outside seniority list (Sales, Delivery and Vending Departments), any employee in another outside classification may bid for the job. Where the skill, ability and qualifications are relatively equal, the most senior employee will be awarded the job
In the event of a permanent job vacancy in the delivery merchandiser/ regular or delivery merchandiser/chain store or delivery merchandiser/Premix-Postmix or delivery merchandiser/bar classification in any one of the geographical sectors established by the Company, any employees on the outside list including delivery merchandisers, in other sectors may bid for the vacancy.' The original and first
successive vacancies will be posted. Where the skill, ability and qualifications of applicants are relatively equal, the most senior employee will be awarded the job. The Company will select and advise the successful applicant within five (5) working days. If this cannot be done, the Union will be advised.
12,05	Assignment of Daily Overtime Work for Hourly-rated Employees:
Whenever there is a need for hourly rated employees to work daily overtime within a department, the overtime will be offered to:
(1)	the employee(s) within the department who normally perform the work;
' 9 -
Article 12 (Cont'd.)
(2)	if the employee(s) within the department are unable to perform the requested overtime, then the overtime will be offered by seniority to other employee(s) within the department who have the ability to perform the work;
(3)	if the Company is unable to find employee(s) within the department to perform the overtime, then the overtime will be assigned to the least senior employee(s) within the department who has the ability to perform the work requi red.
Each employee is expected to cooperate with the Company in the performance of such work.
12.06	Assignment of Scheduled Overtime Work:
Whenever there is a need for scheduled overtime within a department on the employee(s) sixth or seventh working day (or overtime which is scheduled at least 24 hours in advance), the overtime will be offered to:
(1)	the employee(s) who normally perform the job and, if the employee(s) or not enough employees are available to perform the work the Company will:
(2)	offer the overtime work to the most qualified senior employee within the department and, if the employee(s) or not enough employees are available to perform the work, the Company will:
(3)	offer the work to the most qualified employee outside the department capable of performing the available overtime work. If none or not enough employees are available to perform the work, the Company will require the 'least senior qualified employee(s) to perform the work.
12.07	An employee who is or has been transferred from the bargaining unit to a job with the Company outside of the bargaining unit, will continue to accumulate seniority for a period of up to one (1) year. If transferred back to the bargaining unit within the said period of one (1) year, he shall return with all seniority. If transferred back after one (1) year has elapsed, he will have the seniority he had at the date of transfer plus one (1) year.
12.08	Should the Company transfer any non-bargaining unit employee, who is employed as of the commencement of this Agreement, to an open job within the bargaining unit, the employee's seniority will be computed from the last day of hiring. Following six'(6) months in the bargaining unit, the employee will be entitled to exercise his full service under the seniority article within this Agreement.
Article 13	- NO STRIKE, NO LOCKOUT:
13*01	The Company agrees that there will be no lockout of employees, and the
Union agrees that there will be no strike, slowdown, sit-down or other interference with work or the Company's operations while the Agreement is in force.
10 -
Article 1*1	- EXPRESS WAIVER:
1^.01	The parties agree that this Agreement constitutes the entire con-
tract between them governing the rates of pay and working conditions of the employees and the bargaining unit during the terms hereof, and settles all demands and issues on a 1 I matters subject to collective bargaining including any demands made by the Union during negotiations.
Article 15	- TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE:
15'01	If, during the life of the Agreement, the Company wishes to intro-
duce new technology which would have the effect of eliminating an existing classification or creating a new classification, the Company will give the Union notice, in writing, of such changes thirty (30) days in advance; and, upon request, before the implementation of such changes, the Company will arrange a meeting with the Union to discuss the effects of the employment status of such employees affected by such change.
15.02	If a regular employee should be displaced from his job by reason
of a technological change i'n the Company's operations, and provided the employee has the necessary qualifications to perform the work available after a reasonable training period, the Company shall arrange for him to receive such training.
Article 16	- SUPERVISORS PERFORMING BARGAINING-UNIT WORK:
16.01	Supervisors will not normally perform work customarily performed by the employees in the bargaining unit, except:
(a)	as a result of an urgent or emergency condition;
(b)	for the purpose of demonstration or training;
(c) to occasionally relieve an employee for a short period; or
(d) when a regular employee is not available due to being late for work or absent from work.
Such work by supervisors will not result in the layoff of any regular full-time employees falling within the scope of this Agreement.
Sales supervisors shall continue to perform their normal sales and merchanidising activities.
Article 17	- HOURS AND WORKWEEK FOR HOURLY-PAID EMPLOYEES:
17.01	Work Week:
The normal work week shall be five (5) consecutive days commencing on or after Sunday midnight and ending on or before the following Sunday midnight.
17.02	Hours of Work:
Employees will be assigned to work the following scheduled work week:
Eight (8) hours a day, five (5) days a week and forty (40) hours from Monday through Friday; or ten (10) hours a day, four (4) days a week from Monday through Thursday or Tuesday through Friday.
- 11 -
17 (Cont'd.)
This provision shall not be construed as an obligation on the part-of the Company to provide employees with any specified number of hours during a work day or work week.
17-03	Shift Schedule:
The Company reserves the sole right to establish the number of shifts, the start and stopping time of each shift, and to cancel shifts as necessary to assure the efficient operation of the bus.iness.
17.01)	Premium Pay:
The Company will not: pay premium pay on premium pay, nor will there be any pyramiding of premium pay.
17-05	Overtime:
Overtime will be paid ; time and one-half (U) at the regular straight time base rate for all authorized uork performed:
(II in excess of fo. tv (40) hours a week, and credit will be given for all excused, approved absences;
(2)	cn a Holiday;
(3)	on a Saturday or Sunday if it is not part of the regular work schedule.
Article 18	- HOURS AND WORK WEEK FOR EMPLOYEES PAID BASE AND/OR COMMISSION
AND/OR WEEKLY SALAfiTT
18.01	Work Week:
The normal work week shall be five (5) consecutive days commencing on or after Sunday midnight and endi -,g on or before the following Sunday midnight.
18.02	Hours of Work:
Employees will be assigned to work one of the following scheduled
work weeks:
Five
Five
(5) consecutive days, Monday through Friday;
(5) consecutive days, Tuesday through Saturday.
In the event the Company schedules a Wednesday through Sunday work week, the Company agrees to meet wth the Union to discuss the number of employees that will be assigned to work th? schedule.
12
Article 18-03 ■ _ Overtime
Eligible employees shall receive daily overtime based on one and one-half (1i) times their regular weekly or daily rate * i.e. forty (40) hours weekly or eight (8) hours daily as appropriate, for a 11 authorized work performed in excess of
(1)	nine 9) hours daily, effective July I, 1990;
(2)	eight and one-half (8s) hours daily, effective Jan. 1, 1991;
(3)	eight (8) hours daily, effective July 1, 1992.
Overtime will be paid on the greater of weekly or daily overtime, but not both - i.e. there will not be any pyramiding of overtime. One-half (?) hour will be allowed daily for meals and breaks.
Pre-sellers shall work as of May 28, 1930 on a daily eight (8) hour work schedule (8:00 a.m. - 5:00 p.m.) with one hour unpaid meal with daily overtime at time and one-half for all authorized work over eight (8) hours per day.
Article 19	- PAID HOLIDAYS:
19-01	Eligibility:
To qualify for a paid holiday, an employee must have completed the probationary period, worked on the last regular work day, except on an approved leave of absence, preceding or following the holiday if requested by management to do so, and must have been on the active payroll for a four (4) week period imme diately preceding the holiday.
19-02	Number of Holidays:
New Year 1s Day,
Working Day Afcer New Year's Day,
Good Friday,
Victoria Day,
Canada Day,
Boxing Day.
•• - One-half (?) day on Christmas Eve when falling on a regular work day.
19.03	Holiday Pay For Hourly Paid Employees:
•Holiday pay will be computed by multiplying an employee's regular hourly base rate by the number of hours in the employee's normal daily schedule as set forth in section 17-02 herein.
19.01!	Holiday Pay For Employees Paid Base and Commission:
Holiday pay will be computed as one-fifth (1/5th) of an eligible employee's average weekly earnings of their base plus commission only, for previous fifty-two (52) weeks period ended December 31st.
Civic Holiday,
Labour Day,
Thanksgiving Day, i-0ay at Christmas Eve * Christmas Day,
- 13 “
Article lb) (Cont'd.)
19.0	5	Holiday Pay For Weekly Paid Employees:
Holiday pay will be computed as one-fifth (l/5th) of an eligible employee's weekly earnings.
Article 20	- VACATIONS:
20.01	Eligibility:
Vacation entitlement shall be based on full years of continuous service as a permanent full-time regular employee as of December 31 of the vacation year.
20.02	Scheduling Of Vacation:
Employees will be solicited for their vacation preference during the period January 1 to February 15- Vacation schedule selection wi1 I be determined by job classification seniority. Should an employee fail to make the vacation selection(s) by February 15, the Company will assign the employee's vacation weeks.
The vacation schedule shall, whenever possible, be completed and posted by April 1 in each year.
Employees will schedule vacation in the period from January to November 15 in each calendar year. The Company will consider an employee's request to either change his previously scheduled vacation week, or to schedule a vacation week outside of the eligible periods, but the General Manager reserves the sole right to approve or disapprove the request of which will not be unreasonably withheld. Due to the seasonal nature of the business, management will determine the number of employees who will be allowed to schedule a particular vacation week.
Vacation time must be used in the year credited, as vacation time cannot be accumulated or carried over to the next year. No more than two (2) weeks' vacation can be scheduled and/or taken consecutively unless agreed to by the General Manager. No vacations are to be scheduled and/or taken the week prior to a week in which a statutory holiday occurs unless agreed to by the General Manager.
An employee's first two (2) weeks of vacation entitlement shall be as set out above and any remaining vacation entitlement shall be selected after all employees in the appropriate classification have selected their first two (2) weeks.
20.03	Entitlement:
Annual vacations will be paid on the following basis:
(1| One (1) day for each completed month of service to a maximum of ten (10) days, if completed less than one
(1)	year of continuous service by December 31st;
(2)	Two (2) weeks after one (l) year of continuous service if completed by December 31st;
(3)	Three (3) weeks after five (5) years of continuous service if Completed by December 31st;
ariicie 20 (Cont'd.)
(f|) our (4) weeks after ten (10) years of continuous service if completed by-December 31st;
(5) Five (5) weeks after twenty-five (25) years of continuous service if completed by December 31st.
20.Ob	Vacat ion Amount :
Vacation pa/ shall be paid at the tirre errjJoyees take vacation as
follows:
(1)	b% of earrings fncmdate of hire to Pacentaa^ 31st for QTpdQyees with less than one (1) year of continuous service as of December 31st;
(2)	2% of earnings for the previous period January 1st through to December 31st, for each week of vacation entitlement for employees with one (1) year or more of continuous service as of December 31st;
(3)	If an employee's vacation is split, payment shall be made on a pro-rated basis.
Article 21	- JURY DITTY AND CROAN WITNESS LEAVE:
21.01	A permanent full-time regular employee who has completed his probationary period and who is subpoenaed to appear in Court as a Crown witness, or who is called for jury duty, will receive the difference between his regular earnings for each day of necessary absence, and the fee received from the Court, provided the employee furnishes the Company with a certificate of service and satisfactory evidence as to the amount of fee received.
21.02	For the purpose of this Article, the regular earnings of an employee for a day shall be deemed to be the earnings to which he would be entitled and by virtue of Article 19, Paid Holiday, or any portion thereof. Upon receipt of the jury duty summons or subpoena, the employee shall immediately notify the Employer.
Upon release from jury duty or Crown witness duty, the employee shall immediately notify the Company of h i s a v a i I a b i I i ty to return to work.
Article 22	- BEREAVEMENT LEAVE:
22.01	Should an employee be absent because of death in his immediate family, he shall be entitled to be absent with pay, provided the employee has comp eted his probationary period, for not more than three (3) (five (5) for wife, husband or child) of the employee's regular scheduled normal work days, not to extend beyond the day after the funeral.
22.02	The term, " immediate fami ly" shall be understood to mean wife, husband, children, common-law spouse and children, father, mother, brother and sister.
22.03	Up to one (1) day's pay will be paid for time lost caused by attendance at the funeral of the employee's grandparents, grandchild, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, mother-in-law or father-in-law.
Article 22 (Cont'd.)
22.0k - Bereavement pay shall be computed the same as for a Paid Holiday as specified in Article 19-
22.05	The Company reserves the right to require satisfactory proof of
death and the employee's attendance at the funeral.
Article 23	- SICK LEAVE:
23-01	Amount Of Eligibility:
All regular full- time employees having one (1) or more years of service with the Company shall be allowed up to six (6) days of sick leave per calendar year.
The employee who is absent under the provision of this section must personally advise his immediate supervisor of such illness prior to the start of the shift. Failure to do so will render the absence unexcused and unpaid unless it can be shown that it was impossible for the employee to give or cause such notice to be given to his supervisor. Family illness does not qualify for payment under the provisions of this section.
The Company may require proof of illness and/or a doctor’s certificate, after an employee has been absent for illness or accident for three (3) days in a calendar year.
23.02	Sick Leave Payment:
Sick days will be paid to eligible employees at two-thirds (2/3rds) of the amount as calculated for Holiday Pay under Article 19-
23.03	Sick Leave Bonus:
After each year without being absent for any reason other than illness or leave under the provisions of this Col ective Agreement, the employee is entitled to receive the credit, payment he has not used for sick leave, up to a maximum of six (6) days per calendar year, at the ra e established for a Statutory Holiday.
An employee who, at the end of a calendar year, has unused credit of five (5) days or more is entitled to a leave of absence of one (l) complete work week, provided he has not been absent during the calendar year, other than illness or authorized leave of absence.
An employee absent for more than one (1) month by reason of Workers' Compensation leave or layoff will have any bonus payment to which he might ocher-wise be entitled, pro-rated over the course of the calendar year.
Article 2k - LEAD PERSON:
2k.0]	The Company reserves the right to appoint any bargaining-unit employee
as a Lead person, without regard for seniority, for any length of period and at any time it deems appropriate.
An employee who is appointed to a lead person position, and works at least one (1) hour as a lead person, will be paid a minimum of fifty cents (50<)
- 16 -
nn icie 24 (Cont'd.)
an hour above his regular rate.
Lead person shall be responsible to organize and direct the work force in work procedures under a supervisor's instructions. Lead person shall not issue disciplinary notations.
Article 25	~ SAFETY:
25.01	The Company and the Union mutually agree that employees should be
encouraged to cooperate in the maintenance of health and safe working conditions, and in the observance of the Occupational Health and Safety Act.
The Company will provide at no cost to the employees, any protective equipment or clothing as specified by the Occupational Health and Safety Act.
This will be done on a replacement system. A copy of Form 7 will be given to the appropriate Safety Committee.
Article 26	- WAGES:
26.01 - Hourly, Base Plus	Commission and Weekly	Rates:	
JOB CLASSIFICATION		EFFECT	1 V E
Department - Production	05/28/90	02/01/91	02/01/92
Maintenance I	$16.74	$17-66	$18.72
IVhi ntenance 1 1	15.49	16.34	17.32
Attendant 1	15.49	16.34	17.32
Attendant 1 1	14:42	15-21	16.12
General Labour	14.16	14.94	15.84
Department - Warehouse			
Checker	15.49	16. 34	17.32
Shipper/Receiver	14.42	15.21	16.12
General Warehouse Labour	14.16	14.94	15-84
Department - Fleet			
Mechanic - Class A	16.74	17.66	18.72
Painter	16.11	,17-00	18.02
Mechanical Labour	14.42	15-21	16.12
Gerieral Labour	14.16	14.94	15-84
Department - Vending			
Maintenance 1	16.74	17.66	18.72
Maintenance 1,1	16.11	17-00	18.02
Special Delivery	$609.18	$642.68	$681.25
Production/Warehouse Forklift Classification will be established as soon as Company policy is in place and will have the following rate of:
14.37
15.16
16.07
JCB CLASSIFICATION
L f r
i L
Department - Delivery
Delivery Merchandiser Regular Routes Chain Stores
Post-Mix, Pre-Mix, Bar Routes Delivery Merchandiser Assistant
*■ - Tractor Trailer Routes gut $28.00
05/28/90	02/01/91	02/01/92
$609.18	$642.68	$681.24
609.18	642.68	681.24
609.18	642.68	681.24
560.38	591.20	626.67
v-iukly allowance.
Department - Sales
Pre-Sellers
Regular Route Base Commission per Case Chain Store Base Commission per Case
651 .S'r 1.5c 651.64 1.2c
687 - 48	728.73
i.5c	1.5t
687.1(8	728.73
l.2c	1.2c
26.02	She ft Pi fferen ti al
Shift differential of .50c per hour worked, shall be paid to all employees assigned to a shift starting at or after 12:00 noon. They will receive the shift premium for all hours worked after 4:00 p.m.
26.03	Saturday and Sunday Premium:
Employees whose normal five (5) day work sveek include5 a Saturday or Sunday will be paid a 75< premium for each hour worked on Saturday, and $1.00 premium for each hour worked on Sunday. There will be no premium on the Saturday or Sunday premiums.
26.0b	Vending :
For Vending employees recalled 10 work on any day they shall be paid time and one-half (li) for all hours actual y worked, or 3 hours at his regular straight time hourly rate, whichever is greater.
Servicemen will be given three dollars ($3-00) per week for 'phone calls and parking meters.
Servicemen will be given at the. end of each calendar year One Hundred Dollars ($100.00) for tool allowance.
Article 27	- APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE:
27.01	Personal Leave:
A permanent ful 1-time regular employee who has completed his probationary period may apply for a leave of absence without pay for legitimate personal reasons.
A request for such leave shall be made in writing stating reasons. The Company will not unreasonably withhold granting personal leave. If the Company grants such leave it shall confirm the terms of the leave in writing. 1/ an employee' s approved leave of absence exceeds one (1) month, he must at-range to prepay the premiums for all
benefits; In any event, an,employee on a leave of absence cannot be covered by Weekly Disability and Long Term Disability.
Article 27 (Cont’d.)
27.02	Union Leave:
The Company agrees to grant upon the written request of the Union, leave of absence for a period of not more than twelve (12) months to any employee who has been elected or appointed as an official of the National Union or of the Local Union, if such duties require him to have leave of absence from his Company duties. The Company will consider an extension of such leave for up to an additional twelve (12) months or'the duration of the Collective Agreement, whichever is longer, if requested by the Union.
27*03	Training Leave:
If the Company sends an employee on a training course during work ng hours, the employee will be paid his regular earnings for the period. To qua ify, training course content must, in the Company's opinion, be of direct benefit o the Company's operations.
In the event an employee enrols in a night school course that wi 1 benefit himself and the Company in relation to his respective job, the employee may apply in writing describing the course that he wishes to enrol in and explain the benefits to himself and the Company. Upon acceptance of the course by the Company, it will pay 50% of the cost of the course to a maximum eighty dollars ($80.00) upon the successful completion of the course.
27-0*4	Paternity Leave:
The Company will grant a leave of absence without full-time regular employee who has completed his probationary of one (l) day for the purposes of attending the birth of his of his child- to- be.
pay to a permanent period for a period child or the adoption
Article 28	- DISCIPLINARY RECORD:
28.01	All disciplinary notations in an employee's work record (excluding sus-
pensions) shall be, removed from the file, provided the employee has had a clear disciplinary record during the immediately previous eighteen (18) months. Suspensions shall be removed after thirty-six (36) clear months.
Article 29	- BENEFITS:
29*01	Benefit Plan:
The Company agrees to provide a Benefits Plan as outlined in "Group Insurance Plan Booklet" .
- 19 *
Article 10	- TERM OF AGREEMENT:
30.01	This Agreement shall become effective May 28, 1990 an# shall remain
in full force and effect through midnight, January 31. 1993. and shall be renewed automatically thereafter for a period ot one (T) year each unless either party gives notice in writing of the desire to change or of termination at least one hundred and twenty (120) days prior to the current expiration date of this Agreement. Within thirty (30) days of the expiration of this Agreement, both the Company and the Union, upon receipt of written notice, shall confer and attempt to negotiate as to the proposed changes or a renewal Agreement.
The parties hereto, by written agreement, may extend said period for the purpose of reaching a new agreement.
SIGNED BY THE PARTIES ON THE Jcfi- DAY OF

1990.
FOR J1HE- UNION
,l (pM
//O CA-U	2. PA18&
/Ju /v'v_6^/C'a"0	22 •
/JO
20 -
ANNEX 1	- UNIFORM:
The uniform allowance for employee(s) wi 11 be provided on the following basis :
A full, clean uniform, or suitable work clothing as specified by the Employer, shall be worn at all times while performing services on behalf of the Company. Uniforms are required so that employees will present a neat, professional appearance and image of the Company. The Company agrees to..furnish uniforms and the employees are responsible^ for maintaining uniforms.
Employees are not to wear their uniforms in places that would reflect negatively on the Company's image, during non-working hours. Failure to adhere to the uniform code at all times shall result in discipline, up to and including discharge.
Delivery Merchandisers, Helpers, Vending Service Department - Full Time:
Each employee is entitled to:	A Summer issue consisting of two (2)
pairs of lightweight pants and two (2) shirts; a Winter issue consisting of two (2) jackets, two (2) shirts and two (2) pairs of pants; one (1) tie and one (1) cap. In addition, each employee is required to wear safety boots. II an employee does not wish to draw the full allotment as indicated above, he w i I I be able to draw the articles he requires as long as the cost for the articles requested does not exceed the total cost of the normal issue as indicated below. If the amount exceeds the cost of the normal issue, the employee will be charged the difference and this amount will be immediately deducted from his subsequent payroll cheque.
The Company will provide a maximum of two (2) pairs of safety boots.
The amount of the fund will be $355.00
As indicated above, the uniform issues are on a no-charge basis as long as the total fund is not exceeded. Uniforms shall be and remain the property of the Company at all times. However, if an employee leaves the Company, he w i 11 be charged on the basis of the unamortized balance of the value of the uniform. Each employee will be given credit for the unamortized balance on the return of pants and jackets if they are dry-cleaned and in reusable condition. No credit will be given for shirts, caps or ties.
Presalesmen/EauiDment Salesmen:
Each salesman is required to wear, on a daily basis, the prescribed uniform consisting of a jacket, pants, tie and overcoat. The Company will absorb a percentage of the cost of the uniform up to a maximum amount per year. The salesman is therefore able to purchase any article of clothing or safety footwear and the Company w i I I contribute to the maximum o f the year’s fund towards this cost with the balance being paid by the salesman, to the Company by way of weekly payroll deduction. The payroll deduction will be made at the rate of $5-00 per week until the balance has been paid.
The amount of the fund will be $f#25-00-
Under no circumstances will the balance be carried forward in the employee's accounts receivable from one fiscal year to the next.
21
ANNEX 1	- UNIFORM (Cont'd.)
Production - Warehouse - Ful 1-Time:
Each employee is entitled to summer issue consisting of three (3) shirts and two (2) pants and a winter issue consisting of three (3) shirts and two (2) pants. In addition, each employee is required to wear safety boots and protective hearing devices. If an employee does not wish to draw his full allotment as indicated above, he will be able to draw the articles he required as long as the cost of the articles requested does not exceed the total cost of the normal issue. The employee will be charged the difference and this amount will be immediately deducted from his subsequent payroll cheque.
The Company will provide a maximum of two (2) pairs of safety boots.
The amount of the fund will be $170.00.
As ind cated above, the uniform issues are on a no-charge basis as long as the total fund s not exceeded. However, if an employee leaves the Company, he will be charged on the basis of the unamortized balance of the value of the uniform.
Pre/Postmix & Bottling Maintenace and Fleet Maintenance Employees - Full-Time;
The Company will provide each full-time employee in the above departments with a proper uniform and will also provide for the cleaning of this uniform at no cost to the employee. The employee is responsible for the normal care of this uniform and if, through employee negligence, a uniform is damaged or lost, the employee w i I I be held financially responsible for the replacement cost.
In addition, each employee is required to wear safety boots.
The Company will provide a maximum of two (2) pairs of safety boots. ANNEX I I - LABJOUR/MANAGEMENT MEETINGS:
This annex will serve to confirm our understanding reached during negotiations with regard to monthly Labour/Management meetings.
It was agreed to by both parties that, when required, monthly meetings will be held to discuss and hopefully resolve issues that pertain to good relations.
It was also agreed that each party would submit an agenda at least two (2) days in advance of the meeting in order that both parties have an opportunity to research possible resolutions.
ANNEX III - TEMPORARY EMPLOYEES:
The Company and the Union agree by way of letter of understanding that any employees who are hired as temporary employees during the periods April 15 to September 15. or December 1 to December 31. and who are continued as full-time employees beyond September 15 or December 31 as the case may be, shall have all days worked as temporary employees credited towards their probationary period.
- 23 -
HrtNCA IV - RETROACTIVITY:
The employees' wage increase shall be retroactive to February 1, 1990 for those who are still on payroll on May 28, 1990 and shall be calculated on the number of hours worked, or commission as the case may be.
ANNEX V - PENSION:
i s.
The Company's current pension plan shall continue as it currently
Effective February 1, 1991 all members of the bargaining unit covered' by this Agreement, shall participate in the Canadian Commercial Workers Industrial Pension Plan (C.C.W.I.P.P.). This shall be in accordance with the Participation Agreement letter signed by the Company, dated April 20, 1990. In addition, the following specific arrangements shall apply:
()) Eligible employees may continue in the Company Pension Plan at their option, but a pension committee shall be set up to review all alternatives concerning funds in the Company Pension Plan, including any buy-back possibility.
(2) The Company agrees to sign a " Participation Agreement" and supply other documents, forms, reports or information required by the Trustees of the C.C.W.I.P.P.
ANNEX VI - BENEFITS:
The full-time employees are covered by a group insurance. The Company added the actual coverage listed below:
Life Insurance
-	Additional coverage w i 11 be available through payroll decut ion.
- Weekly Di sabi 1 i ty
-	Effective at the ratification date, the weekly disability benefit maximum will be the U.I.C. maximum benefit. Also, the employee w i I I be covered for the total duration of ^1 weeks instead of the first week to the 15th and 30th to the *»1st.
Dental Plan
-	At the ratification date, the 1988 O.D.A. schedule will be in effect. Effective February 1, 1991 the 1989 0.0.A. will be in effect; and effective February 1 , 1992 the 1990 O.D.A. will be in effect.
ANNEX VI I - COST OF UV1N3 ALLOWANCE:
If the Consumer Price Index, All Canada (1971 = 100) as issued by Statistics Canada for the month of September, 1992 is greater than for the month of September, 1991 increased by six per cent. (6%), then a cost-of-living adjustment will become payable for the period from October 1, 1992 until January 31 » 1993* The amount of such adjustment will be $ .01 per hour for each .03 points by which the September; 1992 Index value exceeds the " trigger" value (i.e. the September, 1992 value, plus (>%, rounded to the nearest one-tenth {1/10th) of a point.
Ih -
ANNEX VII - COST OF LIVING ALLOWANCE (Corn'd.)
Such cost-of-living allowance will be implemented immediately following the release by Statistics Canada of the September, 1392 C.P.I. value retroactive to employees on the payroll on September 30, 1992, to October 1, 1992. It will be treated as a separate adjustment (not part of the regular hourly rate) but will be paid for all hours paid for by the Company. It will be paid to all Regular Employees, and not to Temporary Employees. No account will be taken of any increase in the C.P.I. value which is in excess of the September, 1992 value, increased by 3%.