SOURCE	Co.;.		
£?f.	0$	ou V*' t	p'
TERM.			3L
No.' Of . <f\ ■ EMPLOYEES S CJ			
NQM6RE
O'SMPlOflS
Ac
CARLINS O'KEEFE BREWERIES OF CANADA LIMITED
TORONTO PLANT
INDEX
Adequate Manpower Bereavement Allowance Check-off
Cost of Living Allowance Discipline
Duplication of Benefits Grievance Procedure Guaranteed Wage Plan Hiring Practice Injury or Illness
Job Posting - Seniority Applications Jury Duty
management Functions Meal Allowance No Strike Clause Notice Boards Pay Day Pension Plan Picket Line Plant Holidays Policy Grievance
Probationary and Teuqnrary Employees
Protective Clothing
Rates for Transferred Employees
Regular Hours and Overtime Conditions
Reporting Allowance
Rest Periods
Scope of the Bargaining Unit Seniority Definitions Transfers
Layoffs and Recalls . Termination of Shift Premiums Severance Pay Sick Leave Technological Change Termination Clause
PACE
35
35
3
34
37
37
27
43
3
5
12
36
2
25
30
36
25
55
36
14
28
6
26
26
21
25
24
1
6
6
10
8
7
33
37
71
38
41
INDEX	PA6E
Tool Allowance 33 Unemployment Insurance Forms .. 11 Unemployment Insurance Premium Rebate 37 Union Activities 3 Union Shop 2 Vacation Plan 17 Vacation Bonus 19 Vacation Payment on Termination 20 Mage Rates 31 Welfare Plan Benefits 69
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
THIS ‘ASRHSESri rMItT iTIllT £& JKf CF	1989.
BETWEEN:
CANADIAN UNION OF BREWERY AND GENERAL WORKERS - 325,
COMPONENT OF N.U.P.S.E. Toronto, Ontario, (hereinafter called the "Union")
OF THE FIRST PART
- and -■
CARLING O'KEEFE BREWERIES OF CANADA LIMITED, Toronto, Ontario (hereinafter called the "Coopany")
OF THE SECOND PART
WITNESSETH:
In consideration of the mutual terms and covenants hereinafter contained, it is hereby agreed by and between the parties hereto as follows:
- 1 -
SECTION 1 - SCOPE OF THE BARGAINING UNIT
1.01	The Union shall be the exclusive collective bargaining representative of all employees of the bargaining unit which consists of all employees of the Company except -
(a)	foremen and persons	above the rank of
foreman;
(b)	office staff;
(c)	operating engineers	performing shift
and maintenance duties, and who-constitute a separate bargaining unit represented by the International Union of Operating Engineers, Local No. 796, provided that if any shift engineer is regularly assigned to that kind of maintenance work which is regularly performed by members of the bargaining unit for more than five days per month, he shall be required to be a member of the Union as provided in Section 2, but
wherever possible only one such operating engineer will be	so assigned.
(d)	guards.
(e)	employees	covered	by a	subsisting
agreement	between	Carling	O'Keefe
Breweries of Canada Limited and Brewery, Malt and Soft Drink Workers,
- Local 304 or successors thereof.
1.02	The Company will supply to the Union a list of the supervisory personnel who are classified as foreman whose duties are mainly supervisory but who may occasionally relieve an employee in the bargaining unit for a short period or work in emergency situations, or to train or ‘demonstrate.
- 2 -
1.03	Wherever the masculine is used in this
Agreement, it shall be considered as if the feminine has been used where the context so requires.
SECTION 2 - UNION SHOP
2.02
2.01	Each member of the bargaining unit shall be a 1 s member in good standing of the Brewery i/. Workers Component No. 325.
9 The Iftion agrees that any employee engaged by the Company to work in the bargaining unit who is satisfactory to the Company will be allowed to make application for membership in the said union on payment of the regular initiation fees and monthly dues, and will not be denied membership without just cause.
2.03	Whenever an employee is suspended or
expelled, the Union will give the Coopaiy, in writing, the reason for such action.
SECTION 3 - MANAGEMENT FUNCTIONS
3.01	The Union acknowledges that it is the exclusive function of the Company to:
(a)	Maintain order, discipline and efficiency.
(b)	Hire, discharge, transfer, promote, demote or discipline employees provided that tne claim that an employee has been discharged, transferred, demoted or disciplined without just cause may be dealt with as hereinafter provided.
3.02	It is understood that in exercising these functions the Company must conform to all other clauses of this Agreement. When an employee is disciplined or discharged the appropriate Steward and the Union Secretary will be given in writing reasons for such action.
- 3 -
SECTION 4 - CHECK-OFF
4.01	The Company agrees to-provide for the convenience of its employees a voluntary revocable check-off arrangement which will permit the employees to have their regular dues and assessments deducted from their ^ pav. The Company shall forward the amount so l deducted to the Treasurer of the Union no ) later than the tenth day of the month following the date on which the dues and assessment deductions have been made, together with a list of the employees, giving particulars of those who have been terminated or who have been laid off since the previous
list was forwarded.
In the event that any such deductions are not guide for reasons of sickness, vacations, leave of absence, etc., they should be made upon written request of the Union from the first pay of the next following month in which wages are owing to such employees.
SECTION 5 - HIRING PRACTICE
5.01	In the event that the Company engages new employees, it is agreed that these new employees will be required to sign a dues authorization card at the time of hiring.
The Company shall promptly notify the Department Steward and the Union Secretary when a new employee is engaged for that Department.
SECTION 6 - UNION ACTIVITIES
6.01	No employee shall be discriminated against or discharged for his activity as a Union member or for doing committee or other work for the Union, provided, however, that, permission
ic.''btttofld-1Ji such
activities occur during working hours and
- 4 -
interfere With the employee's normal duties on behalf of the Company. It is agreed that such permission, if requested, will not be unreasonably withheld in any instance.
6.02
The Company agrees to grant leave of absence for a period of not more than 12 months, or for the balance of the duration of this Agreement, whichever is the longer, to any employee who has been elected or appointed as an Official of the Canadian Union or of the Component, if such duties require him to have leave of absence from his Company duties on a full time basis.
6.03	Employees on such leave of absence will be continued as active menfcers of the pension and welfare plan upon payment of the total contributions whether from the Union or from the employee concerned. During such periods of leave of absence the employee's seniority shall continue to accumulate as if he were employed at his regular post by the Company.
A
Upon written application of the Union, the Company agrees to grant an educational leave of absence, without. .Iqss of regular pay, not to exceed three normarviofttTfig-clays- in any'
one calendar year, to two Union executives,
elected Stewards,	Stewards as
defined in the Grievance Procedure Section. Such educational leave shall be so arranged between the Company and the Union so as to minimize disruption of the Company's operations.
An application for leave form will be submitted to the Company at least fourteen (14) calendar days in advance of the date for which leave is requested. The Company shall respond to the request within seven (7) calendar days after receipt of the form.
- 5 -
SECTION 7 - INJURY OR ILLNESS
7.01	Sickness or disability resulting from an accident shall not be sufficient cause for discharge. Upon recovery the employee shall receive his former position or some other suitable job in his department if held by an employee with less seniority, if the recovered employee is capable of performing the job in a satisfactory manner.
SECTION 8 - DEFINITION OF SENIORITY
8.01	A yyj.tacit'f.J to for .each of the following departments of the Company shall be established-and seniority shall be based upon the total length of service with the Company as outlined in the succeeding clauses, and provided further that this shall not affect the present seniority status of any member of the bargaining unit.
8.02	EMPLOYEE DEFINITIONS
A.	Probationary Employee
A probationary employee is one who has been hired with a view to his becoming a regular employee.
B.	Temporary Employee
A temporary enployee is one who has been hired for seasonal periods, vacation and illness relief, short term temporary requirements or emergency situations.
C.	Regular Bmloyte
A regular employee is one who:
(i) has actually worked for a
period in excess of one hundred
- 6 -
and thirty-two (132) working days in a twelve month period as a temporary employee, or
has actually worked in excess of ninety (90) working days as probationary employee, or
(iii) having been reclassified from temporary to probationary status, has actually worked in excess of a total of ninety (90) working days from the commencement of his last employment with the Company.
8.0;
SENIORITY STATUS
I A.
P^6ajigna^_^lg^e|
A probationary employee shall be placed on the seniority list of the department in which he completed the probationary period and his seniority date shall be determined by selecting a date 90 working days earlier than his 90th working day, provided that such date shall not be earlier than his actual date of hire.
B. Temporary Employee
A temporary employee shall be placed on the seniority list of the department in which he completed the temporary period and his seniority date shall be determined by selecting a date six calendar months earlier than his 132nd working day, provided that such date shall not be earlier than his actual date of hire.
8.04	Insurance and Welfare entitlements will
commence upon attainment of. regular employee status.
8.05	If a probationary or tenporary employee Is injured or suffers an industrial illness which entitles him to Workers' Compensation coverage, the tine periods referred to in
8.02	above shall be increased by the number of days for which he was covered by Compensation, provided however that he shall not be given a seniority date earlier than his actual hiring date.
6.06	Seniority lists shall be revised and posted in each department every six months, and copies shall be supplied to Union Officers.
8.07	The departments shall be as follows:
laj	Brewing Department, which includes
Brewhouse, Fermenting, Cellars and Kegging.
(b)	Bottleshop, Shipping Department, including the handling and storing of goods or empties in outside storage locations where the handling and services of such goods or empties is not supplied by the owner or operator of the storage premises.
(c)	Maintenance Department including watchmen.
SECTION 9 - TERMINATION OF SENIORITY
9.01	Seniority shall cease and employment shall be terminated for any of the following reasons:
(a)	If an employee quits;
(b)	If an employee Is absent from work for three (3) consecutive days without having notified the Company in advance, where that is possible and received permission to be absent.
Such permission shall not be unreasonably withheld.
- 8 -
(c)	If an employee has been laid off and fails to report for work within 7 days after written notice to report to work has been sent by registered mail to his last address registered with the Company; provided that'when ah employee is recalled to work and does not report within 48 hours, the Company may recall the next employee in line, but he is subject to being displaced if the first employee recalled does report Within 7 days;
(d)	if an employee has been discharged for just cause;
SECTION 10 - APPLICATION OF SENIORITY TO REDUCTION
10.01	Whenever it is necessary to reduce the working staff in any department, the reduction shall be accomplished as follows:
10.02	The Company shall first lay off temporary or probationary employees, plant wide, if any, with the exception that temporary and probationary tradesmen, if any, whose skills continue to be required shall be retained.
Temporaries Or probationers who are laid off in a department shall not have any right to displace temporaries or probationers or other employees:in other departments.
10.03	If further reduction is necessary, the most ^ n junior employees shall be laid off in order
of departmental seniority.
Irt case of lay-off for a period of 24 months, unless this period has been extended because the employee was granted leave of absence for sickness or other reasons.
PTFORCFIN ^DEPARTMENT AND RECALLS
- 9 -
If it becomes necessary to layoff employees with five (5) or more years of seniority, for anticipated duration of one month or more, -j'^V'then such employees will be permitted, if M •/ qualified, to disolape more junior employees
(/S\ in other deparUlWIlS.
10.04	An employee on a seniority list in a department who, to avoid lay-off Is transferred to a temporarily vacant position in another department, shall after S working days in the new department be subject to humping by an employee of his regular department Mho has higher seniority and subsequently is laid off. Conversely, an employee who is on lav-off and is recalled to a temporarily vacant position in another department shall, after 5 working days in the new department be subject to bumping by an employee of his regular department who has higher seniority ana has subsequently been laid off.
10.05	One Shop Steward aesignatea by the Union in each department excent in the Bottle Shoo where there shall be two Shop Stewards, and the Plant Chairman shall be exempt from any lay-off so long as there is work In their respective departments which they can perform satisfactorily.
10.06	When it is necessary to shut down a machine for the purpose of overhaul, any available work in the department will be given to the most senior men displaced by such temporary reduction of operations if they are capable and willing to accept such assignment.
10.07	In all cases employees who are transferred to a different job as a result of the application of these seniority rules must be able to perform the job satisfactonly, and must accept the rate of the job to which they are assigned.
- 10 -
10,08,
When the working force of a department is increased following a lay-off, the employees will be recalled to their former jobs in , their departments from transfer or lay-off in order of seniority.
10.09 The Guaranteed Wage Plan, which is a
~ supplement to this Agreement, is intended to 'if provide assistance for those eligible ' employees who have one or more years of
seniority who are laid off as a result of the .AJ0C*- flh? application of above clauses, and is not to /	’ fcfX be,construed as authorization to alter
I existing practices.
SECTION 11 - TRANSFER OF SHtlORITT
11.01	When an employee is transferred from one department to another as a result of his selection for a posted job, he may return to his original department without loss of seniority (and displace a more junior employee if necessary) if his transfer is cancelled before he has worked 132 working days in his new department or if he is laid off from his new department before he has worked there for 132 working days, but for the purpose of determining nis ranking for lay-off purposes in his new department his seniority snal 1 be deenied to have been transferred at the time of his actual transfer.
11.02	When an employee is transferred from one department to another for any other reason his seniority position shall remain in the department from which he was transferred for a period of 132 working days. If the transfer remains in effect for. a period of 132 -working bays in a particular department, his seniority shall then be transferred to that department permanently, and he shall have no claim in any other department where he may have worked,
- 11 -
11.03	An employee who has been on a seniority list in any department and is promoted to a position not covered by this Agreement and later demoted, shall after 132 working days in any 12 month period in the department to which he has been assigned, be given seniority equivalent to his total service with the Company except if the demotion occurs before he has worked for 132 working days outside of the Bargaining Unit he may return to his original department and regain his total seniority without delay. This kind of demotion shall not take place during periods when seniority employees are laid off.
An employee who has never appeared on a seniority list in any department covered by this Agreement shall, if transferred into any such department, retain credit for his total service with the Company for the purpose of vacation and benefit entitlement and pension but such service shall not be counted towards seniority.
11.04	An employee who has been on a seniority list in any department as of January 1, 1985, and is promoted to a position not covered by this Agreonent and later demoted, shall, after 132 working days In any 12 month period in the department to which lw has been assigned be given seniority equivalent to his total service with the Company in the Bargaining Unit except if the-demotion occurs before he has worked for 132 working days outside of the Bargaining Unit he may return to his original department and regain his total seniority without delay.
SECTION 12 - UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE FORMS
12.01 An employee on being'laid off shall receive such documents as required by the Unemployment Insurance Commission to enable
- 12 -
him to make a claim for benefits or to accept a temporary job elsewhere during the lay-off. In either case, a regular employee shall retain all his rights and privileges under this Agreement, provided that he reports for work within seven days after written notification to report for work has been sent to his last address registered with the Company.
Section 13 - application of seniority to promotions ■------------or vacant remore-----------------------
13.01	Departmental
When a more desirable or higher rated job becomes vacant or a new job is established within a Department, it shall be filled where possible from within the Department-on the basis of qualifications, with preference to employees having the greatest seniority according to the Department Seniority List.
13.02	If there are no suitable persons within a department so that a vacancy is not filled; or as a result of a transfer or transfers as outlined in 13.01 there is a resultant vacancy; or there is need for additional employees, they will be obtained by first resorting to the lay-off list of that department. In the event that no person with sufficient qualifications can be selected from that list for the vacancy or position or if there are no employees on the departmental lay-off list then the following procedure will be effected.
13.03	Plant Wide
The vacancy or position will be posted throughout the bargaining unit for a period of five working days, and a copy of the posting shall be given to the Union Secretary and the Steward of the department where the vacancy or open position exists. The names
- 13 -
of the applicants will be supplied to the Secretary and the Steward following the posting.
13.04
9T
When considering which applicant shall be given a job which has been posted, the qualifications of the applicant shall be given primary consideration but if there is any choice to be made between two or more applicants having sufficient qualifications, the most senior applicant shall be given the position, but exceptions may be made in favour of an applicant who needs a transfer
because of hie health or physical condition.
Employees in thfBaTgaining tiin't having sufficient qualifications shall receive the job in preference to persons outside the bargaining unit.
13.OS	The Company may fill any position
temporarily, either before or after posting, but shall not be obligated to try out all applicants, nor is the Company obligated to fill all vacancies by promotions orjtransfer from within the bargaining-unit. For the purpose of this sub-section temporarily shall mean not more than 20 working days.
13.06	No posting shall be required for a vacancy resulting from vacations or illness. No posting shall be required for any vacancy or job which the Company announces is not expected to last for more than 15 working days, then it shall be posted as provided above.
13.07	Notwithstanding the above, the following jobs, Employee Store employee, employee’s Lunchroom Attendant, Janitor and Lunchroom Attendant - Utility Nan will not be considered departmental jobs and vacancies in them will be posted through the bargaining unit for a period of five (5) working days.
- 14 -
13.08	Regular employees wno are on vacation tor the total period during which a job is posted under 13.03 above, shall have two (2) calendar weeks after the expiry date of the posting in which to apply.
SECTION 14 - PLANT HOLIDAYS
14.01	The Conpany will observe the following Plant Holidays as outlined below:-
1990
New Year's Day January 2nd Good Friday Easter Monday Victoria Day Canada Day Civifc Holiday Labour Day Thanksgiving Day Christmas Day Boxing Day
	1988		1989		
Thur.	Deic.	31/87	Mon.	Jan.	2
Fri., Jan.		1/88	Tues.	Jan.	3
Frl.	Apr.	1	Frl.	Mar.	24
Hon.	Apr.	4	Mon.	Mar.	27
Hon.	May	23	Mon.	May	22
Fri.	July	1	Frh	June	30
Mon.	Aug.	1	Mon.	Aug.	7
Mon.	Sept,	5	Mon.	Sept.	4
Mon.	Oct.	10	■Mon.	Oct.	9
Mon.	Dec.	26	Mon.	Dec.	25
Tues,	. Dec.	27	Tues.	Dec.	26
Mon. Jan.1 (Tues.Jan.1/91) Tues.Jan.2 (Mon.Dec.31/90) Fri. Apr. 13
Mon., Apr. 16
Mon.' May 21
Mon; July 2
Mon. Aug. 6
Mon. Sept. 3
Mon. Oct. 8
Tues.Dec. 25
Wed. Dec. 26
And one additional day per year if declared by the Provincial Government.
- 17 -
SECTION IS - VACATION PLAN
15.01	Vacation Leave
An employee continuously absent from work for a period in excess of 104 weeks shall not be entitled to any vacation entitlement thereafter until further entitlement is earned by resumption of active service.
15.02	Near the conclusion of the vacation year, an employee with unused vacation entitlement who is then in receipt of Weekly Indemnity or Long Term Disability benefits and who-has not been continuously absent from work in excess
of weeks shall:
1.	cease to receive such benefits and be placed on vacation leave until his unused vacation entitlement is exhausted; and,
2.	resume receipt of disability benefits, if still qualified, once his vacation credits are exhausted;
An employee xtese sltaahWty benefits are
interrupted and described above, shall have his
’ *	'	■ ’ 1 '*ie number of
leave by the Company pursuant to this clause.
15.03 As of May 1 in each calendar year vacation
leave will be established for regular enployees according to the following scale:
(a) regular employees who have achieved seniority as of May 1st............... 1 week.
employees who have one more of seniority as of
vacation
2 weeks.
- 18 -
regular employees who have 3 or more years of seniority as of
May tet........3	weeks.
regular employees who have 8 or more years of seniority as of Hay 1st ....... 4	weeks.
regular employees who have 15 or more years of seniority as of May 1st ....... 5	weeks.
regular employees who have 20 or more years of seniority as of May 1st........6	weeks.
regular employees	who have 25 or
more years of seniority as of May 1st........7	weeks.
The initial establishment of the fourth, fifth, sixth and seventh week of vacation will be made with reference to the employee's
seniority anniversary date as though established as of May 1st.
15.04	Vacation Tine
Sumner vacation shall be limited to two consecutive weeks which shall be scheduled in the fourteen week period commencing on the second Monday in June. Additional vacation leave shall be scheduled during the slack periods outside the regular summer vacation period.
vacations are to be granted by seniority and within occupational groups where applicable.
All vacation leaves must be taken within 12
months after they have been established on any May 1st, and except as provided in Section 15.05, an employee is not to remain at work during a vacation leave.
- 19 -
Vacation Pay
For each week of vacation leave an employee shall receive forty (*0) hours' pay at his current hourly wage rate, except that with respect to the first two weeks of vacation taken after May 1st in any year payment shall be at the rate of ♦% of earnings during the 12 month period preceding May 1st if the employee has lost fifty days or more in the said 12 month period because of lay-off or other absence not due to illness or accident.
An employee who is to be paid on a percentage basis for his first two weeks of vacation may elect to remain at work and receive the 4% payment without taking any time off. Payment to be made when requested by the employee during the summer vacation.
Vacation Bonus'
In addition to the normal vacation pay provided by Section 15:05, a vacation bonus for certain employees will be established on May 1st of each year when vacation leaves are established, assuming that all such vacation leaves will be paid for on the basis of wage rates then in effect.
The bonus will be paid in a lump sum on the pay day prior to July 1st in each year except that any employees who take vacation subsequeht to May 1st and prior to July 1st may request their vacation bonus upon one week of advance notice.
As of May 1st of each year employees who have three, years or more seniority will be paid a vacation bonus of 20% of their normal vacation payment.
- 20 -
SECTION 16 - VACATION PAYMENT ON TERMINATION
16.01	All terminations shall be handled on the following basis:
(a)	Employees who had received their vacations earned as'of May 1st pric. to termination shall receive a pro rata payment of; 2*. 4*. 6*. 8*. ip*, 12* or t4*#as applicable of earnings from May 1st to date of termination.
(b)	Employees who had not received their earned vacations as of May 1st prior to termination shall receive their regular vacation pay in addition to a pro rata payment of 2%, 4*, 6%, 8*. 10*, 12* or 14* as applicable of earnings frod May 1st.
(c)	Temporary employees Shall be entitled only to vacation pay in accordance with provisions of: the Employment Standards Act.
On termihiavsuii, «■■■.	*°j.. .**»	any
vacation bonus to which he is entitled.
- 21 -
SECTION 17-REGULAR HOMS OF EMPLOYMENT AND OVERTIME
-------------commons--------------------------------
17.01	Watchmen shall be regularly scheduled to work on any five days including Saturdays and Sundays at straight time rates, but such employees shall be regularly scheduled to have two pre-arranged days off per week, and if- required to work on such regular days off they shall be paid at the rate of time and one-half for work performed on the first off day and dguhle-'ti/ne for ffori( performed on the second dff day. '
Watchmen 'shall also be entitled to receive tune and one-half for hours worked in excess of 8 hours per -shy anf double time in excess of 11 hours per day.
17.02	Employees in the Shipping, Receiving, loading, Checking, Maintenance and Brewing Department may Be scheduled regularly on a rotating shift basis. They wifi be scheduled regularly to work five consecutive days or shifts starting the first of such regular days or shifts on either Sunday, Monday or Tuesday.
Hours worked by such employees on Saturday will be paid for at the rate of time and one-hair.
If a sixth consecutive day is worked counting from the first of his regularly scheduled days, that day will be paid at the rate of time and one-half; and if a seventh consecutive day is worked counting from the first of his reaularlv scheduled days, that day will be paid for at the rate of-double time; but no day shall be considered a sixth or awanif cmnrea.'U'Wvt? d*r if,v is also one of the regularly scheduled days in the next following tour of duty in the following calendar week.
- 22 -
The Company will endeavour to give twenty-four (24) hours notice to employees who are required for overtime assignments planned for the 6th and/or 7th consecutive workday.
The Company retains its unqualified right to assign overtime work'without notice where required operationally.
.. on Sunday will always be paid for at
___ble time rate, and in no event shall an
employee be paid more than double time rate for any; work performed on Sunday.
Employees so scheduled will also be Paid at the rate of time and one-half for any work performed in excess of 8 hours on any one shift and double time in excess of 11 hours.
17.03	All other employees will be scheduled to work on regular shifts Mondays through Fridays at straight time.
Such employees are entitled to be paid at the rate of time and one-half for-hours worked.
(a)	in excess of 8 hours on any one shift, or
(b)	for any hours worked on Saturdays;
(c)	if any such employees are scheduled to work in excess of 11 hours per day or on any hours on Sunday from midnight to midnight they shall be entitled to be paid at the rate of double time.
An emplbyee will not be paid at the rate of double time and at the rate of time and one-half for the same hour worked.
- 23 -
17.04	It is understood and agreed that, with the exception of watchmen covered by Section 17.01, all other employees who commence a regular shift on Friday afternoon will be paid for hours worked at the rate of
(a)	straight time until 12:00 midnight;
(b)	time and one-half from 12:01 a.m.. Saturday until 11 hours have been worked from commencement of the shift:
(c)	double time for all hours worked in excess of eleven from the start of the shift.
17.05	Except in the Employee Store, the regular day shift shall commence between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 9:00 a.m. Any shift commencing after 9:00 a.m. and up to and including 5:00 p.m. shall be considered the afternoon shift and any shift commencing after 5:00 p.m. and before 6:00 a.m. shall be considered the midnight shift.
17.06	The schedule of the hours to be worked each day shall be posted at least one week in advance of the first of such scheduled days, and the scheduling shall orovide for at least 15 hours elapsed time between the close of each man's, shift and the start of his next shift, except where an employee is scheduled to change from one group of consecutive shifts to another. In this case the said elapsed time may be reduced to 7 hours.
17.07	Without changing schedules posted pursuant to the preceding paragraph an employee may be requested .to take over a work assignment different from that which was posted for him, provided he is given four (4) working hours notice of such change, and further provided that at least seven (7) hours time will elapse from the end of his posted assignment to that of his new assignment.
- 24 -
If these two conditions are not net the employee shall be paid at the rate of time and one-half for the first eight (8) hours worked by him on the changed work assignment.
17.08	Before effecting any general change in departmental Shift schedules, the Company will endeavour to advise the Onion in advance of such change.
17.09	The Company will endeavour to distribute overtime as equally as possible in the Maintenance Department to regular maintenance department employees by occupational skills group and that such information will be available to employees on request.
Overtime refused or an employee not available is considered overtime worked. The phrase "not available* shall te iAsatai to include unavailability due to periods of illness, MwC.B. claims, leaves of absence, or vacation but shall not include the unavailability of Union officials due to Union business.
SECTION 18 - REST PERIODS
18.01	There shall be two 15-ninute rest periods per day, one taken before and the other after the lunch period- An additional Oftquo..niiuute paid break shall be provided for those employees who currently receive a half-hour unpaid lunch period.
18.02	If any employee is scheduled to work at least 2 hours of overtime in addition to his regular shift he shall be allowed a further 15-minute rest period before starting the overtime period, and an additional 15-minute rest period for each two hours of overtime
thereafter provided the additional overtime is at least one hour or more in duration.
SECTION 19 - REPORTING ALLOWANCE
19,01
When an employee reports for work at th customary time scheduled for him without f being notified to the contrary and is Ay* assigned less than 4 hours of work he shaft/ be paid at least 4 hours at straight time rate.
19.02	It is understood that an employee may be assigned under such circumstances to work other than his regular assignment.
19.03	When an employee is called in for break-down or emergency work after leaving the plant following his regular shift and before
retuming'fcrwofK for his regular shift and
is assigned less than four hours of extra work outside of his regular shift hours, he shall be paid for at least four hours at the appropriate overtime rate in abortion to payment at straight time for any hours worked by him during his regular shift hours; except that if so called in within one hour before his regular starting time he shall be paid only for such extra time worked at the
appropriate	at straight
time for regular shift hours worked.
SECTION 20 - HEAL ALLOWANCE
Employees who are required to work as much as *3 hours overtime continuous with their regular shift shall be granted a meal allowance of at least $3,00,
SECTION 21 - PAY DAY
21.01	A regular weekly pay day shall be established by the Company, and the employees shall
receive^trifel r pay 1)U1lftig'‘me regular working hours of their shift.
21.02	Hie Company may pay by cheque or by cash, but in either case employees shall receive a
- 26 -
statement specifying the number of hours covered by the payment received, with particulars of deductions, and extras, if any.
SECTION 22 - RATES FOR TRANSFERRED EMPLOYEES
22.01	Employees who are transferred pursuant to the seniority provisions in order to avoid laying them off shall immediately take the rate for the job to which they are assigned.
22.02	Employees who are temporarily transferred to a vacant job for the convenience of the Company shall continue to receive their usual rate.
22.03	Employees who are temporarily transferred to a higjher rated job for the convenience of the Company shall receive the higgler rate for all hours worked on the job.
22.04	Employees who regularly work on jobs having two rates, if they work for 20 hours per week or more on the higher rated job they shall be paid at the higher rate for all of that week.
SECTION 23 - PROTECTIVE CLOTHING
23.01	Rubber boots, aprons and protective clothing shall be furnished to all men when and where necessary. A maximum of two sets of work clothing and 2 "T" shirts per year shall be issued without charge to all regular employees.
23.02	All regular employees not issued rubber boots as their regular footwear, will be provided at Conpany expense, with safety shoes/boots, to a maximum of $75.00 per year.
23.03	Employees who are not already provided with coveralls as part of their normal clothing issue and who are assigned to a complete
- 27 -
regular annual - line overhaul(s) will be provided with 1 pair of coveralls or uniform. Such coveralls and uniforms shall be returned to the Company at the completion of the overhaul(s).
SECTION 24 - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
24.01	The Company acknowledges the right of the Onion to select a reasonable number of Shop Stewards to assist employees in presenting complaints or grievances to the Company.
There shall be one Shop Steward recognized in each of the following departments: Brew House and Maintenance.
Two Shop Stewards shall be recognized in the Bottle Shop, one of whom shall normally work in the Shipping and Receiving Section. There shall be at least one additional alternate Steward in each of the said departments. The alternate Steward shall act in the absence of the regular Steward with respect to any grievance arising in his department.
24.02	The Union shall appoint a Shop Committee of not more than four employees from the Bargaining Unit or three employees from the Bargaining Unit plus one Executive member of the Union.
24.03	For the purpose of the grievance procedure, department heads in the various departments shall be as follows:
(a)	in the Brewing Department, the Head Brewer or in his absence his appointee;
(b)	for production employees in the Bottling Department, the Bottling Superintendent or in his absence his appointee; for non-production employees the Supervisor, Shipping and
- 28 -
Receiving of the Shipping and Receiving sections or in his absence the Foreman in charge;.
(c)	in the Maintenance Department, the Plant Engineer or in his absence his appointee;
(d)	in the Employee Store - the Supervisor of Plant Accounting, or in his absence, his appointee,
24.04	the procedure for handling complaints for grievances of employees shall be as follows:
An employee who has a complaint or question shall ordinarily discuss the. matter with his foreman, but if this does not satisfy him, or if for ahy reason his complaint is of such a nature that he prefers to refer it to his Steward first he may do so.
24.05	Step No. 1
If a complaint or grievance is referred by an employee to his Steward and the Steward considers that there may be a reasonable basis for the complaint or grievance, he shall present the matter to the foreman of the employee involved, within five (5) working days from the time such grievance arose or!became apparent, and shall endeavour to arrange a satisfactory settlement.
A grievance presented after the aforementioned time limit shall not be arbitrable. If such settlement cannot be arranged, the Steward shall then state the grievance in writing, in duplicate, and give the foreman 48 hours to provide a written answer. If this answer is not satisfactory, the next step of the procedure may be invoked.
- 29 -
24.06	Step No. 2
Two copies of the written grievance shall be forwarded to the Department Head by the Foreman at the request of the Steward. The Department Head will within five working days after receipt of the grievance confer with the Steward and such others as are necessary which may include the aggrieved employee, and attempt to arrange a settlement. If a settlement cannot be arranged within five working days, the Department Head shall state his disposition of the matter in writing, and the grievance shall be referred back to the Shop Committee as a whole for further consideration.
If the Shop Committee as a whole is not satisfied with the decision of the Department Head, Step No. 3 may be invoked.
24.07	Step No. 3
The Personnel Manager shall (within 5 working days unless mutually agreed to a further time extension) confer with the Shop Committee and one or two additional representatives of the Union's choice may be present if requested by either the Personnel Manager or the Shop Committee. If the matter is settled the settlement shall be stated in writing and Signed by the Personnel Manager and the Shop Committee. If it is not settled within two working days Step No. 4 may be invoked.
24.08	Note:	With respect to grievances involving
discharge, the grievance shall be put in writing by the Steward and Steps Nos. 1 and 2 shall be omitted, and the grievance shall be dealt with by starting with Step No. 3 herein.
- 30 -
24.09	Step No. 4
Hie grievance may be referred to arbitration upon the written request of either the Company or the Shop > Committee. In such case, the nsferrV* vast be made within sixty (60) calendar days of the third step reply.
24.10	The issue to be arbitrated shall be the written statement of the grievance and the answers of the various management officials who have previously dealt with the matter.
24.11	It is agreed that any issue to be arbitrated
shall be submitted to a single arbitrator ♦.*>?,t J s	tetter, to both parties. I n the
event agreement to an arbitrator cannot be reached, either party may apply to the Ontario Labour management Arbitration Commission for a list of five prospective arbitrators to be forwarded to each of the parties. Upon receiving the list, the parties have up to ten working days to accept an arbitrator from the list. If the acceptable person is unable to act and agreement cannot be reached on any of the remaining names on the list, the Registrar of the Commission will name an arbitrator different from those on the list and he will be accepted by both parties.
24.12	The decision of the arbitrator to be final and binding on the parties hereto.
24.13	The reasonable cost of such arbitration, including the fees and expenses, stenographic service, etc., of the arbitrator shall be equally shared by both parties to this Agreement.
SECTION 25 - NO-STRIKE CLAUSE
25.01	In view of the orderly procedure arranged for the settlement of complaints and grievances
- 31 -
it is agreed that there will be no strikes or lock-outs instigated, endorsed or condoned by either party to this Agreement.
25.02	It is also agreed that if any dispute arises between the parties to this Agreement concerning the general Policy of either the Union or the Company which affects the orderly administration of this Agreement that either party may invoke the grievance procedure and arbitration beginning with a conference at Step No. 3.
SECTION 26 PROBATIONARY WAGE RATES
26.01	The minimum hiring rate will be in accordance with the Schedule-set out in Section 27.01.
26.02	At the end of 22 working days this rate shall be increased by 5 cents per hour, and at the end of the probationary period the job rate shall be paid.
SECTION 27 - WAGE RATES
27.01 The following minimum wage rates for the
respective classification shall be effective from the dates indicated.
Job Classification
Ordinary Bottlers Machine Operators - Bottling Bottleshop shop Lab. Tech-nlcians
Lunchroom Attendant, Janitor Shipping and Receiving Employee Store Employees Brewing Department Employees Maintenance Mechanics "A?* Maintenance Mechanics "8" Mechanics Helper - Junior After i Year After 3 Years Carpenter
Oilers and Battery Changers Watchmen Probationary Temporary
Mechanic "A" - Probationary Mechanic “A" - Temporary
Effective		Effective	Effective
Apr. 1/88		Jan. 1/89	Jan. 1/90
17.35		18.00	18.70
17.40		18.05	18.75
17.45		18.10	18.80
17.35		18.00	18.70
17.40		18.05	18.75
17.37		18.02	18.72
17.40		18.05	18.75
20.37		21.13	21.95
19.21		19.86	20.56
17.35		18.00	18.70
17.44		18.09	18.79
18.20		18.85	19.55
19.96		20.72	21.54
18.35		19.00	19.70
17.25		17.90	18.60
10.50		10.89	11.31
9.06		9.40	9.76
15.83		16.42	17.06
14.58	A	15.13	15.72
- 33 -
27.02	It is understood that any Maintenance
Department employee may be assigned to any
type of maintenance work which is required but that in order for an enyloyee to be classified as Maintenance Mechanic "A" he must be qualified to do without supervision, and must regularly be assigned to work requiring the skill and experience of a qualified coppersmith or welder or electrician, machinist or pipe fitter.
27<03 In order to be classified as Maintenance
Mechanic MB*, an employee must be able to do the .general mechanical work ordinarily arising in the department, and when he has demonstrated that he has acquired the qualifications specified for Maintenance Mechanic "A" and is employed as such, he will be advanced to that category.
27*04 During overhaul periods certain employees may be assigned to work with Maintenance Mechanics to perform jobs requiring Mechanical skills. These employees will be paid the Mechanics Helper - after three years rate.
27.05	A Maintenance Mechanic Helper is an employee who assists a Maintenance Mechanic, either "A" or "8", and 4oes general labour work, pertaining to the Maintenance Department.
27.06	Shift Premiums
Hourly rates contained in schedules of wages of this Agreement shall be paid for all regular or day Shift work. The afternoon shift shall receive a premium of 55 cents per hour and the midnight shift shall receive a premium of 75 cents per hour. Effective January 1» 19$9^tlmena shift premium provisions stfch that the midnight shift premium payable shall be SD cents per hour.
- 34 -
27.07
Effective January 1, 1990, the midnight shift premium payable shall be 85 cents per hour. These premiums constitute separate fixed '' of pay and shall not be included in rates for the calculation of overtime 'or premium payments nor shall they be included in the calculation of pay for legal holidays if not worked.
The status of Tradesmen "B* and "Mechanics Helpers of 3 years or more service" will be reviewed by the Company annually. Those qualified for progression to higher status will be promoted. Those not qualified will be given reasons for the decision and they shall have recourse to the grievance procedure if they are not satisfied.
27.08	Any maintenance, painting or cleaning work which can be done to the satisfaction of the Company by employees who are laid off will be offered to employees with seniority who are laid off at the rate of wages applicable to "ordinary bottlers and day workers" so long as they do not displace employees from their regular jobs.
27.09	Cost of Living Allowance
A Cost of Living Allowance in a lunp sum payment will be paid to regular employees for all hours worked, including vacations and statutory holidays, in the period from January 1, 1990 to December 31, 1990, the first pay period following publication of the December, 1990 Consumer Price Index (1971 = 100), on the basis of $.01 per hour for each full .3 change in the Consumer Price Index, (1971 i 100) in the period from January 1, 1990 to December. 31, 1990 calculated by subtracting the Consumer Price Index (1971 « 100) for the month of December, 1989, after adding thereto 61 of the December, 1989 Consumer Price Index (1971 = 100), from the Consumer Price Index (1971 « 100) for the
SECTION 28
28.01	The Company shall supply adequate manpower on all operations in all departments at all times, and all employees shall perform a fair day's work.
28.02	If an employee is injured on the job or becomes so ill that he cannot complete his shift after reporting for work in good health he will be sent home and paid for the balance of the shift.
SECTION 29 - BEREAVEMENT ALLOWANCE
29.01	Should a bereavement occur in a regular // employee's immediate family (members of his^J household, parents, brothers, sisters, mother-in-law, father-in-law, daughter-in-law, son-in-law) he may request a bereavement leave, and he shall be granted such time off with pay as is reasonable under the circumstances to enable him to look after funeral arrangements or to attend the funeral. The extent of such leave shall be at the discretion of the Company, depending upon the time of the bereavement in relation to his regular time off, the distance to be travelled, etc. The general standard of bereavement time off shall be three (3) consecutive days.
29.02	Providing prior permission is received, in the event an employee attends the funeral of other in-laws not listed above or of a grandparent or grandchild on a regular scheduled work day, time off with pay shall be granted.
SECTION 30 - WELFARE PLAN


30.01	The Company will provide a Welfare Plan for all employees, particulars of which will be provided in a separate booklet.
- 36 -
SECTION 31 - PENSION PLAN
31.01	The Company will provide a Pension Plan for employees in the bargaining unit, details of which are the subject of a separate Memorandum of Agreement.
SECTION 32 - NOTICE BOARDS
32.01	A notice board shall be supplied by the Company, large enough to accommodate union notices for each Department.
32.02	Notices relevant to union activities can be posted if properly signed by authorized union personnel.
SECTION 33 -- TOOL ALLOWANCE
33.01	The Company agrees to replace any worn or broken tools or to upgrade tools which in its ipinion are necessary for use by regular tradesmen in the course of their employment, ip to a maximum of $255.00 in any calendar rear. Effective January 1, 1989, the tool replacement allowance'will provide a maximum >f $265100 per calendar year. Effective January 1,1990, this maximum will be increased to $275.00 per calendar year.
SECTION 34 - PICKET LINE
34.01	If an employee In the bargaining unit encounters a bona fide picket line in the course of his normal duties there shall be an immediate conference between the parties hereto before any decision is made by either party as to whether the picket line should or should not be respected.
SECTION 35 - JURY DUTY
35.01	Should an employee be called for Jury Duty or \	Crown Subpoenaed Witness, the Company will
<LjV JtyT supplement his jury pay or witness pay to
- 37 -
ensure that the employee will receive totally, monies equivalent to eight (8) hours of straight time pay at his regular rate for those days he would actually have been at work during his service as a juryman or witness.
SECTION 36 - DISCIPLINE
36.01	In the imposition of discipline, prior
disciplinary written warnings or reprimands will not be referred to after twelve (12) months; prior suspensions will not be referred to after thirty (30) months.

SECTION 37 - DUPLICATION OF BENEFITS
37.01	An employee shall not receive wages or other allowances such as holiday pay, vacation pay, weekly indemnity, LTD, Workers' Compensation, or other similar benefits from more than one source for the same day or part day.
SECTION 38 - SEVERANCE PAY
38.01	Persons hired as regular employees after
March 21,. 1988 who nave achieved seniority.
, f) ^ and who are not yet eligible for MsT participation in the Guaranteed Wage Plan will, upon permanent layoff, be eligible to receive an amount'Of Severance pay equal to O' one (l)jNpek of regular pay for each
■ complstda year of service as of the original date of Ilfs layoff. Upon receipt of such severance pay, the employee's employment is germinated and his seniority and other rights , under this Agreement are cancelled.
Is! - UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE PREMIUM REDATE
\
39.01	The employee's share of any Unemployment
Insurance Premium Rebate will be retained by the Company to offset a portion of the cost of the benefit improvements contained in this Agreement.
SECTION 40 - TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE
40.01	In the event that, during this Collective Agreement, the Company plans to introduce a major technological change which it anticipates will directly result in the permanent layoff of ten (10) or more regular employees, the following shall apply:
(a)	The Company will give the Union notice of such technological change at least sixty (60) days before the date on which the technological change is to be effected. After giving notice, the Company shall identify by job classification, the number of jobs to be displaced. The jobs to be displaced shall be grouped by the Company for the purposes of paragraph (c) herein.
(b)	The Company will meet and discuss with the Union the. re-deployment of the affected regular employees in accordance with the provisions of the Collective Agreement and the provisions as set out in the guaranteed Wage Plan (G.W.P.); and, in so doing, shall designste~the . employees to be permanently laid off';
(c)	During the first thirty (30) days of the notice period and prior to effecting any layoffs or separations under the Collective Agreement, the Company shall canvass employees eligible for special early retirement ("eligible employees") as to their willingness to elect special early retirement. Such eligible employees shall be approached within each group, determined in paragraph (a), in order of seniority and, if they choose to take special early retirement within the above thirty (30) day period and
- 39 -
actually retire within thirty (30) days thereafter, will receive a Technological Change Bonus (TCB)‘. The TCB will be determined by dividing the total amount of the 6WP separation pay entitlement of all the employees designated for permanent layoff in paragraph (b) above, by the total number of employees so designated. The number of special early retirees in any group who may receive the TCB will not exceed the number of jobs in that group which are to be permanently displaced by the technological change and, if a greater number of eligible employees in any group so elect to take special early retirement, the TCB will only be paid to the most senior of them.
40.02	If:
(a)	the number of eligible employees in any group who elect to take special early retirement is less than the number of jobs in that group to be permanently displaced by the technological change, or
(b)	the Company did not anticipate the number of layoffs but the introduction of the major technological change actually directly results in the permanent layoff of ten (10) or more regular employees,
the following provisions shall apply:
(i) the employees ultimately designated for permanent layoff hereunder, who are eligible for participation in the 6HP, will be permitted to elect separation and to terminate from the Company prior to their scheduled date of layoff. Those employees so electing and terminating from the Company shall be entitled to receive the amount of
separation payment calculated in accordance with Section 10 of the Guaranteed Wage Plan. If any of those employees who are eligible for participation In the Guaranteed Wage Plan were classified as regular employees prior to March 21, 1988, their separation payment calculation shall include an additional eight (8) weeks of benefit entitlement for the purposes of paragraph (b) of Section 10 of the Guaranteed Wage Plan;
(ill those employees designated for
permanent layoff hereunder who do not elect to terminate from the Company pursuant to the provisions of the preceding paragraph, and who are eligible for participation in the Guaranteed Wage Plan, shall receive the-benefits provided for under that Plan, In addition, if any employee who
is eligible for participation in the
Guaranteed Wage Plan was classified as a regular employee prior to March 21, 1988, he shall receive an additional eight (8) weeks of benefit entitlement under that Plan, subject to the following conditions:
(a)	an employee may use the additional eight (8) weeks Of entitlement only once during his employment, and notwithstanding Section 8 of the Plan, the eight (8) weeks can never be restored;
(b)	the additional eight (8) weeks of. entitlement shall be the first weeks
SECTION 41 - TERMINATION CLAUSE
41.01 (a)	This Agreement shall be in full force Sift i&WUliiMB automatically continue from year to pear for periods of one year-at a time, unless either party serves notice on the other party not more than ninety (90) days and not less than thirty (30) days prior to an annual expiry date stating that negotiations for amendments are iesired.
(b)	When such notice has been given by either party 'x/ani ty t/iis Agreement, the parties shall meet within fifteen (15) days from the giving of the notice or Within such further period as the parties may agree upon, and they shall bargain in good faith and make every reasonable effort to make a collective agreement.
(c)	A written list of the proposed changes shall be submitted at least thirty (30) days before the expiration date.
«)	All conditions of this Agreement are to remain in full force and effect until negotiations are completed and/or concildtion proceedings exhausted.
- 42 -
Signed on behalf of Component 325 by:
Signed on behalf of the Coaoenv bv:
Ronald rt. Ftes&nen

^tma
-	43 -
GUARANTEED WAGE PLAN
THIS AGREEMENT WADE THIS^ Sf'day of/ZsACr/KY , 1989.
BETWEEN:
CARLINS O'KEEFE BREWERIES OF CANADA LIMITED, TORONTO, ONTARIO
-	and -
CANADIAN UNION OF BREWERY AND GENERAL WORKERS - 325, COMPONENT OF N.U.P.6.E.
TORONTO, ONTARIO
WHEREAS the Company has entered into a Collective Agreement with the above named Union covering the Bargaining Unit in Toronto.
AND WHEREAS the said Parties have agreed to make this supplementary Agreement which is to be a supplement to the said Collective Agreement, and any grievances arising out of the administration of this supplement may be dealt with under the Grievance Procedure of the Collective Agreement.
NOW THEREFORE the Parties agree to the continuation of the Guaranteed Wage Plan as hereinafter set forth with such continuation to become effective on the 1st day of September, 1988 or on any later date on which approval for continuation has been received from the Federal Government holding that:
(3) Hie Plan meets the requirement of
Employment and Immigration Canada with respect to Supplemental Unemployment Benefit	PlariSt— -
(b)	Payments by the Company pursuant to this plan will be classed as deductible expenses for corporate income tax purposes, and,
- 44 -
(c)	The receipt by employees of the
benefits provided by this Plan will not disqualify such employees from receiving any part of the Unemployment Insurance Benefits to which they would otherwise be entitled.
1*	Purpose
The purpose of this Plan is to provide a method of guaranteeing income to certain employees who are laid off and, separation pay in certain cases.
2.	Eligibility for Participation in the Plan
Any regular hourly-rated employee having at least one year of seniority determined as of the September 1st immediately preceding his layoff shall be eligible to 'participate in this Plan.
Notwithstanding the above, employees not classified as regular employees prior to March 21, 1988 shall not be eligible to participate in this Plan until September 1st of the year following the employee’s attainment of three (3) years of seniority.
3V	Exceptions
This Plan has no application to and provides no benefits for:
(a)	Employees who have been laid off for disciplinary reasons and if such lay-off is questioned under the Grievance Procedure of the Collective Agreement final disposition of any grievance will determine the employee's status under the Plan.
(b)	EmgAngM* who. have been laid off
because of any strike, lockout, slowdown, picketing or other action by employees of this Company or by
- 45 -
employees of any other employer who are represented for collective bargaining purposes bv any of the Unions which were Dflrty to the Ontario Industry Memorandum of Agreement which led to the renewal of this Plan, or by any Local thereof or successor Unions thereto.
(c)	Employees who have been terminated because of specific direction or decree from any Governmental authority which has the effect of curtailing any of the Company's operations; unless
(1)	the direction or decree is the result of an illegal act committed by the Company or one of its representatives, or
(ii)	the direction or decree to change the method of beer distribution or beer retailing within the Province of Ontario.
(d)	Employees who have been laid off because of any act Of war or the hostile act or any foreign power or by any act of sabotage or insurrection or by any act of God.
(e)	Employees who are laid off and who have arranged with the Company to take leave of absence without pay for a specific period in lieu of their lay-off. These employees will be deemed to have opted out of the Plan for such period.
4.	Disqualification for Benefits
An employee who has been laid off and who would otherwise be eligible for participation in the Plan shall not receive any payments under the Plan for any
- 46 -
(i)	In which he has been on layoff and has ■failed to apply for U.l. benefits, or
in which he has been disqualified or disentitled from U.I. benefits by any reason other than serving a two (2)
Meek waiting period,
(ii)	In which he has been on layoff and has failed to keep himself registered for employment with the Canada Manpower Centre in those cases where such
registration is wcessary to qualify for U. I. benefits or for reduction of U. I. waiting period.
(iii)	In which he has failed or refused to accept employment deemed suitable for him by the Unemployment Insurance Commission.
(iv)	In which he has failed to accept and report for any appropriate work assignment of at least one normal working day unless excused for reasonable cause.
(v)	In which he is in receipt of a benefit provided by the Company's insured Weekly Indemnity or Long Term Disability Plans.
(vi)	After he has become entitled to receive any pension under the Company or Government Pension Plan.
(vii)	In respect of which he is qualified for compensation from the Worker's Compensation Board for any compensable accident or illness.
5.	Definitions
For the purposes of this Plan:
- 47 -
"Wages" shall mean actual earnings for work performed and vacation pay, payment for any leave of absence with pay granted, e.g. jury duty, bereavement pay, payment for Statutory Holidays and call-in pay.
"Week" shall mean the Company's payroll week. "Compensated and available hours"' means as applied to any particular week for any employee:
{a) A11 hours worked by the employee for the Company or for any other employer in such week, plus
(b)	All hours not worked by the employee in such week but for which he receives wages from any employer, plus
(c)	All hours scheduled in such week for an employee who is not on layoff and which be has not worked for any reason other than lack of work, plus
(d)	All hours scheduled in such week for an employee who is on layoff and which he has not worked for any reason other than lack of work after being given reasonable notice according to the established practice of the Company that such scheduled hours were available to be worked by him.
"Week of layoff" means a week in which the employee's compensated and available-hours are less than forty (40).
6.	Benefits Provided for laid Off Employees
Subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan as herein set out each eligible employee who is laid off from the Bargaining Unit shall receive in addition to any wages earned in the week a benefit from the Plan for each week of layoff calculated by determining the
product of items 1t 2 and 3 below ana aeaucting trom
sucit pnjdtart the sun tfi lSwii 4 below.
(t) Seventy percent (70%) for eligible employees as hereinabove defined.
(2)	The straight time hourly rate of the employee in effect as of time of layoff.
(3)	The excess of forty (40) over the compensated and available hours of the employee.
(4)	The actual benefit, if any, for which such employee is eligible under the Unemployment Insurance Act for such week.
7.	Welfare Benefits During Layoff
An employee who is laid off continues to participate in the Welfare Flan of the Company applicable to employees in his Bargaining Unit to the end of the month following the last month in which he has worked in the Bargaining Unit, or until the end of the last month during which he has drawn a benefit under this Plan, whichever is the later. Welfare Plan for the purpose of this section does not include the Pension Plan or the Company’s insured Weekly indemnity and Long Term Disability Plans which cover only indemnity for wages actually lost because of illness or accident.
An employee on layoff who, pursuant to the above, has ceased to participate in the Welfare Plan is restored to participation immediately upon completion of eight (8) hours work in the Bargaining Unit.
8.	Duration of Benefits
The maximum benefit entitlement of an employee at any time shall not exceed that benefit established in accordance with Table 'A1. However, the employee’s actual benefit entitlement will be less than the
- 49 -
maximum benefit entitlement if he has used any benefits and has not subsequently restored them.
Weeks of benefits are restored based upon the formula of 1/10th of a week for each eight (8) full hours during which the employee earned wages from the Company up to the employee's maximum benefit entitlement set out in Table 'A' below. No credits towards future benefit entitlements are allowed for wages earned during any period in which the employee is already entitled to the maximum benefits set out ir Table 'A' .
TABLE “A"
Completed years of Seniority Determined as of the September 1st immediately preceding _______his layoff
15 Years or more 10 Years or more 5 Years or more 4 Years or more 3 Years or more 2 Years or more 1 Year or more
Maximum Benefit Entitlement
78 Weeks of benefits 65 Weeks of benefits 52 Weeks of benefits 45 Weeks of benefits 95 weeks of benefits 25 Weeks of benefits 15 Weeks of benefits
- 51 -
The maximum number of weeks of benefits which an employee may use (hiring any twelve (12) month period commencing September 1st shall not exceed his Maximum Benefit Entitlement determined as of that September 1st in accordance with Table 'A' above.
Each eligible employee’s weeks of benefits shall be decreased by one week for each week in respect of which he is on layoff and in receipt of benefits for more than thirty-two (32) hours; and by 4/5thS of one week for each week in which he is on layoff and in receipt of benefits for more than twenty-four (24) hours; and by 3/5thS of one week for each week in which he is on layoff and in receipt of benefits for more than sixteen (16) hours; and by 2/5th$ of one
week for ear)? week in which he is on layoff and in
receipt of benefits for more than eight (8) hours; and by 1/5ttl of a week in which he is on layoff and in receipt of benefits for eight (8) hours or less: and his weeks of benefits shall also be decreased by one week for each week in which he is on layoff but was disqualified for any of the reasons set out in subsections (i), (ii), (iii). and (iv) of Section 4.
9.	Deductions
Any payment made under this Plan shall be subject to any deductions required by Federal, Provincial or Municipal authority ITby the provisions of the Collective Agreement, or by voluntary authorization from the employee concerned.
10.	Separation Pay
An employee shall be eligible for a separation payment as set forth belOWjf on any date during hiS lay off the hours scheduled for him during the previous twelve (12) consecutive months were less than fifty percent (50%) of normal full time hours if he is not eligible for any Company arfimnmwtpension or for benefits under the Company's insured Weekly Indemnity or Long Tens Disability Plans.
In special cases where a laid off employee appears to have little prospect of recall to regular work within a period of six months he may request immediate termination and severance pay, and with the concurrence of the Cotqpany and the Union this may be granted notwithstanding the eligibility clause above.
An employee eligible for a separation payment hereunder must aDDlV for it not later than six months after he first becomes eligible therefor, otherwise his ridit to such payment shall be cancelled. Notwithstanding the above if the Company permanently discontinues an operation, an employee laid off as a result thereof must apply for and shall receive any separation pay to which he is entitled without waiting the six mouth's period.
If an employee applies for and accepts a separation payment hereunder, his employment is terminated and his seniority and other rlohts under the Collective Bargaining Agreement are c&celled.

The amount of the separation payment of an eligible employe^-shai^ be equal to the sum of:
(a)	Ghe	t&rhVftcfs (computed on the basis
jbfjWsrbOhrly rate in effect as of time of lay ^*7 offfmultiplied by the number of his completed years of seniority as of the last day he act i veil worked In' the Bargaining Unit, plus	I Q
(b)	$95.00 multiplied by a number equal to the number Ipsg.
of unused weeks of benefit entitlement which an	'
employee has to his separation. However,
applies for separation . „ _______
becomes eligible therefor Shall have the $95.00 supplemented by an additional $30.00.
The Company shall be authorized to deduct from any separation pay payable to an employee hereunder thi amount of any Guaranteed Wage Plan payment made to such employee which the employee was not entitled to receive.
-sa-
11.	Applications
Employees shall be required to observe such rules and follow such procedures and make such reports and applications as shall be prescribed by the Company after consultation with the Union. The willful falsification of any fact material to the determination of an employee’s benefit rights under the Plan shall result in the forfeiture of any benefit rights he may have under the Plan for a period of twelve (12) months subsequent to the discovery of such falsification, and this shall not preclude any other disciplinary action which may be imposed subject to the Grievance Procedure of the Collective Agreement.
12.	Reporting
The Company will make periodic reports to the Union weekly while employees are laid off and receiving benefits under the Plan and quarterly if no employees are on layoff, giving the Union complete information as to the number of employees who have been laid off, the duration thereof, the payments made to each individual under the Plan, the number of ineligible and disqualified employees, and such other similar information as may be relevant.
13.	Duration of Agreement
This Agreement shall continue until August 31, 1991.
During negotiations for renewal of the relevant Collective Agreement, the Union is free to request amendments to this Agreement which shall also be part of such negotiations, but on the understanding that any amendments to this Agreement will not take effect any earlier than September 1, 1991.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF tlje parties hereto have affixed their signatures this 7 & ** day of FenizugAV , 1989.	J
- 54 -
Signed on behalf of Component 325:
Signed on behalf of the Company:
Ronald H. Rtasanen
9m
- 55 -
MEMORANDUM RE: PENSION PLAN BENEFITS
The following Pension Plan benefits will be effective as of January 1, 1988 for all regular employees and
for newly eaplwes when they attain seniority
following that date.
1.	Scope and Coverage
This Memorandum covers all seniority employees who are represented in collective bargaining by1 the Union.
Each participate employee will receive a certificate Showfnq that he has been registered and enrolled under the Plan.
The terms, conditions and funding arrangements of said Plan will be revised in such manner and detail as in the sole opinion of the Company are necessary or desirable to effectively and fully implement the understandings herein enumerated.
2.	Benefits Accrued up until December 31, 1973
In respect to benefits actually earned and accrued up to and including December 31, 1973 by the employees who were covered by the former Pension Plans introduced July 2, 1937 and August 1, 1962,‘the latter being amended January 1>
1965, January 1, 1966, July 16, 1968, September 4, 1968 and April 20, 1971, it is understood and agreed that such benefits shall continue to the credit of the individual esployee and to be exercisable in accordance with the terms and conditions applicable dS of December 31, 1973, unless specifically modified or amended by this document.
56 -
3.	Eligibility for Benefits from January 1, 1974
As and from January 1, 1974 those employees who were participating members of the Pension Plan prior to January I, 1974 shall automatically be eligible fne-ait-bMPfU'-ecemtrip a' .hereinafter
outlined on a non-contributory basis.
As and from January 1, 1974, all other present and future seniority employees shall be eligible for benefits accruing effective from the first day of the month following or coincident with the completion of 132 days of work in any twelve month period for a temporary employee or after 90 days of work in any twelve month period for a probationary employee.
4. Cost of Benefits
2- V
5.
The cost of providing all pension benefits : accruing from January 1, 1974 shall be borne by?
Credited Service	° ! v
Credited service shall be computed for each calendar year on the basis of one tenth (1/10) of a year's credited service for each 180 hours actually worked or for which wages have been paid. It is undert/jyjri, that wages shall mean actual earnings for work performed and vacation pay, payment for any leave of absence such as, for example, jury duty, Crown Subpoenaed witness, bereavement pay, payment for statutory holidays, call-in pay and any period for which an employee is absent from work and in receipt of Workers' Compensation or Weekly Indemnity payments.
Earned credits in any calendar year shall in no case exceed one year of credited service and shall be calculated to the nearest one tenth (1/10) year of credited service.
- 57 -
Employees who are or become totally or permanently disabled and qualify for benefits . under the insured Long Term Disability Plan shall continue to accrue credited service and pension credits at the rate of pension accrual in effect at the commencement of Long Term Disability payments with service computed as outlined in the previous paragraph. Such credits shall continue and Long Term Disability payments will only be made until he recovers, dies, or attains his normal retirement date and retires under the Plan.
6. Normal Retirement Pate
The normal retirement date shall be the first day of the month coinclderrt.with or next following the employee's 6§]JMmthday and the earned and accrued retirement income referred to in Section 2 hereof shall be payable commencing on that normal retirement date.
7. Pension Payable on Normal Retirement
The amount of basic pension benefits payable for an employee who has reached normal retirement date shall be the amount as provided in Section Two (2) plus a basic pension benefit calculated in accordance with the following schedule.
- 59
8.	Supplemental Pension Benefit
I For members who retire on or after January 1, 1988, the following shall apply:
(a)	Minimum Pension at Normal Retirement:
A member retiring at age 65 with at least 30 years of credited service is entitled to a lifetime supplement being the amount required to be added to the member's accrued pension and the full unreduced Canada Pension Plan Retirement benefits determined at the date of his retirement to produce a minimum monthly pension of $1,440.00.
If a member retires at age 65 with less than 30 years of credited service, then, in the calculation of the lifetime supplement, the full unreduced Canada Pension Plan retirement benefits and the normal retirement minimum are prorated by the ratio of the number of years of credited service to 30 years.
(b)	Special Early Retirement:
0
A member retiring after having attained age 60 with at least 30 years of credited service is entitled to an immediate accrued pension equal to the amount of accrued pension to his credit for service to date of early retirement, without reduction for the earlier date of retirement.
This pension will be supplemented by an amount necessary to provide a monthly pension of $1,354.00, from Company Plans payable until the member would have first become eligible to receive unreduced Canada pension Plan Retirement benefits.
Thereafter, the supplement shall be recalculated as the amount required to be added to the member'/	pension wrf, the
- 60 -
full unreduced Canada Pension Plan Retirement benefits determined at the date of his retirement to produce a monthly pension of $1*440.00; which supplement shall become his lifetime supplement.
In addition to the recalculated lifetime supplement, a member who retires before December 31* 1986 will be paid a further supplement, if necessary, to produce a total pension from Comoenv Plans eaual to the Pension that would be payable if the member were then retiring at normal retirement, based on the normal retirement minimum pension and full unreduced Canada Pension Plan retirement benefit both determined as of that date, his accrued pension including any escalation thereof and his related credited service. This further supplement shall then be added to and form part of the member's lifetime supplement.
II For members who retire on or after January I,
1989* the following shall apply:
(a) Minimum Pension at Normal Retirement:
>v ■
A member retiring at age 65 with at least 30 years of credited service is entitled to a lifetime supplement being the amount required to be added to the member's accrued pension and the full unreduced Canada Pension Plan Retirement benefits determined at the date of his retirement to produce a minimum monthly pension of $1,500-00..
If a member retires at age 65 with less than 30 years of credited service, then, in the calculation of the lifetime supplement, the full unreduced Canada Pension Plan retirement benefits and the normal retirement minimum are prorated by the ratio of the number of years of credited service to 30 years.
- 61 -
(b) Special Early Retirement:
A member retiring after having attained age 60 with at least 30 years of credited service is entitled to an imnediate accrued pension equal to the amount of accrued pension to his credit for service to date of early retirement, without reduction for the earlier date of retirement.
This pension will be supplemented by an amount necessary to Provide a monthly pension of $1,400.00, from Company Plans-payable until the member would have first become eligible to receive unreduced Canada Pension Plan Retirement benefits.
Thereafter, the supplement shall be recalculated as the amount required to be added to the member's accrued pension and the full unreduced Canada Pension Plan Retirement benefits determined at the date of his retirement to produce a monthly pension of $1,500.00; which supplement shall become his lifetime supplement.
In addition to the recalculated lifetime supplement, a member who retires before December 31, 1989 will be paid a further supplement, if necessary, to produce a total pension from Company Plans eaual to the pension that would be payable if the member were then retiring at normal retirement, based on the normal retirement minimum pension and full unreduced Canada Pension Plan retirement benefit both determined as of that date, his accrued pension including any escalation thereof and nis related credited service. This further supplement shall then be added to and form part of the member's lifetime supplement.
Ill For members who retire on or after January 1, 1990, the following shall apply:
(a) Minimum Pension at Normal Retirement:
A member retiring at age 65 with at least 30
- 62 -
years of credited service is entitled to a lifetime supplement being the amount required to be added to the member's accrued pension and the full unreduced Canada Pension Plan Retirement benefits determined at the date of his retirement to produce a minimum monthly pension of $1,560.00.
If a member retires at age 65 with less than 30 years of credited service, then, in the calculation of the lifetime supplement, the full unreduced Canada Pension Plan retirement benefits and the normal retirement minimum are prorated by the ratio of the number of years Of credited service to 30 years.
(b) Special Early Retirement:
A member retiring after having attained age 60 with at least 30 years of credited service is entitled to an immediate accrued pension equal to the amount of accrued pension to his credit for service to date of early retirement, without reduction for the earlier date of retirement.
This pension will be supplemented by an amount necessary.to provide a monthly pension of $1,439.00, from Company Plans payable until the member would have first become eligible to receive unreduced Canada Pension Plan Retirement benefits.
Thereafter, the supplement shall be recalculated as the amount required to be added to the member's accrued pension and the full unreduced Canada Pension Plan Retirement benefits determined at the date of his retirement to produce a monthly pension of $1,560.00; which supplement shall become his lifetime supplement.
In addition to the recalculated lifetime supplement, a member who retires before
- 63 -
December 31, 1990 will be paid a further supplement, if necessary, to produce a total pension from Company Plans equal to the pension that would be payable if the member were then retiring at normal retirement, based on the normal retirement minimum oension and full unreduced Canada Pension Plan retirement benefit both determined as of that date, his accrued pension including any escalation thereof and his related credited service. This further supplement shall then be added to and form part of the member's lifetime siqiplement.
9.	Escalation of Benefits
On January 1, 1975 and every January 1 thereafter, an employee retiring after January 1, 1974 who reaches nis normal retirement date will have his accrued pensions only (excluding any supplement) escalated to a maximum if 28. based on the 12 month percentage increase of ffieConsumer Price Index as of previous September 1. An employee whose normal retirement date is January 1 will not receive any accrued pension escalation until the following January 1.
For members who retire on or after January 1, 1988, the member's actual pension payment including lifetime supplement, if any, shall be increased after January 1 commencing with the January 1st following the member's actual retirement date, by the percentage set out in the existing pension escalation formula.
Any spousal pension will also be escalated on the same formula, with the first increase occurring on the January 1st following the member's date of death.
10.	Other Early Retirement
A member retiring on or after January 1, 1988 and after having attained age 55 but prior to having
qualified for Special Early Retirement or 85 point retirement is entitled to an immediate accrued pension equal to the amount of accrued vested pension to his credit for service to date of early retirement reduced by one-third of 1* per month (i.e. 4% per year) for each month his retirement precedes age 55.
In addition, such member shall be entitled to a lifetime supplement calculated as if the member had attained age 65 on his date of retirement but using his current unreduced vested accrued pension and his related credited service, the full unreduced Canada Pension Plan Retirement benefit and the normal retirement minimum pension all determined as of the member's actual date of retirement.
The lifetime supplement so calculated will then be reduced by one-third of 1% per month (i.e. 4* per year) for each month his retirement precedes age 65.
Eighty-five (85) Point Retirement
A member retiring on or after January 1, 1988 and after having1 attained age 55 and whose age plus years of credited service total 85 or more (but prior to having qualified for Special Early Retirement) is entitled to an immediate accrued pension equal to the amount of accrued vested pension to his credit for service to date of early retirement reduced by one-third of Itper month (i.e. 4* per year) for iatirwuiiWi " —^ retirement precedes the date the member would have become eligible for Special Early Retirement or the normal retirement date, whichever first occurs.
In addition, such member shall be entitled to a lifetime supplement calculated as if the member had attained age 65 on his date of retirement but using his current unreduced vested accrued pension and his related credited service, the
- 65 -
full unreduced Canada Pension Plan Retifement benefit and the normal retirement minimum pension all determined as of the member's actual date of retirement.
The lifetime supplement so calculated will then be reduced by one-third of 1% per month (i.e. W per year) for each month retirement precedes the date the member would have become eligible for Special Early Retirement or the normal retirement date, whichever first occurs.
12. Partial Disability Retirement
An employee who has attained age 50 and completed 10 years of service and becomes partially disabled, may retire and receive a pension equal to his full accrued pension plus a supplementary benefit of $7.00 per month multiplied by the nunber Of years Of credited service up to a maximum of 30 years.
The supplement is payable until eligible to receive either a statutory disability benefit or unreduced Canada Pension Plan Retirement benefits.
In addition, such member who retires on or after January 1, 1988 shall be entitled to a lifetime supplement commencing on the date he first becomes eligible to receive unreduced Canada Pension Plan Retirement benefits. This supplement shall be calculated as if the member had attained age 65 on his date of retirement but using his current unreduced vested accrued pension and his related credited service, the full unreduced Canada Pension Plan Retirement benefits and the normal retirement minimum pension all determined as of the member's actual date of retirement.
13.
Termination of Employment
(Vesting)
A member's accrued pension and lifetime
- 66 -
supplement shall comp completion of two (2)
letely vest upon the years of credited service.
14. Spouse's Option
*) Joint and Survivor Pension:
A member with an eligible spouse who takes Normal, Special Early, 85 Point, Disability, or Early Retirement on or after January 1, 1988, shall receive a Joint and Survivor
Jension unless the persons entitled to the oint and Survivor Pension deliver to the Plan Administrator a written waiver of such entitlement in the prescribed form within the period of twelve months immediately preceding the commencement of payment of the pension benefit.
Unless waived, the member's accrued pension and lifetime supplement, if any, shall be reduced by 10X during his lifetime. Upon his death, his eligible surviving spouse snail receive a pension of 602 of the member's reduced accrued*pension and lifetime supplement, if any, (subject to actuarial reduction if the member's spouse is more than 10 years younger than the member.)
Death Before Retirement:
If a member dies on or after January 1 1988 and after having met the existing eligibility requirements for a pre-retirement spousal pension, his spouse shall receive an immediate pension equal to the existing percentage of the accrued pension to his credit for service prior to the date of his death under the existing pre-retirement ; spousal pension provisions, plus the same percentage of his lifetime supplement.
foe lifetime supplement will be calculated as if the member had attained age 65 on his date
- 67 -
of death, but using his current unreduced accrued pension and his related credited service, the full unreduced Canada Pension Plan Retirement benefit and the normal retirement minimum pension all determined as of the member's actual date of death.
If a member dies before his pension commences and the soouse is not entitled to a pension as explained in the preceding paragraphs, any contributions required to be paid by the member prior to January 1, 1974 with interest to the date of death will be paid to the designated beneficiary or failing such, to tie Humber t eilete.
The death benefit paid above shall not be less than that provided under existing pension legislation.
15.	Continuation of Benefits after Retirement
Employees eligible for basic pension benefits and lifetime supplement, if any, derived from employment under the non-contributory plan after January 1, 1974 shall have said benefits continue as Ingas they live. Benefits for employment under the contributory plan prior to January 1> 1974 shall be for life or a minimum of 36 months, whichever is the longer.
16.	Application for Benefits
If an employee is eligible to receive either unreduced Canada Pension Plan or disability benefits whichever are applicable and does not apply for or loses part or all of such benefits through delay in applying for them, or other act or failure to act, the employee shall be deemed to be in receipt of such benefits for purposes of calculating the amount of any supplement.
i/. miration
This Penslw •tefflfiMnriim. wi.ll he. tnx three years
and effective January 1, 1988.
- 68 -
WELFARE BENEFITS
The following changes will be effective on the dates shown for each Itea.
1. Life Insurance and Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance_____________________•
Effective April 1, 1988, Life Insurance and Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance shall be increased to provide $32,000.00 insurance coverage for employees actively at work on that day.
Effective January 1, 1989, the insurance coverage will be increased to $33,000.00 for employees actively at work on that day.
Effective January 1, 1990, the insurance coverage will be increased to $3A,000).00 for 'employees actively at work on that day.
loyees not actively at work on the above named days shall only be provided increased insurance coverage upon their return to active: employment.
Dental Plan
Basic; Services
The maximum reimbursement for basic services shall be $650.00 per year.
Restorative and Orthodontic Services
Effective Apri1 1, -1988, the combined lifetime maximum for Restorative and Orthodontic Services shall be $3,250.
The increase shall only apply to eligible expenses incurred after April 1, 1988.
- 69 -
Effective January 1, 1989, such lifetime aaxioum shall be increased to $3,500. The increase.shall only apply to eligible sxpenses Incurred after January 1, 1989.
iffective January 1, 1990, such lifetime naxiraum shall be Increased to $3,750. The increase shall only apply to eligible sxpenses Incurred after January 1, 1990.
3. Major Medical
The expense benefits provisions of the Major Medical Plan will provide an annual reinstatement of up to $2,500.00 at the beginning of each calendar year if required to restore the maximum to the level of $j0,000.00.
Weekly Indemnity
"T"“"r?d Hr"1'1 v T"rf°irp;+y and Long Term
~tsahl | itv..Plans;	•rnmmmmmum
''case of sickness or any non-occupational accident, a weekly benefit amounting to 70* of wages (hourly rate x 40) in effect at any time during the 26-week period will be paid to eligible employees who are off Work and under the care of a doctor. Payments will commence on the first day, if disability is due to an accident, arid on the fourth day, if due to sickness, and will continue up to a maximum of 26 weeks for any one period of disability.
Where it is necessary for an employee to have dental surgery, claims under the Weekly Indemnity Plan will be recognized and payments will commence on the fourth day and will continue up to a maximum of two weeks for any such claim upon the receipt of the proper certification by a dental oral surgeon.
- 70 -
5.
An insured Long Term Disability Plan will begin at the end of the 26-weelc period of disability or at the end of a continuous period of 26 weeks during which an employee has received Worker's Compensation payments and continue until recovery or normal etirement date, whichever occurs first. The lan will provide payment of 66 2/3% of wages _hourly rate x 40} in effect at any time during the first 78 weeks of the Long Tens Plan. Following such period the payment will he 66 2/3% of wages (hourly rate x 40) in effect at the end of the said 78-week period. The Long Term Disability Plan and the Weekly Indemnity Plan will be of a standard nature which will include an offset clause for integrating statutory payments such as Canada Pension Plan and Unemployment Insurance, and in the case of Long Term Disability, will also include an offset clause for integrating Worker's Compensation.
The Company is prepared to provide the necessary monies to build up the pension of persons -receiving benefits from Long Term Disability Plan at the rate of pension
accrual at the cormenceraent of disability.
Commencing after the 26th week, and until 104 weeks from the date of disability, the eligibility for continuance of the coverage shall be inability to do a regular job available in the Bargaining Unit. Starting at the 105th week, eligibility for benefits will depend on the employee's ability to perform duties at any job for any employer for which he is reasonably qualified by training, education or experience to perform.
Sick Leave
Effective each January 1, all seniority employees at work will be credited with Six
(6) days of Sick Leave at the base hourly rate. These days are to be used to OffsSt loss of pay caused by occasional illnesses of up to three normal working days which are not covered by the Weekly Indemnity Benefit Plan. Any unused portion of Sick Leave will be paid totbe-employee in cash on the last pay day before Christmas.
Employees who attain seniority during the year, shall be credited at one half their then existing daily basic wage rate, for each full month worked from the date they attain seniority.
Regular employees who have been absent for the full 12 month period shall not be entitled to sick leave credits.
Employees who terminate their employment or retire during the calendar year, shall receive Sick Leave benefits prorated at one-half their then existing daily basic wage rate for each full month worked from January 1 to their termination date less any sick days taken during this period.
Welfare Coverage For Pensioners
Future pensioners who retire under Section 8 of the Pension Memorandum, having attained age 60 and who no longer are gainfully employed in any occupation by withdrawing from the work force, shall have continued at Company expense the following:
1.	Life Insurance - $4,000.00
2.	O.H.I.P. (until age 65).
3.	Major Medical Plan.
February 15, 1988
LETTER OF UNDERSTAM)IH6
Notwithstanding Section 2 (Eligibility for Participation in the Plan) of the 6.W.P. employee? classified as probationary employees on the date of ratification, shall be eligible to participate in the Plan provided they achieve seniority and have at least one (lj year of seniority determined as of the September 1st immediately preceding layoff.
Notwithstanding Section 40.02, (technological change) the additional eight (8) weeks of benefit entitlement in subparagraphs (i) and (ii) shall also apply to employees who were classified as probationary 'employees oh March 21, 1988 provided they meet all the other requirements of the technoligical change Section.
- 73 -
February 15, 1988
Mr. 6. Greco, President Component 325 One Carlingview Drive Etobicoke, Ontario M9W 5E5
Dear Mr. Greco:
This letter will confirm our understanding reached during negotiations. It is understood that during the annual overhaul periods in the maintenance department,
where SaturdayJk&tfAxre	?*r iwerhaul work,
regular bottling maintenance mechanics MA”s' who are not assigned to overhaul, will be offered this OVertiMe work before the Temporary Mechanic's Helpers.
Yours truly.
R. M. Plesanen
Vice President Brewing Operations
- 74 -
February 15* 1988
Mr. 6* Greco President Component 325 One Carlingviw Drive Etobicoke, Ontario H9W 5E5
Dear Mr. Greco:
As the result of discussion between the Company and Component 325, it is agreed that the following policy with regard to vacations will be put into effect following ratification of the Collective Agreement.
1. Deferment of Sumner Vacation (Block Vacation)
On the first working day of each calendar year, a notice will be posted on all bulletin boards for 2 weeks advising employees that it is permissible to forego their summer vacation and take that year's entire vacation entitlement in one continuous period outside the regular summer vacation time. Those desirous of doing so are to list their names. In order of seniority and within occupational groups, where applicable, the Company will approach those who have applied and will complete and post a schedule in conformity with the followii^ two paragraphs.
With the exception of the Maintenance Department, the period will commence on the first Monday following September 15 and end on the last Friday prior to the second Monday in June the following
far. In the case of the Maintenance Department, will be from September 15 to December 31, and from April 1 to the last Friday prior to the second Monday in Jime.
cont../2
- 75 -
2 -
Hie following is the maximum number of men per week to be granted this privilege and, once confirmed, cannot be revoked by either the employee or the Company.
Shipping and Receiving 2
Keaaing	l
Employees waiving summer vacation and taking all their vacation in the off season cannot be Dunned from their preferred time by someone of higher' seniority who has had simmer vacation.
The Company agrees to notify all applicants by January 31 St whether they have confirmed dates, so that anyone who is unsuccessful in obtaining “Block Vacation” can still apply for regular summer vacation.
Each department, in calculating the total number of employees normally granted vacation time off each week, will include in the count those who have been given advance confirmation of their total vacation entitlement in the off season, l.e., “Block Vacation”
2. Early Service Vacation and Regular Summer Vacation
From February 1st to February 21st of each year, the “early service weeks" and regular Sumner vacation schedule will be posted. Employees will indicate their preference of dates (hiring that time period.
cont../3
Bottling
Brewing
Maintenance
6
2
3
- 76 -
- 3
Frost February 22nd to March 15th the Company will stake the selection, in accordance with present practice. The number of employees allocated on vacation at any given time cannot be exceeded. This stay result in junior employees having to make a second choice. The final approved schedule for the above will be posted, on March 16th of. that year.
Yours truly,
R. M. Piesanen
Vice President Brewing Operations
- 77 -
February 15,1988
Mr. G. Greco, President Component 325 One Cart ingview Drive Etobicoke, Ontario M9W SES
Dear Mr. Greco:
In lieu of the Company laundering one set of uniforms per week at no cost to the employees, seniority employees will receive a payment of $120.00 per year which will be paid within one month of the signing of the Agreement and annually on the anniversary date of its signing thereafter unless changed by mutual agreement
Employees who attain seniority in future will receive a pro rata sum to coincide with the anniversary date.
Employees supplied with uniforms must wear same while at work.
Yours truly,
R. M. Piesanen
Vice President Brewing Operations
- 78 -
February 15, 1988
Mr. 8. Greco, President Component 325 One Carlingview Drive Etobicoke, Ontario M9W 5E5
Dear Mr. Greco:
It is understood and agreed that because of the vacation restrictions placed on maintenance employees during the annual overhauls, it is the Company's intention to continue the present practice of scheduling Simmer vacations during the 14-week period coiraencing on the second Monday in June.
Further, during the service vacation period as outlined in Section 15.02, because of the limited lumber of vacation weeks available, the Company will grant an additional man/week of vacation in the last week of a multiple week overhaul to a Mechanic "A" if he is not scheduled on said overhaul, in order to provide a greater choice of weeks.
Yours truly,
R. N. Piesanen
Vice President Brewing Operations
RE: MAINTENANCE VACATIONS.
- 80 -
February 15, 1988
Mr. 6. Greco, President Component 325 One Carlingvie* Drive Etobicoke, Ontario M9W 5E5
Dear Mr. Greco:
The Company agrees to maintain the present practice with respect to tool-allowance.
The tool allowance will be pro-rated, based on one-twelfth (1/12) of the tool alowance for each month (or part thereof) actually worked as a regular tradesman.
Yours truly,
R. M. Piesanen
Vice President Brewing Operations
Re: Tool Allowance
- 81 -
February 15, 1988
Mr. 6. Greco, President
Component 325
One Carlingview Drive
Etobicoke, Ontario M9W 5E5
Dear Mr. Greco:
The Company will undertake, upon the request of an employee, to advance monies on Lost Time Workers' Compensation Claims up to weekly indemnity limits so long as the employee has complied with the proper reporting requirements under the Ontario Workers' Compensation Act.
Yours truly.
R. M. Piesahen
Vice President Brewing Operations
- 82 -
February 15, 1988
Hr. 6. Greco, President Component 325 One Carlingview Drive Etobicoke, intario M9W 5E5
Dear Mr. Greco:
This Letter of Intent will serve to confirm our understanding reached at negotiations.
The .Company will, upon the request of an employee, give due consideration to advance monies pending the commencement of weekly indemnity payments, if the following conditions exist:
(a)	It is beyond the control of the employee;
(b)	A weekly Indemnity claim has been properly submitted by the employee with no undue delay;
(c)	The claim has been approved ana tne payment or the claim is delayed.
Repayment of such advance will be effected immediately upon the commencement of weekly Indemnity payments.
Yours truly,
R. M. Piesahen
Vice President Brewing Operations
February 15, 1988
Hr. G. Greco, President Component 325 One Carlingview Drive Etobicoke, Ontario*
H9U 5E5
Dear Mr. Greco:
The Company agrees to pay the cost of doctor regarding proof of illness, if requested by the Company.
Tours truly,
R. M. Piesanen
Vice President Brewing Operations
a letter from a such letter is
February 15, 1988
Hr. 6. 6reco, President Component 325 One Carlingview Drive Etobicoke, Ontario M9M 5E5
Oear Hr. Sreco:
Tax Deductions From Meekly Indemnity and Lona Term
PISE'l'H'ty "
Employees will have a flat 25J deducted at source from their Meekly indemnity or Long Term Disability cheques.
The Insurance Company will then issue the appropriate income tax slips each year.
Yours truly.
R. H. Piesanen
Vice President Brewing Operations
85 •
February 15, 1988
Hr. G. Greco, President Component 325 One Carlingview Drive Etobicoke, Ontario M9M 5E5
Dear' Mr. Greco:
An employee who becomes ill or is injured after having commenced his vacation and as a result is hospitalized or forced to cancel his vacation and return heme, may, if qualified for Weekly Indomity coverage, apply to postpone any remaining lull week(s) of vacation and enrol in the Weekly Indemnity Plan. The employee must contact his supervisor or the Personnel Department imediately and must comply with the normal Weekly Indemnity reporting provisions.
All approved requests will result in the employee's remaining full week(s) of vacation being cancelled the day after the request is received and in his being enrolled in the plan. The remaining vacation time shall be re-scheduled at a time mutually agreeable to the Company and the employee.
Any vacation pay held by the employee for the cancelled period shall be returned to the Company and shall be re-issued for the re-scheduled vacation period.
Yours truly,
R.M. Piesanen
Vice President Brewing Operations
- 86 -
February 15, 1988
Mr. 6. Sreco Component 325 One Carlingview Drive Etobicoke, Ontario M9W 5E5
Dear Mr. Greco:
Ibis will confirm the understanding reached during 1985 negotiations covering the Retail Store Operation.
Should active retail sale to the Public be re-instituted by the Company, the clauses and language deleted from the agreement, which expired December 31, 1984, will be replaced in the then current agreement.
Should the Employee Store position be declared vacant by the Company, it shall be posted in accordance with Article 13.07 of the Collective Agreement, expiring December 31, 1990.
Yours truly,
R. N. Piesanen
Vice President Brewing Operations
Re: Retail Store
- 88
February 15,1988
Mr. G. Greco, President Component 325 One carl ingview Drive Etobicoke, Ontario M9N 5E5
Dear Mr. Greco:
During the last stages of the recent labour management negotiations, the coqmaov an reed to certain reouests with regard to future employees classed as Mechanic “A" in the Packaging Maintenance Department at this particular plant.Touring the existence of the current agreement, i.e. until December 31,1990, the Company will schedule new hirees to the position of Mechanic "A" on the midnight shift. This scheduling will occur only when such new hirees are fully trained.
The hew hirees will remain on a steady midnight shift where such shift is deemed necessary by departmental management until a vacancy arises in the remainder of the Mechanic "A" staff. At this time, the most senior new hiree will take over such vacancy and will then become sub.iect to rotation on days, afternoons and midnight shift, as is again deemed necessary.
Yours truly.
R. M. Piesanen
Vice President Brewing Operations
- 89 -
February 15, 1988
Mr. S. Greco, President Component Union 325 One Carlingview Drive Etobicoke, Ontario M9M 5E5
Dear Mr. Greco:
Letter re: Lieu Days: Article 14.05
Hie normal mnber of employees who may be allowed to schedule lieu days on any day will be as follows:
If the Department Head allows less than the normal number of employees to receive the Same lieu day, hfi will inform the Mtflas to the reason for his decision.
Yours truly,
R. M. Piesanen
Vice President Brewing Operations
Bottleshop 4 Brewing 1 Maintenance 2
Shipping
- 90 -
February 15* 1988
Mr. 6. Greco» President Component 825 One Carllngview Drive Etobicoke, Ontario M9M 5E5
Dear Mr. Greco:
Deferred Retirement -- Letter of Intent
Should mandatory retirement at age 65 be no longer permitted by law in this province and a regular enplqyee continues in employment beyond his normal retirement date, the following conditions shall govern such employment and be added to the Collective Agreement.
1.	Hie Pension to which the employee has become entitled at his normal retirement date (the "Pension") shall be frozen as of the eagiloyee's normal retirement date as defined in the Pension Plan.
2.	The employee's Pension shall become payable as of the first day of the month immediately following the month the employee ceased to be employed with the Company or as of the first day of the month immediately preceding the employee's seventy-first (71) birthday, whichever shall first occur (the "Pension Date").
3.	The employee's Pension will include any escalation benefits which tear from his normal retirement date tv his Pension Date.
A. ho contribution to the Pension Plan will be made after the employee has reached his normal retirement date and no service shall be credited after the aforementioned date.
cont../2
- 92 -
February 15, 1988
Mr. 6. Greco, President Component 325 One Carlingview Drive Etobicoke, Ontario M9W 5E5
Dear Mr. Greco:
An employee's eligibility for sick days and participation in the Weekly Indemnity and Long Term Disability Plans ceases Immediately upon his layoff and is reinstated upon his recall to work and _ completion of eight (8) hours work in the Bargaining Unit.
Notwithstanding the above, an employee with ten (10) or more years seniority who is laid off, and who, if recalled within two (2) weeks or less, is unable to report to work due to sickness or non-occupational accident, shall be eligible for participation in the Weekly Indemnity and Long Term Disability Plans, effective the date of his recall.
Yours truly,
R. M. Piesanen
Vice President Brewing Operations
- 93 -
February 15, 1988
Mr. G. Greco, President Component 325 One Carlingvlew Drive Etobicoke, Ontario M9VI 5E5
Dear Mr. Greco:
Re: Section 10.03
This will confirm our understanding reached during negotiations concerning the application of Section 10.03 of the current collective agreement.
If a lay-off of employees in ^department was anticipated to be of a duration of less than one month but, in fact, extends beyond one month, those laid off employees with five (5) or flWff years of seniority affected by such lay-off will be permitted, to displace more jimior employees in other departments after too month or more of lay-off.
Yours truly,
R. M. Piesanen
Vice President Brewing Operations
- 94 -
February 15, 1988
Mr. 6. Greco, President Component 325 One Carlingview Drive Etobicoke, Ontario M9M SE5
Dear Mr. Greco:
It is understood that Section 10 of the current Collective Agreement applies to lay-offs. However, notwithstanding the provisions of Section 10, employees in a department who are temporarily transferred out of their respective departments for more than 5 consecutive working days, without a resultant lay-off, will be entitled, if qualified, ti exercise the option of displacing temporary or probationary employees if any in their respective
departments, *»d ! f necessary , 'IMf.'.ace tbe most junior employees who have seniority in order of seniority.
Yours truly,
R. M. Piesanen
Vice President Brewing.Qoerations
- 95 -
February 15, 1988
Mr. 6. 6reco, President Component 325 One Carlingview Drive Etobicoke, Ontario M9W 5E5
Dear Mr. 6reco:
Re:	Scheduling of Packaging Department Employees
During the 1988 negotiations, the Company agreed that it would, in accordance with its present practice, endeavour to schedule qualified Packaging employees to assignments in accordance with their expressed preferences. Such preferences will be recorded and/or modified annually during the month of March.
Employees shall annually rank four preferences in order of priority.
It is understood that scheduling according to job preference will be done by seniority where operationally feasible and further that absenteeism, including vacations.and shift levels could affect the Company's ability to accommodate employee preferences.
Yours truly.
R. H. Piesanen
Vice President Brewing Operations
- 96 -
February 15, 1988
Mr. S. Greco, President Component 325 One Carlingvlew Drive Etobicoke, Ontario M9W 5E5
Dear Mr. Greco:
This will confirm our understanding reached during negotiations regarding the maintenance schedule. The Company agrees to post a six month shift schedule which will be updated monthly. The most recent four weeks will be the working schedule and will be changed only when necessary because of unforeseen circumstances including absenteeism or major production changes.
Yours truly,
R. M. Piesanen
Vice President Brewing Operations