g aifiNG
SOURCE
^ )jgrEFB
,v..

is
Of
fMHOVsfS
!Z
Oif
/*
o/
3/
i-f'ipS
AGR®Pf ^
BETWEEN
CARLING O’KEEFE BREWERIES OF CANADA LIMITED, TORONTO, ONTARIO
— and —
CANADIAN UNION OF BREWERY AND GENERAL WORKERS COMPONENT 325
00668 (01)
AGREEMENT - 1985-1987
8 1386
CARLING O'KEEFE BREWERIES OF CANADA LIMITED
TORONTO PLANT
INDEX	PAGE
Adequate Manpower	45
Bereavement Allowance	46
Check-off	4
Cost of Living Allowance	45
Discipline	48
Grievance Procedure	36
Guaranteed Wage Plan	55
Hiring Practice	5
Injury or Illness	6
Job Posting - Seniority
Applications	17
Jury IXity	48
Management Functions	3
Meal Allowance	34
No Strike Clause	40
Notice Boards	47
Pay Day	34
Pension Plan	70
Picket tine	47
Plant Holidays	19
Policy Grievance	37
Probationary and
Temporary Brployees	8
Protective Clothing	35
Rates for Transferred Employees 34 Regular Hours and
Overtime Conditions	28
Reporting Allowance	33
Rest Periods	32
Scope of the Bargaining Unit	1
Seniority	7
Definitions	7
Transfers	14
Layoffs and Recalls	11
Termination of	10
Shift Premiums	44
Sick Leave	84
Technological^ Change	48
Termination clause	52
Tool Allowance	47
Unemployment Insurance Forms	16
Union Activities	5
Union Shop	3
Vacation Plan	23
Vacation Bonus	26
Vacation Payment on Termination 26 Wage Rates	41
Welfare Plan Benefits	81
- 1 -
COLLECTIVE AGREE M E N T
THIS AGREEMENT MADE THIS 7th DAY OF JANUARY, ■
BETWEEN:
CANADIAN UNION OF BREWERY AND GENERAL WORKERS - 325,
COMPONENT OF N.U.P.G.E.
Toronto, Ontario, (hereinafter called the "Union")
OF THE FIRST PART
-and -
CARLiWTuKEEFc,BREWERIES OF CANADA LIMITED, Toronto, Ontario (hereinafter called the "Company")
OF THE SECOND PART
WITNESSETH:
In consideration of the mutual terms and covenants hereinafter contained, it is hereby agreed by and between the parties hereto as follows:
SECTION 1 - SCOPE OF THE BARGAINING UNIT
1.01	The Union shall be the exclusive
collective bargaining representative of all employees of the bargaining unit which consists of all employees of the Company except -
- 2 -
(a)	foreman and persons above the rank
of foreman:
(b)	office staff;
(c)	operating engineers performing shift
and maintenance duties, and who constitute a separate bargaining unit represented by the International Union of operating Engineers, Local No. 796, provided that if any shift engineer is regularly assigned to that kind of maintenance work which is regularly performed by members of the bargaining unit for more than five days per month, he shall be required to be a member of the Union as provided in Section 2, but wherever possible only one such operating engineer will be so assigned
<d) guards .
(e) employees covered by a subsisting agreement between Carling O'Keefe Breweries of Canada Limited and B.F.C.S.D. Local 304 or successors thereof.
1.02	The Company will supply to the Union a
list of the supervisory personnel who are classified as foreman whose duties are mainly supervisory but who may occasionally relieve an employee in the bargaining unit for a short period or work in emergency situations, or to train or demonstrate.
- 3 -
1.03	Wherever the masculine is used in this Agreement, it shall be considered as if the feminine has been used where the context so requires.
SECTION 2 - UNION SHOP
2.01	Each member of the bargaining unit shall be a member in good standing of the Brewery Workers Component No. 325.
2.02	The Union agrees that any employee engaged by the Company to work in the bargaining unit who is satisfactory to the Company will be allowed to make application for membership in the said union on payment of the regular initiation fees and monthly dues, and will not be denied membership without just cause.
2.03	Whenever an employee is suspended or expelled, the Union will give the Company, in writing, the reason for such action.
SECTION 3 - MANAGEMENT FUNCTIONS
3.01	The Union acknowledges that it is the exclusive function of the Company to:
(a)	Maintain order, discipline and
efficiency.
(b)	Hire, discharge, transfer, promote,
demote or discipline employees provided that the claim that an employee has been discharged! transferred, demoted or disciplined
- 4 -
without just cause may be dealt with as hereinafter provided.
3.02 it is understood that in exercising these functions the Company must conform to all other clauses of this Agreement. #en an employee is disciplined or discharged the appropriate Steward and the Onion Secretary wnlT be given in writing reasons for such action.
SECTION 4 - CHECK-OFF
4.01	The Company agrees to provide for the convenience of its employees a voluntary revocable check-off arrangement which will permit the employees to have their regular dues and assessments deducted from their pay. The Company shall forward the amount so deducted to the Treasurer of the Onion no later than the tenth day of the month following the date on which the dues and assessment deductions have been made, together with a list of the employees, giving particulars of those who have been terminated or who nave been laid off since the previous list was forwarded.
In the event that any such deductions are not made for reasons of sickness, vacations, leave of absence, etc., they should be made upon written request of the Union from the first pay of the next following month in which wages are owing to such employees.
- 5 -
SECTION 5 - HIRING PRACTICE
5.01	In the event that the Company engages new employees, it is agreed that these new employees will be required to sign, a dues authorisation card at the time of hiring.
The Company shall promptly notify the Department Steward and the Onion Secretary when a new employee is engaged for that Department.
SECTION 6 - UNION ACTIVITIES
6.01	No employee shall be discriminated against or discharged for his activity as a Union member or for doing committee or other work for the Union, provided, however, that permission from the employer is obtained if such activities occur during working hours and interfere with the employee's normal duties on behalf of the Company. It is agreed that such permission, if requested, will not be unreasonably withheld in any instance.
6.02	The Company agrees to grant leave of absence for a period of not more than 12 months, or for the balance of the duration of this Agreement, whichever is the longer, to any employee who has been elected or appointed as an Official of the Canadian Union or of the Component, if such duties require him to have leave of absence from his Company duties on a full time basis.
- 6 -
6.03	Employees on such leave of absence will be continued as active members of the pension and welfare plan upon payment of the total contributions whether from the Union or from the employee concerned. IXiring such periods of leave of absence the employee's seniority shall continue to accumulate as if he were employed at his regular post by the Company.
6.04	Upon written application of the Union, the Company agrees to grant an educational leave of absence, without loss of regular pay, not to exceed three normal working days in any one calendar year, to two Union executives, elected Stewards,
Alternate Stewards as defined in the Grievance procedure Section. Such educational leave shall be so arranged between the company and the Union so as to minimize disruption of the Company's operations.
An application for leave form will be submitted to the company at least fourteen (14) calendar days in advance of the date for which leave is requested. The company shall respond to the request within seven (7) calendar days after receipt of the form.
SECTION 7 - INJURY OR ILLNESS
7.01	Sickness or disability resulting from an accident shall not be sufficient cause for discharge. Upon recovery
- 7 -
the employee shall receive his former position or some other suitable job in his department if held by an employee with less seniority, if the recovered employee is capable of performing the job in a satisfactory manner.
SECTION 8 - DEFINITION OF SENIORITY
8.01	A seniority list for each of the following departments of the Company shall be established and seniority shall be based upon the total length of service with the Company as outlined in the succeeding clauses, and provided further that this shall not affect the present seniority status of any member of the bargaining unit.
8.02	EMPLOYEE DEFINITIONS
A.	Probationary Employee
A probationary employee is one who has been hired with a view to his becoming a regular employee.
B.	Temporary Employee
A temporary employee is one who has been hired for seasonal periods, vacation and illness relief, short term temporary requirements or emergency . situations.
- 8 -
C. Regular Bnployee
A regular employee is one who:
(i)	has actually worked for a period in excess of one hundred and thirty-two (132) working days in a twelve month period as a temporary employee, or
(ii)	has actually worked in excess of ninety (90) working days as probationary employee, or
(iii)	having been reclassified from temporary to
probationary status, has actually worked in excess of a total of ninety (90) working days from the commencement of his last employment with the Company.
8.03	SENIORITY STATUS
A. Probationary Employee
A probationary employee shall be placed on the seniority list of the department in which he completed the probationary period and his seniority date shall be determined by selecting a date 90 working days earlier than his 90th
- 9 -
working day, provided that such date shall not be earlier than his actual date of hire.
B. Temporary Employee
A temporary enployee shall be placed on the seniority list of the department in which he completed the temporary period and his seniority date shall be determined by selecting a date six calendar months earlier than his X32nd working day, provided that such date shall not be earlier than his actual date of hire.
8.04	Insurance and Welfare entitlements will commence upon attainment of regular employee status.
8.05	if a probationary or temporary enployee is injured or suffers an industrial illness which entitles him to Worker's Compensation coverage, the time periods referred to in 8.02 above shall be increased by the number of days for which he was covered by Compensation, provided however that he shall not be given a seniority date earlier than his actual hiring date.
8.06	Seniority lists shall be revised and posted in each department every six months, and copies shall be supplied to Union Officers.
- 10 -
8.07	Hie departments shall be as follows:
(a)	Brewing Department, which
includes Brewhouse, Fermenting, Cellars and	Kegging.
(b)	Bottleshop,	Shipping
Department, including the handling and storing of goods or empties in outside storage locations where the handling and services of such goods or empties is not supplied by the owner or operator of the storage premises.
<c>	Maintenance	Department
including watchmen.
. SECTION 9 - TERMINATION OF SENIORITY
9.01	Seniority shall cease and employment
shall be terminated for any of the '	following	reasons:
(a)	If	an	employee	quits;
(b)	If	an	employee	is absent from
work for three (3) consecutive days without having notified the Company in advance, where that is possible and received permission to be absent. Such permission shall not be unreasonably withheld.
(c)	If	an	employee	has been laid
off and fails to report for work within 7 days after
- 11 -
written notice to report to work has been sent by registered mail to his last address registered with the Company; provided that when an employee is recalled to work and does not report within 48 hours, the Company may recall the next employee in line, but he is subject to being displaced if the first employee recalled does report within 7 days:
(d)	If an employee has been discharged for just cause;
(e)	In case of lay-off for a period of 24 months, unless this period has been extended because the employee was granted leave of absence for sickness or other reasons.
SECTION 10 - APPLICATION OF SENIORITY TO
REDUCTION OF FORCE IN A DEPARTMENT AND RECALLS
10.01	Whenever it is necessary to reduce the working staff in any department, the reduction shall be accomplished as follows:
10.02	The Company shall first lay off temporary or probationary employees if any in the department and if further reduction is necessary shall lay off the most junior employees who have
- 12 -
seniority in order of seniority.
10.03	If it becomes necessary to layoff employees with five (5) or more years of seniority, for an anticipated duration of one month or more, then such employees will be permitted, if qualified, to displace more junior employees i.i tfrfasr dtepaytments.
Temporaries or probationers who are laid off in a department shall not have any right to displace temporaries or probationers or other employees in other departments.
10.04	Employees on a seniority list in a department who are laid off shall have the option of replacing a temporary or probationer in any other department the most senior of the laid off employees having the first choice of the jobs held by the temporaries or probationers in other departments who shall be laid off in sufficient number to permit the exercising of this option provided that the option of displacing a temporary or probationer in another department shall not be available until the beginning of the following regular shift when such employees will be scheduled to replace temporaries or probationers in other departments if qualified.
10.05	An employee with seniority who is laid
off from his department and who has exercised the option of displacing a temporary or probationer in another department shall also be subject to
- 13 -
displacement by a more senior employee subsequently laid off as if he were a temporary or probationer until he has worked for 132 working days in the department where he has replaced the temporary or probationer.	'
10.06	An employee on a seniority list in a departneTiV who, to avoid \vf-off is
transferred to a temporarily vacant position in another department, shall after 5 working days in the new department be subject to bumping by an employee of his regular department who has higher seniority and subsequently is laid off. conversely, an employee who is on lay-off and is recalled to a temporarily vacant position in another department shall, after 5 working days in the new department be subject to bumping by an employee of his regular department who has higher seniority and has subsequently been laid off.
10.07	One Shop Steward designated by the Union in each department except in the Bottle Shop where there shall be two Shop Stewards, and the Plant Chairman shall be exempt from any lay-off so long as there is work in their respective departments which they can perform satisfactorily.
10.08	when it is necessary to shut down a machine for the purpose of overhaul, anv available work in the department will be given to the most senior men displaced by such temporary reduction
- 14 -
of operations if they are capable and willing to accept such assignment.
10.09	In all cases employees who are transferred to a different job as a result of the application of these seniority rules must be able to perform the job satisfactorily, and must accept the rate of the job to which they are assigned.
10.10	When the working force of a department is increased following a lay-off, the employees will be recalled to their former jobs in their departments from transfer or lay-off in order of seniority.
10.11	The Guaranteed Wage Plan, which is a supplement to this Agreement, is intended to provide assistance for those employees who have one or more years of seniority who are laid off as a result of the application of above clauses, and is not to be construed as authorization to alter existing practices.
SECTION 11 - TRANSFER OF SENIORITY
11.01	When an employee is transferred from one department to another as a result of his selection for a posted job, he may return to his original department without loss of seniority (and displace a more ■jtm'i'or ■emtii.oyee if necessary) if his transfer is cancelled before he has worked 132 working days in his new department or
- 15 -
if he is laid off from his new department before he has worked there for 132 working days, but for the purpose of determining his ranking for lay-off purposes in his new department his seniority shall be deemed to have been transferred at the time of his actual transfer.
11.02	When an employ** is transferred from one department to another for any other reason his seniority position shall remain in the department from which he was transferred for a period of 132 working days. If the transfer remains in effect for a period of 132 working days in a particular department, his seniority shall then be transferred to that department permanently, and he shall have no claim in any other department where he may have worked.
11.03	An employee who has been on a seniority list in any department and is promoted to a position not covered by this Agreement and later demoted, shall after 132 working days in any 12 month period in the department to which he has been assigned, be given seniority equivalent to his total service with the Company except if the demotion occurs before he has worked for 132 working days outside of the Bargaining Unit he may return to his original department and regain his total seniority without delay. This kind of demotion shall not take place
- 16 -
during periods when seniority employees are laid off.
- An employee who has never appeared on a seniority list in any department covered by this Agreement shall, if transferred into any such department, retain credit for his total service with the Company for the purpose of vacation and benefit entitlement and pension but such service shall not be counted towards seniority.
11.04	An employee who has been on a
seniority list in any department as of January 1, 1985, and is promoted to a position not covered by this Agreement and later demoted, shall, after 132 § A’ .mastf? period it1, the department to which he has been assigned be given seniority equivalent to his total service with the Coapany in the Bargaining Unit except if the demotion occurs before he has worked for 132 working days outside of the Bargaining Unit he may return to his original department and regain his total seniority without delay.
SECTION 12 - UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE FORMS
12.01	An employee on being laid off shall
receive such documents as required by the Unemployment Insurance Commission to enable him to Hake a claim for benefits or to accept a temporary job elsewhere during the lay-off. In either case, a regular employee shall retain all his rights and privileges
- 17 -
under this Agreement, provided that he reports for work within seven days after written notification to report for work has been sent to his last address registered with the Company.
SECTION 13. - APPLICATION OF SENIORITY TO
PROMOTIONS
OR VACANT POSITIONS
13.01	Departmental
When a more desirable or higher rated job becomes vacant or a new job is established within a Department, it shall be filled where possible from within the Department on the basis of qualifications, with preference to employees having the greatest seniority according to the Department Seniority List.
13.02	If there are no suitable persons within a department so that a vacancy is not filled; or as a result of a transfer or transfers as outlined in
13.01	there is a resultant vacancy; or there is need for additional employees, they will be obtained by first resorting to the lay-off list of that department. In the event that no person with sufficient qualifications can be selected from that list for the vacancy or position or if there are no employees on the departmental lay-off list then the following procedure will be effected.
- 18 -
13.03	Plant Wide
The vacancy or position will be posted throughout the bargaining unit for a period of five working days, and a copy of the posting shall be given to the Union Secretary and the Steward of the department where the vacancy or
open pos'ftiui L 'ejdiSjtts. -ATMi rrUARii; of
the applicants will be supplied to the Secretary and the Steward following the posting.
13.04	when considering which applicant shall be given a job which has been posted, the qualifications of the applicant shall be given primary consideration but if there is any choice to be made between two or more applicants having sufficient qualifications, the most senior applicant shall be given the position, but exceptions may be made in favour of an applicant who needs a transfer because of his health or physical condition. Employees in the bargaining unit having sufficient qualifications shall receive the job in preference to persons outside the bargaining unit.
13.05	The Company may fill any position temporarily, either before or after posting, but shall not be obligated to try out all applicants, nor is the Company obligated to fill all vacancies bjj ■promotions transfer from within the bargaining unit.. For the purpose of this sub-section
- 19 -
13.06
13.07
13.08
SECTION
14.01
temporarily-shall mean not more than 20 working days.
No posting shall be required for a vacancy resulting from vacations or illness. No posting shall be required for any vacancy or job which the Company announces is not expected to last for more than 15 working days, then it shall be posted as provided above.
Notwithstanding the above, the following jobs, Bnployee Store employee, employee's lunchroom attendant and janitor will not be considered departmental jobs, and vacancies in them will be posted through the bargaining unit for five working days.
Regular employees who are on vacation for the total period during which a job is posted under 13.03 above, shall have two (2) calendar weeks after the expiry date of the posting in which to apply.
14 - PLANT HOLIDAYS
The Company will observe the following Plant Holidays as outlined below:-
1985
New Year's Day
January 2nd
Good Friday Easter Monday Victoria Day Canada Day Civic Holiday Labour Day
Thanksgiving Day
Christmas Day Boxing day
Mon, Dec.. 31/84
Tues. Jan. 1
Fri. April 5 Mon., April 8 Won.. May 20 Mon.. July 1 Mon. Aug, 5 Mon.. Sept. 2
Mon. Oct. 14 Wed.. Dec. 25 Thurs. Dec. 26
1986	1987
Wed. Jan. 1	Thurs. Jan. 1 (Thurs Dec. 31/87
Thurs. Jan. 2	Fri. Jan.. 2 (Fri., Jan. 1/88) .
Fri. Mar.. 28	Fri. April 17
Mon.. Mar 31	Mon. April 20
Mon. May 19	Mon. May 18
Tues. July 1	Wed. July 1
Mon. Aug. A	Mon. Aug .. 3
Mon. Sept. 1	Mon. Sept.. 7
Mon. Oct. 13	Mon. Oct. 12
Thurs. Dec. 25	Thurs. Dec.24
Fri. Dec. 26	Fri. Dec. 25
- 22 -
And one additional day per year if declared by the Provincial Government.
14.02	Employees on the seniority lists and probationary employees who have completed 30 days of work for the Company since their most recent date of hire, will receive 8 hours straight time pay for each of such holidays without being required to work on such days provided that:
(a)	the employee has worked at least 5 days during the 20 working days immediately preceding the day on which such holiday is observed, and
(b)	the employee has not been absent without permission on the last work day scheduled for him immediately prior to the day on which the said holiday is observed or the first work day scheduled for him immediately after the day on which the said holiday is observed.
14.03	In a calendar week in which one or more plant holidays is observed, the number of days in that week which «ay be worked at straight time shall be reducedby the number of such holidays.
- 23 -
14.04	When an employee is required to work any hours on any of the plant holidays referred to in 14.01, he shall receive double time for the hours worked in addition to pay for the holiday, and if called in to work on such a day he shall be provided at least 4 hours of work or pay at the double tine rate.
14.05	When any of the Plant Holidays listed in Article 14.01 are observed during an employee's vacation, he shall receive one day's pay for each of such holidays in addition to his regular vacation payment unless by mutual agreement between the employee and the Company the employee is given another day off with pay in lieu of such holiday. Such lieu day shall be scheduled by mutual agreement between the employee and the Company.
SECTION 15 - VACATION PLAN
15.01	Vacation Leave
As of May 1 in each calendar year vacation leave will be established for regular employees according to the following scale:
(a)	regular employees who have
achieved seniority as of May 1st------------1 week.
- 24 -
(b)	regular employees who have year or more of seniority i May 1st	2 weeks.	one as of
(c)	regular employees who have more years of seniority as May 1st	? weeks.	3 or of
<d>	regular employees who have more years of seniority as May 1st	4 weeks.	8 or of
(e)	regular employees who have or more years of seniority of May 1st	5 weeks.	15 as
(£)	regular employees who have or more years of seniority of May 1st	6 weeks.	20 as
<g>	regular employees who have or more years of seniority of May 1st	7 weeks.	25 as
To complete the eight (8), fifteen (15), twenty (20) and twenty-five (25) years of seniority mentioned respectively in paragraphs (d), (e), (f) and (g) above, for the purpose of the qualifying date for the fourth, fifth, sixth and seventh weeks of vacations, such service shall be considered to have commenced on May 1st in the calendar year in which the employee's seniority date occurs.
Hie employee will be permitted to take the additional week during the slack periods designated in 15.02 but in no case prior to his actual anniversary date.
Vacation Time
Summer vacation shall be limited to two consecutive weeks which shall be scheduled in the fourteen week period
commencing on the second Monday in June, additional vacation leave shall be scheduled during the slack periods outside the regular summer vacation period.
Vacations are to be granted by seniority and within occupational groups where applicable.
All vacation leaves must be taken within 12 months after they have been established on any May 1st, and except as provided in Section 15.03, an employee is not to remain at work during a vacation leave.
Vacation Pay
For each week of vacation leave an employee shall receive forty (40) hours' pay at his current hourly wage rate, except that with respect to the first two weeks of vacation taken after May 1st in any year payment shall be at the rate of i% of earnings during the 12 month period preceding May 1st if the employee has lost fifty days or more in the said 12 month period because of lay-off or other absence not due to illness or accident.
- 26 -
An employee who is to be paid on a percentage basis for his first two weeks of vacation may elect to remain at work and receive the 4% payment without taking any time off. Payment to be made when requestedby the employee during the summer vacation.
15.04 Vacation Bonus
In addition to the normal vacation pay provided by Section 15:03, a vacation bonus for certain employees will be established on May 1st of each year when vacation leaves are established, assuming that all such vacation leaves will be paid for on the basis of wage rates then in effect.
the bonus will be paid in a lump sum on the pay day prior to July 1st in each year except that any employees who take vacation subsequent to May 1st and prior to July 1st may request their vacation bonus upon one week of advance notice.
as of May 1st of each year employees who have three years or fik>re seniority will be paid a vacation bonus of 20% of their normal vacation payment.
SECTION 16 - VACATION PAYMENT ON TERMINATION
16.01	All terminations shall be handled on the following basis:
(a) Bnployees who had received
their vacations earned as of
- 27 -
May 1st prior to termination shall receive a pro rata payment of 254, 454, 654, 854, 1054, 1254 or 1454 as applicable of earnings from May 1st to date of termination.
(b)	Employees who had not received their earned vacations as of May 1st prior to termination shall receive their regular vacation pay in addition to a pro rata payment of 254, 454, 654, 854, 1054, 1254 or 1454 as applicable of earnings fro* May 1st.
(c)	Temporary employees shall be entitled only to vacation pay in accordance with provisions of the Employment Standards Act.
On termination, an employee will receive any vacation bonus to which he is entitled.
- 28 -
SECTION 17 - REGULAR HOURS OF EMPLOYMENT AND
OVERTIME CONDITIONS'
17.01	Watchmen shall be regularly scheduled to work on any five days including Saturdays and Sundays at straight time rates, but such employees shall be regularly scheduled to have two pre-arranged days off per week, and if required to work on such regular days off they shall be paid at the rate of time and one-half for work performed on the first off day and double time for work performed on the second off day.
Watchmen shall also be entitled to receive time and one-half for hours worked in excess of 8 hours per day and double time in excess of 11 hours per day.
17.02	Employees in the Shipping, Receiving, Loading, Checking, Maintenance and Brewing Department may be scheduled regularly on a rotating shift basis. They will be scheduled regularly to work five consecutive days or shifts starting the first of such regular days or shifts on either Sunday,
Monday or Tuesday.
Hours worked by such employees on Saturday will be paid for at the rate of time and one-half.
If a sixth consecutive day is worked counting from the first of his regularly scheduled days, that day
- 29 -
will be paid at the rate of time and one-half; and if a seventh consecutive day is worked counting from the first of his regularly scheduled days, that day will be paid for at the rate of double time; but no day shall be considered a sixth or seventh consecutive day if it is also one of the regularly scheduled days in the next following tour of duty in the following calendar week.
The Company will endeavour to give twenty-four (24) hours notice to employees who are required for overtime assignments planned for the 6th and/or 7th consecutive work day.
The Conpany retains its unqualified right to assign overtime work without notice where required operationally.
Work on Sunday will always be paid for at double time rate, and in no event shall an employee be paid more than double time rate for any work performed on Sunday.
Bnployees so scheduled will ’also be
paid at the rate of time and one-half for any work performed in excess of 8 hours on any one shift and double time in excess of 11 hours.
17.03	All other employees will be scheduled to work on regular shifts Mondays through Fridays at straight time.
- 30 -
Such employees are entitled to be paid at the rate of time and one-half for hoursworked.
(a)	in excess of 8 hours on any one shift, or
(b)	for any hours worked on Saturdays:
(c)	if any such employees are scheduled to work in excess of 11 hours per day or on any hours on Sunday from midnight to midnight they shall be entitled to be paid at the rate of double time.
An employee will not be paid at the rate of double time and at the rate of time and one-half for the same hour worked.
17.04	It is understood and agreed that, with the exception of watchmen covered by Section 17.01, all other employees who commence a regular shift on Friday afternoon will be paid for hours worked at the rate of
(a)	straight time until 12:00 midnight;
(b)	time and one-half from 12:01 a.m., Saturday until 11 hours have been worked from commencement of the shift;
- 31 -
(c) double tine for all hours
worked in excess of eleven from the start of the shift.
17.05	Except in the Employee store, the regular day shift shall commence between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 9:00 a.m. Any shift commencing after
. 9:00 a.m. and up to and including 5:00 p.m. shall be considered the afternoon shift and any shift commencing after 5:00 p.m. and before 6:00 a.m. shall be considered the midnight shift.
17.06	The schedule of the hours to be worked each day shall be posted at least one week in, advance of the first of such scheduled days, and the scheduling shall provide for at least 15 hours elapsed time between the close of each man's shift and the start of his next shift, except where an employee is scheduled to change from one group of consecutive shifts to another. In this case the said elapsed time may be reduced to 7 hours.
17.07	Without changing schedules posted pursuant to the preceding paragraph an employee may be requested to take over a work assignment different from that which was posted for him, provided he is given four (4) working hours notice of such change, and further provided that at least seven (7) hours time will elapse from the end of his posted assignment to that of his new assignment.
- 32 -
If these two conditions are not met the employee shall be paid at the rate of time and one-half for the first eight (8) hours worked by him on the changed work assignment.
17.08	Before effecting any general change in departmental shift schedules, the Company will endeavour to advise the Union in advance of such change.
17.09	The Company will endeavour to distribute overtime as equally as
possible in the Maintenance Department to regular maintenance department employees by occupational skills group and that such information will be available to employees on request.
Overtime refused or an employee not available is considered overtime worked. The phrase "not available" shall be deemed to include unavailability due to periods of illness, W.C.B. claims, leaves of absence, or vacation but shall not include VnS ’jBajtti.lBiiiliij* of Union officials due to Union business.
SECTION 18 - REST PERIODS
18.01 There shall be two 15-minute rest
periods per day, one taken before and the other after the lunch period. An additional fifteen minute paid break shall be provided for those employees who currently receive a half-hour unpaid lunch period.
- 33 -
18.02	If any employee is scheduled to work at least 2 hours of overtime in addition to his regular shift he shall be allowed a further 15-minute rest period before starting the overtime period, and an additional X-minute rest period for each two hours of overtime thereafter provided the additional overtime is at least one hour or more in duration.
SECTION 19 - REPORTING ALLOWANCE
19.01	When an employee reports for work at the customary time scheduled for him without being notified to the contrary and is assigned less than 4 hours of work he shall be paid at least 4 hours at straight time rate.
19.02	It is understood that an employee may be assigned under such circumstances to work other than his regular assignment.
19.03	When an employee is called in for break-down or emergency work after leaving the plant following his regular shift and before returning to work for his regular shift and is assigned leas than four hours of extra work outside of his regular shift hours, he shall be paid for at least four hours at the appropriate overtime rate in addition to payment at straight time for any hours worked by his during his regular shift hours; except that if so called in within one hour before his regular starting time
- 34 -
he shall be paid only for such extra timeworked at the'appropriate overtime rate and at straight time for regular shift hours worked.
SECTION 20 - MEAL ALLOWANCE
20.01	Bnployees who are required to work as much as 3 hours overtime continuous with their regular shift shall be granted a meal allegiance of at least $3.00.
■ SECTION 21 - PAY DAY
21.01	A regular weekly pay day shall be established by the Company, and the employees shall receive their pay during the regular working hours of their shift.
21.02	The Company say pay by cheque or by cash, but in either case employees shall receive a statement specifying
the number of hours covered by the payment received, with particulars of deductions, and extras, if any.
SECTION 22 - RATES FOR TRANSFERRED EMPLOYEES
22.01	Employees who are transferred pursuant
.	to the seniority provisions in order
to avoid laying them off shall immediately take the rate for the job to which they are assigned.
22.02	Employees who are temporarily transferred to a vacant job for the convenience of the Conpany shall continue to receive their usual rate.
- 35 -
22.03	Employees	who	are temporarily
transferred to a higher rated job for the convenience of the Company shall receive the higher rate for all hours worked on	the	job.
22.04	Employees	who	regularly work on	jobs
having two rates, if they work for 20 hours per week or more on the higher rated job they shall be paid at the higher rate for all of that week.
SECTION 23 - PROTECTIVE CLOTHING
23.01	Rubber boots,	aprons and protective
clothing shall be furnished to all men when and where necessary. A maximum of two sets of work clothing and 2 "T" shirts per year shall be issued , without charge to all regular employees.
23.02	All regular employees not issued rubber boots as their regular footwear, will be provided at Company expanse, with safety shoes/boots, to a maximum of £75.'Xl>f&z iear.
Employees who are not already provided with coveralls as part of their normal clothing issue and who are assigned to a complete regular annual - line overhaul(s) will be provided with 1 pair of coveralls or uniform. Such coveralls and uniforms shall be returned to the Company at the 1 completion of the overbaul(s).
- 36 -
SECTION 24 - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
24.01	The Company acknowledges the right of the Union to select a reasonable number of Shop Stewards to assist employees in presenting complaints or grievances to the Company. There shall be one Shop Steward recognised in each of the following departments: Brew House and Maintenance.
TWo Shop Stewards shall be recognized in the Bottle Shop, one of whom shall normally work in the Shipping and Receiving Section. There shall be at least one additional alternate Steward in each of the said departments. The alternate Steward shall act in the absence of the regular Steward with to any g.riewanc.p .ari.si.ds* in his department.
24.02	The Union shall appoint a Shop Committee of not more than four employees from the Bargaining Unit or three employees from the Bargaining Unit plus one Executive member of the Union.
24.03	For the purpose of the grievance procedure, department heads in the various departments shall be as follows:
(a)	in the Brewing Department, the Bead Brewer or in his absence his appointee;
(b)	for production employees in the Bottling Department, the Bottling Superintendent or in
- 37 -
his absence his appointee; for non-production eirployees the Supervisor, Shipping and Receiving of the slipping and Receiving sections or in his absence the Foreman in charge;
(c) in the Maintenance Department, the Plant Engineer or in his absence his appointee;
<d) in the Employee store - the
Supervisor of Plant Accounting, or in his absence, his
appointee.
24.04	The procedure for	handling complaints
for grievances	of	employees	shall	be
as follows:
An employee who has a complaint or question shall ordinarily discuss the matter with his foreman, but if this does not satisfy him, or if for any reason his complaint is of such a nature that he prefers to refer it to his Steward first he may do so.
24.05	Step Mo. 1
If a complaint	or	grievance	is
referred by an employee to his Steward and the Steward considers that there may be a reasonable basis for the complaint or grievance, he shall present the matter to the foreman of the employee involved, within five (5> working days from the time such grievance arose or became apparent,
- 38 -
and shall endeavour to arrange a
satisfactory settlement.
A grievance presented after the aforementioned time limit shall not be arbitrable. If such settlement cannot be arranged, the Steward shall then state the grievance in writing, in duplicate, and give the foreman 48 hours to provide a written answer. If this answer is not satisfactory, the next step of the procedure may be invoked.
24.06 Step No. 2
TVo copies of the written grievance shall be forwarded to the Department Head by the Foreman at the request of the Steward. The Department Head will then confer with the Steward and such others as are necessary which may include the aggrieved employee, and attempt to arrange a settlement. If a settlement cannot be arranged within two working days, the Department Head shall state his disposition of the matter in writing, and the grievance shall be referred back to the Shop Cbmmittee as a whole for further consideration.
If the Shop Committee as a whole is not satisfied with the decision of the Department Head, Step No. 3 maybe invoked.
- 39 -
24.07	Step No. 3
the Personnel Manager shall (within 5 working days unless mutually agreed to a further time extension) confer with the Shop Committee and one or two additional representatives of the Union's choice may be present if requested by either the Personnel Manager or the Shop Committee. If the matter is settled the settlement shall be stated in writing and signed by the Personnel Manager and the Shop Oemmittee. If it is not settled within two working days Step No. 4 nay be invoked.
24.08	Note : ftitfi respect to grievances involving discharge, the grievance shall be put in writing by the Steward and Steps Nos. 1 and 2 shall be omitted, and the grievance shall be dealt with by starting with Step No. 3 herein.
24.09	Step No. 4
The grievance may be referred to arbitration upon the written request of either the Company or the Shop Committee. In such case, the referral must be made within sixty (60) calendar days of the third step reply.
24.10	The issue to be arbitrated shall be the written statement of the grievance and the answers of the various management officials who have ’ previously dealt with the matter.
- 40 -
24.11
24.12
24.13
SECTION
25.01
It is agreed that any issue to be arbitrated shall be submitted to a single arbitrator that is satisfactory to both parties. In the event agreement to an arbitrator cannot be reached, either party may apply to the Ontario Labour Management Arbitration Commission for a list of five prospective arbitrators to be forwarded to each of the parties.
Upon receiving the list, the parties have up to ten working days to accept an arbitrator from the list. If the acceptable person is unable to act and agreement cannot be reached on any of the remaining names on the list, the Registrar of the Commission will name an arbitrator different from those on the list and he will be accepted by both parties.
The decision of the arbitrator to be final and binding on the parties hereto.
The reasonable cost of such arbitration, including the fees and expanses, stenographic service, etc., of the arbitrator shall be equally shared by both parties to this Agreement.
25 - NO-STRIKE CLAUSE
In view of the orderly procedure arranged for the settlement of complaints and grievances it is agreed that there will be no strikes or lock-outs instigated, endorsed or
- 41 -
condoned by either party to this Agreement.
25.02	it is also agreed that if any dispute arises between the parties to this Agreement concerning the general policy of either the Union or the Company which affects the orderly administration of this Agreement that either party may invoke the grievance procedure and arbitration beginning with a conference at Step No. 3.
SECTION 26 PROBATIONARY WAGE RATES
26.01	The minimum hiring rate will be in accordance with the Schedule set out in Section 27.01.
26.02	At the end of 22 working days this rate shall be increased by 5 cents per hour, and at the end of the probationary period the job rate shall be paid.
SECTION 27 - WAGE RATES
27.01 The following minimum wage rates for
the respective classification shall be effective from the dates indicated.
Effective
Apr. 1/85
Job Classification
Ordinary Bottlers	15.45
Machine Operators - Bottling	15.50
Bottleshop Shop Lab. Technicians	15.55
Lunchroom Attendant, Janitor	15.45
Shipping and Receiving	15.50
Employee Store Employees	15.47
Brewing Department Employees	15.50
Maintenance Mechanics "A"	18.15
Maintenance Mechanics "B"	17.31
Mechanics Helper - Junior	15.45
After 1 Year	15.54
After 3 Years	16.30
Carpenter	17.74
Oilers and Battery Changers	16.45
Watchmen	15.35
Probationary ,	9.36
Temporary	8.08
Mechanic "A" - Probationary	14.09
Mechanic "A" - Temporary	12.99
Effective Effective
Jan. 1/86 Jan. 1/87
16.05	16.75
16.10	16.80
16.15	16.85
16.05	16.75
16.10	16.80
16.07	16.77
16.10	16.80
18.85	19.67
17.91	18.61
16.05	16.75
16.14	16.84
16.90	17.60
18.44	19.26
17.05	17.75
15.95	16.65
9.72	10.14
8.39	8.75
14.64	15.28
13.49	14.08
- 43 -
27.02	It is understood that any Maintenance Department employee may be assigned to any type of maintenance work which is required but that in order for an employee to be classified as Maintenance Mechanic "A" he must be qualified to do without supervision, and must regularly be assigned to work requiring the skill and experience of a qualified coppersmith or welder or electrician, machinist or pipe fitter.
27.03	In order to be classified as Maintenance Mechanic "B", an employee must be able to do the general mechanical work ordinarily arising in the department, and when he has demonstrated that he has acquired the qualifications specified for Maintenance Mechanic "A" and is employed as such, he will be advanced to that category.
27.04	During overhaul periods certain employees may be assigned to work with Maintenance Mechanics to perform jobs requiring Mechanical skills. These employees will be paid the Mechanics Helper - after three years rate.
27.05	A Maintenance Mechanic Helper is an employee who assists a Maintenance Mechanic, either "A" or "B" and does , general labour work pertaining to the Maintenance Department.
- 44 -
27.06	Shift Premiums
Hourly rates contained in schedules of wages of this Agreement shall be paid for all regular or day shift work.
The afternoon shift shall receive a premium of 55 cents per hour and the midnight shift shall receive a premium of 75 cents per hour. These premiums constitute separate fixed items of pay and shall not be included in basic rates for the calculation of overtime or premium payments nor shall they be included in the calculation of pay for legal holidays if not worked.
27.07	The status of Tradesmen "B" and	.
"Mechanics helpers of 3 years or more service" will be reviewed by the Company annually. Those qualified for progression to higher status will be promoted. Those	jkJJJ be
given reasons for the decision and they shall have recourse to the grievance procedure if they are not satisfied.
27.08	Any maintenance, painting or cleaning work which can be done to the satisfaction of the Conpany by employees who are laid off'will be offered to employees with seniority who are laid off at the rate of wages applicable to "ordinary bottlers and day workers" so long as they do not displace employees from their regular jobs.
27.09 Cost of Living Allowance
A Cost of hiving Allowance in a lump sum payment will be paid to regular employees for all hours worked, including vacations and statutory holidays, in the period from January 1, 1987 to December 31, 1987, the first pay period following publication .	of the December, 1987 Consumer Price
Index (1971 = 100), on the basis of 1 cent per hour for each full .3 change in the Consumer Price Index, (1971 = 100) in the period from January 1,
1987 to December 31, 1987 calculated by subtracting the Consumer Price Index (1971 = 100) for the month of December, 1986, after adding thereto 6% of the December, 1986 Consumer Price Index (1971 = 100) from the Consumer price Index (1971 = 100) for the month of December, 1987.
SECTION 28
28.01	the Company shall supply adequate
manpower on all operations in all departments at all times, and all employees shall perform a fair day's work.	•
28.02	If an employee is injured on the job or becomes so ill that he cannot complete his shift after reporting for work in good health he will be sent home and paid for the balance of the shift.
- 46 -
SECTION 29 - BEREAVEMENT ALLOWANCE
29.01	Should a bereavement oocur in a regular employee's immediate family (members of his household, parents,
brothers, sisters, mother-in-law, father-in-law, daughter-in-law, son-in-law) he may request a bereavement leave, and he shall be granted such time off with pay as is reasonable under the circumstances to enable him to look after funeral arrangements or to attend the funeral. The extent of such leave shall be at the discretion of the Company, depending upon the time of the bereavement in relation to his regular time off, the distance to be travelled, etc. The general standard of bereavement time off shall be three (3) consecutive days.
29.02	Providing prior permission is received, in the event an employee attends the funeral of other in-laws not listed above or of a grandparent or grandchild on a regular scheduled work day, time off with pay shall be granted.
SECTION 30 - WELFARE PLAN
30.01* The Company will provide a Welfare
Plan for all employees, particulars of which will be provided in a separate booklet.
- 47 -
SECTION 31 - PENSION PLAN
31.01	Ihe Company will provide a Pension Plan for employees in the bargaining unit, details of which are the subject of a separate Memorandum of Agreement.
SECTION 32 - NOTICE BOARDS -
32.01	A notice board shall be supplied by the Company, large enough to accommodate union notices for each Department.
32.02	Notices relevant to union activities can be posted if properly signed by authorised union personnel.
SECTION 33 - TOOL ALLOWANCE
33.01	The Company agrees to replace any worn or broken tools or to upgrade tools which in its opinion are necessary for use by regular tradesmen in the course of their employment, up to a maximum of $225.00 in any calendar year. Effective January 1, 1986, the tool replacement allowance will provide a maximum of $235.00 per calendar year. Effective January 1, 1987, this maximum will be increased to $245.00 per calendar year.
SECTION 34 - PICKET LINE
34.01	If an employee in the bargaining unit encounters a bona fide picket line in the course of his normal duties there shall be an immediate conference
- 48 -
between the parties hereto before any decision is made by either party as to whether the picket line should or should not be respected.
SECTION 35 - JURY PUTT
15.01	Should an employee be called for Jury Duty or as Crown subpoenaed Witness, the Company will supplement his jury pay or witness pay to ensure that the employee will receive totally, monies equivalent to eight (8) hours of straight time pay at his regular rate for those days he would actually have keen at work during his service as a juryman or witness.
SECTION 36 - DISCIPLINE
16.01	In the imposition of discipline, prior disciplinay written warnings or reprimands will not be referred to after twelve <12) months; prior suspensions-will not be referred to after thirty (30) months.
ECTION 37 - TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE
7.01	In the event that, during this Collective Agreement, the Company plans to introduce a major technological change which it anticipates will directly result in the permanent layoff of ten (10) or more regular employees, the following shall apply:
The Company will give the Union notice of such technological change at least sixty (60) days before the date on which the technological change is to be effected. After giving notice, the Company shall identify by job classification, the number of jobs to be displaced. The jobs to be displaced shall be grouped by the Company for the purposes of paragraph (c) herein.
The Company will meet and discuss with the union the re-deployment of the affected regular employees in accordance with the provisions of the Collective Agreement and the provisions as set out in the Guaranteed Wage Plan (G.W.P.); and, in so doing, shall designate the employees to be permanently laid off;
During the first thirty (30) days of the notice period and prior to effecting any layoffs • or separations under the Collective Agreement, the Company shall canvass employees eligible for special early retirement ("eligible employees") as to their willingness to elect special early retirement. Such eligible employees shall be. approached within each group, determined
- 50 -
in paragraph (a), in order of seniority and, if they choose to take special early retirement within the above thirty (30) day period and actually retire within thirty (30) days thereafter, will receive a Technological Change Bonus (TCB) . She TCB will be determined by dividing the total amount of the GWP separation pay entitlement of all the employees designated for permanent layoff in paragraph (b) above, by the total number of employees so designated. She number of special early retirees in any group who may receive the TCB will not exceed the number of jobs in that group which are to be permanently displaced by the technological change and, if a greater number of eligible employees in any group so elect to take special early retirement, the TCB will only be paid to the most senior of them.
37.02 If:
(a) the number of eligible
employees in any group who elect to take special early retirement is less than the number of jobs in that group to . be permanently displaced by the technological change, or
(b)	the Company did not anticipate
the number of layoffs but the introduction of the major technological change actually directly results in the permanent layoff of ten (10) or more regular employees,
the following provisions shall apply:
(i)	the employees ultimately designated for permanent layoff hereunder, who are eligible for participation in the GWP, will be permitted to elect separation and to terminate
. from the Company prior to their scheduled date of layoff. Those employees so electing and terminating from the Company shall be entitled to receive the amount of separation payment calculated in accordance with Section 10 of the Guaranteed Wage Plan. If any of those employees who are eligible for participation in the Guaranteed Wage Plan were classified as regular employees • prior to March, 1985, their separation payment calculation shall include an additional eight (8) weeks of benefit entitlement for the purposes of paragraph (b) of Section 10 of the Guaranteed Wage Plan;'
(ii)	those employees designated for permanent layoff hereunder who
- 52 -
do not elect to terminate from the Company pursuant to the provisions of the preceding paragraph, and who are eligible for participation in the Guaranteed Wage Plan, shall receive the benefits provided for under that Plan. In addition, if any employee who is eligible for participation in the Guaranteed Wage Plan was classified as a regular employee prior to March 1965, he shall receive an additional eight (8) weeks of benefit entitlement under that Plan, subject to the following conditions:
(a) an employee may use the
additional eight (8) weeks of entitlement only once during his employment, and notwithstanding Section 8 of » the Plan, the eight (8) weeks can never be restored;
(b> the additional eight (8) weeks of entitlement shall be the first weeks used.
SECTION 38 - TERMINATION CLAUSE
38,01	(a) ibis Agreement shall be in full
force and effect fmm the. 1st, of April iqa5_te	erf
December. 1987 and shall automatically continue from year to year for periods of one
- S3 -
year at a time, unless either patty serves notice on the other party not more than ninety (90) days and not less than thirty (30) days prior to an annual expiry date stating that negotiations for amendments are desired.
<b) When such notice has been given by either party bound by this Agreement, the parties shall meet within fifteen (15) days from the giving of the notice or within such further period as the parties may agree upon, and they shall bargain in good faith and make every reasonable effort to make a collective agreement.
(c)	A written list of the proposed changes shall be submitted at least thirty (30) days before the expiration date.
- 54 -
(d)	All conditions of this
Agreement are to remain in full force and effect until negotiations are completed and/or concilation proceedings exhausted.
Signed on behalf of Signed on behalf Component 325 by.	of the Company
by:
G. Greco
R. W. Scully
R. J. Starkey
W. H. Whitwham
H. P. Weminger
GUARANTEED WAGE PLAN
THIS AGREQfENT MADE THIS 7th day of JANUARY, 1986.
BETWEEN:
CARLING O'KEEFE BREWERIES OF CANADA LIMITED, TORONTO, ONTARIO
- and -
CANADIAN UNION OF BREWERY AND GENERAL WORKERS - 325,
COMPONENT OF N.U.P.G.E.
TORONTO, ONTARIO
WHEREAS the Company has entered into a Collective Agreement with the above named Union covering the Bargaining Unit in Toronto.
AND WHEREAS the said Parties have agreed to make this supplementary Agreement which is to be a supplement to the said Collective Agreement, and any grievances arising out of the administration of this supplement may be dealt with under the Grievance Procedure of the Collective Agreement.	.
■I THEREFORE the Parties agree to the continuation of the Guaranteed Wage Plan as hereinafter set forth .with such continuation to become effective on the 1st day of September, 1985 or on any later date on which approval for
- 56 -
continuation has been received from the Federa.’ Government holding that:
(a)	Hie Plan meets the requirement of Employment and Immigration Canada with respect to Supplemental Unemployment Benefit Plans,
(b)	Payments by the Company pursuant to this plan will be classed as deductible expenses for corporate income tax purposes, and,
(c)	Hie receipt by employees of the
benefits provided by this Plan wil2 wst	such
employees from receiving any part of the Unemployment Insurance Benefits to which they would otherwise be entitled.
1.	Purpose
Hie purpose of this Plan is to provide a methoc of guaranteeing income to certain employees whc are laid off and, separation pay in certain cases.
2.	Eligibility for Participation in the
Plan
Any regular hourly-rated employee having at least one year of seniority determined as of the September 1st immediately preceding his layoff shall be eligible to participate in this Plan.
- 57 -
Notwithstanding the above, employees not classified as regular employees prior to the date of ratification shall not te eligible to participate in this Plan prior to September 1, 1987.
3.	Exceptions
This Plan has no application to and provides no benefits for:
(a)	EJiiployees who have been laid off for disciplinary reasons and if such lay-off is questioned under the grievance Procedure of the collective Agreement final disposition of any grievance will determine the employee's status under the Plan.
(b)	Employees who have been laid off because of any strike! lockout, slowdown, picketing or other action by employees of this Company or by employees of any other employer who are represented for collective bargaining purposes by any of the Unions which were party to the Ontario Industry Memorandum of Agreement which led to the renewal of this Plan, or by any Local thereof or successor Unions thereto.
(c)	Employees who have been terminated because of specific direction or decree from any
- 58 -
Governmental authority which has the effect of curtailing any of the Company's operations: unless
(i)	the direction or decree is the result of an illegal act committed by the Company or one of its representatives, or
(ii)	the direction or decree to change the method of beer distribution or beer retailing within the Province of Ontario.
(d)	Employees who have been laid off because of any act of war or the hostile act of any foreign power or by any act of sabotage or insurrection or by any act of God.
(e)	Employees	who are laid	off	and
who have	arranged with	the
Company to take leave of absence without pay for a specific period in lieu of their lay-off. These employees will be deemed to have opted out of the Plan for such period.
4.	Disqualification	for Benefits
An employee who has been laid off and who would otherwise be eligible for participation in the
- 59 -
Plan shall not receive any payments under the Plan for any week:
(i)	In which he has been on layoff and has failed to apply for U.I. benefits, or in which he has been disqualified or disentitled from U.I. benefits by any reason other than serving a two (2) week waiting period.
(ii)	In which he has been on layoff and has failed to keep himself
' registered for employment with the Canada Manpower Centre in those cases where such registration is necessary to qualify for U. I. benefits or for reduction of U. I. waiting period.
(iii)	In which he has failed or refused to accept employment deemed suitable for him by the Unemployment Insurance Commission.
(iv)	In which he has failed to accept and report for any
.	appropriate work assignment of
at least one normal working day unless excused for reasonable cause.
- 60 -
(v)	In which he is in receipt of a benefit provided by the Company's insured Weekly Indemnity or Long Term Disability Plans.
(vi)	After he has become entitled to receive any pension under the Company or Government Pension Plan.
(vii)	In respect of which he is qualified for compensation from the Worker's compensation Board for any compensable accident or illness.
5.	Definitions
For the purposes of this Plan:
"Wages" shall mean actual earnings for work performed and vacation pay, payment for any leave of absence with pay granted, e.g. jury duty, bereavement pay, payment for Statutory Holidays and call-in pay.
"Week" shall mean the Company's payroll week.
"Compensated and available hours”
■eans as applied to any particular week for any employee:
(a)	All hours worked by the
employee for the company or for any other employer in such week, plus
- 61 -
(b)	All hours not worked by the employee in such week but for which he receives wages from any employer, plus
(c)	All hours scheduled in such week for an employee who is not on layoff and which he has not worked for any reason other than lack of work, plus
(d)	All hours scheduled in such week for an employee who is on layoff and which he has not worked for any reason other than lack of work after being given reasonable notice according to the established practice of the Company that such scheduled hours were available to be worked by him.
"Week of layoff" means a week in which the employee's compensated and available hours are less than forty (40).
6.	Benefits Provided for Laid Off
Employees
Subject to the terns and conditions of the Plan as herein set out each eligible employee who is laid off from the Bargaining Unit shall receive in addition to any wages earned in the week a benefit from the Plan for each week of layoff calculated by determining the product of items 1, 2 and 3 below and deducting from such product the sum of item 4 below.
- 62 -
(1)	Seventy percent (70J») for eligible employees as hereinabove defined.
(2)	The straight time hourly rate of the employee in effect as of time of layoff.
(3)	The excess of forty (40) over the compensated and available hours of the employee.
(4)	The actual benefit, if any, for which such employee is eligible under the Unemployment Insurance Act for such week.
7.	Welfare Benefits Daring Layoff
An employee who is laid off continues to participate in the Welfare Plan of the company applicable to employees in his Bargaining Unit to the end of the month following the last month in which he has worked in the Bargaining Unit, or until the end of the last month during which he has drawn a benefit under this Plan, whichever is the later. Welfare Plan for the purpose of this section does not include the Pension Plan or the Company's insured Weekly Indemnity and Long Term Disability Plans which cover only indemnity for wages actually lost because of illness or accident.
An employee on layoff who, pursuant to the above has ceased to participate in the Welfare Plan is restored to participation immediately upon completion of eight (8) hours work in the Bargaining Unit.
- 63 -
8.	Duration of benefits
The maximum benefit entitlement of an employee at any time shall not exceed that benefit established in accordance with Table 'A'. However, the employee's actual benefit entitlement will be less than the maximum benefit entitlement if he has used any benefit: and has not subsequently restored them.
Weeks of benefits are restored based upon the formula of l/10th of a week for each eight (8) full hours during which the employee earned wages from the Company up to the employee's maximum benefit entitlement set out in Table 'A' below, (to credits towards future benefit entitlements are allowed for wages earned during any period A?	the asipiojee is
already entitled to the maximum benefits set out in Table 'A'.
TABLE "A"
Completed years of Seniority Determined as of the September 1st immediately preceding _______his layoff
15 Years or more 10 Years or more 5 Years or more 4 Years or more 3 Years or more 2 Years or more 1 Year or more
Maximum Benefit Entitlement
78 Weeks of benefits 65 Weeks of benefits 52 Weeks of benefits 45 Weeks of benefits 35vWeeks of benefits 25 Weeks of benefits 15 Weeks of benefits
- 65 -
Hie maximum nuntoer of weeks of benefits which an employee may use during any twelve (12) month period commencing September 1st shall not exceed his Maximum Benefit Entitlement determined as of that September 1st in accordance with Table 'A' above.
Each eligible employee's weeks of benefits shall be decreased by one week for each week in respect of which he is on layoff and in receipt of benefits for more than thirty-two (32) hours; and by 4/5ths of one week for each week in which he is on layoff and in receipt of benefits for more than twenty-four (24) hours; and by 3/5ths of one week for each week in which he is on layoff and in receipt of benefits for more than sixteen (16) hours; and by 2/5ths of one week for each week in which he is on layoff and in receipt of benefits for more than eight (8.) hours; and by l/5tb of a week in which he is on layoff and in receipt of benefits for eight (8) hours or less: and his weeks of benefits shall also be decreased by one week for each week in which he is on layoff but was disqualified for any of the reasons set out in subsections (i), (ii), (iii), and (iv) of Section 4.
9.	Deductions
Any payment made under this Plan shall be subject to any deductions required by Federal, Provincial or Municipal authority or by the provisions of the Collective Agreement, or by voluntary authorization from the employee concerned.
- 66 -
10.	Separation Pay
An employee shall be eligible for a separation payment as set forth below if on any date during his layoff the hours scheduled for him during the previous twelve consecutive months were less than fifty percent {5056) of normal full-time hours if he is not eligible for any Company or Government pension or for benefits under the Company's insured Weekly Indemnity or Long Term Disability Plans.
However, if the Company permanently discontinues an operation, an employee laid off as a result thereof may apply for and receive separation pay without waiting the six months' period.
An employee eligible for a separation payment hereunder must apply for it not later than six months after he first becomes eligible therefor, otherwise his right to such payment shall be cancelled.
In special cases where a laid off employee appears to have little prospect of recall to regular jiis-rAr wit.bi.r a period of six months he may request immediate termination and severance pay, and with the concurrence of the Company and the Union this may be granted notwithstanding the eligibility clause above.
If an employee applies for and accepts a separation payment hereunder, his employment is terminated and his seniority and other rights under the Collective Bargaining Agreement are cancelled.
- 67 -
The amount of the separation payment of an eligible employee shall be equal to the sum of:
(a)	One week's base earnings (computed on the basis of his
hourly rate in effect as of time of layoff) multiplied by the number of his completed years of seniority as of the last day he actively worked in the Bargaining Unit, plus
(b)	$95.00 multiplied by a number equal to the number of unused weeks of benefit entitlement which an employee has to his credit at the date of his separation.
11.	Applications
Employees shall be required to observe such rules and follow such procedures and make such reports and applications as shall be prescribed by the Company after consultation with the Union. The willful falsification of any fact material to the determination of an employee's benefit rights under the Plan shall result in the forfeiture of any benefit rights he nay have under the Plan for a period of twelve (12) months subsequent to the discovery of such falsification, and this shall not preclude any other disciplinary action which may be imposed subject to the Grievance Procedure of the Collective Agreement.
- 68 -
12.	Reporting.
The Company will make periodic reports to the Union weekly while employees are laid off and receiving benefits under the Plan and quarterly if no employees are on layoff, giving the Union complete information as to the number of employ* who have been laid off, the duration thereof, the payments made to each individual under the Plan, the number of ineligible and disqualified employees, and such other similar information as may be relevant.
13.	IXiration of Agreement
'This Agreement shall continue until August 31, 1988.
During negotiations for renewal of the relevant Collective Agreement, the Union is free to request amendments to this Agreement which shall also be part of such negotiations, but on the understanding that any amendments to this
- 69 -
Agreement will not take effect any earlier than September 1, 1988.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto have affixed their signatures this 7th day of January, 1986.
Signed on behalf of Signed on behalf of the
Component 325:	Company:
G. Greco	R. W. Scully
R. J. Starkey	H. H. Whitwham
H. F. Weininger
- 70 -
MEMORANDUM RE:	PENSION PLAN BENEFITS
The following Pension Plan benefits will be effective as of January 1, 1985 for all regular employees and for newly hired employees when they attain seniority following that date.
1.	Scope and Coverage
This Memorandum covers all seniority employees who are represented in collective bargaining by the Union.
Each participating employee will receive a certificate showing that he has been registered and enrolled under the Plan.
The terms, conditions and funding arrangements of said Plan will be revised in such nanner and detail as ia the sole opinion of the Company are necessary or desirable to effectively and fully implement the understandings herein enumerated.
2.	Benefits Accrued up until December 31,
1573-------:---------------------------
In respect to benefits actually earned and accrued up to and including December 31, 1973 by the employees who were covered by the former Pension Plans introduced July 2, 1937 and August 1, 1962, the letter being amended January 1, 1965, January 1, 1966, July 16, 1968, September 4, 1968 and April 20, 1971, it is understood and agreed that such benefits shall
- 71 -
continue to the credit of the individual employee and to be exercisable in accordance with the terms and conditions applicable as of December 31, 1973 unless specifically modified or amended by this document.
Eligibility for Benefits from January,
i; 1974----------------------------------
As and from January 1, 1974 those employees who were participating members of the Pension Plan prior to January 1, 1974 shall automatically be eligible for all benefits accruing as hereinafter outlined on a non-contributory basis.
As and from January 1, 1974 all other present and future seniority employees shall be eligible for benefits accruing effective from the first day of the month following completion of 132 days of work in any twelve month period for a temporary employee or after 90 days of work in any twelve month period for a probationary employee.
Cost of Benefits
The cost of providing all pension benefits accruing from January 1, 1974 shall be borne by the Company.
Credited Service
Where the term "past credited service1 is used in this document, it shall
- 72 -
mean the total elapsed time for which an employee was covered under the Pension Plan for which contributions have been made and were not refunded up to and including December 31, 1973,
When the term "future credited service" is used in this document, it shall mean service on and after January 1, 1974 by an employee who has become eligible as defined in Section 3 above.
Future credited service shall be computed for each calendar year on the basis of one tenth (1/10) of a year's credited service for each 180 hours actually worked or for which wages have been paid. It is understood that wages shall mean actual earnings for work performed and vacation pay, payment for any leave of absence such as, for example, jury duty, crown Subpoenaed witness, bereavement pay, payment for statutory holidays, call-in pay and any period for which an employee is absent from work and in receipt of worker's Compensation or Weekly Indemnity payments. Earned credits in any calendar year shall in no case exceed one year of credited service and shall be calculated to the nearest one tenth (1/10) year of credited service.
onployees who are or become totally or permanently disabled and qualify for benefits under the insured Long Term Disability Plan shall continue to
- 73 -
accrue future credited service and pension credits at the rate of pension accrual in effect at the commencement of Long Term Disability payments with service computed as outlined in the previous paragraph. Such credits shall continue and Long Term Disability payments will only be made until he recovers, dies, or attains his normal retirement date and retires under the Plan.
6.	Normal Retirement Date
The normal retirement date shall be the first day of the month coincident with or next following the employee's 65th birthday and the earned and accrued retirement in- referred to in Section 2 hereof shall be payable commencing on that normal retirement date.
7.	Pension Payable on Normal Retirement
The amount of basic pension benefits payable for an employee who has reached normal retirement date shall be the amount as provided in Section 2 above.
Plus
A basic pension benefit of $9.00 per month per full year of future credited service or proportionate credit to the nearest one tenth (1/10) of a year as outlined in Section 5 to December 31, 1979.
- 74
plus
A basic pension benefit of $13.00 per month per full year in 1980 from January 1 or proportionate credit.
plus
A basic pension benefit or $14.00 per month per full year in 1981 from January 1 or proportionate credit.
plus
A basic pension benefit of $15.00 per month per full year in 1982 from January 1 or proportionate credit.
plus
A basic pension benefit of $16.50 per month per full year in 1983 from January 1 or proportionate credit.
plus
A basic pension benefit of $17.25 per month per full year in 1984 from January 1 or proportionate credit.
plus
A basic pension benefit of $19.00 per month per full year in 1985 from January 1 or proportionate credit.
plus
- 75
A basic pension benefit of $19.50 per month per full year in 1986 from January 1 or proportionate credit.
plus
A basic pension benefit of $20.00 per month per full year in 1987 from January 1 or proportionate credit.
8.	Supplemental Pension Benefit
An employee who retires at normal retirement date and who has completed at least 30 years of credited service will be entitled to a supplementary monthly pension, if such supplement is necessary, sufficient to provide a minimum monthly Pension from Company Plans and the Canada Pension Plan combined as follows:
a)	For employees who retire before January 1, 1985, $944.00 per month.
b)	For employees who retire on or after January 1, 1985 but before January 1, 1986,
$1035.00 per month.
cl For employees who retire on or after January 1, 1986, but before January 1, 1987,
$1125.00 per month '
d) For employees who retire on or after January 1, 1987, $1205.00
par month.
- 76 -
fin employee who retires at his normal retirement date with less than 30 years credited service will receive the proportionate pension,
i.e. n ($1035.00 - C.P.P.) -3(7
Accrued Pensions, in accordance with the Existing Plan, where "n" equals the number of years of credited service.
If the Employee is eligible to receive the Canada Pension Plan benefits and does not apply for or loses part or all of such benefits through delay in applying for them, by earnings while eligible for such benefits, or other act or failure to act, the employee shall be deemed to be in receipt of such benefits for purposes of calculating the amount of any supplement.
The supplemental pensions calculated in accordance 'aii*. V-rc5 above
provisions are only payable during the lifetime of the employee.
9.	Special Early Retirement
An employee who has completed 30 years of credited service and attained his 60th birthday may elect to retire early on the first of any month following fulfilment of both these qualifications and will be entitled to receive his full accrued pension to
- 77 -
date without actuarial reduction. In addition, his basic pension benefits will be supplemented as follows:
a)	For employees who retire on or after January 1, 1985 but before January 1, 1986, a supplementary Pension to provide a minimum monthly pension of $1080-00 from Company Plans payable until normal retirement date. Thereafter, the supplement will be reduced to $1035.00 per month less any Canada Pension Plan Benefits.
b)	Effective January 1, 1986 the maximum monthly pension benefit will be $1,120.00 per month ' payable for his lifetime or until normal retirement date.
At normal retirement date, the supplement will be adjusted to $1125.00 per month less any Canada Pension benefits to which he is entitled.
c)	Effective January 1, 1987, the ■axiniin monthly pension benefit will be $1140.00 per month payable for his lifetime or until normal retirement date; the supplement will be adjusted to $1205.00 per month less any Canada Pension Benefits to which he is entitled.
- 78 -
10.
If the employee is eligible to receive the Canada Pension Plan benefits and does not apply for or loses part or all of such benefits through delay in applying for them, or other act or failure to act, the employee shall be deemed to be in receipt of such benefits rwronsM of calculating the amount of any supplement.
The supplemental pension calculated in accordance with the above provision is only payable during the lifetime of theemployee.
Permanent supplement and Escalation of Basic Benefits at Normal Retirement bate
As of January 1, 1977, ah employee who retires at his normal retirement date or retires under the 60/30 provisions and reaches normal retirement date shall have his supplement established and frozen at normal retirement date by using the total amount of his basic pensions and C.P.P. then in effect.
Any. subsequent increases in C.P.P. shall go to his benefit.
On January 1, 1975 and every January 1 thereafter, ah employee retiring after January 1, 1974 who reaches his normal retirement date will have his basic pensions only (excluding any supplement) escalated to a maximum of 2% based on the 12-month percentage increase of the Consumer Price Index
- 79 -
as of the previous September 1. An employee whose normal retirement date is January 1 will not receive any basic pension escalation until the following January 1.
11.	other Early Retirements
Any employee not retiring under Section 9 may retire early after attaining age 55 with Company consent, or voluntarily retire after attaining age 60. in each case the accrued basic pensions will be reduced by 4% a year for each year early retirement precedes age 65.
12.	Disability Retirement
For employees having attained age 50 and completed 10 years of service who become partially disabled, and retire under the disability provisions of the pension plans, a supplementary benefit of $7.00 per month multiplied by the number of years of credited service up to a maximum of 30 years. The supplement is payable until eligible to receive either a statutory disability or retirement benefit.
This supplement will be paid in addition to such employee's full accrued pension at time of disability retirement. ■
- 80 -
13.	Termination of Employment
Employees who terminate their employment after completing ten years of service and are not eligible for benefits in accordance with the provisions of Section 9 or 11, will be entitled to the benefits payable in accordance with the provisions of Section 7 (including Section 2) provided any contributions made prior to January 1, 1974 remain in the fund. Such benefits shall be payable from the normal retirement date.
14.	Spouse's Option
Bnployees retiring on and after January 1, 1974 may elect a spouse's option which will provide for a 10% reduction of the employee's basic pension, and on the employee's death the spouse would be entitled to 60% of the employee's reduced pension. If the spouse is more than 10 years younger than the employee, the actuarial reduction applicable to the widow's benefit of the existing plan will apply to this benefit.
15. continuation of Benefits after Retirement
Employees eligible for basic pension benefits derived from employment under the non-contributory plan after January 1, 1974 shall have said benefits continue as long as they live. Benefits for employment under the contributory plan prior to January 1, 1974 shall be for life for a minimum of 36 months, whichever is the longer.
- 81 -
16. Duration
this Pension Memorandum will be for three years and effective January 1, 1985.
WELFARE BENEFITS
She following changes will be effective on the dates shown for each item.
1.	Life Insurance and Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance_______________________
Effective April 1, 1985, Life Insurance and Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance shall be increased to provide $29,000.00 insurance coverage for employees actively at work on that day.
Effective January 1, 1986, the insurance coverage will be increased to $30,000.00 for employees actively at work on that day.
Effective January 1, 1987, the insurance coverage will be increased to $31,000.00 for employees actively at work on that day.
Bnployees not actively at work on the above named days shall only be provided increased insurance coverage upon their return to active employment.
2.	Dental Plan
Effective April 1, 1983, the maximum reimbursement for Basic services shall bf $600.00 per year.
- 82 -
Effective January 1, 1987, the maximum reimbursement for basic services shall be $650.00 per year.
3.	Major Medical
Hie expense benefits provisions of the Major Medical Plan will provide an annual reinstatement of up to $2,500.00 at the beginning of each calendar year if required to restore the maximum to the level of $10,000.00.
4.	Weekly Indemnity
"Insured Weekly Indemnity and Long Term Disability Plans:
In case of sickness or any non-occupational accident, a weekly benefit amounting to 7056 of wages (hourly rate x 40) in effect at any time during the 26-week period will be paid to eligible employees who are off work and under the care of a doctor. Payments will commence on the first day, if disability is due to an accident, and on the fourth day, if due to sickness, and will continue up to a maximum of 26 weeks for any one period of disability.
Where it is necessary for an employee to have dental surgery, claims under the Weekly Indemnity Plan will be recognized and payments will conmence on the fourth day and will continue up to a maximum of two weeks for any such claim upon the receipt of the proper certification by a dental oral surgeon.
- 83 -
An insured Long Term Disability Plan will begin at the end of the 26-week period of disability or at the end of a continuous period of 26 weeks during which an employee has received Worker's Compensation payments and continue until recovery or normal retirement date, whichever occurs first. The Plan will provide payment of 66 2/356 of wages (hourly rate x 40) in effect at any time during the first 78 weeks of the Long Term Plan. Following such period the payment will be 66 2/356 of wages (hourly rate x 40) in effect at the end of the said 78-week period. The Long Term Disability Plan and the Weekly Indemnity Plan will be of a standard nature which will include an offset clause for integrating statutory payments such as Canada Pension Plan and Unemployment Insurance, and in the case of long Ter* Disability, will also include an offset clause for integrating Worker's Compensation.
The Company is prepared to provide the necessary monies to build up the pension of persons receiving benefits from Long Ter* Disability Plan at the rate of pension accrual at the commencement of disability.
Commencing after the 26th week, and until 104 weeks from the date of disability, the eligibility for continuance of the coverage shall be inability to do a regular job available in the Bargaining Unit. Starting at the 105th week, eligibility for benefits
- 84 -
will depend on the employee's ability to perform duties at any job for any employer for which he is reasonably qualified by training, education or experience to perform."
Sick Leave
Effecti.vpsa!* January 1, all seniority
employees at work will be credited with six (6) days of Sick leave at the base hourly rate. These days are to be used to offset loss of pay caused by occasional illnesses of up to three normal working days which are not covered by the Weekly Indemnity Benefit Plan. Any unused portion of Sick Leave will be paid to the employee in cash on the last pay day before Christmas.
Employees who attain seniority during the year, shall be credited at one half their then existing daily basic wage rate, for each full month worked from the date they attain seniority.
Regular employees who have been absent for the full 12 month period shall not be entitled to sick leave credits.
Employees who terminate their employment or retire during the calendar year, shall receive Sick Leave benefits prorated at one-half their then existing daily basic wage rate for each full month worked from January 1 to their termination date less any sick days taken during this period.
- 85 -
5.	Welfare Coverage For Pensioners
Future pensioners who retireunder Section 9 of the Pension Memorandum, having attained age 60 and who no longer are gainfully employed in any occupation by withdrawing from the work force, shall have continued at Oxnpany expense the following:
1.	Life Insurance - $3,000.00
2.	O.H.I.P. (until age 65).
3.	Major Medical Plan.
- 86 -
January 2; 1985
Mr. G. Greco, President Opponent 325 One Carlingview Drive Rexdale, Ontario M9H 5E5
Dear Mr. Greco:
Biis letter will confirm our understanding reached during negotiations. It is understood that during the annual overhaul periods in the maintenance department, where Saturday Overtime is required for overhaul work, regular bottling maintenance mechanics ”A"s' who are not assigned to overhaul, will be offered this overtime work before the Temporary Mechanic's Helpers.
Yours very truly,
W. H. Hhitwbam
Vice President Operations
- 87 -
January 2, 1985
Mr. G. Greco
President Component 325 One Carlingview Drive Rexdale, Ontario M9W 5E5
Dear Mr. Greco:
As the result of discussion between the Company and Component 325, it is agreed that the following policy with regard to vacations will be put into effect following ratification of the Collective Agreement.
1. Deferment of Summer Vacation (Block Vacation)
On the first working day of each calendar year, a notice will be posted on all bulletin boards for 2 weeks advising employees that it is permissible to forego their summer vacation take that year's entire vacation entitlement in one continuous period outside the regular summer vacation time. Those desirous of doing so are to list their names. In order of seniority and within occupational groups, where applicable, the Company will approach those who have applied and will complete and post a schedule in conformity with the following two paragraphs.
With the exception of the Maintenance
- 88 -
Department, the period will commence on the first Monday following September 15 and end on the last Friday prior to the second Monday in June the following year. In the case of the Maintenance Department, it will be from September 15 to December 31, and from April 1 to the last Friday prior to the second Monday in June.
The following is the maximum number of men par week to be granted this privilege and, once confirmed, cannot be revoked by either the employee or the Company.
Bottling 6 Brewing 2 Maintenance 3 Shipping and Receiving 2 Kegging 1
Employees waiving summer vacation and taking all their vacation in the off season cannot be bumped from their preferred time by someone of higher seniority who has had summer vacation.
The Company agrees to notify all applicants by January 31st whether they have confirmed dates, so that anyone who is unsuccessful in obtaining "Block Vacation" can still apply for regular summer vacation.
Each department, in calculating the total number of employees normally granted vacation time off each week,
- 89 -
will include in the count those who have been given advance confirmation of their total vacation entitlement in the off season, i.e., "Block Vacation".
2. Early Service Vacation and Regular Summer Vacation
From February 1st to February 21st of each year, the "early service weeks" and regular summer vacation schedule will be posted. Employees will indicate their preference of dates during that time period.
From February 22nd to March 15th the company will make the selection, in accordance with present practice. The number of employees allocated on vacation at any given time cannot be exceeded. This may result in junior employees having to make a second choice. The final approved schedule for the above will be posted on March 16th of that year.
Yours truly,
W. H. Whitwham
Vice President Operations
- 90 -
January 2, 1985
Mr. G. Greco, President Component 325 One Carlingview Drive Rexdale, Ontario M9W 5E5
Dear Mr. Greco:
In lieu of the Conpany laundering one set of uniforms per week at no cost to the employees, seniority employees will receive a payment of $90.00 per year which will be paid within one month of the signing of the Agreement and annually on the anniversary date of its signing thereafter unless changed by mutual agreement.
Employees who attain seniority in future will receive a pro rata sum to coincide with the anniversary date.
Employees supplied with uniforms must wear same while at work.
yours truly.
W. H. Whitwham
Vice President Operations
- 91 -
January 2, 1985
Mr. G. Greco, President Component 325 One Carlingview Drive Rexdale, Ontario M9W 5E5
Dear Mr. Greco:
RE: MAINTENANCE VACATIONS
It is understood and agreed that because of the vacation restrictions placed on maintenance employees during the annual overhauls, it is the Company's intention to continue the present practice of scheduling summer vacations during the 14-week period commencing on the second Monday in June.
Further, during the service vacation period as outlined in Section 15.02, because of the limited number of vacation weeks available, the Company will grant an additional man/week of vacation in the last week of a multiple week overhaul to a Mechanic "A" if he is not scheduled on said overhaul, in order to provide a greater choice of weeks.
Yours truly,
W. H. Hhitwham
Vice President Operations
- 92 -
January 2, 1985
Mr. G. Greco, President Component 325 One Carlingview Drive Rexdale, Ontario M9W 5E5
Dear Mr. Greco:
Re:	Contracting Out
During negotiations, the subject of contracting out was discussed.
It is the Company's intention to continue the practice of giving priority to its own employees in performing maintenance, overhaul and painting work, provided it has the manpower, skills, equipment and facilities to do so, within the projected tise lisits.
When it is necessary to contract out, the Company will inform the Union.
Yours truly,
W. H. Whitwham
vice President Operations
- 93 -
January 2, 1985
Mr. G. Greco, President Component 325 One Carlingview Drive Rexdale, Ontario M9W 5E5
Dear Mr. Greco:
Re: Pool Allowance
The Company agrees to maintain the present practice with respect to tool allowance. ,
The tool allowance will be pro-rated, based on one-twelfth (1/12) of the tool alowance for each month (or part thereof) actually worked as a regular tradesman.
Yours truly,
W.H. Whitwham,
Vice President Operations
- 94 -
January 2, 1985
Mr. G. Greco, President Cbraponent 325 One Carlingview Drive Rexdale, Ontario M9W 5E5
Dear Mr. Greco:
It is agreed and understood by both parties that any changeover of labeller parts necessary to run a different set of labels on the world Labellers will be done by the Maintenance Mechanics.
Yours truly,
W.H. Whitwham
Vice President Operations
- 95 -
January 2, 1985
Mr. G. Greco, President Component 325 One Carlingview Drive Rexdale. Ontario M9W 5E5
Dear Mr. Greco:
The Company will undertake, upon the request of an employee, to advance monies on Lost Time Workers' Compensation Claims up to weekly indemnity limits so long as the employee has complied with the proper reporting requirements under the Ontario Workers' Compensation Act.
Yours truly,
W.H. Whitwham
Vice President Operations
- 96 -
January 2, 1985
Mr. G. Greco, President component 325
One Carlingview Drive ____
Rexdale, Ontario M9W oeo
Dear Mr. Greco:
This Letter of Intent will serve to confirm our understanding reached at negotiations.
The Company will, upon the request of an employee, give due consideration to advance monies pending the commencement of weekly indemnity payments, if the following conditions exist:
(a)	It is beyond the control of the employee;
(b)	A weekly indemnity claim has been properly submitted by the employee with no undue delay:
(c)	The claim has been approved and the payment of the claim is delayed.
Repayment of such advance will be effected-immediately upon the commencement of weekly indemnity payments.
Yours truly,
W.H. Whitwham
Vice President Ooeratinns
- 97 -
January 2, 1985
Mr. G. Greco, President Component 325
One Carlingview Drive	.
Rexdale, Ontario M9W 5E5
Dear Hr. Greco:
The Company agrees to pay the cost of a letter from a doctor regarding proof of illness, if such letter is requested by the Company.
Yours truly.
H.H. Whitwham
Vice President Operations
- 98 -
January 2, 1985
Mr. G. Greco, President Component 325 One Carlingview Drive Rexdale, Ontario M9W 5E5
Dear Mr. Greco:
Tax Deductions From Weekly Indemnity and Long Term Disability
EJnployees will have a flat 15% deducted at source from their Weekly Indemnity or Long Term Disability cheques.
The Insurance Company will then issue the appropriate income tax slips each year.
Yours truly,
W.H. Whitwham
Vice President Operations
January 2, 1985
Mr. G. Greco, President Component 325 One Carlingview Drive Rexdale, Ontario M9W 5E5
Dear Mr. Greco:
An employee who becomes ill or is injured after having commenced his vacation and as a result is hospitalized or forced to cancel his vacation and return home, may, if qualified for Weekly Indemnity coverage, apply to postpone any remaining full week(s) of vacation and enrol in the Weekly Indemnity Plan. The employee must contact his supervisor or the Personnel Department immediately and must comply with the normal Weekly Indemnity reporting provisions.
All approved requests will result in the employee's ws&ainittg full 'treats', vacation
being cancelled the day after the request is received and in his being enrolled in the plan. Bie remaining vacation time shall be re-scheduled at a time mutually agreeable to the Company and the employee.
Any vacation pay held by the employee for the cancelled period shall be returned to the
100 -
Cbmpany and shall be re-issued for the re-scheduled vacation period.
Yours truly.
W.H. Whitwham
Vice President Operation
- 101 -
January 2, 1985
Mr. G. Greco
Component 325
One Carlingview Drive
Rexdale, Ontario M9W 5E5
Dear Mr. Greco:
Re: Retail Store
This will confirm the understanding reached during 1985 negotiations covering the Retail Store Operation.
Should active retail sale to the Public be re-instituted by the Company, the clauses and language deleted from the agreement, which expired December 31, 1984, will be replaced in the then current agreement.
Should the Employee Store position be declared vacant by the Company, it shall be posted in accordance with Article 13.07 of the Collective Agreement, expiring December 31, 1987.
Yours truly,.
W.H. Whitwham
Vice President Operations
- 102 -
January 2, 1985
Mr. G. Greco, President Component 325 One Carlingview Drive Rexdale, Ontario M9W 5E5
Dear Mr. Greco:
Effective May 1, 1980, the elected President of Component 325 will be paid the equivalent of the Mechanic "B" rate as defined in Section 27 - Wage Rates.
Yours truly.
W.H. Whitwham Vice President Operations
- 103 -
March 15, 1985
Mr. G. Greco, President Component 325 One Carlingview Drive Rexdale, Ontario M9W 5E5
Dear Mr. Greco:
During the last stages of the recent labour management negotiations, the company agreed to certain requests with regard to future employees classed as Mechanic "A" in the Packaging Maintenance Department at this particular plant. During the existence of the current agreement, i.e. until December 31,
1987, the Company will schedule new hirees to the position of Mechanic "A" on the midnight shift. This scheduling will occur only when such new hirees are fully trained.
The new hirees will remain on a steady midnight shift where such shift is deemed necessary by departmental management until a vacancy arises in the remainder of the Mechanic “A" staff. At this time, the most senior new hires will take over such vacancy and will then become subject to rotation on days, afternoons and midnight shift, as is again deemed necessary.
Yours truly,
H.H. Whitwham
Vice President Operations
- 104 -
January 2, 1985
Mr. G. Greco, President Component Union 325 One Carlingview Drive Rexdale, Ontario M9W 5E5
Dear Mr. Greco:
Letter re: Lieu Days; Article 14.05
lt)e normal mariber of employees who may be allowed to schedule lieu days on any day will
be as follows:
Bottleshop	4
Brewing	1
Maintenance	2
Shipping	2
If the Department Head allows less than the normal number of employees to receive the same lieu day, he will inform the Union as to the reason for his decision.
YOU-S truly.
W.H. Whitwham
Vice President Operations
- 105 -
January 2, 1985
Mr. G. Greco, President Component 325 One Carlingview Drive Rexdale, Ontario M9W 5E5
Dear Mr. Greco:
Deferred Retirement — Letter of Intent
Should mandatory retirement at age 65 be no longer permitted by law in this province and a regular employee continues in employment beyond ms normal retirement uate, trie ronowiny conditions shall govern such employment and be added to the Collective Agreement.
1.	The Pension to which the employee has become entitled at his normal retirement date (the "Pension") shall be frozen as of the employee's normal retirement date as defined in the Pension Plan.
2.	The employee's Pension shall become payable as of the first day of the month immediately following the month the employee ceased to be employed with the Company or as of the first day of the month immediately preceding the employee's seventy-first (71) birthday, whichever shall first occur (the "Pension Date") .
3.	The employee's Pension will include any escalation benefits which occur from his
- 106 -
normal retirement date to his Pension Date.
4.	NO contribution to the Pension Plan will be made after the employee has reached his normal retirement date and no service shall be credited after the aforementioned date.
5.	An employee's Pension will not be affected by any amendments made to the Pension Plan after the employee's normal retirement date.
6.	An employee's Pension benefits will be actuarially reviewed effective as at the Pension Date having regard to the employee's Pension having been deferred since his normal retirement date.
7.	For purposes of calculation, any minimum pension supplement, the Canada Pension. Plan and old age security benefits, where applicable, will be taken into account at the level in effect at the employee's normal retirement date.
8.	An employee who continues in the employ of the company after his normal retirement date, as defined in the Pension Plan, shall be entitled to only the insured welfare benefits provided to
- 107 -
eitployees on retirement as at his normal retirement date.
FOR THE UNION
FOR THE COMPANY
G. Greco
R. W. Scully
R. J. Starkey
W. H. Whitwham H. F. Weininger
- 108 -
January 2, 1985
Mr. G. Greco, President Component 325 One Carlingview Drive Rexdale, Ontario M9W 5E5
Dear Mr. Greco:
An employee's eligibility for sick days and participation in the Weekly Indemnity and Long Term Disability Plans ceases immediately upon his layoff and is reinstated upon his recall to work and completion of eight (8) hours work in the Bargaining Unit.
Notwithstanding the above, an employee with ten (10) or more years seniority who is laid off, and who, if recalled within two (2) weeks or less, is unable to report to work due to sickness or non-occupational accident, shall be eligible for participation in the Weekly Indemnity and Long Term Disability Plans, effective the date of his recall.
Yours truly.
W.H. Hhitwham
Vice President Operations
- 109 -
January 2, 1985
Mr. G. Greco, President
Component 325
One Carlingview Drive
Rexdale, Ontario M9W 5E5
Dear Mr. Greco:
Letter of Intent
Notwithstanding Section 2 (Eligibility for Participation in the Plan) of the GWP, employees classified as probationary employees on the date of ratification, shall be eligible to participate in the Plan provided they achieve seniority and have at least one (1) year of seniority determined as of the September 1st immediately preceding layoff.
Notwithstanding Section 37.02, (Technological Change), the additional eight (8) weeks of benefit entitlement in sub-paragraphs (i) and (ii) shall also apply to employees who were classified as probationary employees in March 1985, provided they meet all the other requirements of the Technological Change section.
Yours truly.
H.H. Hhitwham
Vice President Operations
- no -
March 14, 1985
Mr. G. Greco, President Component 325 One Carlingview Drive Rexdale, Ontario M9W 5E5
Dear Mr. Greco:
Job/Shift Assignment
This will confirm the understanding reached during 1985 negotiations.
During the term of this Agreement, the Company and Union will establish a committee consisting of three (3) members from the Union and three (3) members from Management to discuss job and shift assignments.
Such discussions are intended to address the Union's concerns in respect to consistent assignment practices including a recognition of seniority application where operationally practical.
It is further understood that such discussions will recognize the Company's objective and need for maintaining optimum operational efficiencies.
yours truly.
W.H. Hhitwham
Vice President operations
- Ill -
This will confirm that all references to the Canadian Union of United Brewery, Flour,
Cereal, Soft Drink and Distillery Workers Local 325 in the Ontario Industry Memorandum of Settlement dated March 15, 1985 and related documents shall be deemed to apply to the Canadian Union of Brewery and General Workers 325.
FOR THE UNION	FOR THE COMPANY
G. Greco	R. W. Scully
R. J. Starkey	W. H. Whitwham
H. F. Weininger