CCLLBCTIVR AORCSMRXT
BETWEEN
BREWERY, HALT, AND BOPT DR I Hit WORKERS
LOCAL 304 TORONTO, ONTARIO
AND
LABATT'B ONTARIO BREWERIES DIVISION OP LABATT BREWtNO COMPANY LIMITED
(METRO TOROHTO BREWERY)
11*1 - 1943 - 1»93
THIS EDITION 19 PREPAID POR PURP1 ACCURATE REFERENCE, RECOURSE IBOVJ
bearing the original signatures oi
LEGALLY BIDING DOCUMENT ZS THAT N ORIGINAL SIGNATURES.
I OP CONVENIENCE ONLY. AM} 7CR 18 HAD TO TBE COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT Cl PRINCIPALS. TBE OFFICIAL !B CONTAINS THOSE AFOREMENTIONED
I wail
■action >5 • ■action at • ■action IS * xaetioa 27 ■ 33 •
■action 2S * ■action ?	•
■action 1? •
Saction 34 Section 5 ' Saction 20 •
section 3S -section 10 -Saction 29 * •action 4	-
Saction 1$ -•action S -section 1 -Saction 14 ■
■action 13 -
Saction 2 1 Saction 31 • Saction 24 1
Section 14 ■ ■action 21 -Saetloo 30 ■ faction 9 * •aetion »3 * •aotion H •

Bereavement................ 42
Cost Of Living Allowance,................... 4S
Disciplinary Action. ....................... 17
Duplication of Benefits.. .1...............   49
Duration and Revision of
Agreement... ...............
Education Leave of Absence,. •..
Establishment of Seniority....
Grievance Procedure.........................  19
oroup xneuranoa plana........................  85
Guaranteed Wage Plan... .....................  45
Guaranteed wage Plan.......................   105
Health and aafaty............................ 42
Hiring Practice.............................   4
Hour# of Work and Overtime Pay...............  25
(A)	Except Highway Drivers Employed on Highway Tranaport
Vtorit...............;.................. 25
(B)	Highway Drivers Employed on
Highway Tranaport Wodk.................  32
Jury Duty..................................   43
Layoff sod Recall........i................... 10
Letters of intent..........................    45
Management Function*.........................   3
Mo Strikes or Lockouts......................
Postings - Seniority LLete..................
Preamble. ..................................
Promotions to supervisory
Positions...............................       15
Promotions. Transfers, vacancies
Por Bargaining Unit Jobs..................... 15
Provincial Hospital and Mfdical Plana......	104
Rates for Transferred E<jtp|.oyece,...........	13
Retirement Plan.............................   53
scope Of Bargaining Unit...................    2
Separation Pay.............................   4B
Sick Leave................................... 41
Sick Leave..................................   52
Sickness and-Disability...
Statutory Holidays........
Technological Change.....
Termination of Seniority.' Tool Allowance...........
Transfers of Seniority....
18
33
1
Section* - Uaioa Activltic ............................... 5
Section 29 - Union Leave of enee.....................	44
Section 3 - Union Security)	.......... 3
Section 22 - Vacation.......	................ 34
Section 19 - Wage Rates and ssiflcatlons............... 23
Section 34 - Welfare Plan... .............................. 41
OOULCCTlVt LABOUR AORUMKKT
AOftlKMAVV entered into this 2nd day of February 1M1»
BRAWtRT, MALT AND SOFT DAXMX WORKERS, LOCAL 30* The Party of tha Piret Part
and
1AAATC'a ONTARIO BRAWKXXKa, DIVISION OP LABATT IRANI IM COMPANY LIMI1
(METRO TORONTO BR1W1RY), TORONTO, ONTARIO, harainafter called tha 1 company".
Tha Party of tha Saoond Part
WXTHBSSCTKi
In eonaidaration of tha nutual term* and eovananta harainaftar containad, it is hereby agreed by and between tha parties hereto at followai
•1-
1.01
WHBRSA8, the parties hi establishing and maintaining the company which will tend terms of employment and con< the Company and the Union, i peaceful adjustments of all the parties hereto or betwe« who are affected by this Agr« far aa possible, unintei stabilization Of the Company and ethical conduct of the and ethical conduct of the 1 Company and the employees.
eto desire to co-operate in roper and suitable conditions in to secure uniform and equitable tions of labour satisfactory to d to provide methoda of fair and disputes that may arise between those represented by them and ment, and in order to ensure, so upted operations and general i business, to ensure a proper uelness, and to ensure a proper siness and relations between the
MCttf 2
SCOFK OF THE HA] tJHfMO UNIT
•2+
2.02	New classifications be added|to this 9teup from time to time when mutually agreed upon between the parties hereto.
2.03	Supervisory personnel, not members Of the bargaining unit, may work in emergency situations or train, or demonstrate.
2.04	In this agreement the masculine|pronoun shall include the feminine unless the context indicate* otherwise.
SECTION 3 UNION SECURITY |
3.01	Employees os the bargaining unit as sat out in section 2 who have attained seniority, shall bfcctae and remain members in good standing of the Union for the duration of this Agreement SB B condition of employment. Th^i Union agrees that it will not refuse membership to any employ** of the Company without just cause.
3.02	Temporary employees shall be required to obtain a permit card from the Union at the time of commencement of esployment.
SECTION 4
MANAGEMENT FUNCTIONS
4.01	The Union acknowledges that it L# the exclusive function of the Company to:
a.	Maintain order, discipline and efficiency.
b.	Hire, discharge, transfer, promote, demote or discipline employees provided that the claim that a seniority or probationary employee has been discharged, transferred, demoted or disciplined without just cause may be dealt with as hereinafter provided.
-3-
4.02	It i* understood that in Company must conform to all c
tcczic
BXKXN9 M
5.01	In ths matter of amploymont, to unemployed members of competent to perform th« work kept by the Secretary Of company upon application.
5.02	The Company may employ tem| requirements. The Union aha of the reqeired fee, a Union
5.03	The Company will oontinue ai voluntary revocable dues ds monthly dues and assessments pay in each month for and i monies shall be paid
exercising these functions the her elauaee of this Agreement.
9
cries
the Company will give preference ocel 204 in goad standing and A lift of such members will be the Union and furnished to the
rary employees to fill seasonal 1 issue to such men, on payment mzmit card.
agent for the Union the present uction agreement and all Union •hall be deducted from the fLrat behalf of all employees. such
-4-
to the Secretary-Treasurer of the Union not later than the 15th day of each month accompanist with a liat of ftimaa of all empleyeea for and In behalf of whom much deduction* hava been made. Konthly atateaenta ahowing tha names of all additiona and dalatlon. of much employees ahalL alao bo forvardad to tho Seeratary-Treaeurer of tho union. Xn tho event that any aueh doduotiona tea not made foe reasons of slekneas, vacations, leave of absence, etc., they ahall bo made from tho firat pay Of tho next following month in which wages are owing to aueh eeployees.
$•04 Tha Union will inform tho Accounting Department of any Union arrangamanta in force regarding exception of payment of Union dues.
$.05 in the event that the Company engages new employees not on the unemployed list, these new employed! will be required to sign a dues authorisation eard at tho tinjs of hiring.
SECTION $
UNION ACTIVITIES
6.01	No employee ahall be discriminated against or discharged for hia activity as a union member or I for doing Committee or other work for the Union, provided, however, that permiaaion from the Company la obtained if suoh aetivitiea occur during the working houxa. It it agreed that auoh permisaion, if requeated, will not be unreasonably withheld.
-5-
6.02	The Plant chairman shall b< regular job to carry out ) providing, however, that supervisor, such permissior
6.03	Departmental Stewards shall their regular jobs to carry Departments providing, howi from their Supervisor, unreasonably withheld. On t privilege shall apply to th<
sict:
BSTABLISBMEIT
7.01	At the time of their be: classified SB either Pr<
Employees and the Union ehal
7.02	Probat ionary Employees will are hired to become memberi will achieve seniority aftei been reclassified from Ten] actually worked ninety (9( from the date of such i reelaesified shall not hi Temporary employee coun'
iven reasonable time off from hie Ueioe duties within the plant, receives permission from his ill not be unreasonably withheld.
e given reasonable time off from t their Union duties within their r, that they receive permission Such permission will not be ' absence of the Steward, the same lternate Steward.
7
r SENIORITY
I hired, new employees shall be tionary Employees or Temporary be notified of such.
e defined as thosa employees who f the permanent work force. They inety (90) days worked or, having ary to Probationary status, have deye as a Probationary employee
7.03	Temporary Employees will be defined ** thoee employee* hired
tot seasonal peek periodI, vacation end sick relief, end ehort tsn	iequit«e*nt*| or emergency aituitlont.
Temporery Imployeee mey be employed for one hundred end thirty-two (132) dey* worked within e period of one (1) year before they achieve aeniority. A year ia defined in etch particular ease at twelve (12) months following the date on which he first commences work With the Company. Temporary employeea shall have no rights, benefits or aeoass to the grievanee/erbitretLon provisions under the Collective Agreement exoept where specifically stated.
7.04	The Company agrees to recognise Ijhe seniority rights of ell employees who are member* of the tfnion. Seniority will be the determining factor in lay-off eg provided in Section 10 and choice of annual vacation period.
7.05	Each employee will heve aeniority ^tending In the Department in which he 11 employed. Except in <he eaaaa of employees whose seniority rights have been established, Probationary Employee's seniority will be dated one hundred and twenty-aix (126) calendar days prior to the shift day on which he completes his probationary service, provided that), such date will not be prior to his starting date.
7.06	An employs* doea net h*v» permanent and hi a aenior dates will remain unchai within one month of firat )
evidence to the company changed.
sect
P08TIK0S - I
6.01	The Company agreea to con] lists of all Usioa emp corrected twice yearly, shall mean:
Brewing Central Stores Garage
Maintenance
SEC I
TERMIMATIOI
9.01	Seniority will cease for si
reniority rights until he becomes l date Is established. Seniority id provided that an employes may. iting of his seniority date, submit and the Union to have such date
Nf 6
iioRirr lists
le end post departmental seniority 'ees which shall be mended and The Departments referred to above
Packaging
Staging
Transportation
IN 9
If SENIORITY
of the following reaaonat
(a) Where a permanent emp -e# voluntarily resigns. All such resignations shall be writing and signed by the employee concerned.
(b) Where an employee is discharged for cause.
<t) Where an employee obtains l#ave cf absence for reasons other than those given when the reguest was made, or for accepting unauthorized employment while on leave of absence, unauthorised employment ie mployment not approved by the Company and the Union.
(d)	Failure to notify the Company (accepting a call back to
work	after a lay-off) within aeventy-two (72) houra
(excluding Saturday and Sunday) of recall notification by regietered mail at the last address on file with the Conpany, and failure to report to work within seven (7) days of the aooeptanoe of recall.
(e) When in employee hea his name withdrawn from Union membership. In the event this should occur, the union will give the Company in writing the reason for such action.
(f)	In case Of lay-off for a period of twelve (12) months for employees with lese than five) (S) years seniority and in ease of lay-off far a period of twenty-four (24) months for employees with five (S) or sure years seniority.
-9-
•SCT >1 10 LAY-OFF I MCAU,
10<01 The following Onion Vice-President, Recording tho Conpany) and tho Lot hold top plant and departr of offieo for tho purpose <
10(02 Onion Steward* shall ho,' thoir terms of office for •vent that more than one ei Order of their seniority t be interpreted as being tl above.
10,0) In the CSSS of lay-off, tl first plant-wide, with the eervicea are mutually deer Operation of the Compel anticipated period of one order of departmental sen: than five (5) years sen: necessary to lay-off emplt seniority, then these nu junior employees In Otl employee exercising such t lay-off only and their eel will not be effected.
iscutlve Offlcerei President. ’retsry-Treesurer (if employees of 304 Lebett Representative, shell ;*1 seniority during their terms .ay-off only.
iop departmental seniority during i purpose of lay-off only. In the >yeo holds top seniority, then the the purpose of lay-off only will >rder in which they ere mentioned
>rary employees shall be laid off :eption of skilled tradesmen whose to be essential for the efficient Thereafter, lay-offa for an ith or more shall occur in reverse .ty insofar Si employees with lees .ty ere concerned. If it becomes IB with five (5) or more yeare of till be allowed to replace more departments provided that the Ite will do SO for the period of :lty in their original Department
10.04	Permanent employees recalled to work in Another department will not transfer their seniority rights to the department to which they are recalled.
10.05	Except In the east of extreme emergency, the Company will give permanent employee*! who Are to be laid off, notice on the bulletin boards three (3) working days prior to lay-off. If the employee le on leave of absence, ox absent through sickness, or on Kate.1 Compensation at the time of the lay-off, he shall be subject to the lay-off provisions the saste as If he were an active status.
10.06	Any employee who is laid off or continues to be laid off in violation of seniority must present a claim, in writing, to the Human Resources Department within three (3) working days from the date of notice of such employee'a lay-off, otherwise, It shall be deemed that compensation for time lost arising Out of any wrongful lay-off la waived. The company will promptly determine the merits of written claims and if it 1* found that the lay-off was unjust, the effected employee will receive his straight time lest during euch lay-off.
-11-
10.07
When rehiring takes pile* in any Department, the ravers* Of Section 10.03 will be followed: (l.e, laid off permanent employee* will be recalled in the order of their aeniority within that Department). In the event that additional men tr* required by that Department, then permanent'laid off employee* holding aecurity in another Department will be recalled in the order of their aeniority.
10.QB Notification of recall ahall be mad* by regiatered mail to the laat addreaa which the employe* ahall have recorded with the Company, and the Local 304 Labatt Representative ahall be notified thereof. It shall be the responsibility Of the employee to keep the Company and the Union notified of his mailing address SO that he may be contacted within seventy-two (72) hours an hereinbefore provided.
SICTION 11
TRANSFIRS OF SENIORITY
11.01	An employee who has been on a seniority list in any department and ia promoted to a position not covered by this Agreement and later returned to the bargaining unit shall be given aeniority equivalent to his total service with the Company provided he maintains his Union withdrawal Card, but he shall have no seniority rights for better jobs or vacation entitlement until after he has completed one hundred and thirty-two (132) working days in the Department.
-12-
11.02	An employee transferred to another department for ration* other than to avoid a layoff ahall tranafer hli aeniority to such department after he haa completed one hundred and thirty-two (132) working day* In hit new Department.
•SCTIO* 12
RATS* FOR TMMirtlUtn MLOmt
12>01 Employees who are tranaferred purauant to the lay-off proviaiona ahall immediately take the rate for the job to which they are assigned.
12*02 Employeea who are temporarily tranaferred to a vacant job for the convenience of the Company ahall eontinue to receive their ueual rate.
12*03 If any employee it tranaferred for the efficiency Of the Department, he will be paid at the lower rate ualeae the employee haa had at leaat fifteen (IS) years service with at least two (2) years continuous employment at the higher rate and in such e cate the employee will retain hia rate until such time aa the job rate exceed# the rate being paid. Thereafter,
-13-
the employe* will be paid the contract rate for the job. If an employee ie traneferred for hie Own good or because of undisputed disability, he will be paid at the job rate for the job to which he is transferred.
12.04	employees transferred or assigned temporarily to a job paying a higher rate of pay will be paid at the higher rate for all hours worked In the higher rated job. This section does not include employees while on work stabilisation or a defined training program.
12.05	Clause "A" l The Company shall supply adequate manpower in all operations in all departments at all times so that an employee will not be required to perform more than A fair day's work.
Clause "8" I Clause "A" shall not be construed to mean that the manning of all operations is at present exactly adequate or that all employees are presently assigned exactly s fair day's work and accordingly changes in an employee's work load may be made sc long as the resulting situation is not a violation of Claus* ‘‘A”.
-14
SECTION 13
promotions, mirinM and vacancies roil aahoaxmino unit jobs
13.01	When aaelgnlng men to daytime work, preference ahall be given to the meat aenier employee. A day-time job refera to e job where there ie no ehift Work.
13.02	The Company agree# to poet all permanent job vacanciea paying a rate higher than the baae hourly rate within the bargaining unit for aevan (?) day# when they occur and all application muat be made within thia time.
13.03	On potted job#, promotion# and tranafera ahall be baaed on aeniority provided that the applicante are #ufficiently qualified and conaidering the efficient operation of the company. The Company will arrange appropriate training wherever practicable.
13.04	The Company and the Union agree that city Brewera' Retail rune ahall be declared vacant and poated each December and that the •ucceaeful applicant for the job will not be eligible for another job for one calendar year.
13.03 There ahall be no bidding of highway tripa
-U-
81CTJ0H 14
PROMOTIONS TO SUPERVISORY POSITIONS
14.01	An employe* accepting a prenotion to a supervisory job shall be allowed three (3) months in which to prove himself capable of filling the position concerned. If the employe* does not qualify within such time, he shall revert to his former position without lota of seniority, provided that if before the expiry of three (3) months, it appears that such employee is incapable of qualifying for such position within these (3) months, he may be required to revert to his fornsr position before such time without prejudice and without lose of seniority.
14.02	Employees accepting positions Outside the bargaining unit may apply for Union withdrawal cards within three (3) months or their appointment. Payment of the required Union due* will protect their membership in the Union for one year.
14.03	When an employee is promoted to A supervisory position, he
shall retain all rights and for a period of twelve (12) WAs promoted, provided that in good standing during such
privileges to his former position months from the date in which he he siaintains his Union membership period.
ttCTION 1ft DlftCZPbtKAJtY ACTION
IS.Ol	Whenever a Seniority or Probationary employee It aubjeot to diacipllnary action which will become a pact of hia employment record*, ha ahall ba givan a fair and juat haaring and may hava a Department Steward in attandanea.
lft.02 Records of auch ditciplinary action will ba givan to tha employee concerned, to tha Dapartmant Steward and to tha local union Secretary.
lft.03 Disciplinary action mutt ba taken within two (2) working days of tha offenoa Or the discovery of tha offanea, uniats this time is extended by agreement between tha Company and tha Union.
15.04	Tha appropriate disciplinary action to ba taken will ba determined by tha gravity of tha effanae and tha time elapsed since tha last offanea.
15.05	In tha imposition of discipline prior disciplinary written warnings or reprimands will not ba referred to after twelve
(12) months; prior suspensions will not be referred to after thirty (20) months.
-17-
SBCTIOM If
IICKXXSS AND DISABILITY
16.02	Sickness or disability resulting from an accident- ahall not In itaelf be cause for dismissal. Upon recovery, an employee who has been tick or disabled shall return to his former position provided hs Is capable of performing theae duties. If unable to perform his regular duties, the company will endeavour to assign him to work which he Is able to perform if such work can be provided.
This clause shall also apply In the event of a driver who is required to have a Class A licence and loses his licence on account Of failing to meet Government standards for a Class A licence. This will not apply in the event of the loss of a driver's licence for any other reason.
16.01	If, because of illness, a permanent employee la not able to complete his shift after having worked at least two (2) hours, he shall be Bent home and shall be paid for the balance of his shift. In the case of an accident causing injury to a permanent employee so severely that the employee is unable to continue work, he shall be paid for the balance or the shift. no employee will leave work before first reporting to his Foreman and the Hedical Department whenever an attendant Is On duty. Ths Company may require proof of illness by a doctor's certificate to be obtained at Company's expense, if any. by the employee whenever requested.
-18-
•ICTXO* IT
oxtsvjurcs HociDau
IT.01 The Company acknowladges the right of tho Union to select Shop Stewards to assist Seniority or Probationary employees in presenting oonplainta or grievance* to tht Cotepany. Thor* ahall ba four Stewards in Packaging, throo Stewards in Staging, two Stawarda	in aaeh	of Brewing, Maintenance	and
Transportation, and one Steward in the Oarage plua an Alternate Steward In the Oarage. The Alternate Steward ahall act In the absence of the regular steward with respect to any grievance arising In his/her Department.
17.02	The procedure for handling complaints or grievances shall be as follows I
A Seniority or Probationary employee who has a complaint or question will ordinarily	dlaeuat the matter with	hla
Superviaor, but If this dota not aatiafy him or if for any reason his complaint la of such a nature he prefers to refer to hla Steward firat, he may do so.
STIP i
If a complaint or grievance la referred by an employee to his Steward and the Steward conaidera there may be a reasonable bails far the complaint or grievance, he ahall present the matter to the superviaor of the employee involved within liven (7) working days from the time since the grievance arose or became apparent aid ahall endeavour to arrange a satisfactory settlement.
-19-
A grievance presented after the aforementioned time limit shall not be arbitrable. If such settlement cannot be arranged, the Steward	shall then state	the grievance In writing in
quadruplicate and give the Department head five (5) working dsya to provide a written answer, if thle answer ie not satisfactory, the next step of the procedure may be invoked.
STEP 2
The Plant Manager or his nominee shall confer with the appropriate steward representation and the Plant Chairman or his designate may be present if requested by either the Plant Manager or the Plant Chairman or hie designate. If the matter ie settled, the settlement shall be stated in writing and signed by the Plant Manager and the Plant Chairman or his designate. If it is not settled within two working days, step Mo.3 may be invoked.
STEP 3
The grievance shall be refereed to the General Manager, Ontario Division, or his nominee, who shall confer with the appropriate steward representation, the Besiiess Agent for local 304, the Plant Chairman or his designate and Executive Board member of the Local Uaioa. If the matter Is settled, the settlement shall be stated in writing and signed by the Ontario General Manager and the Plant Chairman or hie designate. If it is not nettled within two (21 working days. Step No.4 may be invoked.
-20-
STIP 4
The grievance miy be referred to arbitration upon the written request of «ith«r tho Company or the Plant Chairsan or hie designate within one hundred and twenty (120) oalendar day* of the date of the Third Step disposition.	The issue to be
arbitrated should be the written statement of the grievance and the answers of the various management effioials who have previously dealt with the matter.
17.03	When a Written request for arbitration has been submitted by one party, the parties shill meat within three (3) working days and they shall make every reasonable effort to select an impartial arbitrator and if they fail to make such selection, the Minister of Labour for Ontario shall be requested to appoint such impartial arbitrator. The decision of the arbitrator shall be final and binding on the parties hereto. The reasonable costs of such arbitrator, including the fees and expenses, stenographic services, etc. of the arbitrator, shall be equally ehared by both parties to this Agreement.
17.04	In grievances involving discharge of a Seniority or Probationary employee, the grievance# shall be put in writing by the Steward and lodged et Step 3 within seven (7) calendar days after the employee ceases to work for the Company.
BZCTIOM IS
NO mini OR LOCKOUTS
10,01	in view of tha orderly procedure arranged for tha a*ttlament of coeg>lainta and grievances, It la agreed that tbara will ba no atrlkaa or lockouts instigated, andoraad or condoned by aither party to thia Agreement. In tha svant of any Stoppage of work, tha Union agraaa that auch Union member* at may ba required to protact and maintain Company proparty in oparating condition, to protaot product* from damage And to maintain, operate and protect aiaantlll aarvicaa much ai water, power, heating, aanitation, fire protection, watchman aarvicaa, ahall ba permitted to perform auch work.
16>02 It ie alao agreed that if any diapute arieaa between the partiea to thia Agreement concerning tha general interpretation or application of thia contract which affect* ita orderly adminiatration, either party may invoke tha grievance procedure and arbitration beginning with a conference at Step 2,
16,03 Should any matter relating to thia Agreamant, but not specifically covered by it, arise during ita life, it shall be subject to negotiations between the partiea hereto.
-22-
IECXXO* If
«**>■ um jura (xaiixhcatzomi
19.01	The following minimum eeale of wages thill be paid to permam employee* effective from the data indieatad:
	1991	1992	1993
Brewing Department	$19.15	$20.70	921.80
Tractor Trailer Operator	20.00	20.95	22.05
Truck Driver (Other)	19.60	20.75	21.65
Staging Machine operator	19.75	20.70	21.80
Maintenance General	19.79	20.74	21.64
Packaging Machine operator	19.75	20.70	21.80
Packaging (Other)	19.70	20.65	21.75
Painter	21.66	22.63	23.73
Bar Tender	19.75	20.70	21.80
•tore Keeper	19.75	20.70	21.80
Plumber	23.12	24.23	25.52
Oiler	20.70	21.65	22.76
Mechanic (Auto)	23.12	24.23	25.52
Maintenance Mechanic	23.12	24.23	25.62
Zlectrician	23.12	24.23	26.52
Maintenance "8“	21.69	22.64	23.94
Malntenanee "C*	20.55	21.50	22.60
Probationary	11.91	12.48	13.14
19.02	The following biaio acale Of wage* will bo paid to temporary employee* effective from the data indicated:
Temporary (General) Temporary (Trade*) Temporary (Drivers)
10.33
18.04 15.j:
10.82
19.64
16.01
11.39 20. 56 16.56
-33-
19.03
Chsrgehande shall receive 30 Cants ($.30) par hour more than thair regular rata. A ehargehand is one who while working with a crew of ona or more non is specifically charged with the reaponeibility for the quantity and quality of work performed by such crew.
19.04	An employee who dots not become a permanent employee under the conditione of Section 7 after completion of one hundred and thirty*two (132) working days shall, nevertheless, then be eligible for statutory holiday pay on the aame basis as provided for permanent employees.
19.0$	A11 employees shall qualify for shift premium at the rate Of
•40 Cents per hour for afternoon shifts and <90 centa per hour for midnight shift. [effective January lf 1991]. Effective January 1, 1992 the midnight shift premium shall be .95 Cents per hour. Effective January 1, 1993 the midnight shift premium shill ba $1.00 per hour. The afternoon shift premium will be paid for all work performed on shifts commencing on Or between the hours of 9i01 a.m. and 4i$9 p.m. end the night shift premium for all work performed on shifts commencing on or between the hours of SiOOp.m. and SiS9 a.m. This shift premium shall not be deemed part of the regular rata of pay in the calculation of overtime, statutory holiday or vacation pay.
-34-
19.06
The itity* of tradesmen *$' *nd *C" will be reviewed by the
Company annually. Tttaaa qualified	*• hiyW**
status will b« promoted. Those not deemed qualified will ba given reaeone for tha daelaion and shall have recourse to tha grievance procedure if not aetLafied.
19.07 Paraona hired to fill positions of Maintenanee Mechanic, Electrician, plumber and Auto Mechanic after the signing or this Agreement will nova to their appropriate Job rates in accordance with Article 19.01 herein at the end of their probationary period. Those not deemed qualified will be given Masons for the decision and shall have recourse to the griavanoe procedure if not satisfied.
CLMBIPICATIOW DURING ©VEAlAUL
19. OS Dwriog overhaul periods certain employees may be assigned to work with Maintenance Mechanics to perform Jobs requiring mechanical skills. These employees will be paid the Maintenance Mechanic "C* rate for such work.
19.09 Other employees may be assigned to work with Maintenance Hechanlce or Painters to do routine general maintenance or painting work. These employee* will be paid the Maintenance general rate.
-25-
19.10 Engiloyeee who Are assigned to other work stabilization jobs outside the Maintenance Department in order to avoid layoff will be paid their regular rates.
MCXXOM 30
■OURS OP WORK ADD OVXRTIKB PAY
A. S1CSPT IIOBWAT DRIVER* VMPLOY19 OM ■XORWAY TRANSPORT WORK
20.01 light hours (seven and one-quarter hours work, plus rest periods or luneh time) shall Constitute a day's work and five (5) eight (8) hour days shall constitute a work week. All work in excess or sight (8) hours in any one day. or in excess of forty (40) hours in any one week shall be paid foe at the rate of time and one-half. Any work in excess of eleven (11) hours shall be paid for at the rate of double time. The normal work week will be reduced by eight (6) hours for any week containing a statutory holiday. In the event that an employee works his statutory holiday, he will receive the premium pay for that day but will work the remaining thirty-two (32) hours at straight time rata.
•26-
20.02	Saturday will b* a premium day with pay at tha rata of tima and one-half for all houri worked. It Is understood that employees
whoaa regular shllte commence on rcleay bafora midnight will
receive time and one-half for all work parformad aftar midnight Friday.
20.OS	Imployaaa required to work On 4 Sunday Of Statutory Holiday ahall ba paid at tha rata of doubla tiaa for all hours worked. Any work parformad on a Sunday or Statutory Holiday aftar an amployea has workad forty (40) houra In that waak will ba paid for at doubla tima and Ona-half. In a waak in which ona or more Statutory Holidays occur* tha work week will ba reduced by eight (B) hours per Statutory Holiday for tha purpose of calculating overtime for Sunday.
20<0* Any work performed aftar eight (6) hours on any ona Sunday will be paid for at tha rate of doubla tima and ona-half and work parformad aftar eight (8) hours on any ona Statutory Holiday will ba paid for at tha rata of trLple tima and ons-half.
CALL BACK
20.05	When in employee 1* called back to work after he h»« Completed hit shift, for • Specific job, and bafora tha on* (1) hour pariod preceding hi» next regular shift, ha will ba paid for the tin* worked at tha appropriate Overtime rate subject to t minimum payment of four (4) hour* at such overtime rate for each call back.
If called in within the On* (1) hour period preceding the starting time of hi* regular *hift, he will be paid for such extra work at the appropriate overtime rate with no minimum payment guaranteed.
Appropriate overtime rtt** mesa time and one-half on Monday to Saturday, Inclusive, double time on Sundays and Statutory Holidays, and triple time for houra worked on a Statutory Holiday in *xc*Sl of eight (B) hour*.
Any premium hours paid for under this clause will not be used for calculating overtime adjustment in relation to dally or weekly hours worked.
-28-
20.06	The IChadul# of the hours to be workod «ach day shall be posted at least one (1) weak in advanee of the first of such scheduled days, end the scheduling shall provide for at least fifteen (IS) hours elapsed time between the close of a*ch man's shift And the start of his next shift, unless Otherwise mutually agreed. When an employee le scheduled to change from one group of conaecutlvS shifts to another, the said elapsed time may be reduced to seven (?) hours.
Without changing posted schedules, an individual employee may take over the work assignment or the day off of earn# other employee upon request, but unless he is given at least four (4) working hours notice in advanee of such changed assignment, he shell be entitled to be paid at the appropriate overtime rate for any work performed by him during what would have been hia ragular time off according to his regular posted work aseignment.
Continuous work beyond twelve (12) houre will be et the discretion of the Department Head.
20.0? If any employee reports for work on Ma scheduled shift without having been informed previously rtdt to report, unless his failure to receive notice not to report la due to absence without Just cause from his last shift, and leas than four (4) hours work is available far him. he shall be given four (4) hours pay notwithstanding.
-jg.
20i09 Smployeei who Work overtime ovor and above thair regular daily or weekly hour* shall not be required to take time off to offset such Overtime. When an employee is called in to work overtime and has not had eight (8) hours unbroken free time since the completion of bis last regular working period, such employee shall not be required to Continue working into the neat regular day exoept in case of extreme emergency, further, when an employee la required to work more than twelve {12) hour# In any one day, he will be excused from work the succeeding day, if he so desires, except in the case of extreme emergency, or where the work is occasioned by such an emergency. An emergency shall be defined ee anything that Interferes with production.
20.09 If overtime is required, notice shall be given two (2) hours before the •Ml of the enployee's shift, except for work required	to Cta9l*t* production	runs and	in the case	of
emergency	repair work required	for the	continuance	of
production. When such notice cannot be given, overtime shall be on a	voluntary basis. As far	as possible, overtime	work
will be	equally distributed on	an annual	baels among	the
permanent employees in the Deparbnent concerned.
-30-
20.10
20.11
20.12
20.13
20.14
20.15
If an employee la scheduled to work at least two (2) hours in addition to hU regular shift he shall be allowed aa addittonal fifteen (IS) alnut* root porlod at the baglnaing of tha overtime period and every two (2) hours of overtime worked thereafter.
Kmployees who are retired to work as much as three (3) hours overtime continuous with their reguler shift shall be granted a meal allowance of at least three dollars ($3.00).
(a) The Company will endeavour to schedule as many employees as practicable on a Monday to rriday work week.
<b) Schedules of work in tha Brewing and Maintenance Department* must naceaaarily fluctuate with production requirements.
overtime hour* will be posted on a departmental basis weekly and will include the employee's name and hours of overtime worked or refused.
In no ease will overtime or premium compensation be duplicated
or pyramided.
Before effecting any ganeral change in departmental shift schedule, the Company will endaavour to advise the Union in advance of such change.
■31-
ft. SUBWAY DRIVIRS DtfLOttD ON IfOBVAY TRANSPORT WORK
20.16	For employs*! being paid as Truck Drivers (Highway) the regular work week will be forty (40) hour* Monday to Friday. Overtime at the rate of time and one-half ahall be paid for hour* worked in excees of ten (10) in a day and forty (40) hour* in a week and for work commencing on Saturday. Tim* to be taken from the time dock (except as (pacified in 20.17 below) with time spent eating meals to be deducted from the time clock hours.
20.17	Double time will be paid for all hours worked on any Sunday or Statutory Holiday.
LAY-OVER TINS
20.18	If a driver is held up outside of Toronto because of mechanical breakdown, road condition*, or weather conditions, and obliged to hold up for Oh* or more than one full day. he will be credited with eight (8) hours Work for each day held over.
20.19	Before calculating any overtime payment for hours in excess of forty (40) in a week, any hours for which premium payment has been payable shall first be deducted from the total hours worked.
20.20	The Company agrees not to uae outside trucks for any dslivery which is normally mada by tha Company’s trucks and while an employee on the seniority list (who is qualified to drive) is on lay-off.
'32'
20.21
If any employes report, for work on hi* scheduled shift Without having been informed previously not to report, unless his failure to rseeLve notiee not to report la due to absence without just cause from hia last shift, and less than four (4) hours work is available for him, he shall ba given four (4) hour* pay notwithstanding.
SECTION 21 mTUTORY HOLIDAYS
21.01	The Company will obaai
New Year's Day Good Friday Easter Monday Victoria Day Canada Day January 2nd
the following plant holidays:
civic Holiday Labour Day Thanksgiving chriatmaa Day Boxing Day
An additional (12th) holiday will be granted if declared by the Provincial Government.
For the duration of this agreement, the above Statutory Holidays will be observed a* follows:
■33-
PUlire HOLIDAY (CHSOULB
		1992	1993
New Year'e Day	Tuee.Jen.1	Wed.Jen.1	Frl.Jen.1 (Frl.Deo.31/93)
Jan.2	Med.Jen.2	Thors.Jar.2	Thure.Dec.31/92 (Hon.Jen.3/94)
Good Friday	Fri.Ner.29	Frl.Apr.17	Frl.Apr.9
faster Monday	Mon.Apr.1	Non.Apr.20	Mon.Apr.12
Victoria Day	Mon.Hay 20	Non.Hey 10	Non.May 24
Dominion Day	Non.July 1	Ned.July 1	Thure.July 1
Civic Holiday	Mon.Aug.S	Non.Aug.3	Mon.Aug.2
Labour Day	Hon.Sept.2	Non.Sept.7	Hon.Sept.6
Thanksgiving Day	Non.Oct.14	Non.Oct.12	Hon.0ct.il
Christmas Day	wed.Dec.25	Frl* Pec,25	Frl.Dec.24
Boxing Day	Thurs.Dec.26	Thure.Dec.24	Hon.Dec.27
21.02	Employees on the seniority llete, other than those laid off or an leave of absence and probationary employees, who have completed thirty (JO) days or work foe tha company fine# thair moat racant data or hire and who are not laid off or on leava of absence will receive eight <B) hour* of straight tiM pay for each of such holidays without being required to work on such daye.
21.02	whan any of those Holidays are observed during an employee's annual vacation, he shall receive one day's regular pay for aacb such Holiday in addition to his vacation payment, Unless, by mutual agreement between the employee and the Company, the employee is given another day off with pay in lieu of such Holiday. Such Ilea day shall be scheduled by mutual agreement between the employee and the Conpany.
-34-
21.04	All truek drivers will be credited with eight (9) hours pay far non-sailing days in thft B.W. COfflpMy by virtue Of L.C.8.0. •die* applicable throughout the entire province. Where such a holiday occurs during an employee's vacation period^ ha will reoeive an additional day's pay.
21.05	In any work week in whieh an L.C.B.O. holiday, which ie not province wide, is declared and in whieh a driver has worked less than forty (40) hours, solely because of the holiday, the Company will credit the driver with sufficient hours, up to a maximum of eight (8) hours, to bring his total hours for that week to forty (40). Drivers required to work on a holiday will do so at straight time,
21.06	Penalty rates for employees working shifes on the eleven (11) holidays listed above shall be deemed applicable to three shifts (i.e. day, afternoon and night) of the day in question, for the purpose of penalty pay on eall-ina occurring on a holiday, the holiday shall be defined ae commencing at 12i01 aja. and ending at HiS9 p.m.
-as-
SECTION 22 VACATION
22,01 0n M*Y 1st In aach year, vacation leave will be established for
all regular employee* according to the following ecalei
(a)	Regular employee* who have achieved seniority an of May 1st -- one week.
(b)	Regular employees who have one year, but lese than three years Of seniority as of May let ■*“ two weeks.
(c|Regular employees who have thfSS years, but lS08 than eight years of seniority aa of Hay 1st -- three week*.
(d)	Regular	employees	who	have	eight	years,	but	less	than
fifteen years of seniority 4f of Hay let four weeks.
(e)	Regular	employees	who	have	fifteen yeara,	but	less	than
twenty years of seniority ae of May lat *- five weeks.
(f)	Regular	employees	who	have	twenty yeara,	but	lees	than
twenty-five years of seniority aa of Hey let -- six weeks.
-36-
(g)	Regular employees who have twenty-five year# or boh of
seniority 4» of nay lit •• seven weeks,
(h)	Bmployeee shell be eligible foe their 4th. 5th. 6th. and 7th week Of Vacation following their 8th. 15th. 20th and 25th Anniversary of employment.
(i)	As Of Kay 1st in aaoh year, employees who have been in the employ Of the Company far a period of twelve (12) months or more, but who have lost mori than fifty (50) working day* during the twelve (12) month period preoeding Hay lat for any reason other than illness verified to the satisfaction of the Company may. at the employee's option, be given two weeks sunrer vacation With payment amounting to 4t of hie earnings during the twelve (12) month period preceding May let or the employes may elact to work for all or part or eueft Summer vacation time, but shall be entitled to receive 4% vacation payment.
22.02	summer vacation shall be limited to two consecutive weeks which will be scheduled in a fourteen (14) week period commencing the second Monday in June.	-
■37-
22.03	vacation* shall bo taken by seniority regardless of shift and work scheduled will be arranged In order that an employee will have sixteen (16) oonsecutive days when he taken his Bummer vacation*
22.04	It is understood that t whenever possible, the employee can take hi* vacation at a time other than specified in this Agreement.
22.05	Additional weeks of vacation for employees with three (3) or more years Of service shall be taken outside the summer Vacation period. Such vacations will be taken by seniority by classifieation. The company reserves the right to determine the number of employees who may be on vacation at any given time.
22.06	For each week of vacation leave an employee will receive forty (40) hours pay at hit Current hourly wage based on straight time.
22.07	a) An enployee continuously absent from work for a period in axes** of 104 weeks shall not be entitled to any vacation entitlement thereafter until further entitlement is earned by resumption of active service.
-38-
b) Nsir the conclusion of the Vacation year, an employee with unused vacation entitlement who]ia then in receipt Of Weekly Indemnity or Long Tern Disability benefit! and who haa not bean continuously absant from work in excess c£ 104 weeka shalli
1.	oeaae to reeeiva such benefits and be placed on
vacation	leave until hia	unused vacation
entitlement ia exhausted? and,
2.	readme receipt of dieabllity benefits. if still qualified, one# hia vacation credits are exhausted?
An employee whose disability	*r* Interrupted ae
described above, shall have its eligible benefit period extended by the number Of weeks f|r which hs has been placed on vacation leave ty the Company pursuant to this clause.
-39-
vacation Bonuei In addltio provided by Section 22.01, employees will be established vacation loaves ere established
Assuming that all service vaoe the basis Of wage rates then i paid at the commencement of The vacation bonus will be cale
Enployee* with three (3) years 1st will be entitled to a vacat vacation pay.
YACATION PAYMENT ON
All terminations shall be hendl
(a)	Employees who had received let prior to termination s Of 41, 6%, 8%, 101, 12%, or from Kay 1st to date of th«
(b)	Employees who had not red
May 1st prior to terminal vacation pay in addition tc 8%,	10%, 12%. or 14%, as a
(c)	Tsaporary and/or saasonal to vacation pay in accc Esployment Standards Act. recalva any vacation bonus
SECTION TOOL ALLOV
All newly hired Mechanics "A" required to provide their jteplaceirent of worn, broken, will be paid for by the compel 1290 per Mechanic. Effect!' increased to $305. Effect!' increased to $320.
to the normal vacation pay vacation bonus for Csrtsin on Bay 1st or each year when
Lon leave will be paid for on effect, vacation bonus will be >e employee's annual vacation. Lated at followsi
»r more of seniority as of May >n bonua of 20% of their normal
mtMXMATlON
1 on the following baslsi
heir vacations earned at of Nay all receive e pro-rata paymant 14%, as applicable, of earnings tarmination.
ved their earned vacation aa oi on shall recslvs their regulat the pro-rata payment of 4%, 6%. pllceble, of earnings from Maj
mployees shall’be entitled only dance with provlalone of the n termination, an employee will o which he is sntitled.
3
NCI
’ "B" end Auto Mechanics will bo own set of required tools.
' lost tools, or for upgrading, subject to an annual maximum of in 1992, this maximim will be in 1993 this maximum will be
SECTION 24
24.01	(ft) Thft Conpany will provide * Ws^fare Plea »nd ft Pension Plan for its «ployees, the partleulfrs of which sre ftftt out In poliolfti ftnd other document* carrying such plane, and the detail* shall be suonarliad in the printed agreement booklet following the signature page.
(b) The eaployee's share of any uneaploymant Insurance Premium Rebate will be retained by the Company to offset a portion of the cost of the benefit Improvements contained in this agreement.
IXCX LEAVE
24.02	On each January lat, sir (€) da^-s (at anpleyea'a base rate) will be credited to a sick lehve bank for each permanent employee. These credits will be used to offset loss of pay for working days not covered by the insured Weekly Indemnity benefit. Any unused portion of the sick bank will be pard to the enployee in cash on the last! payday before Christmas. A completa explanation of the sick leave plan ahall be summarised in the printed agreement booklet following the signature page.
KJU.TI AMI (Arm
elimination of unhealthy practical. All employees working practical.
•■one
B1UAV1
25.01	should a daath occur in Bnployaas will ba granted absence with pay in ordar t< attand tha funaral. Iiwnedleti mother, fathar, sister, father-in-law, son-in-law and Of absence will ba grantad aunt, uncla, brothar-in-law grendchlldren. Leave to atti may alao ba grantad but withoi
and maintain all reaeonable the health and safety of its and tha Onion racogniae thair n tha prevention, correction and uneafa working Conditione and a expected to adhere to safe
IS
ft
la imnediate family, Permanent rse (3) working daya leave Of lake funaral arrangements or to family lncludea husband or wife, rother, child, mother-in-law, lughter-ln-lew. one day's leave 5r attending tha funaral of an sistar-in-law, grandparents or d the funaral of a non-relative pay.
■42
EDUCATION LEAVE OF lAMUTCE
25.03	Upon written application by tha Business Agent of Lecal 304 of tha Unioo, tha Company agrest grant an education leave of absence, without loss of regular pay, not to exceed three (3) normal working days In any die year, to the Union Plant Chairman, elected Department Stewards and Alternate Stewards. Such educational leave will be arranged between the Union and the Company to ae to minimise disruption of the Company's operations.
JUKI DUTY i
29.03	Should an engtloyee be called feriJury Duty or subpoenaed Af a crown witness, the Company will | supplement hie jury pay or witnees pay to ensure that the gmployae will receive totally, non Lea equivalent to eight (8) hour* of straight time pay at hia regular wage rate for those daya ha would actually have been at work during Ms aerviee aa a Juryman or Crown witness.
-43-
UNION LEAVE Of ABSENCE
25.C4 The company agrees to gw written application, lor i month! or for the balance (whichever it longer) to i appointed aa an official Union, if such duties reguJ his Company duties on a ful
Employees on auch leave ol members of the pension and legislation and/or govern/) payment of the total eontj the Union or employee cone Of absence • the employer acoumulate aa if he were company.
>nt unpaid leave of absence, upon eriod of not more than twelve (12) f the duration of thla Agreement employee who haa been elected or the Parent Union or of the Local him to have leave of absence from time basis.
bsence may be oontinued IS active Ifare plane (subject to applicable t regulations or directions) upon utlene to such plana whether from ned. During such period of leave seniority shall continue to ployed at his regular post by the
section at
oouuumto wage pjjuf
36.01	The Guaranteed Wage Plan, which la a supplement to thia Agreement, La Intended te provide aaeletance for thoae eligible employees who have one or more years of seniority who are laid off as a result of application, of the foregoing layoff clauses, and is not to be construed aa authorisation to altar existing practices.
SECTION 27
DUPLICATION OP BENEfITS
27.01	An employee shall not receive wagea( or other allowances such as holiday pay, Vacation pay, Weekly' Indemnity, LTD., Workere' Compensation, or Othar similar benefits from more than one source for the same day or part day.
SECTION 26	1
can or Llvtm uxduure.
29.01	A Cost of Living Allowance in A lump aum payment will be paid to regular employees for all hours worked, including vacation and statutory holidays, In the period from January 1, 1993 to December 31, 1993, the first pay (period following Publication of of the December, 1993 Consumer [Price Index <1971* 10(7), On the basis of (.01 per hour for) eseh full .3 change in the Consumer Price Index (1971 ■ 100). in the period from January 1,	1993 to December 31,	1993 calculated by subtracting the
Consumer Price Index (1971 •	200) for ths month of December,
1992, after adding thereto 71 of the December, 1992 Consumer Price Index (1971 * 100), from the|Coneum«r Price Index (1971 • 100) for the month of December. 1993,
SECTION 29 |
LETTERS OP INTENT
Attached to thia Agreement far reference are letters of Intent which shall not be construed to for* part of the Collective Agreement. These letters, if not tsnewsd by the parties, shall expire on the date of expiry Of thia Agreement.
-15-
VICTK 30
TXCBMOLOOK CBANOS
30.01	In the event that, durli Company plana to introduce I it anticipates will diraotly ton (10) or more rogular emp]
(a)	Tho Company will gj technological change at 1< date an which the technol< After giving notice, the classification the number jobs to be diaplaeed ahall purposes of paragraph (e) hai
(b)	The Company will meet redeployment of the affectec with the proviaiona of t) provision* at aet out in th< in so doing, ahall designate laid off;
(c)	During the first thirty prior to effecting any li collective agreement, the employees for special Si employees shall be approach paragraph (a) in order of eei special early retirement t period and actually retire \ will receive a Technologies] be determined by dividing tl pay entitlement of all e<n| layoff in paragraph (b) abovi eo designated. The number group who may receive the *, jobs in that group which are technological change and, employees in any group l retirement, the TCB will at them.
thle collective agreement, the •jor technological change which •ult in the indefinite layoff of see, the following shall apply;
the Union notice of such t eixty (60) days before the cal change ie to be effected, ompeny shall identify by job f jobs to be displaced. The grouped by the Conpany foe the n.
and discuss with the Union the regular employees in accordance collective agreement and the usssnteed Wage Plan	and,
he eapleyeea to be indefinitely
0) days of the notice period and ffa or separations under the Jompsny shall canvass eligible iy retirement. Such eligible within each group determined in >rity and, If they choose to take ;hln the above thirty (30) day ;hin thirty (30) days thereafter, Ifcange Bonus (TCB). The TC8 will total amount of the separation >yees designated for Indefinite by the total number of employees >f special early retirees in any I will not exceed the number e£ j be permanently displaced by the f a greater number of eligible ' elect to take special early f be paid to the most atnior of
• 46
50
30.02	(a)	If the number of eligible employee* in any group who
eleat te tiki special early retirement is le*a th$n the number of jobs in that group to be permanently displaced by the technological change, or
(b)	If the Company did not anticipate the number of layoffs but the introduction of thf major technological change actually directly reaulta irt the indefinite layoff of ten (10) or more regular employees*
the following provision* will apply*
(1) the employees ultimately designated for indefinite layoff hereunder will be permitted to elect •sparation and to terminate from the Company prior to their echedoled 1 date of layoff. Those employees *0 electlngt and terminating from the Company ehall be entitled te receive the amount 0e separation payment	calculated	in	accordance	with
Section 31 hereof. If; any of those employees were Classified as probationary or regular employees prior to Match 21, 18j88, their separation payment calculation	shall	i|rtelude	an	additional	One
Thousand Dollar* ($1,0001);
fill these employees designated for indefinite layoff hereunder who do not eleet to terminate from the Company	pursuant to the prevision*	of the
preceding	paragraph, and who	are eligible for
participation in the Guaranteed Nag* Plan, shall receive the benefits provided for under that plan. In addition	such	employees	shall receive	an
additional eight (8) weeks of benefit under that Plan, subject to the following conditions:
A. an employee may us* the additional eight (8) weeks of entitlement only	ones	during his	employment,	and
notwithstanding Section 6 of the Plan, the eight (8) weeks can never be restored;
B the additional eight (8) desks of entitlement shall be the first weeks used.
-47-
•ECTIjOK 31 IS?AMI? ON PAY
31.01 A Regular employee shall be out in subsection .03 prc subsection .03 and provic provisional
(a)	if ha is terminated •ubaaction .02;
(b)	if ha it laid off ane hour* scheduled for hi consecutive month* wei normal full time houra company or government Company's Insured Mask] Plana;
(c)	in apacial casaa whs hava littla prospect < period of ala months t and separation pay. Company and the Union the eligibility clause
(d)	if ha is ultimately del result of a major ti Section 30.02;
An employee eligible J must apply for it not 1 becomes eligible thera payment ahall be cancel
NothwlthetandLng the diecontinuee an opera reault muat apply foi pay to which he ia month's period.
intitled to separation pay as eet Lded he h*s not been excluded by ! he swats any of tha following
>t a reason other than eet out in
>n any date during hie layoff the during the previous twelve (12) lees then fifty percent (SOI) of revided he ie not eligible for any melon or for benefits under the Indemnity or Long Tern Disability
i a laid off employee appeare to recall to regular work within a may request Immediate termination id with the concurrence of the lie My be granted notwithstanding \ (b) above;
;nated for indefinite lay off ai a mological change ae provided in
: a aeparation payment hereunder ;er than alx months after he first ir, otherwise hie right to such >d.
?ove if the Company permanently Lon, an employee laid off ae a and shall receive any separation mtitled without waiting the el*
31.02	Notwithstanding subsection >01# 1ft employee ehall be excluded
from separation pay eligibility if:
(a)	he quits;
(b)	he la terminated foe }u*t cause;
<c) Ac la terminated under Section 9.01 of thia collective agreement;
(d)	he hie been terminated ^ecauee of apeoifie direction or deoree from any Covernateit authority which haa the effect of curtailing any of the ^ompany'e operational unleaa
(i) the direction or decree ia the reault of an illegal act committed by the company or one of it* representatives, or
(ll) the direction or decree purporta to change the method of beer retailing within the Province;
(e)	he haa been laid off befauee of any act of war or the hoatlle act of any foreign power or by any act of aabotage or inaurraction or by any act of God;
(<] he ia laid off and hat arranged with the Company to taka leave of absence without fay for a apeclflo period in lieu of his layoff;
{g) he it in receipt of income replacement benefits under the Weekly Indemnity or LoAg Term Disability Plana or the Worker’s Compensation Act|
{h> he la entitled to receive any pension under the Company or Government Ptntion Plan.
-49“
eligible employ**
31.03	The amount of th* separation p went of an shall b* equal to:
(a) on# week's baa* earning*
hourly rat* in effect *• c the number of hie complete for vacation entitlement) worked in the Bargaining Ur
romputed on the bade of hie time of layoff) multiplied by yeare of eeniority (ae ueed i of the laet day he actively plus
(b) for employees classified employees prior to Kerch Hundred and Seventy-fir* by his completed year* of to e maximum of IS y« employe# who applies for first becomes eligible eeperetlon pay under this Hundred and Fifty Dollar completed years of eemc maximum of IS yeari. If of e brewery the IS year mi 22 year maximum.
■■ probationary or regular !l, 1968, an additional Three teller* (6375.00) multiplied seniority used in (a) above However, eueh eligible leparation pay at th* time he therefor shall have hi* part (b) calculated as Seven ($750.00) multiplied by hiB Ity used in (a) above to a ;h*r* is a permanent closure i.mum in replaced with a
31.04	Th* company shall be authorised to deduct from any separation pay payable to an employe* sreurtder the amount of any Guaranteed Hag* Flan payment ma • to such employe* which the employe* was not entitled to r*C ive.
31.05	If an employe* applies for and accept* a separation payment hereunder, his employment is te sinated and hi* eeniority and other rights under the Collec Lve Bargaining Agreement are cancelled.
SICTION ifc
DURATION Am REVISION’OF AORtSKINT
32.01 This Agreement shall remain in ull force and effect from th* date of signing to Oecembet 1 mi* and shall remain in efTTT? from year-to-year thereafter, unlesa notice Of not las* than thirty (30) and not more thin sixty (60) days prior to th* expiration of this Agreeing l|j given by either party to th* other party of their intention to revise or amend this Agreement.
-SO-
IN WITNESS whereof the parties hereto have caused their names to be subscribed by their duly authorized Officers and representatives on this, the “6th day of March, 1992.
-51-
SICK LMvfe
2. You will only receive tick pay for are lost through illness. Por exi Thursday and Friday but return to paid at your basic wage rate thei Friday. You would not receive si< unless they were regular working d<
>rmal working days which jle, if you are absent on a >rk on Konday, you will be In effect for Thursday and pay for Saturday or Sunday
3
Coincident with the installation < the deletion of the eight day re former weekly indemnity plan. Sid days not affected by weekly it considered to be the waiting per Lex
the sick pay plan will be activity proviaiona of the taye would apply to working mnity which were formerly
2
If you become a permanent empl< >• after January let, the number of sick leave days to yom credit will be pro-rated. For example, if you become permem : on July let, your eredit will be 6/12 x 6 days ■ 3 daye.
4
If you terminate employment be paid the unused portion basis. For example, if you receive 6/12 x 6 days x your
or retire during the year you will of youi sick leave on a pro-rated leave on September 1st, you will basic wage rate than in effect.
-52-
LABATT MT1R1H1MT_PIAH
FOB_BR£fflR<_WOIUtgM IW TORONTO
Thii ssetlon of the booklet la a summary of the main features of the John Labatt Limited Retirement Plan for Wfep Employees as amended January 1/ 1991 With respect to Brewery Workers employed by Labltt Brewing Company Limited in Toronto, Ontario A complete description of the Plan which Is (he governing document is available for reference at your IIisrun Resources Office If you have any questions dq not hesitate to seek the answers from your Supervisor or Human Resources staff.
1. ELIGIBILITY FOR HtHBCPSHIP
A new employee becOmea a member 6t the Plan on the first day Of the month coincident with or immediately following completion of 90 days of work in ^ 12 month period and hie seniority date will then be established as his date of employment for purposes of this Plan.
you will be advised when you srs eligible and are enrolled ae a member and you will be asked to submit proof of your age.
respect of your service oft*: required contribution* which yen service b*for* January 1, 1974 th« Plan and will b* appliei r**p*ct of your **rvic* b«for* J<
January If 1974* Any i*va mad* in respect Of u&ain to your credit in ;o provide benefits in i*ry 1. 1974.
The Company contribute* what*' along with the required contribui r*epect of aervice before Januai benefit* called for under th* pli th* full coat of administering i matches your contributions to th<
r amount le necessary, >ne made by employees in 1, 1974* to provide th* . The Company also pays i Plan and, in addition, ranada Pension Plan.
All contributions to the Plan ai Trust Company to be invested ai purposes of paying benefits aa pi
paid over to th* Royal held in trust for the rided in the Plan.
Normal retirement ii at age 69. lour pension commences as of the first day of the month coincident with or io&ediately following your 65th birthday.
Your service to qualify for certain of the benefits under the Plan is the total somber oflyears from your date of employment ae established under the Flan to the date on which you retire, die or terminate service.
-54-
The number of years of your "credited^ eervloe datarminaa tha amount of pension you <rd entitled to reoeiva. Credited aervj.ce la calculated aa explained below:
(a)	From January 1,	1974 you receive a credit of ona year
while a member of tha Flan or a prorated partial year of credit for laea than 1800 hours. For example, if while a member of the Plan you work only 900 houra in a year, your credit for that year will ba one-half year (900 divided by 1600) . If you are accent due to disability, you will receive aervLce creditaj foe any periods during which you are totally disabled and receive weekly indemnity or long term disability insurance benefits or Workers' Compensation payments, put in no event will you reeeive more than one year of credited service for any one oalendar year.
(b)	Your oredited service for the period from January 1* 1958 to December 31, 1973 is the number Of years for which You have made the required contributions to the Plan.
(e) If you were a member of ■ prsvlpua company pension plan before January 1, 19S8 when the| Labatt Retirement Plan became effective, your credited Service to December 31, 19S7 iS the period from your date of employment to December 31, 1957 but excluding apy periods when you wars eligible to but did not contribute to the previous plan.
S. CALCULATION OF BASIC PENSION CRBDI
You receive credit far a monthly your normal, retirement date (ago 6	basic pension psysble fi ) calculated ee follows)
a) for terviee after January 1« monthly per.iion equal to $32 by the numbar of years of ex or a prorated amount for leg	1993 - e 30 multiplied dited service than one year;
b) for service attar January 1, monthly pension equal to $31 by the number of years of Ex or a prorated amount for lea	1992 - a 30 multiplied dited service then one year;
c) for service after January 1, monthly pension equal to $3C by the number of years of ei or e prorated amount for lei	1991 - a 00 multiplied dited service then one year;
d) for service after January 1> $28.00 multiplied by the mm your credited aervLoe after or a prorated amount for lei	1990 - sr of years of anuary 1, 1990 Chan one year;
e) for service in 1989 - $27.0C credited service In 1989 or for last than one year;	for one year of prorated amount
f) for service in 1988 - $26.0C crediled service in 1966 or for lass than one year;	for one year of prorated amount
g) for service In 1987 • $20.0C credited service in 1987 or for laat than one year;	for one year of prorated amount
h) for aerviea in 1986 - $19.SC credited asrvice in 1986 or for leas than one year;	for one year of prorated amount
-66-	
3) for aerviee in 1965	- $19.00 for one year of credited
aarvica In 1905 or prorated amount for lea* than on* yaar;
k)	for aarvica In 1904 - $17.39 for one year of Credited eerviee in 1984 or a prorated amount for loaa than on* yoar/
l)	for service in 1963 — $14,50 Ifor ona year of credited aarvica In 1963 or a prorated amount for loaa than ona year;
m> for aarvleo in 1982 - $15.00 for ona year of credited aervice in 1962 or a prorated amount for lean than ona year,
n)	for service in 1961 ~ $14.00 for ona year of credited service tn 1961 or a prorated amount for laea than ona year;
o)	for service in 1960 - $13.00 for ona year of credited service in 1960 or a prorated amount for laaa than ona year;
p)	for service to December 31, 19^9 ■ the amount
of monthly baaie pension to ypur eradit for aarvica to December 31, 1979 determined in accerdanca with the term! of the Plan m effect	to Dacambar 31,	1979.
6. HOVHT OP NORMAL RETIREMENT PENSION
When you retire at your normal date (age 65) you will receive a monthly baaic pone ion from the Labttt Retirement Plan in aa amount equal to the Bum of your basic panaion credits determined aa explained in Section 9. In addition you will receive any pension which la payable to you under a previous plan (aaa Section 16) and any statutory pension (such aa C.P.P. and O.A.8.) which la payable to you undar government plans. You may also qualify for a implement from the Labatt Retirement Plan under the minimum pension provision explained in Saetion 7.
-57-
If you retire at age 65 with i •ervice, you are entitled to a company Plana and tha Canada Pam
a)	$1,686,	if	you	retire	on	or	<
b)	$1,740,	If	you	ratlra	on	or	<
e)	$1,90$,	if	you	ratlra	on	or	i
Thaaa aaounta represent tha mil from Company Plana and tha Canada allowing for tha provielon of a : Company Pension will ba adjusted unlaaa tha apouaa who will bana waivna hia/har right to receive
You will receive a minimum lif tha labatt Retirement Plan a raguirad to ba added to your a Company Plana and tha full Ratlramant banaflta datarmlnad to provida tha abova minimum mon
. laaat 30 years of eraditad dnimum monthly panaton fror .on Plan combined ofi
'tar January 1, 1991}
Iter January l, 1992}
'tar January 1, 1993}
.mum monthly panaion payabla Pension Plan combined before >ouaal aurvivor panaion. Tha ;o provide a aurvivor panaion it from that aurvivor panaion ■. in writing.
;lme panaion aupplament froa lal to tha amount, if any, :rued baaic panaion from all ireduced Canada Panaion Plan : tha data of your ratlramant tly panaion.
If you retire at age is with lest thin 30 years of credited eervUa, the lifttlrtt iupplirert ifitU be the Amount by Which
the alnlnUB pension at (tonal ratlrment aaaaaea ths full unreduced Canada Peneion Plan Retirement benefits, prorated by the ratio of the number of years of credited service to 30 years and reduced by your accrued pension.
To determine what, if any. amount oT supplement is needed, your basic pension from Company Plane la the basic amount payable before the amount of the survivorship pension le calculated, and your C>P>P« pension la the amount you are entitled to receive when you first become eligible at Normal Retirement age, whether or not you actually make application for any auch benefits, but dleregardiag any increase in your C.P.P. pension after its date of oommenceavent.
BPEeiai. EARLT RETIREMENT
If you are age €0 or over and you have 30 or more years of credited service you may elect Spbelal. Early Retirement, in which case you will be entitled to an Immediate accrued basic peneion equal to the amount of baale pension to yeur credit for service to your date of parly retirement, without reduction for yeur earlier age of retirement.
This pensLon will be suppleraet provide the minimum monthly until you first become ellglt Pension Plan Retirement benefit
*)	if you retire o"
	January 1, 1991 •
b)	if you retire on
	January 1, 1992 •
ej	if you retire on
	January 1, 1993 «
Once you become eligible to ri Plan Retirement benefits (on t will be recalculated ai the f your accrued beslo pension Pension Plan Retirement benefj date of your retirement, to pensions;
a)	if you retire on January 1, 1991 *
b)	if you retire on January 1, 1992 *
e) if you retire on January 1, 1993 •
(Once again, both set take account of the X a survivor option for
This recalculated eu[ lifetime supplement.
d by an amount necessary to ns Ion amounts sat out below, to receive unreduced Canada
after
1,537
after
1,562
after
1,695
Lva unreduced Canada Pension alning age 65) the supplement unt required to be added to d the full unreduced Canada , determined as at the actual roduce the fallowing monthly
after
1,685
after
1,740
after
1,90$
□( figures above do not notion required to produce he surviving spouse.)
ament shall became your
In addition to this recalculated lifetime supplement, you nay be entitled to receive a further supplement if you retire before December 31, 1993. Thia further aupplement will repreaent the aount, If any. necessary to produce a total penalon froa Company Plans equal to the pen*Ion that would be payable if you wars then retiring at lioraal retirement minimum pension and full unreduced Canada Pension Flan retirement benefit both determined aa of that date, your aecrued pension including any escalation thareof and your ralated Credited service et the date of your retirement. This further supplement shall than be added to and form part of your llfatime supplement.
9. B5 POINT RETIREMENT
if you retire on or after January 1, 1991, after having reached age SS and your combined age and years of credited aerviee total 6$ or more (butprlorfto having qualified for Speeial Early Retirement), you are Entitled to an ismediate aecrued pension equal to the amount of your vested accrued basic pension foe service to the date of early retirement.
If Addition, you shall be entitled to a lifetime eupplement calculated at if you had rear ad age 65 on your date of retirement, but using your cutJ nt unreduced vetted accrued batic pension and your ralatai credited aervice, the full unreduced Canada Pension Plan Retirement benefit and the normal retirement minimum penr2< , all determined at of your actual date of retirement.
10, OTWEIR FART.Y RPTTRPMFNT
AT eny time after you are ag« 55, you may request early retirement and elect to draw \ >ur pantlon. If you retire after having reached age 55 but Tior to having qualified for SpeoiaL Early Retirement or I ■ Point Retirement, you are entitled to an immediate accrue* pencion equal to the amount of vetted accrued baeic pension o your credit for service to the date of your retirement, ei luced by one-third of J% for eaoh month (l.e> 4\ per year) y< i are under age 55 when your pension comnencea.
-62
In addition, you will be entitled to receive a lifetime supplement calculated at if you had reached age 65 on the data of your retirement, but ualng youlr currant unreduced vaatad accrued baaie panaion and your related credited service, the full unreduced Canada Pension Plan Retirement benefit and the normal retirement minimum panaion,'all determined ae at your aotual date of retirement.
This lifetime aupplement eo calculated will alec be reduced by one-third Of 1% for each month (l.e. 4t per year) you are under age 6$ when your penaion eemtiencee>
11. DISABILITY MTIMKgWt (before age 65)
Aa long aa your are eligible to receive dieability benefita under the Group Insurance Plan yop will receive aervice and baaie peaslon eredita under the Lab^te Retirement Plan and you will not be retired. However, if you become partially disabled and you do not qualify for insurance benefita you may qualify for Disability Retirement:	Retirement under thia
provision requires that:
a)	you are at least age 50 and have completed 10 years of service, end
b)	you are certified to be partially diaablad and thereby prevented from performing any work available with the Company, and
e) it is mutually agreed by you and by the Company
that you be retired under the Dieability Retirement provinon
-63
On retirement under the dleabl to an iimediate pension equal to your credit for eervioe retirement without reductior retirement. In addition, untiJ receipt of C.P.P. disability b< 65, you will receive a monthly 9X4.00 multiplied by the numlx up to 30 years.
AI age 65, you will then calculated an if you had react retirement, but ualng your Cl basic pension and your relal unreduced Canada Penaion Pli Normal Retirement minimum pane; actual date of retirenmnt.
,ty provision you are entitled > the amount of basic pension ;o your data of disability for your earlier age of fou qualify for the earlier of tfita or the attainment Of age Usability supplement equal to of years of credited service
rceive a lifetime supplement ] age 69 on the date of your rant unreduced vested accrued 1 credited service, the full retirement benefit and the n determined as at your actual
A Plan member with An eligible spout* who takot Normal, special early, 09 Point. Disability or Other early retirement on or after January 1, 1091, shall rocoiva a joint and survivor pension, unless the macaber delivers to the Plan Administrator (through your Human ptaoureos office) S written waiver or such entitlement in the prescribed form within the IP month period immediately preceding the eoomtencmnent of the payment of the pension benefit. .
Unless wsivtd, your aceruod basic pension snd lifetime supplement, if any, shell ba reduced by 10% during your lifetime. Upon your death, your eligible surviving spouse shell receive a panslon of 00% of your reduced Accrued basic pension and lifetima oupplement, i^ any (subjaet to a further actuarial reduction If your spouse is more than 10 ^eara younger than yourself).
13. DEATH BEVQRE RET!RtMEHt
If you should dis en Or sftsr January 1, 1991, while in the service of the Company and after yo|) htve reached age sS and have 10 years of ssrvlcs, youf allgUil* surviving spouss will reeslve s pension for her remaining lifetime. Bar pension will ba equal to tha amount of pension she would have received from tha flan had you retired as ^if your date Of death end elected a reduesd joint survivorship pension based on your reduced accrued bsaio pension and lifetime supplement (without the actuarial reduction, if any), but her pension will be subject to a reduction if she is more than 10 years younger tbsn you. Pension payments to your eligible surviving spouse are guaranteed to return any required contributions you hero made to the Flan tilth interest to you? date of death.
If your service Is terminati on or sfter January 3(	1991,
(othor than by retirement ot seth) and if you have consisted at least 2 years of creditec service with tho Conpany, you will bo ontitlod to a deferred monthly pension at ago 65 equal to the accrued basic pension nd lifetime supplement to your credit.
Instead of this deferred pern on entitlement you may elect to
If you were a member of the Plan before January 1, 1974, whan your service it terminated you may eltlhert
a)	leave all of Your contribution! ii\ tha Plan and receive at age 93 a monthly pension equal to the baale pension to your credit to Paoember 31, 1973, which La included in tha pension rafarrad to above, or
b)	withdraw your contributions plus interest to your date of termination Of aervtce in which caaa you forfait your credited eervice to December 31, 1^73, end any pension In respect of such service which ia included in the pension referred to above.
•97-
IS. hcmatiok or mat urn. MTnb<E»r
If you retired prior to January l, 1991, Croat tha service of the company pursuant to any oC ' it typaa of retirement Hated above, your panalon will bo rev iwed from January lat of each yoar which followa your rati.raw it data. Your acoruad baalo panalon ahall ba Ineroaaed on m sb January lat following your retirement by tha laaaar of tl • percentage ineraaaa in tha Conauoar Price Index for tha pr#1 adlng yaar and 2%.
If you ratira on or aftar Janua: / 1, 1991 Croat tha aervloa of tha Company purauant to any of It# typat of retirement liotad abova, your panalon and lifetii supplement will ba raviawod from January lat of aach yaar hieh followa your retirement data. four accrued baalc pana n and Ufatime aupplanant, if any, shall ba incraaaed on a h January lat following your retirement by tha loaaer of a percentage ineraaaa in tha Consumer Price Index for tha pr eding yoar and 2%.
hny apouaal panalon will «l«o aacalatad applying tha earn# formula, with tha first ineraaaa occurring an tha January lat following your daath.
16. PRIVIOI'3 FLAWS (bafora January 1, 1«8)
If you ware a mambar of * pravioua Company panaion plan (Cevarnment Annuity Plan) ifl effect bafora January 1, 19S6, your banaflta from that Plan ara payable In accordant! with tha provialone of that pravlous pljan and art in addition to tha banafit you raeaiva from tha tab^tt Ratitaiant Plan.
Since your pariod of marrbarshlp in tha previous plan la Included in determining your total cradttad eervlea, any baaic panaioD to your eradit undar tha prfvioua plan ia takan Into account In datarmining tha amount of any minimum panaion aupplamant you aca antltlad to raeaiva. finea your panaion from tha tha pravioua plan will ba actuarialiy raduead if you ratira bafera aga <5, your banlc LJl.P, pension will lncluda an amount egual to tba diffaranea 'between your aetuarially raduead pravioua panaion plan and tha amount of baaio pravioua plan panaion at aga £9 raduead by tha lama factor* aa are applicable to your L.R.P. panaion aa explained in Section! S, 9, Id os 11, aa the cate may be.
age 65 and guaranteed for • **• lYilltbli in accordance with th effect at Oece<nber Jl, 195 purchased by Voluntary contribu plan. Any inoresse in the <uno which has resulted from an iner is not considered ae a par pension and would be payable above your basic pension.
After retirement your total ba escalation ae explained in see basic previous plan pension det
17. OTHER IKrORMATIO*
(a) Annual Statement • you wll each calender year end she , your credit under the Plan.
aia of S years which would be berate or the previous plan is but excluding any pension one you may have made to that t of your Government Annuity se in interest rate from t5 of your basic previous plan • an extra benefit over and
e pension which is subject to on IS includes the amount of mined as explained above.
receive a statement following fig the amount of fcensflta to
(e) Rllgible surviving Spouts - Vot^r spouse Is eligible for the surviving spouse's pension,under seetion 1J or 13 pcevLdad you heve been Mrrledj ter «t lint one year before your retirement or death, whichever is earlier. Under certain circumstances a common-law spouse may qualify and the Hunan Raeeurcaa Department will answer your queationa in this respect.
(d) income Tax • All pension payment* received from Company pension plane are considered an income for tax purposes in the year in which received. Tour C.P.P. and O.A.S. pensions must also be reported at taxable income when you file your annual tax return. Similarly, all monies received in lunp Bum withdrawals r death benefit* must be declared a* income for tax purpc ** In the year in which received	and aoe	taxable	UT IM such	manias	ire
transferred to a registered retil MOt savings plan.
IS. GOVERNMENT PENSION SLAWS
Statutory benefits from government plans such as the Canada Pension Plan	(C.P.P.)	and the	pension under	the Old	Age
Security Act (O.A.S.) are in addition to the benefits payable under the Labatt Retirement Plan.
Under current legislation your you roach ago 65, or •« airly Tha amount of your C.P.F, pen«l< of your earninga on which you and tha period during which yot an eitployee who ratiraa at ago to meximim benefits undar tha < pension or (604 par month wM pension oomaancaa it in nubjac* January lot dapanding upon U
Indax.
Tour o.A.8. panilon In alao p< taka up raaidanca outaida Cant4 ha diacontinuad unlaaa you here praacribad number of year*. If you should Check into there o.k.s. peniloa in subject to tha Consumer Price Indax inc O.X.8. peneioa was $344.92 par 1
:.P.P. pension la payable whan in Age 60 on A reduced hasla • t ia dependant upon the amount lava made C.P.P. contributions contributed. To illustrate. IS in 1991 and who la antitlad inade Pension Plan racaivaa a l ha ratiraa. After C.P.P.. to adjustment each following Ireasas in tha Conaumar Price
fable from age 6$ but M You I and your O.A.6. pension may Man a Canadian resident for a fou plan to move out of Canada requirements. The amount or uarterly adjustment upward if ■atea. In January, 1991 tha onth.
-72-
Your spouse will also receive O.A.S. pbneion benefit# payable from age 65 subject to the earn# residency requlcemente specified above.
Application oust be made to receive benefit# from the Canada Pension Plan end Old Age security and the applications should be filed 4 months an advance of your date of eligibility for •ueh pensions to ensure pronpt commandment of your benefits. As well as retlremsnt pensions, thf Csnada Pension Plsn provides certain disability, doath and aurvivor benefit! and further information can be obtained from your local Canada Pension plan office
19. PKMSTftM eya^PLBS
The following examples have been calculated baaod on the Labett Retirement Plan provisions as Mended January 1, 1991 and assuming the engiloyee ie credited with at least 1800 hours in each year until retirement. Minimum pension aupplesients are determined by taking into account the actual amount of your C.P.P. pension when you become eligible to receive it
-73-
r«T»PH »MTfcC8
The following examples have been c Lcuiated based on the Lebett Retirement Plan provisions as sown ad January 1, 1991 and attuning th# onployoo it credited with at 2 lit 1900 hour# in each yaar until retirastant. Minimum panslon supplements ara determined by taking Into account the maximum ao unt of CPP panalon payable at 65 at tha employee's retirement da a.
KZMIPUI hi ■ami Retirement Penal n In 1991 wlth_30 t»ts of Credited ferries
Thia example ia baaed on a number, hoi
-	retires as of July lf 1991 at a^a 65
-	hae credited aervlce of 19 yean to December 31, 2979
with baaio penaion credited to t >at data of $250 per months (250.00
-	has credited Service or 11 yeer^ from January 1, i960 to December 21, 1990 with basic pe^Jion credited as followei
Tor service in I960 “ $13.00
1991	-	14.00
1992	-	15.00
1993	- 16.60
1994	-	17.2$
199$ -	19.00
1986 -	19.59
1997 - 20.00 1999 - 26.00 1999 -	27.00
1990 -	28.00
Total-S21$.2S per eonth	21$.2$
-	works 40 hours in each of 26 we*ke in 1991 for a total of (40k 26) • 1040 hours whichl gives the employe* credited eervlce in 1991 of (10*0 / 1900) “ 0.58 yesre
and a basic peasioa credit of $90.00 k 0.59) ■ $17.40 per month 17.40
TOTM, fcASlC PfcHSIOH	S 482.65
-	the enployee ie entitled to a minimum monthly total of $lf68$ from Company plana and CPP pension since this
employee hae total credited service of (19 + 11 + 0.58) ■ 30.58 year#
-74-
From age 65 the aaployee's monthly retirement incoma iai
fltlic Company panaion credited:
- to Dae. 51, 1974	$ 250.00
-	Jan. 1, 1980 to Dae. 81, 1990 -	Jan. 1, 1991 to June 80, 1991	215.25 11.40
Total Basic Pension	462.65
Add CPP Pension {as in 1991) Add LAP lifetime supplement	604.86
Total from Company plans and CPP	1,665.00
Add 0A6 pansLon (at in Jan. 1991)	854.92
Total monthly income at age 6S	
EXAMPLE Bi Soousa’e PVOfiVB	
Thia example ia baaad on a mambar who retiree a* in Example "A", but who is married and whoa* daath oeeura ahortly aftar ratiramant.	1
Tha basic panaion and tha Lifetime supplefnent In Exampla "A" are reduced by 10% aa a result of tha amber having tha survivor banafit.
Tha member's monthly inooma at retirement ia:
Basic pension (4B2.65 X .90)	$ 484.39
CPP in 1991	604.86
-75*	
LAP lifatima aupplamnt (597.49 * .90)
a 537.74
Total from Company plant and CPP	1,576.99
Add OAS In Jan. 1991 '	354.91
Total Monthly Incoma Poliowing tha mambar'• daath, th urvlving apotita would recaive a Monthly 1 n of 60% of tha abova total from Company pla and CPP. Tha Monthly Incoma iai	41-931.41
Baalc panaion <434.39 x .60)	260.63
CPP la 1991 (604.86 ft .60)*	362.92
tRP lifatima aupplamant (537.14 k .60)	379 ft4
Total from Company Plana and CPP In addition. If tha aurvlvlng ape a ia aga 65 or ovar aha will qualify for 1 OAS monthly banafit of $354.93. ! * Spouaa tn ago 63. Amount of CPP apouaal panaion dapanda on aga at tlma|o< amployaa'a daath.	1 M6.lt
-76-	
BXAMPLS Cl Maftl MtlfMWt Motion la 1»1 With 2i mn of Credited Berries
This example is baaed on s member whoi “ retires «s of January 1, 1991 st sgs 65
-	his credited ssrvico of 14 ysara Co December 31, 1979
with basic pension Credited to that data or (160.00	j 160.00
per swath
-	has credited service of 11 ysars from January 1, i9$o to Oscsmbar 31/ 1990 with basio oension eroditsd as followsi
For aarvlca in I960 - (13.00
1961	-	14.00
1962	-	15.00
1963	- 16.50
1964	•< 17.25
1965	-	19.00
1966-	19.50
196? -	20.00
1986 -	26.00
1989	- 27.00
1990	-	26.00
Total-4215.25 psr month	215.25
-	tha employee is sntitlsd to a basic monthly pension st
age 65 of $395.25	5 395.25
At aga 65 tha asployee is antitlad to 4 supplamant to provide a pro-rata minimum pension ealeulatsd as follows:
Minimum peaiioa for 30 or more years of credited service (1,665.00
Subtract 1991 CPP
404.6&
Mininun from Company pension pis: ' based on 30 ysera service
Kinisiun iron Company pension pis based on 25 years of •srvice (25/30 x 1,080. 4)
Subtract basio pension (as above Monthly supplement needed
Prom age 65 the aoployee1s month y inooma 1st
Sasic ZAP pension LRP supplmnent
Total CPP pension
Total from Company and CPP
Add OAS pension (as in Jan. 199
Total otonthly Income at age 85
8XAMPLK !» Special BarlT Mtlr ent ia 1>91
This example is based on a meab who retires as c January 2, 1991 at age 63 with total of 30 years of credited service.
Sasic pension is accrued an fol wsi
- 19 years to Oscember 31» 1979
51,080.16
900.12
$	504.67
$	395.25
504.87
404.84
1,504.98
___3i1,?Z
luma
5 250.00
-78-
" 11 years from January 1. 1960 to Dee. 31, 1990
1960	- $13.00
1961	-	14.00
1962	-	16.00
1963	-	16.50
1964	-	17.25
1965	•	19.00
1966	-	19.50
1967	-	20.00
1986 -	26.00
1969 -	27.00
1990 -	26.00
Tctal-$21S.2S per month	giS.26
Total Monthly Basle Pension
-79-
Km per the Special Early Retire* nt provialone of thie plan, this member qualifier for Special Zai y Retirement and will racaiva hla baalc panalon without raductlon, a lifetime aupplamant, and a tanporar aupplamant, to raach tha Spacla! Early Retirement minimum of $1,537 pa month in 1991.
At age 6$, which in thia exempli ia 2 yaara later, tha temporary aupplamant will caaaa and tha 1: atima aupplamant will ba racalculatad auch that tha aiambar in 1993 at 9a 65 would than raealve hia baalc panalon without raductlon, tha 1 calculated lifetime aupplamant, and full unreduced CPP benefite to 1 ach tha normal retirement minimum In 1993 of $1,905.00 pea month.
•80-
The employee’s monthly income will be»
ft age 6) in 1991:
Basic Company Plan pension	$ 465.25
Lifetime supplement (HAD min. at 1991 “ CPP- Salic Pension) ( fl.6S5.00 - $604.66 - $445.25 )	614.69
Temporary supplement (SIM min. at 1991-Sasie Pens.-Lifetime Supp.) ( fl,537.00 - $465.25 - $614.69 )	456.66
Total (SCR minimum 1991) A ( age 65 in 1993/	IlsllTaM
Basic Company Plan pension (5465.25 indexed at 2% each of 2 years)	$ 484.05
Recalculated lifetime supplement (MAD min. at 1993 • Basic Pens. « CAP) 1 $1,905.00 - $464.05 - $654.00)	766.9$
CPP Benefits (projected to 1993)	■ 654.00
Total from company plane and CPP	1,905.00
Add OAS (projected to 1993)	—3AO.QO
Total Income at Age 65 The n Tiber in thie example elected to receive full CPp benefits at age 65. Had the member elected to recoive reduced CPP benefits at retirement (in this example age 63) tha calculation of hie LAP pension would not bs affected.	62.265.00
-61*	
BXAKPLB Bl ea Point Retirement
o is SB years of ago aa of January 30 years. *■ this member'* age and tha member qualifies for 65 point
This example la baaed on a member 1 X« 1991 and haa credited aervloe o yaarr of credited service equal 65 retirement.
The member's basic pension i* accr d an fcllowsi
-	J9 years to Decentoer 51, 1979
-	11 years from Jen.l, 1960 to Deo 91, 1990i
1990 - $13.00
1961	- 14.00
1962	-	15.00
1963	-	16.SO
1964	-	17.25
1985	-	19.00
1966 -	19,90
1987 - 20.00
1986	-	26.00
1989	- 27.00
1990	-
mu- $275.2$ pep month TOTAL, woethly Bafie Pension
At retirement (age 55), the veatbe11 total basic pension unreduced for Hi ls also entitled to a lifetime
W&Kli JSfrHSiSt"'1"*'"'1-
in antitlad to hi* early retirement, supplement which is • is not entitled to
The member's monthly income lei Basic Conpany Plan pension lifetime supplement
(KRD min. at 1991 - CPP - Basle flenaionj (	$1,685.00 - $604.86 - $465.35 )
TOTAL MONTSLY IMCOKB
$	250.00
215.25
$
$ 465.25
-S11B3
11.090.14
-82-
I1AKKA T, torlT_»«tlrm»t
This sxanpls la based on a member who la Si years of aga aa of January 1, 1991 and haa credited service of 39 yaars. Thlt employee qualifies for early retirement.
The member's basic pension is accrued aa followsi
- 14 yaara to December 31, 1979	$	180.00
• 11 years from Jan. 1, 1980 to Doc. 31, 1990t
1980 -	$13.00
1981 *	14.00
1982 •	IS.00
1983 -	16.SO
1984 -	17.2»
198S •	19.00
1984 ■	19.SO
1987 •	30.00
1488 •	36.00
1989 -	27.00
1990 -	28.00
TOWU.-:	921S.2S par month
Total Monthly Basic pernios
fct retirement (aga $3), tha member la entitled to his total basic pension aa shown above reduced by 4t per year prior to hla normal retirement age. In this example, the basic pension la reduced by 4t for eaeh of the 10 years prior to age 6s. Therefore, hla pension would ba reduced by 10 * 4t or 404. The manfcer would alao ba entitled to a lifetime supplement reduced in tha seme manner as tha basic pension.
-83*
The member's iwntbly Income 1st
BaaLo Company Plan pension	$	395.2k
Subtract reduction (44 p*f yaar pfi< to *9* 6k)	-	158^1Q
Reduced baele company paneion	237. H
lifetime supplement! Minimum paneion Tor 30 or sore year Subtract 1991 CPP	of credited service $1*68S.00 - suAi
MLnlnuie from conpany pension plan b. service	sd on 30 years 1,080.14
Minimum from Company plan base (2S/30 a $1,080.14)	' years of service 900.12
subtract BasLc Pension	■ 393.2k
supplement needed	S04.87
subtract reduction 14% per yei	to age 65)
Reduced lifetime supplement	I 302.92
TOTAL MOKTSLY JWCOK* ($237.13	*2)	»_ liLdl
Moor imtnuuici nuts
non MUCK 1, w*
mam) Minim irraWM
The Conpany'a Group Insurance Pl*n providee Substantial protection for you and your dependents through contraeta underwritten by insurance conpnnles. Tha description in thia booklet la Lntandod to give you a gonoral explanation of tho Inaurad benefit! but it aheuld bo undoratood that tho natter insurance contraeta aro tha governing documents.
In addition to bonofita under thi$ group Irtauranco plan, hoapital and medieal bonofita Are available to you and your family under tho government plana In effect in your province Of reaidenee and are payable in accordance with provincial regulation*.
If you hav* any question* about your group inaurance or If ycu require aaaiatanoe in making elaiaa, your Suparviaor or Buman Resources Department can give you the Information you need.
1. SCHOOL! or INSURED BENEFITS rOR EMPLOYEES
		Life Inaurance	accidental Death $ Diamemberment_lnaurance
Kerch 1,	. 1991	$34,000	$34,000
January	1, 1992	37,000	37,000
January	1, 1993	39,000	39,000
KOTIi Eaployeea net actively at work on the above Dated dates shall have their coverage increased only upon their date of return to ectlve enployment.
-8S-
Weekly indemnity benet earning* rate with bar disability due to ac lllneas, to a maximum «
long teno dlaabillty t earning* rat* with t weekly Indemnity benefi
For Enployees and Dependent*!
t at 70t of your baate weekly fit* payable from flrat day of idftnt or fourth day due to 36 weeks per disability,
refit at 66-2/Jt of your bealc nefita conesenring whan your a oeaae.
lifetime maximum of >000 per peraon
These coverages are axplal »d Mr* fully In th* following page*. Th* *ccld«ntal dee n and diaraunfcerment Insurance, weekly indemnity, ***i-prlv to hospital, major medical and dental ear* benefit* apply only to thoa# accident* and •ickneae which are not cov rad by Worker's Compensation or *lmil*r legialation.
Plane refer to the descript »n of each type of coverage for an explanation of what happe • when you retire or terminate
2. WHO KAY U IK8VMO
You and your eligible dependent# become insured on the completion of 90 day* of work in a twelve month period.
Any employee aoeent from work on tha data ha becomes eligible will not ba eovarad until tha day hf returns to work. Any dapandant who it hoapltalitad on tha affactiva data of your Xnauranca will not ba eovarad until tha day aftar ralaaaa iron hospital.
Dapandanta eligible for insured banafita ara your apouaa and unmarried children undar 21 years of age. Coverage will be oontinued for a dapandant child beyond 21 «a long thereafter ta tha child Is 4 full*tin*, atudant attending an educational Institution oc on vacation therefrom. It la your responsibility to notify your Human kpaourcea Department or supervisor immediately of any change in your dependant!.
Tou will ba given an application fomf to complete and sign whan you became eligible for thia lniormce. The full coat of this group insurance plan i« paid by yoyr Company,
3. LIFE INSURANCE
Tha amount of your life insurance it ahown in tha schedule of Insured Benefits. In tha event Of you* death from any cause your life insurance wiil be paid to ttys beneficiary you have named, You may change your beneficiary at any time within the limits sat by law by completing a font Which may be obtained frcm you Hunan Mtourcae Department.
-87-
Tha full Mount of your llfo 1 suranca will ba eontli during any parlod for vhloh you a ■ sligibls to rscalva I T»r» Disability bsnsflta, xf you bacoma totally psrmansntly dlaablod your Long la ■ Disability banaflts » oontlnua until your normal ratlra* nt data, at which tiaa ) Ufa Insuranoa will ba raducad to < ba ium amount of Inauri as Is provided for amployaaa who n sirs at ths normal data, sxplainad la (a) balow.
Whan you ratlra In aecordanea Lth tha provisions of Coa^iany'a pan*Ion plan, your ] fs inauranca will ba followsi
(a) normal rstirsmsnt - the ai int of your Ufa Iniura will ba raducad to $4,000 is of your data of not ratiraasnt.
<b) Partial Disability ftetlran it (btfors aga 6b) -amount of your Ilfs Insurant will ba raducad to 64, as of your data of partial di ibllity rttlramsnt.
<c) 6p«olai farly ftatirasant (ba ura aga 65) - if you h
attained tha aga of 60 and craditad sarvioa undor tha Limltad Mtiramant Plan, 1 Inauranca will ba raducad 1
of aarvloa with tha Company,
iava 30 or mora yaars tanaa of tha John Lab is amount of your 1 64,000. Otharvi>«, y if your data of tarrlnat
(d)	65 Point Katlrsmant (baft
attalnsd tha sinlmum aga of ! yaars of orsdltsd sarvlca ti ths tarns of tha John Labatt amount of your Ilfs Insurant Otharwias, your Ufa insurant
> aga 65)	• If you h
and your comblnad aga . 1 85 points or mora um mitad Petlramant Plan, • will ba raducad to 64,0* will caasa as of your d-
You nay obtain an Individual lift insurance policy up to the anount of life Insurance which it cancelled when you retire or terminate tervice. Insurance la available seder this conversion privilege even though you are unable to paea a medical examination, but the premium rate will be baaed on your attained age at the date of conversion. Application for Individual insurance must be made to the insurance company within 31 daye of the date your group insurance it oancelled and during thie 31 day period your group life ineuranee It conildered ae In effect without cherge. Your other inturanee coverage! Cannot be converted to individual policiea.
ACCIDENTAL DEATH AND 0I*K£M6ERH*WT INSURANCE
The mount of your accidental death and dismemberment (AStb) insurance is ehown In the Schedule of insured Benefits. If, within 36$ days of and ea the reeultjof an accident, you Buffer any of the loaaea listed below, payment will be made ae indicated. I
% Payable
I for Loee of:
200%
100%
26%
Quadriplegia, paraplegia,
[hemiplegia
|Life, both hands, both feet, sight of both eyes, One band and one foot, one hand Or one foot and sight of One eye, use of [both hands or both feet, speech and hearing in both ears.
One arm or one leg, ute of one arm or one leg
-69*
66*2/3%	One hand, one foot, sight of one eye, apetch, hearing in both earl.
33-1/3%	Thumb and index finger, four flngera on one hand
23%	Three fingera on one hand, hearing in one ear, all toes of one foot.
16-2/3%	Thumb and one finger Of OAI hand, two fingera of one hand.
Your ADtD insurance includes eovirage for injury sustained while riding aa a passenger in ■ on, boarding or alighting
from, or being struck by a lic< not payable foe any loa4 self-deatruetion, war or eervlei country, OP injury ariaing 0u1 occupation or employment for wagl	led aircraft. Benefits are caused by suicide or .A the armed forces of any it or in the course any >r profit.
In the event of your death the paid to the beneficiary you payable in addition to your benefita under the X360 inaura person*	<D insurance benefit will be re named. This benefit is ife insurance. All other are payable to the insured
Your W56& insurance will be retire or terminate service wit	icelled as of the date you is conpany.
3-
S. KIIKLY INDEMNITY MN1FIT
If you become totally disabled and are prevented froa working due to a non-oeaupational aeeldant or p sickness not covered by Worker's Compensation, you will receive waakly indemnity benefits provided you art under tha car* of a lieeneed physician* If disability commences during a period of lay-off you will ba eligible for Waakly Indemnity bansflts from the data you are recalled to work only if you have 10 or more years seniority and you are recalled within a period of two weeke froa the data of lay-off aivd you era totally disabled on that date.
Tha mount of your weekly indemnity In basic weekly earning* rate ae of commence** When a general change in * under the terma of the labour agreemer weekly indemnity benefit from the <
change will be 70% of the baaio weekly t___	_____ _________
be entitled if you were et work. four weekly indemnity benefit payment* will be reduced by the mount of any disability payments which you are eligible to receive from the Canada Pension Plan or any Other government source.
tflt is 70% of your :he date disability is rates takes effect the mount of your 'ective date of such a to which you would
-91-
The benefit payment i« baaedl on e 7 day week, roe eeoh day of absence for which a benefit is payable you will receive one-seventh of the weekly benefit. Benefits are payable from the first day of absence II disability is due to accident, or from the fourth day of dii blllty due to illness. Payments contiaue aa long as you an disabled, up to a maximum of 26 weeks for each period of disability. (Refer to Long Term Disability insurance for benefits payable if disability continues for store than 26 % teka.)
where it la necessary for < i employee to have dental surgery, benefits will be payabli commencing on the fourth day following euch surgery and rill continue up to a maximum of two weeka for eny auch cli m, but only on receipt of proper certification by a dental oi il surgeon.
A disability resulting f) « the same cause as a previous disability will be treated • » a continuation of the disability unlass you have couplets!] recovtred and hava been back at work for at least 14 days.
Your weekly indemnity insui inc* will be cancelled as of the data you retire Of terminate service with the Company and your weekly indemnity benefits w: .1 cease as of that date.
6. LONG TfR* DISABILITY BSHtYir
Long term disability (LTD) benefits become payable only after you hava received weekly indemnity benefits for the maximum period, or when you have received Worker's Compensation payments for a continuous period of 26 weeks.
•92'
During the flrat 78 weak* of LTD benefit*, your benefit will be payable weekly at €6-2/Jt of your ftMic weekly aiming* r>k* In •(!<■«	th*» r**l*a< A« th« «n* of th« tint 79
weeks, your LTD benefit will be fixed at €6-2/31 of your bailo waakly earning* rate in effect in the 78th week of the LTD benefit period and thareaftar your LTD benefit will be payable In an equivalent monthly amount at the end of each month. For exanple, if your earning* rate in the 78$h week ia $19.75 per houri
(a)	your weekly earning* rate I* 40 x 119.11	=	$ 190.00
(b)	Tour weakly LTD benefit In the 16th<week
Is 66-2/3% of $190.00	- $526.69
(el thereafter your monthly LTD benefit!i*
4-1/3 x $526.69	• $2,282.32
Your LTD benefit payment* will be reduced by any disability payment* you are eligible to receive from Worker'* Condensation, the Canada Pension Plan, or other government aourca.
In order to qualify for LTD benefit* y^u mat be under the continuing care of a licensed physician, and during the flrat 78 week* of LTD benefits, be unable to {jerform a regular job available in the bargaining unit; thereafter you must be unable to engage in any gainful occupation for any anployer for which you are reasonably qualified b>| training, education or experience. If you are again disabled, due to the same or related cause, your absence will be treated ee * continuation of disability under the LTD benefit unless you have been back at work for at least aix month*.
during the continuation of r” that In no event will ben< retirement data, if you i benefit* will eaaaa aa of y< benefits will ba payable oauaad by eeif-lnflisted . insurrection, war, aarvlca i or participation in a riot, trom working for anothar amp
lability aa defined above except Ita be paid beyond your normal >uld elect to retire early, LTD r data of early retirement. NO r abeencea due to disabilities Jurist while lane or insane, the armed forces of any country, r during disabilities resulting /or.
If you engage in rehablli :lve employment, your LTD will continue foe up to 24 montfia but will be reduced by 75% or what you earn from rehebilit tlve enployment. For example, if
NOTX: You may not receive Wages or other allowances such ss holiday pay, vacation pay, Weekly Indemnity, LTD or Worker's Compensation or similar benefits from more than one eouroe for the iih day or part day.
7. SIMl-FMVAft HOSPITAL 8SNIPIT
YOuf provincial health plan <OHIP> p: 'ides basic hospital benefits foe you and your family but gar rally limits benefits for room charges to the Amount payable i ■ ward Accommodation. Insured benefit* are provided under the wipany's plan for you and your covered dependents to Supples* : the provincial plan benefit and provide payment for >on charges up to semi-private aeoomnodatlon In a lit l**d	hospital. If
hospitalized in a private room the bens It will be limited to that which would have	been	pai- for semi-private
accommodation. These benefits apply in all confinements approved by a licensed physician exdept these covered by Worker1 a compensation.
Your ami-private hospital insurance will be cancelled as of the date you retire or terminate service with the Company except thati
(a)	If you are totally disabled wh^n your insurance la cancelled, benefits will be extended for up to one year for axpanses incurred during the continuance of that disability.
(b)	If one of your dependents is In hospital when your inaurence la cancelled, benefit, vsijll be extended for a maximum Of one year provided the dependent remains in hospital.
(e) If a dependent wife ia pregnant on the data her insurance La cancelled, she will be entitled to semi-private hospital benefita up to	the date of
childbirth or termination Of pragnancy as if the insuranoe were still in force.
-98-
e. MAJOR MF.IJCAUIPENSE BEOTlIlT
BA*ic medical benefits At under your provincial has expense benefit under t provides benefits for y certain expenses not covs medical plans. Expenses expense benefit are listed
provided for you end your family h plan (OHXP). The major medical i Company's group insurance plar i and your covered dependents foi id by the provlncLel hospital tn< allowed under the major medical •Blow.
! the services are reoonnended by 4 -al legislation does not prohibit
registered graduate nurses who are n your home and are not related to
Benefits are payable only physician and if provln inaurance of any euch axpe
-	drugs and nedlclnee di isnead on the written prescrlptior of ■ physician
“ private duty nursing b not Ordinarily resident you OK your dependants
” hospital ehargaa for other than room and board not paid by the provincial plan .
• oxygen and ite administration
-	blood and blood plasma
” rental of wheal chair, hospital bed or reeplrator/ventllatoi ” splints, trusses, braamerii, crutches, casts
-	artificial llmba and eyep provided the loss of the natural limb or eye occurred whijls insured under thia plan
-	services or duly qualified and licensed physiotherapists Other than members of the inaured'a family

•	local ambulanee services
- Mtrgftncy trtniporUtlon by « lictijitd ground «nbuUnct«
Lnaluatng tl* mIhiImm, teo snA tro« tha Maras* hoapit*& in
which treatfnent can be provided (aub^eot to on* round trip per calendar year).
•	strvieei of ■ licensed ehlropraotdr or osteopath when operating in their rocognla*d field |o£ expertise (eligible only after provincial plan asxiaum hag been reached).
You are retired to pay tha first $10 expenses incurred in each calendar year. This ia known *a < tie 'deductible" and 1* applied to each insured person, employ* or dependent, except that the total deductible for all a«ab*i i Of your family will not be more than $20 in each calendar y< ir. If expenses which are included In the deductible cocur i Lthin the Last three month* of the calendar year the iim si ^eneea may be applied agelnst tho deductible for the next cel* ider year. If two or more inaured members of your family an injured in a comnon accident only one deductible will be ipplled agalnat their resulting combined expeneee incurred in i ly one calendar year.
The amount of benefit payable le detarelijed ea followii
(a)	the charge* are totaled for all allowable expertise incurred by the employee or dependent during the calendar year
(b)	from thia total the caductlble ia subtracted
(e> the major medical expenae benefit then pays lOOt of the remainder
-97-
The maximum total amount pa pat lifetime. However, aft full calendar year, up to $ be reinstated on January 2n tha maximum exceed tha origl
bla for any individual ia $10*000 a paraon has been inaurad for a 500 of tha original banafit will of aaoh yaar but at no time will l amount.
Tha major medical expense haalth ohaek-upa and examln of glasses, dontai aarvic raaultlng from an act of w board* hoapital and madleal tha provincial plan, axpana Worker's Compensation Act, o or dapandant doaa not hava t
banafit doaa not covar periodic Iona, aye rafractlona or fitting i, travel for haalth, axpanaea chargae for hoapital room and axpanaea for aarvlcaa covered by . for injury or illneaa covarad by any aarvica for which an amployae
p*y-
Xf whan you ratire you are explained in Section 3, you continue to ba inaurad for a will continue to ba require incurred in each calendar each inaurad paraon with th of your family not to axca will than ba raimburaad incurred after tha data of deductible. Tha maximum incurred after your data individual member of your fa
titled to group Ufa insurance aa nd your eligible dependents will or medical expanaa benefits. You to pay the flrat $10 of expenses ear aa a 'deductible* applied to total deductible for all members i $20 in each calendar year. You >r 60% of any eligible axpanaea •our retirement in axceaa of the >tal amount payable for expenses ! retirement ia $5,000 for each iy.
1-98-
If you terminate aarvle* and do nr* qualify for retired benefits your major medicaL insurance w 11 be cancelled at of th# data on which your aarrlea it bars nated, mxcapt that tha following axtandad banafita are provided
(a) If you are totally disabled wh n your inaurince ia cancelled, major medical banafita ill ba extended for up to one year, provided gueh expert* a ara incurred during tha continuance of that diaability
(b)	if one of your dapendanta if in hospital whan your insurance la cancelled, banafita ill ba axtandad for a maximum of one year provided the d pendant remain* in tha hospital
(o) if a dependant wife ia pregnant on tha data her Insurance ia cancelled, benefit* will ba pay bli for treatment aa a result of that pregnancy.
9. DENTAL CARE BENEFIT
Dental care benefits ire provided for you and your eligible dapendanta subject to the limitation* a d exclusion* described below.
Eligible service* are all reasonable! and customary dental aarvlce* which are recommended ea necessary and performed by a qualified dentist or physician and for [whLch a Treatment plan has been submitted to and approved by the insurer before the aarvicaa are rendered. The filing of a Treatment Plan ia not
-99-
required if the total coat >f the proposed work la leas than $500 os if treatment is rendered in emergency conditions. Bli.gi.ble dental service* re classified under three aajor categorical '
(a) Basic Services - exaaJ ationa and cleaning of teeth (once in any six-month peric ), extractions, fillings and other necessary treatment foi the relief of dentel pain.
(b) Restorative Services crowns and inlays, bridge work, dentures, root canaJ therapy (endodontiee), and the treatment of tlaeuee ai bones supporting the teeth (periodontics).
(o) Orthodontia - propi fitting of natural taeth and prevention or corrects of lrregularltlee of the teeth.
You will be reimbursed for Services incurred by you 01 maximum for each insured j You will also be r*imbur**< Services and 50% of the maximum benefit of $4,0C Restorative Services and January 1, 1992 an annual < provided at the beginning < to restore the lifetime mai time will the maximum axe will be paid on tha basli charged or the amount etati Schedule of reaa in the optional procedures ere poi accordance with the procedui
‘00% of the cost of eligible Basic your eligible dependents up to a rson of $700 in s calendar year, (or 75% of the cost of Restorative >st of orthodontia to a lifetime for each inaured person for Orthodontia combined, effective Inetetement of up to $500 will be each calender year, if required, wm to the level of $4,000. at no id tha original amount. Benefits of the leaser of the actual fee in the current Dentel association rovlnce in which you reside. If Lble, benefits will be payable in involving tha smallest fee,
100-
Expenses Incurred for the replacement of dentures are eligible for benefit!, except that If the replacement ie for a denture for which benefit! were payable tinder tjhls plan, benefit* for the replacement will be payable only if - at leant 3 yeare have elapeed alnea the plaeeaent oe replacei nt or which benefite were paid. In addition, benefit* ere ayable for rabaalng, rellnlng or repairing of denturea, Bern Ita will not be paid for the replacement of denturee which he< been loet, misplaced or atolen.
Dental care benefit, ere not payable fi for payment from another source euc) Insurance plana, Workers’ Coapeneatloi expense* incurred prlnelptlly for coastal reeultLng from an act of war, or any employee or dependent does not have to p)
any service eligible ae provincial health sr government plans, t purposes, expenses
■rvlcs for which an
Your dental care Insurance will be cancel retire or terminate service end claims wj any service performed after the date on i cancelled.
ad as of the date you 1 not be accepted for ich your insurance Is
10. IUV TO CLMK
When you or any of your dependent. arjp entitled to receive insured benefits, you should obtain the inecessary claim forme from your medical department, foreman or department head. When you have eompleted the employee's portion of the claim form you should have your physician or dentilt complete his section. Then send the completed hospital, major medical or dental form to the Insurance company and the completed weekly indemnity or LTD form* to the medical department.
-101-
In order to qualify (or pa; *nt o( benefits, claims must be
submitted within the time lii te sat oat be low i
(a)	IfllKLY ZNDBNXZTY Btlflf ! - Claim must be (lied within 90 days of coonencament o disability, in ease of illness benefits will be paid > previously described only if you see a lioensed physic! i no later than the fourth day of disability and remain ' ider the doctor's care until you are able to return to w rk. if you do not see a doctor by the fourth day, your b tefits will be payable only from the day on which you .ret visit a doctor, in case of accidenti you snist see :ha dootor no later than the day following the ecoident in order to qualify for benefits from the first day; ot irwiee benefits will be payable as if the disability is due to illness. Diagnosis and prescription by telep >ne only does not constitute a ■visit" for this purpos >
(b)	LONG TIJIM DISABILITY B 4IPXT - Claim must be filed within 6 months following the its froe which LTD benefits become payable but the earlie the better in order to avoLd any delay In eoraencament o your LTD benefit payments.
(c)	SBMZ-PRXVATB HOSPITAL B <SflT - Claim must be filed within 90 day# of the date o hospitalisation. Standard claim forma are available at ell hospitals. Benefits will be paid to you unleae you xnplate the appropriate taction of this form to assign ben fite to the hospital.
(d)	MAJOR KBDZCAL BXPER8B B HEPIT - Claim must be submitted no later than the end of t ■ calendar year following the year in which the expense w ■ incurred except that, when your insurance ie cancelled cr any reason, proof of claisi muat be submitted within 90 >ya of the date of termination of
102-
your lniurtnu. ItMliod bill* tnd !ititn*nta ihovlng the
MfcUnt'a nim, 4*tee of aarvlea, pMtatLptien nuattan for
drug expenses and Amount of the chargee, must aceosipany the claim form verifying all such aapenaas Including those which you have paid to satisfy th[i deductible. It ia Suggested that aueh claim* not V* submitted until the total billa txcaad the deductible by at least $10.
|a) DBNTKL cam BENEFIT - claim* mult be submitted by the end of the calendar year following the year In which the expanse waa incurred except that- proof of elaim mute ba lubmitttd within 90 daya of that date on which your inauranca ia cancelled foe any reasjon, A separate elaia fern auat ba filLad out for aaoh ataopar of your faally for whoa you ara aaking elaia. Tha dpntiet'a atatenant on this form, or any bills supporting | your elaia, must show the patient'« naaa, dates and nature of the treatment and the charge. If the total cost associated with proposed dental work Ia $500 or aora, a treatment plan must be submitted to the insurer aa explained in Section 9, You should have your dentist complete a claim fora setting out detail* aa to the proposed treatment and the cost and mend this form to the insurance company pfor tnslr review, you will then be advised aa to the charges, or portion thereof which the insurer consider* eligible for benefits. Upon completion of the dental treatment you again submit a Claim to receive payment of the approved benefits.
Failure to eee your doctor promptly or to submit your elaia together with the doctor's or dentist's repert or other itemised statements within (he above time limits will result In the rejection of your claim.
-103-
PROVINCIAL HOSPITAL AND KBDI
The provincial health pi benefit# for you and yoi unmarried children under ag standard ward eara, medloal Offlca, hospital and home, of anesthetics, diagnostic and osteopathic treatment treatments* (^limited to at specified dental procedut regulations.
The Company pays the requii for the financing of the pre will be covarad for benefit for yourself and your deper Health office.
Upon retirement under th< Continue to be covered for premium required on yOur bet
The major medical benefit retirement will be centimis(
Please see your Human fcei Information.
. PLANS
(OHIP) provide# basic health eligible dependent! (spouse and tl), OHIP provides benefits for irvlces such as doctor’s calls at rgloal procedures, administration icedursa and x-rays, chiropractic
•chlropodlstic* and pediatric tl dollar maximum), eye teste and > as stipulated by government
payroll tax or required premium# icial health plan. All employees provided you apply for coverage its through the local Ministry of
,abatt retirement plan you will IIP and the congtany will pay any
>r which you are covered after » your tpouaa on your death.
*cea Department for any further
04-

(•)
(b)
ACfttIKINT between labett’e Ontario Breweries, Division of Labatt Irewlng) Company Limited (Metro Toronto Brewery) and Leic*l 304.
WHIfttAS the Company has entarjed into 4 Collective Agreement with the Above nam^d Union covering a bargaining unit in Toronto.
AND VHIRZA9 the said Partita fiave agreed to nake '	'	'	hieh l» to be •
e Agreement, and tie edminietratlon t With under the tlve Agreement.
this Auppiementery Agreement! eupplement to the said Colled any grievance# arising out of of this supplement may be d Otievance Procedure of the Col
HOW THEREFORE the parti* continuation of the Ouaran< hereinafter set forth with < become effective on the let 44! Or on any later date on i continuation hie boon reoelv. Government holding theti
agree to the d Wage Plan ae h continuation to f September, 1996 :h approval for from the Federal
The Plan meets the ceguIranian!)# of Employment and Immigration Canada with respect to supplemental Unemployment Benefit Plana,
Payments by the Company pursuant to this Plan will be classed At deductible expeneee for corporate Income t»* purpoaea, and,
-10S-
Tha racaipt by oyaas of th* banafita provid by this Han will not disqualify such amploy* ttom raoalvlng iy port of tha vnamployna Inauxanoa Sanaflt to which th*y would otharwi k* •-►‘Mod.
PORPOSI
Tha purpoa* of thi Plan l» to provlda a wethod ■ guaranteeing inct i to certain employees who e: laid off.
ILIQIBILIW POR Pt JCIPATIOR ZN TBS VLAN
Any regular hour] rated employe* having at laai on* ytar of ti orlty determined a* of tl September lot is dletsly preceding hi* lay© •hall b* eligible > participate in this Plan.
Rotwithatanding classified as regti 196* shall not b« Plea until Septemt ainolovaa's attal •aniorlty.
ha abova, employee* n<
r amployee* prior to Hatch 2: llglbla to partioipata in thi lit of th* y*ar following tl *nt of thraa (31 vaara «
106-
3.
EXCEPTIONS
this Mi* hu m epplieeti 10 m4 provide* no
benefit* fori
(a)	tmployeee who h*v« been laid off for disciplinary r***on* an^ if such lay-off la questioned under the Oruseanee Procedure of the Collective Agreement [final disposition of any grievance will determine the employee'e status under the Plan.
(b)	Employs*! who have been [laid off because of
any strike, lockout, *lcM«down, picketing or other	action by employes* of any other
employer who are represented for collective bargaining purposes by | any of the Unions whicn wars party to the Ontario Industry Memorandum of Agreement! which led to the renewal of thie Plan, Or by any Local thareof or eueoessor Unions thereto.
te) Employee, who have been terminated because Of specific direction or | decree from and Governmental authority which hat the effect of	curtailing	any of the Company's
operations; unless	I-
{i)Th# direction or decries is the result of an illegal act omitted by the Company or one of Its representative'*, or
(li)The direction or ^ecree purports to change the method of bjser distribution or bear retailing within the Province of Ontarioi or
-101-
(d) Employees wt ■ny act of foreign powa insurrection
(•) Employees * arranged wit absence wltt llau of theJ be deemed tc such period.
4.	DISQUALIFICATION I
An employee who i otherwise ba eli Flan shall not ri for any waaki
(I)	In which I fallad to t which ha has from U.I. b< carving a twi
(II)	in which h# I to keep hii with tha C casaa where '
qualify for ' U.I. waiting
have baan laid off bacauaa of r or tha hostile act of any or by any act of sabotage or by any act of Qod.
are laid off and who have tha company to taka a leave of t pay for a specific period in lay-off. Thaaa employees will ave opted out of tha Flan for
, BENEFITS
' bean laid off and who would ble for participation in tha live any payment under tha Flan
hea been on lay-off and haa ily for U.l. benefits, or in wn disqualified or disentitled iflte by any reason other than 2) waek waiting period.
i been on layoff and has fallad ilf registered for employment ida Manpower Centre in thoee :h registration ia necessary to t. benefits or for reduction of irlod.
08-
(ill)	in which ha hat failed employment deemed ault Unemployment Inturanct 1	r refused to accept It for him by the natation.
< tv)	In which ha has fiilad for any appropriate w least one normal work!: for reasonable eauae.	a accept and report k assignment of at day unless excused
|V>	In which ha it In r provided by the Comp Indemnity or Long Term 1	lipt of a benefit y’t Insured Weekly ■ability Plane.
|vt)	After ha hae become en1 pension under the Coi Pension Plan.	tied to receive any my or Government
(Vll)	In respect of whieh compensation from the 1 Board for any compel Ulneae.	s it qualified for rkar'a Compensation ..able aeeident or
BBflKttlONS
For the purpose of this Plant
"Pages" thill scan actual earnings for work performed and vacation pay, payment far any leave of absence with pay granted, e.g. jury duty, bereavement pay, payment for Statutory Holidays and call-in pay.
"Week" shall mean tha Company's payroll weak.
■109-
■Compensated and aveiial
lo any particular week
(a)	All hours worked Company or for »i week, plum
(b)	All hours not vor week but for which employer, plus
(e)	All hour. sohad employee who la n haa not worked for of work, plus
(d) All hours sched employee who il o not worked for an work after being according t o t h e Company that SU
a hour" means at applied >r an employeei
by the employee for the ' Other employer in such
id by the employee in such m receives way** from any
isd in such week foe an
l On lay-off and which he my reason other than lack
led In such week for an lay- off and which he haa reaaon other than lack of given reasonable notice ttablished practice or the 1 scheduled hours were
"Week of lay-off » na a week in which the employee's compensate' and available hour- are Iasi than forty (40).
110-
6.	BimiTS PROVIDED POR UI0-O7T |iAJLOt«l3
Subject to the terae and conditions of tha plan an herein ant out each eligible ajmployaa who la laid off front the bargaining unit^ ahall racalva in addition to any vegee aarnad id tho week a baneflt from the Plin for each waak of layoff calculated by determining tho product qf Itema J, 2 and 3 ba'.ow and deducting from luch 1 product the amount of Item 4,
l. laventy percent (70%) for altgibla employee* aa hereinabove defined. ^
3. The etreight time hourly fete Of the employee In effect aa of the tine ofl layoff.
3.	The excail of forty over (the eompeneeted and available hour* of the employee.
4.	The actual benefit, If any, for whleh eueh employee la eligible under the Unemployment Insurance Act for such weak.
-Ill-
7.
WZLFABX BENEFITS
«INC LAY-OFF
An employee Wl participate in t applicable to m the end of the I which he hit w until the end o he* drewn e ben the later. Wei Motion doe# no1 Company'! lneur> OLsabllity Pler.i wages actually accident,
in laid off continues to Welfare Plan of the Company yeea in hi* Bargaining Unit to h following the last month in d in the Bargaining Unit, or ■ laat month during which he under thin Plan, whichever ie Plan for the purpose of this elude the Pension Plan or the eekly Indemnity and Long Term ieh cover only indemnity for •t because of illness or
An employee on has eeasad to ji restored to ] completion ot
Bargaining Unit.
off who pursuant to the above, Cipete in the Welfare Plan la Icipation Imnedistely Upon ht (8) hours work in the
12-
e.
DURATION OF BENEFITS
The maximum benefit entitlement ef an employee at any time ahall not exceed that benefit eetabliehed in accordance with Table "A". However, the snployee's actual benefit entitlement will be leaa than the maximum benefit entitlement If he hai used Any benefits and has not subsequently restored them.
Weeks of benefits At# restored based upon the formula of l/10th of a week for each eight (0) full hours during which the employee earned wages from the company up to thf employee's benefit entitlement set Out in Table aAa below. No credits towards future benefit entitlements ere allowed for wages earned during any period in Which the employee Is Already entitled to the maximum benefits set Out in Table "A”.
-Hi-
TABlJ 'A'
SENIORITY •	BENEFIT'1	
15 years or more	18 weeks	of benefits
10 yeara or more	65 weeks	of benefits
$ yeara or more	62 weeka	of benefits
4 years or more	46 weeks	of benefits
3 year* or more	35 weeks	of benefits
Completed yeara o	seniority determined	aa of the
September First lmne Lately preceding hie lay-off.
Maximum benefit entl Lament.
The maximum number e week* of benefit* which an employee may see during any twelve <11} month period commencing September let ehal not exceed hie Maximum Benefit Entitlement determl »d a* of that September 1st In accordance with Tabl "A* above.
Each eligible employee**' weeks of benefit* ahall be decreased by one week for each week in reapect of which he Is on lay-off end!in receipt of benefits for more than thirty-two (32) hour*; and by 4/Sthe of one week for each week in which he is |>n lay-off and in receipt of beneflte for more than twenty-four (24) hours) and by 3/Sths of ona waak for each t>Uk In which ha la on lay-off and In racalpt of benafita {for more than aixtean (16) hours) and by 2/Sths of ona weak for aach week in which he is on lay-off and in receipt of benafita for more than eight(8)
114-
hourif and by l/5th of a weak in which ha la on lay-off
and in receipt of benefits for elijht (8) hours or less;
and hit wtiht af banaiiia aha11 aiaa ba dtaraatttf by ana
week for aach weak in which ha I it on lay-off but wit disqualified for any or the 'reaaona tat out in aubaactlena <1|, (li), (ill) and (lv) of taotion 4.
DEDUCTIONS
Any payment made undar thia Flan bhall ba subject to any deductions required by Federal, Provincial or Municipal authority or by the provieioe* of the Collective Agreement, or by voluntary authorisation from the employee oonaerned.	1
20.
APPLICATIONS
Employ*** shall b* c follow such procedu applications ■■ ah«ll con*ult*tlon with th* of *ny fact meterl employs*'* benefit rl th* forfeiture of «ny th* Plan for a period th* discovery of such pr«elud* any oth*r imposed subject to Collective Agreement.
ilred to observe euch rule* end i and make such report* and i prescribed by th* Company after lion. The willful falaifieation to the d*t*rminatlon of an :■ under the Plan shall result in inefit rights he nay have under twelve (12) months subsequent to ilalfication, and this shall not iciplinary action which stay be ie Orlsvanoe Procedure of th*
11.	REPORTING
The Company will make periodic reports to th* Union weekly while employe is are laid off and receiving benefits under th* Plan and quarterly if no employees are on lay-off, giving the Union complete Information aa to the number of enployies who have been laid off, th* duration thereof, the payment* made to each individual under th* Plan, th* nunier of ineligible and disqualified employee*, and such otier similar information as may be relevant.
*116-
12.
DURATION OF AGREEMENT
Thlt Agreement shall continue until August 31, 1994. During negotiations for renewal of the relevant Collective Agreement, the Union le free to request amendments to this Agreement which shall also be part of such negotiations, but on the understanding that any amendments to thie Agreement will not take effeet any earlier than September 1, 1994.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties heretp have AFFIJ^D THEIR SIGNATURE THIS _ML DAT CF , 1992.
• 119“
atua
ENu* UflN M AM SudwaiMi
Ym«I Shandy
ACROSS CAUDA
C>t
Eduon*
EU>« Slock Mil liquor
VehrM Cr»«m Poriac
Cbtae ClMkie I19M
Ouinnesk
IliRATtTtlEST
LA BATTS ONTARIO BREWERIES / OhMun wlaoalt Brawing Comp»nyUmiHd
Box 6050 Stn a,A',' 50 Resources Road Etobicoke, OntarloM9N 3N7 Telephone (416)348 0751
Deceeber 21, 1989
Hr. C. Flynn,
Plant Chairman,
Local 304,
Labatt'a Ontario Breweries,
Metro Toronto Brewery.
Dear Hr. Flynn*
Thia vill confirm the Company's intention with respect to the satellite warehouse at 6800 Gorevay in Mississauga. The Company agrees that all employees classified as "StagingjMachint Operators" shall be covered by the scope clause of the current Collective Agreement vittl Local 304.
For purposes of 'weekly* over[lee distribution, it is agreed that overtime ahall be offered by location (le. Metro Staging and Gortvay Warehouse) to eeployeea working at the location vhere the Coepany requires the overtlee to be Performed. For purposes of "weekend” overtime distribution, the Union and Coepany agree that overtlee opportunities shall be offered {to all Staging Department eeployeea in accordance with Departeental practice, regardless of the location of the overtime. It Is agreed that ithc teres "weekend” overtlee shall be defined by the current Departmental understanding of those terms.
The Company further agrees that contemplated changes in overtime distribution end staffing procedures vill be discussed with the Unioa prior to Implementation.
This letter shell renain in effect during the tern of the current Collective Agreement, and shall, unless specifically renewed by the parties cease to be effective upon the expiry of thia Collective Agreement.
S. E. Vuthrsann
Employee Relations Heneger
For the Union*
ACROSS CANADA
flttft AT ITS BEST
1U
BMign
50 AM
Shandy
Cryual
(.PA
ScNOWt’	Eit/» Slack Mil Liquor
LMMli'iiitf	Vtivel Crtam Po.-tar
C<*i<ic	Oulnnait
C»M« LgM
LA BATTS ONTARIO BREWERIES I Division of Lsbstt Browing Aompany Umkad
Box 5050, Sin "A'? SO RsseurceiRoad, Etobicoke, Ontario M9N 3N7 Telephone (416)246-075!
Decesbec 21, 1988
Hr. C. Plynn,
Plant Chairman,
Local 304,
Labatt'a Ontario Breweries, Metro Toronto Brewery.
Dear Nr. Flynn*
Re: Lieu Day Requests (Articlol21.03)
It if agreed that employees may sake requests folr lieu days, as outlined in Article 21.03, fallowing return from vacatlonl |U6h requests shall be in writing and provide at least three (3) veeks jotlce of the lieu day requested.
All other provisions pertaining to lieu days as outlined In Article 21.03 remain in effect.
Your# truly.
S.	E. Vuthasnn Employee Relations Manager
For the Union:
ACROSS CAM MIA
^Labalfs
■iEJI AT ITS KST
LlgN 50 Alt BudwSaui Schooner LiWIII L10 CIIIPC Cists* k*gN
hwU Shane* CysiH I PA
-	SMCCI
Elba Slock Mall L •goof Valval Ciaam Fonsi
IABATTS ONTARIO BREWERIES / OMl Box 5050, Stn. "AT 50 Resources Road,
December 21, 1963
Utflatt Brewing Company limited
>ke, Ontario M«N 3N7 Telephone (416)248-0751
Hr, C. Flynn Plant Chairmen Local 304
Ubalt'a Ontario Braveries Hatro Toronto 8rev«ry
Mr. Flynni
In the event that the Cocpany d Department, it ia agreed that e seniority on or prior to Pebrua provisions in the Collective Ag departmental seniority than all seniority in Staging after Febr AS long as theCorevay Varehous
lea to reduce manpower in the Staging jyeea vho held Staging Department 17, 1905 shall, notwithstanding any Dent, be deemed to hold greater iae employees vho acquired departmental / 27, 1985. This letter shall apply for l a temporary Company facility.
Youra truly,
oi t\4fi______
S. Z. Vuthaann Employee Relations Manager
ACSOStCANAOA
Biu*
Biv* U9«
SOWS

IsMH'i L-'«	Wv* C-c.im
fUj«*	r»,innr»s
CUtijc I >9*11
LABATT'S ONTARIO BREWERIES i Division of Ubttt Brewing Company Limited
Box SOSO, Stn. "A',' SO Resources Road, Etob*coka, Ontario MSN 8N7 Telephone (416) 249-0751
December 21, 1963
Hr. C. Flynn,
Plant Chairman,
Local 304,
Labatt's Ontario Braveries, Metro Toronto Brevery
Dear Mr. Flynni
Ra: Deferred Retirement
Should mandatory retirement at age 65 be no longer permitted by lav in
this province and a regular employee continues in employment beyond his
normal retirement date, the following conditions shall govern such
employment and be added to the Collective Agreement.
1.	The Pension to which the employee has become entitled at his normal retirement date {the "Pension") shall be frosen as of the employee’* normal retirement date as defined in the Pension Plan.
2.	The employee’* Pension shall become payable as of the first day of the aonth immediately following the month the employe* ceased to be employed with the Company or as of the first day of the month immediately preceding the enployee'a seventy-first (71) birthday whichever shall first occur (the "Pension Date").
3>	The enployee's Pension will include any escalation benefits which
Occur froa his normal retirement date to his Pension Date.
4.	No contribution to the Pension Plan will be made after the employee has reached his normal retirement data and no service shall be credited after the aforementioned date.
5.	An employee's Pension will not be affected by any amendment! made to the Pension Plan after the employee's normal retirement date.
6.	An	employee's pension benefits will be actusrially reviewed
effective as at the Pension Date having regard to the enployee's Pension having been deferred ainc* his normal retirement date.
- 2 -
7.
8.
For purposes of celculat: n any alnlaua pension supplement, tht Canada Fanalon Plan am Old Ago Security benefits, vhere applicable, will be taken ato account at the level In effect at the eeployee'a normal retli meat date.
An employee who continues normal retlreneat date ae entitled to only the lneur< on retirement ae at hla no:
n tha eaploy of the Coapany altar hla defined in the Pension Plan, ahell be velfare benefice provided to enployeee al retlresent date.
Yours very t ml
S. E. Vuchmann
Xaployee Baletioae Manager
Por the Unioni

BM
Glut bfM
M All ScMone* UMB't U< CIlIM ClMSifl LiflM
Cika Swek Mill Uquw Vtiv«i Craen Ponar Gvnnatl
LAQATTS ONTARIO BREWERIES I Division of Labatl Browing Company Limited
Bex SOSO, 8in. “A" SO Raaourees Read, Etobicoke, Ontario M9N 3R7 Tel*pta*(4l6) 248 0751
December 21. 1908
Hr. C. Flynn,
Plant Chairman,
Local 304,
LabatCa Ontario Breweries, Metro Toronto Bravery.
Dear Hr. Plynni
Re: Sickness Benefits
An employee's eligibility for sick days and participation In the Weekly Indemnity and Long Term Disability Plana ceases Immediately upon his layoff and is reinstated upon his recall to vork apd completion of eight (8) hours vork in the Bargaining Unit.
Notwithstanding the above, an employee vlth ten (10) or sore years seniority vho is laid off, vlthin tvo (2) weeks or1 less, is unable to report to work due to sickness or non*occupttlonal| aooident, shall be eligible for participation In the Weekly Indemnity1 and Long Tern Disability Plana effective the date of hia recall.
Yours truly.
S. E. Vuthnann
Employee Relations Manager
For the Union:
ACHOSS CANADA
B4u* l<0« MAI*
UtMl'f UC Cxcue ClllW LiQM
TwiM Shandy Cryaial I PA Setod ■lia Suet Mali iquo V»*#i Cream Porte* Guinnei*
IABATTS ONTARIO BREWERIES / OM% if Labatt Braving Company Limited
Box SO50, Stn. "A'.’ 50 Reiources Road Icoke. Ontario MON 3N7 Telephone (416) 248-0751
December 21, 1980
Hr. C. Flynn,
Plant Chairman,
Local 304,
Labatt’s Ontario Breweries, Metro Toronto Brewery.
Dear Mr. Flynns
Fei Gj
Notwithstanding Section 2 (EH the G.V.F., employ##* classlfl ratification, shall be ellglb) achieve naniority and have at ns of the September 1st luedl
Notwithstanding Section 30, pt eight (8) weeks of benefit ent shall also apply to employees employees on March 21, 1988 pi of the Technological Change $«
Tours truly,
S. E. Vutheann
Employ## Relations Manager
nteed Vaae Plan
ility for Participation in the Plan) of as probationary employees on the date of o participate in the Plan provided they St one (1) year of seniority determined ly proceeding layoff.
2, (technological change) the additional ament in subparagraphs (1) and (ii) were classified as probationary dad they meat all the other requirements on.
For the Union:
fir
few/ 3‘^/m
Gin* lt«N MAW 0uO*a< *w
School’d’ IjdjM * M» CIMWC ClJSWC l>9hl
Twill SdiwTr C'^iAl I PA Select
Ciiw Slock M.w iK|ia> veim Cifim Pu>w< GbMwwit
LA BATTS ONTARIO BREWERIES I Division of Ltbett Brewing Corfoeny Limited
Bex 5050, gin "AT SO Resources Rosd.Etob leeks, Ontario M9N 3N7 Telephone (416) 248-07S1
Deoenber 21, I960	'
Mr. C. Flynn, plant Chairman,
Local 304,
Labatt's Ontario Breweries,
Metro Toronto Bravery,
Dear Mr. Flynnt
This will confirm that the Company will salntaln Hi current practices respecting balancing and posting of overtime hours in the Transportation Oepartnent,
Yours very truly,
S. X. Vuthmann
Xnployee Relations Manager
for the Union:
ACftOHCANADA
^Labatfs
IflRAriTlIiSI
Blua
aiue l-9~ SO Alt
BcHoofi*	E»'« SiMk MM L«uo<
LaMtt * UM	Valval C'*Mn Pg>w
Clatua	' GuMinaaa
OuM liON
LABATTS ONTARIO BREWERIES / OMi	gtlabett Brewing Company Limited
Box SOSO, 8m. "A'; 50 Resources Road, looks, Ontario MAN 3NT Telephone (41«?4fl-C751
December 2l( I486
Re; Prt etlontry Employees
This will confira our understai Ing reached with respect to grievance and arbitration right* for probetli ary employees. It Is agreed that this letter Coras part of the Collei Ive Agreement and vlll apply to override any provisions of the Collectl' 1 Agreement vhich are In conflict.
Probationary employee# ah; 1 be entitled!
1. To lodge a gi evance only In reaped of discharge from employe it or non-payment of vages.
usual fashio; On a discharge case, the standard cause for ar Itral review of the Company has acted in an arbltr y or discriminatory manner or in bad faith. It i agreed that ths usual "just cause" test shall n : apply.
3. To have a fa * and just hearing vith a Department Steward In a tendance, If the employee so desires, prior to the Scrrpany's termination of his