COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
BREWERY, GENERAL AND PROFESSIONAL WORKERS' UNION
TORONTO,ONTARIO AND
LABATT ONTARIO BOWERIES DIVISION OP LABATT BREWING COMPANY LIMITED (METROTORONTOB^WERY)
1994-1995
A PH AVR
-3 1995
00672 (04)
THIS EDITION IS PREPARED FOR PURPOSES OF CONVENIENCE ONLY, AND FOR ACCURATE REFERENCE RECOURSE SHOULD BE HAD TO THE COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT BEARING THE ORIGINAL SIGNATURES OF THE PRINCIPALS. THE OFFICIAL LEGALLY BINDING DOCUMENT IS THAT WHICH CONTAINS THOSE AFOREMENTIONED ORIGINAL SIGNATURES.
INDEX
Scction25	Bereavement	44
Section28	Cast of Living Allowance	46
SectionlS	Disciplinary Action	IS
Section27	Duplication of Benefits	46
Section32	Duration and Revision of Agreement	32
Section23	Education Leave of Absence	44
Section?	Establishment of Seniority	10
Section 17	Grievance Procedure	20
	Oroup Inference Plans	77
Section 26	Guaranteed Wage Plan	46
	Guaranteed vega Plan	89
secticn24	Health and safety	43
section 3	Hiring Practice	8
Section20	Hours ofWoric and Overtime Pay	26
	(A) Except Highway Driver Eraplo don Highway Transport Nark	26
	(B) Hlgbwsy Driven Employed od Highway Transport Vtxk	30
Section 23	Jury Duty	44
Section 10	Lay-off and Recall	12
Seed on 29	Letters <f Intent	47
Section 4	Management Functions	7
SectionlS	No Strikes or Lockouts	22
Sections	Postings - Seniority Lists	11
Section 1	Preamble	6
Section 14	Promotion! to Superviaory Positions	17
Section 13	Promotions, Transfer*, Vaesndes Far Bargaining Unit Jobs	16
	Prov in cud Hospital an fed real Elan	11
section 12	Rates forTtnuferred 1 ployeei	IS
	Retirement Plan	54
section 2	Scope of Bargaining U.	6
Section 31	Separation Pay	49
Section 24	Sick Leave	4)
	Side Leave	54
Section 16	Sickness and Disability	19
Section 21	Statutory Holidays	36
SactiaiSO	T echnologicalChanga	47
Section 9	Termination ofSenlorll	11
Section23	ML Allowance	43
Section!]	Transfer* of Seniority	14
Sactacn6	Ihior Activities	9
Section 25	Union Leave of Absent	45
sectionS	Urim Security	7
Sacbkn22	Vacation	39
section 19	Wage Rates indGasiil ttfona	23
Section 2 4	Welfare Plan	44
COLLECTIVE LABOUR AGREEMENT
AGREEMENTentered into this COLLECTIVE LABOUR AGREEMENT
BETWEEN;
BREWERY,GENERAL AND PROFESSIONAL WORKERS', COLLECTIVE LABOUR AGREEMENT
The Etety of the First Part
and
LABATT'S ONTARIO BREWERIES, DIVISION OF LAB ATT BREWING COMPANY LIMITED (METRO TORONTO BREWERY), TORONTO, ONTARIO, hereinafter called the "Company".
The Party of the second Part
WITNESSETH:
In consideration of the mutualterma and covenants hereinafter contained, it Is hereby agreed by and between the paxtica hereto** follows:
J
Sectio?
fReamb
ONI LB
1.01	WHEREAS, the patties hereto desite to cooperate in establishing and maintaining proper and suitable conditions in the Company which will tend to secure uniform and equitable terms of employment and conditions of labour satisfactory to the Company and the Union, and to provide methods of fair and peaceful adjustments of all disputes that may arise between the parties hereto or between those represented by them and who are affected by this Agreement, and in order to ensure, so far as possible, uninterrupted operations and general stabilization of the Company's business, to ensure a proper and ethical conduct of the business, and to ensure a proper and ethical conduct of the business and relations between the Company and the employees.
SCOPE OFT
2.01	The Union shall be the excli employees in the bargaining un Company, other than foremen, j engineers and all office staff an
2.02	New classifications may be mutually agreed upon between
2.03	Supervisory personnel, not r emergency situations or train, o
2.04	In this agreement the masca the context indicates otherwise.
3ION2
ARGAINING UNIT
solledive bargaining agent of all ich consists of those employees of the is above the rank of foreman, stationary rfs employed at its plant in Toronto.
to dlls group from time to time when rties hereto.
as of the bargaining unit, may work in onstrate.
•onoun shall include the feminine unless
SECTION 3
UNION SECURITY
3.01	Employees of (he bargaining unit asset out in section 2 who have attained seniority, shall become and ranainmerab** in good standingof the Union for (he durationof this Agreement as a condWori of employment, The Union agrees thatit will not refuse membership (Oftny employee of the Company withoutjust cause.
3.02	Temporary employees shal be rsquirsdto obtain a permit card from the Union at the theof commencement of employment,
SECTION 4
MANAGEMENTFUNCTIONS
4.01	The ITtim acknowledges that it is the exclusive function of the Company to:
a Mdrtain. order, discipline and effld ency.
b, Hire, discharge, transfer, promote, demote or discipline employees provided that the claim that a seniority or probationaryemployeehas been cfscbayped, transferred, demoted or disciplined without just cause may be dealt wfii as hereinafter provided,
4.02	11 is irdezstood that in exercising these functions the Company must conform to all other clauses of this Agreement
S ECTTON 5 HJF G PRACTICE
5.01	In the matter of employme the Company will give preference to
unemployed members of the E P.W.U, in good standing competent to perform the work, A listof 8U	members will be kept by the Secretary ofthe
Union and furnished to Compi upon application,
5.02 The Company may employ	flporajy employees.to fill seasonal requirements. The Union shal rue to such men, on payment of the required fee, a Union Permit card,
5.03	TheCompany willcontimiei i agent for the Unlira the present voluntary revocable dues dadrcticn agrees eat and all Union monthly dues and assessments shall be deducted fr im the first pay in each month for and in behalf of all employees. Suchm >nles shall be paid to the Sccretary-TVeasurer of the Union not later than the It th day of each month accompanied with a list of names of employees far and l behalf of whom such decbcticnshave made. Monthly statements* ho wing the name 3 of all additionsand deletionsof such employees shall also be forward d to theSeereiary*Treasurerof the Union. In the event that any suchdeductta s are not made forrewoni of sickness, vacations, leave of absence, etc,, Ihey shall be made from the first pay of the next followingmonth in which s ages are owing to employees.
5.04	TheUnion will triform the A< hunting Department of any Union arrangements in force regarding exception of payment ofUnion dues.
5.05	In the event that the Compan 1 engage* new employees not on unemployed list, these new employeeswill bt required to sign a dues authorization card at foe time of hiring.
SECTIO ! 6
UNION AC1TV TIES
6.01	No employee ihall be riltcriinhiatffd agt Inst or discharged for his activity at a Union member or for doing Committee c-ether woric for the Union, provided, however, that permission from tl e Company la obtained if such activities occur during the working hours. It la agreed that such permission, If requested, will rxrt be unreasonably wlthhi d.
6.02	The Plant Chairman shall be given reas noble time off from his regular job to cany out his Union duties within the pb it, providing, however, that he receives pemrisalon from his Supervisor. ; uch permission will hot be
unreasonably withhold.
6.03	Departmental Stewards shall be given reasonable time off their regular jobs to cany out their Union dutiet within their Departments providing, however, that they receive permission from their Supervisor. Such permission will not be unreasonably withheld. On the absence of the Steward, the same privilege shall apply to the Alternate Steward.
9
SECTION 7
ESTABU5 IENTOF SENIORITY
74)1 At the tinto of their being hire lew omployeca shall be cluiified u either
Regular On Grid (ROG) Employ	or Temporary Employee* and tho Union ilutll be
notified of tuch.
7.02	Atl reference* to Probationary jployew ii this Agreement refer to Regular on Grid Employee* whom term* an mditioniofaiploymentan governed by the Appendix to thii Agreement
7,03 Temporary Employee* wQl be period*, vacation and lick relief, emergency iltuadoni. Tempcrtr) thirty-two (132) day* worked wit semoriQr. A year I* defined be* the date on which (bo temporary i Temporary eipployeea shell hive provisions under ti» Collective /
fined M those employee* hired for lewontl peak I abort term temporary requirement!, or nployee* may be employed for one hundred . a ported of one (1) year before they achieve particular cam u twelve (12) month* following jloyeo flirt commence* work with the Company, rights, benefit* or aoces* to grievanoe/aibitration tensest except where specifically Mated.
A 'Temporary Employee" may 1 discretion of the Company. I°th terminated for dscipBnaiy realm the Company1* decMaa thill bei dlicriraln««ycrinbadftdih. T cause complies with Section* 43. Art.
eleued for uniuiubiUty in tho sole rent that a Temporary Employee" is the itandard of ctose for review of itiser the decbkn wu arbitrary, saxtiet agree (hat till* standard of Jon
1)	and (2) of the Labour Relations
7.04	The Company agrees to recop > the seniority right* of all employee* who are member* of the Union. Seniority 11 be tho determining factor in lay-off a* provided in Section 10 choice of inal vacation period.
7.05 Each employee will have icnio employed, Except in the cue* oi established, Probationary Eraploj six (126) calendar days prior tod sendee, provided that such date v
'(tatuflng in the Depaitment which bet* sployee* whose seniority right! have been seniority will be dated one hundred and twenty* hilt day on which he complete* hi* probationary not be prior to his Malting date.
7.06	An employee does not have se rity rights until be become* permanent and his seniority date la esttUisbod. Sen Ity date* win remain unchanged provided that an employee may, within one tnontti	fint posting of his seniority date, submit
evidence to tho Company and the tion to have such dato changed.
SECTIONS
POSTINGS -SENIORITY LISTS
8.01	The Company agree* to compile and post departmental seniority lisu of til Union employees which shall be amended and corrected twice yearly. The Departments referred to above shall mean:
9.01	seniority will cease for any of the following muons:
(a)	Where a permanent employee voln arily resigns. All such resignations shall be in writing and d ned by the employee concerned.
00 when «n employee is discharged fi causa
(c)	Where an employee obtains leave c abaence far rear cm other than those given when the request ws made, or foe accepting unauthorized employment while on li ive of absence. Unauthorized employment Is employment not appn red by the Company and the Unioa
(d)	Failure to notify the Company (acc pting a call back to work after a lay-off) within seventy-two (7 I hours (excluding Saturday and Sunday) of recall notification by sgistered mail at the last address on Ole with the Company, an failure to report to work within seven (7) days of the acceptor »of recall.
(e)	when ancmploycehashis name withdrawn from Union membership. Ihthe event this should occur, the Union will give the Carpany in writing the reason for such action.
(f)	In case of lay-off for a period Of twelve (12) months for employees with less than five (5) years seniority and in case of layoff for a period of twent^four(24) months for employees with five
<5) or mote years seniority.
Brewing Central Stores Garage Maintenance
Packaging
Staging
Transportation
SECTION 9
TERMINATION OP SENIORITY
it
SEC! ON 10 LAY-OFF/! TO RECALL
10.01	The following Union Bxectii /a Officers: President, Vice-President, Recording Secretary-Treasurer (I employees of the Company) and the
B.GI*.W.U.Lab&tt Represented' >, shall hold top plant and departmental seniority during their terms of of ce for the purpose of lay-off only.
10.02	Union Stewards shell hold to departmental seniority during their terms of office for the puiposeof lay-off» dy. In the event that more dun one employee holds lop seniority, (ht i the order of their seniority for the purpose of lay-off only will be interprets u being the order in which they are naeniSosied above.
10.03	Ihthecase of lay-off,temper ty employees shallbe laid off firstplantwide, with the exception of skilli I tradesmen whose services are mutually deemed to be essential for the efl dent operation of the Company. Thereafter, lay-offs for an anticipated period if one month or more Shall occur la reverse order of departmental seniority i> ofar as employees with lea* than five (5) yean seniority are concerned. If ! becomes necessary to lay-off employees with five (5) or more years of set ority, then these men will be allowed to replace more Junior employees ii other departments provided that the employee exercising itch rights ill do so for the period of lay-off only and their seniority in their original C partment will not be affected.
10.04	Permanent employees recall© to work in another department will not transfer their seniority rights to tl i department to which they are recalled.
12
10.05	Except in the case of extreme emergency, the Company will give permanent employees, who are to be laid ff, notice on bulletin boards three (3) woddng days prior to lay-off. If thee tployeeia on leave of absence, or absent through sickness, or on Workers' C unpensation at the time of lay-off, he shall be subject to the lay-off proviaioi i the same aiifhe were on active status.
10.06	Any employee who ia laid off or cont me* to be laid off In violation of seniority mutt present a claim, in writing, o the Human Resources Department within three (3) working day: from the date of notice of such employee's lay-off, otherwise, it shall be i xroed that compensation for time loit arising out of any wrongful lay-off is salved. The Company will promptly determine the merits of written lalms and if it is found that the layoff was unjust, the affected employee wH receive his straight time lost during suchl^cff.
10.07	When rehlring takes place in any Dep rtment, the reverse of Section 10.03 will be followed: {he. laid off permanent naployees will be recalled in the order of their seniority within that Depart lent). In the event that additional men an required by feat Department, fee: permanent laid off employed holding seniority in another Departments ill be recalled in fee order of their seniority.
10.08	Notification ofrecall shall be made b registered mail to the last address which the employee shall have recorded < 1th fee Company, and fee B.G.P.W.U Labatt Representative shall b notified thereof. It shall be the responsibility of the employee to keep thi Company and the Union notified of his mailing address so that he may be cot acted within seventy-two (72) houra aa hereinbefore provided.
13
SEC [ON 11
TRANSFER! >7 SENIORITY
11.01	An employee who hat been on promoted to a position not covered bargaining unit ihtll be given sesk the Company provided he maintair have no lenioiity rights for better, has completed one hundred and thi Department
11.02	An employeetraniforred to an avoid a lay-off shall transfer Hi tt completed one hundred andthlrt) Department
leniority list in any department and i» r this Agreement and later returned to the ty equivalent to his total service with tis Union withdrawal card, bat bo shall is or vacation entitlement until after ha -two (132) working days in the
: department fixreasoni other than to fty to such departmentafter he has > (132) workingdaysln his new
SECTION U
RATES FOR TRANSFERRED EMPLOYEES
12.01	Employees win are transfcrraipurruant to the lay-off provisions dall immediately take the rste fix the job to winch they are assigned.
12.02	Employees who am temporarily transferred toa vacant job £r the convenien ce of the Company dell continue to receive their usual rate.
1103	If any employee li transferred for the efficiency of the Department, he will be paid al the lower rate unleu the employee baa had at least fifteen (1S) yean service with at least two (2) years continuous employment at the higher rate and in such a case the employee will retain hla rate until such time as the job rate exceeds the rate being paid, ‘thereafter, the employee will be paid the contract rate for the job. If an employee is transferred for his own good or because of undisputed disability) he will he paid at the job rate for the job to which he istnnsfenedL
1104	Employees trensfinred or assigsdte warily to ajob paying a higher rate of pay willbe paid at the higher ratefor all houra worked In die higherrated job. Thissoctiondoes notincludeemployees while on work stabilization re- a defined training program.
1103 danse "A”: The Company shall supply adequate manpower in all operations in all department* at all timer so that an employee will not be required to perform mote than a fair day's woric
Clause "B": Clause "A" »h*H not be consumed to mean that the manning of all operations is at present exactly adequate or that all employees are presently assigned exactly a fair day's work and accordingly changes in an employee's work load may be made so long as the resulting situation Is not a violation of
Clause"A".
15
SBC ION 13
PROMOTIONS, TRAN iFERS AND VACANCIES FOR BARGAIi fING UNIT JOBS
13.01	When assigning men to daytime work, preference shall be given to the most senior employee. A day-time )b refers to a Job where there is do shift work.
13.02	The Company agrees to post «U simancnt job vacancies paying a rate higher than the base hourly rate wi In the bargaining unit for seven (7) days when they occur and all applicatfo must be made within this time.
13.03	On posted jobs, promotions an ransfen shall be based cn seniority provided that the applicants are sul liently qualified andconsideringthe efficient operation of the Compenj The Company will arrange appropriate training whenever practicable.
13.04	The Company and the Union a sc that city Brewers' Retail suns shall be declared vacant and posted each D ember and tint the successful applicant for the job will not be eligible for i 5ther job for one calendar year.
13.05	There shall be no bidding of hi| tvay trips.
14
14
PROMOTtONSTO SUPER VIS RYPOSmONS
14.01	An employee accepting a promotion to a supervisory job shall be allowed three 0) monthsilwhich toprovohlmse capablecf fitlinglhe position concerned. If the employee doss not qua y within such time, he shall revert to hi* former position without loss of sen rity, provided that if before the expiry of three (3) months, it appear* that uch employee is incapableof qualilyingftr suchposition within three )months,he may be required to revert to his former pasitim before such I ne without prejudiceand without loss of seniority.
14.02	Employees accepting positions outsid the bargaining Unit may apply far thicn withdtaal cards within three (3) i oaths of their appointment Payment of the required thim dues vill rotect their membership in the Unm for one year.
14.03	When an employee is promoted to a supervisory position, he shall retain all rights and privileges to his former position for a period of twelve (12) raontha from the data in which he was promoted, provided that he maintains his Union membership in good standing ourlng such period.
17
SECTION 15
DISCIPLINARY ACTION
15.01	Whenever a Seniority or Probi anary employee 1* subject to disciplinary action vfaudh will become a part o is employment records, he shaB be given a fair and jost hearing and may ha a Deparmunt Steward in attendance.
15.02	Records of such disciplinary a concerned, to the Department Stev
on will be given to the employee rd and to the local Union Secretary.
15.03	Disciplinary action mast be tak discovery of the ofTcnseualeis ihl Company and the Union. The first considered to be the day of the dis the regularly scheduled drift on th been granted.
i within three (3) watting days of the ime is extended by agreement between die ay for the purposes of the count shall be very, ft eperiod will expire at the end of bird day unless the miial extension has
15.04	77teappropriate disciplinary a on tobe taken will be determined by (he gravity of the offence and the time lapsed since the last offence.
15.05	In the imposition of discipline tor disciplinary written warnings tr reprimands will not be referred to »ter twelve (12) months; prior suspensions wi II not bereferred to after thirty (30) months.
SECTION «S
SICKNESS AND D1 ABILITY
16.01	Sickness or disability resulting from si tocideot shall not in Itself be cause for dismissal. Upon recovery, an employe who has been sick or disabled shall return to his former position provider ie is capable of performing these duties. If unable to perform his regular du ss, the Company will endeavour to assign him to work which be li able to per an if such work am be provided.
This clause shall also apply in the event ol driver who is required to have a Class A license and loses Us license on ac nmt of failing to meet Government standards for a Class A licea . This will not apply in the event of the loss of a driver's license for any otto reason.
16.02	If, because of ilhess, a permanent emi >yee Is not able to complete his shift after having worked at least two (2)1 urs.be shall be sent home and •hall be paid foe the balance of hit shift. I the case of an accident causing injury to a permanent employee to severe! that the employee is unable to continue work, be shall be paid for the bal ice of the shift. No employee will leave work before first reporting to hit Fa man and the Medical Department whenever an attendant Is on duty. The Co pany may require proof of illness by a doctor's certificate to be obtained at C mpan/s expense, If any, by the employee whenever requested.
SE mON17
GRIEVAN a PROCEDURE
17.01	rheCompany acknowledge* wrightofthe Union toselect Shop Steenzfeto assist Seniority or Pn bationary employee* in presenting complaints or grievance* to the C rnpany, There dallbe four Stewards in Packaging, (hive Stonxrfe in Sta{ ng, two Stassfe in each <£ B rewing, Maintenance and Transportation, nd one Stood in tteGaragoplusan Alternate stood in the Garage, fhe Alternate steward shall act in the absencecf the regular Steward wl lhrespect to any grievance arisingin his/her Department.
17.02	Theprocedure for handling co. tplalnis or gnevancesshall be as follows: A Seniority or Probationary employ e whohas acomplaintorquestionwill ordinarily discuss the nutter with tit Supervisor, but if thisdow net satisfy him or if for any reason his comp! M is of such a natura he prefers Id refer to his Steward first, he may do so.
STEP1
If a complaint cr grievance is re wred by an employeetohis Steward and the Steward considers there maj be a reasonable basis farthe complaint or grievance, he shall present the* n attar to the Supervisorof the employee involved within seven (7) world ig days firm the time sinoethe grievance arose erbecameapparentand at >0 endeavour to arrange a tadefactory settlement
A grievance presented after the i forementioned time limit shall not be arbitrable. If such settlementca not be arranged, the Stoarri shall then state the grievance in writing in luadmpUcste and give the Department Hard five (^working days to provide a written arse:. ffthis answerisnot aatlafactory, thenext stqp ofU» irocedure may be invoked
STEP 2
Uhs grievance shall be referred 11 the Regional HiranResources Director, Brewery Manageror those dealt rated to actonbdialf of either individual, who shallconfer with the appro] riate Steward representation, the President of the B.OJVW.U. or Us design: it, (he Plant Chairman and (be Executive Board maiber of the Local Uni n. If the matter is settled, the settlement shallbe stated in writing and rig edby the Regional Rican Resources Director and the Plant Chalnrur or his designate. If it is not settled within two Oworidng days, StepNa may be invoked. The parties agree that the stages cm! and two will be comj eted within cna month of foe lagging cf the original grievance.
STEP 3
The grievance may be referred to arbio tion upon the written request of dther the Company or the Plant Chain m or hii designate within ono hundred and twenty (120) calendar da) the date of the Third Step disposition. The issue to be arbitrated lould be the wittei statementof the grievance and the answers of die variot management ofilcialswho previonily dealt with die matter.
17.03	When a written request for aibitratkH parties thall meet within three (3) workii reasonable effort to select an impartial u selection, foe Minister of Labour for Oni such impartial arbitrator. The decision o binding on the pstdea hereto. The reasoi including the fees and expenses, stenogn than be equally shared by both parties to
has been submitted by one party, the days and they shall make every Itrator and if they fail to make such io shall be requested to appoint the arbitrator shall be final and ible coata of auch arbitrator, hie services, etc. of the arbitrator, his Agreement
17.04	In grievances involvmgdlscharge ol Seniority crProbationary
employee, the grievances shall be put in thing by the Steward and lodged at Step 2 Milan seven (7) calendar days aft ' theemployeeceasea towork for the COipany.
21
SECT!
NOSTRIKESO
15.01	In view of the orderly procedwn and grievances, it is agreed that tin endorsed or condoned by either pa stoppage of work, the tlrim agree THjiittrito protect and maintainO protect products from damage and services such as water, power, he* services, shal be permitted to per*
18.02	It is also agreed that if any dJnp Agreement concerning the general which affects its orderly edministn procedure and arbitrab'onbeginnln
18.03	Should any matter relating to t
by it, arise during its	it shall b
hereto.
L8
3CKOUTS
urged for the settlementof complaints 'ill be no strikes or lockouts instigated,
> this Agreement. In the event of any c such IWoi members as may be tny property in operating condition, to aintain, operate and protect esaantial sanitation, fire protection, watchmen such work.
irises betweenthapartist to this rpretation cr application ef this contract , eitherpaity may invoke the grievance h a conference at Step 2.
agreement, but not specifically covered ject to negotiations between th e parties
SECTION 19
WAGE RATES AND CLASSIFICATIONS
19.01	The folio wing mmimin scale of wai employee* e£fecti\efrom the date indict
n permanent
	1994
Brewing Department	22.25
Tractor Trader Operator	2250
Truck Driver (Other)	2250
Staging Machine Operator	2255
Maintenance General	2259
Packaging Machine Operator	2255
Packaging (Other)	91.OT
Painter	24.18
Bar Tender	2255
StoTD Kttpcr	2255
Plumber	2653
Oiler	2350
Mechanic (Auto)	26.03
Maintenance Mechanio	26.03
Electrician	26.03
Maintenance ,<B"	2459
Maintenance "C"	23.05
Probationary	13.14
19.02	The following basic scale of wages M aia td wuiporary employees effectivefran die date Indicated:
Temporary (General) Temporary (Trades) Temporary (Driven)
11.39	1159
20.56	20.56
14.08	14.08
23
19.03	Chargehands dull receive30 c nt* ($.30) per hour more than their regular rate. Achsigebacdisonewbos die working with a crew cf ere or more men is specifically charged with ^responsibility fcrthe quantity and quafify of work performed by mi icrew.
19.04	An employee who docs not btc mea permanentemployeo under the conditions of Sactiatf after con letion of onebuadred and thirty-two(132) working days shall, nevertheless hen be eligible for statutory hril irty pay on the same basisas provided f« permanent employees.
19.05	All employees shall qualify fbt hlft prensumai the rate of $0.60 cents per hour for afternoon shifts and $l.t ) per hour for midnight shift The afternoon dift premium wB bo ] rid for all work performed on shifts commencing on or between thet urs of 9:01 a.m, and 4:59 p.m. axlthe night shift premium far all work erfonned on shifts commencingon between ft* hours of 5:00p.m. a 15:59 a.m. This shift premium shall not be deemed part of the regular rati of pay in calculationof overtime, statutory
.	holiday cr vacation pay.
19.06	The status of tradesmen'll'1 an "C1 will be reviewed by (fteCbnipany annually. Ihose qualified forpn pessioo to higher status will be promoted. Those not deemed qi«1i fieri will b given reasons fo rthe decision and shall have recourse to the grievance pi ccdurt if not satisfied.
19.07	Personi hired tofillpaaitdaiso Maintenance Mechanic, Electrician, Ptumbersnd Auto Mechanic afte the signing of this Agreement will move to their appropriate job rates in* ordance with Article 19.01 heranatthe end of theirprobationary period. Ihose not deemed qualified will be given reasons for die decision and shall laverecourse to the grievanceprocedure if not nidified.
24
CLASSIFICATION DURING OVERHAUL
19.08	During m erhaul periods certain employees may be assigned to work with Maintenance Mechanics to perform jobs requiring mechanical sldlh. These employec8 will be paid the Maintenance Mechanic "C* rate for such work.
19.09	Other empIcyecSmay be assigned to work with Maintenance Mechanicsor Painters to do routine general maintenance or painting work. The&c employees will be paid the Mtiiluaw general rate.
19.10	Employees who are assigned to other work stabilization jobs outside the Maintenance Department in order toavoid lay-off will be paid their regular
rates.
is
SECTIONS
HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME PAY
A. EXCEPT HIGHWAY DRIVERS EMPLOYEDON HIGHWAY TRANSPORTWORK'
20.01	Eighthours(seven and one-quarter hours work, plus rest periods or lunch time) dull ccnstitute a day's work and five(S) eight (8) hour days shall ccnstitutea work week. A11 work in excess of eight (8) hours in any one day, or in excess of forty (40) hours in any om weak shall be paid for at the rate of time and one-half, Any work in excess of eleven (11) horns shall be paid for at the rate of double time. The normal work weak will be reduced by eight (8) hours for any week containinga stetiiny holiday. In the event that an employeeworks his statutory hoi iday, he wilt receive the premium pay for that day but w i 11 work the remaining thirty-two (32) hours at str&l ght time rate.
20.02	Saturday will be a premium day with pay atthenteoftimeanda&Mf for all hours worked. 11 i s understood that employees whose regular ehl fta commence on before midnight will receive time and one-half for all work performed after midnight Friday.
20.03	Employeesrequired to work on a Sunday or Statutory Holiday shall be paid at the rate of doublet h e for all hours worked, Any work performed on a Sunday or Sztidrzy Holiday after an employee has worked forty (40) hours in that week will be paid for at double time andcne-half. In a week in which one or mere Stsbiny Holidays occur, the work week will be reduced by eight (8) hours per Statutory Holiday for the purpose of calculating overtime far Sunday.
20.04	Any work performed after eight (8) hours on my one Sunday wi bo paid for at the isle of double time and cnerftalf and work perforated after eight (8) hours on rry one Sbctutny Holiday toll be paid for at the tabs of triple time and one-half.
26
CALLBACK
20.05	When an employee is called back to work after he has completed his shift, for a specificjcb, and before, the one(1) hour period preceding his next regular drift, he will be paid for the tiiie worked at the appropriateovertime rate subject to a minimum payment of four (4) hours ± such overtimerate for each can back.
If called In within the one (1) hour period prtcidtr.g the starting time cfhia regular shift, be wi be paid for such extra work at the ajprqriateovertime rate with no mirarnumpayment guaranteed.
Appropriate overtime rates mean tire andone-half on Monday to Saturday, inclusive,double time on Sundaysand Statutory Holidays, and triple ime forhcurs worked on a Statutory Holiday in excess of eight (6) hours.
Any premium hours paid for underthls clause will not be used for calculating cvertirteadjustment in relation to daily or weekly hours worked.
20.05	The schedule <£ the hours tobeworicedeach day shall be posted at least cne(1) week in advanceofthe first of such scheduled days, and the scheduling shall provide for at least £iftnsi(15) hours elapsedtime between the close cf each son's driftand the start of his next shift, unless otherwise mutually agreed. When anemployeeis scheduled to change from one group of consecutive shifts to another, the said elapsed tins may ha neducedto Seven (7) ham.
Without changingposted schedules, an individualemployeemay take over the work alignment or today c£fof sene other employee upon request, but uileeahe Is given at least four (4) yoking hours notice In advance of such changed assignment, he shall be entitled to be paid at theappropriate overtimerate for any work performed by him during what would have been his regular time eff according to his regular posted work assignment.
Continuous work beyond twelve (12) hours till be at the discretion of the DepattmentHead.
20.07	If any employeereports for work on his scheduled shift withouthaving been infenred previously not to report, unless his failure to receivenotice not to report is due to absence without just cause from his last shift, and less than four (4) hours work is avaitabte forhim, he shall be given Soar (4) hours pay nobdthstanJLng.
27
20.08	Employees who work overtime over and above theirregulardaily or weekly hours shall not be retpred to take time off to offset such overtime. Wh e n an emp!oye8 is called in to work overtime and has not had eight (8) hours unbroken free time since the completion of his last regular working period, such employee shall not be required to continue working into the next regular day except in case of extreme emergency, Further, when an employee is required to work more than twelve (12) hours in any one day, he will be excused from work the succeeding day, if he s> desires, except in the case of extreme emergency, or where the work is occasionadby such an emergency. An emergency shall be defined as anything that interferes with production.
»
20.09	If overtime is required) notice shall be given two (2) hours before the end of the employee's shift, except for work required to complete production nms and in ttecasecf emergency repair work required for the continuance of production. When such notice cannot be given, overtimeahall be on a voluntary basis. As far as possible,overtime work will be equally distributed on an annual basis among the permanent employees inthe
Department concerned.
20.10	If an employe is scheduled to work at least two (2) hours in additLcnto his regular difthe shall be allowed an additional fifteea (15) minute rest period at the beginning <£ the overtime period and every two (2) hours of overtime verted thereafter.
20.11	Employersvvho are required to work as much as ttmaa(3) hours overtime continuous with theirregular drift shall be granted a hebL allowance cf at least three do Han ($3.00).
20.12	(a) The Company will endeavourto schedule as many employees as practicable on a Monday toPriday work week.
(b) Schedules cfwork in the Brewing and Maintenance Departments must necessarily fluctuate with production requirement,
20.13	Overtime hours will be posted on a departmental basis weekly and will include tta employee's name and hours of overt Line worked or refused.
20.14	In no case will overtime cr premium oanpensaticnbe duplicated or pyramided,
20.15	Beforeeflectingany general change in departmentalshifl schedule, the Company will endeavourto advise the tJhicn in advance of such change.
29
B, Highway Drivers Employed on Highway TransportWork
20.16	Rates for Drivers employed on Delivery Work
.01 This Section has no application toemployees performing hostllng <r shuttling operations or other employees employed on yard or non-delivery work
.02 Drivers will be compensated by a combination of Sat Rate, Hourly Rate, KilometerRatB and or Pallet Handled Ifete.
.	.03 Unless indicated otherwise, the hourly rate shall mean the rate for Tractor
Trailer Operator (Toronto) and Truck Driver Highway (London).
Hat Rate:
A)	Pie and Post Trip Fuacdons
Drivers will be entitled to one pre trip and one post trip payment on a daily basis for each of theseperieds. The payment shallbc$11.02 for the pro tip and 65,51 for the post trip functions.
Pn and post trip activities include, if necessary, the initial trailer hookup of the day and the final tedlardrop of the day's work, a circle check, truck fusling and preparing bills.
B)	Breaks
A driver will be entitled to two (2) fiftear(15) minute breaks per work day at the rate of $5.31 pee break provided thathe has voted a minimum of six (6) hours ttat workday. A driver who works less duo six (6) hours isentittedto one (1) fifteen (15) minute break for which be ahall bo paid $5.51.
C)	Muldpool Deliveries
A muldpool delivery is defined as a trailer load of product which requires the driver to pickup and/ordeliver atone or job geographic locations. Compensations the first call on a multipool ddivery/pickup is incorporated in the applicable kilometer bIb. Each additional call after the first call will be compensated at the rate of $5.51 per call.
30
D)	Trailer Drops and Hookups
Compensation for trai ler drops and hookups (other than the first and last fin±iais) wfll be at the rale of $5. SI for each combined drop and hookup completed,
Hourly fete:
A)	60 Kilometer Radius from Home Terminal
TTw company will pay the applicablehourly rate for ail hours worked by drivers within a 60 kilometer radius of the driver's home terminal. Time to be taken from the Tachometer raalNo other payments shall be made within this •tea. The Company shal establish standards in cooperation with the Union for runt withinthe 60 kilometer radius.
B)	PI sat Holidays
A driver who qualifies for plant holiday pay will be compensated for eight (8) hours for each such holiday at the hourly rata.
C) Downtime Outside the	(60) Kilometer Radius:
A driver will be compensated for legitimate downtime (defined below) at the hourly rate of $22.05 per hour. A driver is expected to mate every effirt to call the Dispatcher within the first hourof downtime incurred. Downtime is defined as the direct result <£:
a)	Wntirijtimafora load ata plant (includinga tanker)ora distribution centre ora tractrr.
b)	A Brewer’s retail store dock or equipmentbreakdewn, other delivery truck occupying delivery docks and starts not open.
c)	bfehsimLbreakdown of Company tractctitrailer equipment
d)	Official road closure or non official mad closure which results in mom than a 75 minute delay with the understanding that delay timeon a trip is not cumulative.
e)	Accidents involving theCompany vehicle operated by fedriver.
No nrnpanawHrn shall be pay able for the first thirty (30) minutes of each downtime occurrence on item (b) above.
31
If a driver is obliged to lay over for none than one (1) fill day away from a Company Terminal, he will be credited with eight (8) hours work and compensated at the hourly rate for each full day held over.D) Other Absences
Base daily earning* for the purpose of calculatingLong TEa-m Disability and Weekly Indarrity payments shall be deemed to be the hourly rate fordrtvers times elght-(8) hours, Sick days, Bereavement Leave, Jury and Crown Witness pay, Union Educational Leave, L.C.B.O. Edict Digs and vacation pay, end bonus shallbe calculated and paid based on the hourly rate time eight (8) per day.
Kilometer Rate:
A driver will be compensated at the rats of $0,28 per kilometer driven (effective January 1,1995, $0.29Jforall Ontariodeliveries and pickups for which hourly rates are not applicable. A driver wi II not be paid hourly rate and the kilometer rate fir the same distance driven. The Company and the Union will agree to Idlome ter standards faros many trips as possible and will publish the standards, In the event that there is change in legislationwhereby the maximumtraveling speedon Hwy, 401 is reduced, the Company wil adjust the kilometer rate accordingly.
For those deliveriesand pickups that do not fit into the standards, the kilometer? driven wll be taken firm the tachograph and/or the tractor hub odmetHT.
Pallet delivery and Pick up Rate
Payment for Pallet Delivery and/or Pick Up will be made as described below where the driver stays with the trailer at a call and assists the customerto the extentthathe is allowed to do so in the delivery and/or pick up of fill pallet lifts. A driver will be compensated far full pallet Ufl deliveries of product or pickup of full pallet lifts of empty containers cr returned product £the rats c£ $.85 per full pallet lift,
32
General:
1)	When a <irtver'< dispatch requires him to perform both a hourly rata dellvery/plckup and a kilometer rate dellvery/plckup on the same trip, he shall be paid the kilometer zata for all kilometer* driven plus the appropriate multipool delivery payment foreach adfchticralcall. In addition, if there are overpayment* appropriateto the dellverfes/pickups, he Vail be paid forthese
2)	In thaevent that the Company decides to domiciledrivers in Ontario location* other than Ttaxitoor London, the thicn agree* that it will cooperate with the Company ineetabliritinjzonemw for the new location in question.
All employee* daridledattach locations, (which are considered as distributioncenini) will be Bargaining Unit employee*. They shallbe covered by the terms of the CollectiveAgreement, at the closest plant loaatLcn; however, in the event that such a distribution centrecloses, employeeshlred by the Company after November 14,1993, shall not have any limits to relocate to the plant. In the casethata current sirniy driver relocate* from London or Toronto to one of these distribution centres, and subsequently, it closes, then he viU.be able to exercise his saiiority rights to relocate back to the plant
The parties agree that this provision does not expand the geographicseope of the Ham's mcnjiitimand jurisdiction as defined in the Collective Agreement.
3)	If work U available, all drivers will be offered sufficientwork each week
to aUcw them to gross the equivalent of forty (40) hours pay at the straight time hourly rate, For each day of absence framvork by the driver, for any reason, eight (8) hours will be deducted firm the above forty (40)hours.
4)	9atim.ty drivers who Indicate theirpreferenceto the Company for extra woik wihave preference over temporal employees, (who have completed the equivalent of forty (40) hours that week) and to tiB extent that b y are available far work.
Employees who want towork ncns than the equivalent of forty (40) hours will be accommodated having regard to the eaonanic consequence* to tho Company, it being understood that the Company reserve* toe right to contract out loads.
5)	Drivers who feel that they ere getting lest additional work than other driven, can bring (his Id the attention of Dispatch management for review and where appropriate redress in the fora of additional work opportunities will be made
0 The Company will continue to allow drivers who have runs of seven hours or more, 10 hours frsetime when at home and 8 hours free time when away finnhome, before reporting fora further run.
Premium Compensation For Delivery Drivers
Deliveries fftaf commence within the hours of 12:01 a.m. Saturday to7:59 p.ra. Sunday, vaH be corpensatedd: the premium rata of 150% of the Kilometer tabs or Hourly F&to.
Kilometers driven or hours worked that commence on a Stahiny Holiday between the hours of 12:01 am. to 11:59 p.m. will be compensated at the premium izteof 150% of the Kilometer Bate or Hourly fete.
Satiarity drivers (whohave availablehours of work left in the week) will have preferenceover tepray driven fix deliveries vhkh are compensated at the premium rats.
34
Temporary Drivers:
The followingare (be applicable rates for Temporary Drivers:
Hourly	$14.08
Kilometer Rate	$ 0,17 per kilometer
Pallet delivery and Pick up rate$ 0.34 per full pallet lift
Pre and post trip	$3,52
Trailer Drops and Hookups	$ 3.52
Multipool Delivery	$ 3,52
Breaks	$ 3.52
The company uH. givepreference by seniority, to drivers who wish to work primarily within the 60 kilometer radius o f their home terminal. However, the Canpanyretains the right to dispatchdriversina manner consistent with the best economic inlerestsof the business.
35
SECTICN21
STATUTORYHOLIDAYS
21.01 The Company uH observe the following plant holidays:
New Tfar'sDay	Civic Holiday
Good Friday	Labour Day
Ehster Monday	Thanksgiving
Victoria Day	Christmas Day
Canada Day	Boxing Day
January 2rl	
An additional (12th) holiday will be granted if declared by the Provincial Government
For the duration of this agreement, the above Stdiiny Holidays will be observed as follows:
PLANT HOLIDAY SCHEDULE
	1994	1995
New ^fear'sDay	Sat Jan. 1	SunJan 1 (MonJan^/95)
Jan.2	SunJan.2	MonJan.2 (TueaJan. 3/95)
Good Friday	Frl.April 1	Pri«April 14
Baiter Monday	Mon. April 4	Mon. April 17
Victoria Day	Mon. May 23	Mon. May 22
Dominion Day	Hi. July 1	Sat. July 1 CPri June 30/95)
Civic Holiday	Mon.Aug.1	Mon.Aug.7
LstcurDay	Mon.Sept.5	Mon.Sept.4
Thanksgiving Day	Mon.Oct.10	Mon.Oct.9
Christmas Day	SunDec.25 (PiLDcc.23/94)	Mon.Dec.25
Boxing Day	MonJ3cc,26	Tue&Dec£6
37
21.02	Employeeson the seniority lists, other than those laid cffcrcn leave of absence and probationary employees, who have completed thirty (30) days of work for the Company sinoa tteirmost recent date of hire and who are not laid cSor on leave of absencewill receive eight (8)hours of straight time pay for each of such holidays without being required to work on such days.
21.03	When any of these Holidays are observed during an employee's annual vacation, he ihall receive ere day's regular pay for each such Holiday in addition to hie vacation payment, unless, by mutual agreement between the employee and the Company, the employee is given anctherday eff with pay in lieu of such Holiday. Such lieu day shall be scheduled by mutual agreement between the employee and the Company.
21.04	SI truck drivers will be credited with eight (8) hours pay fornon-selling days in the B.W, Company by virtue of L.C.B.O. edict applicablethroughout the entire province. Where such a holiday occurs during an employee's vacation period, he will receive an additional day's pay.
21.05	In any work week in which an L.C.B.O, holiday, which is not province wide, is declared and in which a driver has worked less than forty (40) hours, solely because of theholiday, the Company will credit the driver with suflicienthwrs, iptoa maximum cf eight (8) boon, tobring his total hours for that week to forty (40). Driversrequirtd to work on a holiday w i 11 do so at straight time.
21.06	Penalty rates for employees working shifts on the eleven (11) holidays listed above shall be deemed applicableto three (3)shifu (Le. day, afternoon and night) of the day in question. For the purpose of penalty pay on call-ins occurring on a holiday, tie holiday 4*11 be defined as commencing ± 12:01 a m. and ending at 11:59 p,m.
SECTION 22 VACATION
22.01	On May 1st in each year, vacationleavewillbeestablishedforallregular employees according to the following scale:
'(a)Regular employees who have achieved seniority as of May 1st -one week.
(b)	Ragnlar em ploy as who have onayear, but loss than three years of seniority as of May 1st-two weeks.
(c)	Regular employees who have three years, but less than eight years of seniority as of May 1 st— three weeks.
(d)	Regular employees who have eight years, but less than fifteen years c£ seniority as of May 1st •• four ws^ts.
(e)	Regular employ as who have fifteen years, but less than twenty years of ssiLaityBs of May 1st- five weeks.
(IJRegular employees who have twenty years, but less than twenty-five years of seniority as of May 1st-six weeks.
(g)	Regul»r employeeswho have twenty-five years or more of seniority as of May 1st - seven vedes.
(h)	Ecnployees shall be eligiblefor their 4th, 5th. 6th, and 7ihweek of vacation following their 8th. ] 5th. 20th and 25th anniversary of employment.
(l)As of May l stin each year, employees who have been in the employ of the Company fora period of twelve (12) ninths or more,
• but who have lostnwte than fifty (50) working days during the twelve (12) month period preceding May 1st formy reason other than Illness verified to the satlsfaction of the Company may, at the employee's qtdm, be given two weeks summer vacation wih payment arortirg to4% of his earnings during the twelve (12) month periodprecedlng May 1stor theemployeemay elect towcxk for all orpart of such sutnrmteadontimB, but shall be efltiiki to receive 4% vacation payment
39
22.02	Summervacation shall be limited to two consecutive weeks which will be scheduled in a fburtBai(14) week period commencing the second Monday in June.
22.03	Vacations shall be taken by seniority regardless of drift and work scheduled will be arranged in order that an employee will have sixteen (16) consecutivedays when he fakes his summervacation.
22.04	It is understood tht, whenever possible, the employee can take his vacation at a time otherthan spadfiedin this Agreement
22.05	Additional weeks afvacation for employees with three (3) cr more years of service shall be taken outside the summer vacation period. Such vacations will be taken by seniority by classification. The Company reserves the right to determine the number of employees who may be on vacation at any given time.
22.06	Etar each week of vacation leave an employ ee will receive forty (40) hours pay at his current hourly wage based on straighttime.
40
2107 a) Anemployeccontinuouslyabser torn work for a period in excel* of 104 weeks shall not be entitled to any \ adon entitlement thereafter until fluther entitlement is earned by lesumf mef actiwsservice.
b) hfear the conclusion o f the vacation vacationentitlmmtwho istheninrea Long Term Disability benefits and whe absentftom work ii excess of 104 wee
ar, an employee with unused t of Weekly Indemnity or u not been continuously shall:
1.	cease to receive such benefits a be placed on vacation leave until hla unused vac on entitlement Is exhausted; and,
1 resume receipt of disability bet its, if still qualified, once bli vacation credits e exhausted;
An employee whose disability benefits e Interrupted as described above, shall have his eligible benefit p ad extended by the number of weeks for which be has been placed or ication leave by the Company
pursuant to this clause.
22.08 Vacation Boone In addition to the	rmal vacation pay provided by
Section 22 .01, a vacation bonus force: n employees will be established cm May lstof each year when vacation lc ss are established.
Assuming that all service vacation lest of wage raiw then far effect, vacation b
will be paid for on the basis us will be paid at the vacation. The vacation
Employees with three (3) years or mor -f seniority as of May 1st will be entitled ton vacation bonus of 20%	their normal vacation pay..
41
VACATION PAYMENT ON TERMWATO
22.09	All tormlnatiom shall be handler
(a)	Employee* who had received thr termination shall receive a pro-rataj 14%, ai applicable,of earnings torn
(b)	Employeeswhohadnotreceh prim to termination shall receive thi pro-ma paymeat of4%, 6%, 6%, earnings firm May 1st
(c)	Tfenpxary and/or seasonal on; pay in accordance with provisions
(d)	On termination, an employee* is entitled.
! following basis:
tionseanedasofMay 1st prior to it of 4%, 6%, 8%, 10%, 12%, or 1st to date of the termination.
earned vacation as of May 1st alar vacation pay in addition to the %, or 14%, ti applicable, <£
oily to vacation dards Act
l bonus to which he
42
SECTION 23
TOOL ALLOWANCE
23.01	All newly hired Mechanic* "AH or,r^11 and Auto Mechanic* will bo required to provide their own set of ret ired tool*. Replacement of worn, broken, or loit tools, or for upgrading, ill be paid fox by toe Company subject to an annuli maximum $320 p< Mechanic. Painters and oilers shall receive a tool allowance of $1601X1 pe rear.
SECTK 'l 24 WELFAR PLAN
24.01	(a) The Company will provide a W fare Plan and a Pension Plan for iu employees, the p&rticulart of which an tet out In policies and other documents carrying auch plana, and the detaila shi be summarized In tho printed agreement booklet following the ilgna re page.
(b)	The employee’! ahare of any Uiwa loyment Insurance Premium Rebate will be retained by the Oompmy to of] st a portion, of the cost of the benefit Improvements contained in this agreet mb
SICKL-AVE
24.02	On each January lit, six (6) days (at employee's base rate) will be credited to a lick leave bank for each permanent employee. These credits will be used to offset loss of pay for working days riot covered by the insured Weekly Indemnity benefit. Any unused portion of the sick bank will be paid to the employee in cash on die last payday before Christmas. A complete explanation of the sick leave plan shall be summarized In the printed agreement booklet following theaigne&impaga.
HEALTH AND SAFETY
2403 The Company shall institute and maintain all reasonable precautions for safeguarding the health and safety of its employees. Both the Company sad the Union recognize their mutual obligations to assist in the prevention, correction and elimination of unhealthy and unsafe working conditions and practices. All employees are expected to adhere to safe working practices.
4)
SECTIOI 15 BEREAVE! ENT	
23.01 Should a death occur b the irair be granted three (3) working days Ic funeral arrangements or to attend th husband cr wife, mother, father, siol in-law, son-in-lawand danghter-in-1 granted for attending the funeral cf i law, grandparent! or grandchildren, relative may also be granted but wit!	n—lanent Employee* raH pay inordartomake :e family includes other-in-law, father-e of absence wB be' ier-in-law,si4ter-ln-(funeral of a non-
EDUCATION 1	'JCE
25,02 Upon written application by the designate, the Company agrees to gt loss cf regular pay, not to exceed Un year, tothe union Plant Chairman, < Alternate Stewards, Such education Ihrim and the Company to at tom! operations.	I.P.W.U. or hit ive of ab*ence, without ing days In any one Stewards and rranged between the ‘the Company's
JUKI	
25.03 Should an employee be caUed fo witness, the Company wi 11 supp lerw thattheemployeewi receive totals straight time pay at his regular wage been at work doing his service as a,	oenaedas a crown itnesspay toensure i to eight (8) hours of be would actually have fitness.
UNION LEAVE OP ABSENCE
25,04	The Company agree* to grant unpaid leave of absence, upon written application, for a period of not more than twelve (12) month* or for the balance of the duration of this Agreement (whichever ia longer) to any employee who hai been elected or appointed as an official of the Parent Union or of the Local Union, If tech dutlei require him to have leave of absence from hi* Company duties on a frill time basis.
Employee* on such leave of absence may be continued as active members of the pension and welfare plana (subject to applicable legislation and/or government regulations or directions) upon payment of the total contributions to aucb plans whether from the Union or employee concerned. During such period of leave of absence the employee's seniority shall continue to accumulate aa if ha were employed at his regular post by the Company.
45
SECT10
GUARANTEED^
26.01	The Guaranteed Wage Plan, whi intended to provide assistancefortb more years of seniority who are laid foregoing lay-offclauws, and is sot existing practices.
SECT
DUPUCATIO
26
kGE PLAN
ii a supplement to this Agreement, is 9 eligibleemployeeswhohaveoneor Tas a result of applicationof the be construed as authorization to after
)N27
OF BENEFITS
27,01	An employeeshallnotrecelvew is or other allowances such as holiday pay,vacationpay, Weekly Indemnit LTD.,Workers' Compensadon, orother similarbenefitsfcoo more than one urce for the same day or part day.
SECT10 28
COST OF LIVING XOWANCE
28.01 A Cost of Living Allowance ins
regularemployees for all hours worl holidays, in the period finn/aouary pay period followingpubl ication of Index (1971 • 100), the basis of $.0: Consumer Frias Index (1971-100) December 31,1995 calculated by su - 100) for the month of December, December, 1994 Consumer Price Ini Price Index (1971- 100) for the mor
mpsumpaymentidD.bepaid Id I, including vacation and statutory 1995toDccerober31,1995, the fiat : December, 1995 Consumer Price er hour for each hill .3 change in the i the period fintt January 1,1995 to noting tie Consumer Rriaelndex (1971 H after adding thereto 7% of the <(1971 * 100), firm the Consumer of December, 1995.
46
SECTION 29 LETTERS OF INTENT
l Ji. grcementfor if t * n 1 el on t Intent lid shall c e construed of nj toftl Ct l' v hi itae itb ifnot renewed by the parties, shall expire on he date of expiry of this A
SECTION a
JHNOLOGICA1 CHANGE
01 In the event that during thii	agreement, the 3 plans to
introduce	a	|j	da ale g	which h anticipates will directly result
into	i	ft■	ban f 10) or n	we tegular employees,ibefollowing
shall apply.
(a)	T ^naj i a 1 j e sUnioi notice of web technological change at
least sixty (60) dayi before the dele on which the technological d l to l el d Af in ,l mj	shall Identify by job classification,
tl number of jobs to be	d T1 jobs to be [ shall be grouped
y the Company for the purposes | d Cc) herein.
(b)	The Company will meet and vaththelhim the deployment of
f/ieaffected regular employees in	withihe provisionsof the
collective	ig	and the provision	ai set out in the i dWajs
Plan	%	and, in so ^ it U It	Ij the employeesto be indefinitely
laid off;
(c)	During the first thirty (30) days of to notice period and prior to effecting any I Eft or J i Jt I ti' r tho Company shall
•i Ash ee* for special -arty n	di ,b
employees shall be approached within each j	« in g f (a)
in order of acute ty and.il sy mom to take special early retirement widtia to above thirty (30) day period	d a	retire within thirty C < »j
thereafter, li ti«al	>g t	g< Bonus(1 IfceTCE vail
be determined by dividing the total amount of the separation psyr entitlement of all employees' designated for Indefinite layoff in paragraph b) above, by the ill n :cf pla $0 l I be J The number of special early istiiBEB in ary group who may receive the	B will not exceed the n	of jobs in
g which art to be	ntly p by the technological change
■ i a greater number of eligible tol in yg p so elect to take special early retirement, theTCB will pi be paid to the most senior of them
47
30.02	(a) If the number of eligible a special.early retirement is less than permanently diylaosrt by the techi
(b)	If the Company did not antld] introductionof the major technoloj Indefinite layoff of ten (JO) or men
the followingprovisions vwl appi;
(i)	the employees ultimately dee If permitted to elect separation and Cc scheduled date of layoff Those en the Company shall be entitled tore calculated^ accordance with Sect were classified as probationary on the ir separationpayment calcul atlc Dollars <$1,000.00);
(U) those employees designated ft elect to terminate from the Compai preceding paragraph, and who are i HBgePlan, shall receive thebenef such employees shall receive an ad that Plan, subject to tls following!
A. an employes may use the add once duringhis employment, and i eight (8) weeks can never be restoi
ployeea in any group who elect to take he number ofjobs In that group to be logical change, or.
le the number of lay-offs but the :al changeactually directly reeuiia in the regular employees.
ited far indefinitelayoff hereunder will be erminate from the Company prior to thar iloyees soelectingand terminatlog from rive the amount of separationpayment n 31 hereof. If any of those employees gularemployeespriorto March 21,1988, shalMnchide an additional One Thousand
Indefinite lay-offhereunderwhodonot ' pursuant to the provisions of tho tjible forpardcipadon in the Guaranteed i provided for under that Plan. In addition Idonal eight (8) weeks of benefit under radidom:
mal eight (8) weeks of entitlementanly (withstanding Ssctdm 8 of the Han, the 1
B the additional eight (8) weeks entitlement shall be tbe first weeks used.
SECTION 31
SEPARATION PAY
31.01	A Regular employee shall be end subsection .03 provided be hoi not be provided be meeti any ofthefollowii
(a)	If he la terminated for a reason c
'	d
(b)	if he ii laid cff and on any date { him during the previous twelve (12) „ percent (501) of nonrial full time ho Company or Government pension otj Weekly Indemnity or Long Term Dig
(c)	in special cues where a laid off < of recall to regular work within ■ peri i mmcd iate termination and separator Company and the Union this may be clause in (b) above;
(d)	if ha 1> ultimately deaignatcd for technological change as provided in a
An employee eligible for a separation not later than ilx months after be Aral right to such payment dull be cancell
Notwithstanding the above if the Con operation, an employee laid off as an separation pay to which he is entitled
j separation pay as set out in eluded by subsection .02 and visions:
ban set out In subsection .02;
his lsfycff (he hours scheduled for :utive months were less than fifty ovided he is not eligible for any nefi (sunder the angary's insured 'Plans;
yee appears to have lisle prospect six months be may request and with the concurrence of the
d notwithstanding the eligibility
nite lay off as a result of a major >30.02;
tent hereunder must apply for it tnes eligible therefor, otherwise his
permanently discontinues an oust apply for and shall receive any ut waiting the six month's period.
49
31.02	Notwithstandingsubsection.QI separation pay eligibility ift
(a) he quits;
j^b) he is tenninabed far just cause;
(c)	he is tenninatedunder Section
(d)	he has been terminated becaus Government authority which has th operations; unless
(i) the dusctim or decree U ther> Company or one of its tepicsentath
(il) the direction or decree purport within the Province;
(e)	he has been laid df because ad foreign power orby any ocf of sabc
(0 he is laid c£f and has arranged absence without pay for a specific j
(g)	be is in receipt of income repli Indemnity or Long Term Disability
(h)	he is entitled to receive any per Pension Plan.
an employeetbali be excluded from
.01 of thia collective agreement;
of specific direction or decree firm any effect of curtailing any cf the Company's
all of aq Illegal act oaraittad by the Par
to change the method of beer retailing
ny act of var ortho hostile actof any ge or insurrection or by any act of God;
Ith the Company to talc a leave of riod in lieu of Ms layoff,
ement benefits underthe Weekly Ians <x the Worker's Compensation Act;
ion under the Company or Government
31.03 Theamountof the S^arstiai payment of an eligible employeeshall be equal to:
(a) One week's base earning (aaqatedonthe basis of hourly rate in effect as of time oflay ofi>nultiply the riHmber of his completed years of seniority (as for vacation entitlement) as of	last day he actively worked in the
Bargaining tint, plus
(b) Foremployeesclasslfled as probationary orregularemployees priorto March 21,1988 , an adAtimalThre* iLrrted andSewnty-fire Dollars ($375.00) multiplied by his completed years of seniority used in (a) above to a maximum of 13 years. However, sudh eligible employee who applies for separation pay at the time he first becomes eligible therefor shall have his separationpay under thispart calculated as one week's base earnings (computed on tho basis ofhis hourly rate in effect as of fta the of layoff) muitipliedbytha number of his completed yean of seniority used in (a) above to a madman of 15 years, ffthere it a permanentclosureof a brewery, the IS year maximum is replaced with a 30 year maximum.
31.04	The Company shalbs authorised to deduct firm any separation pay payable to an employee hereunder the amountof any Guaranteed Wage Plan payment made to such employee whlCh the employee was not entitled to twelve.
31.05	If ai employee applies for and accept! a separation payment hereunder, his employment!* terminated and his seniority and any other rights under the CollectiveBargalning Agreement are cancelled.
51
sectic
DURATIONANDRlfVIS
32.01	This Agreement stall jHtmnh	of
signing to December 31,1995, art	-year
thereafter, unless notiaa oi not lest	sixty
(60)daysprior to theexpirationof	arty to
other party of (heir intention to rev
51
IN WITNESS whereof the parties hereto have caused their names to be subscribed by their duly authorized officers and representatives on this, the day/f of November,
1994.
53
SICKLEAVE
1.	You will onlyreceive sick pay farnormal working days which are lostthrough illness. For example, if you an absent on Thursday and Friday but return to work on Monday, you will be paid at your basic wage rate then ii effect foe Thursday and Friday. TEai would not receive sick pay fbrSaturday cr Sunday urtlessthey were regular working days.
2.	Coincidentwith the installationofthe sick pay plan will be the deletion of the eight day retroactivity provisions of the former weekly Indemnity plan Sick days would apply to working days not affected by weekly indemnity which were formerly considered to be Ibe waiting period.
3.	If you become a permanent employeeafter Januaiy 1st. the number of sick leave days to your credit wD.be pro-rated. For example, if you become permanent on July 1st, your credit will be 6/12x6 days - 3 days.
4.	Ifyou terminate employmentorastio during the year you will be paid the unused portion cf your sick leave on apnrcatebasis. For example, if you leave on September 1st, you wi 11 receive 8/12 x 6 day s X your basic wage rale then in effect
SA
LARATT RETIREMENT PLAN FOR BREWERY WORKERS INTORONTO
TUa lection of the booklet lie eummery of the mein feature* of the Ltbitt Brewing Company Limited Retirement Plan fa Wage Smploycca a* amended January 1,1994 with nipect to Brewery Warteia employed by Lebjti Brewing Ctraipvny limited in Toroolo/Onurio, A complete deacription of the Plan which 1* the governing document it available fa reference at your Human Reaaureea Office. tf you beve airy queitioM do not bedlam to »eek the aniwen from your Supervisor or Human Rttourcei tuff.
1. ELIGIBILITY FOR MEMBERSHIP
A new employe* become* i member of (be Piastre the Tint day ofthe Booth coincident wife or tmmeri lately following completion of 90dayt of wort In a 12 month period aadhiareniority date will dtcaheeiublubcdu hit due of employment fa purpoaei of 61i Plan.
You will be advlted when yoo an eHfible aad are (trolled aa a member tod you wffl be uked to submit proof of your age.
x contributions
You era not required to nuke oootributkiei to die Plan in retpect of y«nr aerviea after January I. 1974. Any required eartritatkmi which you have made iocaapaotofaervke before /anuiry 1,1974 mania to yew credit in tba Flu and wiU be applied to provide beaeflta ioitipectofyoar eervioe before January 1,1974.
Tba Company contribute! whatever amount ia nemaary, ikn| with the required coatrlbudom made by eaptoyeea in raapact of aetvloe before January t, 1974, to provide the bemflta called fa uoder the Plan. The Company alaopny* dm ftdl coal ofndminlsaeriiig the Plan and, In addition, matches your contribution* to (he Canada Feta km Plan.
AH contributions to dm Plaa are paid over to the Royal Trutt Compaay to be isveatsd aad held In tout for the purpoaei of paying benefits u provided In the Plan.
X NORMAL RETIREMENT DATS
Normal retirement bataga 61 Your pemioocazunenoetia of the flnt day of the month coincident widi or immediately fallowing yow 65 th birthday.
55
4. SERVICE AND CREDITED SERVICE
Your urvicetorjuaUfy for certain of ttiabeaefil* under tbePlinUthe total number of yean from your dale of employment at aWabliahcd under Iba Plan to the dale uo wbicb you retirti die or terminate rerric*.
The mimbar of year* of your treditrd" aarvioe determiner (be amount of peoiioa you are entitled to receive. Qeditod eervlco It calculated aaexpiafaad below:
(a)	From January l, 1974you reeetva a credit of one year while a member of Ihe Plaaci a prorated partial year of credit for leaa Ran 1800 born. For cumpk, if while a member of <be Flu yon work only 900been to a year, your credit for that year will b« ooe-haif year (900 divided by 1 $00). If you ate ibeent due tod lability, you wiU receive aervlcecieditt for any period* <hninj which you ire totally diaibled and receive weekly indemnity or tang tea dlaability bmirance benefit! or Wodttn'Coropetaatloc payment*, but in no event will you receive more then cat ye ar of credlied aenfce for any ooe ealeadir year.
(b)	Your credited «vloe for (he period from January 1,195! to December 31,1973 ii the Dumber of yeara for which you have made the required contributiooi to 6* Plan.
(c)	If you were a member ofa pterion* company peneloo pin before January 1, 1931 when Ihe
Labait Ratireinem Flu became efteedre, your credited eervice lo December 31,1957 i* the period ftoa your data of wnpioyiaenl to December	1957 but »«chxHn| any period* wbeayoo were
eH|ftde to but did ool contribute to the pte viour plan.
9.	CALCULATION OT SASIC PENSION CREOrT
You receive credit fa a moodily beak pectioa payable from yov normal retfacmeat date (me 65) calculated aafblowK	.
a)	/orserrlceefterJaouaiy 1, IP95 • a raaalhly pension equal to333.50 multiplied by theaurtoer of year* of cndtod eervloe or e profited amount for 1&4) than oneyaa/i
b)	forjecvioBiJteflenuny 1,1994 • a monthly petition quel to $33.00 multiplied by tho number ofyeartofcrodtod service a a prorated mount lor leu than one year.
c)	fir aexviceifter January 1,1993 -a monthly ptttsion equal totJlOOnwld^liedb; the number
af you* of credited oerrlo* or a prantod amount for	dun one yeuj
d)	lor rotvfoa after January 1,1992* a monthly pendonequil to $31.00 multiplied by Ihe number CTyean or endited service or a prorated amount to leu dun one yens
e)	fia tervloe after January 1,1991 *araondilypetKione<juaIto$30.00iEultfpIled by Ike number olfyoan ofcradltedienrloe ore prorated emouot lor leu than one year.
I) for •ervicaaftnr January !■ 1990-(3JI.00 multiplied by the number of yean of your credited •erviea after January 1,1W0 or a profited amount for I ess then one year.
g)	for service in 1989 • $27.00 for one year of credited urWee la 1989 or a prantod amount for lift than oca year;
h)	fortavioainl988 « $28.00 for Otte year of credited arvica jn 19BS a prantod amount for leu then one you;
1) f aatr*lcainl987*$2aOOfaOQeytarofcrafitedservKeifil987aaproratedusount for leu than one yean
j)	for lervica in 1916 *$19.50 foronoyearof credited rorviee in 1988 a a prorated amount for leu than one you;
k)	forsarvinein 198$ • $19X0 fet one year of credited urvice inl985 or porated amount for leu than one year,
l)	fortervicetnl984 * $17.2$ for one year of erodtoedaetvko In 1984 or a prorated amount for Jmj thin one year,
m)	foraervlce in 1988 *$16.50 f ormyaarofaBtitBl aavioa in 1983 or a profited amount for leu (ban ooa year,
n)	for service in 1982 *$152)0 lor one year of credited servicainl982 annotated amount or leu than one yean
o)	for lervlce in 1981 - 314A0 for one year of credited service In 1981 or » prorated amount for leal than oneyear;
p)	forawvieein 1980* $18.00 faone year of credited service ntl9S0ora proratedmountfor leai (bin ooa year;
q) far tervlco to December 31,1979-foe amount of moolhly basic penaioa to your credit fa tarvica to December 31,1979 determined la accordance with the tenor of the Plan in effect to December 31,1979,
57
6. AMOUNTOFNORMALBBmEKKNTPENSION
When you rein atyournctmaldit*(aga 65>ycu willn<«lv-» » monthly bulo pension from the Labstt Retirement Plan la an amount equal to the sum of your bade pension audita determined u expiated in Section 5. InaddHonyou will receive any pension which is payable to youwstier a previous plan (sc* $«ti«n 16> and anysuwtoey pension (such u CP.P. and O.A-S,) which is payt'ole to you under government plane. You may slso qualify for a supplement from the Labitt Retirement Plan under the ndnbnuiii pension provision expiated in Section 7,
7. MINIMUM PENSION AT NORMAL RETIREMENT
If you retire at age 6} vith at lout 30 y«n of created service, you ere entitled to eminimttm monthly penslo a fromCcmpany Plans indlheCanadaPefuiottPlancoaiHnedof!	'
a)	$!,980l if yon retire aa or after lanuaiy 1,1994;
b)	$2,055 if you retire on or after January 1,1995;
These mounts retresenl tbs minimum monthly penaton payable fern Company Plus and the Guide P teuton Plan comb ted before allowici fortfeeprovMoo of a spcuut survivor pension, The Company Peneiaawi l be edjnited bprovlde a survivorpccaloauAlui Ihespouss wbo will benefit fiontfiet survivor pension wilv«hWb« right to recelvs it faa writing.
You wQ) receive a minimum lifetime pension supplement from the Ubut Retirement Rian equal to the amount, it any, required to be added to your scorned baste pension from tH Company Ptaa and the full unreduced Canada Feunco Plan Retirement benefit! determined st thedate of your re tire men! to provide tbe above minimum monthly pension.
If you retire stage55 with lew than 30ye«rs of credited serves, tfw lifetime supplement iball be the amount by which the mkHmtro pension at normal retirement exceeds the foil unreduced
Canids PsnitonPlifl Retirement bsnsflts, prorated by the ratio of the numberef yuan of crcdtedMrvfcs to30 years andredwed by y our accrued pension.
lb determine wb&t, if my, mount of supplement is needed, your basic pension fim Company Plans is the basic amount paysbte before the amount of tha sundvorahlp pension iscalcuisted, and your OS'S, pernioa is (he amountyou art entitled to receive tfenyou Bret become eligible at Moron] Retirement age, whether ernot you actually make application for any reoh benefits, but dlsregsjdtog tty facreaw b your GPJ. penskc after in dateef eonanracemenl.
5$
I. SPECIAL EARLY RETIREMENT
If you are age 60 arov« jndyOU have 30 <r mote years ofcredited servlenjoimay elect Spec Lai Early Retirement, in which cue yog will be entitled to an faunediite acenied basic pension equal to the amount cf basic ponsm to yourcndit Tor service to your (fate of early retirement, without reduction for your ear! wage of rctirtmcct.
ThU penxioa will be mpplemanted by an amount necessary to provide the minimum monthly pension tmounti ad out below, until you Ant become eligible to receive unreduced Canada Pena Ion Flan Rndjttneci benefits
a)	if you retire on drifter Jidamy 1,1994-11,743
b)	if you retire on or after January 1,1993-41,794
Once you become aliglbla to receive unreduced Canada Peniion Plan Retirement benefits (on attaining age 63) the supplement win be tecelculitedai the amount requited tabs added to your aectued baric ptodon end (befall unreduced Canada Peaiion Plan Retirement benefits, determined «i a! die actual dam ef your redremeatto produce the foUowing.monlhly pensions;
a)	ifyouredreccorafter Jammy 1,1994-41,9*0
b)	if you retire on or after January 1,1995 - $2,055
(Onoe again, both eats of figures above do not taka account of tbe reduction required to produce a •univor option far the surviving spouse.)
Tbia recelcuUted tuppUaent shill booome your lifetime rippteinent
b sddidoo to tide recalculated Ufcdtna ruppkaneni, you will be codded to receive a further
your 63th Hrtbday, Tide father eappiamanl will Mpreesnt tba amount, if any.oaeetaaty to produce niotd pension gram Company Plant equal to the pension that would he payable If you were frea retiring at normal retireaant, baaed on tba normal retirement mlatmure pcnsloii and ftill unreduced Canada PeaaicoPlan retirement benefit both detorminada* of that data, your aecnied peaiion Including any tecelatiou bereofaad youttelited credited acrvice at the dab of your retirement, This briber supplement shall then be added band farm pert of your lifetime supplement
59
9. SJ POINT RETIREMENT
If you retire on (rafter January 1, 1994, after having reached age S3 and your combined age and year* of credited aervica total <5 orrooro (but prfor tohavina qualified for Special Early Retirement), you are entitled toan Immediate accrued penalou qual to the amart of your vested . accrued basic pens ion foriervlco tetho data of early retirement
If addition, you ahull be entitled to a lifetime supplement calculated ua if you had reached agedd on your date of retirement, but uhu your current unreduced vetted accrued basic pension and your related etedl tad aervica, tbe full unreduced Canada Pension Plea Retirement benefit and the normal retirement minimum pension, all determined u of your actual &ta of retirement.
lit addition tothit recalculated lifetime »ppLsmant,you wi be entitled to receive a ftirther lupplemeitt commencingon the flSiday of the month coincident wlthor Immediately following your 65th birthday, TUa father supplement will repreeeatlhe amount, ifany. neceeiaryto produce a total pmam from Company Plans qual to the pension that would be payableif you were then re tirinj at name! retirement bued on the normal retirement minimum pension arid full unreduced Canada Pension Hanretirementbeaefil both determined as of that cfete, your accrued pension including any escalationtbereof tsd your related credited aervica ± the date of your retirement This further supplement shall tiiertbe added to and form part of your lifetime stfplanmt
10,	OTHER EARLY RETIREMENT
Atanytimeaftcryounaiel^yon may reqpett early retirement tad elect tedrtwyour pensicn. If you retire after havingreaefced age $5 but prior to having qualified for	Early
Retirement a S3 Point Retirement, you an entitled man immediate accrued pension qual to the amount (f vetted ecenedbiaiopMiifcn to your credit for eorvioe to tiw (fate ofyour retirement, reduced by ooe-third of 1% for each north (la. 4ft per year) you are under 4*065 vtei your pension commence*,
Ih addition, you will be entitled to receive a lifetime supplement calculated as if you had reached age 63 on tire data of ywretiiBiBt, but using your cunent unreduced vested accrued bale pension and your related credited aerrfce, the full unreduced Ceaada Peukm Plan Retirement benefit and the normal retirement mtobnumpeaitoa, all determined aa at your actual data of ■------
iWaUfctireo supplement to oalcuUtedwQlalsobcnduccd by coe-thM of for eachnS (l.e, 4ft per year) yon are under age 65 when your pension cnsnmwteca.
60
II. DUABUXnr MCTIBEMSWT(b*ftwif««)
As long ai your are eligible b receive disability benefits under the Group Insurance EUn you will receive ante andbutepensimcrediti under thoLabatt Retirement Han and you will not bo settled. However, if you become partially disabled and you do not qualify fee Insurance benefit! you may qualify for Disability Retirement. Retirement under this provision require* that;
a)	you are it I cut age so andbive ocnpleted 10 yeert <f service, and
b)	you are certified tobopartiitly distded and thereby prevented firm performing any wort svailahLawith Is conpany. and
c)	It is mutually agreed by you ardby the Company that you be retired under the Disability Retirement provision.
On retirement under Hie disability provision you are entitled to an immediate pension equal totiw amount of basio pension to your credit for service to your date of disability retirement without reduction for your carter age of retirement Inaddition, until you qualify for tha earlier of receipt of CJP, disability-benefits erthe tttahmtni Of agetiS, you wl receive a monthly disability supplement equal to $14.00 multiplied by the number of years of credited service vp to 30 years.
At age 63, you wfll then reoetve ahfetime wpphoeatealculated ai ifyou had reached age tfoatbe&tecfyoirretirement, butuilag your current unreduced vested accrued buie pension and your related credited mica, the ftib unreduced Canada Mention Plan retirement benefit and ilia Normal Retirement minimum pension determined seat your actual date of
redretnaot.
61
13. DEATH AND RETIREMKNTr
Joint ttd Surrivor Peaaion:
¥axr vested aocraedbulo pension and mlaJnum supplementsam payable for M long as vnu live andceamurffteflrrt day of die merthin which your derihoccun.
A plan member with in eiigiblespouse whouket Normal, Special Early, 15 Point,Disability or Other &dy retirement on or after January 1.1994, ibaU naivea joint and survivor pension, tcdcH the member dellven to the Plan Adodatunlor (through your Hutan Resources Office) a written waiver cf inch entitlement ie the preecribed form within the 12 month period immediately pneediag the oommcnccrncTit cf the paymentof the pension benefit.
Unlace waived, yoir accrued belie pension aed lifetime supplement, if any, *h*H be reduced by 10% during your lifetime. l£cn your death, your eligibleiurvtvijig epctac shell receive a pension of 60% of your reduced aconmdbiale pension and lifetimesupplameut, if wy (subject to e further actuarial reduction if yocrspoust is more dun 10 years younger thin
Yoursdf).
13. DEATH BEFORE RET1KEMBNT
If ywt should die on or after Xauuaiy t, 1994, srtdle in the service of (be Company and after yoe have reached aga 55 and have 10 yeare of service, your eligible earrhriaf spouee wiS receive a pension for her remaining lifetime. Her pension will bo equal to the amount of pension she would have received from the Plea had you retired u of your date of death end elected a rednoed joint eurvivonhlp pension bned on your reduced nocruod basic pension and lifetime euppiemttt(wiftootdto actuarial reductiom ifmyh bvlher pension will be (object n>a reduction If rise it some than 10 yean younger than yon. Peuion payments to your eligible surviving spouse ere guaranteed to return any required contributions yoc have made to the PUa with iotereet to your dale of death.
The Ufotfcse supplement vrilibe calculated as if you bad attained age65 on the date of your death, but using your current unreduced accrued buie pension end your related credited service, the foil unreduced Canada Pension PUa retirement benefit and the normal retirement mbrimam penrion all determined ei of your acted dale ef death.
If you die before your penrion commence! and yout spemeieoot codded to ■ peosltm u explained in the preceding paragraph, any ooncibu dons you have made with tateresttsyour date of dead) will be paid to the benefidvy you have named a, falling such, to your estate.
You may change your benefidary from time to time ee pennltled by law by completing a form which ia available from your Human Reeourece Deportment.
The death benefit paid above shall ncr be less hm provided h editing penrion legfalrikm.
14. W YOU LEAVE THE COMPANY
If yourtervfceb (enniztttedaaar after Juunyl,1? ,(cfc« tbinbyrttlreaeatardtith) ntifjniliivieMgfMii Iwtljw otniHitdi ice with the Coraptny, you will be tntMedto » deferred monthly pemloa it «|e 63 equal tt ie accrued bale pennon tod lifetime tuppkmeat to your credit.
htkti of Ihil defected peaaianciitltla»ent)roiim*y el to trailer the uaimlilel mIw ef your peoftlao to your Rostand RettaftiiiealSftviestP . Any amount aotnntfaaftdeuy he ftubjftOttoPrwfaclftltock^-lttiequbetneWft.
If yog were* member ol the Plan before January 1,1? when your eervke it terminated you may either:	-
t) lcftv e tSo{ your coudbutianiia (he Plan udreceivi »$« 63 a monthly pention equal to Ihi bitte pew k» to your credit to December 31,1973, w kli included in the penalon referred to ibore,or
k) wiihiJnwyoufoofllributiouftpIuilniBfMt to your d* f termination of eervlee b which «tN]iM tabijmcMlilel wvIntaDtentelli 13, andanypenaloo larerpeci ataoeh tervice which iiltdodedlnlhfl penriott referred to tht ,tnbject to applicable petition
toflilltlMU,

U. ESCALATION OF PENSION AFTER SI DtEMBNT
If you retire on or after Jwroa7 1,1994 ftom flu ervice of lb* Company punuatf to any of tho type* qf retlmseal lilted above, your pewkw aa dfetiaio ropplcmeot will be reviewed from January lit of each yt« which followi your nd moot date. Your accrued basic peoatoo end lifetime euppiemeiu, if any, »hall bo increased a inch January lit following your redremtoi by the tenor of the percentage focreue in the Cosn *r Prk» Index for the jrecadlng year and 2%. Any apoosal pen* tan will also be escalated appl; tg tin lame formula, with fl» Ant ineteaio occurring oo the January lufoDowing yourdan
l*WWVIOU3IXAl«(b#ibnJaaiiir7l,lJ J)
Ifyou were a member of apnviousCcmpinypt don plan (Oareremeoi Annuity Plan) In effect before Jammy 1,1551. your beuefta ton tbit p-n are payable to accordance with theprovialoos of tbit previous pies and are fa addition to ft* tanafit you receiva from the Ubea BeHreraeot Plea.
Since your period cfmetobcnUp in toe previous pin Ji included la determining your total credited scevtoe, any beak pension to yew wedlt tiler foe previous plea 1» titan into aocaom in detennlntogfonamoamofanyminioKa pension suppUtnentyoatm entitled to receive. Since your peoaion from the prevtoos plan wiD be ectnarfelly reduced if you retire before ifo 69, your bade IJWpension a^taefeda an amount eguai to too difference betwcenyowactiiiriaily seduced previous pension plan and Ike amount of bade previous plea pension el age 65 reduced by tha isms factors ai an applicable to your LJIP. pension aa explained to Section* *, 9,10 or II,as tbeeatemayba.
For (here purpose* your bade previous plan pension baa bean determined and fixed m dial amount of pension payable from age 45 and guaranteed tor a maxtorem of 3 yeare wbiefe wouM fee available to acoeidanca with tha tanea of the prevtoos plan to effect at December 31, W7 but exetodlag any peseta purehased by votuataay eaeiributioni you may baye raide to ft* plan.
Any bcreaie in toe amount of your Oovamaett Annuity which bai resulted from as facreaaa in totem! rate from 1975 ia not cooddeied u a pvt of your bade previous plan peoiloa and would be payable at m am benefit ora and above youi bulo pension.
Aftm mdnment yow total basto pension which ii mbjqpt to eecdation aa explained in Section U ketudea tbe amount of breto previous plan pension determined u explained above.
17. OTHER INFORMATION
(a) Annual Statement >Yoe will receive a Malcmaat	wing each calendar year end tawing
the amountofbenefit* toyourcreditmuterd»nan.
(b> Beaefia Not Auignable - the benefit* provided uiw r the Plan an not aulftabk except aa la (pacifically provided wilh teapect to dead) beoefxi are lay you borrow agaiui Hum at any thac. Sioliuty. aaotpiaa ipedfially provided at tea duttaofaetvloeor in connection with death, no benefit cm ba umadeied.
(c)EUg*lo SurvivingSpoata- Yourapouele eflfibli forte aurvivtng Jpouae'i peseta under Section 12 or II provided yon hrra been married fa it leaatona year before yourretbomaat ordaaih, whichever ii earlier. tloder cettaln drounu niece a crenmoo-law tpouae nay qualify end tha Human Raaouicea Depmatulwill an weryourqueettaalnftieiMpecL
(d> Income Tax-All peseta payment* received frotn taipany peotion plana are oootidered ea income far tax jxirpoeei la tha year in wild) received Your CJi*. andOAS.penalona nuut elao be reported utaxdbla Income when yon file yon • sue! tax mum, Slmilarty.aUmoaiet received is hnnp turn withdrawal! oe death baneftti mu be declared aelnecuM for mxpuapocea in the year is which received and art taxable wdeta me manlaoarekanefemdmataglatand ndremeat aevlnfc plea.
It GOVERNMENT PENSION PLANS
Stetutcey benefit! from government plane web aa that anadaPemim Plan (GPJP.) and the peseta under the Old Aye Security Act(OutS.)arel addition to the benefice payable under the Labett Retirement Plan.
Under cuneat kgklatian your (LPJP. pemion i< peyabk when you reach aye 65, or aa eariyaa agatiOen a reduced beaia. The amoeuu of yom CP-P. metal* dependent upon the amount of yow eartuagi cn which you have made CJPP. cofttribu me and the period dorief which you ermribntad. To Uhutrata, an employee who retiree el age 6S in 1994 and who la entitled to maximum benefitt under to Canada Peaata Plan receive! a penita of$694 ptroouh when bo retiree. After CPP.peaata eatnmcaeea ilia object in aryuatmeai aaefc bOowiag January It! depending upon tenaaeeiste Comunet Prioe Index.
Your OAikpeattababo payable from age tS but If you taka up retidenoe outride Canada your OA.S. peaata may be dbeaitauad uuleaa you have bom a Canadian reddest for a prescribed number of yeen. 1/yau pine In move out of Canada you tbould check Iran dreetreryilremente. Theemonmof OAA. peseta fa aubject to quarterly adjuwisctrt upward If to (VmeBtncr Price bdaxiacnaaea. In ftmirey, 1994 the OA4.paMtawaaS3t3.il per month.
Your apoutc wifi abo receive OAJ.peoriauhtoalitt payable from age {Subject to to aarua reeklency requirement! apodfied above.
Application mtw be made to receive benefit* from the Canada Peaata Plan and Old Age Security and the application! ihoutd he filed 6 mootha b advance of your date of eligibility far each pention* to esnire prompt conemoncemeM of your benefit!. Ai web a* retirement pemtaa, the Canada PenrionPlui provide! certain dlaribUfay, death end aurvivor benefit! and father information eaa be obtained from your local Canada PsmtaPlen Office.
19. pensicnexamples PENSION EXAMPLES
The foflowlagManpba haw been calculated trades January 1,1994 and uiumkf the employee is credited retirement. Micknura pension supplements bu detcnni CPP pension payable at 65 at the employee's retirement
EXAMPLE At Normal Retirement Feeafai hi 1994
Util example libewd on a member who:
•	Wires b of July 1,1994 Bate 65
•	has credited aanrfcv of I6yearnto December 31,197 month.
Labatt Retire meet Plan provisions si amended hat least ItOOhoure in each year until by takioi into account the maximum amountof a.
It 30 years of Credited Service
ft basie pension credited to that date of $325 per
- fcas credited service of 14 yean from January 1,1990	Jecember 31,1993 wift basic pernios aa
follow*
Rw service is
TOTAL
1910	13.00
1991	14.00
1982	15.00
1913	16.50
1994	17.25
1983	19.00
1986	I9.SO
1997	30.00
1911	26.00
1989	27.00
1990	28.00
1991	3000
1993	314)0
1993	324)0
	3506.25
SJOI.23
- wqska 40 beam in each cf 36 weeks k 1994 for a total rf (40 a 36) ■ 1040 hows which fives dm
employee credited aervice in 1994 of0040 /1900)»(LSI yean sad a bask pension credit of
$334)0	$19.14 per month	$ 19.14
TOTAL BASIC pension
ISS3J9
• Ie employee it entitled io » minimum monthly total of $1,910 fnxa Company plant and CPP pentioo tinea thll em ploy eehat total credited terries of (19 + M1QJ4)“ JOJI
Front age 65 die employee1! monthly retirement l«wm la:
Basic Company pest loo credited:
to December 11,1979	t 335 m
Jan. 1,1910 to Dec. 31,194)	$305.25
Jan. 1,1991 toJuaalO. 1991	$ 19.14
1UV Baaio Petition	$ 152J9
AddLAPlifetimetupptanent	$ 733.17
Total from Company plant	$1.2!1$£
AddCP.P.petition (mb 1994)	$994.44
Total from Company plana tod <JP	$1,9*0.00
Add OA3 (ration (aa InJanuary 1994)	$ 385.B1
Total monthly lacana at age 45	1WHJ1
97
EXAMPLES: Surviving Spouse's Pension
This example Ii based On a member wbo retires m in Example "A", but who i a married and whoso death ocean shortly after lettrwntm.
Tbe bask: patriot and the lifetime supplement si Example "A” are reduced by 10% as a result oflha neiribarhavlng the anrvhror benefit. Th« spouse ialei*that 10yeanyounger lhanthe member. If mombei's pension and spew's pension.
Ttamemba^ monthly Income at retirement is:
Total bum Company plane (tljtldt a .90)
CPP ta 1994
Total bon Company plant and CPP Add OAS in Jan. 1994 Total Moodily Income
Following the meaba'i deads, the surviving apoute a total ben Company plan* and CPP.
Tie monthly iocoana le:
Total Aon Company pIaei<SM57.00z .60)
CPP in 1994 (J694.44 a .60)*
Total float Caapaty Flea* and CPP
In addition, If (he swviviiti spovae la age 63 « own! S3tS.ll.
SI.1S7.00
S 694.44 SM3I.44 S Mill S346SAI
d receive a monthly income cf 60% of the above
S 694.30
S 416.66 SI.HU7
vfl qualify fcrtheOAS monthly benefit of
* Spouse is age 6J. Amount a# CPP tpomalpanriotu ipendeooage at tint employee’s death.
EXAMPLE Ci Normal Kstireneirt Pension lo 1994 with 25 yuri of Credited Serlce
Thlo example Is beied on i member who:
• retiree ei or January 1, 1994 stifle 45
-htt credited service of 11 year* to December 31. 1979 with bask pension credited tothaMate of
-hu credited service cf 14 years from Jtmiuy 1,1980 to December 31,1993 with bulc pension credited at follows:
For service in	1980-JI3.00
1981-	14.00
1982	• 15.00
1983	• 1850
1984-	17.25
1985-	19A)
1988-	19J0
1987	- 20.00
1988	- 26.00
1989-	27.00
1990-	28jQO i99t- moo
1992	- 31.00
1993	- 32.00
Total 1 308.25
The employee is entitled t»e bask ncrthLy pension * »|e 85 oft
49
AI ego 63 the employe* ii entitled Id a wppletncw to provide a pro-nu minimum
penrJon calculated ai followi;
Minimum pennon far 30 or more year* of credited aervice:	$1,910.00
Subtract 1994CPP	($694.44)
Minimum from Company pcaiion plan baaed on 30 yean eervlce	$1,283.5$
Minimum from Company penakm plan baaed cc 23 yean of aervice
(23/30 X l,285,j()	$1(071.30
Subtractbailc pemk* (ai above)	($438.23)
Monthly eupplsoentneeded	$ $13.05
Fraaife 65 tiiaetaployeeHmostitiy income 1st
Total peniion from Company plana ($43823 + 613.06)	$1,071.30
Total CFPpaukm	$$94.44
Total from Company and CPP	$1,7(3.74
Add OAS petition (n January 1994)	38341
Total monthly iaeoma at age df	$2,15143
EXAMPLE Dt ftpedal Early Retirement In 1994
This example b basal m a member whoretires u of January 1.1994 at age $3 with «total of 30 yeara of credited service.
Basic penttoa is accrued as follows;
-ldyeare in December 31,1979	$233.00
. hasendk arnica of 14 yean from January 1,1980 to December 31,1993 with baste pension credited at follows;
Rr sendee Id;	1980 >113.00
1981 • 14.00
1982-	13.00
1983-	16.30
1984-	17.23
1985-	19.00
1986-	19.50 1917- 20.00
1988	- 26.00
1989	- 27.00
1990	- 28.00 1991* 30.00
1992-	31.00
1993-	32.00
Total	S303.25
The employee la entitled (Dibasic pension stefa 63 c£
$308.2$
$333.25
As per the Special Bariy Retirement provisions of thia plan, dlls member qualifies (hr Special Bsrly Retirement and will wartvohle beilc pension without redaction, a lifetime supplement, and a temporary supplement; to reach dm Special Esriy Retirement minimum of S1.743 month In 1994L
At Sje 65, which In (hit example la 2 yean Uter, the temporary supplement will ceeee end die Hfedme supplement wm be rtcskulstod such that the member la 1993 it iga 65 would (hen receive his baiic pension without reduction, the recalculated lifetime supplement, and Ml unreduced CPP beaeflla to reach the normal retirement minimum in 1993 of 12,033.00per mesA.	*
78
The employee*! monthly income will be:
At age 64 in 1994;
BasicCwnpany Flan pension	$533.25
Lifetime lupplemest (NRD minimum it 1994 • CPF • Buie Peaiion) ($1,980 ■ ($894441 $63X25)	$752.3
Temporary supplement
(SER minimum it 1994 • Buio Pension- Lifetime Supplement)
($1,743 -($633.25+$76231))	$4*7.44
Total (SBR rttnimpm ji 1934)	$1,743X10
At age 65 in 1995 Bade Company Flu Pension
($533,25 indexed at2% feel year)	$ 543.92
Recalculated lifetime supplement	___
(NRDnfalmam at 1995-Bilk Pension-CPI) feat, to 1995)
($2,055 • ($543.924 $72212))	$ 781.87
CPP Benefits (perfected to 1995)	$ 73122
Total fromOompmy pin* end CP?	$2£35.00
Add OAS (projected I o 1995)	$ 401.24
Tfctal Income at Age 65	$145614
The member In this example elected toreceiYe foil CPP benefit* et *8# 65, lUd the member elected to receiee reduced CPPbenefla at retirement (utMiexampte age &]} the cakulrion of hULRP pension
would sot he affected.
72
EXAMPLE Et S5 Point WiUnimt
ThbeumpleUbaeed(»»membetwholi53ye*itofa| u of January 1,1994 and ha* creditedlerviceof SOyten. At (hit tnembet'eyeare of credited aenlceequi 83,thememberquallfteifar85poUtrottferneiii.
The member's batic pcniloo U accrued u fotlowt:
• 16 yean to December 3!, 1979	( 213.00
»14yeanfoaJamuiy 1,1980 to December 31,1993:
Fnrtervlce lot
1980. 13.00 1981 • 14.00
1982-	13,00
1983-	16,30
1984-	17.25
1985.	19.00
1986.	1940
1987-	20.00
1988-	26.00 1989 . 27.00
1990.	28.00
1991.	30.00 1992 - 31.00 1993- 3100
TOTAL-
The employee It entitled to * bale penrion et axe 63 of
$308,25	$308.25
$533.23
At ntfaeaent (a|e 55), the member ii entitled to hti total ule panitoa unreduced for early retirement He ia alio ectMed toe Il/edrw) aupplenjeat which la uoreduce for early retirement
At ije63, which la tUe example la 10 yeen later, Aelita me aupplemeat win be recalculated auefcthat the member b 2004 it aje 63 would then receive tali beiic pe «lo* without redaction, fee recalcolaied Uftthne auppkment, and Ml unreduced C3T beneflta la reach the itimated normal retirement mfriiatutn In2004 of $2,703.00 per month.
73
The employee** monthly Income will bee At a<e 53 b 1994:
Bwto Company Flan pejuioa
3 33553
Lifetime wpplonent (NRD mirumUM at 1994 - CFP -1 ic Pension)
($1,9S0' ($694,44f$53353)	$ 7525!
Tool (NBD rnMnaan la 1994) from Cotnpany Plm	$1,285.36
At age 63 fa 2004;
Bade OomeawPlaoPendoo
($33353 todewd U 2% for 10 yean)	$ 630,03
Baaflcniated Ufetmia wppkmcBt
(NRDmtabmnn at2004»BadePeubn-CPF(eat.fit 304)
(&660. ($6503)3 + $1,027,94))	$ 9823)3
CPP benefit! (projected to 2004)	$1,027.94
Told ficmCompaypbmsMd CPF	$2,660,00
Add OA3 (projected to 2004)	$ 571.09
TMalti>comBalaga65	$3,23109
EXAMPLE Fi Early KatiraaiaatFisiloa
"CiU ouanple It baaed on a mem ber who retire* at age 53 < January 1,1994 with 35 yen* of credited aetviea.
Tlw muobcr'a basic pension is aeauad u follow*:
• h»»creditedserviceof 11 yean to December 31,1979wi ibaaiopenaioa creditedtothatdataof 1150.00 permmdi
-hxi craditedaervice of 14 years from January 1, IStOtol scomber 31,1993 with**1**0 pension credited as follows:
Far lerviccin	19E0 -S13j00
1981 - 14,00 1982. 15.00 1983* 1640
1984. nos
1985-	19X0
1986-	1940 1987 > 20.00 1988* 2640
1989	- 2740
1990	- 2840 1991. 3000 1992- 3140 1993 . 3100
Total	8308.25	$30845
Hie employee ia entitled to l basic pension at aga 65 of	$45845
75
Ifh« W retired *t«j«W(b« employ*# iieotitlwi to Ripphmwtf to provide ■ pro-nt* mioimom petuioa cdeulatod u follow*
Minimum jwwioafco 30 or more year* of credited is do# Subtract! 994 CPP
$1^80,00
($694.44)
Mtobnum boot Company pomes pita baaed on 30 y meerric#	$1,283.56
Mialsmmi from Company pcnitaapUa bared on 25 y tnafienrico OV30x»Ot5J6)
SubMot bads pmdoa (u tbow)
Monthly supplmentueded
I1J0713O (843855) 8 613J05
From if* 63 the amptoyec'j monthly beam* Ic
TbttlpesiioafromCompanyplan($45155+ $613, S)ttip 65	$1,071.30
At nriremut (i|# SS), flw Mba U eetidad tahii tpttl bole panalon a efcawn ebov* reduced by 4% pec year prior to hi* normal redretnaotip#, bvtiit Rumple, tbe buio peulca and Hfedre# rupplenseat are reduced by 4% for etch of the 10 ye«n prior to ag* 65. Therefore, bit petition would bo reduced by 4% x 10 or 40%.
Reduction of 40% in company plaia	($428.52)
Total Monthly Ibcohm	$ <42.71
76
GROUP INSURANCE PLANS PROM JANUARY 1,1994

■BBBWBBEffORKBtf
The Company*! Orocp huuronce Plan provide! enhttngTlel protection far you and you? dependent! throophconarntaiadenwittenhyinManoecompantoa. The dMaipden in (Ui booklet bleteeded to fhra you * tenant Mptaolta of (be laaotad btneflia bat k ihould be uitantood <hat A* muter fawraioe «x**ct» an the fwentaf donmanta.
In addklaa to beMfia under Ihi* group inamnoe plea, hoapital tad medical banefita art availaibb to yon and your family under Ae loverment plana la effect In yoar province of iMtanoe and an payable in accordance with provincial reruloltas.
If yaa have any qoeittaa abort your group fonmace or if] M require oulatancn in mating claim, your • Snpervlaor or HaaanReaourem Department con ilw yon t efaformattay floored
1. SCHEDULE OP INSURED 8SNBFJTS FOR EMPUT RES
Life	Accklei tlDtttbd
iMMinW	tmonllMuianco
39.000	3900C
NOTE; Baapioycea wife covertn below the above level dill hove Ibtir coverage iacreaaed only upon their date of return lo oelfv# emptoymnat
Weekly indemnity benefit at 70% of year faoaio weekly eamutfa rate with benefit! payable from firat day cfdtaaUttty duo K» aoctaot erftmth day doe (o iQneo, to e nuxiaiani of 36 tnuktperdluUllty.
Long tain tfloability benefit at 66-2/3% of your beak urmtagl rote with benefit! conmeodsp when your weekly Indemnity benefit! eeaae.
77
Far Employees ad Dependcai;
SemJ-privii* hospital be mflt
Mgxmedicel expewe beoeflt tot 11,000 maximum pa lifetime, pa person, wthtlO deductible or $20 tally deductible
Denial toe benefits it 100* fcr bulo eenricM to wt eawial mudiuum of 1700 pw penoo, 75* ftr ititomiro lervicei od 30* fa orthodontia to ■ combined lifetime mutant of $4,500 papenon
These cover«|cs are expUlned more hilly ta Ibe foDowiaj page*. The scciiiertel deetli end cUstnembonneni Insurance, weekly Indemnity, semi-privtlo hospital, nuOoc medical ad dentil coo tausflu apply only to that scddanti end dekneas which ve not coveted by Wotfcert Gompeoiatioa at •ImUaleglileike.
Flew rcfa to the description of eeeh type of covaij be u explanation of wlut happens when you redte or tamioats service.
3. WHO MAY BB INSURED
Yott ad year eligible dependent* become insured on to ecmpMoa of 90 dsyt of woifc is a twelve month period.
Any employee absent footweak oo the due he becomes eligible win not be coveted until the day be returns to woric. Any dependent who U hospitalized oa the effective dele of your insurance win not be covered mull die day after release tarn hospital.
Dependents eligible lor famed benefit! are yeas tpooee end unmarried children Under 21 year* od age. Covence will be eoodnwd lor • decedent Child beyond 21 n hag thereafter u die dtfld ii a ftE-time s)a(tastanflln|Me<fecad«>*lin<tituta«oavacatlMititertfrt»n. It is your responsibility to notify yog H0nianRcaTOnwPepsttBicnt<s5upervta)mnsn<flelcly of any tharjpe in yetr dependent!,
You MR he fhren an eppScadan form to complete end sign when yon became eli|(bls fa this fasunnoe, The IbUcoitof dde fjwpbsuranee plea if paid by your Company.
7*
S. LIFE INSURANCE
TOa amount of your Bfainunoce la ahown in die Sdteduli f [mured Benefiti. lathe mol of your death from any cauea your life fauunnee win ba paid to the toefldwy you bare named. You mq chanyo your benefleitry at any time width the Umht tot by why completion a form which may ba obtained firm your Human ReaouteeaDepirateol	'
The fbfl amount of your Hfletaiureace will baeoettaueddu ig any period for wbkh you am eligible to recelva Long TSraa MuMUty beneflti. If you become totai tad permanently dlubled your Long Tern DUabflity benefit* wfflcondnuoumflyowoaniulredremfl dot* at wlticb time your life inttirance win bereduecdtothaiaaeamnmltrfinmniKeailiprovided emptoyeawlw retire it the normal dam, u explilned la (a) below.
W^ you retire la acccrdinca with the pwvWonj of the C ipiny*i peuloa pUn, your life Inrunmce will be u follow*:
(a) Normal Retirement • the amount of your Ufa toeuriace	1 ba reduced to MAXI u of your data of normal retirement
(b)	Partial DiaahUlty Retirement (before age 65) . tba amoa of your lift buunace will ba reduced to $4,000 el of jam data of partial dlabfllty MlremanL
(c)	Special Barly Radremet* (before age 65) • if you have < lined the age rf 60 and have 30 or more yean of credited ecrvlcc onto the terma of die John Laban tailed Retirement Plan, the amount of yourHIfafauunmoewittbo reduced te $4000. Ofherwiieyi r lift faiunnce willeeaieaa ofyourdata of termination of aovlca wUh dn Company.
(d)	45-Polnt Retirement (before ego 63)-If yoo hive attain (ho mittimus) age ofSS. and your combined aga and yean ofmditGdtovioetoMl IS pninfit more under the term of the John Labatt Lbttlted Retirement Plan, the amount of your Mfolnaurenoe III bo reduced to $4000. Otherwiae, your Ufa lsiuranoa will caaaa aa of your dale of terminatioa of n Ice with the company.
Yoa may obtain is individital Ufa tnrttreaoa policy up to tin mount of lift (pauraaoawhfehl* cancelled wbco you retire or terminate aervice. Inaureneeiaavailabk Oder till* convereloo privilege evea dtough you are unable to pan a medical etuntinukm, but ttieprem nntawffl be baled on your attained aia at tbedataofcoAvanion. AppUcatkm&rtadMdutdlniurino anal bo made to the bonnneo company Within 31 day* of the data your group Iniurance la canceflK od during AU 51 day period your grtnip life tnimaoa la cooaideredaa (a affect without charge. You odxr inaorasce oovmgei cannot be conveited to Individual poHdea.
19
4. ACCIDENTAL DEATH k SiSMEMSBRMBNI INSURANCE
The amount ofyoor accident death uddianiettbenM I (ADAD)tarar*nco to thewn fa the Schedule of brand Benefiti. If, widijn 365 dtyt oftodulhereuHofia tccirtant, you tuffer toy of tin louci lined Mow, payment wfll be mad# at bdlened.
%r<y«Me	For Lott CIS
200%	Quidrlplefie, para; agl*, btmiplegli
100% Life, both handt, both feet tight o both eye*, one head and one toot, one hind or one foot and light ofooe eye, oh of bod bmdiorbotb feel, *p«cb and bearing la both eon
75% One aim or one leg. uioaf one rem neks.
6f 2#%One hand, one foot, tight of one 33l/3%Tbumb ud Index finger, four ft 2J*niiw fingtre os mo band, hearing 10 2/3%Tluimb ud oh fia|er of ant hi
■, gpeeeh, hearing In both can. too one band, pe car, «U toei of one foal twofingenofanehud.
Ypnr AD AD Jmanace fociudei coverage forfajuty tu bonding or (fighting ftoo, or being etnrek by aliceere crated by raJddo oi eeSf-deetraetion, war or aerrice ia oo» of or to (he come of ray ooeqpedoo or taofkynm
red while riding at ipaucngre fa or ao, (craft. Beatfln ate not paytbls fer any lou nred foroet of any country, or injury Hiring rung* or profit
Ia (be mot of you; death tbo AD&D inwrraca beaefi	I ho paid to On bcaeflolrey poo have aimed.
Tbiibcaefit it payable b addition to your life branna Jloieibenefla under (be ADAS huoranee are payable to the laanred penoa
Ycux ADADtoturancewfil be cancelled u of Iba data	retire or tenninati aervice with the
Company.
L WEEKLY INDEMNITY BENEFIT
If you become totally dliabled tad Art prmated frcm working due to t noa-eecupslionAl incident M « ateYnnii Dot covered by Worker* i CoatpenUdon, you wi II receive weekly Indemnity benefits provided you on under the un of a licensed pbyiiduu If disabilitycoramenoai dtvin| i period oflay-offyou vnE bo eligiblefor Weekly Indemnity benefit} fimthitteteyou are rectlled to work only if you have 10 or more yem Majority and you are recalled within » period of two weeks from the date of lay-off and you tn tout Iy dlutaled on that data.
IB amount ofywr weekly Indemnity benefit is7t>% of your baste weekly eansnji ran as of the date disability commence*. WbenapMrelcharigBin wage r»v takes effectuodu the terms of the labour agreement, the amoutofyour weekly Indemnity benefit from thaeffectivedate of suchchange willbc 7C% ofthe bale weekly rate to which you wouldbe ontitlalif you were itwork, Ifourwookly Indemnity benefit payments wiU be mthtced by Hi* amount of any disability payment* which you tro eligible toreeeiv t from the Cvada Pension Plan or any other jovemraeM source.
The benefit payment la baaed oa a 7 day week. Foi tsch day Cfabaenea for Which a benefit la payable
you wtlreceive owe seventh of the weekly benefit, E«m3u meptyable from the fint day of absence if dleabiliQrisehMtoaecUca^erftQmtfcefoiadidayofcUesbllityduetollliiBas, Payments condone ee loajsi you arodlnbkd, up toamajdoiuao/26 weeks foreecb period of disability. (Refat to Long Ten* DlaabtftytoiurfiwfabeMfto payable If disability continues fcr more than 26 v\*ete>
Wh*r* k k necessary for tn employeetobeva dental atrrgery, beaefta will be psysblecommenclni on the focrth dry foUowtflf tucb surgery sad will eoatlnuo up to a maximum of two weeks foe any such claim, but only on receipt of proper certiffcafioa by a dental oralaurgeon.
A disdnlity resulting from the same cause** a peevkwe disability will be treated as a confirmation of the disability union you hive completely recovered sod bays been back at work for at laail 14 days.
kburwsckly Indemnity insurance will becinc«U«d as of the data you retire or terminate aesvlee with the Company and your weddy Indemnity be« fits wi cease aa of that data.
II
«. LONG term disability benefit
Loaf ten* disability (LTD) benefit! btcons payable only after you have received weekly indemnity bewfiu for thB tni-tlmum period or when you have received Worker1! Omj'areit.icn payments fora
continuous period of 3d weeks.
t)urmg\h* flnt7l week! of LTD benefits, your benefit will bo payable weekly atdd-2/J* cf your basic weekly earning! rats in effect during that period. At tbs endof the foil 78 weeks, your LTD benefitwiQ be fired at 86-2/3% of your bade weekly eantags rata in effect in the 78th week cf the LTD benefit tfeemaftsr your LTD beoe/11 will be payable in sn equivalent monthly unoant tithe end or eaebnadh. Re example, if your earnings rate in 6e 78th week is$224S per hour:
(i)	your w«Uyeim!fljt rat* Is 40 x $2123	- S <90/00
(b)	your weekly LTD benefit in tha 10thweek
is 66-2/3% of$*90.00	-	393.33
(°>	theresfter your monthly LTD benefit is
4-1/3 x 8593.33	-	32,371.09
Your LTD benefit payments will be reduced by ray dlisbOlty payments you am eligible to receive front Worker1! Competuidofl, tvs Canada Pension Plan, or other government source.
Id order to qualify fat LTD be neflti you must be under the continuingcu* of a Hcenaed pbyalel so, and during tbs first 78 w tab cfLTD beaafits, be usable topetforat a regularjob available in the bargaining Bait; thereafter you must be unable to engage in any gitaiU occupetkm for ray enployer for which you am nrasoiiabfr qualified by trslafai. education or experience. Ifyou am again disabled due totbe same
m rattled ex use, your absence wi be treated u acontmuathn of disabilityunder the LTD benefit sales! you hive been beck atworkfor at lout eU moatbi.
Payment ofbcnefiti wfil require ivbmiMfou of luch appropriate medics? evidences! may be requeued by the barer from rime to time. You will be entitled tobasfit8during the mnHnatimrf disability as defined abovee-xceptthatin ao event willbcoefitt be paid beyond youraaratal retirement date, If you should elect to retire early, LTD benefits WilceiM u of your dateof early retirement. No benefitswil be payable for abtsncet due todli tbUldee cased by setf-infUctod injuries while mm or (runne, baaneodon, war, service ia the armed fences of any cocaTtry.cr pardclpttion ina riot, or during disabilities resulting 6fbo woridag f« another employer.
82
If you engage In rehabilitative employment, your LTD benefit will continue for up to24 norths but will UttduMitylJ* orwti»» you **ra from rchabiliiartvt employment. Ettr example. If you are recti ring a monthlyLTD benefit of $2^71.09 and you cant1,000 iirehibUUadve employment
on VI benefit	$2^71.09
*»	«* of «t/MW	7jQ.QQ
LTD si It	n	M21j09
I a log: fr it to empto;	1.000JO
Monthly incomeduriairebabiliMfoo	t2.tlll.00
Provided your empkytDeot with the Company tt not been 1	but white you we in receipt of LTD
benefit you til continue t be covered for	ther g it	iflb i referto tieLibatt
Retirement PUnseodoa of tide booklet for*	ztptk of tho pension credits which will accrue to you
vhileyou m disabled.
Your LTD insurance ill! cancelled aa tf the date you retire <r tetmnutt service with ti Company,
NOTE: You may net receive w*g« a o&er	u baab pay,	weekly
t) LTD orWolfcBrt Compensation orsinrtter * a&a mere than ons reef be sat
day or part day.
7. SEMI-PRIVATE HOSPITAL BENEFIT
Your provincial health plan (OHIP)provi(teibulc hospital benefits for you sad your family but generally limits benefits for room chngne to the amount payable for ward accommodation, Isiured benefit* am provided under tho Company's plan for you and yourcovoed dependents to supplement^ provincial plan benefit and provide payment for room charges up to icml-prlvit# accommodation in a licensed hospital. If hospitalised in a private room the benefit will bn limited to (hat which would have been paldforsend-private accommodation. These benefits apply In all confinements approved by a licensed physician except those covered by Waite'S Compensation.
Your (end-private hospital inrrxneo will be cancelled as of ttio (^yojretim or terminals service with theCompany except that
(a)	If you are totally dlaabled when your hmmaeaU cancelled, benefits wifi be extended for up to one yeir for expense* incurred durtag me eondnuaoee cf mat disability.
(b)	If ooo of your dependents la in hospital when your fcaurmco it canceled, benefits wd bo extendod fora mexlmum cfono year provided the dependent masks in hospitaL
(c)	if a dependent wife Is pregnant on foe date her insurance is ensiled, aha will bo entidedto semi-private hospital benefits up to the date cf childbirth ortmninatkm of pregnancy atif tie bnnrcnee wen stQI irforce.
& MAJOR MBDICAL EXPENSE BENEFIT
Basle medical benefits an provided for you and your family mater your provincial health plan (OH1P). The majornefBcal expeoM benefit under the Company's group insura nee pi an provide) benefit) for you wd yar covered dependent! for certain expenses notooverod by fie provincial hospital and medio*] plana Expenses allowed under tb* major medical expense benefit are listed below.
Benefits are pay able only if the acrvlces tie mccmmended by a physician and If provincial legislation does not prohibit hannneo of my such expense.
•	drug) and medicines disputed on the wiittso prescription of a physician. Reimbursement will be based cathscortofChcfenerioeijufrslenlofapresediKiondfxigiifauclianeqsilvalwitoxists. Youwiil receiveM reimbursement cf a bond urns drug only if a generic equi valentdoes not exist, or if your physician provide* specific bstmedonsprchibitingiubetimtlcii.
•	private duly mining by registered gndnate nones Who am not ordinarily resident inyar home and are notielatad to you or your dependants
•boepllileisawfr other than roan and board not paid by the provincial plan
•	oxygen and La administration -Wood and blood plasma
-rental ef wheel chair, hoqphtett.bed or leaptratot/veotllstor
•	splints, trance, braces, crutches, cuts
•	artificial limb* and eyes provided the low cf the asttml limber eye occurred while insuredunder this plan
•	eervioes cf duly qualified and Uctmed pbyslodteraplsu other than members cf die Injured'* family
-	local embed cnee ecrrloca
-	emergency transpoitjatlna by a Hcaacd ground mhnlincc, fackuting «lr ambnlanwi, to and from the warre l hospital i n which Sreatmanlcin bo provided (subject to oaeraitl trip per calendar ywr),
•	servica ein lkased ddn^nctor m osteopath when operating in their recognized iieldo f experdso (eligible only after provincial plan mailum baa been reached).
You an impaired to pay f» first $10 cf expenses Incurred la eadi calendar year, Thisiskncmuthe MedoedWe" and la applied to each ireucadperson, employee or dependent, except that the total dednctible tor all members of you- family will notbe more this $20 i n each cal endaryew. If expenses whichM faelmled jnshailediKtiUe occur within theleat Ibrea moeths ef the eelaadaryear the same expettesir^tapph'edaiiliJtthfldeshjctiblefortlienextcilendirjrear. Iftwn or oort insured members of your family sviiqjured i n a cqsiuiwb eeddent only cno dedvodbla will be applied against their semiring combined •xpmasa (nouned in ay one calendar yes.
Theunosotcf benefit payable b dsarmfaed u Mam:
(a)	ths charges am totalled for ill allowable expenses Incurred by the employee or dependent during the calendar year
(b)	Bom this total Dm deductibleta lubtraoted
(o)	lb* ma)ar medical expense benefit thenpy a 10016 oflbe remainder
M
The maximum total amount piyib!# for any individual)! 111,000per lifetime. However, after a person bea bean insured fore foil calendar year, up loS3,000 of lhaorigiwd benefit will barelnatatsd on Jimmy 2nd of eadiyoer but a! no time will the maximum exceed the original mount.
The majoraedical expiate benefit dots not cover periodic heel* check-ups and examinations, eye lefraodmu or fitting of gleaeea, dental aervicet, travel far heal*, expentei teeutring from is let of war* chargei for hospital ma ad board, hospital and medical expenses for tervicea covered by the provincial plan, axpaoaat fcinjciy or fitness covered by WoiWa Compensation Act. or any sendee for which u employee a dependent doea nothave to pay.
If when you retire you are entitled to group 1 i e fasuranca at explained in Section}, you and your eligible dependents wi 11 continue tobo lomred fam^fo* medical expense benefits. You will continue to be required to pay the tint $ 10 of txpeMat Incurred la each calendar year ai a “deductibie”tpplied to each Insured penan with (he total deductible for ill members ofyour family not to exceed Ufi In each calendar year, Ycu will then bemlmbuned far 80% of any cUgfbla expenses incurred after the date of your retirement in excett ofthe deductible. Hie maximum total amount payable forexpenses Incurred after your due of wriwaMl la AlCyOOO for each Individual member of your ftmBy.
If yea terminate service and do not qualify for retired benefiti your major medical Insurance will be cancelled u of the date on which your terries la terminated, except that foe f o 11 o w extended benefits are provided:
(ai	if you are totally disabled when your Insurance is cancelled, major medical benefits will be
extended f a up to one year, provided wch expenses are Incurred during the continuance of that disability
(b)	if one cf your dependents tai n hospital when your ieimoca it cancelled, benefit! w i 11 be
extended f aannxircLinofone year provided the dependent remains in the hospital
(e)	if a dependent wife is pregnant on the date her insurance is cancelled, benefits wil be payable
for treatment as a result of that pregnancy.
AS
9. DENTAL CAKE BENEFIT
Dentil cate beoetta m provided for you ino your eitjiMe dependenti autyect to 0* limitation and MClwkmf deecribed Mow.
EHjlbto ictvlcea are aD reasonable and coitomary dental sovicet which are recommended u Decenary aod performed fcy a qualified deotift or pfaydoini and tor which a lYeatmeiit PUn hai bees aulmltted to and approved by tbefoaumr before foe aervlnt an rendered. TbofllfaiofaTYeatment Plan ii not required If the total coat of (be prcpoaed woct i< lee* tbta S500 or If treatment la rendered in emergency ooodfflona. Bbytbkdafciilieivlo** are claatifledimder tinea awjorcattgorie*;
(a)	Bade Sendee* • mmLnftona and dcaning of teoth (coc* fa any aft-mouth period),
extraction, frIUsgi and other neceataqr treatment for the relief of dental pain.
(t>)	RotontivoSeivicei* crown and lalqratbrid|awoit,(Jcatanf» toot caul therapy
(endodonrfca), and tba truttaent of tiaiuca aod boon roppexting tbe teeth (perfodootica).
(c)	Orthodontia* proper flttfcj of natmal tooth and invention or correction of imfulaitilca of die
You wlB to rrimbureed for 100% of Am cart of eligible Basic Services Incurred by ywi or your alible dependent* ap to amvetaum for each inured penon of $700 Eo a calendar year. You willalaobe idatboncd tor75* of tire coat of RettontlTO Sarvtoee aod 30* of tire eoat of Orthodontia to a lifetime maximum benefit of $4,300 hr each fnnnad penon for Rnttmthw Soivkca and Orthodontia combdned. Ad annual reimtuement of up to JSOO will be provided tt the be^tnuhn af each calendar year, if required, to re tore the bfotbMmaxisnm to tin level of $4^00. At bo time will the maximum exceed tire original amoonL Benefit* win be paid oo tire bull of (be Uaacr of die actual fee charted or Hie amoral Hated fa to cartel Dentil Anodadcn Schedule of Pbei in the province In which you reaide. If optional procedure* am poatlbK benfla will be payable to eccortance with the procedure involving (he mil War fee.
Expense* incurred for (he replacement of denture* an eUftbl far benefits. except dui if the replacement it tor e denture far which benefits wen payibis < ruler (fait plan, benefit! far die replacement will be payable only If «t lull 3 years lave dip! nl since the placement ar replacement far which beaeflti wen paid. IiaddWoa, benefit* «payablef<’rebiiin|.r*Unlntorrepabinfof denture*. Benefits will not be paid tor the replacement of dec urei which bar* bees lost mlspleced or stolen.
Dental cm beaefita wnot payable for any sendee ditlblef r payment from another aotmesudiu provincial health htaunnet plant Worker's Compensation or tsvanwit plant, expensei (nomad principally for cosmetic pwpoaet, expend nmUai from an let of war, or any sendee for which an employee os dependent docs eat have to pay.
Y«r dental ear* bsunaoe will he cancelled at aftb data yo redrs or termiaatt service and claim* will not ba accepted far any sendee performed after the date < i which yoer insurance it cincdlod.
Id BOW TO CLAIM
V/fcen you or any of you dsrpewieets are notified to receive Ir undtenefta. ye* nbotdd Obtain da neceaamy claim forma from your line men*|er or health twvi ea department When you have completed (he employee's portico of (be claim farm you sbou 1 have your physician or dendit complete hi* section. Then send the caraplesed hospital, nsajc* medical or (Jemal farm to the Insurance oompmy and the completed weekly Indemnity or LTD foraa to (ba baa th ttnricet department In otder to qudift forpiyraenlofbeueflti.clalmi mast be lubmhtad within the me limit aetout below;
(a)	WEEKLY INDEMENIY BENEFIT - Claim owtb filed within 90 day* of commencement
of disability. In cane of Blneas benefit! will be paid iprevkwaly descried only tfyouaee a Ueenied phyikiin no later than the Ibttrth day of die Mlity and remain under flu doctorii care until yon tit able to return to work. If yoa do not so a doctor by the fourth day, your benefit* will (repayable only from da day on wttch yon fini rldt a doctor. Incaeeof aoddent,you must tea the doctor no later than the day following A a teoident in otder to qualify far benefits bon (ha that day; otherwise benefits will ha payable at if ths dlubfllty it due to illnaai, Diigaaili and prescription by telephone only data a t ooniduto a "viift" for this pvpeto.
<b)	LONG TERM DISABILITY BENEFIT *CUiBttui ba filed wlthtafi months Motrin* the
data from which LTD benefits become payable but d e earlier the better in order to avoid any
(c)	SEMI-PRIVATE HOSPITAL BENEFIT-Oaunnw it be filed wItMn 90 day* nfiie data of hospitalisation. Standard claim fame an cvallaUftt :tEho«p<tals. Benefit* will b* paid to you takes ytn complete 6a appropriate section of d la ftmi to assitn beaefitt to (ha boapitaL
(d)	MAJOR MEDICAL EXPENSB BBNEFTT- Gabo a nit be mbmltted no later than the and of. flu calendar year foEowki ha year la which fee exg mao waa bcuned except that, when your inaunmoa la caneeltad fix any maao*, proof of claim suit be submitted within 90 daya of &e dateoftamiinatieaofyowInMraaBa. Itemlfedbilli nd atatemetii »howln| f>a padeot'a oaae1datB>o#icrvieetpnacr|ptlaasuaifccn ferdruj Bxpenaaa Md tmotail of (hi ehifgrt) mist accompany die claim font verifying ail nidi ex teoici including those which yon have paid to satisfy tha deductible. U is suggested that ciu i claims not be tubohied until the total Mils exceed the deductible by at least $10.
87
Upon ntirmeot undei the Laiwtt retirement plan j n will cootbne.u bo covered for OHJPodtbo
GUARANTEEDWAGE PLAN
AGREEMENT between Labatt Ontario Breweries, Division of Labatt Brewing Company Limited (Metro Toronto Brewery) and the B.OJ ,W,U.
WHEREAS tb« Company hat antered into a Cotlectiv* Agreement with the above named Union covering
a bergainlog unit in Toronto.
AND WflEREAS the uld Pmtlea have agreed to oaks tbl« wpplementary Agreement which li to be a supplement to the laid Collective Agreement and any grievance* arising out of theidminUinticn of this supplement may bo dealt with under the Oriavenc* fVoceahm ofthe Oottecdve Agreement.
NOW THEREFORE the parties agree to the continuation of Die Guaranteed Wige Plan u bwxinAftcr act forth with suchcantinatfaitobecoineafhctirocnthelitday ofScplember, l994or onany later dele on which approval fe continuation ha* been received from the Federal Oovcrnmetn holding that
(a) The Plan meet* the requirement! of Employment and Immigration Canada with respect la Supplemental Unemployment Benefit Plans,
(b)	Payment* by the Company pnnuantto this Planwlll be dssssdaa dedtctihlecxpeneei for corporate income tnn purposes, and,
(c)	The receipt by employeesof the benefit! provided by thii Plan will not disqualify such employee* from receiving my part of the Unemployment Insurance Benefit* m vhich they would otherwise be entitled.
1. PURPOSE
The purpose ofthiaElanisto provides method of guanmeelng Income m certain enployeea who are laid
Off.
X	EUGIBILrnf TOR PARTICIPATION IN THE PLAN
Any regular hourly rated employee having at lent one year of seniority determined a of the September 1st Immediately preceding hla layoff shall be eligible toperbeipetabi title Flin.
Notwithstanding tha above, employees not classified a* regular employee* prior to March 21,1981 ■hall not be eligible to partidpaie la tbla Plan until September 1 at of the year following the employee'* attainment of three (3) yean of seniority.
I)
3.	EXCEPTIONS
13ifi Planhas no appifcadon to and provides no benefits for
M Employee! Who have been laid dffordbctplloary rations and l/svcb lay-off b questioned under the Grievance Procedure of he CoCective Agreement final disposition of any grimncewill detormiai the employee'! atatus under tbs Pita
(b)	Employee* who have been laidoflbecaoao of my strike, lockouulow-down, picketing or other actim by employees of ary other employee who are reprsaeoted for collective bargaining purpose* by (a&y 0f the Unionswtiiclj were party to Che Labatt Memorandum of Agreement which led to the renewal cf tbia Plan), or by any Local thereoforiuoeeaior Urtans thereto.
(c> Emptoyeea who havebeea tanninatedbacawe cf specific direction or decree from* Governmental authority which has the affect of curtafflng any cf thoCompany'i operettaos; eoltsa
(tyib# dfrecdon or decree ia the result of an illegal act committed by the Company crone ofita representatives, cr
(iiynwdbectfcm or decree purport! to cbsnge the method ofbcerdUuilwtigo or beer retailing within the Ibovlacecf Ontario* or
(d)	Employees who hive been bid off because cfaay ca of war cr the hostile act of any foreign power cr by sey set of sabotage or tasunecthn or by ay act of (fed.
(e)	Employees who are bid off and whobive imaged with the Company to taka a leave of absence without pay for a specific period in Hen of heir lay-off. These employees will be deemed to haveopfed out cf tbaPlin fix such period.
90
4.	DISQUALIFICATION FOR BENEFITS
An employee who hat been laidofTau/whowcuMofoerwIiebeeligibleforpartidpationirithePlan Ml not nceive any payment under lie Plea for any week:
(I) In YYWdihehai been on lay-ofTandhai failed toapply for U.I, benefit*, orinwhldihihai been disqualified or iUmntltled from UJ. booeflti by lay reaaon other than aarvtof a two (2) week waiting
period.
flj) In whkh he hu been on layoff and bu foiled to keep himtelf itfiitered foe employment with die CnadaM Centre ted » eh rich [latradcnli iiik dJQfiUibn	or
for reduction of Ui waiting period.
(U n hebo dt \ t» toaecept employment d aiti table for h i by die Unemployment Inaurtnce Committing.
(hr) In wUeb he haa felted to accept and report
for any A erode dfnm fat lea om annul working day	m excueedfor a
cauao.
(v) la
TenaDUaWilty lane
) Attar b faaabeoona entitled torecelve any petulon under foe Company or	I
»
) In retpact uf which h Iiqi	forcompenaatlon from the WorkeTa Co	Board for ny
if	jar Sine u.
91
S.	DEFINITIONS For thi purport of (bii Plan:
'Wages" shall mean actnal earnings for work performed and vacation pay. payment for any leave of able net with pay granted, eg jury duly, bereavement pay, paymeitfor Statutory Holidays and call-in pay.
"Week" shal I mean tie Company's payroll week.
'Compensated and available hows" means as applied to any particular week for as employee:
(a)	AO hoursworimdbytheemployeeforfoeCompanycrforanyrtbertmployerlasucbweek,plus
(b)	All hoursoo< worked by the employeSin such week but fix which he tecrfvea wages from any employer, ptui
(c)	All bourt scheduled in such week forantmployeo whois net on lay-off andwhkhhebsi not worked for any maonodter than lack of work, phie
(d)	All boon scheduled in such week feranemployes who is on lay-off and which be has not worked for My reason other tiwlaci ct work after being given raaeonebla notice acconUng to tbe established practice <£ tteCompany that iwh tcbcduled born were available to be worked by him.
"Week ef lay-off" oaanj a week In which theenployea'a compensated and available hawsm lent than
forty <40.
92
BENEFITS PROVIDED FOR LAID-OFFEMPLOYEES
Subject tothe term* and condition! cf the plan u herein Kt Old each eligible employee who is laid off from the baitalolai twit dull receive in wMItjonteaay wegee earned in the week « benefit (ham the Pita for each week of Lsy'-offcikuliled by detarmioiag the product ofilemi 1, 2 end 3 below tad deducting from *uch product the uncus I of(»m4.
1.	Seventy percent fa eligible •raployeoe tt hereinabove defined.
2.	The ttrtight time houriytitaef the employee in effect aiofthe time uflayoff.
3.	Thecaoesi of forty over the compensated and available hours of the eiployae,
4.	The actual benefit, if any, far which inch employee iieiigibleundertheUnemploymentlniuanu Act fix neb weak.
93
m.
7.	WELFARE8SNBITT9 DURING LAY-OFF
Anemployee who is laid c£E continues to partkipatein the Welfare Plan of the Company applicable to employees inht»Bargaining Unittotbo end of the month following the last month m whfch ho has worked in the Bargaining Unit,oruntJl tbeendofthe last month	which hahu drawnabenefit
under this Plan, whichever is the later. Welfare Plan for the purpose cf Ibii section doea not Include the Passion Plan or the Company's harmed Weekly Indemnity and LonjTorm Disability Plant which cover only indemnity for wages actually lost because of Illness Of accident.
An employesoalay-ofiwho pursuant torim above, bu eeasad to participate in the WelfarePtanis restmedtopsrtfctpatianfcnmediitely spoilcompletion ofeight (S) hours wnk lath* Bargaining Unit
S.	DURATION OV BENEFITS
Tho maximum benefit andflatneat of an employee stray tawahallintexceed that benefit amMIrhnri in accordance with Table "A". However, fho employee's actual benefit emblement will be less than the maximum benefit aoddraeat ifhe bat used ary haneflts and bu not rubseguenlly restored them.
Weeks (if benefits arereetoud based upon the formula cfl/lOth of a week for each eight (8) full hours during which the employee earned wipes 600 the Company up to the employee'i maximum benefit entitlement »et out iaTabk"A" blow. No eraUutcwsrdi future benefit end tkmontiaia allowed far wsgM earned daring any period fat which rfo employee !a already entitled to the maximum benefits setoutmTable'W
TABLE 'A'
SENIORITY*	BENEFIT**
13 yeen Of mom to yean or more 5 yean or more 4 y tin of more 3 year* or more
7* week* c« benefit* 65 week* of benefit* 51 week* of benefit* 45 weeki offaeneflu 35 weeks of benefit*
**	Madman benefit entitlement.
The mniama ttumber of week* of benefit* whloh *a employee may tnechrfnfany twin* (11) month period commencdnt September lit ihalloot exceed hit Maximum Benefit EntUlemeatdetetntnedu of that September lit b eccordutce witb Tkble "A* abore.
Each eVgtbte employed* week* of benefit* dull be decte**ed by one week for each week In reipeot of which be 1* on lay-off *od b receipt of benefit* (or man dun Ihlity-two (32) hour*; and by 4/5th* «f one week far tech woek Jo which be it OB Uy-off end la receipt of benefit* far more (hue twenty-fear (14) hoar*; end by 3/3tfu of one week (far each week in which be if on Uy-affand In raeelpt of benefit* for more this tixteeo (16} hourt; end by Itfduefonaweek for etch week b which he ii oo Uy-off end b receipt of benefit* for more then dght(8) hour*; and by l/5th of i week la which he i* on lay-off and b receipt of benefit* for eight (*) boon or leit; and hli week* of benefit* «h*H ilia be decteued by one week foe each week tawhlchheUonUy-ofrbuiwaidUtjnaHfledforartycfthereuonieetout in eubecctk** (1), (U), (ill) end 0v) of Section 4,
95
9.
DEDUCTIONS
Any ptyroentmadeiuekrthl* Planshallboeubjecttotty deduodon* rajmsdiy Fodertl, ProvinoUl m Municipal authority or by the provhlona cf the Collective Agreement, erfy vdintay authorisation from (hoaific^a concerned,
10.	APPLICATIONS
Employe** shall bo required t o observe mefc rule* nd fellow such procedure* end auto iuch report* andappUeadoot an shallbe prescribed bytb« Company afteroooeultitico whh tha linkm. Dm willful falalflcaritm efts y fed material to thodetenulnation cf an employee1* benefit right* under thoPlu shall remit In the forfeiture of sny benefit right* ho may have under the Plan for a poiod of twelve (12) mooflu»ab*c<p)ctdtoll«dlitioveiyofiuchfaltiflatko.«nd Ihfa ii*D rot preclude my other tfiidplmary action which may bo imposed eubject tc the Grievance Procr dure of tho Collective Agreement.
u.	axFornNQ
Tb* Company will make periodic report* to the Uuioa weekly while employee* are laid off and receiYinf benefit* nndw lb* Plan, ghrtng the Union complete fattooutioa a* to the number of employee* who have been hid eft ft* dantlcn thereof, ft* payment! wade to each individual under the Pita, the ember of ineligible and dlequalifitd employees, aad such other timilar information as may bo relevant
96
11	DURATION OF AGREEMENT
Thit Agreement shall continue until August 31, 1996. During negotiations for renewal of (he relevant Collective Agreement, the Union la free to request amendment! to this Agreement which shall also be p«t of such negotiations, but on the understanding that any amendments (otitis Agreement will not take effect any earlier than September 1,1996.
97
9#
I
S.B.WWfco«*
BmployM R«1itfoo» Mmttr
XalMioa Maufar
II
51 I
<39KS&
Labatt
Oeeeabar21,l$tl
Mi.CF^a
JtalChstaltt.
Local 304,
LibtMOxttrifi BrnwriM.
Mmto Tbrarto Brewery.
DurMr.FlyBn:
RcSfciamiBoacfki	'
Ah oaptoyeob oflfMU<y tot iieS Ay* * ni pmfelfMka la ih« Wodly tedoaolry *aJ Los* Tina &JnUll9 Pint r***nlninrel*wlyaptaM«Uyoffioil*idaitn*dupoahl*ittsU lo wait «nd taytortonofritbl (1) hraai walk ta A* Bnvrfniaa IMt
NotwMMiindlat lh» Aevo, ■* taployw whh Mo (IHw net* yen* •eotoriiy wfco k kid off, wMdo two (3) tort* ot Im, li MMbk » njuirt to wo* dot»ikkaaM or aoo-eceujudoMl (cddm, stall b* «D|tbto fe* parfdptrioa la A* Woddy bdtootqr tal Lmi|Torn Disability Float offoedvo tbe daw rf M* mill.
Yoon tally.
3.EWMUpaan Bmjloyoo Relation* Muter
FortholMoc:
C. Flynn
LA SAIT'S ONTARIO SRCWtAltS / DtvUkwi of Lobatt (rawing Company limited
*oa SOM, Si". *•'. SO OotowcaaftMO. tMMcefco, Onuule WON JN7 TekpMnO (410) >400731
Labatt
DwantwH. 19M
Mr. C, Flynn,
PtoChilnMn,
Local 301
Libttfi OMtrla Brewerta*,
M«ro Toronto Brewery
DorMr. Ftym
R* Mend RMbtcmoi
Stolid pontonry itltoMM * •(• tS b» oo tag* ytmttmi by Uw ta 6b pnnrlaM nd t mgotv tsptytt orataMi Jo tttpleymw beyond Bit nomd ictkanat data, ibt foDowfai coadUoM did inn net employoMtud W addtd w fkt CoCtetfvi Atmwrt,
1.	Tb« ftoilon to wUtD th« •ocplo)«*)u< beam* (added il id> norrul retfctrenold** (iha TMim") ik*U te bn*q m oC d» a^loyM) acnMl nteant dM m MM Ib A* halloa PUn.
2.	T3a uefkjtft rmlon i3tili become ptyible u of the Lit diy of da ranch homedJrety tottewto| At noto AMngfcpo cuts* to ta tnytaytd wife At Coapuy om of lb* Dm dqr of da reoclh banndUalj preetdtot dM r»pioyc*'» w«my&«(71) btntxUjr whfcbtnr iMl (btt occur (At Tmlca Dm").
1.	Hit ripleye*'! Puuiot wO iachxW »ny raaUliori bcocOka whk* occur ban toi Knit)
ittkcatti dilt lo Ut rtnltD Dn.
4.	No conlilbotlon to On Pratai FUo will b« rack oftcr B» ocnyloy »» bn ponchod to porranl
mlkfI— yl ftp&a ■hall ha mndlnul aAf Am athfmmfnfhmmA ilrtB
3.	AottOfiByto'iNaloowlHiiCtbttlltoodbyMyeiifaefioilotoDioPiralniiPliooRcAt H^kprtinuliidMMUfc
6.	Ax ■opfoyM'l rraslon bone/ik win bt ncfcarioBy reviowod ofhclivt a* U tfw pwnico DM
torfo* rtpri to At •nploytt’l Pterion bivtof btto doftmd tinea Ut aenul Mttanut cfatt.
lADAJTj ONTAao BDEWERIES / DMtlon of Ubttr Drawing Company limited <m JB4, Jut, /.-DO laHurn OoU. BWttk Ontario MtN JNJ TcUphota (410) I4t-CTJI
-2
7.	! m parpeiMofolculMioi « tninbnompension*uppba lbs 1 fa lit PlsnandOld
Age Security bene^.wiwrespplicsMe 'dll be Mm Into account l tbe)	aeOtaeithe
q a d dt
I.	An employee who continoes in the employ of the Campiny tlitt hit nareul retirement dst* is
1 du Pension Plan, dull be tattled to only die fawned weltoe benefits provided to employed on	t sssthii J di ill1
Youn vay truly,
S.B.Woihmum Employee Relations Msnijer
Bor die Union:
C Flynn
Dsto
Labalt
DeMotoH. 1911
Mr. CRjnm PfawChnlnnia toed 104
Llbttft OtaUito BMwnfe*
Mosolbraato BmNiy
DMtMfcFlyiK
1b 1b* tvta Am tt Ctaopuy locidoi la mAmo natpomi id Oh SMffas Dtpatamt, it to opood Out BiBpb9«w«k»k(M Im^cD^mmik	ia or f(tar»IWn«y 11.19U dMdl, aotalikiMDdiqi
my narUoM It 6* ColMov Kpmamt, to doottod la koll potor dopatontd unlartty Am *0 Aatt anpi^oM who ocqtitod dopramd icokrit? Ib St*(fe| *tor FrtWBjr V, 1919. TWo kaor aball apply fci * loei» 6o Ooiewigr Wwdww li i emponiy Cwapev feoiOty.
Youamly,
For An Union:
CHjna
IABA1TS ONTARIO MtWUKS / DMilon of loboit fcowlnj Company Limited ta SOU). fin. "A", ui lUHn loM, IwMutn. Onuitn MON )N7 hMphonn (4It) |4M)7SI
Labatt
DKtatedUM
Mr.cnm Plant Oilman.
Local 104,
Ltbatri Dnarfo BrcwstiM,
Metro Toronto Bi*w*ry.
Dear Mf. Ryan
** Liu Day RaqtteaU (Article 11.03)
It b agreed that wttployea nay mala raqueata fee Ueu diy*. u mtla	Article HALfoUawtaf mum
flo«VK*tto«. Sodir«*itoiaibaIlt» In wridA|aM provide allCMtl	<3)imkiaodcaof Aallautbqi
All c<h«T paovlaloea pttuiniaf to lien dayt ea ootllaxl In Article 210	uin in affect.
YmtnMly,
S.	E. Wuthmean Employee ItUoi Maujn
Par Aft Union:
C. Flynn
Data
lAdATTS ONTARIO tUWUtlK / DMalon et UbattjBrtwInf Company limited Boa BOBB, 9ne. “A". 911 animate* Bond. ttoBleolA Ortlaito Mpt JN7 fetapBene {4IA)14&OT9I
RtflPfl Ion Of Mutual Goa4
ZE emp loy eesof the M etro B re wer share in the Goal of being the absolute leader in cur industry. Our mission is to dell v the highest quality product in a safe, efficientar innovative manner, while at the same Imo being responsiveto customerand employees needs.
The achievement of the bfeto Brewerr Goal requires the combined efforts of the Company, Union and Employees. Tb rtfore, and subjectto all other clauses of this agreement, all employees’ (both barge ling unit and managerial) will:
A Meaningfully participate! the decisions which affect them;
B.	VExk within ttarcrewor workgroup and assume all tasks for which qualified;
C.	Willing todo any tadcwtal ;h they are capabteofperforming safely and responsibly;
D.	Vfadcin good faith tow:	he satisfactionof Internal and extemalcustomei
needs;
E Develop and maintain a
F, Promote efficiency, ecoi
0.	Support initiative, nar cooperation;
H. Communicate informati
1.	Assist in training other e
JT. TSte pride in their work
K.	Provide support for thosr or leamJ ng near processes
L.	Provide st^pporl for and, i understanding of the lndh
) level of technical skQl;
y, quality and continuous improvement;
9, trust, mutual lespect^quitabletreatment and
iromptly, accurately and completely; oycea;
I promote and adhere to the highest standards, mployeea who have difficulty adapting to change
implementingthe foregoing goals, have an lual and family needsof allemployees.
Eugene Zgritwi
Brewery Manager
Appi idlx *A*
Agreen nt between
Brewery, General and rofesiional Worker* Union (Toronto Brewery) and .ocal #1 (London Brewery) (hereinafter k ;wn as the Union) ind
LabattOn rio Breweries (hereinafter kne m as the Company)
Application:
This agreement applies to all those craploj ea hind under the designationof Regular On Grid Employeo (hereinafter known aiROt ). ThisROO document shall	all
language concerning Probationary Entplo] ea in die Collective Agreement.
Terms and Conditions of Em ploymeitt
Those individualsemployed as ROG empl yeea are entitled only to those benefits which are mandatory and non assignable under C lario legislation and those benefits which are specifically referred to in this text TbeR< 0 employee if not eligible for any other benefits under the collective agreement or lompany established prsetta. R&fcsunder the collective agreement are limited to tlio ) articles concerning wage rates and rilfWsifirRfim and discipline. Where there s conflict between the text of the collective agreement and this ROO Agreement, the I XI Ageement shall supercede any other provision. This language will replace alii rerence* to the Probationary Employee languages) the London and Toronto colie ive agreement*.
It is agreed that "worked hours" and "hour worked" shall include overtimehours worked and vacation days.
The Company shall, once a year meet with he Union to ditcuta the number of ROG employees that are currently employed an< whether an adjustment to luch number* la contemplated. However, It dull be the Cc ipeny'i unfettered right to act the appropriate level of ROG, regular and temporary empl yees.
A ROO who is laid off and who does nott jehre work for a period of six norths loses his/her recall rights. In the event that such i ROG it subsequently re-hired he/ahe shall not be credited with any days previously w iked for any purposes under the collective agreement.
ROG Employee Benefits:
During the first2080 worked hours of emj jyment
1| Th| rate of pay of a ROO shall be the ROO base rata vhich the parties agree shall be
2) A uniform issue e* provided to Regular employees and a $S5jOO per year safety boot allowance wi 11 be pro vided to the ROO employ eeafter the completion of the 1040 hours worked.
3)	Bereavement Leave and Jury Duty as outlined in U ody of the Collective Agreement.
4)	^catimand Statutory Holidays asper theOnUrio lployment Standard Act
5)	Pension shall be as per Ontario Pension Legislate
6) $11 ROO's am subject to the Rules of Conduct that	and may beestALiftedby the company.
After2080 worked hours:
1) The rate of pay of a ROO shall be the ROO base n	s $ 1.00 per hour.
2)	All plant holidays.
After the completion of4160 worked hours:
I) The rate of pay of the ROO shall be the ROO base	lus $2.00 per hour wetted.
Al\er thecompletionof6240 workedbourn
1) The rate ofpay of the ROO shall be the ROO base lus$3.00 per hour worked. After the completion of 8320 worked boors:
IJTheratacfpayoftheROGshallbetheROGbase plus$400 per hour worked.
2) The ROO employee is entitled to Life Insurances	,D,&D. m per the Group
Insuranceplan of the Collective Agreement.
After Le completion of 10/400 worked hours:
1) The rata of pay of the RO 0 dall be the ROO bas erato plus $5j00 per hour voted. After the completion of 12*480 worked hours:
1) The rate of pay of the ROO shall be the ROO base rate plus $6.00 per hour watted.
After the completionof 14,560 worked ourst
TheROO will become a regular employ) within the terms and conditionsof this Collective Agreement.
ROG Seniority/Recall and Departmental ines:
ROG'e will have seniority over each othi seniority Is limited strictly to layoff andi departmentin which they are hired and ( opportunities, TheROO is not guarantee by telephoneon start notice.
ii order of their hire cfe. Hus applicationof tall, ROG seniority applies only to the !■$ not aQwany cross departmentbumping any minimum w>rk week and may be recalled
Selecdan/tennlnarinn ROG employee
ROG employees will be selected by the' imp any and the resultscf such selection shall be conveyed to the uum so tiritapprcpi to arrangements can be made far their integraticn into the Urica.
The Company shall review the ROG era worked to determine suitability for contl suitable for further employment then he/ required levels of performance, Rules of and expectations of the Company. A ter period will be made as follows:
syee prior to the completion of1000 hours ied employment If a ROO is determined to be e will continue to be required to meet the ooduct, attendance standards and other rules in&tion at or prior to the 1000 hours worked
a) Ebrusritsbility • such termination is jn-discipllnary and shall be in the sole discretion of the Company. Examplesli tide but are not restricted to inability to performrequired work, inability tender* work with sufficientiegularity through no fault ofbl«/ber own,etc.
b) For just cause ■ such termination shall standardof causes* to whether the Com; manner orb bad faith. It is agreed bat i probationary employeefar allpurposes l Act and, In particular, sections 43,1 (1) s
e reviewableby an arbitratoragainstlhe ny has acted in an arbitrary or discriminatory 700 employee shall be regardadas a hiding for purposes of the Labour Relations 1(2).

Dated this
is f'T'^Kw of	JiA. 1 Etobicoke, Ontario
sa*e&
Ldbcrft


November 13,1993
Mr. J. Camera) Nelson,
President,
Brewery, General and Professional Wort Dear Mr. Nelson:
During negotiations, tbe Company and U Company's Amro production capacity re< discussions, tbe Company Is prepared to mutineer
Tbe Company will noteffccttbecb DeoemUr3l,199$ which is the to
During nagoiitlloits, there was also exto Ontario fleet The parte* agreed that the it becoming cost competitive with public
The Com pany agree* not tousepublic ci of such actkm would cause a current tea job.
The above commitment with respect to c
upon the following:
1.	Neither the Ihim or any driver wli Standard* Breach or the Ministry o
overtime pay,
2.	lo the event 0»ftlw Company is re or license taider any statute to entib and under the Collective Agreemei application if so requested.
Union.
n held diacQiilaM concerning the rauoms in Ontario. Aa a result of those vide the Union with the following
re of either Ontario brewery prior to >1 the present Collective Agreement
a discussion concerning the future or our rival of a Labatt fleet w>as dependent upon view.
»to deliver its products if the direct result ry driver to involuntarily loae Ida driving
noting out <£ transport work is (medicated
lea complaint with the Employment ansport concerning hours of work or
*d to fordeoideeto) apply for any permit
be fleet to operate under current ocrctLtions M Union will support the Company's
LA BAIT'S ONTARIO BRtWUUCS • Oh So» SON, Sii*. 'A .»rifttwnsi tevl, bus
-n ol Ubui C,«hvlng Company Limited >. Online MSN UO WltpXm (4>»i )4S«ni
3.	The Union, on behalf of its members,hereby grants the necessary consent required by Section 20 (3) of the Employment Standards Act Ontario.
It is understood that the Company'scommitmentcontained herein with respect to the existence of a Labatt transport fleet contained herein shall be nullified and of no effect if the enumerated conditions above are not met
As agreed, this letter forms part of tiecollccdve agreement For the Company:	Bor the Union
Memorandum of A; reenwntre: Extended Shifts
Between:
Ubilfa lotarlo Brewcrte* and
Brewery, Genera) an FroiMnulWoikn'Daln
Tim partlet hereto agree u follows:
1, Itingnod that the Company's product! a drminrti may make it expedient to work extended
schedule* different fran those set out ii the Collective Agreement, Notwithstanding Article 20 of the Toronto Collective Agreement end i rticie 19 of the London Afree meat, the parties agree that they may meet, neiodate and afree oa i tarrmtive shift schedule*.
7,
3.
4.
3.
6.
A companion schedule for deportments ither dun Packaging m y be developed by * department with the consent of departmental imkn epreeontadvea.
The parties father agree (hat should die e not be mutual agreement on ahernative shill sdmdd.es, the company m y Implement the follow ag shift arrangements by default,
Packaging and Aita Maintenance > 3 -12 hour ehifti per week
The shift schedule attached to the Mem random ii the default schedule by agreement of the ponies.
Pay far employees scheduled to woric t) eo (3) 12 hour ehlflt per week shall avenge 40 hours per week in each 4 week cycle. Any pay fa time not worked shall be treated attirne worked for purposes of (he Memorandum.
All work on a Saturday will he paid I	t die rate of douMetirae the regular hourly rate.
All work on a Sunday or plant holidi	id be paid f a at the rate of double time die regular hourly
rate.
No weekly (workover 40 hours) or d	overtime (work over 12) shall be payable under this
memorandum except that an employ*	tall bo paid weekly overtime at the sate of time and one-
half for bowi worked on weekdays (	idsy to ftddy inclusive) vfcitfc ire not plant holidays.
The Company wiQ provide a miotmu t two (2) weeks notice of ita intention t> node employees on any of these schedules or to retun	e conventional tight(8) hour shift schedule. Any
employee on a shift schedulecoverw	(heMatrorandun will be permitted tocomplete rry full
four(4) week cyclewtidihe basSta
Paid breaks foremployeesonscbedu covered by thisMemorsndum shall be asfollowi; Twelve hour shifts •onethln 0) minute lunch
15) minute breaks
- twofUfc
7. Rr those employees on a twetve (12) hou-ehlft schedule: thewsekiy Indemnity willingperiodu itperaln* to disability resulting ftoni ilcksesi iball be twenty-four(24) eonsecutiuelioun of loet time and payments shallbo baled on 70% of my itreigbt time hours lost toi maximum of forty (40)houia.
I.	Rrthose employees onatweh»(12)liourihJftie!ieduJe: Bereivemenileaveahgll be considered toeomnxnee on the eelacdarday immedtatelyfollowing the dale ofdtath. Anemployeewlllba compensated for up to ihlity six f36)houn pay for scheduled shifts missed which fall during the dm diyi Immediately following the dataofdeadi.
9.	Pay forafl plant holiday! toqualifyingemployesihallbe sight(S)hour* at the employee's straight ttma hourly rate. Where ao employe* will only receive thirty six (36) hours pay fora week in which a plant hotldiy occurs, he may request, tod the Company shall give consideration to lltowiag the employee to wock four (4) houra at his anight time rate to make up the lost pay.
10.	Por employees on either schedule, vacation payment shall bo mate on <k basis ofooe(l) hour straight time pay lor each hour of vacation taken to a maximum <f forty (40) houra per week. A wet ofvacadoo for all employees shall be forty (40) hours,
II.	Jury duty, Crown Whneaa pay and Union Education Leave shall be u per the Collective Agreement with tfaaundentaadlng that an employes may collect a maximum of eight (S) hours pay per day under these provisions.
An employee who qualifies for Jury Duty or Grows witness pay and who will only receive thirty six (35) hours pey for a work week win be afforded consideration for a four hour makeup opportunity on the same basis ee eet out In paragraph nine (9) above.
Sick pay for twelve (12) hour shifts edsied shall be dedwted from the employee's annual bade at
the ret* of 1.3 days for each twelve (12) hour absence,
Sudden Ulnesi pay (London 14.02 and ttroto 16.02) shall be limited to a maxknum of eight (8) hours per qualifying employee
tlriai BtatimLeave dull be paid at the rate of 1 .i dayi for each twelve (12) hourshift milled.
12.	Sift premntm shall be as follows:
Hx employees cm a (12) hour shift schedule
Any shift turtiag between 5:00 p.m. aniS:S91 o, ihaUbe conaidemd tobothe midnlghtahlft and shall receive ) l.00 per hour over the hourlyntofar «D hours worked.
Shift premium «h«ti not bo deemed tobe part of the regular rate of pay in the oaicul adooa of overtime, vacation pay. holiday pay or pay for my other time not worked.
13.	Repotting pay ahall be ai follow*:
Rr employees on a twelve (12) hour ihlft schedule; Any employee who report! for tack and who bat not been notified before quitting rime on the preyloui day not to report shall bo granted six (d) hours cf work or pay in lieu of work,
14.
Cell bask will be paid ee per the current Collective Agreepsent
15,	Ovartimadlitribwien shall bo»a per the Collective Agreement. (London Artick 19.14 and Torooto 20-09 an lrtcorponud herein).
If an employe* U scheduled to work at least (2)boun extra in addition toh is tegular shift, he shall be allowed an additional Hfteao(lS) minute rati period at tbebeguningoflbia period and evesy two (2) bom of tin worked thereafter,
16.	Tbots shall be do pyri!nidtc| of airy overtime or premium payment* under (hit agree meat
Rim to calculating arty overtimep»l at for hour* worked In ancon of forty or more to a week, tty botsa for which pentaa or wotima paym entis payable, ahaS fint bo deducted froothc total bow* worked. In addition. an employe* will not be paid to (bo nta of dm arJofl»*half or doubletirMfor hemhorwli
1?. The teraicf till Meraorandum»b»l rail over the bouu of workprovraoninlbe Collective
Agnenunltoteaventafcoaflkto aoa. Thia bfainranlm cooadtetoa the audio ifwatat between the parties concerning foui	wtk and overtime foremployMi working extended
ablfta.