COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
MOLSON BREWERY REDWOOD PLANT
AND
UNITED FOOD AND.COMMERCIAL WORKERS Local Union330W
June 1,1994 - June 1,1997
MOLSON UFCW CANADA COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT BETWEEN
MOLSON BREWERIES Redwood Plant AND
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS Local Union 330W JUNE 1,1994 -JUNE 1,1997
AGREEMENT
THIS AGREEMENT made and entered into the 4th day of February, 1994.
Between:
United Food and Commercial Workers Union,
Local 330W
(hereinafter called the “Union”)
— and —
Molson Brewery
Redwood Plant
(hereinafter called the “Company”)
1
INDEX
Article	Page
1	Bargaining Agent................................... 3
2	Definitions.........................................   3
3	Union Shop: Checkoff.................................4
4	Seniority..............................................5
5	Union Shop Committee...................................7
6	Sickness or	Disability, Hospitalization and I nsurance.8
7	Discharge or Suspension...............................15
8	Wearing Apparel - Safety..............................16
9	Hours of Work and Overtime............................17
10	Shift Premiums.........*.............................29
11	Plant Holidays........................................30
12	Vacation with Pay.....................................31
13	Union Label and Material..............................34
14	Grievance Procedure and	Arbitration................ 34
15	Welfare...............................................36
16	Schedule of Wages.....................................39
17	Cost of Living Allowance.............................
18	Terms of Agreement...................................^43
Guaranteed Wage Plan.................................45
Summary of the Pension	Plan.....................53
Health Benefits......................................66
Partnership Agreement...............................109
Letters of Understanding	and Intent.................110
Seniority Lists ....................................144
2
ARTICLE 1 BARGAINING AGENT
1.01	The Company hereby recognizes the Union as the sole Collective Bargaining agency for employees in the Winnipeg plant. It is understoodand agreed however, that this Agreement shall not apply to, nor include Brewmaster, Assistant Brewmaster, Chief
_ Engineer, Assistant Chief Engineer,Supervisor, and above the tank ' of Supervisor, Office Staff and Salesman.
1.02	New classifications and wages may be added to the Bargaining Unit from time to time when mutually agreed between the Parties.
1.03	Except for necessary instructions, no employee who is excluded from the bargaining unit shall perform any work coming within the bargaining unit. The Company will post a list a supervisory personnel who are classified as supervisors.
ARTICLE 2 DEFINITIONS
2.01	Temporary and Probationary Employees
New employees shall be considered probationary employees until they have been employed and have worked one hundred andthirty-two (132) working dayswithin any twelve (12) month period, Atthe end of the probationaryperiodsuch employee will be entered upon the seniority list in accordance with Article 5.02.
For those employees on a ten (10) or twelve (12) hour shift schedule, the probationary period will be a total of one thousand and fifty-six (1056) regular hours worked in a twelve (12) month period. Employees will become eligible for benefits after one thousand and fifty-six (1056) hours, in a twelve (12) month period.
2.02	Regular Employees
In addition to employees who are recognized as regular employees, an employee who has completed his probationary period by actually working one hundred and thirty-two (132) days , as provided above, shall be placed onthe seniority list inaccordancewith Article 4.02.
3
ARTICLE 3 UNION SHOP: CHECK OFF
3.01	Each member of the Bargaining Unit shall be a member in good standing of United Food and Commercial Workers; Local Union NO.330W.
3.02	TheUnionagreesthattheCompanyhasone hundredand thirty-two (132) working days within which to determine whether an employee is satisfactory to it.
Subject to the foregoing, the parties agree that any employee engaged by the Companytowork inthe BargainingUnit must make application for membership in the said local Union after having worked thirty (30) days and pay the regular initiation fees and regular dues, and will not be denied membership inthe said local Union without just cause.
3.03	Whenever an employee is suspended or expelled, the Unionwill givethe Company in writing the reasonsfor such action.
3.04	The Company shall, on receipt of written authorization in a form attached to this Agreement, deduct from each Union member's pay on the last pay day in each calendar month during thetermofthisAgreement.uniondues to the amount specified and will transmit the total of the sum deducted to the Secretary-Treasurerofthe Union within one (1) weekof said deduction. The above mentionedauthorizationshallnot be revocableduringthe life of this Agreement.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, which pertains to the payment of dues by established Union members, the Company agrees to deduct, inthe form of Unionduesfrom all other employees working within the Bargaining Unit, the then current amount specified per week regardless of the number of hours worked in the week, but not to exceed the regular employee's monthly dues.
The Union shall indemnify and keep harmless the Company from all claims made against it in respectofthe deduction of Union dues. The Company agrees to provide the Union Secretary-Treasurer
4
each month with a complete list of all employees,for whom deductions have been made.
ARTICLE 4 SENIORITY
4.01	Definition of Seniority
Seniority of an employee shall be defined as the elapsed time from the day the employee’s seniority date was established under 4.02. In the event that seniority is broken for any of the reasons set forth in Article 4.03, calculation of seniority shall date from the time the employee re-established seniority as set forth in Article 2.
4.02	Qualifications for Seniority
New employees shall be placed onthe seniority list after they have worked a total of one hundred and thirty-two (132) days, within a twelve (12) month period. On completion of this probationary periodan employee shall have his seniority dated back one hundred and thirty-two (132) working days from the date on which he completes his probation.
4.03	Seniority shall be considered broken by virtue of the following reasons:
(a)	If an employee quits the job voluntarily or ventures into
other permanent employment;
(b)	If an employee is discharged for cause not reversed by the grievance procedure;
(c)	If an employee fails to report for work within seven (7) days after receiving notice from the Company by registered mail to his last known address to do so, unless
. he has advised as to his being unable to report;
(d)	If the employee has not had employment with the Company for a period of twelve (12) months;
4.04	Seniority shall not be considered broken by virtue of:
5
(a)	Leave of absence granted by the Company provided such leave of absence does not exceed six (6) months and provided that employees granted leave of absence pay dues and assessments to local Union 330W in advanceforthe period of leave. The Company will notify the Union of ail leaves of absence granted.
(b)	Absence from work due to layoff for less than twelve (12) months, provided employees are availablefor work on being recalled in order of seniority.
(c)	Absence from work due to certified sickness or injury.
4.05	Posting of Seniority List
The Company shall maintain and post a seniority list on the plant bulletin boards within thirty (30) days from the date of this Agreement being signed. Such list shall contain only the names, the seniority and the posted positions of those employees working in the established Bargaining Unit.
The Company shall notify the Chairman of the Union Shop Committee of any changes in the seniority list.
The Union Shop Committee shall have the right to review any changes, deletions or errors in said lists up to thirty (30) days after posting.
4.06	Seniority Re: Choice of Vacations
Preferencesfor the choice of annual vacation periodsfor employees in the Bargaining Unit shall be governed by an employee's plant wide seniority within the department. Vacation listswill be posted.
4.07	Seniority Re: Layoff and Rehiring After Layoff
The Company will first layoff temporary and probationary employees before any regular employee is laid off.
Plant seniority shallapply inthe event of it becoming necessaryto reducestaff. Alllayoffsshallbemadeimpartlallyand in strict order of seniority, providedthat the senior employee is then willing and able to perform the work required of the employee. Rehiring after
6
layoff shall be in reverse order of layoff with the last employee laid off being the first employee rehired and so on.
4.08	Seniority Re: Promotion and Preferred Jobs
In the event that an opportunity for promotion or a preferred job occurs in the plant, notice of the open position shall be posted on the bulletin board for a period of five (5) working days. The classification,wages and hours of work for the job shall be given inthis noticeand all employees shall beentitledtoapply. The names of all applicants shall be posted.
The senior applicant shall be given preference and the employee selected shall be given a maximum of thirty (30) days trial period in order to qualifyfor the job. The employee selected to fill a posted job shall commence training on the same not laterthan twenty (20) working days from the date of selection. After thirty (30) days service on the job, the employee shall receive the top rate of pay for such job, providedthe employee has sufficient plant wide seniority to qualify in the wage schedule. During any time in the thirty (30) days trial period the employee shall have the right to return to employee's previously held job without prejudice.
PROVIDEDthat employees who are absent duringthe total period during which a job is postedshall have two (2)calendarweeksafter the expiry of the five (5) day job posting period in which to apply.
4.09	Any dispute arising over the question of an employee's qualifications to perform any job shall be dealt with under the grievance procedure outlined in this Agreement.
ARTICLE 5 UNION SHOP COMMITTEE
5.01	The Union members employed by the Company shall elect a Union Shop Committee of not more than six (6) members and this Committee shall hold monthly meetings with Management to discuss any local problems which may arise affecting the welfare of the employees. All Union Shop Meetings shall be held during the dayshift and shall notcontinue beyond4:00 p.m. of the day.
7
5.02	Minutes of Union Shop Committee meetings shall be taken and signed aithe following meeting by representativesof the Committeeand the Company. The Company will post a copy of the minutes, and a signed copy will be given to the Committee.
5.03	No member shall be discharged or discriminated against for his activities as a Union member. A member who works on a committee or under the instruction of the Union shall not lose his position or be discriminated against for so doing. Union activities other than those with Company approval shall not be carried on during working hours.
5.04	The Secretary of the Union shall notify the Company in writing of the personnel of; or any change in the Union Shop Committee.
ARTICLE 6 SICKNESS OR DISABILITY, HOSPITALIZATION AND INSURANCE
5.01	Sickness, disability or dental appointments resulting from an accident shall not be sufficient cause for discharge. Upon recovery the employee shall receive his/her former position or some other suitable job in his department jf held by an employee with less seniority, providingthe recovered employee iscapableof performingthe job inasatisfactorymanner.He/she will retain his/ her full seniority rights for all lost time. In the event of sickness, dental appointments or accident an employee shall make every reasonable effort to notify his/her supervisor. The employee shall notify his/her supervisor of his/her intention to return to work before quitting time of the work day prior to his return to work if possible.
6.02	The sick leave plan covers a regular employee who is absent from work because of sickness, dental appointment, or accident not covered by Workers Compensation. Sick leave benefits will be established as follows:
(i) Regular Employees are entitled to a maximum of sixty-four (64)hours of sick leave for each benefityear
(June 1 - May 31).
(il) Sick leave benefits cannot be carriedforward from one benefit year to the next.
(iii) During abenefityearthe unusedportion may beapplied to providefull pay incertaininstances by supplementing weekly indemnity for days lost as follows:
(a)	The first three (3)working days lost as the result of any one (1) non-occupational illness or injury;
(b)	The period of weekly indemnity payments resulting from sickness or non-occupational accidents in which cases sick pay is to be used to supplement weekly indemnity up to full pay.
(c)	An employee's maximum entitlement shall be reducedbythe hourly equivalent of his/her shift for each full or partial day's payment of sick leave, except where an employee becomesso ill that he/ she cannot complete his/her shift after reporting for work in good health, he/she will be sent home and heishe will be paid the balance of his/her regular shift hours by applying an equivalent number of sick leave hoursthereby reducing his/ her sick leave entitlement byone(l) hourforeach our or part hour payment madethereof.
(d)	Full pay for an em ployee shall mean the equivalent of his/her standard daily hours times his/her job rate of pay and the payment of Sick pay shall not result unaer any circumstances in any employee receiving more than a full day's pay or a full week's pay.
8.03	Employeesapplyingfor sick pay resultingfrom sickness, oraccidentof an anticipatedsnrt duration shalcompleteand sign a statement detailing pertinent matters relating to the Illness and absence.
9
o | c s i> berequiredto ha t C3 ( of disability at tl < ati of the Company, 'hs si if any.
n idi c vidence of an Illness or r result -in a Wi 11 I1 I r it n,
! f j day of absence \ J to t
s 3 as
h
must be for
shall assume It is understood 1 is anticipated i provided from t
Indemnity paymi	.
The Company may require certification also by a Doctor i its own choosi
6.04	tr |	3 shall not receive wages or o	i
such as ilid p j a ion pay weekly indemnity pay, longterm disability y, fi r Cr	p ay or tt li lili benefits
from more than one (1) source for the same or part k I! The Company will pay such : as may be o provide the f lliwini re If; I
ed,
S'
1.
:l II Each ( i
ll
(
Employee shall e d for 1,1994, the provisions with respect to life < c r i s actively-at work on la i shall beincisasr to i.OCC Eirploy a 1 ti lyat work i in the above named date shall ly t provided increased coverage upon ii i to active employ-m it.
Effective June 1,	9 , the p with | to life
ini n for employees actively at work on that date sh be increased to $41,000. Employees not actively at work on the above named date shall only b provided in ii	3 upon their return to active employ-
mt
Effec i 1996, the o with respect to life i i for k actively at work n ia di j shall be increasedto )00 Em Ii not actively at work on the above date si II t led ii i
10
coverage upon their return to active employment.
2.	Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance:
In addition to the life insurance coverage above, each Regular Employee shall be insured for $39,000 incase of accidental death or dismemberment.
Effective June 1,1994, the provisions with respect to accidental death and dismemberment for employees actively at work on that date shall be increased to $40,000. Employees not actively at work on the above named date shall be provided increased coverage upon their return to active employment.
Effective June 1,1995, the provisions with respect to accidental death and dismemberment for employees actively at work on that date shall be increased to $41,000. Employees not actively at work on the above named date shall be provided increased coverage upon their return to active employment.
Effective June 1,1996, the provisions with respect to accidental death and dismemberment for employees actively at work on that date shall be increased to $42,000. Employees not actively at work on the above named date shall only be provided increased coverage upon their return to active employment.
3.	Base Medical and Hospital benefits under the Manitoba Government Plan (The Manitoba Health Services Insurance Act).
4.	Supplemental benefits equivalent to Mediplus (Standard) and semi-private coverage underthe Hospital-Ambulance Plan of Manitoba Blue Cross.
5.	After Manitoba Health Services Commission annual chiropractic limits for chiropractic care are reached, the Company will provide chiropractic coverage for subsequent visits up to the Manitoba Health Services
1]
Commission's Fee Schedule in effect at the time the services are performed. * Maximum $150 per year.
6.	Non-contributoryDental Plan covering basicservice on a100% co-insurancebasis, majorservicesona75% coinsurance basis and orthodontic services on a 50% co-insurance basis.
Effective June 1,1994 the annual per person maximum for Basic Services shall be $1,000 per year with a combined lifetimemaximumlimit of $4,000 for restorative and orthodontic services.
7.	The Company agrees to provide an insured Weekly Indemnity and Long Term Disability Plan as follows:
INSURED WEEKLY INDEMNITY AND LONG TERM DISABILITY
In case of sickness or any non-occupational accident, a weekly benefitamountingto 70% of wages (hourly ratex40) in effect at any time during the twenty-six (26) week period will be paid to employees who are off work and under the care of a doctor. Payments will commence on the 4th"day, if disability is due to a non-compensible accident or sickness and will continue to a maximum of twenty-six (26) weeksforanyone period of disability. An insured Long Term Disability Plan will begin at the end of the twenty-six (26) week period or at the end of a continuous period of twenty-six (26) weeks during which an employee has received Workers' Compensation paymentsand continues until recovery or normal retirement date, whichever occurs first.
The Plan will provide payment of 66 2/3% of wages (hourly rate x40) in effect at anytimeduringthefirstseventyeight (78) weeks of the Long Term Plan. Following such period the payment will be 66 2/3% of wages (hourly rate x 40) in effect at the end of the said seventy eight (78) week period. The Long Term Disability Plan and the Weekly IndemnityPlan will be of a standard
12
nature which will include an offset clause for integrating statutory payments such as Canada Pension Plan and Unemployment Insurance, etc., and in the case of LongTerm Disability,will include an offset clause for integrating Workers' Compensation.
The Company is prepared to provide the necessary monies to build upthe pensionof persons receiving benefits from the insured Long Term Disability Plan, at the rate of pension accrual in effect ai the commencement of disability and will continue other applicableinsured welfare plan benefitsat the level in effect at the commencement of disability.
Commencingafterthe twenty sixth (26th) weekand until one hundred and four (104) weeksfromthe date of disability, the eligibility for continuance of the coverage shall be the inability to doaregular job available inthe Bargaining Unit. Starting at the one hundred and fifth (105th) week, eligibility for benefitswill depend on the employee’s ability to perform duties at any job for any employer for which he/she is reasonably qualified by training, education or experience.
During the first one hundred and four (104) weeks of benefits provided herein, employees shall be paid weekly and thereafter monthly.
Welfare Benefits for Pensioners
All benefitsgranted to employees who retired prior to the date of signing of the Agreement are governed by the Agreement in force on the date they retire.
The following benefitswill be provided to pensioners who retire after the date of signing of the Agreement, at no cost to the pensioners:
A.	On Normal Retirement or Special Early Retirement
(i)	Life Insurance to continue at $4,000.
(ii)	Base hospital, medical and surgical benefits will be continued in a Provincial Pian as long as the pensioner is resident in a province of Canada.
13
(iii)	Supplemental Benefits equivalentto the Medi-Plus (standard) and semi-private coverage under the Hospital Ambulance Plan of the Manitoba Blue Cross if the pensioner resides in Manitoba. If the pensioner resides in another province in Canada, he/she will be enrolled in the comparable supplemental health plan..
B.	On Partial Disability Retirement
(i)	Life Insurance will be continued in the full amount of insurance in force immediately before retirement to age 65, then reduced to $4,000.
(ii)	Base hospital, medical and surgical benefits will be continued in a Provincial plan as long as the pensioner is resident in a province of Canada.
(iii)	Supplemental Benefits equivalent to the Medi-Plus (standard) and semi-private coverage under the Hospital Ambulance Plan of the Manitoba Blue Cross if the pensioner resides in Manitoba. If the pensioner resides in another province in Canada, he/she will be enrolled in the comparable supplemental health plan.
C.	Voluntary Early Retirement:
Employees Qer age 60 or over who select voluntary early retirementshall have welfare benefits continued in line with benefits of an employee retiring normally, providing they have removed themselves from the permanent work force.
6.05	Deferred Retirement Group Insurance Pian
An employee who co ntinuesintheernploy of the Company after his/ her normal retirement date as defined in the Pension Plan shall be entitled to only the insuredwelfare benefits providedto employees on retirement as at his/her normal retirement date.
14
ARTICLE 7 DISCHARGE OR SUSPENSION
7.01	Only the manager or supervisory employees as designated by the Management shall have the authority to discharge or suspend any employee.
The reason for the discharge or suspension shall be given to the employee and the Union Shop Steward at the time of discharge or suspension and shall be in writing ,and in either case the Union Shop Committee shall be entitled to investigatesuch discharge or suspension. No employee will bedischarged or suspended without just cause. The employeedischargedorsuspended shall beentitled to a hearing if he/she so desires.
In the case of a reprimand involving a visit to a supervisor's office, the employee shall have in attendance a member of the Shop Committee.
7.02	Any employee discharged or suspended upon grounds which, after investigation by the Union Shop Committee and Management and/or a Board of Arbitration, are found to be insufficientshall be reinstated into higherformer job, retain higher full seniority rights and shall receive the pay he/she would have received if he/she had not been discharged or suspended, unless the Arbitration Board rules otherwise.
7.03	If any employee inthis Bargaining Unit encountersa legal picket line in the course of higher normal duties, there shall bean immediate conference between the parties hereto before any decision is made by either party as to whetherthe picket line should or should not be respected.
7.04	In the imposition of discipline, prior disciplinary written warnings or reprimands on the same or a related offence will not be referred to after twelve (12) months from the date of issuance of such discipline, and prior suspensions on the same or related offencewill not be referredto after thirty (30) months from the date of issuance.
15
ARTICLE 8 WEARING APPAREL- SAFETY
8.01	Employees shall be required to wear their Company supplied uniforms except in such cases where an employee can present just cause to the contrary. Rubber and duck aprons and rubber boots, goggles, masks, rubber gloves, rubber suits and safety shoes shall be supplied to all employees when and where necessary. Wien safety shoes are not provided by the Company, the Companywill supply safety to all regularemployeesupto cost of $75.00 on a replacement basis. As a condition of employment, temporary employees shall be requiredto supply their own safety shoes. Upon completion of the probation periodsuch employees shall be reimbursedfor safety shoes in accordance with the above provision. Work clothes shall be issued to all employees on the basis of three (3) sets peryear without any cost to the employee. These uniforms shall be ordered by April 15 of each calendaryear. Maintenanceemployeesshall receive four (4) sets of work clothes if required. All clothing issued to the employees of the Company shall carry a bona fide Union label.
Safety glasses with prescription Hardex lenses and industrial frames ofanapprovedtypewill be provided-as prescribed,free of charge to employees who require them, upon presentation of an invoice.
8.02	No employee shall be required to undertake any job which may endanger higher health without appropriate protective clothing or device.
8.03	Any employee undertaking any job requiring safety equipment and not using equipment available may be subject to discipline.
8.04	It is agreed that every effort will be made to provide for at least one (1) qualified first aid person being available on each shift.
8.05	Lunchroomswill bekept in a clean and sanitarycondition at all times. The Company will provideto such employees engaged
16
in work causing extraordinary physical dirtiness, as mutually agreed with the Shop Committee, a five (5) minute wash uptime.
8.06	The Company will pay license fees for Engineers and Electricians when their employment requires it. ARTICLE 9 HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
9.01 The purpose of this article is to define the workday and workweek.
(a)	Conventional Eight Hour Shift Schedule;
The workweek shall be defined as five (5) consecutive workdays, commencing Monday. Eight and a half (81/ 2) consecutive hours, including a thirty (30) minute unpaid lunch period, shall constitute a day's work.
The operation, or certain sections, will operate with one (1), two (2)orthree (3) consecutive eight and a half (8 1/2) hour shifts as required. If two or three shifts are required, a shift rotation schedule which results in employee rotating between the two orthree shifts will be established.
(b)	Compressed Work Week
The work week shall be defined as four (4) consecutive workdays. Ten and a half (10 1/2) consecutive hours including athirty (30) minute unpaid lunch period, shall constitute a day's work.
The operation, or certain sections, will operate with one (1), or two (2) consecutive ten anda half (10 112) hour shifts as required. If two (2) ten and a half (101/2) shifts are required, a shift rotation schedule which results in employees rotating between the two shifts will be established.
(c)	Continuous Operation (Continental Shift):
The Company may implement a continuous operation schedule covering seven (7) consecutive twenty-four
17
(24) hour workdays. Each workday may be made up of either eight (8) hour or twelve (12) hour shifts in any work group or groups as follows:
(a)	ContinuousOperatlng Eight (8)HourShiftSched-ule:
Days of work and off days shall be determined by the Company, Union and employees for each department in which a continuous eight (8) hour shift schedule is implemented. The workday shall consist of three consecutive eight (8) hour shifts. Eight (8) consecutive hours including a thirty (30) minute paid lunch period, shall constitute a day's work.
(b)	Continuous Operating Twelve (12) Hour Shift Schedule:
The workday shall consist of two (2) consecutive twelve (12) hour shifts beginning at 8:00 a.m. Twelve (12) consecutive hours, including a thirty (30) minute paid lunch, shall constitute a day's work.
For each department in which a continuous operating twelve (12) hour shift schedule is implemented, the Company, Union and employees will be afforded the opportunity to develop a shift schedule which is mutually preferred provided such sift schedule does not increase operating costs or reduce efficiencies relative to the following 'default" shift schedule.
In absence of an alternative schedule developed by the Company, Unionand employees, the following "default' shift schedule, entitled 'Every Other Weekend Off (EOWEO), will be implemented, four (4) scheduling groups shall be designated. The scheduling groups shall be defined as A,B,C, and 0.
18
The following rotation schedule shall be established for these four scheduling groups:
EOWEO
Full Cycle 4 Weeks
14 Shiftsx 12 Hours = 168 Hours / 4 Weeks +42 Hours/week MTWTFSS MTWTFSS MTWTFSS MTWTFSS
A
B
C
D
DD
DD
DDD
DD
NN DDD NN DD NNN DDD NN DD NNN DD \l	DD NNN DD	NN DDD
THE 2—2—3 SHIFT SCHEDULE
9.02 All employees should be granted two (2) breaks of fifteen (15) minutes each per day, one in the first half of the shift and one in the second half of the shift.
9.03	(a) Overtime shall be paid as follows:
For employees on a Conventional Eight (8) hour Shift Schedule:
Time and one half (11/2) forall hours worked over eight (8) but less then ten (10) hours in any workday, and double time for all hours in excess of ten (10) hours in any workday and for all hours worked on Saturday, Sunday or on a Plant Holiday plus eight (8) hours straight time holiday pay at his/her regular rate.
For Employees on a Continental Eight (8) Hour Shift Schedule:
Time and one half (11/2) forall hours worked over
19
eight (8) but less than ten (10) hours in any workday, and double time forall hours worked on a scheduled day off, or on a Plant Holiday pluseight (8) hours straight time holiday pay at his/her regular rate.
For Employees on a Ten (10) Hour Compressed Work Week Shift Schedule:
Doubletime (2) for all hours worked over ten (10) in any workday, and all hours worked on a scheduled day off, or on a Plant Holiday plus eight (8) hours straight time holiday pay at his/her regular rate.
For Employees on a Continental Twelve (12) Hour Shift Schedule:
Double time (2) for all hours worked over twelve (12) in any workday, for all hours worked on a scheduled day off, and for all hours worked on a Plant Holiday plus eight (8) hours straight time holiday pay at his/her regular rate.
(b)	Employees shall be entitled to an additional fifteen (15) minutebreakforeachoftwo (2) hour period of overtime worked. If overtime is likelyto exceed one (1) hourthe break shall be taken before overtime commences.
9.04	Hours of Rest Between Shifts Except as providedfor Engineers who may be required to double back on the same day while changing shifts, all employees shall receive a minimum of eight (8) hours rest between shifts. In the eventthat lessthan eight (8) hours isallowedto an employee,such employee dial be paid time and one half for all hours worked up to the time when he/she would have normally received eight (8) hours rest. This does not apply when the variation is requested by the employee affected.
20
9.05	Pay lor All Overtime Hours
All overtime shall be paidfor and shall not be absorbed by giving the time off, nor shall any employee be requiredto absorb time lost by layoff by working any other day of the week.
9.06	(i) Reporting Pay:
For employees on an eight (8) hour shift schedule:
An employee who reports for work and who has not been notified notto workshall begranted four (4) hours of work or pay in lieu of work.
For employees on a ten (10) hour shift schedule: Any employee who reports for work and who has not been notified notto workshall begranted five (5) hours of work or pay in lieu of work.
For employees on a twelve (12) hour shift schedule: Any employee who reports for work and who has not been notified not to workshall be granted six (6) hours of work or pay in lieu of work.
(ii)	Call-Back
When an employee is called back after he/she has completed his/her shift for a specific job, and as such makes an additionaltrip to the Brewery, he/she will be paidforthetimeworkedattheappropriateovertime rate subjectto a minimum payment of four (4) hours at such overtime rate for each call back.
(iii)	Emergency Call-In Pay:
Any employee who is especially called into work on an emergency at any time outside of his/her normal working hours shall be free to leave the job when the emergency is over, but shall nevertheless receive a minimum of four (4) hours pay at double time (2). Transportation of said employee back and forth to work shall be provided by the Company, if required.
21
For matters of interpretation with respectto the meaning of the term 'emergency”, reference can be made to ManitobaEmploymentStandardsAct, Part111,34 (1). (iv) Overtime Prior to Commencementof Regular Shift:
Any employee who is called into work within one (1) hour preceding the commencementof his/her regular shift is entitled to an overtime payment at the appropriate rateforthe time worked priorto commencement of his/her regular shift.
9.07	The Company will provide three (3) weeks notice of its intention to initiatethe continuous operation schedule or returnto aconventionaleight hour shift schedule or compressedworkweek.
9.08	There shall be no pyramiding of overtime, reporting pay, or call-back pay. Specifically, any premiums paid will not be used for calculating overtime adjustment in relation to daily or weekly hours worked.
9.09	Plant Holidays Falling in a Calendar Week
Forthose employees on a five (5) day eight hour shift schedule (conventional)orfour (4) day ten hourshift schedule (compressed work week), when a Plant Holiday falls during a calendar week, then the employee's work week for that week shall be reduced by eight (8) hours for each such holiday and overtime rates shall be paid for all hours worked in excess of the reduced work week.
9.10	Work Stabilization
The Company will endeavour to provide full employment for all regular employees. Any maintenance or painting work which can bedonetothe satisfaction of the Company by employees who are laid off will be offered to employees with seniority, who are laid off, at the rate of wages not less than the classificationof Bottleshop (general), so long as they do not displace employees from their regular jobs. Extra shifts will not be used for the purpose of reducing the regular work week of regular employees.
22
9.11	Technological Change
.01 In the event that, during the collective agreement, the Company plans to introduce a major technological change which it anticipates will directly result in the indefinite layoff of ten (10) or more regular employees, the following shall apply:
(a)	The Company will give the union notice of such Technological Change at least sixty (60) days before the date on which the technological change is to be effected. After giving notice, the Company shall identify by job classification, the number of jobs to be displaced.The jobs to be displaced shall be grouped by the Company for the purpose of paragraph (c) herein.
(b)	The Companywill meet and discusswith the Union the redeployment of the affected regular employees in accordance with provisions of the collective agreementas set out in the GuaranteedWage Plan (GWP); and, in SO doing, shall designate the employees to be indefinitely laid off.
(c)	During the firstthirty (30) days of the notice period and prior to effecting any layoffs or separations under the collective agreement, the Company shall canvass employees eligible for special early retirement ("eligible employees") as to their willingness to elect special early retirement. Such eligible employees shall be approached within each group determined in paragraph (a) in order of seniority and, if they choose to take special early retirement within the above thirty (30) days thereafter, will receiveaTechnological Change Bonus (TCB). The TCB will be determined by dividing the total amount of the separation pay entitlement of all the employees designatedfor indefinite layoff in par-
23
agraph (b) above, by the total number of employees so designated. The number of special early retires in any group who may receive the TCB will not exceed the number of jobs inthat group which areto be permanentlydisplaced by the technological change and, if a greater number of eligible employees in any group so elect to take special early retirement, the TCB will only be paid to the most senior of them.
9.11.02	If:
(a)	the number of eligible employees in any group who elect to take special early retirement is less than the number of jobs in that group to be permanently displaced by the technological change, or,
(b)	the Company did notanticipatethenumber of layoffs by the introduction of the major technological change actually directly resultsinthe indefinite layoff of ten (10) or more regular employees,
the following provisions shall apply:
(i)	the employees ultimately designated to indefinite layoff hereunder will be permitted to elect separation and to terminate from the Company priorto theirscheduled date of layoff. Those employees so electing and terminating from the Company shall be entitled to receive the amount of separation payment calculated in accordance with Section
9.12.03	hereof. If any of those employees were classified as probationary or regular employees priorto July 15,1988, their separation payment calculation shall include an additional One thousand dollars ($1,000);
(ii)	those employees designated for indefinite layoff
hereunder who do not elect to terminate from the Company pursuant to the provisions of the
24
preceding paragraph, and who are eligible for participation in the Guaranteed Wage Plan, shall receive the benefits provided for under that plan. In addition such employees shall receive an additional eight (8) weeks of benefit entitlement under that plan, subject to the following conditions;
(a)	an employee may use the additional eight (8) weeks of entitlementonly once during his/her employment, and notwithstanding Section 8 of the Plan, the eight (E)weeks can never be restored;
(b)	the additional eight (8) weeks of entitlement shall be the first weeks used.
9.11.03	In consideration of the foregoing provisions that are intended to assist employees affected by technological change to adjust to the effects of technological change the parties hereby agree that Sections 83, 84 and 85 of The I abnur RelationsAct do not apply during the term of the Agreement to the Company and the Union.
9.12	Separation Pay
.01 A regular employee shall be entitled to separation pay as set out in subsection.03 providedhe/ she has not been excluded by subsection .01 and provided he/she meets any of the following eligibility provisions:
(a)	if he/she is terminated for a reason other than set out in subsection .02;
(b)	if he/she is laid off and on any date during his/her layoff the hours scheduled for him during the previoustwelve(12) consecutive months were less than fifty percent (50%) of normal full time hours provided he/she is not eligible for any Company or Government pension or for benefits under the Company's insured Weekly Indemnity or Long
25
Term Disability Plans;
(c)	in special cases where a laid off employee appears to nave little prospect of recall to regular work within a period of six months he/she may request immediate termination and separation pay, and with the concurrence of the Company and the Union this may be granted notwithstanding the eligibility clause in (b) above;
(d)	if he is ultimately designated for indefinite lay <£ as a result of a major tech nologicai change as provided in Section 9.11.02;
An employee eligible for a separation payment hereunder must apply for it not later than six months after he/she first becomeseligibletherefore, otherwise his/her right to such payment shall be cancelled.
Notwithstanding the above if the Company permanently discontinues an operation, an employee laid <&. as a resultthereof must apply for and shall receive any separation pay- to which he/she is entitled without waiting the six month’s period.
.02 Notwithstanding subsection .01, an employee shall be
excluded from separation pay eligibility if;
(a)	he/she quits;
(b)	he/she is terminated for just cause;
(c)	he/sheisterminatedundersubsection4.03(lossof seniority provision) of this collective agreement:
(d)	he/she has been terminated because of specific direction or decree from any Government authority which hastheeffectofcurtailing any of the Company’s operations: unless
(i)	thedirectionor decree isthe result of an illegal act committed by the Company or one of its
26
representatives, or
(ii)	the direction or decree purports to change the method of beer retailing within the Province;
(e)	he/she has been laid off because of any act <f war orthe hostileactof anyforeign power or by any act of sabotage or insurrection or by any act of God;
(f)	he/she is laid off and has arranged with the Company to take leave of absence without pay for a specific period in lieu of his layoff;
(g)	he/she is in receipt of income replacement benefits underthe Weekly Indemnity or Long Term Disability Plans or the Worker’s Compensation Act,
(h)	he/she is entitled to receive any pension underthe Company or Government Pension Plan.
,03 The amount of the separation payment of an eligible
employee shall be equal to:
(a)	one week's base earnings (computed on the basis of his/her hourly rate in effect as of time of layoff) multiplied by the number cf his/her completed years of seniority (as usedfor vacation entitlement) as of the last day actively worked in the Bargaining Unit, plus
(b)	for employees classified as probationaryor regular employees prior to July 15, 1988, an additional Three Hundredand Seventy-five Dollars ($375.00) multiplied by his/her completed years of seniority used in (a) above to a maximum cf 15 years. However, such eligible employee who applies for separation pay at the time ha'she first becomes eligible therefore shall have his/her separation pay underthis part (b) calculatedas Seven Hundredand Fifty Dollars ($750.00) multiplied by his/her completed years of seniority used in (a) above to a
27
maximum of 15 years. If there is a permanent closure of a brewery the 15 year maximum is replacedwith a 22 year maximum,
.04 The Company shall be authorized to deduct from any separation pay payable to an employee hereunder the amount of any Guaranteed Wage Plan payment made to such employee which the employee was not entitled to receive.
.05 If an employee applies for and accepts a separation payment hereunder, his/her employment isterminated and his seniority and other rights underthe Collective Agreement are cancelled.
9.13	a) The Company will supply adequate manpower on all operations in all departments at all times so that an employee will not be required to perform more than a fair day's work.
b)	Clause (a) shall not be construed to mean that the manningof all operations is at present exactly adequate or that all employees are presently assigned exactly a fair day's work, and accordingly changes in the manning of crewsand changes in an employee's work load may be made so long as the resulting situation is not a violation of Clause (a).
c)	Before selecting employees for training on other jobs, the Company will post the training job for a period of three (3) working days. With qualification for the training job being given full and primary consideration, employees having the greater seniority will be given preference. Notwithstanding he foregoing, the Company may temporarily assign any employees to any job.
d)	Employees will be eligible for refund of tuition costs including prescribed textbooks of education courses provided that:
i)	The course is given by a recognized school and is
28
approved by the Manager as a contribution to the development of the employee;
ii)	The course is likely to contribute to the employee's performanceor advancement within the Company;
iii)	The employee offers proof of successful completion of the course;
iv)	The maximum refund to any employee in any one calendar year will be $200.00 for any full term course, and $100.00 for any half term course.
e)	The Guaranteed Wage Plan, which is a supplement to this agreement, is intended to provide assistance for certain employees who are laid off as a result of the application of the lay-off provisions of this Agreement and is not to be construed as authorization to alter existing lay-off practice.
ARTICLE 10 SHIFT PREMIUMS
10.01	Any shift commencing at or after 6:00 a.m and before 10:00 a.m. shall be considered the morning shift, and any shift commencing at or after 10:00 a.m. and before 5:00 p.m. shall be considered as the afternoon shift, and any shift commencingat or after 5:00 p.m. and before 6:00 a.m. shall be considered the midnight shift.
10.02	Effective June 1, 1994 all employees shall receive a premium of 65 cents per hourfor actual hours worked between the hours of 4:00 p.m. and 12 midnight. Effective June 1, 1996 all employees shall receive a premium of 70 cents per hourfor actual hours worked between the hours of 4:00 p.m. and 12 midnight. Effective June 1, 1994 all employees shall receive a premium of $1.05 per hour for actual hours worked between 12 midnight and 8:00 a.m.
Effective June 1, 1996 all employees shall receive a
29
premium of $1.10 per hour for actual hours worked between 12 midnight and 8:00 am.
ARTICLE 11 PLANT HOLIDAYS
11.01	The Company will observe the following Plant holidays:
and any Governments.
New Year's Day Good Friday Easter Monday Victoria Day Canada Day Civic Holiday other holiday declared by the
Labour Day Thanksgiving Day Remembrance Day Christmas Day Boxing Day
Provincial or Federal
If any of the said holidays should fall on a Sunday, they will be observed on the following Monday. If any of the said holidaysshouldfall on a Saturday, which is an employee's non-working day, then such holiday will be observed on the preceding work day.
11.02	Employeesonthe seniority istwill receive eight (8) hours straight time pay for each such holiday without being required to work on such days providedthat:
(a)	the employee has worked at leastfive (5) days duringthe twenty (20) working days immediatelyprecedingthe day on which such holiday is observed, and,
(b)	the employee has not been absent without permission on the last work day scheduledfor him/her immediately prior to the day on which the said holiday is observed, orthe first work day scheduledfor him/her immediately after the day on which the said holiday is observed.
(c)	I n cases where a regular employee has been on weekly indemnity and is cleared by his/her physician to return to work priorto or on the holiday, he/she will be eligible
30
for pay for that holiday.
11.03	Any employee who is required to work on any of the aforementioned plant holidays shall be paid at the rate of double time in addition to his/her regular days pay of eight (8) hours.
11.04	Employees who have gained recall privilegeswill receive payment for plant holidays on the same terms and conditions as regular employees.
ARTICLE 12 VACATION WITH PAY
12.01	Any employee who has worked a total of six (6) months either continuously or collectivety, prior to April 15, shall receive one (1) week’s vacation with pay, plus an additional day for each month of service in excess of six (6) months to a maximum of ten (10) days in any one (1) year.
Employees who have worked less than six (6) months as of April 15 shall receive payment in accordance with the Provincial Government Legislation.
12.02	As of April 15 in each calendaryearvacation leavewill be established for all regular employees according to the following scale:
Years of	Weeks of
Continuous Service	Vacation
2.......................2
3.......................3
8.......................4
15........................5
20........................6
25........................7
Employees who attain their 3rd, 8th, 15th, 20th and 25th anniversaries between January 1st and December 31st in the calendaryear shall be entitled to receive the established vacation entitlement mentioned respectively in (c), (d), (e), (f) and (g)
31
above.
The employeeswill be permittedtotaketheadditionalweekduring the slack periods designated in 13.06 but in no case prior to this actual anniversary date.
12.03	It is understoodthat with respectto entitlement outlined in Section 12.02 (d), (e), (9 and (g) above that the additional week(s) of vacation will be taken after September30th in any year and, as well, subsequent to the employee’s anniversary date.
12.04	If a regularemployee who would be entitledto vacation leaves the service of the Company without receiving his/her vacation, he/she shall be paidfor his/her vacation attheappropriate rate.
12.05	If any of the aforementioned plant holidays fall within an employee’s annual vacation period, he/she shall receiveeitheran additional day’s vacation or an additional day’s pay.
12.06	The recognized annual vacation period shall be May 1 st through September 30th and all regularemployeeswho are entitled to three (3) weeks vacation shall be entitled to have three (3) weeks continuousvacation during this period, provided that the taking of the vacations does not interfere with the efficient operation of the plant.
A vacation scheduleforthe following year shall be posted by March 1st. Employees shall indicate their preferences for recognized annual vacation period prior to April 15 or their right to displace employees with lower seniority shall be forfeited.
12.07	An employee may, with the consent of the Company, take his/her vacation in advance of the regularvacation period.
12.08	it is understood and agreed that seniority requirements for vacation purposes shall be total service with the Company.
12.09	(a) As of April 15th, in each calendaryear, employees who
attain three (3) or more years of seniority, as of their anniversary date within the calendaryear, shall receive a vacation bonus payable in cash and equal 20 percent
32
of such employees normal vacation payment.
(b) In the event layoffs are anticipated during the calendar year, employees shall be requiredto use their vacation bonus to alleviate layoff of regular employees with less seniority.
In any event, payment of vacation bonus in cash shall not be made prior to September 30th each year.
12,10	(a) In the event that an employee becomes seriously ill or is injured after having commenced higher vacation, such that he/she qualifies for Weekly Indemnity coverage, he/she may makearrangementsas outlinedto postpone his/her remainingvacation in order to enrol in the Weekly Indemnity Plan.
(i)	The employeeshalladvise h is/her supervisorof his/ her illness or accident and make arrangementsto have the Weekly Indemnity Form completed.
(ii)	All approved request will result in the employee’s remainingvacation beingcancelledthedayafterthe request is received. The remaining vacation time shall be rescheduledatthetime mutually agreeable to by the Company and the employee.
(iii)	Any vacation pay held by the employee for the cancelled period shall be returnedto the Company and re-issued for the rescheduled vacation period.
(b) NotwithstandingArticle 12,10 (a) or any other Article of this Agreement, an employee’s annual vacation must be taken in full within one (1) year of becoming entitledto same. Employees who are in receipt of disability compensation allowances, such as Workers' Compensation, weekly indemnity, Company-paid sick leave, etc., shall within the first one hundred and four (104) weeks cf such absence have added to such allowance by the Company, vacation wages so that the employee
33
receives, during his/hervacation period, thefullamount he/she would have received had he/she not been disabled, sick, etc., but in no event shall he/she be entiledto receive more in combinedcompensationand vacation wages than he/she would have received were he/she not in receipt of such disability compensation allowances.
12.11	For employees on a ten (10) or twelve (12) hour shift schedule, vacation payment shall be made on the basis of one hour straight time pay for each hour of vacation taken. Any remaining entitlement shall betaken when straight time relief is available. ARTICLE 13 UNION LABEL AND MATERIALS
13.01	The use of the union label of the International Union will be granted as long as the Company strictly observesall provisions of this agreement.
13.02	The Unionlabelmaybe used on cooperage, bottles, cases and cartons and must be affixed before leaving the Company’s plant.
13.03	Only Union made malt may be used when available when price and quality are equal. Other Union made materials and machinery shall be given preference where price and quality are equal.
ARTICLE 14 GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE AND ARBITRATION
Inthe eventthatany employee alleges a violation of the Agreement, he/she shall have full recourse to the grievance procedure. The following shall be the recognized procedure for the progressive adjustment of disputes or grievances. Within five (5) full working days of the alleged grievance occurring or becoming apparent, the first step shall be taken. It is understood and agreed that any aggrieved employee has the right to be heard at meetings dealing with his/her case.
14.01 1$tStep: The Shop Steward in the department in which the aggrieved employee works shall take the matter up with the
34
department supervisor, either with or without the aggrieved employee being present, if no agreement can be reachedthe next step shall be taken.
14.02	2nd Step The Union Shop Committee shall take the matter up with the department head. If no agreement can be reached the 3rd step shall be taken.
14.03	3rd Step: The Union Shop Committee shall take the matter up with the Management of the Company. Any grievance originating from the Company shall commence at the 3rd step in the grievance procedure. The Union Shop Committee Chairman shall be advised of the nature of the grievance and sufficient time shall be given for the committee to conduct a full investigationof the case before meeting with Management. If noagreement can be reached between the Company and the union Shop Committee,the matter shall be taken to the 4th step.
14.04	4th Step: Within three (3) working days of the 3rd step being taken, the grievance shall than be put in writing, signed by the aggrieved employee and signed on behalf of the union Shop Committee and shall be dealt with by the Management of the Company, the Union Shop Committee and a representativeof the Union's choice.
14.05	If no adjustment satisfactory to both parties can be reached in the previous four (4) steps then the matter shall be referred to arbitration by written notice within sixty (60) calendar days from the date of the Company's decision at step 4,
It is agreed that disputes which are carried to the arbitration stage shall be heard before a single arbitrator. The Company and the Union having expressed confidence in the ability of the under mentioned persons agree that they shall be called to arbitrate on a rotating basis and in order of their listing:
MARTIN FREEDMAN, Q.C.
DAVID E. BOWMAN, Q.C.
JACK CHAPMAN, Q.C.
35
If the arbitrator whose turn e indicated cannot act within a reasonabletime, the succeeding names will beapproachedi n order until an arbitrator is reached who can sit within a reasonabletime. Should all listed persons be unwilling or unable to serve when so approached, an unlisted person will be appointed by the Manitoba Labour Board. A person selected underthis Article or personswho, when requestedto serve, are willing or unable to do so shall be rotatedto the bottom of the list. The Arbitratorchosen shall certify the corrected order of the list of Arbitrators as part of his/her decision for each arbitration. It isanticipatedthat the Arbitrator will submit an award within (30) days from the date of the hearing. The parties undertake to prepare a 'statement of agreed facts' for submissionto the arbitrator. This statement will be preparedafter the matter has been referred to arbitration and will be prepared jointly by the partiesto this agreement.
The arbitrator's costs shall be equally shared by both partiesto this Agreement.
TheChairman ofthe UnionShopCommittee,on behalfofthe Union or the Manager on behalf of the Company, may file a policy grievance at 3rd step ofthe grievance procedure. A policy grievance is defined as a dispute between the Union and the Company concerning the interpretation, application, operation or alleged violation of the Agreement, including whether or not a matter is arbitrable.
14.07 Pendingarbitration, thereshall be nostrikeor lockoutand work shall continue under this Agreement. Arbitration cases to workshall be resolvedandadecision made by the Arbitration Board within a period not exceeding sixty (60) days of the hearing. ARTICLE 15 WELFARE
15.01	I n the event of the death of an immediate relative, i.e., parent, legal guardian, spouse, child, sister, brother, mother-inlaw, father-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, son-in-law or daughter-in-law, a regular employee will be granted such time off
36
with pay as is reasonable underthe circumstancesto enable him/ herto lookafterfuneralarrangements ortoattend the funeral. The extent of such time off shall be at the discretion of the Company depending upon the time of the bereavement in relationto hisfher regular time off, the distance to be travelled, etc. The general standard of bereavement time shall be (3) three consecutive days. In the event of the funeral of the employee's grand parent or grandchildren occurring onthe employee's regular scheduled day of work, time off with pay shall be granted to attend the funeral on that day.
The general standard of bereavement time shall be three consecutive daysorforthose employeesonaten (10)ortwelve (12) hour shift, twenty-four (24) hours.
15.02
(a)	Whenever employees are required to serve on a regular or coroner's jury during their normal working hours, they shall be granted leave of absence and shall receive the difference between their straight time pay and regular rate of jury pay.
(b)	When an employee is granted time off during his/her regular scheduled shift to act as a pallbearer for a deceased fellow employee or pensioner of the Company, shall be paid at hisfher rate of pay for any lost time incurred on the day of the funeral.
(c)	An employee subpoenaed to appear as a witness for the Crown shall, upon presentationof a claim supported by proof of having fulfilled such function be paid the difference betweenthe compensationreceivedfrom the Crown as witness fees and straight time pay at the regular hourly rate of the employee for hisfher regularly scheduled working time missed. Employees receiving subpoenas shall notify the Company at the earliest opportunity.
15.03	In generaland specificallywith respect to paid time not
37
worked and wage loss replacement plans, where the Collective Agreement uses the term 'day' it shall be equatedto an hourly entitlement based on an eight (8) hourday. As an example, 8 sick days would equateto an hourly entitlementof 64 hours (8 Daysx 8,0 hours=64 hours)andanemployeeonaten ortwelve hourshiftwill draw on this entitlement on an hourfor hour basis.
15.04
(a)	The Company agrees to grant leave of absence without remuneration for a period of not more than twelve (12) monthsto a regular employee who has been elected or appointed as an officer of the International or Local Union, if such duties require him/her to have leave of absence from his/her Company duties on a full time basis.
During such period of leave of absence, the employee’s seniority shall continue to accumulate as if he were employed by the Company. The period of time may be extendedf o ra further period on the U nion giving one (1) month’s notice prior to termination date. An employee who has been granted leave to hold office in the Union dial continue to accrue service entitlement towards service vacation and G.W.P. entitlement.
(b)	Employees not exceeding three (3) at any one time will be granted a leave of absence without remuneration from the Company to representthe Union at conferences provided at least one (1) week's notice is given to the Company and there is no unreasonable interference with Company operations. The durationof such leave of absenceshallnot be lessthan one (l)day, normorethan ten (10) working days. The partiesagreethatin the went of an emergency situation occurring the employee involved will give at leasttwelve (12) hours noticetothe Company. With respect to the employees noted in the
38
preceding paragraph the Company agrees to continuethe payand insuredbenefitsof such persons for the period of the agreed leave of absence. The cost of wages and benefitsisto be recoveredbythe Company by deducting the amount owing from the check-off transmitted to the Union.
(c)	Upon written application to the Company, from the executive of the Union, for educational leave for an elected official(s) for the Union:
(i)	Effective June 1, 1994 the Company shall grant a total of seven man days prior to June 1, 1995 in orderto provide paid educational leave, operational requirements permitting.
(ii)	Effective June 1,1995, the Company shall grant a total of seven man days priorto June 1, 1996 in orderto provide paid educational leave, operational requirements permitting.
(iii)	Effective June 1, 1996 the Company shall grant a total of seven man days prior to June 1, 1997 in orderto provide paid educational leave, operational requirements permitting.
15.05	The Pension Plan is part of this Agreement, and the amendments to it are attached hereto.
ARTICLE 16 SCHEDULE OF WAGES
16.01	The following schedule of wages is hereby confirmedand shallform part of this Agreement. No employee shall receive less thanthe following rates of payforthe classificationinwhich he/she is employed. A regular pay period shall be established by the Company onaone (l)weekbasisand employees shall receivetheir pay as mutually agreed upon.
16.02	Present higher rates of pay than those listed in the following schedules now enjoyed by the employee shall not be disturbed and shall continue as heretofore.
39
16.03	Any employee substituting on a higher rated job shall receive the higher rate of pay while so doing, but any employee Substituting on a lower ratedjob shall not have his/her regular rate of pay reduced, unless such employee appliesfo r a job at a lower rate or i permanently transferred to a lower rated job as a result of the operation of the seniority provisions contained in this Agreement.
16.04	Employees who are transferred to a new job as a result of technological change shall continue the existing rate of their former job untilthe rate of their new job reaches the existing rate of the former position.
16.05	As well, those employees whose jobs are affected by technological change, such as skilled tradesmen, Engineers, etc. may elect separation pay if they wish ratherthen accept transferto ajoboutsideoftheirusualoccupation. Ifanemployeeeledstotake separation pay in lieu of another job with the Company, he/she would not be eligible for separation pay again if re-hired.
40
MOLSON BREWERIES Wage Schedule
Classification
June 01,1994
Brewing Department..................................$ 21.60
Bottling:
Machine Operators......................................21.40
Assistant Shippers & Receivers.........................21.40
Bottleshop General including
Shippers & Receivers Helpers...........................21.32
Fork Lift Operator.....................................21.40
Maintenance and Engineering:
Maintenance Mechanics..................................23.82
Machinist..............................................23.87
Welder.................................................23.87
Electrician............................................24.22
Engineers..............................................24.31
Miscellaneous:
Temporary Certified Trades.............................18.28
Starting Rate
First Sixty (60) Days Worked...........................10.33
After Sixty (60) Days Worked...........................10.58
Employees whoattain regularemployeestatusas perthe Collective Agreement shall be paid the above classified rates.
Machine operators will include employees working on uncaser, soaker, discharge, filler, labeller, packers, sealer and taper, baler, palletizer, fork lift truck, carton former, saw operator, power transporter and laboratory technician - bottleshop.
41
Group LeadersshallbethosedesignatedbytheCompanyfromtime totimetoassume duties of a responsible nature overandabovethe ordinary duties requiredof the employee'sclassifi cation. The Group Leaderrate shall be 30 cents per hourabove the highest rate of the man in their group for those hours worked as a Group Leader.
Employees who are holders of valid St. John's Ambulance Certificates or equivalent may be designatedwithin the plantas FirstAid Attendants. These employees shall receive thirty (30) cents per hour inadditionto their regular hourly rate forthose hours worked as designated First Aid Attendants.
16.06	Pay for Skill Premiums
Employees engaged as certified trades persons will receive a 'pay forskill premium'for all hoursworkedafterobtainingtheadditional trade qualifications for any of the following combinations. Trade qualifications will be defined as the applicable ticket issued by the Manitoba Apprenticeship and Trade Certification Branch.
(a)	Electrician & Instrumentation Technician $1.00 per hour
(b)	Industrial Mechanic & Welder (69 P) $1.00 per hour
(c)	Industrial Mechanic & Machinist $1.00 per hour
(d)	Industrial Mechanic & Machinist & Welder (69 P) $2,000 per hour
16.07	Crew Leaders shall be those employees designated to assume duties of a coaching and/or administrative nature over and abovethe ordinaryduties requiredof that employee's classification. The duties shall include, but not be limited to, the training of employees, scheduling of work and personnel, safety training, communication activities,clericalwork, preparationof time sheets, and bargaining unit work as required. Discipline responsibilities and approval of time sheets are not included.
Crew Leaders will be appointed by the Company following a selection process wherein individuals on a specific crew are
42
canvassed for their interest, interviewed by the Supervisor and/or Department Manager, and the selection decision is reviewed with the Joint Steering Committee. The Crew leader shall receive a fifty (50) cents per hour premiumfor hours worked ARTICLE 17 COST OF LIVING ALLOWANCE
17.01	A lump sum payment will be paid to Regular Employees forall hours worked, including vacationsand statutory holidays, in the periodfromJunel, 1996 to May 31,1997, the first pay period following publicationof the May, 1997 Consumer Price Index (1971 = 100) on the basis cf one (1) cent per hourfor each full .3 change in the Consumer Price Index (1971 = 100) in the period June 1, 1996 to May 31, 1997, calculated by subtracting the Consumer Price Index (1971 = 100) for the month of May, 1996, afteradding thereto 7% of the May, 1996 Consumer Price Index, (1971 = 100) from the Consumer Price Index (1971 = 100) for the month of May, 1997.
ARTICLE 18 TERMS OF AGREEMENT
18.01	ThrsJ^eement^ialLfeinain in force and effactimnUha -dated ratification until Mav31.1997 thereafter from yeartoyear,
provided that either party may)Hot less than thirty (30) days prior tothe expiration date of thisAgreement, give notice in writing tothe other party that changes are desired herein. When such notice has been given the parties shall commence negotiationswithin ten (10) days from the date of receipt cf notification.
18.02	In the event that no settlement can be reached between the parties, and a strike or lockout develops, the Union agrees the engineeringstaff, one per shift, will be allowedto continueto work to maintain essential plant protection service. Such employee will not be subjectto the provisions of Article 7.03 of this Agreement.
18.03	There shall be no retroactive application of any of the provisions of the settlement and the resulting amendments to the Collective Agreement except as expressly provided for herein.
18.04	The employees share of any employment insurance
43
premium rebate will be retained by the Companyto offseta portion of the Cost of the benefit improvements contained in this agreement.
Addendum and Letters of Understanding
The parties, specifically United Food and Commercial Workers Local UnionNo. 330W of the United Foodand CommercialWorkers International Unionfthe "Union") and Molson Breweries, Wnnipeg, Manitoba (the "Company"), have agreed to and Addendum to this Collective Agreement which is entitled h PartnershipAgreement". It is agreed that this Addendum and all Letters of Understanding between the parties will override the provisions of the Collective Agreement where necessary and/or in the event of any conflict between the provisions. Accordingly, we have agreed that the Addendum and the Letters of Understanding form part of this Collective Agreement.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
For the Company	Forthe union
L.M. McKenna Y. FNaassan W.S. Bashucky
D.A. Richards
R. Warner L. Manning W. McDowell E Terlecki A.E. Pope Udo Bedarf R. Smyrichinsky
44
GUARANTEED WAGE PLAN
THIS AGREEMENT made this 1 st day of June 1994 A.D. Between:
MOLSON BREWERIES
(hereinafter called the “Company”)
OF THE FIRST PART - AND-
UNITED FOOD & COMMERCIAL WORKERS UNION, LOCAL 330W
(hereinafter called the “Union”)
OF THE SECOND PART.
WHEREAS the Company has entered into a Collective Agreement with the above named Union covering the Bargaining Unit in Winnipeg.
AND WHEREAS the said Parties have agreed to make a SupplementaryAgreement which is to be a supplement to the said Collective Agreement, and any grievancesarising out of the administration	of	this
supplement maybe dealt with underthe Grievance Procedureofthe Collective Agreement.
NOW THEREFORE the Parties agree to the continuation of the Guaranteed Wage Plan as hereinafter set forth with such continuation to become effective on the 1st day cf June, 1994.
Or on any later date on which approval for continuation has been received from the Federal Government Holding that:
(a)	The Plan meets the requirement cf Employment and Immigration Canada with respect to Supplemental Unemployment Benefit Plans;
45
(b)	Payments by the Company pursuant to this Plan will be classedas deductibleexpensesforcorporate incometax purposes, and;
(c)	The receipt by employees of the benefits providedby this Plan will not disqualify such employees from receiving any part of the Unemployment Insurance Benefits to which they would otherwise be entitled.
1.	Purpose
The purpose of this Plan is to provide a method of guaranteeing incometo certain employeeswho are laid off.
2.	Eligibility for Participation in the Plan
An eligible employee(s) entitled to participate in this Plan is an hourly rated employee who has:
(a)	attained Regular Employee status as perthe provisions of Article 2,02 in the Collective Agreement.
(b)	has a seniority date earlierthan June 1,1990; and
(c)	has completedat leastthree (3) years of Benefit Service determined as of the first day of June immediately preceding his/her layoff.
For purposes of the Plan, Benefit Service shall be computed as the length of service of such employee subsequent to a date six (6) calendar months prior to the date on which he/she completed working one hundred and thirty-two (132) working days in any twelve (12) month period.
3.	Exceptions
This plan has no application for and provides no benefit for:
(a)	Employees who have been laid off for disciplinary reasons and if such layoff is questioned under the Grievance Procedure of the Collective Agreement final dispositionof any grievance will determine the employee’s status under the Plan;
(b)	Employeeswho have been laid off because of any strike,
46
lockout, slowdown, picketingor other action by employees of this Company or by employees of any other Companywho are representedfor collective bargaining purposes by the United Food & Commercial Workers Union; Local330W, C.L.C. or byany local Unionthereof or by any successor of any of the aforementioned;
(c)	Employees who have been terminated because of specific direction or decree from any Governmentauthority which has the effect of curtailing any Of the Company’s operations;
(d)	Employees who have been laid off because of any act of war or the hostile act of any foreign power or by any act of sabotage or insurrection or by any act of God;
(e)	Employees who are laid off and who have arranged with the Company to take leave of absence without pay for a specific period in lieu of their layoff. These employees will be deemed to have opted out of the Plan for such period.
4.	Disqualification for Benefits
An employee who has been laid off and who would otherwise be eligible for participation in the Plan shall not receive any payments under the Plan for any week:
(i)	Inwhich hehasbeenon layoffand hasfailedto applyfor U.l. benefits, or inwhich he/she has been disqualified or disentitledfrom U.l. benefits by any reason other than serving a two (2) week waiting period;
(ii)	Inwhich he/she has beenon layoffand hasfailedto keep himself/herself registered for employment with the Canada Manpower Centre in those cases where such registrationisnecessary to qualifyforU.I. benefits orfor reduction of U.l. waiting period;
(iii)	Inwhich he/she hasfailed or refusedto acceptemploy-mentdeemed suitable for him/her by the Unemployment
47
Insurance Commission;
(iv)	In which he/she hasfailed to accept and report for any appropriate work assignment of at least one normal working day unless excused for reasonable cause;
(v)	Inwhichhe/she e in receiptof a benefit provided bythe Company's Sickness and Disability Plan, InsuredWeekly Indemnity Plan, Insured Long Term Disability Plan or other benefit plan of the Company;
(vi)	After he/she has become entitled to receive any pension under the Company or Government Pension Plan;
(vii)	In respectof which he/she isqualifiedfor compensation from the Workers’ Compensation Board for any compensable accident or illness.
5.	Definitions For purposes of this Plan:
“Wages” shall mean actual earnings for work performed and vacation pay, paymentfor any leave of absence with pay granted, e.g. jury duty, bereavement pay, paymentfor Statutory Holidays and call in pay.
“Week” shall mean the Company's payroll week.
“Compensated and available hours” means as applied to any particular week for any employee:
(a)	All hours worked by the employee for the Company or for any other employer in such week, plus;
(b)	All hours not worked bythe employee in such week but for which he/she receives wages from any employer, plus;
(c)	All hours scheduled in such weekfor an employee who is noton layoff and which he/she hasnotworkeaforany reason other than lack of work, plus;
(d)	All hoursscheduledinsudiweekforanemployeeidlQ is on layoff and which he/she has not worked for any
48
reason otherthan lack of work after being given reasonable notice accordingto the established practice of the Companythatsuch scheduled hours were availableto be worked by him/her.
“Week of layoff means a week in which the employee's compensated and available hours are less than forty (40).
6.	Benefits Provided for Laid Off Employees
Subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan as herein set out each eligible employee who is laid off from the Bargaining Unitshall receive in addition to any wages earned in the week a benefit from the Plan for each week ,of layoff calculated by determining the product of itemsl, 2and 3 belowand deductingfrom such product the sum of item 4 below.
(1)	Seventy percent (70% for eligible employees as hereinabove defined);
(2)	The straight time hourly rate of the employee in effect as of time of layoff;
(3)	The excess of forty (40) over the compensated and available hours of the employee;
(4)	The actual benefit, if any, for which such employee is eligible under the Unemployment! nsurance Act for such week.
7.	Welfare Benefits During layoff
An employee who is laid off continues to participated the Welfare Plan of the Companyapplicableto employeesinhis/her Bargaining Unittotheendofthe monthfollowing the last month during which he/she has drawn a benefit underthis Plan, whichever is the later. Welfare Plan for the purpose of this section does not include the Pension Planorthe Company’sSicknessand DisabilityPlan,which cover only indemnity for wages actually lost because of illness or accident.
An employee on layoff who, pursuant to the above, has ceased to
49
participate in the Welfare Plan is restoredto participation immediately upon completion of eight (8) hours work in the Bargaining Unit.
8.	Duration of Benefits
The maximumbenefit entitlement of an employee at anytime shall not exceed that benefit established in accordance with Table 'A. However,the employee’s actual benefit entitlementwill belessthan the maximum benefit entitlement if he/she has used any benefits and has not subsequently restored them
Weeks of benefits are restored based upon the formula of 1/1 Oth of a week for each eight (8) full hours during which the employee earned wages from the Company up to the employee's maximum benefit entitlementset oui in Table ‘A’ below. No credits towards future benefitentitlements are allowedfor wages earnedduringany period in which the employee is already entitled to the maximum benefitsset out in Table ‘A’.
TABLE A
Completed Years of Benefit Service
Determined as of the June 1st	Maximum
ImmediatelyPreceding layoff	BenefitEntitiement
15 Years or More......................78 Weeks of	Benefits
10 Years or More......................65 Weeks of	Benefits
5 Years or More.......................52 Weeks of	Benefits
4 Years or More.......................45 Weeks of	Benefits
3 Years or More.......................35 Weeks of	Benefits
The maximum numberof weeks of benefits which an employeemay use during any twelve (12) month period commencing June 1st shall not exceed his/her MaximumBenefit Entitlementdetermined as of the June 1st in accordance with Table “ A above.
Each eligible employee's weeks of benefits shall be decreased by
50
one (1) weekfor each week in respect of which he/she is on layoff and in receipt of benefitsfor morethan thirty two (32) hours; and by 4/5ths of one (1) weekfor each week in which he/she is on layoff and in receipt of benefitsformorethantwentyfour (24) hours;and by 3/5ths of one (1) weekfor each week in which he/she is on layoff and in receipt of benefitsfor morethan sixteen (16) hours; and by 2/5ths of one (1) weekfor each week in which he/she is on layoff and in receipt of benefitsfor morethan eight (8) hours; and by 1/ 5th of one (1)week in which ha/she is on layoff and in receipt of benefitsfor eight (8) hours or less; and his/her weeks of benefits shall also be decreased by one (1) weekfor each week in which he/ she is on layoff but was disqualifiedfor any of the reasons set out in subsections (i), (ii), (iii) and (iv) of Section4.
9.	Deductions
Any payment made under this Plan shall be subject to any deductions required by Federal, Provincialor Municipalauthority or by the provisions of the Collective Agreement, or by voluntary authorization from the employee concerned.
10.	Applications
Employees shall be requiredto observe such rules and follow such procedures and make such reports and applications as shall be prescribed by the Company after consultation with the Union. The wilful falsification of any fact material to the determination of an employee’s benefit rights underthe Plan shall result intheforfeiture of any benefit rights he/she may have underthe Plan for a period of twelve (12) months subsequent to the discovery of such falsification, and this shall not preclude any other disciplinary action which may be imposed subjectto the Grievance Procedure of the Collective Agreement.
11.	Reporting
The Company will make periodic reports to the Union while employees are laid off and receiving benefits under the Plan and quarterly if no employees are on layoff, giving the Union complete information as to the number of employeeswho have been laid off,
51
the durationthereof, the payments made to each individual under the Plan, the numberof ineligibleand disqualifiedemployees,and such other similar information as may be relevant.
12. Duration of Agreement
This Agreement shall continue until May31,1997. During negotiations for renewal of the relevant CollectiveAgreement, the Union is free to requestamendmentsto this Agreement which shallalso be part of such negotiations, but on the understanding that any amendments to the Agreement will not take effect any earlier than June 1,1997.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto have affixed their signaturesthis 4th day of February, A.D. 1994
FOR THE COMPANY
L.M. M°Kenna Y.F. Naassan D.A. Richards W.S. Bashucky
FOR THE UNION
W. McDowell R. Warner L. Manning U. Bedarf A. Pope
E.	Terlecki
52
SUMMARY
OF
PENSION
PLAN
53
SUMMARY OF THE PENSION PLAN
The following changes to the current Pension benefits will be effective as of June 1,1994 for all regular employees as of that date andfor newly hired employees when they attainseniority following that date:
1.	Scope and Coverage
ThisAgreementcoversallseniority employeeswhoare represented in collective bargaining by the Union.
The terms, conditions and funding arrangements of said Plan will be revised in such mannerand detail as are necessary or desirable to effectively and fully implement the understandings herein enumerated.
2.	Benefits Accrued up until May 31,1977
In respect to benefits actually earned and accrued up to and including May31,1977 bythe employees who are covered bythe former Pension Plansrt isunderstoodandagreedthat such benefits shall continue to the credit of the individual employee and to be exercisable inaccordancewiththetermsandconditionsapplicable asofMay31,1977, unless specifically modifiedoramendedbythis document.
3.	Eligibility for Benefits from Junel, 1977
As and from June 1,1977 those employees who are participating members of the Pension Plan prior to June 1, 1977 shall automatically be eligible for all benefits accruing as hereinafter outlined.
As and from June 1,1977, all other present and future employees shall be eligible for benefitsaccruing effectivefrom the first day of the month following completion of 130 days of work in any twelve month period.
4.	Cost of Benefits
The cost of providing all contributions with respect to pension benefits which will accrue as and from June, 1977 shall be made
54
by the Company.
5.	Credited Services
Credited service shall be computedfor each calendaryear on the basis of one twelfth (1/12) ofayear's credited serviceforeach150 hours actually worked or for which wages have been paid. It is understood that wages shall mean actual earnings for work performed andvacationpay, paymentforany leave of absencesuch as, for example, jury duty, bereavement pay, paymentfor statutory holidays,call-in payandany periodfor which an employee is absent from work and 'in receipt of Worker's Compensation, Weekly Indemnity or Long Term Disability payments. Earned credits in any calendaryear shall in no case exceed one year of credited service and shall be calculated to the nearest one twelfth (1/12) year of credited service.
6.	Normal Retirement Date
The normal retirement date shall be the first day of the month coincident with or next following the employees' 65th birthday and the earned and accrued retirement income shall be payable commencing on the normal retirement date.
7.	Pension Payable On Normal Retirement
The amount of basic pension benefitspayable for an employee who has reached normal retirement shall be the amount as provided in Section Two (2) plus a basic pension benefit calculated in accordance with the following schedule.
Plus:
55
Monthly Retirement income per year of Credited Setvice
Period of Credited Service or proportionate Credit to the nearest one twelfth (1/12) of a year as outlined in Section Five (5)
June 1, 1977 to May 31, 1978................12.00
June 1, 1978 to May 31,1980.................12.00
June 1, 1980 to May31, 1981.................13.00
June 1,1981 to May 31,1982..................14.00
June 1, 1982 to	May 31, 1983................15.00
June 1, 1983 to	May31, 1984.................16.50
June 1, 1984 to	May31, 1985.................17.25
June 1, 1985 to	May31, 1986.................19.00
June 1, 1986 to	May31, 1987.................19.50
June 1, 1987 to	May 31, 1988................20.00
June 1,1988 to May 31,1989..................26.00
June 1,1989 to May 31,1990..................27.00
June 1,1990 to May31,1991...................28.00
June 1,1991 to May31,1992...................30.00
June 1,1992to May31,1993....................31.00
June 1,1993 to May 31,1994..................32.00
June 1,1994 to May 31,1995..................34.00
June 1,1995 to May 31,1996..................36.00
June 1,1996 and on..........................37.00
8.	Supplemental Pension Benefit
I	For members who retire on or after June 1,1994, the
following shall apply:
(a) Minimum Pension at Normal Retirement
A member retiringat age 65 with at least 30 years
56
of credited service isentitledto a lifetime supplement beingtheamount requiredto beaddedtothe member'saccrued pensionand the full unreduced Canada Pension Plan Retirement benefits determined at the date of his retirementto produce a minimum monthly pension of $1,980.00.
If a member retires at age 65 with less than 30 years of credited service, the lifetime supplement shall be the amount by which the minimum at normal retirement exceeds the full unreduced Canada pension Plan Retirement benefits, prorated by the ratio of the numberof years of credited, serviceto 30 years and reduced bythe member's accrued pension.
(b) Amember retiringafter having attained age 60 with at Ieast30years of creditedservice isentitledto an immediate accrued pension equalto the amount of accrued pension to his credit for service to date of early retirement, without reduction for the earlier date of retirement.
The pension will be supplemented by an amount necessary to provide a monthly pension of $1,743.00, from Company Plans payable untilthe member would have first become eligible to receive unreduced Canada Pension Plan Retirement Benefits.
Thereafter,the supplementshall be recalculatedas the amount required to beadded to the member's accrued pension and the full unreduced Canada Pension Plan Retirement benefits determined at the date of his retirementto produce a monthly pension of $1980.00; which supplement shall become his lifetime supplement. Onadditiontotherecalculatedlifetimesupplement,
57
amemberwho retires before May 31,1995 wi II be paidafurthersupplement, if necessary, to produce a total pension from Company Plans equal to the pensionthat would be payable if the memberwere then retiring at normal retirement, based on the normal retirement minimum pension and full unreduced Canada Pension Plan retirement benefit both determined as of 'that date, his accrued pension including any escalation thereof and his related credited service. This further supplement shall then be added to and form part of the member's lifetime supplement.
II	For members who retire on or after June 1,1995, the
following shall apply:
(a)	Minimum Pension at Normal Retirement
A member retiringat age 65 with at least 30 years of credited service is entitled to a lifetime su pplement being the amount required to be added to the member's accrued pension and the full unreduced Canada Pension Plan Retirement benefits determined at the date of his retirement to produce a minimum monthly pension of $2,118.00.
If a member retires ai age 65 with less than 30 years of credited service, the lifetime supplement shall be the amount by which the minimum pension at normal retirement exceeds the full unreduced Canada Pension Plan Retirement benefits, prorated by the ratio of the number of years of credited service to 3 0 years and reduced by the members accrued pension.
(b)	Special Early Retirement
A member retiring after having attained age 60 with at least 30 years of credited service is entitled to an immediate accrued pension equal to the amount of
58
accrued pensionto his credit for serviceto date of early retirement, without reduction for the earlier date of retirement.
This pension will be supplemented by an amount necessary to provide a monthly pension of $1,861.00 from Company Pension Plans payable until the memberwould have first become eligible to receive unreduced Canada Pension Plan Retirement benefits.
Thereafter, the supplementshall be recalculatedas the amount requiredto be added to the member's pension and the full unreduced Canada Pension. Plan Retirement benefits determined at the date of his retirement to produce a monthly pension of $2,118.00 which supplement shall become his lifetime supplement.
I n addition to the recalculated lifetimesupplement, a memberwho retires before May 31,1996 will be paidafurther supplement, if necessary, to produce a total pensionfrom Company Plans equal to the pensionthat would be payable if the memberwere then retiring at normal retirement, based on the normal retirement minimum pension and full unreduced Canada Pension Plan retirement benefits both determined as of the date, his accrued pension including any escalation thereof and his related credited service. This further supplement shall then be added to and form part of the member's lifetime supplement.
III	For members who retire on or after June 1,1996, the
following shall apply:
(a)	Minimum Pensionat Normal Retirement
A member retiring at age 65 with at least 30 years of creditedservice is entitled to a lifetime supplement
59
being the amount required to be added to the member's accrued pensionand the full unreduced Canada Pension Plan Retirement benefits determined at the date of his retirement to produce a minimum monthly pension of $2,256.00.
If a member retires at age 65 with less than 30 years of credited service, the lifetime supplement shall be the amount by which the minimum pension at normal retirement exceeds the full unreduced Canada Pension Plan Retirement benefits prorated by the ratio of the number of years of credited servicet o 30 years and reduced by the member's accrued pension.
(b) Special Early Retirement
A Member retiringafter having attained age 60 with at Ieast30 yearsof credited service isentitled to an immediateaccruedpensionequaltotheamountof accrued pensionto his credit for serviceto date of early retirement, without reduction for the earlier date of retirement.
This pension will be supplemented by an amount necessary to provide a monthly pension of $1,980.00 from Company Plans payable untilthe memberwouldhavefirst becomeeligibleto receive unreduced Canada Pension Pian Retirement benefits.
Thereafter, the supplementshall be recalculatedas the amount requiredto be added to the member's accrued pension and the full unreduced Canada Pension Plan Retirementbenef its as determined at the date of his retirement to produce a monthly pension of $2,256.00; which supplement shall become his lifetime supplement.
Inaddition to the recalculatedlifetimesupplement,
60
amemberwhoretires before May 31,1997 will be paida further supplement, if necessary,to produce a total pension from Company Plans equal to the pension that would be payable if the member were then retiring at normal retirement, based on the normal retirement minimum pension and full reduced Canada Pension Plan retirement benefit both determined as of that date, his accrued pension including any escalation thereof and his related credited service. This further supplement shall then be added to and form part of the member's lifetime supplement.
9.	Escalation of Benefits
Cn January 1, 1978 and every January 1 thereafter, an employee retiring after June 1,1977 who reached his normal retirement date will have his accrued pensions only (excluding any supplement) escalatedto a maximum of 2% based on the 12 month percentage increase of the Consumer Price Indexas of previous September 1. Any employee whose normal retirement date is January 1, will not receive any basic pension escalation until the following January 1. For members who retire on or after June 1, 1988, the member's actual pension payment including lifetime supplement, if any, shall be increased after January 1, commencing with January 1st following the member's actual retirement date, by the percentage sei out in the existing pension escalation formula (as described above).
Any spousal pension will also be escalated as per the existing formula, with the first increase occurring on the January 1st following the member's date of death.
10.	- Other Early Retirement
Amemberretiring on or after June 1,1988 and after having attained age 55 but priorto having qualifiedfor Special Early Retirement or 85 Point Retirement is entitled to an immediate accrued pension equal to the amount of accrued vested pension to his credit for
61
service to date of early retirement reduced by one-third of 1 % per month (i.e. 4% peryear) for each month his retirement precedes age 65.
Inaddition, such membershall be entitledto a lifetimesupplement calculated as if the member had attained age 65 on his date of retirement but using hiscurrent unreduced vested accrued pension and his related creditedservice, the full unreduced Canada Pension Plan Retirement benefit and the normal retirement minimum pensionalldeterminedas of the member's actual date of retirement. This lifetime supplement so caIculatedwi11 then be reduced byone-third of 1% per month (i.e. 4% per year) for each month his retirement precedes age 65.
11.	85 Point Retirement
A memberretiringanorafter June 1,1994 and afterhavingattained age 55 and whose age plus years of credited service total 85 dr more (butpriorto havingqualified forS pecial Early Retirement)is entitled to an immediate accrued pension equal to the amount of accrued vested pensionto hiscreditfor serviceto date of early retirement. Inaddition, such membershall be entitledto a lietimesupplement calculated as if the member had attained age 65 on his date of retirement but using his current unreduced Canada Pension Plan Retirement benefitand the normal retirement minimum pension all determined as of the member's actual date of retirement.
Once such member becomes eligible to receive unreduced Canada Pension Plan Retirement benefits (on attaining age sixty-five) and in addition to the lifetimesupplement, a member who retiresunder this provision (eighty-five point retirement) priorto May 31,1997 will be paid a further supplement, if necessary, to produce a total pension from Company plans equal to the pension that would be payable if the member were then retiring at normal retirement, based under normal retirement minimum pension and full unreduced Canada Pension Plan Retirement benefit both determined as of that date, his accrued pension including any escalation thereof and his related credited service. This further supplement shall then
62
be added to and form part of the member's lifetime supplement.
12.	Disability Retirement
Effective June 1,1991, employees who have attained age 50 and completed 10 years of service who become disabled and retire underthe disability provisions of the pension plans, shall receive a supplementary benefit of $14.00 per month multiplied by the number of years of credited service upto a maximum of 30 years. The supplement is payable until the employee is eligibleto receive either a statutory disability or retirement benefit. This supplement will be paid in addition to such employee's full accrued pension at time of disability retirement.
In addition, such memberwho retires on or after June 1,1988 shall beentiitledto a lifetimesupplement commencing onthedate he first becomes eligible to receive unreduced Canada Pension Plan Retirement benefits. This supplement shall be calculated as if the member had attainedage 65 on his date of retirement but using his current unreducedvested accrued pensionand his related credited service, the full unreduced Canada Pension Plan Retirement benefits and the normal retirement minimum pension all determined as of the member's actual date of retirement.
13.	Termination of Employment(Vesting)
A member's accrued pensionand lifetime supplement shall completely vest upon the completion of two (2) years of credited service.
14.	Spouse's Option
(a) Joint and Survivor Pension
A member with an eligible spouse who takes Normal, Special Early, 85 Point, Disability or Early Retirementon • or after June 1.1988 shall receivea Joint and Survivor Pension unless the persons entitled to the Joint and Survivor Pension deliver to the Pian Administrator a written waiver of such entitlement in the prescribed form within the period of twelve months immediately
63
precedingthe commencement of payment of the pension benefit.
The standard form of Joint and Survivor pension that the member's accrued pensionandlifetimesupplement, if any, shall be reduced by 10% during his lifetime (subjectto actuarial reduction if the member's spouse ismorethan 10yearsyoungerjhan the member). Upon his death, his eligible surviving spouse shall receives pension of 60% of the member's reduced accrued pension and lifetime supplement, if any.
The current Manitoba Legislation requires that the surviving spouse receives pension of not less than 66 2/3% of the member's reduced accrued pension and lifetime supplement, if any. in order to provide the 66 2/3% spousal pension, the member's pension must be reducedtoa levelwhich istheactuarial equivalentofthe standard form of Joint and Survivor pension.
(b)	Death Before Retirement
If a member dies on or after June 1,1988 after having met the existing eligibility requirements for a pre-retirementspousal pension, his spouse shall receivean immediate pension equal to the existing percentage of theaccrued pensionto his creditfor service priortothe date of his death under the existing pre-retirement spousal pension provisions, plus the same percentage of his lifetime supplement.
The lifetime supplement will be calculated as if the member had attained age 65 on his date of death, but using his current unreduced accrued Canada Pension Retirement benefit and the normal retirementminimum pensionall determined as of the member's actual date of death.
If a member dies before his pension commences and the spouse is not entitled to a pensionas explained in
64
the preceding paragraphs, any contributions required to be paid by the member prior to June 1, 1977 with interest to the date of death will be paid to the designated beneficiaryor failing such, to the member's estate.
The death benefit paid above shall not be less than that provided under existing pension legislation.
15.	Continuation of Benefits After Retirement
Employees eligiblefor basic pension benefitsand lifetimesupplement, if any, derived from employment underthe non-contributory plan after June 1,1977 shall have said benefitscontinueas long as they live. Benefitsfor employment underthe contributory plan priorto June 1,1977 shall be for life or as follow:
If the total basic pension payment, if any, at the time of death of a member who elected normal pension, after normal or early retirement is lessthanthe sum of his contribution with accumulated interest to retirement date, the difference will be payable to his designated beneficiary.
16.	Deferred Retirement
The following provisions respectingthe Pension Plan shall apply where an apply where an employee continues in the employment of the Company beyond his normal retirement date:
1.	The employee shall continue to accrue service and pension credits until the employee terminates or retires in accordance with (2) below.
2.	The employees Pension shall become payable as of the first day of the monthimmediatelyfollowingthe month the employee ceasedto be employedwith the Compa-
. ny, or as of the first day of each month immediately preceding the employees seventy-first (71) birthday, whichever shall occur (the "Pension Plan"). .
3.	Forthe purpose of calculating any supplement benefit, the CANADA Pension Plan benefits will be at the level
65
in effect at the actual retirement date.
4.	Escalationbenefitsare to commence from actual retirement.
5.	All other provisions of the Pension Plan will remain unchanged.
17.	Application tor Benefits
If an employee is eligible to receive either unreduced Canada Pension Plan at disability benefits whichever are applicable and doesnotapplyforor loses partorallof such benefits through delay in applyingforthem, orotheract orfailure to act, the employee shall be deemed to be in respect of such benefits for purposes of calculation the amount of any supplement.
18.	Duration
This Pension Memorandum will be for three years and effective June 1,1994.
MOLSON BREWERIES (HOURLY EMPLOYEES)
HEALTH BENEFITS PROVIDED BY: MANITOBA BLUE CROSS NOTE:	In any communication with Blue Cross, please make
referencetoyourGroup Number. YOUR GROUPNUMBERIS1138. INTRODUCTION
Manitoba Blue Cross is very pleased to have been selected to provide these Company benefits.
This booklet has been prepared to provide you with a convenient summary of your benefits, in non-technical language. (In all cases, the specific benefits available and the terms and conditions under which they are provided, are governed by the master agreement between the Company and Blue Cross.
If you should require any further information concerning your
66
benefits,you are encouragedto contactyour Company's Personnel Administrator, or to call Blue Cross directly ai (204) 775-0151. (Subscribers located in rural Manitoba are welcome to call using our toll-free line (1-800-262-8832).
We look forward to serving you!
WHO IS ELIGIBLE?
Permanent full-time employees and permanent part-time employees as designated by the Company including the employee's spouse and dependents are eligible to become members.
The term "Spouse" means the person to whom an employee is legally married; or, the person named by the employee, but who is sharing the same principle residence with the employee at the time of employment. For subscribers adding a dependent common-law spouse, if their coverage has become effective, there shall be a one-year waiting period immediately prior to the commencement of benefits for the dependent common-law spouse. This waiting period must be administered by Blue Cross.
The term "Dependent" means any natural, legally adopted, orfoster child under 21 years of age provided they are not working and not married. Also, unmarried children under the age of 21 whoarefull-time students at a specialized school, college or university. Also, any child physically disabled or mentally retarded, regardless of age, who is totally dependent uponthe parentsforfinancial support. Newemployeesshall be eligible for plan benefits upon completion of the following waiting period: Ambulance/Hospital Semi-Private and Extended Health Benefits Plans on the first of the month following 130 days of employment in a 12 month period. Employees retiring from active employment who wish to maintain their health benefitswhile retired, may remain enrolled inthis group plan provided they have been subscribers for at least one year prior to retirement.
67
YOUR BENEFITS Health Benefits
Your Plan provides complete coverage for Ambulance and SemiPrivate Hospitalcharges in Manitoba (see page A-1 inthis booklet). In addition, you may claim reimbursement for 80% of other necessary health expenses not covered by the Government Health Plan. These eligible expenses are listed On pages E-1 and E-2.
AT A GLANCE
Eligible expenses include charges for services rendered by chiropractors upto a maximum of $150 per family per calendar year. Please note that reimbursementissubjectto an Annual Deductible of $10 per person (maximum $20 per family). The deductible is subtracted from your first claim.
IDENTIFICATION CERTIFICATE
Soon afteryou enrol you will receive an Identification Certificate. This certificate identifies the subscriber, his/her eligible dependents, andthetype of coverage provided. Wheneveryou are claiming benefits from this Pian, be sure to quote your contract number in the space provided for it on the claim form.
If you have lost or misplaced your Identificationcertificate, please contact your Personnel Administrator and arrangements will be made to provide you with a new one.
AMBULANCE/HOSPITAL PLAN PURPOSE OF THE PLAN
This Pian providesfor ambulance servicesand hospital accommodation in our home province; and provides a convenient method of "paying" for these services if they are provided in Manitoba.
SUMMARY OF BENEFITS * Ambulance Benefits
Full payment of reasonable and customary charges for ambulance services provided within the province, and
68
payment of upto$250 pertrip (based on provincial rates) for ambulance services provided elsewhere.
This includes not only local ambulance services to and from hospital but also long distance ambulance trips for which additional mileage charges are made.
There are no limits on the amount payable within the province or on the number of trips covered.
All 'emergency' ambulance trips are covered, and "nonemergency' trips are covered on the prior recommendation of an attending physician if the patient is non-ambulatory and cannot be transported by any means other than ambulance.
Air ambulance allowances will be paid up to the amount equivalent had the services been provided by ground ambulance.
*	Medical Transfer Service ("Medicar")
Charges for 'non-emergency" transport by a participating medical transfer service are covered up to a lifetime maximum of $250 per person.
*	Hospital Benefits
Full payment of the hospital's additional charge for semiprivate roomaccommodations providedwithin the province. (The provincial Medicare plan covers standard ward charges.)
*	Hostel Accommodations
If a subscriber requires diagnostic testing ortreatmentonthe recommendation of a medical practitioner, at a Manitoba hospital located more than 60 km from the subscriber's home, and if the subscriber is placed in a recognizedmedical hostel associated with the hospital, Blue Cross will pay the reasonable and customary per diem charge for such hostel accommodations.
69
CLAIMING FOR AMBULANCE AND HOSPITAL BENEFITS
In Manitoba, ambulanceservicesand semi-privatehospitalaccom-modationsare provided automatically upon presenting the Blue Cross card, and no furtheraction is necessary.
Outside Manitoba, employeesmust pay fortheseservicesprivately and then submit itemized receipts for reimbursement.
EXTENDED HEALTHCARE PURPOSE OF EXTENDED HEALTH CARE Extended Health Cate is designed to supplement provincial Medicare. In addition to the AmbulanceandHospital coverage, employees are reimbursed for necessary and reasonable health expenses, incurred by employeesor dependents, which are not covered by the Government Plan.
SUMMARY OF BENEFITS
Under Extended Health Care, employees will be reimbursed for a portion of reasonable and customary expenses (See 'Your Bene-fits< At-A-Glance") for extent of coverage for the following health services>
•	Drugs (including oral contraceptives) serums, injectable and insulin purchased on the prescription of a medical doctor, exceptforvitaminsand vitamin preparations(unless injected) and patent or proprietary medicines.
*	Trawl Health Cam
Chargesfor medical, surgical and hospital services resulting from accidentor illnesswhiletravellingout of provinceupto a maximum of $2,500 percalendaryear. Additional coverage for U.S. or international travel is recommended.
•	Dental Treatment
Chargesfor dentaltreatment resultingfrom accidental injury orjaw or natural teeth.
*	Medical Practitioner
Charges for diagnosis and treatment by chiropodists,
70
physiotherapists, and podiatrists up to an annual maximum of $350 per person per practitioner.
*	Nutritional Counselling
Chargesforthe service of a registered dietitian upon referral by a medical practitionerto an annual maximum of $350 per person.
*	Athletic Therapy
Charges of $10.00 per visit for services of a Certified Athletic Therapist when recommended by a physician to an annual maximum of $100.
*	Psychological Counselling Chargesfortheservice of Clinical Psychologistwhen referred by a medical practitionerto an annual maximum of $350 per person.
*	Private Duty Nursing
Charges for private duty nursing or home visits by a professional registered nurse (not a relative) either in the hospital or home as recommended by the attending physician, up to a maximum of $3,000.
*	Prosthetic and Remedial Equipment
Charges for artificial limbs and eyes, splints, casts, trusses, crutches and breast prostheses (subject to certain limitations). Charges for the modification to orthopaedic shoes, one pair of orthopaedic shoes per year when part of a brace and 50% of the cost of one pair of specially made orthopaedic shoes per year.
*	Medical Appliances
Rental or purchase of an iron lung, wheelchair, respirator, or hospital-type bed as deemed necessary by the attending physician, to a lifetime maximum of $1,000 per person. Rentalor purchaseof other prescribed medicalequipment'up to a lifetime of $250 per person.
71
*	Blood and Hood Plasma
Charges for blood and blood plasma if not available free of charge through the Red Cross Bank
*	Wigs
Eligible expensesshall indudethe cost ofwigs requiredasa result of accidental i nj u ry or illness, upto a lifetimeof $1,000 per person.
*	Cardiac Rehabilitation
A benefit payment of up to $300 Lifetime maximum for Cardiac patients requiring the services of a recognized Cardiac Rehabilitation program.
CLAIMING FOR EXTENDED HEALTH BENEFITS CLAIMING FOR PRESCRIPTION DRUGS In Manitoba,employeesshouldsubmit photocopiesofPharmacare receipts with an Extended Health Claim form to be reimbursed.
In other areas, and in Manitoba if pharmacare receipts are not available, employees should submit the Claim Form along with itemized receipts (specifying name of drug) for reimbursement. (Claimsfor prescription drugs may be made at any time during the year. To assure prompt processingand reimbursement, employees should submit drug claims to Blue Cross as soon as total drug expenses exoeed the Pharmacare dedudible).
CLAIMING FOR OTHER EXPENSES Claimsfor other eligible expensesunderthe Extended Health Caie program must be submitted on Extended Health Caie forms and supported with itemized receipts. Claim forms are available from your Personnel Administrator.
(Before mailing your claim, please ensure that you have identified yourselfwith your group numberand contract number- shown on yourldentification Certificate - andthatthe Claim Form e signed).
72
CLAIMING FOR 'TRAVEL HEALTH" EXPENSES
Blue Cross covers hospital, medicaland surgical expense in excess of what is covered underyour provincial Medicare plan. Employee should first submit a claim, for all expenses incurred, to their provincial health plan. Any expenses not covered by the provincial plan should then be claimed from Blue Cross.
CO-ORDINATION OF BENEFITS
This situation may arise if both spouses in a family are regularly employed and healthplansare provided at both places of employment. Under the'Co-ordination of Benefits"provision included in all health plans, you are entitled to claim benefits from both plans, as long as the total benefits do not exceed the health expenses actually incurred.
In order to obtainthese additional benefits, please ensure that you complete the appropriate section of the claim form.
EXTENDED HEALTH CLAIM FORM CHANGES IN STATUS REPORTING CHANGES
The employee must notify the Personnel Administrator and Blue Crosswithin sixty (60) days of change in his/her own or dependent's status resulting from marriage,divorce, death, changeof residence, birth or legal adoption.
The majorityof status changes may be reported to Blue Cross using 'Notice of Change" form available from the Personnel Administrator.
BIRTH
Newly born children of the employee and spouse may be added to the Plan as dependents at the request to the employee, provided such request is made in writing within 60 days from date of birth. DIVORCE
In the event of divorce of the employee and spouse, the divorced
73
spouse and/or dependent children of the employee may apply for continuationof coverage (excludingany Dentalcoverage) with Blue Cross provided such request is made in writing within 60 days, TERMINATION OF EMPLOYEE
Group coverage is terminated when the employee terminates employment with the Company. Once notice of termination has been received by Blue Cross, the Subscriberwill be contacted by mail and offered an opportunity to continue his/her coverage privately.
NOTE:	Employees enrolled in this group plan shall not be
permittedto opt out while still employed by the Company except in the event of duplication coverage. If this situation arises the employee'srequesttocancel must be receivedby BlueCrosswithin 60 days of the effective date of the new plan.
IMPORTANT
This booklet contains importantinformationconcerningyour group insurance coverage and should be kept in a safe place. It super-sedesand replaces all previous communication material.
As of January 1,1992, all benefitsare provided through Confederation Life.
This booklet summarizes the benefitsand provisionsofyour Group Plans. It does not constitute the Group Policies and isnotacontract of insurance, nor does it create or confer any contractual or other rights. Every effort has been made to ensure that the information is accurate. However, if there is any questions as to interpretation, all rightswith respectto a covered personwill be governed solely by the Group Policies issued by Confederation Life Insurance Company to Molson Breweries.
Please contact your local Personnel Department for any further information.
74
SCHEDULE OF BENEFITS DEATH AND ACCIDENT PROTECTION PLANS
BASIC LIFE INSURANCE PLAN (GL39020-67) AND BASIC ACCIDENTAL DEATH AND DISMEMBERMENTPLAN (GH39023)
—	Effective June 1,	1994:	$40,000
—	Effective June 1,	1995:	$41,000
—	Effective June 1,	1996:	$42,000
DISABILITY INCOME PLAN
WEEKLY INDEMNITY BENEFIT (QH 85020-67)
Amount 70% of weekly basic earnings subject to a maximum
benefit period of 26 weeks
LONGTERM DISABILITY BENEFIT(GH 85022-67)
Amount 66 2/3% of weekly or monthly earnings
HEALTH CARE PLAN
DENTAL BENEFIT (GH 85021-67)
Employee and dependants 100% of Basic Services, 75% of Major Services, and 50% of Orthodontic Treatment, to a maximum of $1,000 perperson percalendaryearfor Basic Services,and$4,000 lifetime per personfor Major Services and OrthodonticTreatment combined.
NOTE:	You will be covered for the benefits indicated above,
provided eligibility requirementshave been met and application for the applicable benefits has been made.
GENERAL INFORMATION PLANS EFFECTIVE DATE
The Plans described in this booklet are up to date as of January 1, 1992.'
ELIGIBILITY
All permanentfull-time employeeswho are members (f the United Food and Commercial Workers Union, Local 330W, residing in
75
Canada are eligible to participate in these plans.
If you have dependants residing in Canada, you may insure them as well. Yourspouse* and your marriedchildren(indudingadopted and stepchildren) who are less than 21 years of age are eligible. Unmarried children who are 21 years of age or older, who are fulltime students and dependant uponyou for support and whomyou can claim as an income tax deduction, will be eligible.
Any mentally or physically handicapped child may remain covered past the maximum age. The child, upon reaching maximum age, must still be incapable of self-sustaining employment and to be completely dependent on you for support and maintenance. 'Spouse means a person of the opposite sex who either.
a)	is marriedthrough an ecclesiasticalor civil ceremonyto an employee, or
b)	although not legally married to an employee, cohabits with the employee in a husband or wife relationship, which is recognized as such inthecommunity in which they reside, for at least 1 year at the time of application (or, ifyouarethe naturalor adoptive parents of a child, in a relationship of some permanence).
EFFECTIVE DATE OF COVERAGE
Your coverage as well as your dependants', is effective on the date you complete the waiting period specified in your Collective Agreement.
If you are initially covered for employee coverage, and lateracquire a dependant, your dependant will be enrolled in the Plans. You should advise your employer, as soon as possible, of your change in status.
If you are not actively at work on the date your coverage would normallybecome effective, coveragewill commence on your return to work for full-time and full pay.
Ifone of your dependants is hospitalized (other than a new-born infant) on the date coverage would normally become effective,
76
coverage will commence on the day following discharge from the hospital. Once you are covered for dependant coverage, additional dependants will be covered from the date eligible, regardless of hospital confinement.
CHANGE IN BENEFITS
Ifyou are not actively at work on the date a change to your coverage would normally become effective, the change will occur on your return to work for full-time and full pay.
If one of your dependants is hospitalized (other than a new-born infant) on the date (f coverage would normally become effective, the change will occur on the day following discharge from the hospital.
DEATH & ACCIDENT PROTECTION PLANS BASIC LIFE INSURANCE PLAN
Ifyou should die, regardlessof the cause, $40,000 will bepaidto your beneficiary. This amount will be increasedto $41,000 effective June 1,1995, with afurther increaseto $42,000 effectiveJune 1, 1996.
Payment of benefit and changes in beneficiary designation are subject to applicable government legislation. If there is no beneficiary the benefit is payable to your estate.
BASIC DEATH AND DISMEMBERMENT PLAN
This plan offers you 24-hour protection against covered accidents
occurring anywhere in the world.
"Coveredaccident” means an accident causingdeathorbodiiy injury while you are covered underthis Plan, unless specifically excluded. PAYMENT OF BENEFIT
The principalamount of the Accidental Death and Dismemberment Benefit for which you are insured is equal to the amount of your Basic Life Insurance Benefit.
The percentage of the principal amount payablevaries, depending on the extent of the loss, as shown in the following table.
77
SPECIFIED LOSS
The benefit for Specified Loss is payable if, as a result of a covered accident, you should suffer a loss within 365 days of the accident, as specified below.
Specified Loss	Amount Payable
Life.....................................................!00%
Both hands or both feet...............................100%
Sight of both eyes.....................................  100%
One hand and one foot.................................100%
One hand and sight of one eye.........................100%
One foot and sight of one eye............................100%
One arm or one leg.......................................100%
One hand or one foot.....................................100%
Sight of one eye.........................................100%
Thumb and index finger of	the same	hand...........33	1/3%
At least four fingers of the	same hand...............33	1/3%
All toes on one foot.................................16	2/3%
Hearing in both ears and speech..........................100%
Speech...............................................66	2/3%
Hearing in both ears.................................66	2/3%
Hearing in one ear...................................16	2/3%
Use of both hand or both feet............................100%
Use of one arm or one leg.................................75%
Use of one hand or one foot...........................66 2/3%
Hemiplegia.............................................  100%
Paraplegia...............................................100%
Quadriplegia.............................................100%
78
If you suffer more than one loss as a result of the same accident, the total benefit payable will not exceed the principle amount for which you are insured.
No more than one loss, the largest, is payable for multiple injuries to the same limb.
'Loss of life" means death resulting from one of the following:
1.	An accidental injury visible on the surface of the body or disclosed by an autopsy.
2.	A disease or infection resulting directly from an accidental injury.
3.	An accidental drowning.
BENEFICIARY
In the event of your death, the benefit is payable to the beneficiary you designated under the Basic Life Insurance Plan. If your beneficiary dies before you or there is no beneficiary, the benefit is payable to your estate. All other benefits are payable to you. Benefit payments are changes in beneficiarydesignationare subject to applicable government legislation.
EXPOSURE AND DISAPPEARANCE
The benefit of Specified Loss will also be payable if, as a result of a covered accident, you suffer a specified loss due to unavoidable exposure to the elements, within 365 days of the accident.
If as a result of the disappearance, wrecking or sinking of the conveyance in which you were riding at the time of a covered accident, you disappear,and the body is not found within one year following the accident, the benefit for the loss of life will be payable on the presumption of death due to the accident.
REHABILITATIONEXPENSES
If as a result of a covered accident, you suffer a loss and must participate in a rehabilitation program in order to qualify for employment, reimbursement will be made for reasonable and necessaryexpensesactually incurredwithin 3 consecutiveyears of
79
the accident.
The maximum benefit is $25,000. Travelling, clothing and living expenses ate not eligible.
REPATRIATION EXPENSES
Ifyou should die as a result of a covered accidentwhich occurs 50 kilometresor more from home, reimbursementwill be made for reasonableand necessaryexpenses actually incurredfor preparation of the body and transportationto the first resting place nearest home.
The maximum benefit is $25,000.
FAMILYTRANSPORTATION EXPENSES
Ifyou suffer a loss as a result of a covered accident and are confined
to a hospital which is 150 kilometres or more from home, reimbursementwill be madefor reasonableandnecessary expenses actually incurred by a member of the immediate family as follows:
1.	For hotel accommodation inthe vicinity of the hospital.
2.	For transportation to and from the hospital. When transportation is by other than a vehicle licensed for fare-paying passengers, $.20 per kilometre will be payable.
The maximum benefit is $10,000.
'Memberofthe lmmediateFamily"meansaperson at Ieast18years of age who isyour spouse, child, parent, brother, sister, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, father-in-law, mother-in-law, brother-in-law or sister-in-law.
DEPENDENT EDUCATION EXPENSES
Ifyou should die as a result of a covered accident, reimbursement will be made for tuition expensesactuallyincurredafteryourdeath for each childwho isenrolledasafull-time student at an accredited instituteof higher learning above the secondary school level. Postsecondary tuition expenseswill also be paid for each child who is enrolledat the secondary school level, providedthe child enrols as
80
a full-time student at an institute above the secondary school level within 365 days after your death.
The maximum benefit perchild peryearisthe lesser of 5% of your principal amount or $5,000, to r a maximum of 4 years. Travelling, clothing and living expenses are not eligible.
SPOUSAL OCCUPATIONAL TRAINING EXPENSES
Ifyou should die as a result of a covered accident, and your spouse who is underage 70 requiresformal occupational training in order to qualify for employment in an occupationfor which your spouse is not sufficiently qualified, reimbursement will be made for reasonable and necessary expenses actually incurred for such a program within 3 years following the accident.
The maximum benefit is $25,000. Travelling, clothing and living expensesare not eligible.
SEAT BELT BENEFIT
Ifyou die as a result of a covered accident while driving or riding in an automobile, an additional amount equal to 25% of the PrincipalAmount mentioned under "PAYMENT OF Benefit" will be paid, provided all the following conditions are met:
a)	The automobile is equipped with seat belts.
b)	The seat belt was in actual use and properly fastened at the time of the accident.
c)	The position of the seat belt is certified in the official report of the accident bythe investigating police officer.
'Automobile' as used in this provision means a motorized land vehicle which does not operate on rails or crawler treads, not including a two-wheeled vehicle, farm-type tractor, or any equipment which is primarily designedfor off-road use.
EXCEPTIONS
No benefitwill be payablefor any claimarisingas a direct or indirect result of:
81
1. Suicide or self-inflicted injuries while sane or insane.
2.	\Nar, or any act of war, whether declared or not.
3.	Service in the armed forces of any country which is in a state of war.
4.	Riding in, boardingor leaving, ordescending from, any aircraft i f
a)	you are a pilot, the operator, ora member of the crew.
b)	the aircraft is owned, operated or leased by or on behalf of the employer, except on the aircraft registeredas C-GMOL with a seating capacity of 6 passengers.oranyotheraircraftof like design and capacity asthe aircraft owned bythe policy-holder or chartered or leased as temporary substitute or replacementaircraft.
c)	the aircraft e piloted by an unlicensed person.
d)	the aircraft does not have a valid certificate of air worthiness.
DISABILITY INCOME PUNS WEEKLY INDEMNITY BENEFIT
Ifyou are totally disabled, unableto work, and underthe continuing care of a physician, you will receives week benefit of 70% of your weekly earnings, plusanyunionnegotiatedincreases sincethe date of disability.
Totally disabled' meansthe inabilityto work at your own job for youremployerforwages or profit, due to bodily injury orsickness, and are not engaging i n any other occupation o r employment for wages or profit.
'Earnings' are defined as your basic hourly rate multiplied by the regular number of hours per week
Your weekly benefit will be reduced by any income you are eligible to receive from the following sources:
82
1.	Any plan of automobile insurance providing income replacementindemnity,which has beenapprovedasan acceptable limitation by the Unemployment Insurance Commission.
2.	Any amount of income provided under any retirement or pension plan of the employer after the Weekly Indemnity benefit has been payable for a period of 15 weeks during any one period of disability.
3.	Any indemnrtyforloss oftime providedunderanyother-group insurance plan or group pre-payment plan.
4.	Disability benefits payable under Canada/Quebec Pension Plan excluding those benefits payable to you on' behalf of a dependent.
The amount of benefit payable by Manulife will not be affected by changes in your Canada or Quebec Pension Plan benefit unless the changes resuit from:
1.	Acorrectionduetoan errormadewhen youraward was originally determined.
2.	Achange of 10% or more inthe benefit formula under the government plan.
3.	Any indemnity for loss of time providedunderanyother group insurance plan or group pre-payment plan.
4.	Disabilitybenefits payable under Canada/Quebec Pension Plan excluding those benefits payable to you on
behalf of a dependent.
The amount of benefit payable by Manulife will not be affected by changes .in your Canada or Quebec Pension Plan benefit unless the changes result from:
'1. A correction due to an errormadewhen youraward was originally determined.
2.	Achangeof 10% ormoreinthe benefit formula under the government plan.
83
Manulife reserves the right to estimate the amount of the Canada or Quebec Pension Plan award pending advice of the actual award.
COMMENCEMENTOF BENEFITS
Your benefits will commence on the earlier of:
1.	The 4th working day of a disability due to an accident.
2.	The4th working day of a disability'caused bysickness,but not before the date that you have been seen and treated personally by a physician.
MAXIMUM BENEFIT PERIOD
Duringany one period of disability, your benefitswill continue until you recover or have received a maximum of 28 weeks in benefits, whichever is earlier.
CESSATION OF BENEFIT PAYMENTS
Your weekly payments will cease on the earliest of the following
events:
1.	The date you are no longer totally disabled.
2.	The dateyou have received benefit paymentsfor26 weeks.
3.	The date you fail to undergo, when requested by Manulife, a physical examination and/or mental evaluation.
4.	The dateyou fail to providefurther proof of total disability as requested by Manulife.
5.	If you should die.
RECURRENT DISABILITIES
Once you have been disabled and have receivedbenefits underthis Plan, a later disability will be defined as recurrent when it is separated from the previous one by less than 10 consecutive working days f full-time active employment.
A disability will be considered to be recurrent if it results from an injury or sickness which is directly related to the causes of the
84
immediately preceding disability.
If any period of disability is classified as 'recurrent' it will be treated as a continuation of the previous disability. You will not have to resatisfy any qualifying periods which may apply. Payments will continueforthe remainder of the maximumbenefit period, and the weekly benefit will be based upon the same earnings level as at the original date of disability, plus any union negotiatedincreases since the date of disability.
Noie:	If after a period of disability, you return to full-time active
employment for at least one full day and again become totally disabled as a result of an injury or sickness which is not related to the cause of the preceding period of disability, this subsequent disability will not be considered'Recurrent* and would be treated as a new claim.
LONG TERM DISABILITY BENEFIT
The Long Term Disability Benefit provides income security should you become totally disabled and remain SO over a long period of time. In order to receive and continue to receive this benefit, you must remain under the continuing care of a physician.
Your benefit will be 66 2/3% of your weekly or monthly earnings as of the date your disability commenced, but including any union negotiated increases during the 104 week period immediately following the date of disability.
'Earnings" are defined as your basic hourly rate multiplied by the regular number of hours per week.
This amount will be reduced by other income you may be entitled to receive from the following sources:
1.	Disability benefits payable under the Canada/Quebec Pension Plan, excluding benefits payable on behalf of your dependents.
2.	Earning or payments from any employer.
3.	Disability benefits payable under any other group, association or franchise insurance plan.
85
4.	Disability and income replacement benefits payable under any government plan (excluding Unemployment Benefits),
5.	Benefits payable underanyworker's compensationact.
6.	Retirementor pension benefits provided by an employer and/or a government.
7.	Income replacement indemnity payable underany plan of automobile insurance, if applicable.
The benefit, as calculated, will be further reduced by any amount by which such benefit, plus the income from all sources just outlined (including Canada/Quebec Pension Plan Benefits payable to you on behalf of dependents), exceeds 100% of your gross predisability earnings includingany union negotiated increasesduring the 104 week period immediately following the date of disability). The amount of benefit payable by Manulife will not be affected by changes inyour Canadaor QuebecPension Plan benefit unlessthe changes result from:
1.	A correction due to an error made when your awards was originally determined.
2.	A change of 10% or more inthe benefitformula under the government plan.
3.	A change in dependent status (where applicable).
Any change due to a cost of living increase will not be taken into account.
PUBLIC PENSION PLANS
Your weekly or monthly benefit will not be reduced by disability benefits payableundera public person plan (CPP/QPP) untilactual determination of award has been made, if, at the time you submit your L.T.D. claim, you sign an agreementto reimburse Conferation Life. Otherwise, CPP/QPP benefitswhich have not beendetermined by the time your benefit e payable will be estimatedand deducted from your benefit.
86
Adj ustme nts to co rrect such paymentswill be madeaftertheaward has been determined.
COMMENCEMENTOF BENEFITS
Benefits begin again after a qualifying period of 26 weeks of continuous total disability. Claims should be submitted prior to completion of the qualifying period. While receiving benefits, continuing proof of total disability will be required by Manulife
For the first 78 weeks after completion of the qualifying period, benefit paymentswill be made on a weekly baskAfter the first 78 weeks of benefit payments, further payments will be made on a monthly basis.
CESSATION OF BENEFIT PAYMENTS
Your payments will cease on the earliest of the following events:
1.	The date you are no longer totally disabled.
2.	The first of the month coincident with or immediately followingthe date you reach age 65.
3.	The date you fail to provide further proof of total disability as requested by Manulife.
4.	The date you fail to undergo, when requested by Confederation Life, medical, psychiatric, psychological, educational and/or vocational examinationsby examiners selected by Manulife.
5.	The date you fail to undergo medical, psychiatric or psychologicaltreatment or participate ina rehabilitation program or alcoholism, drug addiction or substance abuse treatment program when recommended by Manulife.
6.	The date you are incarcerated in a prison or mental institution by authority of a criminal court.
7.	Thedateyouparticipateinanyoccupationforwagesor profit or any educational program other than a reha-
87
bilitation program approved by your physician and Manulife.
8.	On the day you die.
DEFINITION OF TOTAL DISABILITY
Totally disabled' meansyou are wholly and continuously disabled dueto illness or bodily injury and, asa result are not physically or mentally fit to perform the essential duties of any regular job available inthe bargainingunitduring the first 24 months. Afterthis time, you will be considered totally disabled provided you are unableto performthe essential duties of your normal occupation and any other occupation for which you are, or may become qualified by education, training and/or experience.
The availability of such occupations, jobs or work will not be considered in assessing your disability.
Confinement is not normally required. However, you must be under the regular care of a physician, and be prepared to attempt rehabilitativeemployment, or participated a rehabilitation program considered appropriate by Manulife.
Note:	If you must hold a government permit or license to
perform your duties you will not be considered totally disabled solely because such permit or license had been withdrawn or not renewed.
REHABILITATION
Long Term Disability benefits are designed to be paid during periods when you are disabled and cannot work. Often however, there will be a time when, although you are not fully recovered, you can work at some type of job and possibly earn an income. Therefore,you will be encouragedto participated a Rehabilitation program developed by Confederation Life's Rehabilitation Counsellors in consultation with your physician, employer and Rehab specialist.
In order to participate in a Rehab program not developed by Manulife, the program must be approved by Manulife.
88
Although most income is normally used to reduce L.T.D. benefits, inthecaseof Rehab, for a maximum of 24 months, only half of these weekly or monthly earnings will be used to reduce your L.T.D. payments.
NOTE:	While on Rehabyour incomefrom all sources cannot be
greater than 100% of your gross earnings prior to your disability. RECURRENT DISABILITIES
If you cease to be totally disabled at anytime during the qualifying period and become disabled again, due to the same cause, within 2 weeks, the qualifying period will be extended by the number of days during which you cease to be disabled.
Once you have been disabled and have received benefits under this Plan, a later disability will be defined as recurrent when it is separated from the previous one by Iessthan6 months of full-time active employment.
A disability will be considered to be recurrent if it results from an injury or sickness which is directly related to the causes of the immediately preceding disability.
Once you are receiving L.T.D. benefits, any period of disability which is classified as "recurrent' will betreatedasacontinuationof the previous disability. You will not haveto resatisfy the qualifying period, and benefits will begin again immediately. The weekly or monthly benefit will be based upon the same earnings level as the originaldate of disability,plus any union negotiated increasesinthe 104 week period immediately following date of disability. EXCEPTIONSAND LIMITATIONS (For Disability income flans)
Disability Benefits are not payable for the following:
1.	A disability caused by self-inflicted injuries or illness.
2.	A disability resulting from insurrection, war, service in the armed forces of any country, or participation in a riot.
89
3.	A disability which is the direct or indirect result of committing orattemptingto commit a criminal offence. In addition, Weekly Indemnity benefits will not be payable for:
1. A disability for which you are entitledto benefits under any workers' compensation act.
2.	A disability at any time when you are on vacation and receiving full pay.
3.	Cosmetic surgery or treatment, when so classified by Confederation Life, unless such surgeryortreatment is for accidental injury and commenced within 90 days of an accident.
Any disabilitydue to any cause will not be eligible for benefitsat any time when you are on leave of absence (including Maternity) or could be placedon such leave byyour employer inaccordancewith relevant government legislation or the leave agreed uponyou and your employer.
HEALTH CARE PLAN
DENTAL PLAN
The Dental Care Plan is intendedto assist you with the payment of certain dental expenses incurred by you and your spouse.
Costs for dental care treatments listed in the "Eligible Expense" section will be reimbursed to you based on the percentages indicated.
TREATMENT PLAN
In order for you and your dentist to learn in advance how much Manulife will pay and how much you will have to pay, it is recommended that a Treatment Plan be filed with Manulife when the total cost of the proposed dental work b expected to exceed$500. ThisTreatment Plan identifies coverage percentages, specific limits and the Dental Fee Guide allowance, before dental treatment commences. The Treatment Pian is not intendedto limit you in your choice of dentist; to tell you or your dentist what
90
treatment should be preformed; or to tell the dentist what fee to charge, not to guarantee reimbursement after coverage.
A Treatment Plan is a pian of dental treatment (including x-rays if required) showing the patient's dental needs, a written description of the proposedtreatment necessary in the professional udgement of the dentist, and the cost of the proposed treatment.
ELIGIBLE EXPENSES
Eligible expenses are those which are recommended as necessary by a physician or dentist, and are not in excess of the suggested fee for General Practitionersin the current ManitobaDenturist Fee Guide.
Dentaltreatments are considered eligible if performed by dentists and/or denturists who practice within the scope of their income.
There are several dental procedures which are covered by provincial Health Plans up to certain maximums. If the dentist or dental surgeon choose to charge more than the amount payable by the Provincial Plan, legislation in some provinces does not permit the excess charges to be eligible under this Plan.
Situations may arise where alternate methods of treatment may be available. It is solely up to you and your dentist to decide which method will be used. As the basis for determining 1st liability, Confederation Life reserves the right to use the least expensive method of treatment that will provide professionally adequate result.
Only those treatments listed are eligible.
Basic Services
Percentage Payable —100%
1.	The following services will be available for payment once every 6 months:
a)	Oral examinations.
b)	Prophylaxis (light scaling and polishing of teeth).
c)	Topical application of an anti-cariogenic agent
91
(fluoride).
d)	Bite-wing x-rays
2.	Full mouth series of x-rays, once every 24 months.
3.	Oral hygiene instruction, twice in any calendar year.
4.	Simplealveolectomy (incision into tooth socket) at time of tooth extraction.
5.	Surgical extractions, including extractions of impacted teeth.
6.	Surgical removal of tumours, cysts, neoplasms, plus the incision and drainage of an abscess.
7.	Surgical preparation of dental ridges for prosthetic appliances.
8.	Amalgam, silicate, acrylic and composite fillings.
9.	Provision of space maintainers for missing primary teeth, and provision of habit breaking appliances.
10.	Diagnostic x-ray and laboratory procedures required in relation to dental surgery.
11.	General anaesthetic required in relation to dental surgery.
12.	Consultation required by the attending dentist.
13.	Injection of antibiotic drugs when prescribed by a dentist.
14.	Nitrous oxide when used in dental treatment where another anaesthesia would be eligible.
15.	Necessary treatment for the relief of dental pain, including but not limited to sedative dressings and caries pain control.
92
Major Services Percentage Payable — 75%
1.	Crowns, including gold porcelain veneer restoration when other material is not available.
2.	Onlays when the major portion of the clinical crown is decayed, heavily filled or the cusps are fractured and cannot be restored using basic restorative series.
3.	Inlays when 3 or more surfaces are involved and the tooth cannot be restoredusing basic restorativematerials.
If only 1 or 2 tooth services are involved, the inlay will be consideredfor reimbursement as a restorative service under Basic Services and payment will be determined based on the cost of a comparableamalgam or composite restoration.
4.	Gold fillings when other material is not suitable.
5.	Relining, rebasing or the repair of an existing denture or existing bridge.
6.	The creation of an initial bridge or initial denture.
7.	The replacement of an existing bridge or denture, only under the following circumstances:
a)	If necessitated by the extraction of additional natural teeth while covered under this Plan.
b)	If the existing bridge or denture is at least 5 years old and cannot be made serviceable.
c)	If the existing bridge or denture is temporary and is replaced with a permanent bridge or denture within 12 months or the installation of the temporary.
8.	Other necessary oral surgical procedures not specifically listed under Basic Services, including but not limited to transplantation of an erupted tooth, alveol-pasty and gingivoplasty.
93
9.	Endodontic Treatment (ie. The treatment of disease of the dental pulp including root canal therapy).
10.	Periodontic Treatment (i.e. The treatment of thetissues and bones supporting the teeth including surgery, provisional splinting, occlusal equilibration).
11.	Supra- and sub-gingival scaling.
Othodontic Treatment
Percentage Payable — 50%
For dependentchildrenat Ieast6 years of age but lesst han 18 years of age at the commencement of treatment, all necessary dental treatment, which has as the objective the correction of malocclusion of the teeth.
MAXIMUM BENEFIT
The maximum benefitamount payable per individualforthe Basic Services is $1000 per calendar year. The lifetime maximum per individualfor MajorServicesandOrthodonticTreatmentcombined is $4,000. However, effective June 1,1992, up to $500 of your previous reimbursement for Major Services and Orthodontic Treatmentwill be reinstated each January 1 st as part of your overall maximum.
EXPENSES NOT COVERED (Health Cate Pian)
No payment will be made for expenses resulting from:
1.	Seif-inflicted injuries or illness while sane or insane.
2.	Any injury or illness for which the covered person is entitledto indemnity or compensation underanyworkers' compensation act.
3.	Charges levied by a physician or dentistfor time spent travelling, broken appointments, completion of claim documents, transportation costs, room rental charges or the advice given by telephone or other means of telecommunication.
94
4.	Cosmetic surgery or treatment (when so classified by Confederation Life) unlesssuchsurgery ortreatment is for accidental injuries and commenced with 90 days of an accident.
5.	Injury resulting directly or indirectly from insurrection, war, service in the armed forces of any country or participation in a riot.
6.	Services, treatments and supplies, eligible under this Plan and payable under any government plan, whether or not the claimant is covered under such plan.
7.	Examinations required for the use of a third party.
8.	Travel for health reasons.
9.	Dental treatment received from a dental or medical department maintainedby an employer, an association, or a labour union.
10.	The replacement of an existing dental appliance which has been lost, mislaid or stolen.
11.	Denial Services and supplies rendered for the full-mouth reconstruction, fora vertical dimension correction, orforacorrectiontotemporomandibularjoint dysfunction.
12.	Any charges for services, treatment or supplies for which therewould benochargeexceptforthe existence of coverage.
CLAIMS PROCEDURE
BASIC LIFE AND BASIC ACCIDENTAL DEATH COVERAGE
If you should die, your employer will providethe necessary claim form. Proof of death should be submitted as soon as reasonably possible.
INVESTMENTCHEQUING ACCOUNT
When a death benefit of $10,000 ormore’ is payable, the amount will be deposited into an investment chequing account in your
95
beneficiary's name. This account is a special savings/chequing account offered by Manulife which provides immediate investment at interest rates higher than those paid by the Canadian Chartered Banks on a daily interest savings accounts with free chequing privileges. The Investment Chequing Account's unique combination of excellent interestand completeaccessgivesyour beneficiary time to think and plan carefully.
An information package containing personalized cheques, a certificate, necessary claim forms and details concerning the account from ^our plans administrator.
for a death benefit of less than $10,000, a cheque for the entire lump sum amount will be sent to your beneficiary.
BASIC ACCIDENTAL DISMEMBERMENT BENEFIT
Your employer will provide the necessary claim forms. Proof of claim should be submitted within 90 days of the following event: For Specified Losses - the date of loss.
For Reimbursement Expenses - the date the expenses are incurred.
Non-duplication of Expenses
Intheeventthatyouarealsocovererdnderany otherbenefit, policy or plan providingsimilar coverage issued to your employer (except Voluntary Accidental Death & Dismemberment), claims may be made under both plans. Flowever, the total reimbursement received will not exceed the amount of expenses actually incurred. Claims should first be submitted under such other benefit, policy or plan and any portion of the expenses remaining unpaid will then be considered under this plan.
Disability income Plans
Claim forms are available from your employer. You must provide certain information and your doctor must complete the Attending Physician's statement. You are responsibleforthe costs associated with proof of disability. Once the forms are completed:
96
a)	For VNfeekly Indemnity — it should be sent to your employer who will completetheir portion, validate your coverage, and forward it to Manulife. Claims must be submitted wrthin 90 days of the commencementof total disability.
b)	For Long Term Disability - it should be sent to your employer who will complete their portion and forward it to Confederation Life. Claims should be submitted prior to completion of the qualifying period.
HEALTH CARE PLAN
You may submit claims at anytime; however, inorderto minimize administrative costs, we strongly recommendwhatyou accumulate receipts for a series of treatments.
When Dental expenses are incurred, obtain a claim form from your employer; have your dentist complete the form; complete your portion of the form, and return it to your employer, for validation, who will then forward it to Manulife.
Written proof of claim must be given to Manulife by the end of the calendar year following the year in which the expenses was incurred.
Dental claim payments are made payable to you unless you have previously authorized payment to a person and/or corporation which has rendered services, treatment or supplies.
When your coverage terminates for any reason, written proof of claim must be given to Manulife within 90 days of termination (f coverage.
CO-ORDINATION OF BENEFITS
There are established guidelines regarding the Order cf Benefits Determination, and generally, there is a Co-ordination of Benefits provision included in the dental policy which allows you, your spouse and children to submit claims under both plans. If a plan does not have such a provision, this plan must first pay for all members of the family. However, total reimbursement may not
97
exceed the actual expenses incurred.
When both plans include the provision, expenses should be submitted to the plan that covers the person as an employee first. For your children, expenses should first be submitted to the plan ofthespousewhose birthday falls first in the year. Any amount not paid may then be submitted to the other spouse’s plan.
When submitting claims under the second plan, include any information and payment details provided by the first plan. TERMINATION OF COVERAGE
Coverage foryou and your dependents will oease on the earliest of the following events:
1.	Termination of your employment.
2.	If you should die, except for the extension for your eligible dependents in the event of your death.
3.	On the date you retire. However, for Long Term Disability, coverage shall cease on the first of the month following cessation of employment.
4.	If you enter the armed forces on a full-time basis.
5.	Termination of the Plans or coverage on the Group, Division, or Class to which you belong.
6.	Cn the first of the month following the date you reach age 65 or less the qualifying period for Long Term Disability.
CONVERSION OPTIONS Basic Life Insurance
If your individual coverage terminates or reduces, but group coverage continues, you may convert your Basic Life coverage to an individual life insurance policy. This amount must be equal to or less than the Basic Life amount, which is being terminated or reduced, subjecttoanoverall maximum of $200,000. The individual life insurance policy will be issued without proof of satisfactory health provided the completed application form, along with the
98
necessary premium, is mailed to Manulifewithin 31 days of the date of termination or reduction.
The types of policies available for conversion are:
1.	Term Insurance for a 1 year period which, before the year has passed, maybe converted (without evidence of insurability)to any of the policies described in points2 or 3 below.
2.	Non-convertible Term Insurancefor coverage upto age 65. .
3.	Any regular plan of life insurance.
The conversion policywill not include disability, double indemnity, dismemberment of accidental death provisions.
If you die during the 31 dayperiod in which youareeligibleto make applicationfor conversion,theamount of your Basic Life Insurance available for the purpose will be payable to your beneficiary or estate, whether or not you applied for conversion.
Certain conversion rights are also available on policy termination. Details on conversions may be obtained from your Employerorthe Group Administration Departmental Manulife's Home Office, Basic Accidental Death and Dismemberment Plan If your coverage terminates, but group coverage continues, you may convert your Basic Accidental Death and Dismemberment coverageto an individual A.D. & D. insurance policy. This amount must be equal to or less than your principal amount, subjectto a maximumof $200,000 (inclusive of any Voluntary Accidental Death and Dismemberment coverage). The individual policy will be issued without proof of satisfactory health provided the completed application form, along with the necessary premium, is submitted to Confederation Life within 31 days of the date of termination. The individual policywill be the type issued by Manulife underthe A.D. & D. conversion plan which is available atthattime, providing a benefit for Specified Loss only, and will not include dependent coverage, disability of expense reimbursement benefits.
99
If you suffer a loss during the 31 day period inwhichyouareeligible to makeapplicationfor conversion, the appropriate benefitfor such loss, (calculated as a percentage of the principalamount available for conversion), will be payable whether or not you applied for conversion, provided no claim for such loss has been paid under the individual policy.
EXTENSION OF BENEFITS
Disability Income Pians
Ifyou are totally disabled on the date ofterminationof coverage for any reason, and such disability continuesuninterrupted,you will be eligible to receive Wekly Indemnity Benefits for such disability, until the date total disability ceases, or the date on which the maximum V\feekly Indemnity Benefit is received, whichever is earlier.
Long Term Disability benefits will extend beyond your termination date, provided you become disabled while you were still covered subjectto the Maximum Benefit Period. Benefitswill continueto be paid according to the policy provisions, regardless of the subsequent termination of the Group Policy. Manulife reservesthe right to require that while you are in receipt ofL.T.O, income, you furnish proof of the continuance of total disability, and submit to an examination by Manulife's medical advisors when requested.
Health Care Pian
In most cases no Dental benefits are payable for expenses incurred after the date your coverage terminates, even if a Treatment Plan has been filed and benefits have been determined by Manulife prior to the dateyourcoverage terminates. However, benefits are payable under the following circumstances:
1. Wien an impressionfor a denture, bridge, crown, inlay or only had beentakenpriortothedateofyourcoverage terminated and the denture isinstalledafterthecoverage terminates. Dental expenses in connection with this procedure, and incurred within 30 days after the termination of coverage, are eligible.
100
2. If your coverage terminates due to your death, dental expenses incurred on behalf of your dependents will be eligible for the payment provided:
a)	the services are rendered within 90 days following your death, and
b)	They are part of a series of planned dental services started prior to your death or rendered at definite dental appointments made prior to your death.
3.	If payments for orthodontic treatment have commenced, benefits will continue for a period of 3 consecutive months.
DEPENDENT COVERAGE EXTENSION
Dependent coverage for Dental may be extended after your death
until the end of the month in which you die.
101
ADDENDUM TO THE COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT BETWEEN
MOLSON BREWERIES, WINNIPEG BREWERY AND
UNITED FOOD & COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION, Local 330W (THE PARTIES)
"A PARTNERSHIP AGREEMENT'
This agreement regardingthe terms and conditionsof employment and the Winnipeg Philosophy shall constitute an addendum to the current Collective Agreement between Molson Breweriesand the United Food and Commercial Workers International Union, Local 330W.
The said Agreement shall expire coincidentally with the current CollectiveAgreemerrt between Molson Breweriesand United Food & Commercial Workers International Union, Local 330W. The purpose of this agreement is to establish an enabling framework within which an organizational system can be sustained that will ensure an efficient and competitive operationand provide meaningful work and job satisfaction for employees.
1.0	WINNIPEG PHILOSOPHY
1.1	The Company and Union Executive agree to establish a process wherein all employees at the Wnnipeg facility (staff employees from all functions and production employees) will participate in a process to develop meaningful 'Mission State-menf. This Mission Statement will include a commitment to producing products of superiorquality in a safe and cost effective manner and will embrace the need to continuously improve operating performance. The Mission Statement will also describe the workplace needed to support an environment of co-operation and continuous improvement.
1.2	The Company and union Executive recognize that the
102
foundations for success of the Winnipeg Brewery are teamwork, continuous improvement, equality, mutual trust and respect, dignity, fair reward and a balance betweenwork and other aspects of life. The purpose of this Agreement is to provide the framework for the achievement of the Winnipeg Brewery Vision and Mission.
1.3	The parties recognize that to achieve the most effective overall results, it is necessary that a climate exists which will encourage initiative, experimentation,and generation of new ideas, supported by an open and meaningful two-way communication system.
2.0	UNION / MANAGEMENT PARTNERSHIP
The parties recognize and agree that a strong union-management partnership, in key areas of the business, is an essential ingredientforthe continuous improvement of the Winnipeg Brewery operation. The partnershipfacilities direction-setting, policy, and administration, andallowsforflexible rules. Both parties derive strength from the relationship and add value to each other's operations.
Within this context, the partiesagreethe following issues through joint committees or the established Union/Management Committee: planning for operational changes, human resource planning (e.g. manpowerforecasting based on projectedvolume, training plans for skilled upgrades), new technology, and major product and market changes.
The parties ag ree to maintain an environment of continuous dialogue on all issues affecting the overall effectiveness and competitiveness of the Winnipeg Brewery. In addition, the parties jointly accept the proposition that this is an evolutionary process of building trust.
3.0	JOINT STEERING COMMITTEE
The parties agree to establish a six (6) member Joint Steering Committee(JSC) comprising of equal representatiorfrom the Union, Employees (production and salaried employees) and Company. The role of the Joint Steering Committee will be to
103
develop a framework for the full participation of the VWnnipeg workforce. The JSC represents an equal partnership between the parties in the continued development, implementation and monitoring of employee participationprocesses (workgroups/crews, job re-design, informationandtraining activities, Engineeringprojects). The JSC will be guided by the following principles:
(i)	we want to create a safe and health workplace that will ensure that the Winnipeg Brewery is an efficient competitive world class brewery;
(ii)	we believe that employees are responsible and trustworthy, capable of working together effectively and of making decisions related to satisfying their customers giventhatthey havethe necessary information, training and authority; and
(iii)	we believethatadimatewillexistamongallemployees and managers where there is trust, openness, honesty, fairness, equality and respect supported by an efficient two-way communication system.
4.0	CREWS
4.1	Employeesare organized into crews based on the natural work groups within the brewery's operations. A CREW will consist of bargaining unit employees in designated work areas and may have the following supporting resources
(i)	maintenance;
(ii)	shift engineers;
(iii)	quality control staff; and
(iv)	supervision
Additional supporting resources will be provided as required.
4.2	Thefollowingworkareas have been designated as natural process boundariesfor CREWS:
(i)	Brewhouse/Fermenting Crew;
(ii)	Filtration/Racking Crew;
104
(iii)	Soaker Infeed Crew;
(iv)	Soaker Discharge/Filler;
(v)	Pasteurizer Discharge/Labeller/Carton Make-up/Pack-ers;
(vi)	Palletizer/Shipper & Receiving Crew (Vii) Relief Clean-Up Crew; and
(viii)	Engineering & Maintenance Crews.
4.3	Initially, the role of the CREWS will be as follows:
(i)	to meaningfully participateinthe decisionswhich affect them (e.g. equipment modifications, training, new procedures);
(ii)	to develop and maintain a high level of technical and team skills;
(iii)	to assist in training other employees;
(iv)	to set measurable performance goals with a view to continuously improving results;
(v)	to review actual results versus performance targets/ goals; and
(vi)	to actively seek improvements and to develop action
plans for implementation.
It is anticipated that the Joint Steering Committee (JSC) will facilitate the evolution of the CREW framework into a broader employee participation process over a reasonable period of time. Itis understoodthatthe developmentof these teams or CREWS will take place through the formation of natural functional groups and they will evolve to more cross-functional communications and processes.
Itis also understoodthattherewillbeagrowing demandfortraining to maximizethe effectiveness of the CREWS and the JSC agrees to address the best use of the training resources.
105
5.0	JOB RE-DESIGN
The parties agree that increasingthe involvement of employees in soft maintenance of equipment and quality control (product and materials) by providingthe necessarytraining and certificationwill benefit the overall operation of the Winnipeg Brewery.
5.1	Soft Maintenance by Operators
5.1.1	The Company will provide in-house training on Soft Maintenance for posted Operators and the Relief Crew in all departments. As examples, Soft Maintenance includes: set-ups; change-overs; some component replacement; lubrication, preventative maintenance inspection, and adjustments. It is understood that the trades personnel will assist in the development, instructionand Certification of Soft Maintenance skills.
5.1.2	Employees who successfully complete the in-house training and demonstrate the application of the new skills will be certified as qualified Soft Maintenance' Operators or Relief Crew. The application of new skills will be determined by written and/or practical tests. A training record will be maintained where the trainer(s) and trainee will note and acknowledgethe nature of the training and certification.
5.1.3	It is understood that all Operators and Relief Crew must attain the applicable Soft Maintenance certification for their equipment/area by June 1, 1995 or such date that may be mutually agreed upon by the Joint Steering Committee.
5.1.4	In the event an individual, who is currently posted, is unsuccessful in obtaining his/her certification after the initial training,the Company, Unionand individualemployeewill meetto develop a specific training plan. If the developed training pian is unsuccessful in assisting the employee achieve his/her certification by June 1,1995 ora date mutuallyagreed betweenthe Company and the Union, the employee wilf be re-assigned. Employees who are re-assigned as a result of not achieving certification will have their hourly rate red-circled and will be transferred to the unposted pool.
106
5.1.5	It is understoodthat, in addition to current job skills, Soft Maintenance certification will be considered the qualifications to maintain an operator or relief crew position with effect from June 1,1995. The Company will providetrainingtoan individualawarded with a posting under Article 5.08 — Seniority, Promotion and Preferred Jobs. In order that the employee has the opportunity to obtain his/her certification. The Joint Steering Committee will establish a reasonable deadline for attainment of certification.
5.1.6	It is understood that the Company intends to schedule posted Operators who hold their Soft Maintenance certification to assist the Maintenance/trades CREW in overhauls of his/her equipment.
5.1.7	The Joint Steering Committee (JSC) outlined in section
3.0	of the Addendum will participate inthe continued development, implementation and monitoring of job re-design training for Soft Maintenance. The JSC will develop a training plan to achieve the certification of posted operators and relief crew in all departments by June 1,1995 or such later date as mutually agreed upon by the JSC.
5.2	Quality Control By Operators
5.2.1	The Company will provide in-house training on Quality ControlTestsfor Operators and the Relief Crew in all departments, /te examples, Quality Control Monitoring (Test and Necessary action to correct) includes: dissolved oxygen, C02; fill levels; torque's; caustic carry-over; titration; PU measurements; gravity's; water tests; temperatures; haze; in-coming materials;and full good inspections.
5.2.2	Employees who successfully complete the in-house training and demonstratethe application of the new skills will be certified as qualified 'Quality Control Monitoring' Operators or Relief Crew. The application of the newskills will be determined by written and/or practical tests. Atraining recordwill be maintained where the trainer(s) and the trainee will note and acknowledge the nature of the training and certification.
107
5.2.3	It is understoodthat all Operatorsand Relief Crew must attain the applicable Quality Control Monitoring certification for their responsibilities by June 1, 1995 or such date as mutually agreed upon by the Joint Steering Committee.
5.2.4	In the event an individual, who is currently posted, is unsuccessful in obtaining his/her certification after the initial training, the Company, Unionand individual employee will meetto develop a specific training plan. If the developed training plan is unsuccessful in assisting the employee achieve his/her certification by June 1,1995 or a date mutually agreed between the Company and the union, the employee will be re-assigned. Employees who are re-assigned as a result of not achieving certification will have their hourly wage rate red-circledand will be transferred to the unposted pool.
5.2.5	It is understoodthat, in addition to current job skills, Quality Control Monitoring certification will be considered qualifi-cationsto maintain an Operatoror Relief Crew position with effect from June 1, 1995. The Company will provide training to an individualawarded with a posting under Article 5.08 Seniority Re: Promotion and Preferred Jobs in order that the employee has the opportunity to obtain his/her certification. The Joint Steering Committee will establish a reasonable deadline for attainment of certification.
5.2.6	It is understood that the Company intends to establish quality problem-solvingmeeting to address specific concerns and Operators who hold their Quality control Monitoring certification will actively participate in these meetings.
5.2.7	The Joint Steering Committee (JSC) outlined in section
3.0	of this Addendum will participate in the continued development, implementation and monitoring of job re-designtrainingfor Quality Control Monitoring. The JSC will develop a training plan to achieve the certification of posted Operatorsand Relief Crew in all departments by June 1.1995 or such later date as mutualbaareed upon by the JSC.
108
6.0	Relief Crew
6.1	The ReliefCrewwillconductameetingto review and plan the training, certification and/or upgrading required to supply effective reliefto the various Crews.
6.2	Members of the Relief Crew will be assigned based on certification, skills opportunity to remain current on a variety of equipment, andthe impactof relief requirements/viththe composition of skills within the Relief Crew.
109
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
June 1,1994
Mr. R. Warner, Plant Chairman Union Shop Committee— Local330W United Food and Commercial Workers 303 - 275 Broadway Avenue Winnipeg, Manitoba R3C 4M6
Dear Mr. Warner:
RF Overtime
As discussed during negotiations,it is hereby agreedthat overtime shall be voluntary, however, in such instances of overtime the Company shall poll employeesto work overtime and in the event insufficientemployees volunteerthen the CompanyshalI assign the junior qualified employeesto work such overtime.
FOR THE COMPANY:	FOR THE UNION:
L.M. M°Kenna Y.F. Naassan W.S. Bashucky DA. Richards
R. Warner L. Manning W. McDowell E. Terlecki A. Pope U. Bedarf R. Smyrichinsky
110
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
June 1,1994
Mr. R. Warner, Plant Chairman Union Shop Committee- Local 330W United Food and Commercial Workers 303 - 275 Broadway Avenue Winnipeg, Manitoba R3C 4M6
Dear Mr. Warner:
Re: Vacation Period
The Companywill agree that during the period of September 15th to September 30th of the summer vacation period identified in
12.06	afterthefinalizationofthesummervacationschedule, should there be any weeks in which additional seniority employees may take an extra week of vacation, every effort will be made by the Company in order to accommodate such employees. Also, it is understood that the granting of additional vacation during this period does not interfere with the efficient operation of the plant.
FOR THE COMPANY:
L.M. M'Kenna Y.F. Naassan W.S. Bashucky D.A. Richards
FOR THE UNION:
R. Warner L. Manning W. M'Dowell E.Terlecki A Pope U. Bedarf R. Smyrichinsky
111
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
Junel, 1994
Mr, R. Warner, Plant Chairman Union Shop Committee- Local330W United Food and CommercialWorkers 303 - 275 Broadway Avenue Winnipeg, Manitoba R3C 4M6
Dear Mr. Warner:
BL Bereavement Purina Vacation
The Company agrees to meet with the Union Committees to discuss allowing an employee who suffers a bereavement during his scheduled vabationto cancelhis vacation, exercisehis bereavement leave and pick up his remaining vacation at a later date.
FOR THE COMPANY:	FOR THE UNION:
L.M. McKenna Y.F. Naassan W.S. Bashucky DA. Richards
R, Warner L. Manning W. McDowell E. Teriecki A Pope U. Bedarf R, Smyrichinsky
112
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
June 1,1994
Mr. R. Warner, Plant Chairman Union Shop Committee- Local 330W United FOOD AND Commercial Workers 303 - 275 BroadwayAvenue Winnipeg, Manitoba R3C 4M6
Dear Mr. Warner;
RE: LETTER OF INTENT REGARDING SICKNESS BENEFITS
An employeeeligibility for sick days and participation inthe Weekly Indemnityand Longterm Disability Plans cease immediatelyupon his/her layoff and is reinstated upon his/her recall to work and completion of eight (8) hours work in the Bargaining Unit. Notwithstanding the above, an employee with ten (10) or more years seniority who is laid off, and who, if recalled within two (2) weeks or less, is unable to report to work due to sickness of nonoccupational accident, shall be eligible for participation in the Weeklylndemnityand LongTerm Disability Planseffectivethedate of his/her recall.
FOR THE COMPANY:	FOR THE UNION:
L.M. M'Kenna Y.F. Naassan W.S. Bashucky D.A. Richards
R. Warner L. Manning W. McDowell E Terlecki A. Pope U. Bedarf R. Smyrichinsky
113
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
June 14,1994
Mr. R. Warner, Plant Chairman Union Shop Committee - Local330W United Food and Commercial Workers 303 - 275 Broadway Avenue Winnipeg, Manitoba R3C 4M6
Dear Mr. Warner,
RE: Letter of IntentRenardinn PlantOnsure Forming Partotthe Collective Bargaining Agreement
In recognition of the Company's current statutory obligations and in further recognition of the adverse consequences of any plant closure upon employees the parties, duringthe 1988 negotiations, agreed to this letter of understanding regarding any plant closure which may occur during the life of the Agreement:
1.	The Company shall at least 90 days prior to any plant closure, notithelocal unionof itsintentiontoclosethe plant.
2.	Followingreceipt ofthe notification by the Companythe local Union may request that the Company meet with the local Unionto discuss any and all mattersarising as a consequence of the plant closure. The Company agrees that promptly upon receipt of such letter it will meet with the local Union and discuss with a view to resolving any matters arising as a consequence of the
114
plant closure.
3.	Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Company undertakes and agrees that it will:
(a)	Make all reasonable efforts to fill declared vacancies at any of itsoperations with regularemployees who have been laid-off as a resu It of plant closures.
(b)	Request that other Canadian brewing companies hire at any of their operations regular employees who have been laid off as a result of plant closure.
It is further understood that if the Company permanently discontinues an operation, the Company will provide regular employees with a reasonable period of training to facilitate an employee's seniority rights pursuant to the Collective Agreement.
Your truly,
D. A. Richards
Manager Personnel and Industrial Relations
115
■ LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
June 14,1994
Mr. R. Warner, Plant Chairman Union Shop Committee— Local330W United Food and Commercial Workers . 303 - 275 Broadway Avenue Winnipeg, Manitoba R3C 4M6
Dear Mr. Warner,
RE: G.W.P SECTION 10
This letterwill clarify the word 'Operation' inSectionlQ, paragraph 4 of the Guaranteed Wage Plan.
Operation will be interpreted as meaning:
1.	Plant, Branch or Warehouse.
2.	Department or part department in which 10 or more employees are permanently laid off.
FOR THE COMPANY: L.M. M'Kenna Y.F. Naassan W.S. Bashucky DA. Richards
FOR THE UNION:
R. Warner L. Manning W. M'Dowell E Terlecki A. Pope U. Bedarf R. Smyrichinsky
116
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
June 1,1994
Mr. R, Warner, Plant Chairman Union Shop Committee— Local330W United Food and Commercial Workers 303 - 275 Broadway Avenue Winnipeg, Manitoba R3C4M6
Dear Mr. Warner;
RE: Shoo Steward Payment
This will confirmthe agreement reached between the Company and the Union that, any shop steward attending committee meeting beyondhis/her regularscheduled hours shall be paidstraighttime for all additional time spent at such meeting.
FOR THE COMPANY:	FOR THE UNION:
L.M. M°Kenna Y.F. Naassan W.S. Bashucky D.A. Richards
R. Warner L. Manning W. M°Dowell E. Terlecki A Pope U. Bedart R. Smyrichinsky
117
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
June 1,1994
Mr. R. Warner, Plant Chairman Union Shop Committee— Local330W United Food and Commercial Workers 303 - 275 Broadway Avenue Winnipeg, Manitoba R3C 4M6
Dear Mr. Warner;
RE: Technological Change-Forming A Part of the Collective Agreement
The partiesagreethatduring the life ofthisagreementany reduction inthe workforce of the Companywill be the subject of negotiation with the Union. If the Company plans Plant closure, reduction to staff or anticipates that the introduction of technology in the form of new equipment or product distribution system, will result in employeeswhose immediate jobs are directly alteredthereby being placed in a different occupational classification, or being removed from their occupation classificationdueto lack of work, then when the Company knows the changes that are expected to apply to these employees, it will arrange for an early discussionof these changes with the Union.
The Company shall notify the Shop Committee and the Union ninety (90) days in advance of intent to institute changes in working methods of facilities, or the permanent closure of an operation, which would involve the laying off of employees.
118
Furthermore,ajoint Labour-Management committeewill be formed which will deal with; evaluating the options open to the Company, including justification for the change; its responsibility to the workers and the community; maintenance of earnings and separation pay; the feasibility of decreasing personnel through various methods such as attrition, transfer to other jobs, retraining, educational guidance and assistance, and early retirement.
Inagreeingto Clause 10.11 TechnologicalChange, it is understood that technological changes may be introduced by the Company as it considers desirableandthat employees may elect separation pay. The transfer to new jobs, retraining, early retirement, etc. will be subject to negotiation. It is further understood that separated employees will be eligible for re-employment bythe Company but senioritywould commence as of the date of re-hire except that any employee who had been discharged for cause would not be eligible for re-hire.
FOR THE COMPANY:
FOR THE UNION:
E. Terlecki A. Pope U. Bedarf
R. Smyrichinsky
119
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
June 1,1994
Mr. R. Warner, Plant Chairman Union Shop Committee - Local 330W United Food and Commercial Wbrkers 303 - 275 Broadway Avenue Winnipeg, Manitoba R3C 4M6
RE SUMMERSTUDENTS
Notwithstanding any provisions of the CollectiveAgreement, it has been mutually agreed betweenthe partiesthat effectiveimmediate-ly, the parties will recognize a distinct category of employees entitled 'Summer Students'.
The term under which "SummerStudent" will beengagedare limited to the following:
(a)	The Summer Student category will only be used for the calendar period commencing thesecond Monday in April and ending the Fridayfollowing Labour Day, unlessan extension is mutually agreed to by the parties.
(b)	"Summer Students' will be paid as follows:
First Summer Employment - Starting wage rate Second Summer Employment— Starting wage rate plus
$.50/hour
Third Summer Employment - Starting wage rate plus
$1.0Q/hour
120
(c)	Summer students will not accrue seniority, or recall rights. The following provisions of the collective agreement shall apply to summer students during their employment.
Article 1 — Bargaining Agent
Article 2 — Definitions
Article 9 - Hours of Work and Overtime
Article 10 — As it applies to Shift Differential
Article 14 — Grievance Procedurefor those articles that are
applicable underthis paragraph (c).
Article 18 — Term of Agreement
Summer students shall be entitled to vacation pay and all statutory holidayswhich are observed during the period of their employment. After completion of a summer assignment, a summer student shall be deemed to be terminated under the CollectiveAgreement and all rights thereunder shall be cancelled.
In selecting the individuals to be employed in this capacity, the following conditions must be satisfied:
(i)	The student has attained the age of majority prior to his/ her employment;
(ii)	The student is returning to an educational institution as a student at the conclusion of the summer period; and
(iii)	The student is suitably qualified to perform the various summer work assignments.
FOR THE COMPANY:
FOR THE UNION:
E. Terlecki A. Pope
121
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
June 1,1994
Mr. R. Warner, Plant Chairman
Union Shop Committee — Local Union 330W
United Food and Commercial Workers
303 - 275 Broadway Avenue
Winnipeg, Manitoba
R3C 4M6
Dear Mr. Warner;
RF- TOPI fll I nWAMCF
Regular maintenance employees (excluding shift engineers, painters and carpenters) will be provided with an annual tool allowance as follows:
Effective June 1,1994	$200.00
Effective June 1,1995	$200.00
Effective June 1,1996	$200.00
FOR THE COMPANY:
L.M. M°Kenna Y.F. Naassan W.S. Bashucky D.A. Richards
FOR THE UNION
R. Warner L. Manning W. M'Dowell E. Teriecki A Pope U. Bedarf R. Smyrichinsky
122
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
June 1,1994
Mr. R. Warner, Plant Chairman
Union Shop Committee — Local 330W
United Food and Commercial Workers
303 - 275 Broadway Avenue
Winnipeg, Manitoba
R3C 4M6
Dear Mr. Warner;
The company hereby undertakes to provide the Union with the following contracts within six (6) months following ratification of the Agreement.
Weekly Indemnity Long Term Disability Major Medical Dental
Life Insurance
Prior to providing the benefit contracts to the Union, the Union representatives and any person intending to have access to such documents will provide the Company with the attached confidentiality agreement signed by the person or persons who will have access to the documents.
FOR THE COMPANY:
FOR THE UNION:
R. Warner L. Manning W. McDowell E. Terlecki A. Pope  
123
WAIVER IN RESPECT OF WON-DISCLOSURE
OF BENEFIT DETAILS
I,	•, underlaketo comply with the following
undertakingsin relationto the documentation providedto me orto the United Food and CommercialWorkers Local 330W, byMolson Breweries dS outlines on the preceding page.
1.	I shall not disclose to any person the contents or any portion of the contents of these documents or reproduce and provide to any person these documents except in accordance with the following:
(a)	The contents of the documents may be discussed with, and copies of the documents given to, independent experts, but only afterthe expert has signed this undertaking.
(b)	If it is considered necessary, for the purpose of obtaining advice, the contents of the documents may be discussed with employees or members of the union, but only after the employee or member has signed this written undertaking. The documents or copies of the documents shall not be shownorgiventothe employees or members. Any notes made by the officers, employees or mem-berswith respecttothe discussion of the contents of the documents shall be left inthe possession of legal council.
(c)	If it b considered by legal councilto be necessary for advice in connection with the contents of the documents, the contents of the documents may be discussedwith employees or members(otherthan officers) who may have been involved with the matters described inthe documents, but only after the employee or individual has signed this written undertaking. The documents or copies of the
124
documents shall not be shown or given to such employees or members with whom the contents are discussed.
(d)	The documents provided shall not be reproduced in any way.
(e)	The information contained in the documents will be used for the sole purpose of ensuring that the level of coverage negotiated by the Union Negotiating Committee during these negotiations has been provided for.
(f)	Notwithstanding the provisions in (e) above, it is specifically understood that information contained-in the documents will not be used to solicit bids from the insurance market or to communicate directly with the insurer(s) or competitors.
(g)	Any undertakings signed in accordance with the above shall be provided to Molson Breweries within (5) days of the date on which they are signed.
SIGNED THIS
DAY OF	19
SIGNATURE
125
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
June 1,1994
Mr. R. Warner, Plant Chairman Union Shop Committee- Local 330W United Food and Commercial Workers 303 - 275 Broadway Avenue Winnipeg, Manitoba R3C 4M6
Dear Mr. Warner;
RE: Health and Safety Committee
During the term of the current Collective Agreement, the Company and the union agree to review the guidelines governing the administration of the Plant Health and Safety Program.
The Health and Safety Committee shall consist of three (3) Management and three (3) union Representatives. The Committee shall endeavour to meet once a month and shall endeavour to work from a predeterminedagenda, to be prepared bythe Cornmittee'sCo-Chairs, One (1) selected by Management and One (1) selected bythe employees.
The Committee's key objectives will be:
1.	To reduce the number of accidents at the work site.
2.	To reduce the amount of time lost due to accidents.
3.	To ensurethat all employees are aware of the importanceof safe work practices.
In keeping with the above objectives, the committee shall have as
126
its primary responsibilities the following:
1.	The evaluation of current safety procedures and the recommendations of ways and means of improvingthose procedures.
2.	The identification of potentially hazardous situations within the workplace and the recommendation of remedial action where appropriate.
3.	The evaluation of current first aid systems and resourcesand the identification of areas within the plant where additional skills or training are required.
4.	The ongoing review of accident reports, injuries, near misses, equipment damage and work practices within the plant.
5.	The evaluation and implementation of Departmentalor plantwide information and/or education programs aimed at promoting a safe work environment.
FOR THE COMPANY:
FOR THE UNION:
E. Terlecki A. Pope
127
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
June 1,1994
Mr. R. Warner, Plant Chairman Union Shop Committee - Local 330W United Food and Commercial Workers ,
303 - 275 Broadway Avenue Winnipeg, Manitoba R3C 4M6
Dear Mr. Warner:
RE: Worker's Compensation Board Claims t Payments
This will confirmtheagreementreached betweenthe Company and the Union, regarding an employee who has a Worker's Compensation Claimwhich has beenacceptedbythe Worker's Compensation Board and b awaiting payment. The Company will advance the payment, on the condition that the employee signs over the Worker's Compensation Board cheque to the Company upon receipt.
FOR THE COMPANY:
FOR THE UNION:
L.M, M'Kenna Y.F. Naassan W.S. Sashuoky QA Richards
R. Warner L. Manning W. M'Dowell E. Terlecki A Pope U. Sedarf R. Smyrichinsky
128
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
June 1,1994
Mr. R. Warner, Plant Chairman Union Shop Committee— Local330W 303 - 275 Broadway Avenue Winnipeg, Manitoba R3C 4M6
Dear Mr. Warner;
Duringthe 1991 negotiations, the partiesdiscussed certain arbitration awards concerning the application of the Guaranteed Wage Plan.
It was agreed that the decisions rendered pertaining to the Newfoundland("musttake“) andtheAlberta (‘use it or lose it") GWP awards would not be applied in Molson Manitoba Brewery.
It was further agreed that the Saskatchewan Brewers Association ('less than one week layoff) GWP award would not be applied by Molson Manitoba Brewery.
Yours truly,
D. A. Richards Manager, Personnel and Industrial Relations
129
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
June 1,1994
Mr. R. Warner, Plant Chairman Union Shop Committee- Local330W United Food and Commercial Workers 303 - 275 Broadway Avenue Winnipeg, Manitoba R3C 4M6
Dear Mr. Warner;
Re: Continental Operations Schedule _ Seven <71 Dav Continuous Operation
The purpose of this letter is to confirm our agreement reached during negotiations respectingthe changesto Article 10, Hours of Work and overtime, to incorporate coverage for continuous operation.
The parties have selected the 2-2-3, 'Every Other Weekend Off" (EOWEO), pattern for the default schedule under Article 10.
In selecting the 2-2-3 (EOWEO) shift schedule for the default schedule, the parties agreed to the following:
(a)	all employees affected by the initiationofthecontinuous operation schedule and first line supervision will be provided an opportunity and resources to consider aiternative shift schedules which may be more preferable tot heir department. The recommendationwill be adopted by the group providedthat the alternative does not adversely affect costs or efficiencies;
(b)	the Brewing, Packagingand Engineering Departments and/ortheir sub-sections may be working different shift
130
schedules(i.e., Brewingonacontinuousoperationand Packaging on a conventional eight (8) hour shift schedule) but itwill be necessaryto harmonizethe shift schedules between certain sections (eg. Shipping/ Receiving & Packaging, Brewing & Brewing Maintenance);
(c)	the Union agrees to the provisions on hours of work under Article 10 including the default schedule for seven day continuous operation with twelve (12) hour shifts pursuant to section 32 (i) and 33 (i) of the employment Standards Act. The Union and the Company will jointly submit an application to the Directorfor approval, if such application is necessary: and
(d)	if the 2-2-3 continuous operation schedule is implemented, the Company will pay the overtime premium fortheaverage weekly overtimehoursworked (i.e.., two (2) hours per week overthe full four (4) week cycle at double time (2x)) every paid period.
FOR THE COMPANY:	FOR THE UNION:
L.M. M'Kenna Y.F. Naassan W.S. Bashucky D.A. Richards
R. Warner L. Manning W. M°Dowell E. Terlecki A. Pope U. Bedarf R. Smyrichinsky
131
LETTER OF UHPERSTANDIN6
June 1, 1994
Mr. R. Warner, Plant Chairman Union Shop Committee - Local 330W United Food and Commercial Workers 303 - 275 Broadway Avenue Winnipeg, Manitoba R3C 4M6
Dear Mr. Warner:
Re: Temporary Employees and Summer Students
The partiesdiscussed the Company's intent with respect to the use of temporary employees and summer students during negotiations and the following has been agreed to by the parties:
(i) When there are permanent sustainable increases in the production requirements for the Winnipeg facility, the number of probationary employees justified by this increased production will be discussed between the Company and the Union.
(II) It is understood that manning requirements resulting from paid time not worked and unpaid leaves, such as vacation, sick days, weekly indemnity, long term disability, workers'compensation,jury duty, crown witness, bereavement leave, leave of absence (e.g., maternity/ adoption, education), and union business, will be filled by temporary employees to the extent permitted in Article 2.01 and the letters of understanding.
132
(iii) It is understood that the Companywill handlefluctua-ing manning requirements through the provisions of Article 2.01 with respectto temporary employees and, if these requirements fall within the calendar period commencing the second Monday in April and ending the Friday following Labour Day, through the engagement of summer students as per the Letter of Understanding on summer Students.
E. Terlecki A Pope
FOR THE UNION:
133
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
June 1,1994
Mr. R. Warner, Plant Chairman Union Shop Committee - Local330W United Food and Commercial Workers
303 - 275 Broadway Avenue Winnipeg, Manitoba R3C 4M6
Dear Mr. Warner:
Re: Pension Improvements
The purpose of this letter is to confirm our agreement reached during negotiations with respect to the pension plan improvements.
The parties acknowledgethat, for the most part, similar provisions apply under the pension plans covering hourly employees throughout the Company.
That being the case, the parties agree that improvements to retirement benefit levels, (normal retirement date (NRO) and Special Early Retirement(SER) minimums. as examples), accrual rates and issues relatedto eligibilityfor benefits will be determined at a later date and will be providedto the members of the United Food & Commercial Worker5 Local Union No. L330W effective June 1,1994.
FOR THE COMPANY:	FOR THE UNION:
L.M. MKenna Y.F. Naassan W.S. Bashucky D.A. Richards
R. Warner L. Manning W. M°Dowell E. Terlecki A. Pope U. Bedarf R. Smyrichinsky
134
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
June 1,1994
Mr. R. Warner, Plant Chairman Union Shop Committee - Local 330W United Food and commercial Workers 303 - 275 Broadway Avenue Winnipeg, Manitoba R3C4M6
Dear Mr. Warner;
Re: Temporatv Employees
The purpose of this letter is to confirm our agreement reached during negotiations respecting amendments to the terms and conditions underwhich temporary employees will beemployedfor the duration of this Collective Agreement.
It is agreed that the terms of the Letter will override the provisions of the Collective Agreement where necessary and in the event of any conflict between this Letter and the contractual provisions. Accordingly, we have agreed that this Letterforms pari of the CollectiveAgreementand that this Letterwill terminate on May 31, 1997 unless the parties mutually agree to renew it.
It is recognized that the Winnipeg Brewery will need additional temporary employees to respond to the training requirements resulting from job re-design initiatives and various operational changes. It is recognized that this need is not expected to be permanent and accordingly, the parties have agreed to the following amended terms and conditions for temporary employees
The period of time which a tern porary employee may be employed
135
without becoming eligible to acquire seniority shall be two hundred and twenty (220) days actually worked in atwelve month period. At the conclusion of this period, the Company shall either reclassifyhim as a seniority employee, layhim cfrorterminate his employment.
FOR THE COMPANY:	FOR THE UNION:
L.M. M'Kenna Y.F. Naassan W.S. Bashucky DA. Richards
R. Warner L. Manning W. M'Dowell E. Terlecki A. Pope U. Bedarf R. Smyrichinsky
136
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
June 1,1994
Mr. R. Warner, Plant Chairman Unon Shop Committee — Local 330W United Food and CommercialWorkers 303 - 275 Broadway Avenue Winnipeg, Manitoba R3C 4M6
Dear Mr. Warner;
Re: Apprenticeship Programme to Upgrade Skilled Tradesperson
This letter will confirm the Companies commitmentto develop an apprenticeship programme, within four (4) months following ratification, for certified tradespersons who want to obtain an additionaltrade qualification in accordance with the new section
(f), Payfor Skill Premiums under Article 17.06. The number and selection of employees eligible to participateinsuch program will be determined by the Company.
FOR THE COMPANY:	FOR THE UNION:
L.M. M'Kenna Y.F. Naassan W.S. Bashucky D.A. Richards
R. Warner L. Manning W. M'Dowell E. Terlecki A. Pope U. Bedarf R. Smyrichinsky
137
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
June 1,1994
Mr. R. Warner, Plant Chairman Union Shop Committee- Local330W United Food and Commercial Workers 303 - 275 Broadway Avenue Winnipeg, Manitoba R3C4M6
Dear Mr. Warner;
The parties reviewed the employee attendance records for those employees who have worked less than fifty percent (50% of the normalfull time hours and who are not entitled to any Company or Government pension or for benefits under the Company's insured Weekly Indemnity or Long Term Disability Plans. Notwithstandingthe provisions in Article 10.12, (.1) Separation Pay, (b) and (c), the partieshaveagreedthatthe following four (4) individuals have been designatedfor indefinite lay-off.
Don Nolln DonLonec David Kustaski Manfred Ehmann
Those employees terminating from the Company with effectfrom February 18, 1994 shall be entitled to receive the following amounts less source deductions required by law:
138
Don Nolin........
Don Lonec........
David Kustaski... Manfred Eh man n
$2,568 . 2,568 . 2,568 . 2,568
FOR THE COMPANY:	FOR THE UNION
L.M. McKenna Y.F. Naassan W.S. Bashucky D.A. Richards
R. Warner L. Manning W. McDowell E. Terlecki A. Pope U. Bedarf R. Smyrichinsky
139
LETTER OF UNDERSTAMDIN6
June 1,1994
Mr. R. Warner, Plant Chairman Union Shop Committee — Local 330W United Food and Commercial Workers 303 -275 Broadway Avenue Wnnipeg, Manitoba R3C 4M6
Dear Mr. VWmer;
This letterwill confirmthe agreement reached during negotiations that notwithstandingthe provisionsofthe Article5.03 (d) and 5.04
(b), the Collective Agreement will be modified as follows for the calendar period February7 1994 until March31,1995:
(i)	Article 5.03, (d) is amended to read as follows:
If an employee has not has employment with the Company for a period of six (6) months.
(ii)	Article 5.04, (b) is amended to read as follows: Absence from work due to lay-off for lessthan six (6) months, providedemployees are available for work on being recalled in order of seniority.
The parties agreed the provisions of Article 5.03 (d) and 5.04(b) would reverttothetermsin the Collective Agreement ontheearlier of March 31, 1995 or upon the reduction of four (4) plant employees (i.e. non-Maintenanceor Engineeringemployees) from the seniority list which is in effect as of February 20,1994.
140
FOR THE COMPANY
FOR THE UNION:
L.M. M'Kenna Y.F. Naassan W.S. Bashucky D.A. Richards
R. Warner L. Manning W. McDowell E. Terlecki A. Pope U. Bedarf R. Smyrichinsky
141
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
June 1,1994
Mr, R. Warner, Plant Chairman Union Shop Committee — Local 330W United Food and Commercial Workers 303 ■ 275 Broadway Avenue Winnipeg, Manitoba R3C 4M6
Dear Mr. Warner;
The Company commits that in the event full-time vacancies are declared at the Edmonton or Regina breweries and there are regular employees surplus to Winnipeg's manning requirements, these vacancies will be posted at the Winnipeg operation.
The Company will determine if and when such posting is required and the suitability of the applicants for transfer. Offers of transfer will be made in writing and will include the following provisions:
(a)	the transferred employee must become a member of the Union at the receiving brewery;
(b)	the transferred employee will be placed at the bottom of the plant wide seniority list;
(c)	service related benefits will be based on full company service (e.g. vacation entitlement, pension, service awards); and
(d)	a transferred-in employee will be considered a regular employee and will receive full job rate.
142
FOR THE COMPANY:
FOR THE UNION:
L.M. M'Kenna Y.F. Naassan W.S. Bashucky D.A. Richards
R. Warner L. Manning W. McDowell E. Teriecki A. Pope U. Bedarf R. Smyrichinsky
143
SENIORITY LIST
MOLSON BREWERIES—WINNIPEG
Name	Department	Seniority Date
1	Bottleshop	66/07/11
2	Bottleshop	67/04/17
3	Bottleshop	68/08/13
4	Bottleshop	68/09/30
5	Bottleshop	69/09/11
6	Bottleshop	70/04/19
7	Shipping/Receiving	70/07/22
8	Bottleshop	70/08/19
9	Bottleshop	70/1 WOl
10	Brewing	70/10/27
11	Bottleshop	70/11/10
12	Bottleshop	71/01/12
13	Shipping/Receiving	71/02/15
14	Brewing	71/02/18
15	Maintenance	71/05/20
16	Shipping/Receiving	71/07/02
17	Shipping/Receiving	71/07/07
18	Brewing	71/07/09
19	Bottleshop	71/12/23
20	Bottleshop	72/01/05
21	Bottleshop	72/03/24
22	Bottleshop	72/08/02
23	Brewing	73/04/30
24	Shipping/Receiving	73/05/11
144
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
37
38
39
40
41
42
43
44
45
46
47
48
49
50
51
52
53
Brewing	73/11/23
Brewing	74/02/14
Engineering	74/03/19
Brewing	76/06/23
Brewing	76/06/23
Brewing	76/06/23
Bottleshop	76/08/27
Bottleshop	77/02/21
Bottleshop	77/05/02
Bottleshop	77/05/10
Brewing	77/08/15
Bottleshop	77/1 1/21
Bottleshop	78/03/28
Bottleshop	78/04/26
Brewing	78/05/15
Brewing	78/05/19
Maintenance	78/08/28
Brewing	78/10/1 a
Brewing	78/11/17
Bottleshop	78/11/28
Shipping/Receiving	79/08/16
Bottleshop	79/09/18
Bottleshop	79/09/21
Brewing	79/11/22
Brewing	79/11/30
Bottleshop	79/12/11
Bottleshop	79/12/17
Bottleshop	79/12/31
Bottleshop	80/02/04
145
54	Bottlestiop	80/06730
55	Shlpplng/Receivlng	80/07/29
56	Shlpping/ReceMng	8Q/08/01
57	Shlpping/Receiving	mm
58	Braving	80/12711
59	BotUeshop	61/02/12
60	BotUeshop	81/02/20
61	Bottlestiop	81/02/26
62	BotUeshop	81/03/04
63	BotUeshop	81/03/13
64-	BotUeshop	81/03/25
65	Engineering	81/04/13
66	BotUeshop	81/D6/24
67	BotUeshop	82/02/01
68	BotUeshop	82/02/08
69	Maintenance	82/05/17
70	BotUeshop	82/07/09
71	Maintenance	83/07/04
72	BotUeshop	83/08/13
73	BotUeshop	83/12/03
74	Engineering	85/05/21
75	Engineering	85/07/23
76	Maintenance	88/02/01
77	Maintenance	90/02/05
78	Maintenance	90/03/05
79	Maintenance	90/03/06
80	Maintenance	90/03/19
61	Maintenance	90/03/30
82	Engineering	90/05/14
146