•3So
AGREEI
Betwe*
Labatts
ONTARIO BREWERIES
TORONTO BREWERY
— and —
BREWERY, MALT AND SOFT DRINK WORKERS LOCAL 304
so	URCE	\j\r\icw			
Eff		Wl		o2>	03
TE	tM.			12	3L
N« in	. OF PlOYEFS		350		
N< °-	)MilR l . E WPtOvfS		JLL ,		
1988 — 199$
gW 11
Labatts]
OOblZ-Ot-
SECTION	1	-	Preambl...........................  2
SECTION	2	•	Scope of Bargaining	init	2
SECTION	3	•	Union Security	3
SECTION	4	-	Management Function	........ 3
SECTION	$	-	Hiring Practice.................... 4
SECTION	6	-	Union Activities .................. 5
SECTION	7	•	Establishment of Se	iority .......	6
SECTION 8 • Postings - Seniority Lists ,.......	8
Positions........................    16
SECTION 18	•	Disciplinary Action	17
SECTION 16	-	Sickness and OlsabU	ty ,.......... 16
SECTION 17	•	Grievance Procedure	.............  J9
SECTION 18	•	No Strikes or lockov	s ............ZZ
SECTION 19	-	Wage Rates and Class	Mcatfons	...	23
SECTION 20	-	Hours of Work and Ov	rtimt	pay	...	26
(A) Except Highway D Wars
Employed on High ay Transport
Work ..........................  26
(8) Highway Drivers wployed on
Highway Transpor	Work	32
WOE X
Sick Leave ••«•■«•••••	.........
Retirement Plan ......	.........• •
Group Insurance Plans
Provincial Hospital and.Medical Plans
Guaranteed Wage Plan •	•••••••••
Letters of Intent	............
54
8ft
H7
11?
114
130
COLLECTIVE LABOUR AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT entered into this 2 st day ot March. 1988.
BETWEEN:
BREWERY, MALT AND SOFT DRINK ORKERS, LOCAL 304 The Party of the First Part
and
labatt's Ontario Breweries, D vision of Labatt Brewing Company Limited (Metro Toronto Brewery), Toronto, Ontario, h reinafter called the "Company ,
The Party of the Second Part
WITNESSETH:
In constderatlon of the m tual terms and covenants hereinafter contat ed, it is hereby agreed by and between the p rtles hereto as follows :
- 1 -
1.01
SECT
WHEREAS, the p co-operate 1 maintaining | conditions In tend to secure terms of emplo; labour satlsfac the Union, and fair and peace disputes that parties heret represented bj affected by t order to ensur uninterrupted st ab 111zatlon business, to ethical conduct relations betwe employees.
SECT
SCOPE OF THE
2.01	The Union sh. collective bar employees 1n th consists of t Company, other above the rank engineers and guards employ) Toronto.
2.02	New classlflcai this group fr mutually agreed parties hereto.
IN 1
'ties hereto desire to establishing and oper and suitable he Company which will uniform and equitable lent and conditions of ory to the Company and to provide methods of ul adjustments of all lay arise between the or between those them and who are is Agreement, and In , so far as possible, jeratlons and general of the Company's insure a proper and of the business and n the Company and the
IN 2
1RGAINING UNIT
1	be the exclusive alnlng agent of all bargaining unit, which ise employees of the than foremen, persons of foremen, stationary ill office staff and I at Its plant in
ons may be added to i time to time when ipon between the
2 -
2.03
2.04
3.01
3.02 4.01
Supervisory personnel the bargaining unit emergency situations demonstrate.
not members of may work In or train, or
In this agreement the ascullne pronoun shall Include the fei nine unless the context Indicates othi wise. '
. SECTION 3 UNION SECURII
Employees of the barpj out In Sactlon 2 w seniority, shall be members in good stanr for the duration of tf condition of eaploya agrees that it « membership to any Company without just c
Temporary employees s si I be required to obtain a permit ca I from the Union at the time of oaaenceaent of employment.
SECTION 4
MANAGEMENT FUNC1 INS
The Union ecknoiiledgei that It Is the exclusive function of he Company to:
nlnp unit as set have attained me and remain np of the Union s Agreement as a it. The Union 1 not refuse ployee of the jse.
discipline and b. Hire, discharge, transfer, promote.
Maintain order, efffcleney.
- 3 -
demote or discipline employees provided tiat the claim that a .seniority <r probationary employee has been < Ischarged. transferred, demoted or flscfpifned without just cause may be dealt with as hereinafter provided.
4.02	It Is underst od that In exercising these functlois the Company must conform to all other clauses of this Agreement.
SEC1ION 5 HIRING >RACTICE
5.01	In the matte' of employment, the Company will give preference to unemployed membsrs of Local 304 in good standing and c impetent to perform the work. A list >f such members will be kept by the Se< retary of the Union and furnished to the Company upon applIcatlon.
5.02	The Company may employ temporary employees 1o fill seasonal requirements. The Union shall Issue to
such men, on i ayment of the required fee, a Union Pe ‘m1t card.
5.03	The Company will continue as agent for the Union tie present voluntary revocable dues deduction agreement and all Union monthly dues and assessments shall be deducted from the first pay In each month for and In behalf of all employees. Suqh monies shall be paid
to the Secretary-Trer urer of the Union not later than the 15th day of each month accompanied wl i a list of names of all employees for and In behalf of whom such deduction: have been made. Monthly statements si wing the names of all additions and sletlons of such
the Secretary-Treasi er of the Union. In the event that ai t such deductions are not made for re sons of sickness, vacations, leave of < isence, etc., they • shall be made from th first pay of the next following month n which wages are owing to such employe s.
5.04 The Union will info n the Accounting Department of any Unt n arrangements in force regarding excel ion of payment of Union dues.
tl i Company engages new employees not i the unemployed list, these new e ploye'es will be required to sign a jes authorization card at the time of h ring.
UNION ACTIVI1 ES
6.01	No employee shall be discriminated against or discharge' for his activity as a Union membe or for doing Committee or other vl -k for the Union, provided, however, tH t permission from the Company is d tained if such activities occur, dii 1 ng the working hours. It Is i reed that such permission, 1f reque ted, will not be unreasonably withheld
5
6.02
The Plant Chat reasonable tine Job to carry within the plan that he receive Supervlaor. Su be unreasonably
6.03	Departmental Sti
reasonable time Jobs to carry c within their I however, that t from their Super will not be unri the absence of privilege shall Steward.
SECT1
ESTABLISHMENT
7.01	At the time of employees shall Probationary Eir Employees and notified of such
7.02	Probationary Emp as those employ become members force. They i after ninety I having been reel to Probationary worked ninety (9 employee from reclassification
■man shall be given off from his regular ut his Union duties , providing, however, permission from his h permission will not Ithheld.
vards shall be given >ff from their regular it their Union duties apartments providing, ey receive permission Isor. Such permission isonably withheld. On :he Steward, the same ipply to the Alternate
N 7
OF SENIORITY
heir being hired, new e classified as either iloyees or Temporary the Union shall be
oyees will be defined ies who are hired to if the permanent work 111 achieve seniority )0) days worked or, stifled from Temporary status, have actually ) days as Probationary the date of such An employee so .
6
reclassified shall r days worked as a counted towards tl seniority.
7.03	Temporary Employees those employees hire periods, vacation ai short term temporar emergency sttuattc Employees may be hundred and thlrt
'worked wtthln a pert before they achieve is defined'In each twelve (12) months on which he first e the Company. Tempor have no rights, ben the grlevance/arbft under the Collectlv where specifically s
7.04	The Company agrees seniority rights of are members of the will be the deter lay-off as provided choice of annual vac:
t have any of his smporary employee achievement of
111 be defined as for seasonal peak sick relief, and requirements, or t. Temporary ■ployed for one two (132) days
I	of one (1) year inlortty. A year irtlcular case as illowfng the date imences work with y employees shall Its or access to it f on provisions Agreement except ted.
;o recognize the
II	employees who nlon. Seniority Ining factor In n Section 10 and Ion period.
7.05
Each employee w i I standing In the Dep; Is employed. Excep employees whose sen been established Employee's seniority hundred and twenty-: days prior to the sh completes his probat
have seniority ment I n which he .in the cases of rlty rights have . Probationary 'ill be dated one x (126) calendar l day on which he nary service,
- 7 -■
provided that > prior to his st«
7.06 An employee do rights until It* his seniority Sintortty dates provided that • one month of seniority date> Company and tha changed.
SEC!
POSTINGS - SI
8.01	The Company agr departmental si Union employees and corrected Departments re1 mean:
Brewing Central Sti Garage Maintenanc
SECT
TERMINATION
9.01	Seniority will following raaso
(a)	Where a voluntarily resignation
and signe concerned.
eh date will not be : 1 ng date.
not have seniority becomes permanent and ate i s established. i#111 remain unchanged employee may, within Irst posting of his ubmit evidence to the nlon to have such date
ON 8
10RITY LISTS
s to compile and post 1 or 1 ty lists of all vhich shall be amended twice yearly. The irred to above shall
Packaging es Staging
Transportation
3N 9
)F SENIORITY
cease for any of the
i:
permanent employee resigns. All suck shall be In writing by the employee
(b)	Where an employee cause..
(c)	Where an employe absence for re those given wher made, or for acce employment whll absence. Unautl Is employment no Company and the U
(d)	Failure to not (accepting a c: after a lay- off) (72) hours (exeli Sunday) of recal registered mall a on file with 1 failure to repor seven (7) days of recall.
(e)	When an employe withdrawn from In the event this Union will give writing the reaso
is discharged for
obtains leave of ons other than the request was ting unauthorized on leave of rlzed employment approved by the Ion.
ty the Company I back to work I thin seventy- two Ing Saturday and notification by the last address e Company, and to work within ;he acceptance of
has hfs name lion membership, should occur, the the Company In for such action.
m
In case of lay- o twelve (12) mont with less than seniority and In for a period of months for employ or more years sen
•	for a period of i for employees five (5) years case of lay- off twenty-four (24)
•	s with five (5)
rlty.
- 9 -
SECT! N 10 LAY-OFF I 0 RECALL
10.01	The following Ui President. Vic Seeretary-Treesi the Company) ar Representative, and departments terms of offli lay-off only.
10.02	Union Steward departmental s terms of offli lay-off only, than one employ then the order the purpose o1 Interpreted as they are mentlo
10.03	In the case employees shel plant-wide, w skilled trades mutually deemed efficient oper Thereafter, lay period of one m 1n reverse i seniority Inso less than five concerned. If lay-off employe years of senior be allowed t employees In ot that the emp rights will d( lay-off only their original affected.
on Executive Officers: -President, Recording er (If employees of the Local 304 Labatt shall hold top plant seniority during their for the purpose of
shall hold top nlorlty during their for the purpose of In the event that more e holds top seniority, >f their seniority for 1 ay- off only will be ling the order in which id above.
if	1 a y -	off, temporary
	be la	id off first
h	the	exception of
in	whose	services are
to	be es:	sentlal for' the
tlon of the Company, offs for an anticipated nth or more shall occur der of departmental ar as employees with 5) years seniority are t becomes necessary to s with five (5) or more ty, then these men will replace more Junior er departments provided oyee exercising such so for the period of id their seniority In Department will not be
10 -
10.04	Permanent employees recalled to work in
another department ill not transfer their	seniority frights	to	the
department to which they are recalled.
10.05 Except in	the c se of	extreme
emergency, the Con iany will give permanent employees, ho are to be laid off. notice on the bulletin boards three	(3) working days	prior to
lay-off. If the emp oyee is on leave of absence, or absent through sickness,
•or on Workers' Compen atton at the time of the lay-off, he si ill be subject to the lay-off provision the same as if he were on active sta us.
10.06	Any employee who s laid off or continues to be laid off in violation of seniority must pri sent a claim, in writing, to the Unloyee Relations Department within tire* (3) working days from the date r t notice of such employee's lay-off, 01 nerwl'se, It shall is at 1 on for time f any wrongful ■ The Company will the merits of 1t 1s found that it, the affected wts straight time ff.
- 11 -
JO.07 When rehiring Department, th
10.03	will be f permanent emplo Ihe order of that Department additional men Department, th employees holdt Department wl 1 order of thefr
10.08	Hot 1flcatlon of registered mal which the empt< Ml th the Compi Labatt Represen thereof, responsibility the Company am Ms mailing ad contacted wlth 1 as hereinbefore
SECT
TRANSFERS
11.01	An employee who list In any de to a position Agreement and bargaining ur seniority equ service with t maintains h1s U but he shall h for better jobs until after hundred and tl days 1n the Dei
takes place In any reverse of Section lowed:	(1.e.	laid off
;es will be recalled In heir seniority within . In the event that are required by that l permanent laid off g seniority In another be recalled In the >nf orl ty.
recall shall be made by to the last address It shall have recorded y, and the Local 304 at 1 ve shall be notified t shall be the f the employee to keep the Union notified of ess so that he may be seventy-two (72) hours irovlded.
IN 11
F SENIORITY
las been on a seniority irtment and Is promoted not covered by this ater returned to the t shall be given alent to his total e Company provided he Ion withdrawal card, ve no seniority rights or vacation entitlement a has completed one rty-two (132) working rtment.
1 -
11.02	fin employee trans irred to another department for reai ns other than to avoid a lay-off t all transfer his seniority to such i partment after he has completed	< e	hundred	and
SECTION ]
RATES FCR TRANSFERRE EMPLOYEES
12.01	Employees who are t insferred pursuant
to the lay-off	irovlslons	shall
Immediately	take	th	rite	for	the job
to which they are as Igned.
12.02	Employees	who	re	temporarily
transferred to a v sent job for the
rnnuonionro	nf	+'	chall
continue to receive sell	rate.
12.03	If any employee Is ansferred for the efficiency of the 1 partnent, he will be paid at the low ' rate unless the employee has had at east fifteen (15) years service with it least two (2) years continuous i ployment at the higher rate and fr such a case the employee will reta.i.. his rate until such time as the Jon rate exceeds the rate being paid. Thereafter, the
wi king days In his
- 13 +
employee will be for the job. transferred for of undisputed d paid at the jot which he i s tran
12.04	Employees tran temporarily to rate of pay w iI rate for all hou rated job. T include employ stabilization o program.
12.05	Clause "A1:	Th
adequate manpowt all departments employee will perform more tha
Clause "B":	Cl
construed to me all operations adequate or th presently assign work and accor employee's work long as the res a violation of (
aid the contract rate I f an employee i s s own good or because ability, he will be rate for the job to erred.
erred or assigned job paying a higher be paid at the higher worked i n the higher s section does not s while on work a defined training
Company shall supply in all operations i n all times so that an ot be required to a fafr day's work.
se "A' shall not be that the manning of at present exactly all employees are exactly a fair day's ngly changes i n an oad may be made so ting situation i s not use "A".
4
SECmOM
PROMOTIONS, TRANSFERS FOR BAWWTINIING
ID VACANCIES IT JOBS
13.01
When assigning mer preference shall bi senior employee. A t o a Job where theri
to daytime work, liven to the most ly- time job refers s no shift work.
13.02
The Company agri permanent job vacar higher than the basi the bargaining unit when they occur ar must be made within
to post all es paying a rate ourly rate within ar seven (7) days all applications 1s time.
13.03
On posted jobs, transfers shall be provided that th sufficiently qualtf the efficient opera! The Company will training wherever pi
promotions and ised on seniority applicants are I and considering in of the Company, ange appropriate t1cable.
13.04 The Company and th city Brewers' Ret i declared vacant December and tha applicant for the eligible for anot calendar year.
Union agree that runs shall be d posted each the successful ob will not be r job for one
13.05	There shall be no ddlng of highway trips.
SECTION;14
PROMOTIONS TO SUPERVISORY POSITIONS
14.01	An employee accepting a promotion to a supervisory job shall be allowed three (3) months in whch to prove himself capable of filling the position concerned. If tie en>p.loyee does net qualify within such tine, he shall revert to his former position without loss of seniority, provided that 1f before the expiry of three (3) months. It appears thal such employee Is Incapable of q allfying for such position within tree (3) months, he may be required ti revert to his former position before such time without prejudice and without loss of
. seniority.
14.02	Employees acceptl g positions outside the bargaining un ; may apply for Union withdrawal cards within three (3) months of their ppolntment. Payment of the required U Ion dues will protect their membership n the Union for one year.
14.03	When an employe Is promoted to a supervisory posit, on, he shall retain all rights and privileges to his former position for a nyrlod of twelve (12) months frohi the klate i n which he was promoted, provided that he maintains nls Union membership in good standing during such perl og.
' 6 -
SECTION
DISCIPLINARY 1JTION AI
15.01	Whenever a Senlorlt or Probationary employee Is subjecl to disciplinary action which will be ime a part of his employment records, I i shall be given a fair and just heart 3 and may have a Department Steward 1i attendance.
15.02	Records of such d1 cfpltnary action will be given t i the employee concerned, to the I ipartment Steward and to the local Untc Secretary.
15.03	Disciplinary action must be taken within' two (2) wor fng days of the offence or the < scovery of the offence, unless this time 1s extended by agreement betwee the Company and the Union.
15.04	The appropriate disc pllnary action to be taken will be stermlned by the gravity of the offi ice and the time elapsed since the las offence.
15.05	In the Imposition 0 disciplinary wrltt reprimands will not after twelve (12] suspensions will no,
gud|veiioiwiid	1 1 1 sew. wi
after thirty (30) months.
discipline prior i warnings or be referred to months:	prior
be referred to
- 17
SECTIC i 1«
SICKNESS AND DISABILITY
16.01	Sickness or dis an accident shi cause for dtsists: employee who his shall return tc provided he Is these duties. I regular duties, endeavour to as: he i s able to pi be provided.
This clause sha event of a drtv have a Class A licence on accoi Government stin licence. This event of the 1 os for any other re
16.02	If, because of employee is not shift after hivt (2) hours, he s shall be paid f shift. In the causing injury t so severely that to continue work the balance of t will leave work to his Forem Department whene duty. The Comps illness by a doc obtained at Com by the employee
bility resulting from 1 not in itself be >1. Upon recovery, an been sick or disabled his former position capable of performing unable t o perform h i s the Company will n him to work which orm i f such work can
1 also apply in the r who i s required to icence and loses his it of failing to meet ards for a Class A ill not apply in the of a driver's licence son.
illness, a permanent able to complete his g worked at least two all be sent home and r the balance of h1s case of an accident i a permanent employee the employee i s unable he shall be paid for e shift. No employee jefore first reporting i and the Medical er an attendant i s on y may require proof of or's certificate to be any's expense, i f any, henever requested.
SECTION
GRIEVANCE PRO
17.01	The Company acknow the Union to telec assist Seniority employees In presei grievances to the C< be four Stewards 1 Stewards In Staglm each of Brewing, Transportation, and Baraga plus an Alter Sarage. The Alternat in the absence of i with respect to anj In his/her Departmen
17.02	The procedure for I or grievances shall
A Seniority or Pr« who has a complain! ordinarily discuss 1 Supervisor, but 1 satisfy him or If i complaint Is of s prefers to refer to he may do so. .
STEP 1
If a complaint or gr by an employee to h Steward considers reasonable basis for grievance, he shall to the Supervisor Involved within save from the time since t or became apparent a to arrange a satlsfac
IURE
ges the right of Shop Stewards to or Probationary ng complaints or any. There shall Packaging, three two Stewards In Maintenance and re Steward 1n the te Steward in the Steward shall act regular Steward irlevance arising
dllng complaints as follows:
tlonary employee >r question will matter with his this does not any reason his h a nature he s Steward first.
ance Is referred Steward and the ere may be a he complaint or ssent the matter f the employee [7) working days grievance arose shall endeavour ry settlement.
A grievance p eeented after the aforementioned t1 in limit shall not be arbitrable. If i uch settlement cannot be arranged! thi Steward shall then state the grlei ince In wrltrng 1n quadruplicate an( give the Department Head five (S) wor Ing days to provide a written answer. If this answer Is not satisfactory, th next step of the procedure may be nvoked.
STEP 2
The Plant Managei or his nominee shall confer with the appropriate Steward representation and the Plant Chairman or hts destgnat) may be present If requested by either the Plant Manager or the Plant Chairman or his designate. If the matteJ Is settled, the settlement shall be stated In writing and signed by th Plant Manager and the Plant Chairman o his designate. If It 1s not settled w thin two working days, Step No. 3 may b Invoked.
STEP 3
The grievance sh General Manager, his nominee, who appropriate Stew Business Agent f Chairman or his Board member of the matter Is s shall be stated by the Ontario 1 Plant Chairman oj 1s not settled days, Step No. ■
11	be referred to the Ontario Division, or shall confer with the rd representation, the r Local 304, the Plant eslgnate and Executive the Local Union. If ittled, the settlement In writing and signed •neral Manager and the his designate. If It Ithln two (2) working may be Invoked.
20 -
STEP 4
the grievance may
arbitration upon the either the Compa Chairman or his de hundred and twenty of the date o f disposition. Ti arbitrated should statement of the answers of the officials who havi with the matter.
17.03	When a written requ
has been submitted parties shall meet working days and th( reasonable effort impartial arbitrator to make such selecti Labour for Ontario to appoint such 1m| The decision o f the final and binding hereto. The reason arbitrator, 1ncl ud I expenses, stenograpl of the arbitrator, shared by both Agreement.
17.04
In grievances invol Seniority or Probat 1 grievances shall be the Steward and lode seven (7) calenda employee ceases' ( Company.
be referred to i ritte n request of or the Plant gnate within one 20) calendar days the Third Step issue to be ie the written ievance and the *1ous management previously dealt
t for arbitration t one party, the, vithin three (3) shall make every to select an and If they fall , the Minister of i a 11 be requested •t 1 a 1 arbitrator, bitra'tor shall be on the parties le costs of such the fees and : services, etc.
> h a 11 be equally irtles to this
ig discharge of a ary employee, the ut In writing by at Step 3 within days after the work for the
- 21
SECTI NO STRIKES
18.01	In view of t arranged for complaints and g that there w1l lockouts tnstl condoned by e Agreement. Ii stoppage of work such Union membi to protect a property In op protect product maintain, operat services such as sanitation, flri services, shall such work.
18.02	It Is also agre arises between Agreement conr Interpretation i contract which administration, the grievance pr beginning with a
18.03	Should any mat Agreement, but n by It, arise dui be subject to n
parties hereto.
I 18
t LOCKOUTS
e orderly procedure the settlement of levances, It Is agreed be no strikes or ated, endorsed or her party to this the event of any the Union agrees that s as may be required I maintain Company ■atlng condition, to from damage and to and protect essential rater, power, heating, protection, watchmen t permitted to perform
1 that i f any dispute the parties to this rnlng the general appl(cation- of this affects Its orderly Ither party may invoke :edure and arbitration conference at Step 3.
ar relating to this t specifically covered ng Its life, It shall lotlatlons between the
SECTION 1! MAGE RATES AND CLAS!
:ICATIONS
19*01 The following minimi scale of wages shall he paid to p nanent employees effective from the de i Indicated:
Brewing Department Tractor Trailer Drivers Truck Drivers (Other) Mechanics (Auto)
Staging Machine Operator Maintenance Mechanic "A" Electrician
Maintenance Mechanic *B* Maintenance Mechanic *C* Maintenance General Packaging Machine Operator Packaging (other)
Painter Bar Tender
Storekeeper/Sepply Receiver
Plumber
Oiler
Probationary
A	1	JAN. 1	JAN. 1	
	a	1989	1990	
	.<0	18.05	18,	.75
u	.15	18.30	19,	.00
11	.15	18.10	18,	,80
20	.:7	21.13	21,	,95
11	.10	18.05	18.	.75
2ff	7	21.13	21,	.95
2Cf	.17	21.13	21.	,95
19	■! 4	20.19	20.	,89
18	.10	18.85	19.	55
lit	.44	18.09	18,	79
17	,40	18.05	18.	,75
17	.35	18.00	18.	,70
19	.33	19.98	20.	.68
17	.40	18.05	18.	75
17	.40	18.05	18.	75
20	,37	21.13	21.	95
18	,35	19.00	19.	70
10	,50	10.89	11.	31
19.02	The following basic scale of wages will be paid to temporary employees effective from the dace Indicated:
Starting Rate After 22 Days
APR. 1 19
9*06
9411
JAN. 1	JAM.
1989	1990
9.40	9.75
9.45	9.81
23 -
19.03	Chargehands sha receive 30 cents ($.30) per hour i re than their regular rate. A charge md ts one who while working with a c :w of one or more men Is specifically charged with the responsibility r the quantity and quality of work | rformed by such crew.
19.04 An employee whij does not become a permanent employ :e under the conditions of Section 7 alter completion of one hundred and th 1 pty-two (132) working days shall, n vertheless, then be eligible for statutory holiday pay on the same basis as	provided for permanent employ es.
19.05	All employees si premium at the r per hour for a< cents ($.75) January 1, 1989 hour; Effective cents ($.85) shifts. The a will be paid foi shifts commend hours of 9:01 e the night shift erformed on sh etween the hour a.m. This shlf deemed part of i In the calcu statutory hoi Ida
all qualify for shift ste of 55 eents ($.55) ternoon shifts and 75 oer hour [effective ' 80 eents ($.80) per January 1,	1990,	85
er hour] for night ternoon shift premium all work performed on g on or between the .m. and 4:59 p.m. • and premium for all work Ifts commencing on or : of 5:00 p.m. and 5:59 ; premium shall not be he regular rate of pay atfon of overtime, r or vacation pay.
24 -
19.06
The status of trade men *B" and "C" will	be reviewed	by the Company
annually.	Those	qualified for
progression to hlghi • status will be promoted. Those nol	deemed qualified
will be given reason; for the decision and shall have i ‘course to the grievance procedure 1 not satisfied.
19.07	Persons hired to f 11 positions of
Maintenance Meehan	Electrician,
Plumber and Auto Mi rhantc after the
' signing of this Agrei aent will move to their	appropriate	Job rates In
accordance with Artie e 19.01 herein at the end of their pr; aatlonary period. Those not deemed q allfled wilt be given	reasons for	he decision and
shall have recourse to the grievance procedure If not satl fled.
CLASSIFICATIONS DURIN OVERHAUL
19.08	During	overhaul	icrtods certain
employees may be ass1 ined to work with Maintenance Mechanics to perform Jobs requiring mechanical skills. These employees will be pa1 I the Maintenance Mechanic *Ca rate for such work.
19.09	Other employees may b assigned to work with Maintenance Meek nlcs or Painters to do routine generi I maintenance or painting work. These employees will be paid the Maintenance < eneral rate.
- 25 -
19,10	Employees who < work stablllzat Maintenance Dei avoid lay- off regular rates.
SECTI'
HOURS OF VUDRK A
A. EXCEPT HIGHWAY HIGHWAY TRA
20.01	Eight hours (! hours work, plui time) shall cons five (5) eight constitute a mo excess of eight day, or In axes I n any one wee! the rate of tt work I n excess shall be paid fc time. The nor reduced by eighi containing a sts event that an statutory holidr premium pay for the remaining t straight time ri
•e assigned to other on jobs outside the irtment In order to till be paid their
M 20
0 OVERTIME PAY
RIVERS ENPLOYED ON SPORT WORK
!ven and one- quarter rest periods or lunch Itute a day's work and (8) hour days shall k week. All work In (8) hours in any one s of forty (40) hours shall be paid for at t and one-half. Any of eleven (11) hours at the rate of double at work week will be (8) hours for any week utory holiday. In the employee works his ' he will receive the [hat day but will work Irty-two (32) hours at e.
20.02	Saturday will be a pi at the rate of time all hours worked, that employees who; commence on Friday bi receive time and one performed after rnldm
20.03	Employees required t or Statutory Holiday the rate of double worked. Any work pel
'or Statutory Holiday has worked forty (' week will be paid f and one-half. In a or more Statutory H work week will be re hours per Statutory purpose of calculat Sunday.	.
20.04	Any work performed hours on any one Su for at the rate o( one- half and work pei (8) hours on any one will be paid for at time and one- half.
turn day with pay nd one- half for t i s understood regular shifts re midnight will If for all work t Friday.
rork on a Sunday hall be paid at e for all hours med on a Sunday fter an employee hours in that at double time ek i n which one days occur, the :ed by eight (8) Holiday for the g overtime for
fter. eight (8) sy will be paid louble time and med after eight fatutory Holiday } rate of triple
27 -
CAL
ACK
20.OS	When an employ after he has cos specific job. hour period pi shift, he wit worked at the subject to a (4) hours at each call back
I f called i n w period precedt his regular shf such extra wor overtime rate guaranteed.
Appropriate O' and one- half Inclusive, doub Statutory Hoi Ida hours worked a excess of efgh
Any premium hi clause will no overtime adju*' daily or waekl
i s called back t o work loted his shift, for a d before the one (1) idlng his next regular >e paid for the time roprlate overtime rate iImum payment of four ch overtime rate for
hfn the one (1) hour the starting time of , he w i 11 be paid for at the appropriate th no minimum payment
time rates mean time Monday to Saturday, i time on Sundays and s, and triple time for i Statutory Holiday In 8) hours.
i paid for under this e used for calculating tent 1n relation to ours worked.
28
th
each day shall be
(1) weak In tdvan such scheduled days shall provide for a hours elapsed time each man's shift ( next shift, unless agreed. When an e to change from one shifts to another time may be reducec
Without changing p individual employei work assignment or other employee upon he is given at let hours notice In adv assignment, he shat paid at the appro; for any work perfi what would have be off according to work assignment.
hours to be worked isted at least one of the f 1 rst of and the scheduling least fifteen (15) tween the close of the start of his ptherwlse mutually loyee Is scheduled oup of consecutive the said elapsed
0	seven (7) hours.
ted schedules, an may take over the re day off of some equest, but unless
1	four (4) working ce of such changed be entitled t o be ate overtime rate ted by him during
his regular time Is regular posted
rond twelve (12) discretion of the
20.07 If any employee repo scheduled shift wi informed previously unless his failure not to report is due' Just cause from hi less than four ( available for him, four (4) hours pay
(«
ts for work on his hout having been not to report, to receive notice to absence without last shift, and hours work Is he shall be given notwithstanding.
20.08
Employees Mho wo above their regi hours shall not time off.to offse an employee Is overtime and hei hours unbroken Completion of his period, such emi required to cont' next regular das extreme emergency employee Is requl twelve (12) hour will be excus succeeding day, except In the emergency, or occasioned by su< emergency shall b that Interferes w
k overtime over and ar dally or weekly ie required to take such overtime. When called In to work i not had eight (8) ree time since the last regular working loyee shall not be nue working Into the except 1n case of . Further, when an ed to work more than in any one day, he d from work the If he so desires, case of extreme here the work 1s h an emergency. An > defined as anything th production.
20.09	If overtime Is r qulred, notice shall be given two (2) hours before the end of the employee1 i shift, except for work required to complete production runs and In th. case of emergency repair work 'equlred for the continuance of pi aduetlon. When such notice cannot be )1ven, overtime shall be on a voluntar r basis. As far as possible, overtlm. work will be equally distributed on a annual basis among the permanent employees In the Department coneeri ed.
20.10 If an employee 1s edulad to work at least two (2) hour n addition to his regular shift' he s ill be allowed an, additional fifteen (15) minute rest' period at the begin ng of the overtime period and every no (2) hours of overtime worked the after.
20.11	Employees who are qulred to work as much -as three ( hours overtime continuous with t 1r regular shift shall be granted a al allowance of at least three dollars $3.00).
20.12	(a) The Company 111 endeavour to
schedule	as	mat employees as
practicable on a Monday to Friday work week.
(b)	Schedules of w rk In the Brewing and Maintenance Departments must necessarily fluctua e with production requirements.
20.13	Overtime hours wll be posted on a departmental basis weekly and will Include the employa 's name and hours of overtime worked c refused.
20.14	In no case will O'ertlme or premium
compensation	be	duplicated or
pyramided.
20.15	Before effecting anj general change in
departmental	shift schedule,	the
Company will endeav tur to advise the Union in advance of ^ueh change.
B. HIGHWAY DRIVER EMPLOYED ON HIGHWAY TRANS >ORT WORK
20.16	For employees b ing paid as Truck Drivers (Highway) be regular work week will be forty (■ 0) hours Monday to Friday. Overtime at the rate ol time and one-half shel be paid (or hours worked in excess f ten (10) in a day and forty (40) hoi rs in a week and for work commencing o Saturday. Time to be taken from the ime clock (except as specified in 20. 7 below) with time spent eating meal: to be deducted from the time clock hoi s.
20.17	Double time will * paid for all hours worked on any unday or Statutory Holiday.
LAf-OVER TINE
20.18	If a driver Is held up outside of Toronto becaus of mechanical breakdown, road c editions, or weather conditions, and o Hged to hold up for one or more than ne full day, he will be credited with light (8) hours work for each day held iver.
20.19	Before calculatin' any overtime payment for hours In exce s of forty (40) In a week, any hours for which premium payment has been | lyable shall first be deducted from the otal hours worked.
20.20	The Company agree not to use outside trucks for any delivery which Is normally made by1 the company's trucks and while an emp yee on the seniority list (who 1s qua fled to drive) Is on 1 ay-off.
- 2 -
20.21	If any employee reports fer work on his scheduled shift without having been Informed previous! not to report, unless his failure to receive notice' not to report Is du to absence without Just cause from h t last shift, end less than four ( ) hours work 1s available for him, he shall be given four (4) hours pay ; itwlthstandlng.
SECTION 1 STATUTORY HOI [DAYS
21.01	The Company will ot erve the following plant holidays:
New Year's Day Good Friday Easter Monday
«:tv1e Holiday Labour Day Thanksgiving
An additional (12tl granted If declared
I holiday will bi by the Provincial
- 33 t
PLANT HOLIDAYS • CAlf OAR YEAR SCHEDULE
New Year's Day January 2nd Road Friday Easter Monday Victoria Day Canada Day Civic Holiday labour bey Thmkijlvlnj Christmas Day Boxing bay
1988	1989	1990
Thur».0ec.3t/87	on.Jin.2	Mon.JlA.l
frl .Jen.1/88	uei.Jin.)	Tull.Jm.2 rrl.Apr.13
frl .Apr.l	rl .Mir.24	
Mon. Apr. 4	on.Mir.27 on.Nay 22	Hon.Apr.18 KoA.(foly22
Mon.Hiy 23		
frl.July 3	rl .June 30	
Hon.Aug.1	on.Aug.7	Non.Aug.8
Mon. Sept. S Non.Oct.10	on.Sept.4	Mon. Sept. 3
	on.Oct.9	Mon. Oct.8
Hon.Dec.86	on.Dec.25	Tull.CiC.25
Tuei.04C.27	uei.Cic.28	Wed. Dec.28 /Mon.Dec 31/90) (Tuet.Jan 1/91)
21,02	Employees on the seri bhjty lists, other than those laid off or 1 i leave of absence and probationary employ! u( who have completed thirty (30) days o work for the Company since their most red nt date of hire and who are not lifd off or n leave of absence will ■ receive eight (8) I wr* straight time pay for each of such oltdiy! without being required to work on uch days.
21.03	When any of these during an employee shall receive one dl such Holiday in tl payment, unless, by the employee and tP i s given another daj such Holiday. Sj scheduled by mutv.l employee and the Co*
Holidays are observed i annual vacation, he *» regular pay for each ftfon to hfs vicitlon uttidl agreement between Company, the employee off with pay 1n lieu of h lieu day shall be agreement between the any.
- 34
21.04	All truck drivers wl tight (S) hours pay fi the B.V. Company by vl applicable throughout Whert such a hoi Ida employe*'s vacation pi an additional day's pa.
21.05	In any work weak 1 holiday, which Is no declared and In which less than forty (40) of the holiday, the Cl driver with sulflcle maximum of eight (8) total hours for that Drivers required to w do so at straight time
be credited with non-selling days In ue of L.C.8.0. edict he entire province.
occurs during an od, he will receive
which an L.C.B.O. province wide. Is i driver has' worked urs, solely because tany will credit the hours, up to a ours, to bring his tek to forty (40). k on a holiday will
21.OS
Penalty rates for emp on the elavtn (11) h shall be deemed applli (l.e. day. afternoon i I n question. For the ] on call-ins occurring holiday shall be defi 12:01 a.n. and ending
yeas working shifts 1days listed above )le to three shifts 1 night) of the day ppose of penalty pay on a holiday, the d as commencing at 11:59 P.m.
- JS -
SECTIOI 22 VACAT IN
22.01	On May 1st i n each '
be established foi
according to the fo
(a)	Regular employe! seniority as c week.
(b)	Regular employ year, but less seniority as c weeks.
(c)	Regular employt years, but less seniority as o weeks,
(d)	Regular employt years, but less of seniority as weeks.
(e)	Regular employe years, but leu of seniority as weeks.
(f)	Regular employt years, but lea years of senior;
six weeks.
iar, vacation leave will all regular employees owing scale:
who have achieved May 1st -• one
is who have one han three years of May 1st -* two
s who have three han eight years of May 1st -- three
s who have eight than fifteen years of May 1st •• four
i who have fifteen than twenty years of May 1st •• five
s who have twenty than twenty-five :y as of May 1st --
(g)	Regular employees who have twenty-five years or mo e of seniority as of May 1st -- sei sn weeks.
(h)	Employees shall be eligible for
employees who have been in the employ of the Company for a period of twelve (12) m nths or more, but who have lost mone than fifty (80) working days durtig the twelve (12) month period preceding May 1st for any reason othfr than illness verified to the satisfaction of the Company may, atf the employee's option, be given two weeks summer vacation with payment amounting to 41 of his earnings .during the twelve (12) month period preceding May 1st or the employee may elect to work for all or part of such summer vacation time, but shall be entitled to receive 41 vacation payment.
^>e 11mlted to two which will be rteen (14) week second Monday 1n
22.03	Vacations shall be taken by seniority
regardless of si I ft and work scheduled will be arrang d In order that an employee	will have sixteen (16)
consecutive	day	when	he takes	his
summer vacation1.
22.04	It 1s unders ood that, whenever
possible, the	nployee can take his
vacation at a tl e other than specified in this Agreemen .
22.05	Additional	wee	s	of	vacation	for
employees with t tree (3) or more years of service shal be taken outside the summer vacation erfod. Such vacations will be	take	by	seniority	by
classification. The Company reserves the right to d< termlne the number of employees who ma be on vacation at any given-time.
22.05	For each week employee will pay at his cur straight time.
22.07 a) Ai employee work for a p weeks shall r vacation entft further ent11 resumption of
if vacation leave an selve forty (40) hours t hourly wage based on
ntlnuously absent'from od In excess of 104 be entitled to any nent thereafter until ment Is earned by Ive service.
38
b) Near the eondusf year, an employee *1 entitlement who is ■ Weekly Indemnity Disability benefits
of the vacation i unused vacation sn 1n receipt of jr Long Term md who has not (nt from work in
i111:
i such benefits i vacation leave f vacation ixhiusted; and,
>f dfsabt1 tty 11) qualfffad,
>n credits are
abflfty benefits (ascribed above, e benefit period ir of weeks for iced on vacation pursuant to this
39 -
22.08 Vacation Bonus: normal vacation 22.01, a vaeat employees Mill 1st of each yea are established.
Assuming that leave will be pi wage rates thei bonus will be pi of the employee' The vacation bo as follows:
Employees with 1 of seniority a .entitled to a v their normal vac
VACATION PATHEN!
22.09	All termination the following ba
(a)	Employees w vacations c prior to te a pro-rata lOt. 121, or earnings fr the terminal
In addition to the ly provided by Section n bonus for certain e established on Hay when vacation leaves
11 service vacation d for on the basis of in effect, vacation d at the commencement annual vacation, s will be calculated
ret (3) years or more ol May 1st will be at' on bonus of 201 of t1on pay.
ON TERMINATION
shall be handled or Is:
) had received their rned as of May 1st 11 nat Ion shall receive lymert of 41, $1, 81, 141, as applicable, of i May 1st to date of on.
10
(b)	Employees who id not received
their earned vacs ion as of May 1st prior to termlna on shall receive their regular	acatlon	pay in
addition to the p j-rata payment of 4X, 6X, 8X, 10X	12X, or 14X, as
applicable, of ■	rnlngs	from May
1st.
(c)	Temporary and/or	sasonal	employees
shall be entltlei only to vacation pay 1n accordanc	with provisions
of the Employmei Standards Act. On termination, n employee will receive any vacat in bonus to which he i s entitled,
SECTION 23 TOOL ALLOWAN
23.01	All newly hired Mech lies "A' or "B" and Auto Mechanics wl I be required to provide their own et of required tools. Replacement ol worn, broken, or lost tools, or for u grading, will be paid for by the Comp, y subject to an annual maximum ol H 5 per Mechanic. Effective 1n 1989, tl i annual maximum will be increased to 12,65. Eflective in 1990 this maximum 111 be Increased to J275.
- 41 7
SECT: in 24 WELFAI PLAN
24.01	(a) The Company *111 provide a Welfare
Plan and a ' jn’slon Plan for Its employees, the i articulars of which are set out In polti ei and other documents carrying such Ians, shall be summci'lzed agreement booklet signature page.
(b) The employee's Unemployment Insurant wilt be retained offset a portion of benefit fmprovenents Agreement.
24.02	On each Januar 1st, six (6) days (at employee's basi rate) will be credited to a sick leave bank for each permanent employee. The e credits will be used to offset loss of pay for workfno days not covered 1 f the Insured Weekly Indemnity banal t. Any unused portion of the sick b< ik will be paid to the
explanation ol the sick leave plan shall be sumi arized In the printed agreement	bo klet following	the
signature page.
SCK LEAVE
In ci ih on Chris las.
the last payday A complete
HEALTH i SAFE
24.03	The Company shall maintain all reasonab safeguarding the hea' Its employees. Both the Union recognij obligations to ■ prevention, correctlo of unhealthy and conditions and pr employees are expec
SECTION 25
BEREAVEMENT
25.01
absence with pay In order to make funeral arrangements c to attend the funeral. Immediate amily includes husband or wife, >ther, father, sister, brother, child mother-fn-law, father-in-law,	so	in-law and
daughter-in-law. One day's leave of absence will be grant t for attending the funeral of an aunt, uncle, sister-in-law ifldren. Leav i non-relatfv Ithout pay.
- 43 -
institute and precautions for h and safety of the Company and their mutual list In the and elimination unsafe working :tices.	All
i to adhere to
EDUCATION LEA IE OF ABSENCE
25*02
Upon written Business Agent Union, the Comp education leave loss of regula three (3) norm* one year, to th elected Depai Alternate Stewa leave will be Union and the C disruption of t
application by the of Local 304' of the ny agrees to grant an of absence, without 1 pay, hot to evceed I working days In any Union Plant Chairman, ment Stewards and ds. Such educational a arranged between the npany so as to minimize e Company's operations.
25.03
JURY DUTY
Should an emplc/ee be called for Jury Duty or subpoenaed as a crown witness, the Company will supplement his Jury pay or witness pay to ensure that the employee will 'eeelve totally, monies equivalent to eight (8) hours of straight time ay at h1s regular wage rate for those days he would actually have been at woirk during his service as a Juryman or Crown witness.
■ 44 -
UNION LEAVE OF ABSENCE
25.04	The Company agrees to grant unpaid leave of absence, upon written eppltcatton, for a period of not more than twelve (12) months or for the balance of the duration of this Agreement (whichever is longer) to any employee who has been elected or appofnted as an official of the Parent Union or of the Local Union, If such duties require him to have leave of absence from his Company duties on a full time basis.
Employees on such leave of absence may be continued as active members of the pension and welfare plans (subject to appl f cable legislation and/or government regulations or directions) upon payment of the total contributions to such plans whether from the Unton or employee concerned. During such pertod of leave of absence the employee's seniority shall continue to accumulate as If he were employed at his regular post by the Company.
SECTION 26
GUARANTEED WOE PLAN
26.01	The Guaranteed Wage Plan, which 1» a supplement to this Agreement, is intended to provide assistance for those eligible employees who have one or more years of seniority who are laid off as a result of application of the foregoing lay-off clauses, and is not to Be construed as authorization to alter existing practices.
26.02	Persons hired as regular employees after March 21 , 1988 who have achieved seniority and who are not yet eligible for participation in the Guaranteed Wage Plan will, upon permanent layoff, be eligible to receive an amount of severance pay equal to one (1) week of regular pay for each completed year of service as of the original date of his layoff. Uoon receipt of such sever nee pay, the. employee's employment is terminated and his seniority and o her rights under this Agreement are cancelled,
SECTION 27
DUPLICATION OF BENEFITS
27.01	An employee shall not receive wages or other allowances such as holiday pay, vacation pay. Weekly Indemnity, LTD, Wdi'tcers' Compensation, or other similar benefits from more than one source for the same day or part day.
- 46 -
SECTION 88
COST OF LIVING ALLOWANCE
28.01	A Cost of Living Allowance In a lump sum payment will be paid to regular employees for >11 hours worked, including vacation and statutory holidays, in the period from January l, 1990 to December 3,1, 1990, the first pay period following publication of the December.	1990	Consumer Price Index
(1971 > 100). on the basis of $.01 per hour for each full .3 change in (he Consumer Price Index (1971 « 100), in the period from January 1, 1990 to December	31,	1990 calculated by
subtracting the Consumer Price Index (1971 ■ 100) for the month of December, 1989, after adding thereto 6$ of the December,	1989	Consumer Price Index
(1971 * 100). from the Consumer Price Index (1971 • 100) for the month of December, 1990.
SECTION 29 LETTERS OF INTENT
Attached to this Agreement for reference are Letters of Intent which shall not be construed to form part of the Collective Agreement. These Letters, i-fnot renewed by the parties, shall expire on the date of expiry of this Agreement.
47
SECTION 30
TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE
In the event that, during this collective agreement, the Company plans to introduce a major technological change which It anticipates will directly result In the permanent layoff of ten (10) or more regular employees, the following shall apply:
(a)	The Company will give the Union notice of such technological change at least sixty (60) days before the date on which the technological change is to be effected. After giving notice, the Company shall Identify by job classification the number of jobs to be displaced. The jobs to be displaced shall be grouped by the Company for the purposes of paragraph (c) herein.
(b)	The Company wilt meet and discuss with the Union the redeployment of the affected regular employees in accordance with the provisions of the collective agreement and the provisions as set out In the Guaranteed Wage Plan (GWP); and, In so doing, shall designate the employees to be permanently laid off;
(c)	During the first thirty (30) days of the notice period and prior to effecting any layoffs or separations uncfer the collective agreement,	the	Company	shall
canvass employees eligible for special early retirement ('eligible employees') as to their willingness to elect special early retirement. Such eligible employees shall be approached	within	each	group
determined In paragraph (a) In order of seniority and, 1f they choose to	take	special	early
retirement within the above thirty (39) day period and actually retire within thirty (30) days thereafter, will receive a Technological Change Bonus (TCB). The TC8 will be determined by dividing the total amount of the GUP separation pay entitlement of all the employees designated for permanent layoff in paragraph (b) above, by the total number oi employees so designated. The number of special early retirees In any group who may receive the TCB will not exceed the number of jobs 1n that group which are to be permanently displaced by the technological change and, i f a greater number of eligible employees In any group so elect to take special early retirement, the TCB will only be paid to the most senior of them.
I f
(a)	the number of eligible employees in any group who elect to take special early retirement is less than the number of jobs In that group to be " displaced by the change, or
permanently
technological
(b)	the Company did not anticipate the number of layoffs but the Introduction of the major technological change actually directly results in the permanent layoff of ten (10) or more regular employees, the following provisions shall apply:
M) THE EMPLOYEES ULTIMATELY DESIGNATED FOR PERMANENT LAVOF HEREUNDER, WHO ARE ELIGIBLE FOR PARTICIPATION IN THE GHP. will be permitted to elect separation and to terminate from the Company prior to their scheduled date of layoff. Those employees so electing and terminating from the Company shall be entitled to receive the amount of separation payment calculated In
- SO
accordance with Section 10 of the Guaranteed Wage Plan. If any of those employees who are eligible for participation in the Guaranteed Wage Plan were classified as regular employees prior to March 21,	1988,
their separation payment calculation shall include an additional eight (8) weeks of benefit entitlement for the purposes of paragraph (b) of Section 10 of the Guaranteed Wage Plan;
(11) those employees designated for permanent layoff hereunder who do not elect to terminate from the Company pursuant to the provisions of the preceding paragraph, and who are eligible for participation	in	the
Guaranteed V\fege Plan, shall receive the benefits provided for under that Plan. In addition, if any employee who 1s eligible for participation	in	the
Guaranteed Wage Plan was classified as a regular employee prior to March 21, 1988, he shall receive an additional eight (8) weeks of benefit entitlement under that Plan, subject	to	the
following conditions:
A) an employee may use the additional eight (8) weeks of entitlement only once during his employment, and notwithstanding Section 8 of the Plan, the eight (8) weeks can never be restored;
- 51
B) the additional eight (8) weeks of entitlement shall be the first weeks used.
SECTION 31
DURATION AND REVISION OF AGREEMENT
31.01
This Agreement shall remain in full force and effect from the date
>er 31e	and snail
rtAtIn in cUlEl I I'Un year- to - year
thereafter, unless notice of not less than thirty (30) and not more than sixty (60) days prior to the expiration of this Agreement is given by either party to the other party of their intention to revise or amend this Agreement.
IN WITNESS whereof the parties hereto have caused thrlr names to be subscribed by their duly authorized officers and. representatives on this, the3n'<l*y of YV\o,rclr\
UNION
COMPANY
53 T
SICK LEAVE
1.	You will only receive sick pay for normal working days which are lost through illness. For example, if you are absent on a Thursday and Friday but return to work on Monday, you will be paid at your basic wage rate then In effect for Thursday and Friday.	You would not
receive sick pay for Saturday or Sunday unless they were regular working days.
2.	Coincident with the installation of the sick pay plan will be the deletion of the eight day retroactivity provisions of the former weekly indemnity plan. Sick days would apply to working days not affected by weekly indemnity which were formerly considered to be the waiting period.
3.	If you become a permanent employee after January 1st, the number of sick leave days to your credit will be pro-rated. For example, if you become permanent on'July lit, your credit will be 6/12 x 6 days • 3 days.
4.	If you terminate employment or retire during the year you will be paid the unused portion of your sick leave on a pro-rated basis. For example, If you leave on September 1st, you will receive 8/12 x 6 days x your basic wage rate then i n effect.
- 54 -
LABATT RETIRERENT PLAN
FOR BRBAERY WORKERS IN TORONTO
This section of the booklet Is a summary of the main features of the John Labatt Limited Retirement Plan for Wage Employees as amended January 1 , 1988 with respect to Brewery Workers employed by lebatt Brewing Company Limited In Toronto, Ontario,	A complete
description of the Plan which 1s the governing document is available for reference at your Employee Relations, Office, If you have any questions do not hesitate to seek the answers from your Supervisor or Employee Relations staff.
1.	ELIGIBILITY FOR MEMBERSHIP
A new employee becomes a member of the Plan on the first day of the month, coincident with or Immediately following completion of 90 days of work In a 12 month period and hfs seniority date will then be established as hfs date of employment for purposes of this Plan.
You will be advised when ypu are eligible and are enrolled as a member and you will be asked to submit proof of your age
- 55 -
2. CONTRIBUTIONS
You are not required to make contributions to the Plan in respect of your service after January 1,	1974.	Any	required
contributions which you have made i n respect of service before January 1, 1974 remain to your credit in the Plan and will be applied to provide benefits in respect of your service before January 1 , 1974.
The Company contributes whatever amount is necessary, along	with	the	required
contributions made	by employees	in respect
of service before	January	1 ,	1974 , to
provide the benefits called for under the Plan. The Company also pays the full cost of .administering the Plan and. In addition, matches your contributions to the Canada Pension Plan.
All contributions to the Plan are paid over to the Royal Trust Company to be invested and held in trust for the purposes of paying benefits as provided in the Plan.
3.	NORMAL RETIREMENT DATE
Normal retirement is at age 65. Your pension commences as of the first day of the month coincident with or immediately following your 65th birthday.
4.	SERVICE AND CREDITED SERVICE
Your service to qualify for certain of the benefits under the Plan is the total number of years from your date of employment as established under the Plan to the date on which you retire, die or terminate service.
• 56 ■
The number of years of your “credited” service determines the amount of pension you are entitled to receive. Credited service I s calculated as explained below:
(a)	From January 1 ,	1974 you receive a
credit of one year while a member of the Plan or a prorated partial year of credit for less than 1800 hours. For example, If while a member of the Plan you work only 900 hours in a year, your credit for that year will be one-half year (900 divided by 1800). If you are absent due to disability, you will receive service credits for any periods during which you are totally disabled and receive weekly indemnity or long term disability Insurance benefits or Worker's Compensation payments, but In no event will you receive more than one year of credited service for any one calendar year.
(b)	Your credited service for the period from January 1 , 1958 to December 31, 1973 Is the number of years for whfch you have made the required contributions to the Plan.
(e) If you were a member of a previous company pension plan before January 1, 1958 when the labatt Retirement Plan became effective, your credited service to December 31 , 1957 is the period from your date of employment to December 31, 1957 but excluding any periods when you were eligible to but did not contribute to the previous plan.
- 57 -
5. CALCULATION OF BASIC PENSION CREDIT
You receive credit for a monthly basic
pension payable from your normal retirement
date (age 65) calculated as follows:
«) for service after January 1 . 1990 -$28.00 multiplied by the number of
. years of your credited service after January 1, 1990;
b)	for service in 1989 * $27.00 for one year of credited service in 1989 or a prorated amount for less than one year;
c)	for service in 1988 - $26.00 for one year of credited service in 1988 or a prorated amount for less than one year;
d)	for service In 1987 - $20.00 for one year of credited service in 1987 or a prorated amount for less than one year;
«) for service $n 1986 - $19.50 for one year	credited service in	1986 or	a
prorated amount for less than one year;
f) for service in 1985 - $19.00 for one year	of	credited	service	in	1985	or
prorated amount for less than one year;
9)	for service in 1984 - $17.25 for one
year	of	credited	service	1n	1984	or
prorated amount for less than one year;
H) for service fe 1983 - $16.50 for one
year	of	credited	service	in	1983	or
prorated amount for less than one year:
- 58 -
0	for service in 1582 - $15.00 for one
year of credited service in 1982 or prorated amount for less than one year;
i) for service fn 1981 - $14.00 for one year of credited service In 1981 or prorated amount for less than one year;
k)	for service in 1980	$13.00 for one
year of credited service in 1980 or prorated amount for less than one year;
l)	'for service to December 31 , 1979 • the amount of monthly basic pension to your credit for service to December 31, 1979 determined in accordance with the terms of the Plan in effect to December 31, 1979.
6. AMOUNT OF NORMAL RETIREMENT PENSION
VMien you retire at your normal date (age 65) you will rtcefve a monthly basic pension from the labatt Retirement Plan in an amount equal to the rum of your basic pension credits determined as explained in Section 5. In addition you. will receive any pension which Is payable to you under a previous plan (see Section 16) and any statutory pension (such as C.P.P. and
O.A.S.) which is payable to you under government plans. You may also qualify for a supplement from the Labatt Retirement Plan under the minimum pension provision explained in Section 7.
- 59 -
7. MINIMUM PENSION AT NORMAL RETIREMENT
If you retire at age 65 with at least 30 years ot credited service, you are entitled to a minimum monthly pension from Company Plans and the Canada Pension Plan combined of:
a)	$1,440, I f you retire on or after January 1, 1988;
b)	$1,500, If you retire on or after January 1, 1989;
c)	$1,560, if you retire on or after January 1, 1990,
These amounts represent the minimum monthly pension payable from Company Plans and the Canada Pension Plan combined before allowing for the provision of a spousal survivor pension. The Company Pension will be adjusted to provide a survivor pension unless the spouse who will benefit from that survivor pension waives his/her right t o receive ft In writing.
You will receive a minimum lifetime pension supplement from the Labatt Retirement Plan equal to the amount, If any, required to be added to your accrued basic pension from all Company Plans and the full unreduced Canada Pension Plan Retirement benefits determined at the date of your retirement to provide the above minimum monthly pension.
- 60 -
Ifyou retire at age 65 with less than 30 years of credited service, the lifetime supplement shall be the amount by which the minimum pension at normal retirement exceeds the full unreduced Canada Pension Plan Retirement benefits, prorated by the ratio of the number of years of credited service to 30 years and reduced by your accrued pension.
To determine what, if any, amount of supplement is needed, your basic pension from Company Plans is the basic amount payable before the amount of the survivorship pension is calculated, and your C.P.P. pension is the amount you are entitled to receive when you first become eligible at Normal Retirement age, whether or not you actually make application for such benefits, but disregarding any increase in your C.P.P. pension after its date of commencement.
8.	SPECIAL EARLY RETIREMENT
I f you are age 60 or over and you have 30 or more years of credited service you rrs/ elect Special Early Retirement, in which case you will be entitled to an immediate accrued basic pension equal to the amount of basic pension to your credit for service to your date of early retirement, without reduction for your earlier age of retf rement.
- 61 -
This pension will be supplemented by an amount necessary to provide the minimum monthly pension amounts set out below, until you first become eligible to receive unreduced	Canada	Pension	Plan	Retirement
benefits:
a)	i f you retire on or after January 1 , 1988 - $1,354
b)	if you retire on or after January 1, 1989 - $1,400
e)	i f you retire on or after January 1, 1990 - $1,439
Once you become eligible to receive unreduced	Canada	Pension	Plan	Retirement
benefits	(on attaining	age	65) the
supplement will be recalculated as the amount required to be added to your accrued basic pension and the full unreduced Canada Pension Plan Retirement benefits, determined as at the actual date of your retirement. to	produce	the	following
monthly pensions:
a)	i f you retire on or after January 1, 1988 • $1,440
b)	If you retire on or after January 1, 1989 - $1,500
c)	i f you retire on or after January 1, 1990 • $1,560
(Once again, both sets of figures above do not take account of the reduction required to produce a Survl l>r option for the surviving spouse.)
This recalculated sup lement shall become your lifetime suppleme t.
In addition t o this recalculated lifetime supplement, you may t>» entitled to receive a further supplement f you retire before December 31, 1990, It s further supplement will represent thi amount, if any, necessary to produce total pension from Company Plans equal to the pension that would be payable if} v were then retiring at normal retirement, ,dated on the normal retirement - minimum [pension and full unreduced Canada Pension Plan retirement benefit both determined as of that date, your accrued pension including any escalation thereof and your related credited service at the date of your retirement. This further supplement shall then be added to and form part of your lifetime supplement,
9.	89 POINT HETUEHEHT
If you retire on or after January 1, 1988, after having reached age 5$ and your combined age and years of total service total 85 or more (bdt prior to having qualified for Speclel Early Retirement), you are entitled to an Immediate accrued pension equal to the amount of your vested accrued basic pension 'for service to the date of early	retirement reduced	by
one-third of 1% per month (l.e. 4* per year) for each month that retirement precedes the date you would have become eligible for Special Early Retirement or Normal Retirement, whichever first occurs.
- 63 -
In addition, you shall be entitled to a lifetime supplement calculated as If you had reached age 65 on	your date of
retirement.	but using	your	current
unreduced vested accrued basic pension and your related credited service, the full unreduced Canada Pension Plan Retirement benefit and the normal retirement minimum pension, all determined as of your actual date of retirement.
The lifetime supplement so calculated will then be reduced by one-third of li per month (t.e. 4% per year) for each month retirement preceded the date you would have become eligible for Special Early Retirement or Normal Retirement, whichever occurs first.
10.	OTHER EARLY RETIREMENT
At any time after you are age S5, you may request early retirement and elect to draw your pension. If you retire after having reached age 55 but prior to having qualified for Special Early Retirement or 85 Point Retirement, you are entitled to an immediate accrued pension equal to the amount of vested accrued basic pension to your credit for service to the date of your retirement, reduced by one*thlrd of 1* for each month (l.e. 4* bar year) you are under age 65 when your pension commences.
- I
In addition, you will be entitled to receive a lifetime supplement calculated as 1f you had reached age 65 on the date ot your retirement, but using your current unreduced vested accrued basic pension and your related credited service, the full unreduced Canada Pension Plan Retirement benefit and the normal retirement minimum pension, all determined as at your actual date of retirement.
This lifetime supplement so calculated will also be reduced by one-third of 1} for each month (1,e. 4* per year) you are under age 65 when your pension commences.
It. DISABILITY'RETIHEHEht (before age 65)
As long as you are eligible to receive disability benefits under the Group Insurance Plan you will receive service and basic pension credits under the Lebett Retirement Plan and you will not be retired. However. 1f you become partially disabled and you do not qualify for insurance benefits you may qualify for D1seb1l1ty Retirement. Retirement under this provision requires that:
a)	you are least age 50 and have completed 10 years of service, and
b)	you are certified to be partially dfsebled and thereby prevented from performing any work available with the Company, and
c)	It is mutually agreed by you and by the Company that you be retired under the Disability Retirement provision.
Ch retirement under the disability provision you are entitled to an Immediate pension equal to the amount of basic pension to your credit for service to your date of disability retirement without reduction for your earlier age of retirement. In addition, until you qualify for the earlier of receipt of C.P.P. disability benefits or the attainment of age (5, you will receive a monthly disability supplement equal to $7.0(5 multiplied by the number of years of credited service up to 30 years.
At age 6S, you will then receive a lifetime supplement calculated as i f you had reached age 65 on the date of your retirement, but using your current unreduced vested accrued basic pension and your related credited service, the full unreduced Canada Pension Plan retirement benefit and the Normal Retirement minimum pension determined as at your actual date of retirement.
Your vested accrued basic pension *nd minimum supplements are payable for as «n9 as you live and cease as of the first of the month in which your death occurs
- 66 -
A Plan member with an eligible spouse who takes Normal, Special Early, 8$ Point. Disability or Other Early retirement on or after January 1,	1988, shall receive a
Jofnt and survivor pension, unless the member delivers to the Plan Administrator (through your Employee Relations Office) a written waiver of such entitlement in the prescribed form within the 12 month period Immediately- preceding the commencement of the payment of the pension benefit.
Unless waived, your accrued basic pension and lifetime supplement, ff any, shall be reduced by 10* during your lifetime. Upon your death, your eligible surviving spouse shall receive a pension of 60* of your reduced accrued basic pension and lifetime supplement, if any (subject to a further actuarial reduction if your spouse is more than 10 years younger than yourself).
13. DEATH BEFORE RETIREMENT
If you should die on or after January 1, 1988 , while 1n the service of the Company and after you have reached age 55 and have 10 years of service, your eligible surviving spouse will receive a pension for her remaining lifetime. Her pension will be equal to the amount of pension she would have received from the Plan had you retired as of your date of death and elected a reduced joint survivorship pension based on your reduced accrued baste pension and lifetime supplement (without the actuarial reduction, if any), but her pension will be subject to a reduction if she i s more than 10 years younger than you. Pension payments to your eligible surviving spouse are guaranteed to return any required contributions you have made to the Plan with interest to your date of death.
The lifetime supplement will be calculated as if you had attained ape 65 on the date of your death, but using your current unreduced accrued basic pension and your related credited service, the full unreduced Canada Pension Plan retirement benefit and the normal retirement minimum pension all determined as of your actual date of death.
If you die before your pension commences and your spouse is not entitled to a pension as explained in the preceding paragraph, any contributions you nave made with interest to your date of death will be paid to the beneficiary you have named or, falling such, to your estate. You may change your beneficiary from time to time as permitted by law by completing a form which Is available from your Employee Relations Office.
The death benefit paid above shall not be less than provided in existing pension legist ation.
14. I F YOU LEAVE THE COH/PANY
If your service is terminated on or after January 1 , 1988, (other than by retirement or death) and 1f you have completed at least 2 years of credited service with the Company, you will be entitled to a deferred monthly pension at age 65 equal to the accrued bssle pension and lifetime supplement to your credit.
Instead of this deferred pension entitlement you may elect to transfer the commuted value of your pension to your Registered Retirement Savings Plan. Any amount so transferred may be subject to Provincial locking- in requirements.
Ifyou were a member of the Plan before January 1,	1974, when your service is
terminated you may either'
(a)	leave all of your contributions in the Plan and recefve at age $5 a monthly pension equal to the basic pension to your credit to December 31, 1973, which is included in the pension referred to above, or
(b)	withdraw your contributions plus interest to your date of termination of service in which case you forfeit your credited service to December 31, 1973, and any pension in respect of such service which is included in the pension referred to above.
- 69
15. ESCALATION OF PFNSION AFTER RETIREMENT
If you retired prior to January li 1988, from the service of the Cbrrpa-y pursuant to any	of	the	types	of	retirement	listed
above, your pension will be reviewed from January 1st of each year which follows your retirement date. Your accrued basic pension shall be increased on each January 1st following your retirement by the lesser of the percentage Increase In the Consumer Price Index for the preceding year and 2*.
If you rstlre on or after January 1, 1988, from the service of the Company pursuant to any	of	the	types	of	retirement	listed
above, your pension and lifetime supplement will be reviewed from January 1st of each year which follows your retirement date. Your accrued basic pension and lifetime supplement, if any, shall be increased on each January 1st following your retirement by the lesser of the percentage Increase in the Consumer Price Index for the preceding year and 2t.
Any spousal pension will also be escalated applying the same formula, with the first
increase occurtng on following your death.
the January 1st
- 70 -
16.	PREVIOUS PLANS (before January 1, 1958)
If you were a member of a previous Company pension plan (Government Annuity Plan) in effect before January 1 ,	1 958 , your
benefits from that plan are payable in accordance with the provisions of that previous plan and ere in addition to the benefit you receive from	the Labatt
Retirement Plan.
Since your period of membership in the previous plan is included In determining your total credited service, any basic pension to your credit under the previous plan is taken into account in determining the amount	of	any minimum	pension
supplement	you	are	entitled	to	receive.
Since your pension from the previous plan will be actuarially reduced If you retire before age	65,	your	basic L.R.P.	pension
will include an amount equal to the difference between your actuarially reduced previous plan pension and the amount of baste previous	plan	pension	at	age 65
reduced by the same factors	as are
applicable	to	your	L.R.P.	pension as
explained in Sections 8, 9, 10 or 11, as the case may be.
- 71 -
For these purposes your bsstc previous plan pension has been determined and fixed as that amount of pension payable from age 65 and guaranteed for a minimum of 5 years which would be available in accordance with the terms of the previous plan in effect at December 31, 1957 but excluding any pension purchased by voluntary contributions you may have made to that plan. Any increase in the amount of your Government Annuity which has resulted from an Increase 1n interest rate from 1975 is not considered as a part of your basic previous plan pension and would be payable as an extra benefit over and above your basic pension.
After retirement your total basic pension which i s subject to escalation as explained 1n Section 15 includes the amount of basic previous plan pension determined as explained above.
17.	OTHER INFORMATION
(a)	Annual Statement ■ You will receive a statement following each calendar year end showing the amount of benefits to your credit under the Plan.
(b)	Benefits Not Assignable - the benefits provided under the Plan are not assignable except as 1s specifically provided with respect to death benefits nor may you borrow against them at any
specifically provided at termination of service or in connection with death, no benefit can be surrendered.
time.
Similarly, except as
- 72
(e) Eligible Surviving Spouse • Your spouse Is eligible for the surviving spouse's pension under Section 12 or 13 provided you have been married for at least one year before your retirement or death, whichever is earlier, Under certain circumstances a common-law spouse may qualify and the Employee Relations Department will answer your questions in this respect.
(d)	Income Tax - All pension payments received from Company pension plans are considered as income for tax purposes in the year in which received. Your C.P.P. and O.A.S. pensions must also be reported as taxable income, when you file your annual tax return. Similarly, all monies received in lump sum withdrawals or death benefits must be declared as Income for tax purposes in the year in which received and are taxable unless such monies are transferred to a registered retirement savings plan.
18.	GOVERNMENT PENSION PLANS
Statutory benefits from government plans such as the Canada Pension Plan (C.P.P.) and the pension under the Old Age Security Act (O.A.S.) are in addition to the benefits payable under the lebatt
Retirement Plan.
- 73 -
Under current legislation your C.P.P. pension is payable when you reach age 65, or as early as age 60 on a reduced basis. The amount of your C.P.P. pension is dependent upon the amount of your earnings on which you have made C.P.P. contributions and the period during which you contributed. To Illustrate, an employee who retires at age 66 in 1988 and who is entitled to maximum benefits under the Canada Pension Plan receives a pension of $543 per month when he retires. After C.P.P, pension commences it is subject to adjustment each following January 1st depending upon increases In the Consumer Price Index.
Your O.A.S. pension is also payable from age 65 but if you take up residence outside Canada your O.A.S. pension may be discontinued unless you have been a Canadian resident for a prescribed number of years. If you plan to move out of Canada you should check into these requirements. The amount of O.A.S. pension is subject to quarterly adjustment upward if the Consumer Price Index increases. In January, 1988 the O.A.S. pension was $311 per month.
- 74 -
Your spouse will also receive O.A.S. pension benefits payable from age 65 subject to the same residency requirements specified above.
Application must be made to receive benefits from the Canada Pension Plan and Old Age Security and the appllcstlons should be filed 6 months in advance of your date of eligibility for such pensions to ensure prompt commencement of your benefits. As well as retirement pensions, the Canada Pension Plan provides certain disability, death and survivor benefits and further information can be obtained from your local Canada Pension Plan Office.
19.	PENSION EXAMPLES
The following examples hdve been calculated based on the Labatt 1 Retirement Plan provisions as amended January 1, 1988 and assuming the employee is credited with at least 1800 hours in each year until retirement. Minimum pension supplements are determined by taking into account the actual amount of your C.P.P. pension when you become eligible to receive it.
75 -
EXAMPLE A: normal R.ttr.mnt Onllon In 1?88 with 30 years of Credited Service.
This example is based on a nimbtr who:
•	retires as of July 1. 1998 at age 89
•	has credited Service of 22 years to December 11, 1979
with basic pension credited to that date Of $199*08 pir A,A AA month	$198.00
- has credited service of 8 years from January 1* 1990 to December 31 * 1987 with basic pension credited as follows:
For service i n 1980	SU.OO
1981	14.00
1982	18.00
1983	16.60
1984	17.26
1988	19.00
1986	19.60
1987	20.00
TOTAL	...o
,o per month
• works 40 hours in each of 28 weeks in 1988 for i total of (40 x 28) ■ 1040 hours which gives the employee crsdltsd tsrvlcs in 1998 of (1040 4 1800) a u«5S years and a baric pension credit of ($26.00 x 0 58) * $16.08 per month
TOTAL BASIC PENSION
- the employee is entitled to a ■Infmim monthly total of $1,440.00 from Company plans end C*P.P> pension since this employee has total credited service of (22 t 8 t 0.58) « 30.88 years
134.28
18.09
$347.1$
From age 65 the employee's monthly retirement income ft Sasic company pension credited:
To December 31, 1979	5 198*00
January 1, 1960 to December 31 , 1967 January 1, 1968 to June 30, 19168	134.25 15.08
Total Basic Pension	347.33
Add C.P.P. pension (as In 1988)	543.00
Add l.R.P* Hfetiae supplement	549.67
Total from Company plans and C.P,P*	1,440.00
Add O.A.S. pension (as in 1988)	311.00
Total ■ontHljr tncoal as ag« 65	*1.751.00
77
EXAMPLE E: Surviving Spoun'i Pension
This exemple is based on a member who retires as in Example "A", but who is married and whose death occurs shortly after retirement.
The belle pension and the lifetime supplement in Example "A are reduced by XOS as a result of the member having the survivor benefit.
The member's monthly income at retirement is:
Stile pension (347* 33 x .80)	$ 312.60
C.P.P. i n 1988	543.00
L.R.P. lifetime supplement (549.67 X .90)	
Total from Company plans and C.P.P.	1,350.30
Add O.A.S. i n 1988	311.00
Total monthly Income	M.W1.3Q
78
Following the member’s death, the surviving spouse would receive a Monthly Incoet of 601 of the above total froe Company plans ana C.P.P.
The Monthly fncoes Is:
Basic pension (312.60 X .60)
C.P.l, in mt
(if qualified for ■ $43.00 x .60)
l.B.P, Hfstlae supplement (494.70 X .60)
Total ftom Carrpsry plans and C.P.P,
In addition the surviving spouse nay qualify for the Q.A.Si monthly benefit of $311.
I 187.66
326.80
296.82
$110,11
gfiMPLt. C t_NprmaL. Retirement Pension 1n 181ft with M Year* of Credited service
This example fs based on a fleeter who:
•	retires as of January 1. 1988 at <9* 64
•	has Credited service of 17 years to December 11. 1979 with baste pension credited to that date of $ 163»00 per month
has credited service of 6 to Decenber 31, 1987 with follows*
years from January 1, 1960 basic pension credited as
for service i n i960 • 19BI -
1962	•
1963	• 1994 • 1965 -1916 -1987 -
313.00
14.00
18.00
16.50 17.26 19.00
19.50 >0.00
3153.00
TOTAL 5134.28 per month
> the employee is entitled to a basic monthly pension at age 6S of 3267.86
- 80 -
At age IS the taplo/ii is intltlsl t» a suppliasnt to provide a pro-rat; atfileua pansion calculated is follows:
Mfnlaue pension for 30 or tore years of cr«d 1 ted terete#	11,440.00
Subtract 1988 C.9.P.	•643.00
Minimum frem Company pansion plan based on 30 years service	197.00
Minimum frem Coapany pansion plan based on 2$ years or service (29730 a 897.)	747.60
Subtract title pansion (n ePeve)	•217.29
Monthly tvppleetni Mt4«4	1440.26
Free eft IS the employee1i eentMy leceae Hi
Basic t.R.f. pontfon
t.A.P, luppHeent
Total C»P>f• pimlcn
Total from Company and C.P.9.
Add O.A.J. pension (is in 1988)
Tot el eenthty Heeaa at ape II
167.21
460.26
643.00 1,290.60
311.00 11.401.60
81
EI1MPLE Oi Special Early Retirement In 1988
This example 1» based on a member who retires as of January 1, 1988 at age 83 with a total of 30 years of credited service.
Basle pension ts accrued as follows:
22 /ears	to December 31.	1979	
8 years	from Jan 1, 1980	to	me 3i,
	1960		313.00
	1981	•	14.00
	1982	•	18.00
	1983	•	18.50
	I9»<	•	17.28
	1988	•	19.00
	198$	•	19.SO
	1987	•	20.00
$198.00
TOTAL 1134,38 per month 134.88 TOTAL MONTHLY MS1C PENSION
At per the Special Early Retirement provisions of this plan, this member qualifier for Special Early fttUrutnt and will receive hit basic pension without reduction, a lifetime supplement, and a temporary supplement, to reach the Special Early Retirement minimum of $1,394.00 per month in 1988.
At age 65, which in this example is 2 years later, the temporary supplement will cease and the lifetime supplement will be recalculated such that the member in 1990 at age 8$ would then receive his baric pension without reduction, the recalculated lifetime supplement, and full unreduced c.P.P. benefits to reach the normal retirement minimum in 1990 of $1,960.00 per month.
The employee's monthly income will be:
At age <3 i n 1968:
lisle Company Plan pension	$ 332.29
Lifetime supplement
(tf.ft.O, min at 1988 • C.P.P. • Basic Pension)
$1,440.00	• $943.00 -	$332.29	/	964.75
T
« Lifetime •	$564.79
\	$1,394.00	- $332.25
Total ($.2.1, Minimum Ills)
$1.394.CO
- 83
At age 66 i n 1990:
Basic Company plan pension
(1332.25 indexed at 21 each of 2 years)	$	346.67
Recalculated lifetime supplement /it.R.D, fflln at 1990 • Basic Pension • C.P.P.
V 11.660 .00	-	$346.67	- $579.00)	636.33
C.P.P. benefits (projected to 1990)	679.00
Total from Company plans and C.P.P.	1 ,660.00
Add O.A.S. (projected to 1990)	340.00
Total Income at age IS	H.900*00
The member In this example elected to receive full C.P.P. benefits at age 6$.
Had the member elected to receive reduced C.P.P* benefits •* retirement (in this example age 63) the calculation of his l.R.P. pension would not be affected.
- 84 -
EXAMPLE E: 65 Point Retirement
this example ft bared on a aenbtr who is 6S years of age as of January 1, 1988 and hat credited service of ao years. As this member's age and years Of credited service equal 95, the membei qualifies for 65 point retirement.
The member's basic pension it accrued si follows:
•	22 years to December 31 , 1979	$198*00
•	8 years from Jan 1, 1980 to Oee 31, 1987
1990	•	113*00	
1991	•	14.00	
1962	•	15.00	
1963	.	26.60	
1984	a	17.26	
1985	a	19.00	
1986	-	19.60	
1987	-	20.00	
TOTAL		$134.25 per	month 134.25
TOTAL MONTHLY	BASIC PENSION		
- 85 -
At retirement (age 55), the member Is entitled to his total baste pension as shown above reduced by 41 per year prior to qualifying for either special early retirement or normal retirement, whichever would occur first. In this example the member would qualify for special early retirement first at age 60. Therefore, the basic pension 1s reduced by 41 for each year his pension commences prior to age 60*
The member also receives a lifetime supplement reduced in the same manner as the basic pension.
The member's monthly income 1st
Basic Company plan pension	$332.2$
Subtract reduction (4% per year prior to age 60)	66*4$
Reduced basic Company plan pension	265*60
ilfatUt supplement	*
N.ft.D. min at 1968 • C.P.P. • Basic Pension] $1,440.00	- $643.00 •	$332.2$	'
Subtract reduction (4% per year prior to age 60)
Reduced lifetime supplement
TOTAL MONTHLY INCOME
$64.76
iUiii
4S1.B0
86
GROUP INSURANCE PLANS FROM APRIL 1, 1988 TORONTO BREWERY WORKERS
The Company's Group Insurance Plan provides substantial	protection for you and your
dependents through contracts underwritten by insurance companies. The description in this booklet is intended to give you a general explanation of the insured benefits but it should be understood that the master insurance contracts are the governing documents.
In addition to benefits under this group insurance plan, hospital and medical benefits are available to you and your family under the government plans in effect in your province of residence and are payable In accordance with provincial regulations.
If you have any questions about your group insurance or if you require assistance in making claims, your Supervisor or Employee Relations office can give you the information you need.
1) SCHEDULE OF INSURED BENEFITS FOR EMPLOYEES
Accidental
Death i
Life Dismemberment
Insurance Insurance
April 1, 1988	$32,000	$32,000
January 1, 1989	33,000	33,000
January 1. 1990	34,000	34,000
- 87 -
NOTE:	Employees not actively at work on the
above named dates shall have their coverage increased only upon their date of return to active employment.
-	Weekly Indemnity benefit at 70* of your basic weekly earnings rate with benefits payable from first day of disability due to accident or fourth day due to illness, to a maximum of 25 weeks per disability.
-	Long term disability benefit at 65 2/3* of your basic earnings rate with benefits commencing when your Weekly Indemnity benefits cease.
For Employees and Dependents:
• Semi-private hospital benefit
-	Major medical expense benefit to $10,000
maximum,	with $10 deductible or $20
family deductible.
-	Dental care benefits at 100* for basic services, 75* for restorative services and 50* for orthodontia.
- 88 -
These coverages are explained more fully 1n the following pages. The accidental death and dismemberment Insurance, Weekly Indemnity, semf-prfvate hospital, major medical and dental care benefits apply only to those accidents and sickness which are not covered by Workers' Compensation or similar legislation.
Please refer to the description of each type of coverage for an explanation of what happens when you retire or terminate service.
2.	WO MM BE INSURED
You and your eligible dependents become insured on the completion of 90 days of work in a twelve month period.
Any employee absent from work on the date he becomes eligible will not be covered until the day he returns to work. Any dependent who Is hospitalized on the effective date of your insurance will not be covered until the day after release from hospital.
Dependents eligible for Insured benefits are your wife and unmarried children under 21 years of age. Coverage will be continued for a dependent child beyond 21 as long thereafter as the child Is a full-time student attending an educational Institution or on vacation therefrom. It Is your responsibility to notify your Employee Relations Department or Supervisor immediately of	any	change	In	your
dependents.
You will be given an application form to complete and sign when you become eligible for this insurance. The full cost of this group insurance plan is paid by your Company.
3.	LIFE INSURANCE
The amount of your life insurance is shown in the Schedule of Insured Benefits. In the event of your death from any cause your life insurance will be paid to the beneficiary you have named. You may change your beneficiary at any time within the limits set by law by completing a form which may be obtained from your Employee Relations Department.
90
The full cost of your life insurance will be continued during any period for which you are eligible to receive Long Term Dtsebltty benefits. If you become totally and permanently disabled your Long Term Disability benefits will continue until your normal retirement date, at which time your life insurance will be reduced to the same amount of insurance as is provided for employees who retire at the normal date, as explained In (a) below.
When you retire in accordance with the provisions of the Company's pension plan, your life insurance will be as follows:
(a)	Norma? Retirement - the amount of your lift insurance will be reduced to J4.000 as of your date of normal retirement.
(b)	Partial Disability Retirement (before age 65) • the amount of your life insurance will be reduced t o $4 ,000 as of your date of partial disability retirement.
(c)	Special Early Retirement (before age 65) • 1f you have attained age 60 and have 30 or more years of credited service under the terms of the John Labatt Limited Retirement Plan, the amount of your life Insurance will be reduced to 34,000. Otherwise your life Insurance will cease as of your date of termination of service with the Company.
- 91 -
You may obtain an Individual life insurance policy up to the amount of life Insurance which is cancelled when you retire or terminate service. Insurance 1s available under this conversion privilege even though you	are unable to	pass a medical
examination, but the premium rate will be based on your attained age at the date of conversion. Application for individual insurance must be made to the insurance company within 31 days of the date your group insurance 1s cancelled and during this 31 day period your group life Insurance Is considered as In effect without charge. Your other Insurance coverages cannot be converted to Individual policies.
4.	ACCIDENTAL DEATH S DISMEMBERMENT INSURANCE
The amount of your accidental death and dismemberment (ADAD) Insurance is shown in the Schedule of Insured Benefits. If within 365 days of and as the result of an accident occurring away from work, you suffer any of the losses listed below, payment will be made as Indicated.
I Payable	For loss of:
100*
Life, both hands, both feet, sight of both eyes, one hand and one foot, one hand or one foot and sight of one eye, use of both hands or both feet, quadrlplegta, paraplegia, hemiplegia, speech and hearing 1 n both ears.
- 92 -
75*		One arm or one leg, use of one arm or one leg.
BB-	2/33	One hand, one foot, sight of one eye, speech, hearing in both ears.
SS-	1/33	Thumb and Index finger, four fingers on one hand.
25*		Three fingers on one hand
16-	2/33	Thumb and one finger, two fingers, all toes on one
		foot, hearing in one ear.
Your AD4D insurance includes coverage for injury sustained while riding as a passenger in or on, boarding or alighting from, or being struck by a licensed aircraft. Benefits are not payable for any loss caused by suicide or self-destruction, war or service In the armed forces of any country, or injury arising out of or in the course of any occupation or employment for wage or profit.
In the event of your death the ADAD insurance benefit will be paid to the beneficiary you have named. This benefit is	payable in addition to your life
insurance. All other benefits under the ADAD insurance are payable to the Insured person.
Your ADAD insurance will be cancelled as of the date you retire or terminate service with the Company.
- 93 -
S. WEEKLY INDEMNITY BENEFIT
If you become totally disabled and are prevented from working due to a non-occupational accident or a sickness not covered by Workers' Compensation, you will receive Weekly Indemnity benefits provided you are under the care of a licensed physician. If disability commences during a period of lay-off you will be eligible for Weekly Indemnity benefits from the date you are recalled to work only if you have 10 or more years of seniority and you are recalled within a period of two weeks from the date of lay-off and you are totally disabled on that date.
The amount of your Weekly Indemnity benefit is 70% of your basic weekly earnings rate as of the date disability commences. When a general change in wage rates takes effect under the terms of the labour agreement, the amount of your Weekly Indemnity benefit from the effective date of such change will be 70X of the basic weekly rate to which you would be entitled if you were at work. Tour Weekly Indemnity benefit payments will be reduced by the amount of any disability payments which you are eligible to receive from the Canada Pension Plan or any other government source.
- 94 -
The benefit payment Is based on a 7 day week. For each day of absence for which a benefit Is payable you will receive one-seventh of the weekly benefit. Benefits are payable from the first day of absence if disability fs due to accident, or from the fourth day of disability due to Illness. Payments continue as long as you are disabled, up to a maximum of 26 weeks for each period of disability. (Refer to Long Term Disability insurance for benefits payable if disability continues for more than 26 weeks).
Where It Is necessary for an employee to have dental surgery, benefits will be payable commencing on the fourth day following such surgery and will continue up to a maximum of two weeks for any such claim, but only on receipt of proper certification by a dental oral surgeon.
A disability resulting from the same cause as a previous disability will be treated as continuation of the disability unless you have completely recovered and have been back at work for at least 14 days.
Your Weekly Indemnity insurance will be cancelled as of the date you retire or terminate service with the Company and your Weekly Indemnity benefits will cease as of that date.
6. LONG TERM DISABILITY BENEFIT
Long Term Disability (LTD) benefits become payable only after you have received Weekly Indemnity benefits for the maximum period, or when you have received Workers' Compensation payments for a continuous period of 26 weeks.
During the first 78 weeks of LTD benefits, your benefit will be payable weekly at 66-2/31 of your basic weekly earnings rate in effect during that period.	At the end
of the first 78 weeks, your LTD benefit will be fixed at 66-2/33 of your basic weekly eamfngs rate fn effect In the 78th week of the LTD benefit period and thereafter your LTD benefit will be payable in an equivalent monthly amount at the end of each month, For example, if your earning rate fn the 78th week fs $17.40 per hour:
a)	your weekly earnings
rate i s 40 X $17.40	■	$696.00
b)	your weekly LTD benefit in the 78th week i s 66-2/3* of
$696.00	•	464.00
c)	thereafter your monthly LTD benefit
1s 4-1/3 X $464.00	■	2,010.67
Your LTD benefit payments will be reduced by any disability payments you are eligible to receive from Workers' Compensation, the
Canada Pension Plan source.
or other government
- 96 -
In order to qualify for LTD benefits you must be under the continuing care of a licensed physician, and during the first 78 weeks of LTD benefits, be unable to perform a regular job available tn the bargaining unit; thereafter you must be unable to engage in any gainful occupation for any employer for which you are reasonably qualified by training, education or experience. If you are again disabled due to the same or related cause, your absence will be treated as a continuation of disability under the LTD benefit unless you have been back at work for at least six months.
Payment of benefits will require submission of such appropriate medical evidence as may be requested by the insurer from tfme to time. You will be entitled to benefits during the continuation of disability as defined above except that fn no event will benefits be paid beyond your normal retirement date. If you should elect to retire early, LTD benefits wtTt cease as of your date of early retirement. No benefits will be payable for absences due to disabilities caused by self-inflicted injuries while sane or insane, insurrection, war, service in the armed forces of any country, or participation in • riot, or during disabilities resulting from working for another employer.
97
If you engage in rahabflUatfva employment, your LTD benefit wfll continue for up to 24 months but wfll be reduced by 75* of what you earn from rehabilitative employment. For example, i f you receive a monthly LTD benefit of $2,010.77 and you earn 1600 in rehabilitative employment:
Monthly LTD benefit	12,010.67
Subtract 751 of 1600	450.00
LTD benefit during rehabilitation VI .560.67 Earnings from rehabilitative	600.00
employment	___
Monthly income during	lz.i4o.S7
rehabilitation
Provided your employment with the Company has not been terminated, while you are in receipt of LTD benefits you will continue to be covered for all other group insurance benefits. Please refer to the Labatt Retirement Plan section of this booklet for a description of the pension credits which will accrue to you while you are disabled.
Your LTD insurance will be cancelled as of the date you retire or terminate service with the Company.
Note: You may not receive wages or other allowances such as holiday pay, vacation pay, Weekly Indemnity, L.T.O., WoiTcers' Compensation or similar benefits from more than one source for the same day or Part day.
- 98
7. SEMI-PRIVATE HOSITAL BENEFIT
Your provincial health plan (OH IP) provides basic hospital benefits for you and your family but generally limits beneffts for room charges to the amount payable for ward accommodation.	Insured benefits are
provided under the Company's plan for you and your covered dependents to supplement the provincial plan benefit and provide payment for room charges up to semi-private accommodation in a licensed hospital. If hospitalized In a private room the benefit will be limited to that which would have paid for semi-private accommodation. These benefits apply in all confinements approved by a 1 learned physician except those covered by Workers' Compensation.
Your semi-private hospital insurance will be cancelled as of the date you retire or terminate service with the Company except that:
(a)	Ifyou are totally disabled when your insurance Is cancelled, benefits will be extended for up to one year for expenses Incurred during the continuance of that disability.
(b)	If one of your dependents is in hospital when your insurance Is cancelled, benefits will be extended for a maximum of one year provided the dependent remains In hospital.
- 99 -
(c)	If a dependent wife is pregnant on the date her insurance ft cancelled, she wilt be entitled to semi-private hospital benefits up to the date of childbirth or termfnitton of pregnancy as if the insurance were still in force.
S.	MAJOR MEDICAL EXPENSE BENEFIT
Basic medical benefits are provided for you and your family under your provincial health plan (OHIP). The major medical expense benefit under the Company's group insurance plan provides benefits for you and your covered dependents for certain expenses not covered by the provincial hospital and medical plans.
Expenses allowed under the major medical expense benefit are listed below. Benefits are payable only if the services are recommended by a physician and If provincial legislation does not prohibit insurance of any such expense.
-	drugs and medicines dispensed on the written prescription of a physician
-	private duty nursing by registered graduate nurses who are not ordinarily resident in your home and are not related to you or your dependents
hospital charges for other than room
and board not paid by the provincial plan	i
oxygen and its administration
blood and blood plasma
rental of wheel chair, hospital bed or iron lung
splints, trusses, braces, crutches, casts
artificial limbs and eyes provided the loss of the natural limb or eye occurred while insured under this plan
services of duly qualified and licensed physiotherapists other than members of the insured's family
local ambulance services
101 -
You are required to pay the first $10 of expenses Incurred in each calendar year. This is known as the "deidirdtlble" and is applied to each insured person, employee or dependent, except that the total deductible for all members of your family will not be more than $20 in each calendar year. If expenses which are included in	the
deductible occur within the last three months of the calendar year the same expenses may be applied against the deductible for the next calendar year. If two or more insured members of your family are injured in a common accident only one deductible will be applied against their resulting combined expenses incurred in any one calendar year.
The amount of benefit payable is determined as follows:
(a) the charges are totalled for all allowable expenses incurred by the employee or dependent during the calendar year
- 102 -
(b)	from this total the deductible is subtracted
(c)	the major medical expense benefit then pays 100ft of the remainder.
The maximum total amount payable for any individual is $10,000. However, after a person has been insured for a full calendar year, up to $2,500 of the original benefit will be reinstated on January 2nd of each year but at no time will the maximum exceed the original amount. i 1
The major medical expense benefit does not cover periodic	health check-ups	and
examinations, eye refractions or fitting of glasses, dental	servlets, travel	for
health, expenses resulting from an act of war, charges for hospital room and board, hospital and medical expenses for services covered by the provlnctel plan, expenses for injury or illness epvered by Workers' Compensation Act, or any| service for which an employee or dependenti does not have to pay.
If when you retire you are entitled to group life insurance as explained in Section 3, you and your eligible dependents will continue to be insured for major medical expense benefits. You will continue to be required to pay the first $10 of expenses Incurred in each calendar year as a "dedu-dhible" applied to each insured person with the total deductible for all members of your family not to exceed $20 in each calendar year. You will then be reimbursed for BOt of any eligible expenses Incurred after the date of vour retirement In excess of the deductible. The maximum total amount payable for expenses incurred after your date of retirement is $5,000 for each individual member of your family.
If you terminate service and do not qualify for retired benefits your major medical insurance will be cancelled as of the date on which your service I s terminated, except that the following extended benefits are provided:
- 104 -
(a)	if you are totally disabled when your insurance 1s cancelled, major medical benefits will be extended for up to one year, provided such expenses are incurred during the continuance of the disability.
(b)	if one of your dependents Is In hospital when your insurance Is cancelled, benefits will be extended for a maximum of one year provided the dependent remains 1n hospital.
(c)	if a dependent wife is pregnant on the date her insurance is cancelled, benefits will be payable for treatment as a result of that pregnancy.
9. DENTAL CARE BENEFIT
Dental care benefits are provided for you and your eligible dependents subject to the limitations and exclusions described below.
- 105 -
Eligible services are all reasonable and customary dental services which are recommended as necessary and performed by a qualified dentist or physician and for which a Treatment Plan has been submitted to and approved by the Insurer before the services are rendered. The filing of a Treatment Plan Is not required if the total cost of the proposed work 1s less than $300 or If treatment is rendered In emergency conditions. Eligible dental services are classified under three major categories:
(a)	Basic Services - examinations and cleaning of teeth (one In any six-month period), extractions, fillings and other necessary treatment for the relief of dental pain.
(b)	Restorative Services - crowns and Inlays, bridge work, dentures, root canal therapy (endodontics), and the treatment of tissues and bones supporting the teeth (periodontics).
(e)	Orthodontia - proper fitting of natural teeth and prevention or correction of Irregularities of the
teeth.
106
You will be reimbursed for 100* of the cost of eligible dependents up to a maximum for each Insured person of $650 in a calendar year. You will also be reimbursed for 75* of the cost of Restorative Services and 50* of the cost of orthodontia to a lifetime maximum benefit of $3,250 ($3,500 effective from January 1, 1989; $3,750 effective from January 1 , 1990) for each insured person for Restorative Services and Orthdontta combined. Benefits will be paid on the basis of the lesser of the actual fee charged or the amount stated in the current Dental Association Schedule of Fees In the province in which you reside. If optional procedures are possible, benefits will be payable In accordance with the procedure Involving the smallest fee.
Expenses incurred for the replacement of dentures are eligible for benefits, except that if the replacement is for a denture for which benefits were payable under this plan, benefits for the replacement will be payable only If at least 3 years have elapsed since the placement or replacement for which benefits were paid. In addition, benefits are payable for rebasing, relining or repairing dentures. Benefits will not be paid for the replacement of dentures which have been lost, misplaced or stolen.
- 107 -
Dental care benefits are not payable for any service eligible for payment from another source such as provincial health insurance plans, Workers' Compensation or government plans, expenses fneurred principally for cosmetic purposes, expenses resulting from an act of war, or any service for which an employee or dependent does not have to pay.
Your dental care insurance will be cancelled as of the date you retire or terminate service and claims will not be accepted for any service performed after the date on which your Insurance fs cancelled.
10. HOWTO CLAIM
Wien you or any of your dependents are entitled to receive insured benefits, you should obtain the necessary claim forms from your Medical Department, Foreman or Department Head. Wen you have completed the employee's portion of the claim form you should have your physician or dentist complete h1s section. Then send the completed hospital, major medical or dental form to the insurance company and the completed Weekly Indemnity or LTO forms to the Medical Department.
- 10S -
In order to qualify for payment of beneffts, claims must be submitted wlthfn the time limit set out below:
(a)	WEEKLY INDEMNITY BENEFIT - Claim must be filed within 90 days of commencement of disability. In case of illness beneffts will be paid as previously described only i f you see a licensed physician no later than the fourth day of disability and remain under the doctor's care until you are able to return to work. If you do not see a doctor by the fourth day, your benefits will be payable only from the day on which you first visit a doctor, In case of accident, you must see the doctor no later than the day following the accident in order to qualify for benefits from the first day; otherwise benefits will by payable as if -the disability Is due to illness. Diagnosis and prescription by telephone only does not constitute a ’visit" for this purpose.
(b)	LONG TERM DISABILITY BENEFIT - Claim must be filed within 6 months following the date from which LTD benefits become payable but the earlier the better in order to avoid any delay in commencement of your LTD benefit payments.
- 109 -
(c)	SEMI-PRIVATE HOSPITAL BENEFIT - Claim must be tiled within 90 days of the date of hospitalization. Standard claim forms are available at all hospitals. Benefits will be paid to you unless you complete the appropriate section of this form to assign benefits to the hospital.
<d)
MAJOR MEDICAL EXPENSE BENEFIT - Claim must be submitted no later than the end of the calendar year following the year in which the expense was Incurred except that, when your Insurance is cancelled for any reason, proof of claim must be submitted within 90 days of the date of termination of your insurance.	Itemized bills and
statements showing the patient's name, dates of service, prescription numbers for drug expenses and amount of the charges, must accompany the claim form verifying all such expenses including those which you have paid to satisfy the deductible. It is suggested that such claims not be submitted until the total bills exceed the deductible by at least $10.
- 110 -
(e) DENTAL CARE BENEFIT - Claim must be submitted by the end of the calendar year following the year In which the expense was Incurred except that proof of claim must be submitted within 90 days of the date on which your insurance Is cancelled for any reason. A separate claim form must be filled out for each member of your family for whom you are making claim. The dentist's statement on this form, or any bills supporting your claim, must show the patients's name, dates and nature of the treatment and the charge. I'fThe total cost associated with proposed dental work is $300 or more, a Treatment Plan	must be
submitted to the insurer as explained In Section 9. You should have your dentist complete a claim form setting out details as to the proposed treatment and the cost and send this form to the Insurance company for their review. You will then be advised as to the charges, or portion thereof, which the Insurer considers eligible for benefits.	Upon
completion of the dental treatment you again submit a claim to receive payment of the approved benefits.
Failure to see your doctor promptly or to submit your claim together with the doctor's or dentist's report or other itemized statements within the above time limits will result in the rejection of your claim.
Ill
PROVINCIAL HOSPITAL ftO MEDICAL PLANS
The provincial health plan < OHIP) provides basic health benefits for you and your eligible dependents (spouse and unmarried children under age 21). OHIP provides benefits for standard ward care, medical services such as doctor's calls at office, hospital and home, surgical procedures, administration of anaesthetics, diagnostic procedures and x-rays, chiropractic and osteopathic treatments, eye tests and specified dental procedures, as stipulated by government regulations.
The Company pays the required OHIP premium for permanent employees. Vwien you retire at your normal date or under the partial disability retirement provision, or the special early retirement provision under the labstt Retirement Plan, you will continue to be covered for OHIP and the Company will pay any premium required on your behalf.
- 112 -
If your employment is terminated, and you do
not qualify for Company-paid coverage as
•xplafned above, no further premium will be paid by the Company on Your behalf. However, you may convert your OHIP to coverage on a pay-direct basis and if you make application for this within 90 days of your termination there should not be any break in your coverage.
Your provincial coverage ceases at your death but your family may apply for CHIP on a pay-direct basts. A child who ceases to qualify as your dependent may also obtain pay- direct 0HIp.	The major medical and OHIP
benefits for which you are covered after retirement will be continued to your spouse on your death.
Please see your Employee Relations department for any further Information.
- 113 -
GUARANTEED WAGE PLAN
AGREEMENT between Labatt's Ontario Breweries, Division of Labatt Brewing Company Limited (Metro Toronto Brewery) and Local 304.
WHEREAS the Company has entered into a Collective Agreement with the above named Union covering a bargaining unit in Toronto.
AND WHEREAS the said Parties have agreed to make this supplementary Agreement which is to be a supplement to the said Collective Agreement, and any grievances arising out of the admintstratfon of this supplement may be dealt with under the Grievance Procedure of the Collective Agreement.
NSW THEREFORE the parties agree to the continuation of the Guaranteed Wfage Plan as hereinafter set forth with such continuation to become effective on the 1st day of September, 1983 or on any later date on which approval for continuation has been received from the Federal Government holding that:
The Plan meets the requirement of Employment and Immigration Canada wfth respect to Supplemental Unemployment Benefit Plans,
Payments by the Company pursuant to this Plan will be classed as deductible expenses for corporate income tax purposes, and.
- 114 -
(c)
1.
2.
The receipt by employees of the benefits provided by this Plan will not disqualify s ch employees from receiving any part of the Unemployment Insi 'anc* Benefits to which they wa Id otherwise be entitled.
PURPOSE
The purpose of this Plan is to provide a method of guaranteeing income to certain employees who are laid off and separation pay in certain cases.
ELIGIBILITY FOR PARTICIPATION III THE PLAN
Any regular hour rated employee having at laast on year of seniority determined as of he September 1st immediately preci Ing his layoff shall be eligible o participate In this Plan.
Notwithstanding thf above, employees not classiffed as regular employees prior to March 21 . 1968 shall not be eligible to parttc pate In this Plan until September st of the year following the employee's attainment of three (3) years of seniority.
- 115 -
EXCEPTIONS
This Plan has no application to and
provides no benefits for:
<aJEmpIoyees who have been laid off for disciplinary reasons and if such lay- off Is questioned under the Grievance Procedure of the Collective Agreement fin 1 disposition of any grievance	determine the
employee's sta us under the Plan.
(b)	Employees vrho have been laid off because of iny strike, lockout, slow-down, picketing or other action by employees of this Company or by employees of any other employer who are represented for collective bargaining purposes by any of the Unions which were party to the Ontario Industry Memorandum of Agreement which led to the renewal of this Plan, or by any Local thereof or successor Unions thereto.
(c)	Employees who have been terminated because of specific direction or decree from any Governmental authority which has the affect of curtailing any of the Company's operations; unless
{1)The direction or decree Is the result of tn tillage) set committed by the Company or one of Its representative s, or
(tl)The dtree Ion or decree purports to change :he method of beer distribution <r beer retailing within the Province (f Ontario; or
116 -
(d)	Employees who have been laid off because of any act of war or the hostile set of any foreign power or by any act of sabotage or insurrection or by any act of God.
(e)	Employees who are laid off and who have arranged with the Company to take a leave of absence without pay for a specific period in lieu of their lay- off. These employees will be deemed to have opted out of the Plan for such period.
DISQUALIFICATION FOR BENEFITS
An employee who has been laid off and who would otherwise be eligible for participation in the Plan shall not receive any payment under the Plan for any week:
(f)	In which he has been on lay-off and has failed to apply for U.I, benefits, or in which he has been disqualified or disentitled from U.I. benefits by any reason other than serving a two (2) week waiting period.
(11) In which he has been on layoff and has failed to keep himself registered for employment with the Canada Manpower Centre in those cases where such registration is necessary to qualify for U.I. benefits or for reduction of U.I. waiting period.
{111) I n which he has faded or refused to accept employment deemed suitable for him by the Unemployment Insurance Commission.
(fv)In which he has failed to accept and report for any appropriate work assignment of at least one normal working day unless excused for reasonable cause.
(v)!n which he is in receipt of a benefit provided by the Company's insured Weekly Indemnity or Long Term Ofsabtlfty Plans.
(vf)Aftar he has become entitled to receive any pension under the Company or Government Pension Plan.
(vff)In respect of which he fs qualified for * compensation from the WofkbTS1 Compensation Board for any compensable accident or illness.
5.	DEFINITIONS
For the purpose of this Plan:
"Wages" shall' mean actual earnings for work performed and vacation pay, payment for any leave of absence with pay granted, e.g. jury duty, bereavement pay, payment for Statutory Holidays	and
call- in pay.
"Week1
week.
shall mean the Company's payroll
- lie -
"Compensates! and available hours" means as applied to any particular week for an employee:
(a)	All hours worked by the employee for the Company or for any ofhet employer 1 n such week, plus
(b)	All hours not worked by the employee in such week but for which he receives wages from any employer, plus
(e) All hours scheduled in such week for an employee who is not on lay-off and which he has not worked for any reason other than lack of work, plus
(d)	All hours scheduled 1n such week for an employee who is on lay-off and which he has not worked for any reason other than lack of work after being given reasonable notice according to the established practice of the Company that such scheduled hours were available to be worked by him.
"Week of lay-off" means a week in which the employee's compensated and available hours are less than forty (40).
- 119 -
BENEFITS PROVIDED FCR LAID-OFF EMPLOYEES
Subject to the terms and conditions of the plan as herein set out each eligible employee who is laid off from the bargaining unit shall receive In addition to any wages earned in the week a benefit from the Plan for each week of lay-off calculated by determining the product of items 1, 2 and 3 below and deducting from such product the amount of item 4.
1.	Seventy percent (70%) for eligible employees as hereinabove defined.
2.	The straight time hourly rate of the
employee In effect as of time of layoff. .	.
3.	The excess of forty over the compensated and available hours of the employee.
4.	The actual benefit, if any, for which such employee is eligible under the Unemployment Insurance Act for such week.
- 120 -
7. WELFARE BENEFITS DURING LAY-OFF
An employee who is laid off continues to participate in the Welfare Plan of the Company applicable to employees 1n his Bargaining Unit to the end of the month following the last month In which he has worked 1n the Bargaining Unit, or until the end of the last month during which he has drawn a benefit under this Plan, whichever 1s the later. Welfare Plan for the purpose of this section does not include the Pension Plan or the Company's insured Weekly Indemnity and Long Term Disability Plans which cover only Indemnity for wages actually lost because of illness or accident.
An employee on lay-off who pursuant to the above, has ceased to participate 1n the Welfare Plan is restored to participation Immediately upon completion of eight (E) hours work In the Bargaining Unit.
- 121 -
8. DURATION OF BENEFITS
The maximum benefit entitlement of an employee at any time shall not exceed that benefit established in accordance with T-atfle "A". However, the employee's actual benefit entitlement will be less than the maximum benefit entitlement if he has used any benefits and has not subsequently restored them.
Weeks of benefits are restored based upon the formula of l/10th of a week for each eight (8) full hours during which the employee earned wages from the Company up to the employee's maximum benefit entitlement set out In Table "A' below. No credits towards future benefit entitlements are allowed for wages earned during any period in which the employee is already entitled to the maximum benefits set out in Table "A".
122
TABLE 'A'
SENIORITY *
15 years or more 10 years or more 5 years or more 4 years or more 3 years or more 2 years or more 1 year or more
BENEFIT **
78 weeks of benefits 65 weeks of benefits 52 weeks of benefits 45 weeks of benefits 35 weeks of benefits 25 weeks of benefits 15 weeks of benefits
Completed years of seniority determined as of the September First 1 mmed 1 ately preceding h i s lay- off.
Maximum Benefit entitlement.
The maximum number of weeks of benefits which an employee may use during any twelve (12) month period commencing September 1st shall not exceed his Maximum Benefit Entitlement determined as of that September 1st In accordance with Table "A" above.
Each eligible employee's weeks of benefits shall be decreased by one week for each week in respect of which he is on lay-off and in receipt of benefits for more than thirty- two (32) hours; and by 4/5ths of one week for each week in which he ts on lay-off and in receipt of benefits for more than twenty-four (24) hours; and by 3/5ths of one week for each week in which he Is on lay-off and in receipt of benefits for more than sixteen (16) hours; and by 2/5ths of one week for each week in which he i s on lay-off and
in receipt of benefits for more than eight (8) hours; and by l/5th of a week in which he is on lay-off and in receipt of benefits for eight (8) hours or less; and his weeks of benefits shall also be decreased by one week for each week in which he is on lay-off but was disqualified for any of the reasons set out in subsections (1), (11),	(<11) and
(1v) of Section 4.
9.	DEDUCTIONS
Any payment made under this Plan shall be subject to any deductions required by Federal, Provincial or Municipal authority or by the provisions of the Collective Agreement, or by voluntary authorization from the employee concerned.
10.	SEPARATION PAY
An employee shall be eligible for a separation payment as set forth below If on any date during his lay-off the hours scheduled for him during the previous twelve (12) consecutive months were less than fifty percent (50%) of normal full time hours if he is not eligible for any Company or Government pension or for benefits under the Company's insured Weekly Indemnity Plan or Long Term Disability Plan.
124
In special cases where a laid off employee appears to have little prospect of recall to regular work within a period of six months he may request immediate termination and severance pay, and with the concurrence of the Company and the Union this may be granted notwithstanding the eligibility clause above.
An employee eligible for a separation payment hereunder must apply for it not later than six months after he first becomes elfglble therefore, otherwise his right to such payment shall be cancelled.
Notwithstanding the above, if the Company permanently discontinues an operation, an employee laid off as a result thereof must apply for and shall receive any separation pay to which he is entitled without waiting the 6-month period.
Ifan employee applies for and accepts a separation	payment hereunder,	his
employment	Is terminated and	his
seniority and other rights under the Collective	Bargaining Agreement	are
cancel led.
- 125 -
The amount of the separation payment of an eligible employee shall be equal to t h e sum o f:
(a)	One week's base earnings (computed on the basis of his hourly rate in effect as of time of lay-off) multiplied by the number of his completed years of seniority as of the last day he actively worked In the Bargaining Unit, plus
(b)	$95.00 multiplied by the number equal to the number of unused weeks of benefit entitlement which an employee has to his credit at the date of his separation. However, an eligible employee who applies for separation pay at the time he first becomes eligible therefore shall have the $95.00 supplemented by an additional $30.00.
The Company shall be authorized to deduct from any separation pay payable to an .employee hereunder the amount of any Guaranteed Wage Plan payment made to such employee which the employee was not entitled to receive.
- 126
U. APPLICATIONS
Employees shall be required to observe such rules and follow such procedures and make such reports and applications as shall be prescribed by the Company after consultation with the Union. The willful fatstficstlon of any fact material to the determination of an employee's benefit rights under the Plan shall result in the forfeiture of any benefit rights he may have under the Plan for a period of twelve (12) months subsequent to the discovery of such falsification, and this shall not preclude any other disciplinary action which may be imposed subject to the Grievance Procedure of the Collective Agreement.
IS. REPORTING
The Company will make periodic reports to the Union weekly while employees are laid off and receiving benefits under the Plan and quarterly If no employees are on lay-off, giving the Union complete information as to the number of employees who have been laid off, the duration thereof. the payments made to each Individual under the Plan, the number of Ineligible and disqualified employees, and such other similar Information as may be relevant.
- 127 -
\ J
13. DURATION OF AGREEMENT
This Agreement shall continue until August 31> 1991. During negotiations for renewal of the relevant Collective Agreement, the Union is free to request amendments to this Agreement which shall also be part of such negotiations, but on the understanding that any amendments to this Agreement will not take effect any earlier than September 1, 1991.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto have AFFIXEO THEIR SIGNATURE THIS 2S*
JSS.
THEIR SIGN/ IK . 1989.
OAY OF
f«R THE COWAN*:
FOR
•KUtntHfl
(IM Skk* Utl Uq«w
wmcnmmw
OvMMM
December 21, 1934
Mr. C. Flynn, fleet Chsliaan,
Local 304,
Labett's Ontario •reveries,
Metre Toronto Bravery.
Daar Mr. Flynni
This will confirm the Coepany'e Intention with respect to the satellite warehouse at 6600 Corevay in Mtiilisiuga. The Conpany agree* that all tepLoyees classified u "Staging Machine Operators" shall be covered by tha scope clauia of tha currant Collective Agreement with Local 304.
For purposes of "weekly* ovartiae distribution, it la Mfaad that ovartiae ehell be offered by location (la. Metro Btaflng and Oorevay Virehouie) to aaployeaa working at tha location where tha Conpany requires the overtlee to be parforead. For purposei of "weekend* overtlaa distribution, tha Union and Company atria that overtlee opportunities shall be offered to all 3U|ln| Department aaployeaa in accordance with Depirtaantal practice, ragatdlaii of the location of the overtlaa. It la agreed that the teraa "weekend" overtlee shall be defined by the currant Departmental understanding of thoie teraa.
The Company further agrees that contemplated changes in overtlaa distribution and staffing procedure# will be discussed with the Union prior to lapleaentation,
Thle letter shall renin in effect during the tare of the current Collective Agteeeent, and shall, unlesa specifically renavad by the parties tease to be effective upon the expiry of thia Collective Agreement.
bployee Relatione Manager For the Unlom
130
Mm Kg') KM
IUWW
UMl't UM
t>n iart mm mot
WmI Ctmm H"m Omvwm
LAMT'8 OtfMMO BAEWEFVE8 / DMaioft ef tM*t Bm*v Compmy UmHtd
Bat 6060, 8m. ‘A: 60 Homiirooo Aootf, tMbk&m, Ontario IMN 9N7 IMophont <416) 2464761
OttHbtt 31, IHI
Hr, C, flynn,
PI 4.11 ChotTOOB,
Lottl MI,
Ubott'o OaUcU Irovtriu, Kitit Tkmu Irmijr.
Door Hr. flyoni
roquMtod.
All olhtr provision# portiloini to lUu 4ty« U oullln*4 In ArtUlt 31.0) rtooln In olfKt.
Tovrr truly,
Mi tlott Pty Hwuuti (Article 31.03)
S. K, VuthMBO lopleyoo Million# Kinijit
For tH* Unloni
- 131
UUII euAM
IMIMMT
ItMaw UbWI'l IM
EaM tncfc Mai WuM VVMl CrM* to** 0#MM
MUATirsMST
CiMttC Up*
Deeo-b«r 21, l«l
Mr. C. flynn plant Chaltaan Local 304
Ubatt's Ontario invirlet Metro Toronto Brewary
Dote Hr. fljmnt
In tbo event that tho Caepany decldea to reduce manpower in tha Staging Department, it ia agreed that eaployiae vho hold Stafinf Oepartatnt sanlority an or prior to February 27« 1905 ahell, notvlthatandinf my provialona in the Collective Afteeaeat, fee dieted to hold ttaatar departmental aanlorlty than all thoae eaoloyaai who acquired dapartaental aanlority in $ta|ln| altar February 27, 19BJ. This letter ahell apply for ii long at the Coravay Varehouio ia a temporary Company facility.
Youra truly,
t. f. Uuthaenn Kaployaa Relatione Menaier
For the Unloni

132 -
UNttMMI
Hu* light •OAJt
(Ttabottm)
nMMMrtr
CMMtt
CMMkUfiM
Uq suck lital Uquot WvsiC*MiftMw Owwmw
LABtfra ONTUVO BftCWDWft f CMfWon ef
Boa 5060, $n "A”, BO Raaotwoa Rood, Etototootn.
(4W) 24W7S1
Dwiabir )lt IBM
Mr. C. Flynn,
Flint Chilraui,
u»v iw,
Ubatt's Ontario Rreverlea, Nitrt Toroato Irmry
Daar Mr. flytuw
Should aandatory rstiriMflt at i|i ii ba ee lower paralttad by lav in thti province and e rtgular aiployst eontlwei In aaployaant beyond hi* neraai ratlraaant data, the following condition* shell govern such aaployvent end bt added to the Collective Agreecent.
1.	The Fansion to which the aaployee haa ^aecee entitled at hi* nsrael ratlraeant data (the "Itosicn.) attall be irosen u of the eaployae's noraal retirement data aa defined in the Pension Plan.
2.	Th« eeployee'a Penalon shall beeosa payable aa of the first day of the month iaaadistsly following the month the employee esaiad to be laployed with the Coepeny or aa of the first day of the eonth (Mediately preceding the etployee'i aeventy-firit (71) birthday whichever shall flrat occur (the "Penalon Date”).
3.	The eeplgyee'a fansion will Include any escalation benefits which occur free his neraai retlcaeani data to hie Peaalon bate.
4.	No contribution to the Penalon flan vlU ba Hde altar the aaeloyaa hu reached his neraai raUreaent data end no service ehall be credited after the ilorreentlonad data,
3. An eaployit'a Pension will not be effected tv My asandaanta aide to the Pension flan altar the taployta’4 neraai retirement date.
i. An eapleyaa'e Penalon bsnalita will be actuarlally revlevtd effective it et the Pension Data having regard to the aaployaa'a fanalen having baan dalamd line* his neraai ratlraaant data.
Ret
Defatted Faj»wp'
133 -
7. for putpoaaa of ealtulotloa aw minimum pmution tupploaonti tha Canada Fonalo* flan and 014 Aga Soaurlty banalltt* vhara applioablo* will ba takoa lilta fcetount at tha laval la atfaet at tha amployoa'a normal ratiramaat Mt«.
I. An aaployaa vbo tonttnuaa in tha amploy of tba Company altar hla narnal raclroaant data am dolled In tba faaalon Plant ahall ba ontltlad to only tha laaurad valiar* banadta pravidad to amployota am ratlroaant aa at hla bo rami ratiraaant data.
Tear* vary truly.
I. I. tfuthamaa
lapleyao KaUtlona Moaafor
Par tha Miami
&mLa*iul
13* -

Cryiui IP*.
Cm Bwdt UM Uquor
lAMTSOtttUtiO BREWERS/W*AJ«cYl*«aasre-ro Company
Bcoc 60M, 8in. “A" 50 FWouroea Rood, Etocsoota, Ontsrio[MM SN? Wtphone (4tg 2484781
December 21, 1988
Nr. C* Flynn,
Plant Chairman.
Local 304,
Labatt's Ontario Bravorloi,
Metro Toronto Brevery.
Dear Mr. Flynnt
In Utlain kwitli
fin employee's eligibility for sick day* and pa Iclpatlon In the Viokly Indemnity and Long Ter* Disability Plans oiaio Immediately upon his layoff aid is ralnstatai upon his rocaU to ve . and completion of sight (8) hours vork in the Bargaining fait.
Notwithstanding the above, aa employee vlth tea (ID) or tore years seniority oho is laid eft, vichla tvo (2) veska or less, Is unable to report to vork due to alekness or noe-occupetloi al accident, shall be ellfible for participation la tho Voekly Jndoaa ty and Long Torn Disability Flans affective the date of bis reca 1.
Yours truly,

8. 8. Vuthaaan
Employee Relations Manager

13$
!
1
~:si i i
|gj
:i?s K||
«cSk ssi“
« © e
i!:*
5:si 111*-:
. IS;* i”3* 1 '!$ if!
“ -i=t! i2?S
Ifl
3
i*
* x* -
si |S
U .6 §
illll
a
3b
leitf fthw*
KNItMUU
IMLfl M M IuBwpw fcMWH
LMTl IM CtttM
Cura IM UM Uqw VMt C*m
OWWWM
ninniin
CWM UfN
December 31, 1988
Nr. C. Flynn flint Qielroen Local 304
Ubitt'i Ontario >rtnri«i Xetro Toronto Irevary
Dear Hr* Flynni
Thta *111 eon lira our undaratanding reached vlth reapoet to grievance and arbitrationtlfhta for probationary esployeee. It la agreed that this latter (oraa part of the Collective Agrceaent and vlll apply to override any provlalona of the Collective Agreawnt vhich art in conflict.
Probationary eaployeea ihall be entitled!
1. To lodge a grievance only in reaped of dlacharge front eoployoent or non.payoent of vegei.
2* To have grlevancee referred to in paregraph ana
(1) arbitrated, ihogld tha Union so decide, in the uaoal (eehlcn. On a dlacharge cast, the atenderd cauia for arbitral revlev of the Coepany hta acted in an arbitrary or dlacrlainatory tenner or U bad faith. It la agreed that tha uaual "just ceuit" teat shall not apply.
9* To have • fair and Juat hearing vlth o Oepartaent Staverd in attendance* if tha employee so daalraa, prior to tha Coopeny'e tarsinatlon of hie teployoent.
Pleaia alp thie latter if you axa in agreement with its contente. Tours very truly,
Bat Probationary taoloyaea
- 137 -