COLLECTIVE
AGREEMENT
March 23,1991 to March 22,1994
j ;i
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT - INDEX -
ARTICLE 1	BARGAINING unit ANd DEFINITION I
ARTICLE 2	BARGAINING AGENCY AND	4
RECOGNITION
ARTICLE 3 SENIORITY
7
3: 1 3:2 3:3 3:4 3:5 3:6
Seniority Defined	7
Seniority List	8
Procedure Regarding Lay-offs & Recalls 8 Definition of Employees	9
Job Postings	11
Seniority Respecting Overtime	13
ARTICLE 4 HOURS OF WORK
13
4:1 Hours of Work and Overtime
4:2 Saturday Work
4:3 Shift Schedules
4:4 Sunday Work
4:5 Lunch Break
4:6 Call In
4:7 Friday Shift Schedule 4:8 Banking Overtime
13
14 14 16 16 16 17 17
ARTICLE	5	WAGES	18
	5:1	Pay Day	18
	5:2 Wage Classifications		18
	5:3	Substituting of Higher or Lower	19
		Rated Jobs	
	5:4	Shift Premiums	20
ARTICLE	6	PLANT HOLIDAYS	20
ARTICLE	7	VACATIONS	23
ARTICLE	8	VACATION BONUSES	27
ARTICLE 9
WELFARE
27
9:1 Life Insurance/Medical/Dental	27
9:2	Sick LeaveAA/eekly	Indemnity/LTD	30
9:3	Rest Periods	38
9:4	Pension Plan	38
ARTICLE	10	GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE	47
ARTICLE	11	WORK STABILIZATION	51
11:1 Guaranteed Wage Plan	51
11:2 Manpower	51
11:3 Job Training & Re-training	51
11:4 Technological Change	52
ARTICLE	12	SECURITY OF PRINCIPLES	55
12:1 Picket Line	55
12:2 Union Label	55
12:3 Union Malt	56
12:4 Contracting Out	56
ARTICLE	13	GENERAL	56
13:1 Jury Duty	56
13:2 Bereavement	57
13:3 Uniforms, Coveralls, Safety, etc.	57
13:4 Leave of Absence	58
13:5 Job Rotation	59
13:6 T-4 Slips	59
ARTICLE 14 SEPARATION PAY
59
ARTICLE 15 UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE	62
PREMIUM REBATE
ARTICLE	16	DUPLICATION OF	BENEFITS	63
((63)
ARTICLE 17 DURATION OF AGREEMENT \Vl63
17:1	Duration Defined	63
17:2	Retroactive Pay	64
THIS AGREEMENT entered into this 6th day of October, in the year of our Lord One Thousand, Nine Hundred and Ninety-One.
BETWEEN:
BREWERIES’ EMPLOYERS INDUSTRIAL RELATIONS ASSOCIATION (BEIRA) an employers’ organization appointed pursuant to Section 60 of The Labour Relations Code of Alberta as amended, as authorized bargaining agent for, amongst other employer members:
LABATT'S ALBERTA BREWERY, Division of Labatt Brewing Company Limited.
(Hereinafter referred to as the “Company” of the first part), AND
BREWERY, BEVERAGE AND SOFT DRINK WORKERS, LOCAL 250, affiliated with the RETAIL, WHOLESALE AND DEPARTMENT STORE UNION,
(Hereinafter referred to as the “Union”, of the second part),
WITNESSETH:
In consideration of the mutual terms and covenants hereafter contained, it is hereby agreed by and between the parties hereto as follows:
ARTICLE 1 - BARGAINING UNIT AND DEFINITION
Section 1:1
The Company hereby recognizes the Union as the sole and exclusive bargaining agent for all employees in the certified bargaining unit.
-1-
Section 1:2
The bargaining unit shall consist of all employees of Labatt's Alberta Brewery in Edmonton, Alberta, excluding chemists, field representatives, office staff, foremen and those above the rank of foremen.
Section 1:3
Wherever herein the expression “employees, journeymen, help or men” is used, it shall mean the personnel in all departments of the Company other than chemists, field representatives, office staff, foremen and those above the rank of foremen.
Section 1:4
No employee of the Company other than a member of the Union shall do any of the work performed by employees in the bargaining unit except in cases of extreme emergencies and for training of trainers in the bargaining unit. “Extreme emergencies” shall not be-abused by such people and at no time or point shall such emergencies be allowed to. become a regular or frequent development.
Section 1:5
For the purpose of clarification and without affecting the meaning and intent of the foregoing Section 1:2, bargaining unit work shall be expanded to include the following duties:
1:5:1 - Snow Removal
This work shall consist of the removal of snow from office entrance stairs, sidewalks around the plant, and the sidewalks that are immediately in front of the Retail Store.
-2-
1:5:2 - Social Room
Bartending, serving of product, and cleaning of social room, as required. When a bartender is required by the company, the company shall advise of each function as far in advance as is practical. The company shall offer the work to senior permanent on duty bottleshop employees, provided they can be replaced from the same shift and such replacement does not cause other replacements from outside of the bottleshop department.
1:5:3 -Painting
Painting the plant and retail store.
1:5:4 - Gardening
One gardener shall be assigned to work on Company grounds surrounding the plant.
1:5:5 - Hauling of Bales 1:5:6 - Central Store 1:5:7 - Retail Store
All work associated with the buying and transportation of empty bottles, delivering to the Retail Store product to be sold and the required cleaning of the Retail Store. This shall not be interpreted as a change in the present practice.
Section 1:6
The Company shall designate and make known to the Union the Supervisory Employees.
-3-
ARTICLE 2 - BARGAINING AGENCY AND RECOGNITION
Section 2:1
Only members in good standing of Local Union 250 shall be employed in all departments, save those employees coming within the exceptions set forth in Section 1:2, hereof.
Section 2:2
The Company shall be permitted to employ other men temporarily, on permit card, as long as such employment does not cause a layoff at anytime to the regular Union members.
All such extra help must obtain a permit card from the Union before starting work.
The Company may hire temporary employees during the period from May 1st to Labour Day. Before hiring a temporary employee during the period from the day after Labour Day to April 30th, the Company and the Union will mutually agree to the proposed hiring.
A temporary employee shall not do work in the plant until he has first gone through an orientation program agreed to by the Company and the Union. Subject to the following conditions, days worked by a temporary employee replacing a man on leave of absence will not be counted towards the accumulation of the employee’s 130 days:
i)	The temporary employee, who will forfeit credit for days worked, will be the one with the lowest number of days accumulated.
•4-
ii)	In the case of two or more temporary employees with the same number of days worked, the lowest one on the most recent posting of the temporary list, shall forfeit credit for the days worked.
iii)	All temporary employees will be called for
work in the order prescribed by the most recent posting of the temporary list.
iv)	A list of days forfeited and days accumulated will be made available on request to any member of the local Executive or Hiring Committee.
Section 2:3
It is understood that in the event the Company needs a new employee and there is no employee on layoff, the Company shall contact the Secretary of the Local Union 250 to determine if the Union can supply a competent candidate for the job vacancy. Preference will be given to such candidate if available and suitable.
Section 2:4
No employee shall be discriminated against for any reason, or discharged for his activity as a Union member, or for serving on a committee or doing any other work in the interest of the Union. Members shall be granted the necessary time for such work without pay provided notice is given the Company and the time required for such work is not unreasonable. Employees who are committee members or officers of the Union shall receive their regular wages from the Company when away from their job as above granted on Union business pertaining to the Union and the Company.
■5
Section 2:4:1
When practical, the Union president shall be assigned day shift. He will be given reasonable time off with pay to attend to Union business, and one day off, preferably Friday will be given to the President or a Union officer for plant tours. However, when the Union President's job responsibilities are not compatible with this arrangement, a similar appropriate arrangement will be worked out between the Company and the Union President.
Section 2:5 2:5:1 - Check-Off
Having received signed authorization cards from employees, each month the Company shall deduct from the pay of each employee covered by this Agreement, a sum in the amount of the current monthly Union dues and assessments. A written list of employees' names and the relative amounts so deducted, shall be submitted by the Company to the Union Financial Secretary not later than the 12th of each month. The Union will notify the Company of the amount of the established dues and assessments where applicable to be deducted and will further notify the Company thirty (30) days in advance of any change with respect to the amount of dues and assessments where applicable to be deducted.
2:5:2
Notwithstanding any provisions contained in SubSection (2:5:1), there shall be no financial or other responsibility on the part of the Company for dues of an employee unless there are sufficient unpaid wages of that employee in the Company's hands.
6
2:5:3
The Company will indicate on statements of income (T-4 slips) required for the purpose of taxation by the Federal Government, Union dues and dues increases deducted from an employee's wage.
ARTICLE 3 SENIORITY Section 3:1 - Seniority Defined 3:1:1
Seniority is defined as the length of an employee's service with the Company, calculated as the elapsed time from the date he was first employed, unless his seniority was broken, in which event such calculation shall be from the date that he returned to work following the last break in his seniority.
3:1:2
Seniority shall be considered broken by virtue of the following reasons only:
3:1:2:1
If an employee terminates his employment voluntarily. 3:1:2:2
If an employee is absent for five (5) consecutive working days without notifying the Company.
3:1:2:3
If an employee is laid off and fails to report for work within seven (7) days after written notice by double registered mail to report to work has been mailed to his last address registered with the Company; provided that when an employee is recalled to work and does not report within forty-eight (48) hours, the Company may recall the next employee in line, but he is subject to being displaced if the first employee does
-7-
report within seven (7) working days.
3:1:2:4
If an employee has been discharged for just cause not reversed by grievance procedure.
3:1:2:5
If an employee has been laid off for a period of twenty-four (24) months.
3:1:3
Seniority will not be broken when:
3:1:3:1
An employee is on authorized leave of absence.
3:1:3:2
An employee is laid off for less than a twenty-four (24) month period.
3:1:3:3
An employee is absent due to certified sickness or injury.
Section 3:2 3:2:1 - Seniority List
The Company shall maintain and post a seniority list on the plant bulletin board within thirty (30) days from the date of this Agreement being signed and shall post a new seniority list within two (2) weeks of a new employee being eligible for placement on the list. Such list shall contain only the names and the seniority of those employees in the established bargaining unit.
Section 3:3 Procedure Regarding Lay-Offs and Recalls
Plant seniority shall apply in the event of it becoming necessary to reduce staff. All layoffs shall be made impartially and in strict order of seniority, provided the
-8-
senior employee is willing and able to perform the work required of him. The last man hired shall be the first to be laid off, and so on in that order.
3:3:1
Should it become necessary to reduce the working force, all permit card help must be laid off before any Union members are laid off.
3:3:2
If further reduction of staff is necessary, then the Union members shall be laid off in the order of their seniority as defined in Sections 3:1:1, 3:1 :2, and 3: 1:3 of Article 3.
3:3:3
When staffs are augmented after lay-off, members shall be recalled to work on the basis of seniority, provided they are willing and able to do the work available, the member with the greatest plant seniority being recalled first, and so on in that order.
Section 3:4 Definition of Employees, 3:4:1
A REGULAR employee is defined as any full time employee covered by this Agreement who has been placed on the seniority list.
-9-
3:4:2
A TEMPORARY employee is one who is hired for certain periods in order to provide the necessary manpower required to fill temporary production needs.
All temporary employees shall be on a trial basis for the first 132 days worked and shall be paid the temporary employee rate for all time worked. If he performs his job satisfactorily, he will become a regular employee after completing 132 working days in a twelve (12) month period, and will at that time be placed on the seniority list. At that time his seniority date shall be computed as the date six (6) calendar months prior to the date on which 132 working days were completed in the immediately preceding twelve (12) months. Thereafter, the production rate or the rate for the job classification, whichever is applicable, shall apply. When permanent manpower requirements are increased, an employee must have worked for sixty (60) days before being placed on the seniority list. At that time, his seniority date shall be computed as the date six (6) calendar months prior to the date on which 132 working days will be completed using normal work weeks. (Adjusted to take into account extra shifts worked during that period).
3:4:3
Ely mutual consent of the Company and Union, a temporary employee may have his status extended beyond 132 working days. It is recognized that a temporary employee will be terminated once the aforementioned needs have been met.
-10-
Section 3:5 Job Postings
3:5:1
Whenever a job vacancy is created in any of the departments of the company's operations, the company shall post a standard notice on the bulletin board in each department for at least five (5) working days, soliciting the names of employees who wish to apply to fill such a position.
3:5:2
Any employee covered by this Agreement may apply in this manner and the vacancy or new position, etc., shall be filled by the applicant having the most seniority, provided he shows willingness and initiative. Such senior applicant shall be given a thirty (30) day trial period in order to qualify for the job. After thirty (30) days’ service on the job, the employee shall receive the top rate of pay for such job.
3:5:3
Should a more senior employee than the selected applicant be absent from work during the total period of the job posting he shall be permitted to apply for such job within a period of two (2) calendar weeks after the expiry date of the job posting.
3:5:4
If, after working on the new job, the applicant at any time finds the job has been discontinued, he shall be transferred back to the job position which he last held
-11-
and he shall retain all his rights as if he had never left such last job position.
If an employee requests to drop a job posting for other reasons he shall be transferred to an unposted position in the packaging department and will be ineligible to post for another position for a six (6) month period.
3:5:5
The standard application form to be used for posting on the bulletin boards shall specify the type of job vacancy, outline of work required, and wherever possible the approximate conditions of temperature and humidity to which the employee will be exposed, and space for the applicant's signatures.
3:5:6
In the event differences arise which cannot normally be settled, as to which of the applicants should be given a trial to fill the posted vacancy, the matter shall, within three (3) days after the said differences arise, be dealt with under Grievance Procedure, Article 10 of this Agreement, starting with Section 10:4:2 thereof.
3:5:7
In all cases where it is necessary to transfer to another job in the Company's operation, employees who have acquired some physical deficiency, and who do not qualify under Section 3:5:4 hereof, the Company and the Union will mutually decide upon which job position such employee will be transferred to.
12-
Section 3:6 Seniority Respecting Overtime
Overtime work shall be allocated equitably among those employees able to do the work required.
Overtime work shall not be compulsory provided that any employee not desiring overtime work can be replaced with another employee of equal ability.
ARTICLE 4 - HOURS OF WORK Section 4:1 - Hours of Work and Overtime 4:1:1
For all employees eight (8) hours shall constitute a day’s work and five (5) days, namely forty (40) hours. Monday through Friday, inclusive, shall constitute a week's work. An employee who is ordered to work for less than eight (8) hours per day or forty (40) hours per week shall be considered as temporarily laid off.
Work performed in excess of eight (8) hours during any day, Monday through Friday inclusive, shall be overtime and shall be paid for at the rate of double time.
4:1:3
Except in cases of emergency, an employee shall not be required to work more than twelve (12) hours in a day.
-13-
Section 4:2 - Saturday Work
4:2:1
For all work performed up to eight (8) hours on Saturdays, the premium rate of double time shall be paid to all employees. All work performed over eight (8) hours on Saturdays shall be considered overtime and shall be paid for at the rate of time and one-half the prevailing Saturday rate for the employee concerned.
4:2:2
The company shall, wherever possible, give employees at least two (2) working days notice of Saturday work involving production.
4:2:3
In the event it is necessary to work overtime, the Company shall, wherever possible, provide four (4) hours' notice of such overtime.
4:2:4
Wherever possible, no employees shall be requested or allowed to work overtime while regular employees are receiving less than forty (40) hours’ pay per week. Mechanical repairs being the only exception.
Section 4:3 - Shift Schedules
4:3:1
The regular day shift shall commence between the -14-
hours of 6:00 a.m. and 9:00 a.m. Any shift commencing after 9:00 a.m. and before 5:00 p.m. shall be considered the p.m. shift. Any shift commencing at or after 5:00 p.m. and before 6:00 a.m., shall be considered the night shift.
4:3:2
The schedule of hours to be worked each day shall be posted by 1:00 p.m. Thursday, and finalized by 10:00 a.m. Friday of the week preceding the next work week and scheduling shall provide for at least twelve (12) hours elapsed time between the close of each man's shift and the start of his next shift. If the said elapsed time is not granted the employee shall be paid overtime rates for those hours worked within the twelve (1 2) hour period.
Midnight shift employees will be informed by their supervisor of their scheduled hours of work for the following week prior to the completion of their Thursday Midnight shift. The locked bulletin board in the lunchroom will be used for purposes of crew scheduling and for such other purposes as may be agreed upon by the Company and the Union.
4:3:3
For all work performed by an employee on any day prior to his job's regular starting time and/or after his job's regular quitting time, such employee shall receive pay at the rate of double time the current wage rate. An employee is to be notified of a change of shift or starting time, before punching out.
15
There shall be a minimal amount of progression of starting times for different employees during the day, p.m. and night shifts.
4:3:4
Section 4:4 - Sunday Work
For all work performed up to eight (8) hours on Sundays, the premium rate of double time and one-half shall be paid to all employees. All work performed over eight (8) hours on Sundays shall be considered overtime and shall be paid for at the rate of time and one-half the prevailing Sunday rate for the employee concerned.
Section 4:5 - Lunch Break
All employees shall be allowed one-half (1/2) hour off for the midday meal, which half hour shall be included in the working hours above stipulated.
Section 4:6 - Call-In
4:6:1
A regular employee must be notified four (4) hours before quitting time if he is not to report for work the next day. If he is not notified, work shall be provided the following day.
4:6:2
Any employee called out to work for less than a half (1/2) day shall receive not less than one-half day’s wages.
16
4:6:3
When an employee is called in for breakdown or emergency work after punching out following his scheduled shift and before returning to work for his next regular shift, he shall be paid for at least four (4) hours at the appropriate overtime rate in addition to payment at straight time for any hours worked by him during his regular shift hours. However, if so called into work within one (1) hour before his regular starting time, he shall be paid only for such extra time worked at the appropriate overtime rate and the normal shift for that day shall be eight (8) hours from the time the employee commenced work.
Section 4:7 - Friday Shift Schedule
It will be the practice of the Company to arrange the Friday shift schedule in the Bottleshop so that the afternoon shift will have completed their work by 9:00 p.m.
This will be accomplished by telescoping the shifts in a manner that was developed in the early months of 1975.
It is unlikely that early Friday starts will apply in the May 1 st to August 31 st period.
During the remainder of the year, the company will have the right to schedule to a maximum of (ten) 10 weeks of regular production where the early Friday start will not apply.
Section 4:8 - Banking Overtime
Banking of overtime hours and premium hours will be granted to all employees as per Letter of Understanding No. 1.
17
ARTICLE 5-WAGES
Section 5:1 - Pay Day
Wages shall be paid on every second Thursday, during working hours, to employees on the day shift and the night shift. Employees on the "p.m." shift shall be paid during their Wednesday shift. In the event the said Wednesday or Thursday is a holiday, wages shall be paid on the preceding work day. If Friday of pay week is a holiday, payday will be the preceding Wednesday.
*Section 5:2 - Wage Classifications
5:2:1 wags Classification
‘EFFECTIVE FIRST OF MONTH FOLLOWING	EFFECTIVE
CLASSIFICATION	RATIFICATION	MAR. 23/92 MAR. 23/93
Tamp Emp. (permit cards)	9.87
Rod. Emp.	20.05
Brewing Group 1 Brewing Group 2 (incl.	20.24
Racking jobs)	20.17
Bottle Buyer	20.05
Machine Oper. (incl. pasteurizer)	20.10
Maintenance Mechanic	23.03
Electrician	23.03
Bottleshop technician	20.10
Oiler	20.30
Gardener	20.10
Stores Attendant	20.30
Painter (part-time)	20.30
Bottleshop Util. Operator	20.25
Handyman (part-time)	20.30
Third Class Steam Eng.	23.13
MILLWRIGHT APPRENTICE:	
On completion of 30 day trial	20.65
On completion of first period	20.85
On completion of second period	21.05
On completion of third period On completion of fourth period reclassification to	21.25
Maintenance Mechanic ‘See paragraph of Article 16:2	23.03
10.36	10.93
21.00	22.10
21.19	22.29
21.12	22.22
21.00	22.10
21.05	22.15
24.14	25.43
24.14	25.43
21.05	22.15
21.25	22.35
21.05	22.15
21.25	22.35
21.25	22.35
21.20	22.30
21.25	22.35
24.24	25.53
21,60	22.70
21.80	22.90
22.00	23.10
22.20	23,30
24.14	25.43
18
5:2:1:2 Cost of Living Clause
A Cost of Living Allowance in a lump sum payment will be paid to Regular Employees for all hours worked, including vacations and statutory holidays, in the period from April 1, 1993 to March 31, 1994, the first pay period following publication of the March 1994 Consumer Price Index, on the basis of 1C per hour for each full .3 change in the Consumer Price Index, (1971 = 100) in the period from April 1, 1993 to March 31, 1994 calculated by subtracting the Consumer Price Index for the month of March, 1993, after adding thereto 7% of the March, 1993 Consumer Price Index, from the Consumer Price Index for the month of March, 1994.
5:2:2 Lead Hand
Thirty ($.30) cents in addition to the employee’s current wage rate.
Section 5:3 - Substituting of Higher or Lower Rated Jobs
Any employee substituting on a higher rated job shall receive the higher rate of pay while so doing, but any employee substituting on a lower rated job shall not have his regular rate of pay reduced, unless such employee is transferred on a lower rated job as a result of the operation of the seniority provisions contained in this Agreement.
19
Section 5:4 - Shift Premiums 5:4:1
For all work performed on the p.m. shift, a premium of fifty-five ($.55) cents per hour shall be paid on all hours worked. Effective the first day of the month following ratification for all work performed on the p.m. shift, a premium of sixty ($0.60) cents per hour shall be paid on all hours worked.
5:4:2
For all work performed on the midnight shift, a premium of eighty-five ($.85) cents per hour shall be paid for all hours worked. Effective the first day of the month following ratification for all work performed on the midnight shift, a premium of ninety ($0.90) cents per hour shall be paid for all hours worked. Effective March 23, 1992 the midnight shift premium payable shall be ninety-five ($.95) cents per hour. Effective March 23, 1993 the midnight shift premium payable shall be one dollar ($1 .00) per hour.
5:4:3
When new types of production equipment or new jobs related thereto, or new classifications of work for which rates of pay are not covered by this Agreement are put into use or effect, rates governing such operations shall be established by agreement between both parties. If the parties cannot agree to such rates the matter shall be referred to arbitration,
ARTICLE 6 PLANT HOLIDAYS
Section 6:1
The following shall be considered as Plant Holidays on which employees shall not be required to work:
-20-
New Year's Day Good Friday Victoria Day Canada Day Labour Day Thanksgiving Day Remembrance Day Christmas Day Boxing Day Civic Holiday Klondike Holiday
and all other statutory holidays as may be declared by the Provincial or Federal Governments. Employees shall be paid for the above-mentioned plant holidays at the regular rates. Employees shall be entitled to one (1) day off during "Klondike Days” at a time selected by the employee provided this does not interfere with the Company's requirements concerning the efficient operation of the plant.
Seniority will govern in the selection of days off in the event of disputes.
Section 6:2
All employees will receive eight (8) hours straight time pay for each of such holidays without being required to work on such days provided that:
6:2:1
The employee has worked at least five (5) days during the twenty (20) working days immediately preceding the day on which such holiday is observed, and
6:2:2
The employee has not been absent without -21-
permission on the last work day scheduled for him immediately prior to the day on which the said holiday is observed or the first work day scheduled for him immediately after the day on which the said holiday is observed.
Where an employee is unable to seek the required permission due to extenuating circumstances beyond his control, then that required permission may be sought after his return to work.
Section 6:3
The employee shall be entitled to receive plant holiday benefits when absent in cases involving sickness and accident up to one hundred and four (104) weeks’ duration from commencement of disability. Employees who are qualified for weekly indemnity on a day on which a statutory holiday falls, or who qualify for weekly indemnity subsequent to the statutory holiday, will be entitled to a day off with pay in lieu of such day sometime after his return to work, at a mutually convenient time.
Section 6:4
For all work performed on the aforementioned plant holidays, double time and one-half shall be paid to all employees in addition to holiday pay.
Section 6:5
If a plant holiday falls during an employee's vacation period, an extra day's holiday with pay will be granted on the work day immediately prior to or following his vacation, or at a time mutually agreed to between the employee and his supervisor.
-22-
Section 6:6
If a plant holiday falls on a Saturday or Sunday, the work day or days prior to or immediately following these days shall be observed as the plant holiday.
ARTICLE 7 - VACATIONS
Section 7:1
All employees on the Seniority List for six (6) months shall be granted one (1) week vacation, plus one (1) day for each additional month, with full pay, up to a maximum of ten (10) vacation days.
Section 7:2
All employees on the Seniority List for one (1) year or longer shall be granted two (2) weeks’ vacation per year with full pay.
Section 7:3
All employees shall, after completing three (3) years on the Seniority List, receive three (3) weeks’ vacation per year with full pay.
Section 7:4
All employees shall, after completing eight (8) years on the Seniority List, receive four (4) weeks’ vacation per year with full pay.
23
Section 7:5
All employees shall, after completing fifteen (15) years on the Seniority list, receive five (5) weeks’ vacation per year with full pay.
Section 7:6
All employees shall, after completing twenty (20) years on the Seniority list, receive six (6) weeks’ vacation per year with full pay.
Section 7:7
All employees shall, after completing twenty five (25) years on the Seniority List, receive seven (7) weeks’ vacation per year with full pay.
Section 7:8
To compute the three (3), eight (8), fifteen (15), twenty (20) and twenty-five (25) years on the Seniority List mentioned respectively in paragraphs 7:3, 7:4, 7:5, 7:6 and 7:7 above, for the purpose of the qualifying date for the third, fourth, fifth, sixth, and seventh weeks of vacation, such seniority shall be considered to have commenced on January 1st of the year in which the employee commenced employment.
Section 7:9
In the case of employees receiving three (3), four (4), five (5), six (6), or seven (7) weeks’ vacation, one
-24-
(1) week, two (2) weeks or three (3) weeks, whichever is applicable, must be taken within the periods January 1 5th to April 30th or September 1st to November 15th, the employee to state in January the date he prefers to take this week/s.
Exceptions to the foregoing will be granted upon request to the employee’s immediate supervisor, provided that the request is consistent with Section 7:11.
Section 7:10
Employees are not required to take their vacations during the calendar year in which they become eligible for such; but must have all of their vacation entitlement scheduled by November 30 of each year and use their entitlement by March 31st of the following year.
Section 7:11
Provided this does not interfere with the operation of the plant, vacations shall be taken at the time or times most desired by the employee concerned. Seniority shall govern the selection of vacation dates in cases of disputes.
Section 7:12
The vacation list will be posted in each year from January 1 to March 15 to cover the time period April 1 to March 31. Employees shall indicate thereon the choice of dates for their vacation. This list will be taken down March 16 and finalized by March 31. Once all vacations are finalized all further vacations will be on a first
■25
come first served basis. Changes can be made when mutually agreed to between the Company and the employee concerned.
Section 7:13
In the event that an employee becomes ill or is injured after having commenced his vacation he shall at that point have the remainder of his vacation cancelled for that period and rescheduled at a later date. In order to implement this clause, the employee must first contact his supervisor immediately he becomes ill or is injured, and he must be able to meet the Weekly Indemnity requirements.
Section 7:14
No paid vacations will be established for an employee who is absent for more than one hundred and four (104) weeks.
Section 7:15
Notwithstanding any other Article of this Agreement, an employee's annual vacation must be taken as prescribed by the Collective Agreement. Employees who are in receipt of disability compensation allowances, such as Workers Compensation, weekly indemnity, Company-paid sick leave, etc., shall within the first 104 weeks of such absence have added to such allowance, by the Company, vacation wages so that the employee receives, during his vacation period, the full amount he would have received had he not been disabled, sick, etc., but in no event shall he be entitled to receive more in combined compensation and vacation wages than he would have
-26-
received were he not in receipt of such disability compensation allowances.
ARTICLE 8 - VACATION BONUSES
Section 8:1
Employees who have qualified for three (3) or more weeks annual vacation shall be eligible to receive a vacation bonus in cash and equal to twenty (20) per cent of such employee's normal vacation entitlement.
Section 8:2
Should the Union decide to use vacation bonus credits to stabilize the employment of regular employees, the outstanding vacation bonus entitlement will not be paid off prior to December 1 5. If, however, the Union decides to use the vacation bonus entitlement as a straight cash supplement to vacations, the bonus will be paid in cash at the time of the employee's vacation.
ARTICLE 9 - WELFARE
Section 9:1 - Life Insurance/Medical/Dental
The Company shall furnish each employee who has become a regular employee, and who has attained seniority, a welfare plan whereby each employee shall receive the following coverages:
-27-
9:1:1
life Insurance for employees Effective on the 1st of the month following ratification, the amount of Life Insurance shall be increased to $36,000.00 insurance coverage for employees actively at work on that day. Effective March 23, 1992, the amount of insurance shall be increased to $37,000.00 for employees	actively at work on	that
day. Effective March 23, 1993 the amount of insurance shall be increased to $39,000.00 for employees	actively at work on	that
day. Employees not actively at work on the above-mentioned days shall only be provided increased insurance coverage upon their return to active employment.
9:1:2
Life Insurance for future pensioners $4,000.00
9:1:3
Accidental death and dismemberment Effective on the 1st of the month following ratification, the amount of Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance shall be increased to $36,000.00 insurance coverage for employees actively at work on that day. Effective March 23, 1992 the amount of insurance shall be increased to $37,000.00for employees actively at work on that day. Effective March 23, 1993, the amount of Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance shall be increased to
28
$39,000.00 for employees actively at work on that day. Employees not actively at work on the above-named days shall only be provided increased insurance coverage upon their return to active employment.
9:1:4
Medical care and surgical coverage for employees (Alberta Health Care Insurance)
9:1:5
Semi-private hospital coverage as provided by the Alberta Blue Cross Plan. In addition full cost of the existing premium for Blue Cross Combined Hospital and “Other Services” benefits.
9:1:6
Dental Care Plan - Effective the first day of the month following ratification increase the maximum per year for basic services to $700. The increase shall only apply to eligible expenses incurred after the above date. Reimbursement - 100% of the cost of eligible basic services, as now defined, up to the yearly maximum.
Effective the first day of the month following ratification increase the combined lifetime maximum for Restorative and Orthodontic Services to $4,000. The increase shall only
-29-
apply to eligible expenses incurred after the date of ratification. Effective March 23, 1992, there will be a provision for an annual re-instatement of up to $500 at the beginning of each calendar year, if required, to restore such lifetime maximum to the level of $4,000.
Reimbursement - 75% of the cost of eligible restorative services as now defined and 50% for orthodontics as now defined up to the lifetime maximum stated above.
9:1:7
Sick Leave, Insured Weekly Indemnity, and Insured Long Term Disability benefits as described in Section 9:2.
Section 9:2 - Sick Leave/Weekly Indemnity/LTD 9:2:1
Sick Leave:
(A)	Provided that when requested, he furnishes a
doctor's certificate proving disability to the satisfaction of the Company, each employee who attained regular employee status prior to May 7, 1985 shall be entitled to sick leave on the following basis:
(1)	on January 01, 1985, these employees
will be entitled to twenty-four (24) days’ sick leave for 1985,
(2)	these employees shall be allowed to
accumulate twelve (12) unused days of 1985 sick leave benefits and effective January 1, 1986 shall be entitled to
twelve (12) days' sick leave to an accumulated maximum of twenty-four (24) days’ sick leave for the period January 1 to December 31, 1986,
(3)	effective January 1,	1987 these
employees shall be allowed to accumulate up to six (6) unused days’ of sick leave benefits and shall be entitled to twelve (12) days’ sick leave per year to an accumulated maximum of eighteen (18) days' sick leave,
(4)	effective January 01, 1987 these
employees who retire from the Company under the terms of the company pension plan shall be allowed to cash out any unused portion of sick leave benefits to a maximum of eighteen (18) days as provided in (3) above.
(B)	Provided that when requested, they furnish a
doctor's certificate proving disability to the satisfaction of the Company, employees who achieve regular employee status after May 07, 1985, shall be entitled, upon the attainment of regular employee status, to one (1) day of sick leave for each full month remaining in the benefit year, January 1 to December 31, and thereafter shall be entitled, effective January 1, to twelve (12) days’ sick leave per year and shall not accumulate sick days from one benefit year to the next.
This sick leave shall be applied to provide full pay by supplementing weekly indemnity or Workers' Compensation payments for working days lost during:
(a)	the three (3) waiting days prior to start of
weekly indemnity payments resulting from
-31-
illness;
(b)	the period of weekly indemnity payments
resulting from sickness or non-occupational accidents or Workers'Compensation accidents, in which cases sick pay will be used to supplement weekly indemnity,	Workers'
Compensation up to full pay;
(c)	days of absence, resulting from nonoccupational disabilities after one hundred and four (104) weekly indemnity payments have been made.
9:2:1:2
An employee’s maximum entitlement of sick days shall be reduced by one (1) hour for each hour or part hour of sick leave when supplementing weekly indemnity payments or Worker's Compensation payments.
9:2:1:3
Full pay for an employee shall mean the equivalent of his standard daily hours times his job rate of pay, and the payment of sick pay shall not result under any circumstances in an employee receiving more than full pay on any lost working day.
9:2:1:4
The Company at its discretion may appoint the Doctor to examine the employee. Abuse, misrepresentation or any misuse of the above clause by the employee shall be sufficient
-32-
grounds for his dismissal.
9:2:2
Insured Weekly Indemnity (Calculated on a five
(5)	day work week).
9:2:2:1
Where an employee is disabled due to a sickness or a non-occupational accident, a weekly benefit amounting to 75% of wages (applicable classified hourly rate X 40) in effect during the 26 week period will be paid to an employee who is off work and under the care of a doctor.
9:2:2:2
Payments will commence on the first day of the disability, if due to an accident, and on the fourth day, if due to a sickness, and will continue to a maximum of 26 weeks for any one (1) period of disability.
9:2:3 Insured Long Term Disability 9:2:3:1
Should the disability, described above, continue beyond the end of the 26th week, the insured Long Term Disability Plan will commence at the 27th week and will continue until recovery, or age 65, whichever occurs first.
33
9:2:3:2
Where an employee has received Workers’ Compensation payments for a 26 week period, the Long Term Disability Plan will commence at the 27th week and will continue until recovery or age 65, whichever occurs first.
9:2:3:3
The L.T.D. Plan will provide the payment of 60% of wages (applicable classified hourly rate X 40) in effect during the first 78 weeks of the Long Term Plan.
9:2:3:4
Should the disability continue past the 104 week period (26 weeks + 78 weeks) the future weekly benefit will be calculated at 60% of wages (hourly rate X 40) in effect at the 104th week of disability.
9:2:3:4:1
If an employee is on L.T.D. for a period in excess of 104 weeks, but is capable of performing some position in the bargaining unit, the Company will agree to assign him to that position as long as seniority provisions can accommodate the assignment.
9:2:3:5 Rehabilitation Benefits
If an employee's Monthly Indemnity ceases because he is no longer disabled to the extent required by this provision and he immediately enters a rehabilitation program, then during such
-34-
program the insurance company will pay to him a monthly rehabilitation income as set out in the following paragraph for a period of not more than 12 months.
9:2:3:6
The amount of monthly rehabilitation income will be the amount of monthly indemnity which the employee has been receiving prior to entering his rehabilitation program reduced by 70% of any compensation received by him for work performed during the program, except that if at any time the employee's total monthly income arising from the sum of his monthly rehabilitation income, his compensation during rehabilitation and any income received from sources referred to in Item 1 to 5 of the Schedule below exceeds 75% of his earnings from the employer as set out in 9:2:3:3 or 9:2:3:4 of L.T.D. Plan during his disability period, then in such event the employee's monthly rehabilitation income will be reduced by the extent of such excess.
9:2:3:7 Income Schedule 9:2:3:7:1
1.	Salary or wage
2.	Indemnity from other Group Insurance Plan
3.	Company Retirement Plan
4.	Government Benefits
5.	Workers’ Compensation
-35-
9:2:3:7:2
For the purpose of this provision a “rehabilitation program” means a program of vocational training or a period of work for the purpose of rehabilitation, either of which is approved in writing by the insurance company.
9:2:3:8
Coverage under Insured Weekly Indemnity and Long Term Disability Plans. Coverage will be continued:
9:2:3:8:1
For the first one hundred and four (104) weeks of a disability provided the employee is unable to perform his own job;
9:2:3:8:2
In excess of 104 weeks, provided the employee is unable to perform any job for any employer for which he is reasonably qualified by training, education, or experience, or experience to perform, as determined by the insurance carrier.
The weekly indemnity plan and long term disability plan will be of a standard nature underwritten by an insurance carrier and will include an offset clause for integrating statutory payments such as Canada Pension Plan, Unemployment Insurance, and, in the case of long term disability, will also include an offset clause for integrating Workers' Compensation.
■36-
9:2:3:9 Employees Absent on Effective Date
Employees who are absent from work on Weekly Indemnity on the effective date of the new sickness and accident plans, and
9:2:3:9:1
Recover and return to work for at least a 2 week period prior to the expiry of their 104 weeks, shall then be covered by the revised Weekly Indemnity and insured Long Term Disability Plan, or
9:2:3:9:2
Recover and return to work for at least one (1) day prior to the expiry of their 104 weeks in the case where the latest disability absence cannot be connected with the causes of any of the prior disability absences, shall be covered by the revised Weekly Indemnity and Long Term Disability Plan.
9:2:3:10 Pension Accrual
The Company will provide the necessary monies to build up the pension of any employee receiving benefits from the insured Long Term Disability Plan at the rate of pension accrual in effect at the commencement of the disability.
9:2:4
Employees absent due to sickness or nonoccupational or occupational accident, shall be paid every plant payday. Employees will be required to submit completed weekly indemnity and Workers' Compensation claim. forms as requested by the company and made payable to the company to
-37-
receive pay in subsequent pay periods. Employees will pay for charges for the completion of the first medical form required per occurrence and the company shall pay for medical forms thereafter required.
Section 9:3 - Rest Periods
All present amenities both now and in the past enjoyed by the employees, shall be kept in force.
The word “amenities” shall cover among other things rest periods, wherein every employee shall receive two (2) fifteen (1 5) minute rest periods in each full shift. Wherever possible the first rest period shall be taken midway through the first half shift, and the second such period midway through the second half shift.
All employees shall receive a fifteen (15) minute rest period before commencing one (1) hour of overtime work and shall receive an additional fifteen (15) minute rest period after each additional two (2) hour period.
In the event that ten (10) or more hours of work are required on any given day, a hot meal shall be provided by the Company before commencing overtime.
Section 9:4 - Pension Plan
The Current Pension Plan is amended to reflect the following changes. It is further agreed and understood that all other provisions of the pension plan shall remain unchanged and further, that no other amendments shall be made to the plan to be effective prior to March 23, 1994.
For members who retire on or after March 23, 1991 the following shall apply:
38
(A)	Mini mum Pension at Normal Retirement:
A member retiring at age 65 with at least 30 years of credited service is entitled to a lifetime supplement being the amount required to be added to the member’s accrued pension and the full unreduced Canada Pension Plan Retirement benefits determined at the date of his retirement to produce a minimum monthly pension of $1,685.00.
If a member retires at age 65 with less than 30 years of credited service, the lifetime supplement shall be the amount by which the minimum pension at normal retirement exceeds the full unreduced Canada Pension Plan Retirement benefits, prorated by the ratio of the number of years of credited service to 30 years and reduced by the member's accrued pension.
(B)	Calculation of Pension Benefit Accrual:
For service after March 23, 1991: a monthly pension equal to $30.00 multiplied by the number of years of credited service;
For service to March 22, 1991, the pension benefits accrued to each member remain unchanged.
(C)	Special Early Retirement:
A member retiring after having attained age 60 with at least 30 years of credited service is entitled to an immediate accrued pension equal to the amount of accrued pension to his credit for service to date of early retirement, without reduction for the earlier date of retirement.
39
This pension will be supplemented by an amount necessary to provide a monthly pension of $1,537.00 from Company Plans payable until the member would have first become eligible to receive unreduced Canada Pension Plan Retirement benefits. Thereafter the supplement shall be recalculated as the amount required to be added to the member's accrued pension and the full unreduced Canada Pension Plan Retirement benefits determined at the date of his retirement to produce a monthly pension of $1,685.00; which supplement shall become his lifetime supplement.
In addition to the recalculated lifetime supplement, a member who retires before March 22, 1992 will be paid a further supplement, if necessary, to produce a total pension from Company Plans equal to the pension that would be payable if the member were then retiring at normal retirement, based on the normal retirement minimum pension and full unreduced Canada Pension Plan Retirement benefits both determined as of that date, his accrued pension including any escalation thereof and his related credited service. This further supplement shall then be added to and form part of the member's lifetime supplement.
II	For members who retire on or after March 23, 1992
the following shall apply:
(A)	Minimum Pension at Normal Retirement:
A member retiring at age 65 with at least 30 years of credited service is entitled to a lifetime supplement being the amount required to be added to the member’s accrued pension and the full unreduced Canada Pension Plan Retirement benefits determined at the date of his retirement
-40-
to produce a minimum monthly pension of $1,740.00.
If a member retires at age 65 with less than 30 years of credited service, the lifetime supplement shall be the amount by which the minimum pension at normal retirement exceeds the full unreduced Canada Pension Plan Retirement benefits, prorated by the ratio of the number of years of credited service to 30 years and reduced by the member's accrued pension.
(B)	Calculation of Pension Benefit Accrual:
For service after March 23, 1992: a monthly pension equal to $31.00 multiplied by the number of years of credited service;
(C)	Special Early Retirement:
A member retiring after having attained age 60 with at least 30 years of credited service is entitled to an immediate accrued pension equal to the amount of accrued pension to his credit for service to date of early retirement, without reduction for the earlier date of retirement.
This pension will be supplemented by an amount necessary to provide a monthly pension of $1,562.00, from Company Plans payable until the member would have first become eligible to receive unreduced Canada Pension Plan Retirement benefits. Thereafter the supplement shall be recalculated as the amount required to be added to the member’s accrued pension and the full unreduced Canada Pension Plan Retirement benefits determined at the date of his retirement to produce a monthly pension of $1,740.00; which supplement shall become his lifetime supplement.
-41-
In addition to the recalculated lifetime supplement, a member who retires before March 22, 1993 will be paid a further supplement, if necessary, to produce a total pension from Company Plans equal to the pension that would be payable if the member were then retiring at normal retirement, based on the normal retirement minimum pension and full unreduced Canada Pension Plan Retirement benefit both determined as of that date, his accrued pension including any escalation thereof and his related credited service. This further supplement shall then be added to and form part of the member's lifetime supplement.
III	For members who retire on or after March 23, 1993 the following shall apply:
(A)	Minimum Pension et Normal Retirement:
A member retiring at age 65 with at least 30 years of credited service is entitled to a lifetime supplement being the amount required to be added to the member’s accrued pension and the full unreduced Canada Pension Plan Retirement benefits determined at the date of his retirement to produce a minimum monthly pension of $1,905.00.
If a member retires at age 65 with less than 30 years of credited service, the lifetime supplement shall be the amount by which the minimum pension at normal retirement exceeds the full unreduced Canada Pension Plan Retirement benefits, prorated by the ratio of the number of years of credited service to 30 years and reduced by the member's accrued pension.
•42-
(B)	Calculation of Pension Benefit Accrual:
For service after March 23, 1993: a monthly pension equal to $32.00 multiplied by the number of years of credited service.
(C)	Special Early Retirement:
A member retiring after having attained age 60 with at least 30 years of credited service is entitled to an immediate accrued pension equal to the amount of accrued pension to his credit for service to date of early retirement, without reduction for the earlier date of retirement.
This pension will be supplemented by an amount necessary to provide a monthly pension of $1,695.00from Company Plans payable until the member would have first become eligible to receive unreduced Canada Pension Plan Retirement benefits. Thereafter the supplement shall be recalculated as the amount required to be added to the member's accrued pension and the full unreduced Canada Pension Plan Retirement benefits determined at the date of his retirement to produce a monthly pension of $1,905.00; which supplement shall become his lifetime supplement.
In addition to the recalculated lifetime supplement, a member who retires before March 22, 1994 will be paid a further supplement, if necessary, to produce a total pension from the Company Plans equal to the pension that would be payable if the member were then retiring at normal retirement, based on the normal retirement minimum pension and full unreduced Canada Pension Plan Retirement benefit both determined as of that date, his accrued pension
-43-
including any escalation thereof and his related credited service. This further supplement shall then be added to and form part of the member's lifetime supplement.
IV	Other Early Retirement
A member retiring on or after March 23, 1988 and after having attained age 55 but prior to having qualified for Special Early Retirement is entitled to an immediate accrued pension equal to the amount of accrued vested pension to his credit for service to date of early retirement reduced in accordance with his age when his pension commences.
In addition, such member shall be entitled to a lifetime supplement calculated as if the member had attained age 65 on his date of retirement but using his current unreduced vested accrued pension and his related credited service, the full unreduced Canada Pension Plan Retirement benefit and the normal retirement minimum pension all determined es of the member's actual date of retirement.
The lifetime supplement so calculated will then be reduced in accordance with his age when his pension commences.
V	Termination of Employment Westing)
A member’s accrued pension and lifetime supplement shall completely vest upon the completion of two (2) years of credited service.
VI	Joint and Survivor Pension
A Member with an eligible spouse who takes Normal, -44-
Special Early, 85 Point or Early retirement on or after March 23, 1988, shall receive a joint and survivor pension unless the persons entitled to the joint and survivor pension deliver to the Plan Administrator a written waiver of such entitlement in the prescribed form within the period of twelve (12) months immediately preceding the commencement of payment of the pension benefit.
Unless waived, the member's accrued pension and lifetime supplement, if any, shall be reduced by 10% during his lifetime. Upon his death, his eligible surviving spouse shall receive a pension of 60% of the member's reduced accrued pension and lifetime supplement, if any, (subject to actuarial reduction if such spouse is more than 10 years younger than the member).
VII	Death Before Retirement
If a member dies after having met the existing eligibility requirements for a pre-retirement spousal pension, his spouse shall receive an immediate pension equal to the existing percentage of the accrued pension to his credit for service prior to the date of his death under the existing pre-retirement spousal pension provisions, plus the same percentage of his lifetime supplement.
The lifetime supplement will be calculated as if the member had attained age 65 on his date of death, but using his current unreduced accrued pension and his related credited service, the full unreduced Canada Pension Plan Retirement benefit and the normal retirement minimum pension all determined as of the member's actual date of death.
•45
VIII	85 Point Retirement
A member retiring on or after March 23, 1991 and after having attained age 55 and whose age plus years of credited service total 85 or more (but prior to having qualified for special early retirement) is entitled to an immediate accrued pension equal to the amount of accrued vested pension to his credit for service to date of early retirement.
In addition, such member shall be entitled to a lifetime supplement calculated as if the member had attained age 65 on his date of retirement but using his current unreduced vested accrued pension and his related credited service, the full unreduced Canada Pension Plan Retirement Benefit and the normal retirement minimum pension all determined as of the member's actual date of retirement.
Effective March 23, 1991, employees who retire on 85 point retirement will qualify for retiree major medical benefit and retiree life insurance.
IX	Disability Retirement (Effective March 23, 1991)
For employees who have attained age 50 and completed 10 years of service who become disabled and retire under the disability provisions of the pension plan will receive a supplementary benefit of $14.00 per month multiplied by the number of years of credited service up to a maximum of 30 years. The supplement is payable until the employee is eligible to receive either a statutory disability or retirement benefit. This supplement will be paid in addition to such employees' full accrued pension at the time of disability retirement.
X	Escalation of Benefit
Commencing with the January 1st following a -46-
member's actual retirement date, the member's accrued pension and lifetime supplement, if any, shall be increased each January 1 by the percentage set out in the existing pension escalation formula.
Any spousal pension will also be escalated on the existing formula, with the first increase occurring on the January 1st following the member’s date of death.
ARTICLE 10-GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
Section 10:1
Five (5) shop stewards, one of whom shall be the ^ chief steward, who shall be regular employees of the * Company, shall be elected by the Union and recognized by the Company.
Section 10:2
There shall be a Grievance Committee consisting of up to three (3) employees designated by the Union, who are actually then in the employ of the Company, and who will be afforded such reasonable time off as may be required to attend Grievance meetings held at the request of the Management or the Grievance Committee.
The Union shall advise the Company of the names of members of the Grievance Committee and Shop Stewards in writing, and also of any changes from time to time.
Section 10:3
The Company or the Union, or aggrieved employees, can file grievances for processing under this Agreement.
-47-
Letters of Understanding signed by the Company and the Union shall be deemed to be part of the Agreement for the purpose of enabling a grievance to be processed under this Agreement.
Section 10:4
In the case any grievance arises, an honest effort shall be made to settle the differences.
Grievances arising out of a dismissal of an employee will be submitted directly to the third step of the grievance procedure and all other grievances shall be handled in the following manner:
10:4:1
First:	the aggrieved employee, who may be
accompanied by the shop steward, shall within ten (10) working days of the grievance arising or becoming apparent discuss the matter with his immediate supervisor. Failing a satisfactory settlement, the grievance shall be put in writing on the forms provided by the union and shall be signed by the shop steward.
Within a further five (5) working days the supervisor shall schedule a meeting with the grievor and the Shop Steward in an attempt to reach a satisfactory settlement.
The supervisor shall answer the grievance within five (5) working days of the Step 1 meeting.
10:4:2
Second: if the answer at step 1 is not satisfactory the grievance may be advanced to the department head within five (5) working days of receipt of the answer
-48-
at step 1. The department head or his designate shall schedule a meeting with the shop steward, who may be accompanied by the grievor, within five (5) working days of receipt of the notice to advance the grievance to Step 2.
The Department Head or his designate shall answer the grievance within five (5) working days of the Step 2 meeting.
10:4:3
Third: if the answer at step 2 is not satisfactory the grievance may be advanced to the plant manager within five (5) working days of receipt of the answer at step 2. The plant manager or his designate shall schedule a meeting with the grievance committee, who may be accompanied by the grievor, within five (5) working days of receipt of the notice to advance the grievance to step 3.
The Plant Manager or his designate shall answer the grievance within five (5) working days of the Step 3 meeting.
10:4:4
Fourth: if the answer is not satisfactory at Step 3, the grievance may be advanced to arbitration within thirty (30) working days of receipt of the answer at Step 3.
10:4:5
Fifth: The grievance shall be submitted to a single arbitrator to be agreed upon by the parties. Should the parties fail to agree upon an arbitrator the Provincial Minister of Labour shall be requested to appoint an arbitrator. The decision of the arbitrator as to the interpretation or alleged violation of the Agreement shall be final and binding on the Company
-49-
and the Union.
Where an arbitrator finds in favour of an aggrieved employee, such employee shall receive full back pay for the time lost arising out of the grievance, and full reinstatement in his former job, including all benefits and entitlements held prior to the grievance having arisen.
Where an employee has been suspended, dismissed, or disciplined, the arbitrator may confirm, modify or set aside the decision.
The arbitrator shall have the power to decide if a question before him is arbitrable. The Company and the Union shall share equally the cost of the arbitrator.
In the case of a grievance being filed by either the Company or the Union respecting any grievance as distinguished from the first tendered by an aggrieved employee, the parties shall commence discussions at the second step of the grievance procedure, and the grievance shall be put in writing by the aggrieved party should settlement not be reached in that step.
10:4:6
The time limits specified in Steps One to Five, may be extended by mutual agreement in writing. If any of the time periods are not adhered to by either party, the grievance shall automatically proceed to the next step.
10:4:7
All disciplinary records will be removed from the employee’s personnel folder and destroyed after a period of two (2) years from the date of issuance of such discipline and thereafter shall not be relied upon
■50-
for any purpose. However, verbal warnings shall be removed from an employee’s personnel file after only one (1) year as long as there has not been any other discipline on file within the one (1 ) year period.
Prior to effecting a discharge or suspension of an employee the company shall notify the union in writing as to the reason for the action being taken.
ARTICLE 11 - WORK STABILIZATION
Section 11:1- Guaranteed Wage Plan
The Company will provide a guaranteed wage plan, a copy of which is attached as Appendix “A” which shall be an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 11:2 Manpower
The Company will as far as possible provide full employment for its employees. To this end extra shift or extra employees will not be used at any time to subsequently curtail the full-time work possibilities.
Section 1 1:3 Job Training and Re-Training 11:3:1
Employees shall be given reasonable training in all jobs within the bargaining unit, in the interests of the longer term employees not suffering from layoff because of not having had the opportunity to train or retrain for the more steady jobs.
11:3:2
Employees will be eligible for refund of tuition costs -51-
(including prescribed text books) of educational courses provided that:
11:3:2:1
The course is given by a recognized school and is approved by the Human Resources Manager prior to the taking of the course and is a contribution to the development of the employee;
11:3:2:2
The course is likely to contribute to the employee's performance or advancement within the Company; and
11:3:2:3
The employee offers proof of successful completion of the course.
Section 11:4 Technological Change 11:4:1
In the event that, during this Collective Agreement, the Company plans to introduce a major technological change which it anticipates will direclty result in the indefinite layoff of ten (10) or more regular employees, the following shall apply:
(a)	The Company will give the Union notice of such technological change at least sixty (60) days before the date on which the technological change is to be effected. After giving notice, the Company shall identify by job classification,
-52-
the number of jobs to be displaced. The jobs to be displaced shall be grouped by the Company for the purposes of paragraph (c) herein.
(b)	The Company will meet and discuss with the Union the redeployment of the affected regular employees in accordance with the provisions of the Collective Agreement and the provisions as set out in the Guaranteed Wage Plan (GWP); and, in so doing, shall designate the employees to be indefinitely laid off;
(c)	During the first thirty (30) days of the notice period and prior to effecting any layoffs or separations under the Collective Agreement, the Company shall canvass employees eligible for special early retirement (“eligible employees”) as to their willingness to elect special early retirement. Such eligible employees shall be approached within each group determined in paragraph (a) in order of seniority and, if they choose to take special early retirement within the above thirty (30) day period and actually retire within thirty (30) days thereafter, will receive a Technological Change Bonus (TCB). The TCB will be determined by dividing the total amount of the separation pay entitlement of all the employees designated for indefinite layoff in paragraph (b) above,by the total number of employees so designated. The number of special early retirees in any group who may receive the TCB will not exceed the number of jobs in that group which are to be permanently displaced by the technological change and, if a greater number of eligible employees in any group so elect to take special early retirement, the TCB will only be paid to the most senior of them.
-53-
11:4:2 If
(a)	the number of eligible employees in any group who elect to take special early retirement is less than the number of jobs in that group to be permanently displaced by the technological change, or
(b)	the Company did not anticipate the number of layoffs but the introduction of the major technological change actually directly results in the indefinite layoff of ten (10) or more regular employees,
the following provisions shall apply:
(i)	the employees ultimately designated for indefinite layoff hereunder, will be permitted to elect separation and to terminate from the Company prior to their scheduled date of layoff. Those employees so electing and terminating from the Company shall be entitled to receive the amount of separation payment calculated in accordance with Section 14.1 hereof. If any of those employees were classified as regular employees prior to May 5, 1988, their separation payment calculation shall include an additional One Thousand Dollars ($1,000);
(ii)	those employees designated for indefinite layoff hereunder who do not elect to terminate from the Company pursuant to the provisions of the preceding paragraph, and who are eligible for participation in the Guaranteed Wage Plan, shall receive the benefits provided for under that Plan. In addition, such employees shall receive an additional eight (8) weeks of benefit
-54-
entitlement under that Plan, subject to the following conditions:
(A)	an employee may use the additional eight (8) weeks of entitlement only once during his employment, and notwithstanding Section 8 of the Plan, the eight (8) weeks can never be restored;
(B)	the additional eight (8) weeks of
entitlement shall be the first weeks used.
ARTICLE 12 - SECURITY OF PRINCIPLES Section 12: 1 Picket Line
There shall be no lockout on the part of the Company and likewise there shall be no sympathetic strikes staged by the Union while this Agreement is in force and effect provided the Company shall not request or require its employees to handle, process or deliver goods coming from, belonging to, or for delivery to any establishment at which a legal strike or legal lockout is in progress, and it shall not be a violation of this Agreement for employees to refuse to handle, process or deliver such goods, or to refuse to cross an established bona fide picket line.
Notwithstanding anything contained herein the Union will provide skeleton crews to operate the engine room and to protect the Company's property and products during any form of labour disturbance which may arise.
Section 12:2 Union Label
The Company agrees to use the Union label on its bottles, cans and packages.
-55-
Section 12:3 Union Malt
Only Union made malt may be used when available. Wherever practicable the Company shall endeavour to see that all materials used by the Company shall be materials which are processed by Union Labour in respect to their manufacture and subsequent wholesaling and handling.
Section 12:4 Contracting Out
It is understood that the Company will not contract out work, if it is agreed that such work can be performed by a member of the bargaining unit who is available for such work.
After full discussion with the Union, if it is necessary for the Company to contract work to outside firms, preference will be given to firms employing Union people provided all things are reasonably equal.
In the event the parties cannot agree and the Company commences or continues to contract the work the matter may be referred to the grievance procedure, commencing at the third step of the grievance procedure.
ARTICLE 13-GENERAL
Section 13:1 Jury Duty
When an employee is required to serve on a regular or coroner's jury, or is subpoenaed as a Crown witness, during his normal working hours he shall be granted a leave of absence. During this leave of absence he shall receive the difference between his straight time rate of pay, (for hours necessarily absent and during which he would otherwise have been working), and the amount received for
-56-
such jury duty or for attending as a Crown witness. Section 13:2 Bereavement Pay
When an employee attends the funeral (or memorial service if there is no funeral) of an immediate relative he shall receive leave of absence for not less than three (3) consecutive days (one of which days shall be the day of the service) and shall receive eight (8) hours straight-time rate of pay for each of such days absent on which he would otherwise have been working.
For the purpose of this Section 13:2 “immediate relative” shall mean one of the following: Wife, Husband, Daughter, Son, Mother, Father, Sister, Brother, Mother-inlaw, Father-in-law, Grandparents (of the employee or his wife), Brother-in-law, Sister-in-law, Nieces and Nephews.
Section 13:3 Uniforms, Coveralls, Safety, etc.
13:3:1
The Company will pay the cost of providing and laundering three (3) sets of uniforms (bearing the Union label) per week.
13:3:2
Employees are required to present a clean and neat appearance at all times. An employee will be responsible for paying for preventable loss or damage to uniform or safety glasses.
The Company will also provide required protective work clothing, safety glasses and will subsidize the
■57
cost of safety shoes allowance with respect to regular employees up to a maximum of $75.00 per year. (Effective 1992 - $100.00 per year).
13:3:4
No employee shall be required to undertake any job, or lift excessive weights which may endanger his health, without receiving protective clothing or device.
13:3:5
A plant Safety Committee shall be continued, with equal representation from management and the bargaining unit. This committee shall recommend programmes, practices, and devices to eliminate unsafe work practices and hazardous conditions. Where mutually agreed, the Company shall implement such recommendations.
Section 13:4 Leave of Absence
An employee wishing a Leave of Absence, not covered elsewhere in the contract, shall apply in writing through his immediate supervisor, stating the reason for the leave and the period of leave required. Each request will be judged on its own merits, taking into account the cause for the leave and the requirements of the operation.
All Leaves of Absence will be mutually agreed to between the Company and the Union before being granted.
Employees granted Leave of Absence will be required to pay dues covering the period of leave to Local 250 in advance, unless otherwise agreed to.
58
Changes in Leaves of Absence granted in this action will only be made in cases of emergency.
Section 13:5 Job Rotation - Bottleshop
There will be a full rotation within wage classifications in the bottleshop area except in those instances where it can be established that portions of such rotation are detrimental to the efficient operation of the plant. Frequency of change not to exceed two (2) weeks unless mutually agreed.
Section 13:6 T-4 Slips
T-4 slips to be given to employees by January 30th
ARTICLE 14- SEPARATION PAY
Section 14:1
14:1:1 A Regular Employee shall be entitled to separation pay as set out in subsection 14:1 :3 provided he has not been excluded by subsection 14:1:2 and provided he meets any of the following eligibility provisions:
(a)	if he is terminated for a reason other than set out in subsection 14: 1:2;
(b)	if he is laid off and on any date during his layoff the hours scheduled for him during the previous twelve (12) consecutive months were less than fifty percent (50%) of normal full time hours provided he is not eligible for any Company or Government pension or for benefits under the Company's insured Weekly Indemnity
-59-
or Long Term Disability Plans;
(c)	in special cases where a laid off employee appears to have little prospect of recall to regular work within a period of six (6) months he may request immediate termination and separation pay, and with the concurrence of the Company and the Union this may be granted notwithstanding the eligibility clause in (b) above;
(d)	if he is ultimately designated for indefinite lay off as a result of a major technological change as provided in Section 11:4.2;
An employee eligible for a separation payment hereunder must apply for it not later than six (6) months after he first becomes eligible therefor, otherwise his right to such payment shall be cancelled.
Notwithstanding the above if the Company permanently discontinues an operation, an employee laid off as a result thereof must apply for and shall receive any separation pay to which he is entitled without waiting the six (6) month’s period.
14:1:2 Notwithstanding subsection 14:1:1, a n employee shall be excluded from separation pay eligibility if:
(a)	he quits;
(b)	he is terminated for just cause;
(c)	he is terminated under Section 3:1:2 (loss of seniority provision) of this collective agreement;
■60-
(d)	he has been terminated because of
specific direction or decree from any Government authority which has the effect of curtailing any of the Company's operations; unless
(i)	the direction or decree is the result of an illegal act committed by the Company or one of its representatives, or
(ii)	the direction or decree purports to change the method of beer retailing within the Province;
(e)	he has been laid off because of any act of war or the hostile act of any foreign power or by any act of sabotage or insurrection or by any act of God;
(f)	he is laid off and has arranged with the Company to take leave of absence without pay for a specific period in lieu of his layoff;
(g)	he is in receipt of income replacement
benefits under the Weekly Indemnity or Long Term Disability Plans or the Workers’ Compensation Act;
(h)	he is entitled to receive any pension under the Company or Government Pension Plan.
14:1:3 The amount of the separation payment of an eligible employee shall be equal to:
(a) one week’s base earnings (computed on the basis of his hourly rate in effect as of time of layoff) multiplied by the number of his completed years of seniority (as used
-61-
for vacation entitlement) as of the last day he actively worked in the Bargining Unit, plus
(b) for employees classified as regular prior to May 5,1988, an additional Three Hundred and Seventy-Five Dollars ($375.00) multiplied by his completed years of seniority used in (a) above to a maximum of 15 years. However, such eligible employee who applies for separation pay at the time he first becomes eligible therefor shall have his separation pay under this part (b) calculated as Seven Hundred and Fiftv Dollars ($750.00) multiplied by his ‘completed years of seniority used in (a) above to a maximum of 15 years. If there is a permanent closure of the brewery the 15 year maximum is replaced with a 22 year maximum.
14:1:4 The Company shall be authorized to deduct from any separation pay payable to an employee hereunder the amount of any Guaranteed Wage Plan payment made to such employee which the employee was not entitled to receive.
14:1:5 If an employee applies for and accepts a separation payment hereunder, his employment is terminated and his seniority and other rights under the Collective Bargaining Agreement are cancelled.
ARTICLE 15 - UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE PREMIUM REBATE
Section 15:1
The employee's share of any Unemployment -62-
Insurance Premium Rebate will be retained by the Company to offset a portion of the cost of the benefit improvements contained in this agreement.
ARTICLE 16 - DUPLICATION OF BENEFITS
An employee shall not receive wages or other allowances such as holiday pay, vacation pay, weekly indemnity, LTD, Workers’ Compensation, or other similar benefits from more than one source for the same day or part of the day.
An employee receiving a benefit such as sick leave, weekly indemnity, long term disability, WCB, GWP etc. will continue to receive these benefits, while eligible, in lieu of any other monies or benefits under the collective agreement.
ARTICLE 17 - DURATION OF AGREEMENT Section 17: 1 - Duration Defined
This Collective Agreement shall remain in force until March 22. 1994. and thereafter from year to year unless either party serves notice of termination or amendment not greater than one hundred twenty (120) days and not less than sixty (60) days prior to March 22, 1994, or if such notice has not then been served, then not greater than one hundred twenty (120) days and not less than sixty (60) days prior to the 22nd of March in any subsequent year thereto.
All conditions of this Collective Agreement shall remain in force and effect until the earlier of a ratified amended Collective Agreement or the mediation proceedings pursuant to The Labour Relations Code have been exhausted.
There shall be no retroactive application of any of the provisions of this settlement and the resulting amendments
-63-
to the Collective Agreements except as expressly provided for herein.
Section 17:2 Retroactive Pay
For the period from March 23, 1991 until the date preceding the effective date of the new rates, the applicable across-the-board increase will be payable to all Regular Employees, who are still employed on the date of ratification, or who have retired during that period. Such payment will be made as soon as practicable following ratification for all hours worked during that period.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto have caused their respective proper officers to set their hands on the day first above mentioned.
For the Company:	For the Union:
64-
LABATT'S ALBERTA BREWERY
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING NO. 1
It is understood and agreed that an employee may at his discretion apply all or a portion of his overtime hours towards an equivalent of hours time off, that is, an employee who works one hour of double time his regular rate shall be reimbursed in one of the following ways:
1)	Paid at two (2) times his regular wage rate, or;
2)	Upon his request to his Supervisor, the employee would be granted two (2) hours time off at his regular wage rate.
The following controls will apply to the banking of overtime:
a)	The maximum number of hours that may be taken in time off in a year in any one department, or section of a department, shall be 80 hours times the number of men in that section, e.g. three (3) electricians between them could divide 240 hours in accumulated banked time off. For this purpose, the year will run from May 1st to April 30th,
b)	The intent of this plan is that employees take
significant blocks of time off at any one time, i.e. one (1) week. Time off for periods as short as one (1) day will be granted on occasions where reasonable notice is given and shift change premium is not required for the man's replacement.
c)	Banked time is accumulated over a calendar year.
Employees are not required to take their banked time off during the calendar year in which it was accumulated but must use their entitlement by March 31st of the following year. To qualify for using this entitlement in the period December 1 to March 31, the employee must have previously scheduled his vacation entitlements. Banked time off not taken by
-65-
the March 31 st deadline will be paid at the rate it was banked. Banked time off may be taken between September 1st and April 30th. Time off will be arranged by requests to the immediate supervisor, and such requests shall be accommodated where time off does not interfere with the operation of the plant. Following the finalization of the vacation schedule on March 31 of each year, requests for remaining vacation and banked time off will be considered and approved on a first come first served basis. The scheduling process of vacations prior to March 31 shall take preference over the scheduling process of banked overtime in the event of any conflict. Requests for banked time will be approved only after the banked time has been accumulated.
d)	Maintenance department employees may not take
their accumulated time off during the annual overhaul periods, but their requests for time off outside September 1st to April 30th will be granted where possible.
e)	Employees may at their discretion, request payment in cash for overtime hours banked. All such requests must be made in writing and signed by the employee making the request. Overtime monies will be included in the employee’s regular pay cheque following the request provided a minimum of one (1) week’s notice is received prior to the issuing of pay cheques. This Letter will remain in effect as long as current practices exist, but will expire March 22, 1994 unless renewed by mutual agreement.
66-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto have affixed their signatures, this 6th day of October, A.D. 1991 .
FOR THE UNION:	FOR THE COMPANY:
-67-
LABATT'S ALBERTA BREWERY
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING NO. 2
It has been agreed between the parties that:
1)	Not less than thirty (30) days before the annual plant overhaul, the Company and the Union will mutually agree to the maintenance helpers to be designated for the purpose of overhaul.
2)	The company shall continue with its present practice of providing pay advances to employees for reasons of vacation for payment covering the vacation period and in emergency situations if circumstances warrant. An advance shall be subject to the approval of either the Plant or Human Resources Manager.
3)	The Company agrees to continue with its present pay practice with respect to the “Bottleshop Utility Operator " in relation to the wage rate of a “Machine Operator”.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto have affixed their signatures, this 6th day of October, A.D. 1991.
FOR THE UNION:	FOR THE COMPANY:
68
LABATT'S ALBERTA BREWERY
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING NO. 3
The company will give the union six (6) months notice of its intention to permanently close the brewery.
FOR THE UNION:
FOR THE COMPANY:
-69-
APPENDIX “A’
Guaranteed Wage Plan AGREEMENT BETWEEN:
Labatt's Alberta Brewery, Division of Labatt Brewing Company Limited, a company duly incorporated under the Laws of the Province of Alberta, having its head office in the City of Edmonton, in the Province of Alberta (hereinafter called the “Company”)
- and -
Brewery, Beverage and Soft Drink Workers, Local 250, affiliated with the Retail, Wholesale and Department Store Union (hereinafter called the “Union”)
WHEREAS The Company has entered into a Collective Agreement with the above named Union.
AND WHEREAS the Parties hereto have agreed to make this supplementary Agreement which is to be a supplement to the said Collective Agreement, and any grievances arising out of the administration of this supplement may be dealt with under the Grievance Procedure of the Collective Agreement.
NOW THEREFORE the Parties hereto agree to the continuation of the Guaranteed Wage Plan as hereinafter set forth with such continuation to become effective on the 23rd day of March, 1991 or any later date on which approval for continuation has been received from the Federal Government holding that:
a)	The Plan meets the requirement of Employment and Immigration Canada with respect to Supplemental Unemployment Benefit Plans,
70-
b)	Payments by the Company pursuant to this Plan will be classed as deductible expenses for corporate income tax purposes, and,
c)	The receipt by employees of the benefits provided by this Plan will not disqualify such employees from receiving any part of the Unemployment Insurance Benefits to which they would otherwise be entitled.
1. Purpose
The purpose of this plan is to provide a method of guaranteeing income to certain employees who are laid off.
2. Eligibility of Participation in the Plan
An eligible employee entitled to participate in this Plan is an hourly rated employee who has:
(a)	actually worked for the Company as such for a period in excess of one hundred and thirty-two (132) working days in any twelve (12) month period, and
(b)	has completed at least one (1) year of Benefit Service determined as of the 23rd day of March immediately preceding his layoff.
(c)	Notwithstanding the above, employees not classified as regular employees prior to May 5, 1988 shall not be eligible to participate in this plan until March 23 of the year following the employee’s attainment of three (3) years of benefit service.
For purposes of the plan, Benefit Service shall be computed as the length of service of such employee subsequent to a date six (6) calendar months prior to the date on which he completed working one hundred and thirty-two (132) working days in any twelve (12) month period.
71
3. Exceptions
This plan has no application to and provides no benefits for:
(a)	Employees who have been laid off for disciplinary reasons and if such lay-off is questioned under the Grievance Procedure of the Collective Agreement. Final disposition of any grievance will determine the employee's status under the Plan.
(b)	Employees who have been laid off because of any strike, lockout, slowdown, picketing or other action by employees of this Company or by employees of any other employer who are represented for collective bargaining purposes by the United Food and Commercial Workers International Union or by any Local Union thereof, or by the Brewery, Malt and Soft Drink Workers or any Local Union thereof, or by the Brewery, Beverage and Soft Drink Workers or any Local Union thereof, or by the Retail, Wholesale and Department Store Union or any Local Union thereof, or by the Western Union of Brewery, Beverage, Winery and Distillery Workers or any Local Union thereof, or by any successor of any of the aforementioned.
(c)	Employees who have been terminated because of specific direction or decree from any Government authority which has the effect of curtailing any of the Company's operations.
(d)	Employees who have been laid off because of any act of war or the hostile act of any foreign power or by any act of sabotage or insurrection or by any act of God.
(e)	Employees who are laid off and who have arranged with the Company to take leave of absence without pay for a specific period in lieu of their layoff. These employees will be deemed to have opted out of the Plan for such period.
72
4,	Disqualification for Benefits
An employee who has been laid off and who would otherwise be eligible for participation in the Plan shall not receive any payments under the Plan for any week:
(i)	In which he has been on layoff and has failed to apply for U.l. benefits, or in which he has been disqualified or disentitled from U.l. benefits by any reason other than serving a two (2) week waiting period.
(ii)	In which he has been on layoff and has failed to keep himself registered for employment with the Canada Manpower Centre in those cases where such registration is necessary to qualify for U.l. benefits or for reduction of U.l. waiting period.
(iii)	In which he has failed or refused to accept employment deemed suitable for him by the Unemployment Insurance Commission.
(iv)	In which he has failed to accept and report for any appropriate work assignment of at least one
(1)	normal working day unless excused for reasonable cause.
(v)	In which he is in receipt of a benefit provided by the Company's Sick Leave Plan, Insured Weekly Indemnity Plan, Insured Long Term Disability Plan or other benefit plan of the Company.
(vi)	After he has become entitled to receive any pension under the Company or Government Pension Plan.
(vii)	In respect of which he is qualified for compensation from the Worker's Compensation Board for any compensable accident or illness.
-73-
5. Definitions
For the purposes of this Plan:
“Wages” shall mean actual earnings for work performed and vacation pay, payment for any leave of absence with pay granted, e.g. jury duty, bereavement pay, payment for Statutory Holidays and call-in pay.
“Week” shall mean the Company's payroll week.
“Compensated and available hours” means as applied to any particular week for any employee:
(a)	All hours worked by the employee for the Company or for any other employer in such week, plus
(b)	All hours not worked by the employee in such week but for which he receives wages from any employer, plus
(c)	All hours scheduled in such week for an employee who is not on layoff and which he has not worked for any reason other than lack of work, plus
(d)	All hours scheduled in such week for an employee who is on layoff and which he has not worked for any reason other than lack of work after being given reasonable notice according to the established practice of the Company that such scheduled hours were available to be worked by him.
“Week of Layoff means a week in which the employee’s compensated and available hours are less than forty (40).
6. Benefits Provided for Laid off Employees
Subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan as herein set out, each eligible employee who is laid off from the
-74-
Bargaining Unit shall receive in addition to any wages earned in the week a benefit from the Plan for each week of layoff calculated by determining the product of items 1, 2 and 3 below and deducting from such product the sum of item 4 below.
(1)	Seventy percent (70%) for eligible employees as hereinabove defined.
(2)	The straight time hourly rate of the employee in effect as of the time of layoff.
(3)	The excess of forty (40) over the compensated and available hours of the employee.
(4)	The actual benefit, if any, for which such employee is eligible under the Unemployment Insurance Act for such week.
7. Welfare Benefits During Layoff
An employee who is laid off continues to participate in the Welfare Plan of the Company applicable to employees in his Bargaining Unit to the end of the month following the last month in which he has worked in the Bargaining Unit, or until the end of the last month during which he has drawn a benefit under this Plan, whichever is the latter. Welfare Plan for the purpose of this section does not include the Pension Plan or the Company's Sick Leave Plan, Insured Weekly Indemnity Plan or Insured Long Term Disability Plan which covers only indemnity for wages actually lost because of illness or accident.
An employee on layoff who, pursuant to the above, has ceased to participate in the Welfare Plan is restored to participation immediately upon completion of eight (8) hours work in the Bargaining Unit.
75
8. Duration of Benefits
The maximum benefit entitlement of an employee at any time shall not exceed that benefit established in accordance with Table "A". However, the employee’s actual benefit entitlement will be less than the maximum benefit entitlement if he has used any benefits and has not subsequently restored them.
Weeks of benefits are restored based upon the formula of 1 /1 Oth of a week for each eight (8) full hours during which the employee earned wages from the Company up to the employee's maximum benefit entitlement set out in Table “A” below. No credits towards future benefit entitlements are allowed for wages earned during any period in which the employee is already entitled to the maximum benefit set out in Table “A”.
Table A
Completed Years of Benefit Service determined as of the March 23
immediately preceding his layoff 15 Years or More 10 Years or More 5 Years or More 4 Years or More 3 Years or More
Maximum Benefit Entitlement
78 Weeks of benefits
65 Weeks of benefits
52 Weeks of benefits
45 Weeks of benefits
35 Weeks of benefits
The maximum number of weeks of benefits which an employee may use during any twelve (12) month period commencing March 23 shall not exceed his Maximum Benefit Entitlement determined as of that March 23 in accordance with Table “A” above.
-76-
Each eligible employee’s weeks of benefits shall be decreased by one (1) week for each week in respect of which he is on layoff and in receipt of benefits for more than thirty-two (32) hours; and by 4/5ths of one (1) week for each week in which he is on layoff and in receipt of benefits for more than twenty-four (24) hours; and by 3/5ths of one (1) week for each week in which he is on layoff and in receipt of benefits for more than sixteen (16) hours; and by 2/5ths of one (1) week for each week in which he is on layoff and in receipt of benefits for more than eight (8) hours; and by 1 /5th of a week in which he is on layoff and in receipt of benefits for eight (8) hours or less; and his weeks of benefits shall also be decreased by one (1) week for each week in which he is on layoff but was disqualified for any of the reasons set out in subsections (i), (ii), (iii) and (iv) of Section 4.
9. Deductions
Any payment made under this Plan shall be subject to any deductions required by Federal, Provincial or Municipal authority or by the provisions of the Collective Agreement, or by voluntary authorization from the employee concerned.
10. Applications
Employees shall be required to observe such rules and follow such procedures and make such reports and applications as shall be prescribed by the Company after consultation with the Union. The willful falsification of any fact material to the determination of an employee's benefit rights under the Plan shall result in the forfeiture of any benefit rights he may have under the Plan for a period of twelve (12) months subsequent to the discovery of such falsification, and this shall not preclude any other disciplinary action which may be imposed subject to the Grievance Procedure of the Collective Agreement.
■77
11. Reporting
The Company will make periodic reports to the Union weekly while employees are laid off and receiving benefits under the Plan and quarterly if no employees are on layoff, giving the Union complete information as to the number of employees who have been laid off, the duration thereof, the payments made to each individual under the Plan, the number of ineligible and disqualified employees, and such other similar information as may be relevant.
12. Duration of Agreement
This agreement shall continue until July 31, 1994.
During negotiations for renewal of the relevant Collective Agreement, the Union is free to request amendments to this Agreement which shall also be part of such negotiations, but on the understanding that any amendments to this Agreement will not take effect any earlier than August 1, 1994.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto have affixed their signature this 6th day of October, A.D. 1991.
FOR THE COMPANY:	FOR THE UNION:
78
DENTAL CARE BENEFITS FOR WAGE
EMPLOYEES OF LABATT'S ALBERTA BREWERY
Dental care benefits are provided for you and your eligible dependents subject to the limitations and exclusions described herein. Dependents eligible for such benefits are your spouse and unmarried children who are under 21 years of age and dependent upon you for support.
1.	ELIGIBLE DENTAL EXPENSES:
Eligible services are those reasonable and customary dental services which are recommended as necessary and performed by a qualified dentist or by a dental mechanic when operating within the scope of his license. Eligible dental services are classified under three major categories as listed below. Non-listed services will be provided for on the basis of special reports by the dentist to the insurer.
(a) Basic Services:
(1)	Diagnostic services, including oral examination and consultation
(2)	X-rays, including
-	bitewing films once each year for routine
examination and as required where special need is indicated.
-	full mouth or panoramic films not more than
once in each two year period for routine examination.
-	follow-up x-rays and retakes
-	oral cytology examination
(3)	Preventative services, including
79
topical application of fluoride once in each year.
patient education in diet, oral physiotherapy.
prophylaxis, scaling and polishing not more than once each year.
(4)	All fillings of silver amalgam, synthetic porcelain and plastic; gold inlays but only in such cases as cannot be fully restored by standard filling materials.
(5)	Standard surgical services
(6)	Children's dentistry, including coverage for services listed above as well as space maintainers and habit inhibitors.
b) Restorative services:
(1)	Periodontics-treatment of the supporting
structures of the teeth as required.
(2)	Standard endodontics procedures-root canal therapy.
(3)	Crowns and bridges including repairs to and
recementing of existing crowns and bridges.
(4)	Prosthetics, including
-	complete and partial dentures
-	relining and repairing existing dentures
-	replacement of dentures if professionally
indicated; each subsequent replacement denture is eligible only if made more than 5 years following the placement or replacement of a denture for which benefits have been paid under this plan.
■80
c) Orthodontic Services - proper fitting of natural teeth and prevention or correction of irregularities of the teeth.
2.	AMOUNT OF BENEFITS:
You will be reimbursed for 100% of the cost of eligible Basic Services incurred by you or your dependents, 75% of the cost of Restorative Services and 50% of the cost of Orthodontic Services. Benefits will be paid on the basis of the lesser of the actual fee charged or the amount stated in the current Dental Association Schedule of Fees in the province of Alberta. If optional procedures are possible, benefits will be payable in accordance with the procedure involving the smallest fee.
The maximum benefits payable are defined in Section 9:1:6.
3.	SERVICES NOT COVERED:
Dental care benefits are not payable for prescription drugs, hospital charges except for those items listed as eligible expenses, charges of an anaesthetist or anesthesiologist while the insured is hospitalized, those services provided for under the Alberta Health Insurance Act or other government legislation, services eligible for payment from another source such as Workers' Compensation, a government agency or any other insurer, expenses incurred principally for cosmetic purposes, expenses resulting from an act of war, or any service for which an employee or dependent does not have to pay.
4.	CANCELLATION OF INSURANCE:
Your dental care insurance will be cancelled as of the date you retire, die or terminate service with the Company. Dental coverage is extended for 31 days of further
-81-
treatment after the date on which your insurance is cancelled but only for any condition covered by the plan for which you or an eligible dependent had received an examination and authorization for treatment and/or to allow for completion of treatment already initiated while insured. No new treatment may be authorized during this 31 day period.
5.	HOW TO CLAIM:
When you or any of your dependents are entitled to receive insured benefits you should obtain the necessary claim forms from your Supervisor. When you have completed the employee's portion of the claim form you should have your dentist complete his section. Then give the completed form to your Supervisor for him to forward for settlement.
Claims must be submitted by the end of the calendar year following the year in which the expense was incurred except that proof of claim must be submitted within 90 days of the date on which your insurance is cancelled for any reason. A separate claim form must be filled out for each member of your family for whom you are making claim. The dentist's statement of this form, or any bill supporting your claim, must show the patient's name, dates and nature of the treatment and the charge. Failure to submit your claim together with the dentist’s report or other itemized statements within the above time limit will result in the rejection of your claim.
•82
DEFERRED RETIREMENT
Letter of Intent
Should mandatory retirement at age 65 be no longer permitted by law in this province and a regular employee continues in employment beyond his normal retirement date, the following conditions shall govern such employment and be added to the Collective Agreement.
1.	The Pension to which the employee has become entitled at his normal retirement date (the “Pension”) shall be frozen as of the employee's normal retirement date as defined in the Pension Plan.
2.	The employee's Pension shall become payable as of the first day of the month immediately following the month the employee ceased to be employed with the Company or as of the first day of the month immediately preceding the employee’s seventy-first (71st) birthday whichever shall first occur (the “Pension Date”).
3.	The employee's Pension will include any escalation benefits which occur from his normal retirement date to this Pension Date.
4.	No contributions to the Pension Plan will be made after the employee has reached his normal retirement date and no service shall be credited after the aforementioned date.
5.	An employee's Pension will not be affected by any amendments made to the Pension Plan after the employee's normal retirement date.
6.	An employee's Pension benefits will be actuarially reviewed effective as at the Pension Date having regard to the employee's Pension having been deferred since his normal retirement date.
83-
7.	For purposes of calculation any minimum pension supplement, the Canada Pension Plan and Old Age Security benefits, where applicable, will be taken into account at the level in effect at the employee's normal retirement date.
a. An employee who continues in the employ of the Company after his normal retirement date as defined in the Pension Plan, shall be entitled to only the insured welfare benefits provided to employees on retirement as at his normal retirement date.
FOR THE COMPANY:	FOR THE UNION:
•84-