AGREEMENT
. BETWEEN
IMPERIALTOBACCO CANADA LIMITED AND
BAKERY. CONFECTIONERY. TOBACCO WORKERS AND GRAIN MILLERS INTERNATIONAL UNION
LOCAL 323T
00702 (08)
- 1 -INDEX
ARTICLE
PAGE
Preamble.....................................................
1.	"Employees" Defined...........................................
2.	Hours of Work.................................................
3.	Overtime......................................................
4.	Holidays......................................................
5.	Grievance Procedure...........................................
6.	Arbitration...................................................
7.	Disciplinary Procedure........................................
8.	Pregnancy/Parental Leave......................................
9.	Transfers.....................................................
1 o.	Union Executive Officers, Shop Stewards and Committee Members.
11.	Seniority.....................................................
12.	Vacations.....................................................
13.	Wages.........................................................
14.	Job Evaluation................................................
15.	Union Notices.................................................
16.	Management....................................................
17.	No Strikes or Lock-outs.......................................
18.	Membershipin Union............................................
19.	Check-off of Union Dues.......................................
20.	Validity of Agreement.........................................
21.	Bereavement Leave.............................................
22.	Employee Training Programme...................................
23.	Contracting Out...............................................
24.	Benefit Plan,.................................................
25.	Hiring Preference in Other Plants of the Company..............
26.	Technological Change..........................................
27.	Trades........................................................
28	Jury Duty.....................................................
29.	Memorandum of Agreement.......................................
30.	Union President...............................................
31.	Duration of Agreement.........................................
32.	Occupational Health &	Safety.................................
Appendix "B" Summer	Students................................
Appendix "C" Joint Industrial Relations Council...............
Appendix "D" Guelph Plant Industrial Relations Committee.....
Appendix "E" Union PresidentWage Rate........................
Appendix “F” Employees on LTD & Workers' Safety..............
insurance Declared Capable of Working
Appendix"G" L.T.D. Benefits..................................
Appendix "A" Wage Schedule and Classification................
EffectiveApril 11,2004, April 10, 2005 and April 9, 2006
Letters of Intent:
2
Letter No. Letter No. Letter No. Letter No. Letter No. Letter No. Letter No, Letter No. Letter No. Letter No.
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8 9
10
Letter No. 11 -
Scheduling of Vacations..................
Bereavement,.............................
Apprenticeship Training Programme.........
Re: clause 1.04..........................
Lay Off of employees.....................
Job Classification- Non Trades.,.........
Re: Continuous Operations Summer Period,.
Re: Banking..............................
Re: RetiringAllowance....................
Procedures'“Manual.......................
Red-Circle Agreement.....................
- 3
THIS AGREEMENT entered into on the
BETWEEN:	IMPERIAL TOBACCO CANADA LIMITED
(hereinafter called the "Company")
OF THE FIRST PART
- and -
BAKERY, CONFECTIONERY, TOBACCO WORKERS AND GRAIN MILLERS INTERNATIONAL UNION,
Local 323T.
affiliated with the American Federation of Labour-Congress of Industrial Organizations and the Canadian Labour Congress, a voluntary association, acting on behalf of the employees of Imperial Tobacco Canada Limited, in the plant at Woodlawn Road, Guelph, Ontario,
(hereinafter called the "Union")
OF THE SECOND PART
RECOGNIZING the common dependence of the Company and of its employees upon the welfare of the business as a whole; recognizing further that maintenance of goodwill and mutual respect between employers and employees can contribute greatly to the maintenance of and increase in that welfare, the parties to this contract have joined together in the following Agreement:
1.	"EMPLOYEES" DEFINED
1.01	The term "employees" as used in this agreement refers to all employees of the
Company, below the rank of Supervisor working in the plant at Woodlawn Road, Guelph, Ontario, but does not refer to office staff, Health Centre staff, laboratory technicians, security guards, stationary engineers and students.
4
1. "EMPLOYEES" DEFINED (Cont'd)
1.02	The Company recognizes the Union as the exclusive bargaining agent for the employees in the bargaining unit as defined in section 1.01 of this clause.
1.03	All references to employees in this agreement include both male and female and wherever the male gender is used, it shall be construed to include male and female employees.
1.04	Supervisors or employees above the rank of supervisor will not performwork which is normally done by "employees" as defined in paragraph 1.01 of this clause except:
In cases of emergency when a qualified employee is not available;
When engaged in training;
When working on experimental machinery along with a tradesperson;
That qualified supervisor will continue to adjust machines in a supervisory manner along with a tradesperson.
1.05	Any violation of the Collective Agreement arising out of work practices in a team, will be subject to the grievance process.
(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
2.	HOURS OF WORK
2.01
- 5
The normal work-week shall be as follows:
(A)	DAY WORKERS On shift hours
1st shift:
36 hours-4 shifts of 8 hours, Monday to Thursday inclusive, from 7:30 A.M. to 3:30 P.M. daily, including a 20 minute paid lunch period during each shift, and 1 shift of 4 hours on Friday, from 7:30 A.M. to 11:30 A.M.
2nd shift:
36 hours-4 shifts of 8 hours, Monday to Thursday inclusive, from 3:30 P.M. to 11:30 P.M., including a 20 minute paid lunch period during each shift, and 1 shift of 4 hours on Friday, from 11:30 A.M. to 3:30 P.M.
Niaht shift:
32 hours paid on the basis of 36 hours- 4 shifts of 8 hours, including a 20 minute paid lunch period during each shift.
The hours of work for the "night shift" are based on a continuous operation and will start at 11:30 P.M. Monday and end at 7:30 A.M. Friday.
(B)	NIGHT CLEANERS
36 hours- 4 nights of 9 hours including a 20 minute paid lunch period each night,
- 6 -
2.	HOURS OF WORK (Cord'd)
2.02	If it becomes necessary to change the hours fixed for lunch periods, starting and/or finishing times for departments or floors, the Union will be advised as soon as possible prior to such change going into effect and the reasons for the change will be explained to the Union.
2.03	REST PERIODS
(a)	Each employee shall be granted two (2)rest periods during their normal daily hours of work, one (1) in each half cf the shift.
(b)	If an employee works three (3) consecutive hours or more of overtime, they
shall be granted a	rest	period.
2.04	REPORT IN
Employees who report for work at their scheduled starting time and for whom no work is available, shall be paid for time worked or a minimum of three (3) hours at the applicable rate, whichever is greater, unless previously notified not to so report.
3.	OVERTIME
3.01	(A) The following	shall	be considered overtime:
(i)	Time worked in excess cf the number of scheduled daily hours.
(ii)	Time worked on holidays as specified in Article 4 of this agreement. For employees working on the night shift or night maintenance, time worked on a holiday as specified in Article 4 of this agreement shall be considered overtime if it does not form part of the regularly scheduled daily hours,
7
3. OVERTIME (Cont'd)
(jjj) Time worked on Saturdays or Sundays. For employees working on night maintenance time worked on Saturdays or Sundays shall be considered overtime if it does not form part of the regularly scheduled hours.
(B) Overtime as defined i n 3.01 (A) will be paid for at the rate of time and one-half except that:
(j) All overtime in excess of two (2) consecutive overtime hours on Monday to Saturday inclusive,
(jj)	Overtime worked on a holiday or on Sunday,
will be paid for at double time.
3,02	(A) When an employee is called in to work, at other than their regularly
scheduled hours, they shall be paid for a minimum of three (3) hours at double time, unless this work forms a continuous period with the employee's regularly scheduled working hours, in which case no minimum shall apply, and their regularly scheduled finishing time shall not be advanced to avoid payment of overtime, if such change is for one (1) day only.
- 8 -
3.	OVERTIME (Cont'd)
(B)	EMERGENCY CALL-IN
When an employee is called in to work for purposes of an emergency, at other than their regularly scheduled hours, they shall be paid for a minimum of three (3) hours at double time.
For the purpose of this clause, emergency shall be defined to mean any unforeseen event which requires immediate action to prevent the possibility of injury, loss of life or damage to buildings, property or material. It shall not be construed to mean situations such as a call-in resulting from shortage cf people or absenteeism.
3.03	Overtime shall be on a voluntary basis, however it is recognized that marketing
■ requirements are paramount and it is understood and agreed that there shall be
no concerted effort by the Union, employees, or groups cf employees to refuse overtime.
3.04	The Company will distribute overtime hours equitably among those employees who normally perform the work in accordance with overtime rules.
4.	HOLIDAYS
4.01	During the first year of this Agreement, holidays shall be:
Victoria Day (May 24, 2004),
Canada Day (July 5, 2004),
August Civic Holiday (August 2, 2004),.
Labour Day (September6, 2004),
Thanksgiving Day (October 11,2004),
Christmas Shutdown (December20, 2004 to December31, 2004), Heritage Day (February 14, 2005),
Easter Holiday (March 25, 2005). (See Procedures Manual)
4. HOLIDAYS(Conftfl
9
During the second year of this Agreement, holidays shall be:
Victoria Day (May 23, 2005),
Canada Day (July4, 2005),
August Civic Holiday (August 1,2005),
Labour Day (September, ZOOS),
Thanksgiving Day (October 10,2005),
Christmas Shutdown (December 19, 2005 to January 1,2006) Heritage Day (February 13, 2006),
Easter Holiday (April 14, 2006). (See Procedures Manual)
During the third year of this Agreement, holidays shall be:
Victoria Day (May 22, 2006),
Canada Day (July 3, 2006),
August Civic Holiday (August7, 2006),
Labour Day (September 4, 2006),
Thanksgiving Day (October 9, 2006),
Christmas Shutdown (December25, 2006 to January 5, 2007), Heritage Day (February 12,2007),
Easter Holiday (April 6, 2007). (See Procedures Manual)
10 -
4.	HOLIDAYS(Cont’d)
4.02	All employees, who work the complete scheduled hours on the work day immediately before and on the work day immediately after each of the above-named holidays shall receive pay at their current rates for the number of scheduled daily hours on that day, if the holiday falls on a Monday to Friday inclusive,
4.03	However, under special circumstances such as:
Verified illness,
Bereavement Leave,
Jury Duty,
Lay-off,
Justified lateness,
Absence for Pregnancy/Parental Leave
payment will be made to an employee who has not worked the full scheduled hours on the work day immediately before or on the work day immediately after the holiday, providing the employee is not absent on both of these days.
However, an employee who has been granted a leave of absence by the Company may be absent on both days, providing the employee works the complete scheduled hours on the work day immediately before and on the work day immediately after this leave of absence.
4.04	Employees who are away on vacation, in accordance with Clause 12 ofthis Agreement, in a week during which any of the fifteen (15) holidays occurs, shall receive an additional day’s vacation with pay at their current rates as set out in paragraph4.02 cf this clause, provided they work the complete scheduled hours on the work day immediately before and on the work day immediately after their vacation. This additional day to be taken at any time suitable to the employee and the Company.
4. HOLIDAYS (Cont’d)
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
- 11 -
4.05	For employees who would have been scheduled to work hours for which they would normally have received a shift premium or night allowance, such premium shall be included when calculating holiday pay.
4.06	Should a paid holiday occur during a period cr leave when the employee is receiving Weekly Indemnity benefits or Workers' Safety Insurance Benefits, the employee will be paid the difference between the amount received under these benefits and the amount they would have received under Clause4.02. Any employee on a Pregnancy/Parental Leave of Absence will be paid the difference between the amount received from employment insurance and the amount they would have received under clause 4.02, upon return to work.
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
5.01	Any grievance arising out of employer/employee relationshipshall be handled in
the following manner by the designated Grievance Committee:
(I)	Employee accompanied by a Steward or a member of the Grievance Committee, or Steward with the Supervisor.
(II)	Employee accompanied by a Steward or a member of the Grievance Committee, or Steward with the Supervisor and Senior Coordinator,
(111)	Grievance Committee with Plant Manager and designated staff.
(IV)
Board of Arbitration.
12
5. GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE (Cont'd)
5.02	The Company will give a decision to the employee and the Union within three (3) working days at stage (l)and within five (5) working days at stage (II). At stage (III), the Company will give a decision within ten (10) working days, but this period may be extended for a further thirty (30) working days, if both parties indicate their acceptance.
5.03	After the Supervisor has given a decision at stage (I) and it is desired that the grievance be processedto stage (II), it shall be submitted in writing to the Supervisor within seven (7) working days after the Supervisor has given a decision at stage (I).
5.04	After the Supervisor and Senior Coordinator have given their decision in writing at stage (II) and it js desired that the grievance be processed to stage (III), it shall be submitted to the Senior Coordinator within ten (10) working days after the Supervisor and Senior Coordinator have given their decision at stage (II).
5.05	(A) No grievance may be initiated as such under the Grievance Procedure if
more than forty-five (45) working days have elapsed from the date the cause of the grievance originated.
(B)	This time limitation, in cases involving the classification of new or changed occupation, shall be in accordance with the time limitation set out in Clause 14.
(C)	No time limitation shall apply when a wage payment is alleged to be inconsistent with the rate to which an employee is entitled.
(D)	Days referred to in any part of this clause start on the first working day after the submission of the grievance at any stage.
13
5. GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE (Cont'd)
5.06	The Grievance Committee shall consist of employees appointed by the Union to investigate grievances referred to it in accordance with the procedure set out above.
5.07	Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company or the Union may file a grievance which arises out of Company/Union relations, and which involves the interpretation, application or alleged violation of the agreement. Such grievances shall be submitted to stage (III) cf the Grievance Procedure.
5.08	No member df the Grievance Committee shall leave their job to investigate a grievance except with the permission of their Supervisor, which shall not be unnecessarily withheld or delayed without valid reason.
5.09	Nothing contained herein shall be deemed to prevent any individual employee from discussing any matter affecting them with their Supervisor, Senior Coordinator, Department Manager or the Manager cf the Plant Human Resources Department, or to prevent the grieving employee from accompanying the Grievance Committee at any stage of the Grievance Procedure.
ARBITRATION
14
6.01	The Board of Arbitration, to which shall be referred such grievances as may properly be referred to it in accordance with the Grievance Procedure or any question arising out of the interpretation of this Agreement or any question as to whether a matter is arbitrable, shall be constituted and governed by the following procedure:
6.02	The party wishing to submit the matter to arbitration shall, within thirty (30) days following the failure to reach a settlement at stage (III) outlined in Clauses, notify the other party, in writing, cf its intention to submit the matter to arbitration, setting out the issues to be arbitrated and informing the other party of its nominee to the Board of Arbitration.
6.03	Within ten (10) days cf receipt cf this notice, the other party shall appoint its nominee to the Board of Arbitration.
6.04	In the event of failure of one of the parties to appoint its nominee within the time limits described above, the other party may request the Minister cf Labour for the Province of Ontario to appoint a nominee.
6.05	The Chairperson shall be agreed upon by the Company and the Union nominees appointed to the Board within ten (10) days of their appointment. In the event that these persons cannot agree upon a third member within ten (10) days, the Minister of Labour of the Province of Ontario shall be requested to appoint a third member to act as Chairperson.
6.	ARBITRATION
15
6.06	The decision of the Board shall be final and binding on the parties hereto and shall be rendered within sixty (60) days after the appointment of the Chairperson.
6.07	The decision cf the Board shall be determined by majority vote. If there is no majority, the decision of the Chairperson shall prevail.
6.08	The Board of Arbitration shall not have any jurisdiction to alter or change this Agreement, or to give any decision inconsistent with the terms and provisions hereof, and shall be limited in its decision to the issues involved in the dispute as set out in accordance with paragraph 6.02 of this clause.
6.09	The expenses of the Chairperson cf the Board shall be borne equally by the Company and the Union.
7.	DISCIPLINARY PROCEDURE
7.01	Any grievance arising as a result of a disciplinary measure may be dealt with
through the Grievance Procedure.
16 -
7. DISCIPLINARY PROCEDURE (Cont’d)
7.02	When an employee is suspended or discharged as a disciplinary measure, the Union will be advised before the employee leaves the premises and, upon request, the Company will make available to the Union the facts of the case as they are known to the Company. The Union, if in possession of additional or other facts, will likewise make such facts available to the Company, An employee will not be denied the right to have a Union representative present when they are to be suspended or discharged.
7.03	In any case of suspension, discharge, demotion or denial of a promotion as a disciplinary measure before a Board of Arbitration, the Company shall endeavour to establish before the Board that such suspension, discharge, demotion or denial of a promotion as a disciplinary measure was made for just cause, and the Union will endeavour to establish that the suspension, discharge, demotion or denial of a promotion as a disciplinary measure was not for just cause or was too severe.
7.04	In the event that any employee covered by this agreement is suspended, discharged, demoted or denied a promotion as a disciplinary measure, and a Board of Arbitration, as provided in Clause 6, finds that the employee has been unfairly suspended, discharged, demoted or denied a promotion, the employee will be restored to service with seniority rights unimpaired and shall be paid the wages and granted the advantages of which they may have been deprived in the manner and to the extent indicated by the Board.
7.05	An entry made on an Employee's Personnel File shall not be used as evidence in taking disciplinary action two (2) years from the date of such entry, provided that there has been no recurrence of the same misconduct for a period of one (1) year.
17
7.	DISCIPLINARY PROCEDURE(Cont'd)
7.06	Prior to an entry being placed in an employee’s Personnel File, it must be initialed by the employee or in the case of refusal by a Union representative.
7.07	Within 5 working days of the Company and the Union making all facts cf the case available to each other, the employee and the Union will be advised cf the discipline.
7.08	Any employee absent from work must notify the Company. Failure to do so, without justification, may result in disciplinary action.
8.	PREGNANCY/PARENTAL LEAVE
8.01	Pregnant employees, in the interest of their health and safety in the workplace, are encouraged to notify the Health Centre as soon as possible.
8.02	Details and application of the leave of absence will be administered by the Human Resources Department.
8.03	The conditions of such a Pregnancy/Parental or Parental Leave of Absence shall be in accordance with the Employment Standards Act cf Ontario.
8.04	In all cases employees must notify the Human Resources Department at least two weeks prior to the leave of absence commencing.
8.05	The Company will allow two (2;paid days for parental leave (birth or adoption)
9. TRANSFERS
9.01
18
(A)	PROMOTION
When an employee begins to perform a higher rated job, they will immediately be paid the rate cf the job to which they are transferred.
(B)	DEMOTION
(i)	When an employee begins to perform a lower rated job, they will immediately be paid the rate cf the job to which they are transferred.
(ii)	Demotion shall be made for the following reasons: inefficiency, at the employee's own request or lay-off. However, in cases of lay-off, the employee's rate will only be adjusted to the rate for their new job eighty-five (85) working days after such lay-off.
(Hi) In the event cf a lay-off, displaced employees may exercise their seniority within the same or a lower group.
(jv) In the event of a demotion resulting from a change in production
requirements, the employee will maintain their rate for a period not to exceed eighty-five (85) working days commencing from the date the employee is no longer required on their job. After this period, the employee will become red-circled in accordance with the provisions of Clause 9.01 (C) (i).
19
9. TRANSFERS (Cont'd)
(C)	RED CIRCLE
(i) When an employee begins to perform a lower-rated job due to the introduction of new machinery, modificationto existing machinery or change in production methods, the employee will continue to be paid their rate until the employee refuses a promotion on the same shift to a job which is not higher than the job from which the employee was originally demoted. If the employee refuses such a transfer, their rate shall be reduced immediately upon such refusal unless such refusal is due to physical impairment, or the employee is within ten (IO) years of the normal retirement age. If several employees carrying a red circle rate are considered for a promotion, they shall be offered the job by order of seniority in accordance with Clause
11.05	but, in case of refusal, only the rate of the most junior eligible red circle employee shall be reduced,
(ii)	Night Cleaners and Day Workers who are demoted to a lower-rated
job due to the introduction of new machinery, modification to existing machinery or change in production methods, will, if there is no vacancy on their shift, be given a choice of shifts where vacancies are available and thereafter shall be treated in accordance with 9.01 (C) (i).
20
9. TRANSFERS (Cont'd)
9.02	TEMPORARY TRANSFERS
|(i)	Temporary transfer is a transfer of an employee to another job for one of the
following reasons: Sickness, Vacation, Leave of Absence or Training. A temporary transfer shall not exceed thirty (30) working days within the calendar year. These periods may be extended if both parties indicate their acceptance.
(ii) Temporary transfer will not be considered for an employee who has not performed the job within the last two (2) years. This time period shall commence from the date upon which the employee starts formal training in their new classification: via the job posting system.
(iii)	No employee shall receive training while on a temporary transfer,
(A) TEMPORARY DEMOTION
When an employee performs a lower-ratedjob on a temporary basis, their rate shall not be decreased.
(B) TEMPORARY PROMOTION
When an employee begins to perform a higher rated job on a temporary basis, for a period of one (1) continuous hour or more, they will be paid the rate <f the job to which they are transferred for each hour spent in such higher job.
(Ii) When the employee subsequently begins to perform their former job, they will immediately reassume the proper rate for that job.
(0
9. TRANSFERS (Cont'd)
21
Temporary transfers will not be considered subject to the provisions of Clause 11. However, when temporary transfers are for a period in excess of five (5) working days, the Company will endeavour to apply the provisions of Clause 11 and in cases where the provisions of Clause 11 have not been applied when it exceeds five (5) working days, the reasons will be given to the Union.
Experience gained on a job through temporary transfers will not be used to circumvent the provisions of Clause 11.05.
9.03	TRANSFER FOR TRAINING
(A)	When an employee is being trained on a job in a higher rate of pay for one (1) continuous hour or more, they will be paid a rate which is immediately below the rate of the job for which they are being trained, during the training period. An employee demoting or moving laterally will retain their previous rate until completion of training, at which time they will assume the job rate.
(B)	However, when the employee has been trained and is performing for production purposes, they shall be paid the rate for the job providedthey are performing this job for one (1) continuous hour or more.
(C)	When an employee is training another employee in an area not covered by the Training Department, they shall be paid one (1) group higherthan the job wage rate of the job for which they are training. When an employee is training another employee in an area covered by the Training Department they shall be paid the Instructors rate (group 24SP).
9. TRANSFERS (Cont'd)
- 22 -
After the band system comes into effect, when an employee is training another employee in an area not covered by the Training Department they shall be paid fifty percent (50%) of one (1) band higher than the job for which they are training. In areas that are covered by the Training Department they will be paid the instructors band rate.
The following jobs are excluded from this agreement: Instructor and Storeskeeper.
PROCEDURES REGARDING REQUEST FOR DEMOTION
(A) A request for demotion will be forwarded to the Human Resources
Department in writing. Such requests will be handled in the order in which they are received.
Eligible employees working in lower wage groups than the opening may apply for the job. Seniority will govern in the selection of applicants provided they have approximately equal ability or efficiency. The employee requesting the demotion will then exchange jobs with the selected applicant after adequate training can be arranged.
If there are no applicants for the job, the employee requesting the demotion will remain on their job and may have their job posted again three (3) months from the date ct the first posting.
It is recognized that production must be maintained and adequate training given to the employees concerned before putting the demotion into effect. Accordingly, the employee requesting the demotion will remain on their job until the necessary training is completed.
9. TRANSFERS (Cont'd)
23
(E)	Demotions for medical reasons will be excluded from the foregoing. Job
vacancies created by an employee being taken off a job for medical reasons will be posted and filled in the manner provided for under Clause 11.
10, UNION EXECUTIVE OFFICERS, SHOP STEWARDS AND COMMITTEE MEMBERS
10.01	It is recognized that Executive Officers of the Union and Members of the
Apprenticeship, Classification, Welfare and Trades Committees may require time to attend to matters related to Union/Company relations and the administration of the Collective Agreement. It is understood, however, that no Officer or Committee Member shall leave their job to attend to such matters except with the permission of the Supervisor which shall not be unnecessarily withheld or delayed without valid reason.
10.02	One (1) Steward may be elected or appointedfrom the employees for each department and one (1) Chief Steward may be elected or appointed from the employees for each shift. The Steward or member of the Grievance Committee may investigate, as provided in this Agreement, any grievance arising in the department or shift which they represent. No Steward or member of the Grievance Committee shall leave their job to investigate a grievance except with the permission of the Supervisor, which shall not be unnecessarilywithheld or delayed without valid reason,
- 24 ~
10. UNION EXECUTIVE OFFICERS. SHOP STEWARDS AND COMMITTEE MEMBERS
(Cont'd)
10.03	A list of all elected or appointed Executive Officers. Committee Members and
Stewards and any change caused by a subsequent election or appointment or by an interim appointment when a regularly elected or appointed Officer, Committee Member or Steward becomes unable to perform their duties. shall be submitted to the Company prior to such persons commencing such duties.
SENIORITY
11.01	In laying off employees not classified as Tradespersons. plant seniority shall govern and the last of these employees hired shall be the first laid off.
11.02	In laying off employees classified as Tradespersons. seniority shall govern and the last employee hired shall be the first laid off within the specific trade in which the employees are classified and in which the employee-force is being reduced.
These employees shall have the right of exercising their plant seniority before being laid off.
11.03	(A) When increasing the work force in jobs not classified in Trades. seniority
shall govern and the last of these employees laid off shall be the first recalled.
25
11. SENIORITY (Cont'cJ)
(B) When increasing the work force in jobs classified in Trades, seniority shall govern and the last of these employees laid off shall be the first recalled within the specific trade in which the employee was classified and i n which the work force is being increased.
(Q) It shall be the laid-off employees' responsibility to notify the Company of any change of address.
11.04	Employees recalled will be allowed a reasonable time to report for work,
11.05	In making transfers, except to occupations excluded by Clause 1 of this Agreement, seniority shall govern, provided the eligible employees have approximately equal ability or efficiency.
11.06	Seniority rules shall not apply to making transfers to occupations excluded by Clause 1.
11.07	Any employees who are transferred or promoted to an occupation excluded by Clause 1 cf this Agreement shall continue to accumulate seniority for a period of six (6) months and retain that seniority. However, it is agreed that no employee so transferred, upon their return to the bargaining unit, shall displace or cause any lay-off of an employee in the bargaining unit. Notwithstanding the above, seniority shall not be recognized for any employees transferred or promoted to an occupation excluded by Clause 1 of this Agreement after July 14,1972 and who are returned to the bargaining unit more than six (6) months after having been transferred or promoted to an occupation excluded by Clause 1 of this Agreement, It is understood, however, that service shall be recognized.
26
11. SENIORITY (Cont’d)
11.08	Any employees (not in excess of two (2)) who leave the employment of the Company to become officers of the Bakery, Confectionery, Tobacco Workers and Grain Millers International Union, or of its Locals, shall retain and accumulate seniority. Upon their return, they shall be entitled to a rate cf pay commensurate with the group rate of the job they held at time of departure.
11.09	Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Agreement, all employees are hired on probation and, during the probationary period, they are to be considered probationary employees only and, as such, during this period, these employees shall have no seniority rights except for the purpose of posted job vacancies and may be subject to discharge at the sole discretion of the Company without any recourse to the Grievance Procedure. Upon completion of three (3) months service, they shall, if retained, be entitled to seniority dating from date of original employment.
11.10	Seniority dates from the employee's original date of employment.
11.11	A voluntary quit or discharge for just cause breaks seniority.
11.12	Absence from work on account of an accident, disease, illness or leave of absence does not break seniority.
11.13	The plant seniority list which is posted shall be revised by the Company every three (3) months. The names of employees commencing employment on the same day shall be entered on such list in alphabetical order.
11.14	Seniority shall not be affected by a legally recognized change of name.
27
11. SENIORITY (Cont’d)
11.15	In the event that a lay-off is required, the Company will advise the Union and discuss the reasons prior to the lay-off taking place and prior to the employees being advised. The Company will endeavour to make lay-offs on a Friday,
11.16	Employeeswho are laid off, in accordance with paragraphs 11.01 or 11.02 of this clause, shall be given a minimum of one (1) weeks notice, unless otherwise required by the Employment Standards Act of Ontario.
11.17	LAY-OFF AND SEVERANCE PAY
Employeeswho are laid off, in addition to the notice given under paragraph 11.16 shall receive two (2)weeks severance pay for each full year of service and a proportional amount for any remaining part year, paid at their current rate, One (1) week’s severance pay shalt be based on current hourly rate for number of normal weekly hours.
11.18	When an employee who has received severance pay under this clause is later recalled, (or when an employee who has received severance pay under a similar clause from any other plant of the Company is hired from another plant of the Company underthe provisions of Clause 25 of this Agreement), within a time interval "shorter than the number of weeks” for which severance pay was granted, the amount cf excess severance pay paid to the employee shall be considered as an advance in pay by the company and shall be repayable by payroll deduction,
11.19	The above sections 11.16,11.17 and 11.18 shall be waived and not binding upon the Company if the lay-off is caused-by power failure, fire, flood or work stoppage in any plant of the Company,
28
11. SENIORITY (Cont'd)
JOB VACANCIES AND POSTING PROCEDURE
11.20	When there is a vacancy among occupations other than those excluded in Clause 1 of this Agreement, such a vacancy will be posted on the plant notice boards for two (2) working days for each shift, to provide employees with an opportunity to apply for such a vacancy.
11.21	Where a job vacancy occurs, an employee working within the same group may use their seniority to claim that job on a lateral transfer, or an employee in a higher job classification may use their seniority to claim that job as a demotion. However, no employee shall be permitted more than two (2) lateral transfers and two (2) demotions per year. In addition, no employee shall be permitted to post on a lateral transfer or demotion within six months of successfully completing their training on their current permanentjob. These restrictions on permanent job postings do not apply if there is an opportunity for a day job or the employee is a red circled employee within ten (10) years of normal retirement age and has been forced into a permanent job vacancy.
11.22	An employee who has been advised in writing that their performance is below standard and who has been demoted will not be eligible to apply for the same job for two (2) months. A copy of the advice will be given to the Union Steward of the department.
11.23	Employees returning to work after an absence due to sickness, accident, vacation, bereavement leave, leave of absence, or pregnancy/parental leave will be permitted to exercise their seniority for permanentjob openings which may have occurred during their absence for a period of six (6) weeks immediately before returning to work. Employees must indicate their choice within three (3) days of their return to work.
11. SENIORITY (Cont'd)
29
11.24	Job vacancies of a temporary nature will be marked "temporary" on the posting and the reasons for the temporary nature will be explained to the applicant. Employees on temporary jobs are eligible to apply for any permanentjob vacancy.
11.25	Successful temporary job applicants will be frozen upon commencement of training on, or transfer to, any job within the chain. Employees frozen on a temporary job will be paid any subsequent promotion in rate upon completion of a forty (40) working day period.
11.26	If it becomes necessary to correct an inequality in occupations between shifts, seniority will apply.
VACATIONS
12.01	The Company will grant vacations to all employees who are in the employment of the Company in the current year in accordance with the following:
12.02	Eligibility for Vacation with Pay based on accumulated service with the Company:
(a)	All employees employed between June 1 of the precedingyear and May 31 of the current year, shall be granted one (1) day for each full calendar month of service up to May 31 of the current year, (not to exceed a maximum of two (2) calendar weeks).
(b)	All hourly-paid employees with one(1) year on or before May 31 of the current year, shall be granted two (2) weeks.
All employees with the following service on or before December 31 of the current year, shall be granted vacation .asset out below:
3 years - 3 weeks 10 years - 4 weeks 15 years - 5 weeks 20 years - 6 weeks
25 years - 7 weeks
30
12. VACATIONS (Cont'd)
12.03	Payment of Vacation:
(a)	Employees employed after May 31 of the preceding year: 4% of wages earned between June 1 of the preceding year and May 31 of the current year.
(b)	Employees employed before June 1 of the preceding year: 4% cf wages earned between June 1 of the preceding year and May 31 cf the current year, or:
Hourly basis:
Current hourly rate for number of normal weekly or daily hours during each week or day of vacation,
whichever is greater.
(c)	When calculating vacation pay, night allowance or shift premium will be included if the employee would have been entitled to such allowance or premium had they been working.
12.04	Scheduling of Vacation
(A) Vacation, in excess of three (3) weeks, will be granted in the current year in such a manner and extent as to maintain maximum production. Seniority will be given consideration, but must not affect production. Such vacation to be granted not necessarily immediately before or after the vacations provided in 12.02 (a) and (b) of this clause.
31
12. VACATIONS (Cont'd)
(B) Any employee receiving benefits under the Weekly Indemnity Plan,
Workers' Safety Insurance or who is on Pregnancy/Parental Leave at the end of the current calendar year, and who has vacation outstanding, shall be granted such vacation immediately upon return to work.
12.05	Vacation Indemnity:
(a)	Indemnity Table:
A vacation indemnity is based upon wages earned and accumulated
service with the Company, and paid according to the following table:
4%, if l ess than three (3) years of accumulated service;
6%, if three (3) years but less than ten (10) years of accumulated service;
8%, iften (10) years but less than fifteen (15) years of accumulated service;
10%, if fifteen (15) years but less than twenty (20) years of accumulated service;
12%, if twenty (20) years but less than twenty-five (25) years of accumulated service;
14%, if twenty-five (25) years or more of accumulated service.
(b)	Eligibility and Payment of Vacation indemnity:
(i) Lav-off or separations except retirements:
Employee shall receive a vacation indemnity based upon their wages earned since June 1 preceding the date of their last vacation or since their most recent date of recall, whichever is the later, according to the Vacation Indemnity Table.
32
12. VACATIONS (Cont'd)
Recalled employee before June 1 of the current year:
Employee shall be granted vacation and shall receive as vacation pay a vacation indemnity based upon their wages earned between June 1 of the preceding year, or their most recent date of recall, whichever is the later, and May 31 of the current year, according to the Vacation Indemnity Table.
Recalled employee on or after June 1 of the currentvear:
Recalled employee on or after June 1 of the current year will not receive paid vacation during the current year.
12.06	Employees Retiring on Pension:
In lieu of vacation, employees retiring on pension shall receive payment at their current rate for the number of weeks or days of vacation they are entitled to, based on their service with the Company, less any amount paid for vacation taken since January I of the retirement year,
For employees retiring on pension between June 1 and December31, they shall, in addition, be entitled to a vacation indemnity according to the Vacation Indemnity Table and based upon wages earned between June 1 of the retirement year and the date of retirement.
12.07	The date of the annual plant shutdown will be posted on the Plant Notice Boards by December 1st cf the preceding year.
13. WAGES
33
13.01	The Company agrees to pay and the Union agrees to accept, during the term of this Agreement, the wage rates shown in the Wage Schedule and Classification as Appendix " A and which are made part of this Agreement and are signed for identification by the parties hereto.
13.02	Nothing stated herein shall be deemed to deprive the Company of its legal right to adjust the wage rates of individual employees within the limits of the basic scale of wage rates existing from time to time.
13.03	Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed to mean that the Company may not pay any employee or employees more than the job rate which may be payable from time to time under this Agreement.
13.04	SHIFT PREMIUM
(A)	All employees designated as "Day Workers on Shift Hours", as noted i n Clause 2 - Hours of Work in the Collective Agreement, working on the second shift, as defined i n Clause 2, will be paid a premium of 550 per hour for each hour worked, including overtime hours, but no overtime premium will be paid on this 550 per hour for overtime hours worked.
(B)	All employees designated as "Day Workers on Shift Hours1', as noted i n Clause 2 - Hours ofWork in the Collective Agreement, working on the night shift, as defined in Clause 2, will be paid a premium of 900 per hour for each hour worked, including overtime hours, but no overtime premium will be paid on this 900 per hour for overtime hours worked.
(Q) These premiums will be included when calculating Holiday Pay, Vacation Pay and Bereavement Leave Pay, in accordance with Clauses 4,12 and 21 of the Collective Agreement.
34
13, WAGES (Cont'd)
13.05	NIGHT ALLOWANCE FOR NIGHT CLEANERS
(A)	All employees designated as "Night Cleaners" as noted in Clause 2 - Hours of Work in the Collective Agreement will be paid a "Night Allowance" of
11% of their regular hourly rate for each hour worked, including overtime hours, but no overtime premium will be paid on this 11 % for overtime hours worked.
(B)	"Night Allowance" will be included when calculating Holiday Pay, Vacation Pay and Bereavement Leave Pay in accordance with Clauses4,12 and 21 of the Collective Agreement.
14. JOB EVALUATION
14.01	The job classification is shown in the Wage Schedule and Classification as Appendix "A" which is made part of this Collective Agreement and is signed for identification by the parties hereto.
14.02	All jobs are described in such a manner as to identify the duties of the job which will affect the evaluation. In a job opening the job description shall be used to describe the duties of the job.
14.03	A copy cf each job description will be provided to the Union within one (1) month.
14.04	A job description is not a job assignment and employees may be. required to do other duties which are not specified in their job description; however, any change in duties which becomes part of a job on a regular basis will be included in the job description, and the job description will be provided to the Union within one (1) month.
- 35 -
14.	JOB EVALUATION (Cont'd)
14.05	Any new or changed jobs will be evaluated under the Job Evaluation Plan and classified. The Company shall advise the Union of all such evaluations. Such evaluation will be effective on the date the new or changed job was first performed and a copy cf the job description will be given to the Union within one (1) month.
If as a result of such evaluation the rate of the job is reduced and the employee continues to perform this changed job, they will continue to be paid the former rate and will not be forced off the job because of this higher rate. Once the employee begins to perform another job, their rate will be determined in accordance with the other provisions of the collective agreement.
14.06	A review Committee cf two (2) employees will be appointed by the Union to discuss job descriptions and evaluations with the Company. If the Company and the Union are unable to agree on the description or evaluation fora new or changed job, the matter may be referred to Stage (HI) of the Grievance Procedure.
14.07	No grievance may be initiated if more than forty-five (45) working days have elapsed from the time the Union was provided with a copy of the Company's job description and evaluation and such description and evaluation has been discussed at a meeting between the Company and the Union provided that this meeting is held within three (3) months after the Union has been provided with a copy of the Company's job description and evaluation.
14.08	The provisions cf 14.02,14.03,14.04,14.05,14.06 and 14.07 shall not apply to those jobs classified as trades jobs.
15.	UNION NOTICES ..
15.01	Union notices will be posted on the Union notice boards.
MANAGEMENT
36
16.01	The management and operation of the business, the employment, discharging, direction and promotion of employees shall be vested exclusively in the Company; however, the Company can only exercise these rights insofar as they do not conflict with the rights and privileges cf the employees which have been acquired under this Collective Labour Agreement or the Law,
17.	NO STRIKES OR LOCK-OUTS
17.01	There shall be no strikes, slowdowns or lock-outs, either complete or partial, during the term of this Agreement.
18.	MEMBERSHIP IN UNION
18.01	All employees who are members of the Union or hereafter become members shall remain members during the term of this Agreement as a condition of employment.
18.02	All new employees hereafter employed, upon completion cf a two (2) month probationary period, shall become members and remain members during the term cf this Agreement as a condition of employment.
19.	CHECK-OFF OF UNION DUES
19.01	The Company, upon receipt cf written authorization from any of its employees, in the form agreed to between the Company and the Union, will deduct, and continue to deduct until the termination of this Agreement, from such employees' pay earned for each week, as a condition of employment, the sum authorized by the employees for payment of Union dues.
37
19.	CHECK-OFF OF UNION DUES (Cont’d)
19.02	A cheque in favour of Local 323T, Bakery, Confectionery, Tobacco Workers and Grain Millers International Union, for the amount of dues so collected will be forwarded to the Financial Secretary of Local 323T on or before the end of the month in which the deductions are made.
20.	VALIDITY OF AGREEMENT
20.01	Any provision in this Agreement which is contrary to law or regulation in force from time to time shall have no force or effect, but this Agreement shall not be invalid by reason of any such provision.
21.	BEREAVEMENT LEAVE (See Bereavement Letter of Intent)
21.01	In the event of the death of an employee's father (step), mother (step), spouse or child (step) and the employee furnishes reasonable proof of such death to the Human Resources Department, such employee will be granted a reasonable leave of absence, with pay at their current rate not to exceed one (1) normal work week.
21.02	In the event of the death cf an employee's mother-in-law, father-in-law, brother, sister or grandchildren and the employee furnishes reasonable proof of such death to the Human Resources Department, such employee shall be granted a reasonable leave of absence, with pay at their current rate not to exceed three (3) normal working days.
21.03	In the event of the death of an employee's.Grandparents, Son-in-Law, Daughter-in-Law, Brother-in-Law or Sister-in-Law, and the employee furnishes reasonable proof of such death to the Human Resources Department, they shall be granted a reasonable leave of absence, with pay, at their current rate not to exceed two (2) normal working days.
38
21.	BEREAVEMENT LEAVE (Cont'd)
21.04	In the event of the death of an employee's spouse's grandparents and the employee furnishes reasonable proof of such death to the Human Resources Department, such employee will be granted a reasonable leave of absence, with pay at their current rate not to exceed one (1) normal working day.
21.05	Should a paid holiday occur during a period of leave with pay granted under this clause, the employee shall not receive pay for such holiday under Clause 4 of this Agreement.
21.06	When calculating pay for bereavement leave, "Night Allowance" or "Shift Premium" will be included if the employee would have been entitled to such night allowance or shift premium had they been working.
21.07	Employees who are away on vacation in accordance with Article 12 of this Agreement, in a week during which a bereavement occurs as defined in this Article, will, provided they advise the Company, continue their vacation for a period cf time equivalent to the number of days taken as bereavement leave during such vacation.
22. EMPLOYEE TRAINING PROGRAMME
22.01	The Company recognizes the importance of providing training opportunities for all employees so that they can handle technological changes and/or improve their skills and advance to jobs of greater responsibility and higher pay.
22.02	Because of changing conditions and in particular technological changes, new approaches to and expansion cf employee training are required.
- 39 -
22.	EMPLOYEETRAINING PROGRAMME(Cont'cO
This being recognized, the Company undertakes to continue a training programme in the following areas:
1.	Apprenticeship for skilled trades;
2.	Training for technological changes;
3.	Training for up-grading;
4.	Educational assistance to increase formal education.
The purpose of this training programme is to meet the training needs and, as these needs change, the programme may have to be modified.
23.	CONTRACTING OUT
23.01	The Company intends to maintain its policy of not using outside contractors to replace bargaining unit employees unless it would be deemed essential by the Company to do so. However, it is recognized by the Union and the employees that the Company must continue its present practice of having outside contractors to perform certain work. The Company undertakes to keep the Union informed about this work being performed by outside contractors.
If it is deemed essential by the Company to have outside contractors to perform work which is now performed by bargaining unit employees, or is of a type that has not been done before, or if the present practice is materially increased and it would result in bargaining unit employees being displaced, the Union will be advised prior to such decision being implemented and will be consulted in determining how to minimize the effects on the employees. The Union will be given a minimum of five (5) working days to comment on the proposed decision and the Company undertakes to give appropriate weight to those comments prior to implementing the decision.
22.03
22.04
Nevertheless, employees will not be laid off as a result of this practice.
24.	BENEFIT PLAN
24.01
24.02
40
The Company agrees to continue in effect, during the term of this Agreement, the following benefit plans:
a)	Medical Assistance Plan,
b)	Group Life Insurance Plan,
c)	Weekly Indemnity Plan,
Dental Plan,
e)	Long Term Disability Insurance	Plan,
f)	Supplemental Workers' Safety Insurance Allowance.
While the Imasco Pension Plan also forms part of the collective agreement, it is understood and agreed that it shall not be subject to the grievance procedure.
In the absence of government regulations necessitating changes in any or all of such plans, there will be no benefit reductions or contribution increases under these plans for the eligible employees during the term of this Agreement.
In the event that the Government a f Ontario would revert to the system of premium payment for funding of its Health Insurance Plan, the Company agrees to pay the Ontario Health Insurance Plan (O.H,I.P.) premiums on behalf of the employees, However, this subsidy will be decreased if the O.H. I. P. premiumis decreased, and the resulting savings will not be passed on to the employees in any form.
- 41 -
25.	HIRING PREFERENCE IN OTHER PLANTS OF THE COMPANY
25.01	In the event that employees are laid off at one cf the Company plants and apply to another plant for employment in the event they hire new employees, preference shall be given to these employees provided they meet the hiring qualifications of the employing plant. The regular age and educational requirements shall be waived in cases of this nature.
Seniority shall not be recognized at the new plant; however, service shall be recognized.
If an employee is hired at another plant, their name shall be maintained on the recall list of the plant from which the employee has been laid off, until such time as recalled to their former plant. If such recall is refused, their name shall be removed from the recall list.
25.02	Ifthe Company opens a new plant in Ontario or expands its existing plant in Aylmer for the purpose cf manufacturing tobacco products, qualified employees in the Guelph plant will be offered employment by seniority, before new employees are hired from outside and their seniority in the new plant shall be their seniority date in the Guelph Plant. Service with the Company shall be recognizedat the new location.
26.	TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE
The purpose of this clause is to provide procedures for dealing with the effects of technological changes on the employees. It is understood, however, that this clause is not intended to replace or supersede any clause under the present Agreement.
DEFINITION
For the purpose of this clause, "technological changes" means the introduction of machinery or techniques which result in greater output per employee-hour.
42
26. TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE (Confd)
JOINT COMMITTEE
In order to study the most appropriate way to cushion the effects of technological changes on the employees, it is agreed to establish a Joint Committee consisting of representatives from Head Office and Plant Management as well as representatives from the International and the Local Union. There is nothing, however, to prevent the Committee from consulting with outside experts who are specialists on the particular subject under discussion or to call upon any employees of the Company for more information.
Because technological changes can affect employees in many different ways depending upon, among other factors, the number involved, length of service, skills, education, age and market requirements, each instance will require to be studied on its own merits by the Joint Committee and each may require a different combination of measures to ensure that the welfare ofthe employees and of the Company is adequately protected.
PROCEDURES
The Company will not lay off employees as a result of the introduction of technological changes and in the event that the introduction of technological changes would generate a surplus of employees in excess of plant requirements, the Joint Committee shall consider, .among other alternatives,
43
26. TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE (Cont'd)
a)	Retraining;
b)	Transfer on a voluntary basis to otherjobs within the Company;
c)	Attrition;
d)	Voluntary termination of employment with an indemnity which will be based on the best formula agreed to between the Company and the Union, taking into consideration the characteristics of the group of employees affected as well as the settlements negotiated in the Tobacco Industry;
as a means to accommodate the number of employees affected.
This Committee will go into action when advised by the Local Union or Plant Management that a problem exists as a result of a decision to introduce technological changes and will make recommendationsas are agreed upon to the Company and inform the Local Union.
There is nothing, however, to prevent the Committee from discussing the overall effects of technological changes on employees so that the Committee can make recommendations that will be helpful in dealing with specific problems as they arise.
In the event that the Company decides to close the Guelph Plant, it is agreed that the Joint Committee will meet in order to study the most appropriate ways to cushion the effects on the employees and to discuss the terms and provisions related to the termination of employment, possibility of other employment within the Company, severance pay and other related benefits which shall be Comparable to settlements already established in the Tobacco Industry.
44 -
26. TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE (Cont'd)
PRIOR NOTICE
The Company will endeavour to advise the Local Union of major technological changes affecting employees at least six (6) months prior to their introduction, but in any event the Local Union shall be advised of any technological changes affecting employees not less than thirty (30) days before their introduction.
27.	TRADES
27.01	Trades for the purpose of this Agreement shall cover all employees employed as Tradespersons or who have successfully completed the Apprenticeship Programme within the Guelph Plant.
27.02	The Company agrees to recognize representativesfrom the Tradespersons to be designatedfrom time to time by the Union for the purpose of discussions with the Company relating to matters affecting the Tradespersons and coming under the provisions of this Collective Agreement.
27.03	There shall be a Grievance Committee for Trades consisting of two (2)
Tradespersons appointed by the Union to investigate grievances referred to it in accordance with the procedure set out in Article 5.
45
27. TRADES (Cont'd)
27.04 JOB EVALUATION
i)	All jobs are described in such a manner as to identify the duties of the job which will affect the evaluation. In a job opening the job description shall be used to describe the duties of the job.
ii)	A copy of each job descriptionwill be providedtothe Union within one (1) month.
iii)	A job description is not a job assignment and employees may be required to do other duties which are not specified in their job description; however, any change in duties which becomes part of a job on a regular basis will be included in the job description, and the job description will be provided to the Union within one (1) month.
iv)	A Review Committee of up to four (4) tradespersons each representing a different trade, will be appointed by the Union to discuss new or changed trades' job descriptions and evaluations with the Company. If the Company and the Union are unable to agree on the description or evaluation for a new or changed job, the matter may be referred to Stage (111) of the Grievance Procedure.
46
27. TRADES (Cont'd)
v)	No grievance may be initiated if more than forty-five (45) working days have elapsed from the time the Union was provided with a copy of the Company's job description and evaluation and such description and evaluation have been discussed at a meeting between the Company and the Union provided that this meeting is held within three (3) months after the Union has been provided with a copy of the Company's job description and evaluation.
27.05	Trades seniority shall date from original date (f employment as a Tradesperson or upon successful completion of an Apprenticeship Programme in the Guelph Plant.
Notwithstandingthe above, upon successful completion of an Apprenticeship Programme in the Guelph Plant, Trades Seniority shall date from:
(a) The date the employee started on an Apprenticeship Programme, for all employees starting on an Apprenticeship Programme after July 15,1974
(b)	(i) July 15, 1974, for all employees who started on an Apprenticeship
Programme in 1971.
47
27. TRADES (Cont'd)
(jj) July 16, 1974, for all employees who started on an Apprenticeship Programme in 1972.
July 17, 1974, for all Programme in 1973,
employees who started on an Apprenticeship
27.06	In laying off employees classified as Tradespersons, seniority shall govern and the last employee hired shall be the first laid off within the specific trade in which the employees are classified and in which the employee force is being reduced.
These employees shall have the right of exercising their plant seniority before being laid off.
27.07	When increasing the work force in jobs classified in Trades, seniority shall govern and the last of these employees laid off shall be the first recalled within the specific trade in which the employee was classifiedand in which the work force is being increased,
27.08	The Tradespersons' seniority list will be posted and revised by the Company every three (3) months.
27.09	The representatives of the Tradespersons will be informed on matters relating to the Apprenticeship Programme.
48
27. TRADES (Cont'd)
27.10	If it becomes necessary to correct an inequality in occupations between shifts, seniority shall apply. However, in the event of an opening in an occupation on 'C' Shift, the opening will be posted. If there are no applicants, the junior employee in the category will be obligated to accept the transfer.
27.11	Except in special medical circumstances, those employees working in occupations classified as "Trades" under Appendix "A" of this Collective Agreement may not apply for job vacancies which occur in "non-trades occupations".
27.12	In the event of a lay-off, the provisionsof 9.01 (B) (iii) shall not apply to employees classified as tradespersons and the junior employee within the specific trade shall be the one displaced.
27.13	TRANSFER FOR TRAINING
(A)	When an employee is being trained on a job in a higher rate of pay for one (1) continuous hour or more, they will be paid an additional rate equivalent to 75% of the difference of the higher rate and the rate of their previous job, during the training period.
(B)	However, when the employee has been trained and is performing for production purposes, they shall be paid the rate for the job provided they are performing this job for one (1) continuous hour or more.
JURY DUTY
49 -
28.01	When an employee is summoned to serve as a juror or witness in legal
proceedings, they will be granted a leave of absence and upon presentation of a statement from the Court showing the amount received from the Court, they will be paid the difference between the regular wages they would have earned had they been working and the amount received from the Court.
29. MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
29.01	The Memorandums of Agreement identified as Appendix "B", "C", "D", "E", "F",
and "G", and which are signed for identification by the parties hereto, form part of the Collective Agreement.
30. UNION PRESIDENT
30.01	In addition to maintaining the regular wages of the Union President while in the plant, the President will also have regular wages maintained for meetings outside the Company on matters directly related to the administration of the Collective Agreement.
DURATION OF AGREEMENT
50 -
31.01	This Agreement shall be in force and effect from the time that it is executed up to and including April 14, 2007, and, unless written notice to the contrary is given by either party to the other within a period of time which shall not be more than ninety (90) days prior to the termination hereof, this Agreement shall continue thereafter from year to year.
32. OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH & SAFETY
32.01	The Company recognizes its obligation to provide a healthy and safe working environment for all employees and the Union recognizes its obligation to cooperate in maintaining and improving a healthy and safe working environment. The parties agree to use their best efforts jointly to achieve these objectives.
32.02	The Company and Union agree to have an Occupational Health and Safety Committee made up of six (6) regular members, three (3) of whom represent the Company and three (3) of whom represent the Union, as well as up to six (6) temporary members, three (3) of whom represent the Company and three (3) of whom represent the Union.
32.03	The Safety Committee should meet at least once a month, or more often if necessary, to review health and safety conditions within the plant and to make recommendations as are deemed necessary or desirable.
51 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto have executed this Agreement on
the ,kvi*7 } it
IN THF PRFSFNCF OF:	IMPERIAL TOBACCO CANADA LIMITED
BAKERY, CONFECTIONERY, TOBACCO WORKERS AND GRAIN MILLERS INTERNATIONAL UNION, LOCAL
52
APPENDIX "B"
This memorandum forms oart of the Collective Agreement signed between the Company and
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT BETWEEN
IMPERIAL TOBACCO CANADA LIMITED ANn
BAKERY, CONFECTIONERY, TOBACCO WORKERS AND GRAIN MILLERS INTERNATIONAL UNION LOCAL 323T
It is understood and agreed that students are hired on a temporary basis and that at the end of their work term their employment with the Company will be terminated.
It is further understood and agreed that students will be paid at a rate of 75% of Group 4 and that students may be utilizedto assist employees by performing any duties that are part cf, but not a whole job as defined by the job description system.
NotwithstandingArticle 1 of the Collective Agreement, the Company hereby confirms its intent of applying the following articles of the Collective Agreement to students: Hours of Work, Overtime, Holidays, and Wage Schedule and Classification.
Notwithstanding Articles 18 and 19 of the Collective Agreement, the Company, upon receipt of written authorization in the form agreed to between the Company and Union, will deduct from the pay earned each week by students an amount equal to the Union Dues, which will be forwarded to the Financial Secretary of Local 323T.
the Union on the
and expiring on April 14, 2007,
SUMMER STUDENTS
IN THE PRESENCE OF:
53
IMPERIAL TOBACCO CANADA LIMITED
BAKERY, CONFECTIONERY, TOBACCO WORKERS AND GRAIN MILLERS INTERNATIONAL UNION, LOCAL 3231
- 54 -
APPENDIX "C"
This memorandum forms part of the Collective Agreement signed between the Company and
the Union on the	\	5	anc* exP'r'n9 on April 20°7
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT BETWEEN
IMPERIAL TOBACCO CANADA LIMITED
AMD
BAKERY, CONFECTIONERY, TOBACCO WORKERS AND GRAIN MILLERS INTERNATIONAL UNION LOCAL 323T
IMPERIAL TOBACCO
JOINT INDUSTRIAL RELATIONS COUNCIL
PURPOSE:
Recognizing the common dependence of the Company and of its employees upon the welfare of the business as a whole; recognizing further that maintenance cf goodwill and mutual respect between employers and employees can Contribute greatly to the maintenance cf and increase in that welfare, the parties to this contract have agreed to form the Imperial Tobacco Joint Industrial Relations Council for the purpose of maintaining an ongoing viable dialogue on matters of mutual interest and concern.
It is understood, however, that this Memorandum of Agreement is not intended to replace or supersede any clause under the present Agreement.
COUNCIL MEMBERS:
The council is composed of the following members:
Union Representatives:
The Presidents, Vice-presidents and Trades Chairperson (if applicable) of each Imperial Tobacco local and representatives from the International Union.
55
Company Representatives:
The Plant Managers and Plant Human Resources Managers from each plant, representatives from the Industrial Relations Division and the Vice-Presidents of Human Resources and Operations.
Sub-Committees:
The council may, from time to time, at its discretion, establish sub-committees from among its members to examine various issues which are in keeping with its overall purpose. These sub-committees, upon completion of their assignments, will be expected to report their findings and recommendations, if any, to the council as a whole.
MEETINGS:
1)	Frequency:
It is agreed that the council will meet once a year. Additional meetings may be scheduled by mutual consent, if deemed necessary.
2)	Expenses:
The normal expenses incurred by members as a result of council meetings will be paid by the Company.
3)	Agendas:
It is agreed that the council will limit its discussions to items in keeping with the overall purpose and which are of common interest and concern to all locations. It is further agreed that, at least two weeks prior to a council meeting, the parties will endeavour to apprise one and another of topics which they will wish to discuss.
56
IN THE PRESENCE OF:
IMPERIAL TOBACCO CANADA LIMITED
BAKERY, CONFECTIONERY, TOBACCO WORKERS AND GRAIN MILLERS INTERNATIONAL UNION, LOCAL 323T
By:
- 57 -
APPENDIX "D"
This memorandum forms part of the Collective Agreement signed between the Company and
the Uniononthe \	and expiring on April 14, 2007.
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
IMPERIAL TOBACCO CANADA LIMITED
' AND
BAKERY, CONFECTIONERY, TOBACCO WORKERS AND GRAIN MILLERS INTERNATIONAL UNION LOCAL 323T
GUELPH PLANT
INDUSTRIAL RELATIONS COMMITTEE
PURPOSE:
Recognizingthe common dependence of the Company and of its employees upon the welfare of the business as a whole; recognizing further that maintenance cf goodwill and mutual respect between employers and employees can contribute greatly to the maintenance f and increase in that welfare, the parties to this contract have agreed to form the Guelph Plant Industrial Relations Committee for the purpose of discussing matters of mutual interest and concern regarding the Guelph Plant.
It is understood, however, that this Memorandum of Agreement is not intended to replace or supersede any clause under the present agreement.
COMMITTEE MEMBERS:
58 -
The committee is composed of the following members:
Union Representatives:
The local Union executive or members thereof, as determined from time to time by the President.
Company Representatives:
The Plant Manager, Plant Human Resources Manager and other senior plant officials, as determined from time to time by the Plant Manager,
MEETINGS:
1)	Frequency:
The committee will meet three times per year. The number of meetings may be changed if it is deemed necessary by the parties.
2)	Agenda:
The parties agree that they will endeavour to advise one and another of the topics which they wish to discuss prior to the meeting, in order to provide sufficient time for preparation.
59
IN THE PRESENCE OF:	IMPERIAL TOBACCO CANADA LIMITED
BAKERY, CONFECTIONERY, TOBACCO WORKERS AND GRAIN MILLERS INTERNATIONAL UNION, LOCAL 3231
By:
- 60 -
APPENDIX "E"
This memorandum forms part of the Collective Agreement signed between the Company and
the Uniononthe	^ ,	and expiring on April 14, 2007.
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT BETWEEN
IMPERIAL TOBACCO CANADA LIMITED AND
BAKERY, CONFECTIONERY, TOBACCO WORKERS AND GRAIN MILLERS INTERNATIONAL UNION LOCAL 323T
UNION PRESIDENT WAGE RATE
It is understood and agreed to by the parties that the intent of this memorandum is to standardize the pay rate and overtime levels of the Union President.
This memorandum confirms that the parties agree that the Union President will receive the top wage rate for Local 323T and will be compensated for eight (8) hours of overtime per week as per the provisions outlined in the Collective Agreement.
61
IN THE PRESENCE OF:
IMPERIAL TOBACCO CANADA LIMITED
BAKERY, CONFECTIONERY, TOBACCO WORKERS AND GRAIN MILLERS INTERNATIONAL UNION, LOCAL 3231
- 62 -
APPENDIX "F
This memorandum forms _	signed between the Company
the Union on the	) <Xv\ W/H7 5	^	and expiring on April 14,
and
2007.
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT BETWEEN
IMPERIAL TOBACCO CANADA LIMITED and
BAKERY. CONFECTIONERY, TOBACCO WORKERS AND GRAIN MILLERS INTERNATIONAL UNION LOCAL 323T
EMPLOYEESON L.T.D, & WORKERS SAFETY INSURANCE DECLARED CAPABLE OF WORKING
This will serve to confirm the understanding reached during negotiations regarding persons on Long Term Disability and Workers' Safety Insurance.
Employees in the employment of the Company on October 20,1984 who receive benefits from the Long Term Disability Plan and employees in the employment of the Company on Septembers, 1990 who receive benefits from Workers' Safety Insurance and are subsequently determined, on the basis cf medical information, to be capable of working will be provided with a job at Imperial Tobacco.
The above paragraph will also apply to all new employees upon completion cF five (5) years service who subsequently become eligible for Long Term Disability or Workers' Safety Insurance.
- 63 -
IN THE PRESENCE OF:	IMPERIAL TOBACCO CANADA LIMITED
BAKERY, CONFECTIONERY. TOBACCO WORKERS AND GRAIN MILLERS INTERNATIONAL UNION, LOCAL
- 64 -
APPENDIX "G"
This memorandum forms the Union on the
part of the Collective Agreement signed between the company and'
^ &nV\vv3<-j ri^ , "\0 0 5	and expiring on April 14, 2007.
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT BETWEEN
IMPERIAL TOBACCO CANADA LIMITED AND
BAKERY. CONFECTIONERY, TOBACCO WORKERS AND GRAIN MILLERS INTERNATIONAL UNION LOCAL323T
BENEFITS
This will serve to confirm the understanding between the Company and the Union that employees receiving benefits underthe Long Term Disability Plan, introduced in July cf 1977, will have their benefit level maintained at 70% of the current wage schedule, effective January 1,2000.
The attached document is an explanation of how the "final average remuneration" would be established for an employee who is a member of the Imasco Pension Plan and who has received benefits from the Long Term Disability Plan during the five years immediately prior to attaining age 65.
65
FAR. AT TERMINATION OF L.T.D.
Traditionally an employee has been assumed to earn normal base wage or salary while on LongTerm Disability. Therefore after five full years on LongTerm DisabilityF.A.R. would be equal to the base wage or salary the employee was earning at the date cf becoming disabled.
Under the new arrangement each time an augmentation is granted to pensioners the earnings of an individual on Long Term Disability will be deemed to have been augmented at the same time and by the same percentage as the pension augmentation. Earnings of an individual on L.T.D. will therefore be deemed to increase on the same date.
66
IN THE PRESENCE OF:
IMPERIAL TOBACCO CANADA LIMITED
BAKERY, CONFECTIONERY, TOBACCO WORKERS AND GRAIN MILLERS INTERNATIONAL UNION. LOCAL
323T
By:
- 67 -
APPENDIX "A"
WAGE SCHEDULE AND CLASSIFICATION
HOURLY BASIS
GROUP 1 GROUP2
New employee Start Rate
GROUP3
GROUP4
GROUP5
GROUP6
Cleaner
Cleaner- Days
General Help/Waste Table
GROUP7
GROUP8
GROUP9
Project Monitor
GROUP 10
Dilution/Sample Collector
36 HOUR WEEK RATE 11/4/2004	10/4/2005	9/4/2006
$30.85	$31.78	$32.73
$31.20	$32.14	$33.10
Making & Packing $31.69 $32.05 $32.49 $32.86
Maintenance Maintenance Making & Packing
$33.31
$33.73
$34.25
$32.64	$33.62
$33.01	$34.00
$33.46	$34.46
$33.85	$34.87
$34.31	$35.34
$34.74	$35.78
$35.28	$36.34
Human Resources
$34.57	$35.61	$36.68
Quality Assurance
- 68 -
APPENDIX "A"
WAGE SCHEDULE AND CLASSIFICATION fCont'ctt
HOURLY BASIS
GROUP 11
Inspector- Cigarettes & Packages Coal Retention Tester
GROUP 12
Cleaner - Air Conditioning GROUP 13
Night Cleaner Class 1 Infestation/Housekeeping Monitor OperatorC.T.S. Input
GROUP 14
Quality Service Utility Primary GROUP 15
Operator- Ripping Machine Making & Packing Material Support Separator Operator/Dust Collector Quality Service Utility Secondary
GROUP 16
Making & Packing Process Support
HOUR WEEK RATE
11/4/2004 10/4/2005	9/4/2006
$35.10	$36.15	$37.23
Quality Services Quality Services
$35.56	$36.63	$37.73
Maintenance
$36.05	$37.13	$38.24
Night Cleaning Quality Services Primary
$36.46	$37.55	$38.68
Primary
$36.92	$38.03	$39.17
Primary
Making & Packing Primary
Quality Services
$37.34	$38.46	$39.61
Making & Packing
- 69 -
APPENDIX "A"
WAGE SCHEDULE AND CLASSIFICATION (Cont'd)
HOURLY BASIS	36 HOUR WEEK RATE
11/4/2004	10/4/2005	9/4/2006
GROUP 17
Quality Service Material Inspector Adhesive Attendant Chauffeur
GROUP 18
$37.75	$38.88
Quality Service Wrapping Stock Mechanical Stores
$38.16	$39.30
$40.05
$40.48
Operator- Fork Lift Truck - CTS Tender- High Speed Rod Maker KDF2
Operator- Pneumatic Feed System General Help
Operator- Case Sealer/Coder Operator- FLT & Tobacco Feeder
Primary
Rod Room Primary Maintenance Rod Room Primary
GROUP 19
$38.73
$39.89
$41.09
Stores Attendant
Operator- FLT -Train/Tugger
Operator Case Palletizing System
Mechanical Stores
Primary
Shipping
GROUP 20
Porter Rework Filter Process Operator
$39.22
Making & Packing Rod Room
$40.40
$41.61
- 70 -
APPENDIX "A"
WAGE SCHEDULE AND CLASSIFICATION (Cont'd)
HOURLY BASIS
GROUP 21
Stock Attendant - Tobacco Warehouse
Wrapping Material Attendant
Stock Attendant
Stock Handler Wrapping Material
ReplacementWorker - Shipping, Wrapping & dt Tobacco Storage
Rework Porter/Case Sealer -Coder Relief
GROUP 22
Operator- Menthol Machine
Tender- Module (MarkIX -Oscar Focke S & S Packer)
Stores Attendant & Receiver
Lubricator& P.M. Services
GROUP 22S
Making & Packing Process Operator
GROUP23
Utility Person - Shipping & Wrapping Material
36 HOUR WEEK 1/4/2004	10/4/2005
$39.78	$40.97
Primary
Wrapping Stock Shipping Wrapping Stock
Primary
Rod Room
$40.16	$41.36
Wrapping Stock
Making & Packing Mechanical Stores Maintenance
$41.38	$42.62
Making & Packing
$40.67	$41.89
Shipping & Wrapping Stock
RATE
9/4/2006
$42.20
$42.60
$43.90
$43.15
- 71 -
APPENDIX "A"
WAGE SCHEDULE AND CLASSIFICATION (Cont'd)
HOURLY BASIS	36 HOURWEEKRATE
11/4/2004	D/4/2005	9/4/2006
GROUP 24	$41.17	$42.41	$43.68
Utility & Relief Worker	Primary
Storeskeeper	Mechanical	Stores
GROUP 24SP	$42.37	$43.64	$44.95
Instructor	Training
- 72 -
APPENDIX "A"
WAGE SCHEDULE AND CLASSIFICATION (Cont'd)
HOURLY BASIS
HOUR WEEK RATE
11/4/2004 10/4/2005	9/4/2006
TRADES
BAND "A"
Start:	$46.36	$47.75
One Year Rate:	$48.11	$49.55
Two Year Rate:	$49.85	$51.35
$49.1 a $51.04 $52 89
Building Maintenance - Carpenter Welder - Metal Worker Pipefitter- Plumber Millwright- Mechanic
BANDI,B"
Start:	$47.33	$48.75
One Year Rate:	$49.12	$50.59
Two Year Rate:	$50.89	$52.42
$50.21
$52.11
$53.99
Feeder Group - Machine Shop Making & Packing Mechanical Support KQF/CS Mechanical Support PM Service Mechanic
BAND"C"
Start:	$47.41	$48.83
One Year Rate:	$49.20	$50.68
Two Year Rate:	$51.01	$52.54
$50.29
$52.20
$54.12
Electrical - General Electrical - Secondary
73
IN THE PRESENCE OF:
IMPERIAL TOBACCO CANADA LIMITED
BAKERY, CONFECTIONERY, TOBACCO WORKERS AND GRAIN MILLERS INTERNATIONAL UNION, LOCAL
Imperial Tobacco
Canada
LETTER# 1	107 Woodlawn Road West
Guelph, Ontario N1H1B4
Canada
Tel. (51 9) 824-4000 Fax (519) 824-2646 www.imperialtobaccocanada.com
Mr. RonCostigan,
President, Local 323T,
Bakery, Confectionery, Tobacco Workers and Grain Millers international Union, Guelph, Ontario.
Dear Mr. Costigan
This letter will serve to confirm the discussions between the Company and Union regarding the scheduling of vacations for employees who are entitled to less than three (3)weeks vacation and who are required to work for a period of time during the summer shutdown period.
The Company will make every reasonable effort to schedule such vacations in consecutive weeks and/or days as the case may be.
in the unlikely event that there is a problem with the scheduling of these vacations the Company will meet with the Union to discuss the problem prior to finalizing the decision.
Yours truly,
<^KS
P. Hodgins,
Plant Manager.
}&y\wH 7,0
Imperial Tobacco Canada Limited
TOBACCO
Canada
LETTER#2
107 Woodlawn Road West
Guelph, Ontario N1H1B4
Canada
Tel. (519) 824-4000 Fax (519) 824-2646 www.imperialtobaccocanada.com
Mr. RonCostigan,
President, Local 323T,
Bakery, Confectionery, Tobacco Workers and Grain Millers International Union,
Guelph, Ontario.
Dear Mr. Costigan:
Bereavement
This letter will serve to confirm the understanding reached between the Company and the Union regarding the definition cf parental/same sex relationships.
Father Mother Step Father Step Mother Mother-in-Law Father-in-Law Spouse Child
Step Child
Current spouse’sfather's wife Current spouse's mother's husband Current spouse Natural/Adopted Current spouse's children
Imperial Tobacco Canada Limited
TOBACCO
Canada
-2-
Brother
Sister
Son-in-Law
Daughter-in Law
Grandparents
Grandchildren
Brother-in-Law
Sister-in-Law
Spouse's Grandparents Yours truly,
Natural/Adopted/Step
Natural/Adopted/Step
Natural/Adopted/Step/daughter's husband
Current spouse's Natural/Adopted/Step/ daughter's husband
Natural/Adopted/Step/son's wife
Current spouse's Natural/Adopted/Step/ son's wife
Your father's parents
Your mother's parents
Natural/Adopted children <f son or daughter
Current spouse's brother
Current spouse's sister's husband
Sister's current spouse
Current spouse's sister
Current spouse's brother's wife
Brother's current spouse.
Current spouse's Grandparents
Imperial Tobacco
Canada
LETTER#3
107 Wood lawn Road West
Guelph, Ontario N1H 1B4
Canada
Tel. (519) 824-4000 Fax (51 9) 824-2646 www.imperialtobaccocanada.com
Mr. RonCostigan,
President, Local 323T,
Bakery, Confectionery, Tobacco Workers and Grain Millers International Union, Guelph, Ontario.
DearMr. Costigan:
Apprenticeship Training Programme
This letter will serve to confirm the discussion held on May 6th, 1982 regarding the Apprenticeship Training Programme where the Company reconfirmed its commitment to apprenticeship training in the Guelph plant.
The purpose of the programme is to provide an opportunity to some of the employees to become qualified tradespersons while at the same time to provide an additional source of skilled tradespersons to meet the Company's manpower requirements. The training of skilled tradespersons through the Apprenticeship Programme and the hiring of tradespersonsfrom outside will continue to ensure the availability of a highly qualified workforce able to meet the technological requirements at Imperial Tobacco.
Manpower planning for future need is done annually, and in recent years the forecasted need for apprenticeship training has been based solely on the numbers of tradespersons retiring at age sixty-five. The Company agreed at this meeting, that in the future it will also take into consideration other factors such as promotion to other occupations within the Company when determining the need for apprenticeship training. This will, in some years, provide additional apprenticeship opportunities. It was also agreed that one Apprenticeship Committee Meeting each year would be reserved for the purpose of reviewing the apprenticeship needs for the upcoming year.
Imperial Tobacco Canada Limited
Imperial Tobacco
Canada
2
The Company acknowledged the importance of the Apprenticeship Committee. It was agreed that the committee would play a more active role and would meet on a regular basis in the future. The role should include the selection of apprentices, review of the progress of apprentices while on the programme and the monitoring of the various, programmes to ensure that they continue to meet government standards and current skill requirements.
Yours truly,
P. Hodgins, Plant Manager.
Imperial Tobacco
Canada
LETTER#4
107 Woodlawn Road West
Guelph, Ontario N1H 1B4
Canada
Tel. (519) 824-4000 Fax (519) 824-2646 www.imperialtobaccocanada.com
Mr. RonCostigan,
President, Local 323T,
Bakery, Confectionery, Tobacco Workers and Grain Millers International Union, Guelph, Ontario.
DearMr. Costigan
Subsequent to discussions held between the Company and the Union during the 1980 negotiations with respect to supervisors or employees above the rank cf supervisor performing bargaining unit work, this is to confirm that it is not the Company's intention to have these people perform bargaining unit work except as expressly provided for in Clause 1.04 of this Collective Agreement.
Yours truly,
P. Hodgins, Plant Manager.
imperial Tobacco Canada Limited
Tobacco
Canada
LETTER#5
107 Woodlawn Road West
Guelph, Ontario N1H 184
Canada
Tel. (51 9) 824-4000 Fax (519) 824-2646 www.imperlaltobaccocanada.con
Mr. RonCostigan,
President, Local 323T,
Bakery, Confectionery, Tobacco Workers and Grain Millers International Union, Guelph, Ontario.
Dear Mr. Costigan
This letter will serve to confirm the understanding reached in negotiations that in the event it should become necessary to lay off employees as a result of a change in production requirements, the Company and Unionwill meet to explore ways and means of minimizing the impacton those employees affected.
Yours truly,
P. Hodgins, Plant Manager
)

10
10
Imperial Tobacco Canada Limited
Tobacco
Canada
LETTER# 6
Mr. RonCostigan,
President, Local 323T,
Bakery, Confectionery, Tobacco Workers and Grain Millers International Union, Guelph, Ontario.
Dear Mr. Costigan:
This letterwill serve to confirm the understanding reached during the 1999 negotiations regarding the development of a new Non-Trades base classification system.
•	The Company and the Union committed to jointly develop a pay band classification system based on criteria agreed to through a Union/Management Committee.
•	The Company commits to continue dialogue and discussion with respect to the wage schedule.
• Review of new or changedjobs within the classification system will take place at predetermined intervals as set by the Union/Management committee.
Yours truly,
Re: Non-Trades Classification System
P. Hodgins, Plant Manager
10
Imperial Tobacco Canada Limited
Tobacco
Canada
107 Woodlawn Road West
LETTER# 7	Guelph, Ontario N1H 1B4
Canada
Tel. (519) 824-4000 Fax (519) 824-2646 www.irnperlaltobaccocanada.cor
Mr. RonCostigan,
President, Local 323T,
Bakery, Confectionery, Tobacco Workers and Grain Millers International Union, Guelph, Ontario.
Dear Mr. Costigan,
RE: CONTINUOUS OPERATIONS/ SUMMER PERIOD
This letter will serve to confirm the agreement reached in negotiations on Continuous
Operations. Specifically, for all employees:
e The Summer Period will be defined as a I 0 week consecutive period. The specific dates will be posted in November of the preceding year.
• For the purposes of vacation booking the period will be broken down into five blocks of two weeks and every employee will be guaranteed and required to choose one block according to the plantvacation procedure. Each blockwill allow 20% of employees per job, per shift, to take vacation.
A standardized process for vacation selectionwill be created and this new common
procedurefor all employees established in the Guelph Plant Procedures Manual.
Yours truly,
P. Hodgins, Plant Manager.
' a ' / ] shY\\w^j	)
Imperial Tobacco Canada Limited
Imperial Tobacco
Canada
LETTER #8
107 Woodlawn Road West
Guelph, Ontario N1H1B4
Canada
Tel. (51 9) 824-4000 Fax (51 9) 824-2646 Www.imperialtobaccocanada.com
Mr. RonCostigan,
President, Local 323T,
Bakery, Confectionery, Tobacco Workers and Grain Millers International Union, Guelph, Ontario.
DearMr. Costigan
RE: BANKING
This letterwill serve to confirm the understanding reached in negotiations that a formal
system of vacation banking be introduced commencing with the year 2000 and running
for ten (10) consecutive years. This system includes the following:
•	Employees with vacation entitlement over and above three weeks are eligible for the banking program.
•	Employees may bank up to three weeks of their vacation over and above their first three weeks <f entitlement.
•	Employees are entitledto bank the two guaranteed weeks during the 10 week Summer Period. An employee who has banked those weeks will then be entitledto bank one week outside the I Oweek period.
•	Employees can bank a maximum 26 weeks during the period from 2000 to 2009.
•	Eligible employees will be provided an opportunity to bank eligible entitlement. A standardized process for banking will be established and added to the Guelph Plant Procedures Manual.
•	Employees will receive a guaranteed return of 10% on the principal balance as of December 31 cf each year. This principal will include banked weeks from the current vacation year.
•	This return will be credited in additional time in the bank.
•	Total balance will be the total weeks banked by the employee plus the interest accumulated.
imperial Tobacco Canada Limited

Canada
2
•	Balance is only refundable upon termination or the formal notification of retirement and is only refundable by taking the time accumulated in the account. Time will be paid at the rate earned at the time of redemption and will continue to accumulate pensionable service during this redemption period.
•	Employees are eligible for full benefits during the redemption period.
The Company will provide to employees on an annual basis a summary of their banked weeks and accumulated interest on that amount.
Yours truly,
P. Hodgins, Plant Manager.

TOBACCO
Canada
107 Woodlawn Road West
Guelph, Ontario N1H1B4
Canada
Tel. (51 9) 824-4000
LETTER# 9	Fk(619) 824-2646
www.imperialtobaccocanada.com
Mr. RonCostigan,
President, Local 323T,
Bakery, Confectionery, Tobacco Workers and Grain Millers International Union, Guelph, Ontario.
DearMr. Costigan:
RE: RETIREMENT COMPENSATION ARRANGEMENT fR.C.A.)
This letterwill serve to confirm the understanding reached during the 2004 negotiations between the Company and the Union that an amount of $2,000 per year for each active employee on December 31 <f each year, for the duration of the Collective Agreement, will be contributed to a “Retirement Compensation Arrangement” to be administered by the Union or designate.
Yours truly,
P. Hodgins, Plant Manager
Imperial Tobacco Canada Limited
Tobacco
Canada
LETTER#10
107 Woodlawn Road West
Guelph, Ontario N1H 1B4
Canada
Tel. (519) 824-4000 Fax (519) 824-2646 www.imperialtobaccocanada.cor
Mr. Ron Costigan,
President, Local 323T,
Bakery, Confectionery, Tobacco Workers and Grain Millers International Union, Guelph, Ontario.
DearMr. Costigan
RE: PROCEDURES MANUAL
This letter will serve to confirm the understanding reached between the Company and the Union regarding A Master Procedures Manual divided into General, Non-Trades, Trades and Office sections. Its purpose being to:
1.	Document procedures that relate to Guelph Plant policies or the Collective Agreement.
2.	Develop a recognized method for jointly introducing, modifying and deleting procedures.
Further, it is understood that the Company intends to progress towards the removal of procedural languagefrom the Collective Agreement to this Procedures Manual. Any movement of such language must be mutually agreed to.
Yours truly,
P. Hodgins, Plant Manager.
Imperial Tobacco Canada Limited
IMPERIAL TOBACCO
Canada
LETTER# 11
107 Woocffawn Road West
Guelph, Ontario 1VI1H 1B4
Canada
Tel. (519) 824-4000 Fax (519) 824-2646 vwvw.imperiaftobaccocanada.com
Mr. RonCostigan,
President, Local 323T,
Bakery, Confectionery, Tobacco Workers and Grain Millers International Union, Guelph, Ontario.
Dear Mr. Costigan:
Re: Red-Circle Agreement
This letter confirms the agreement reached in negotiations that effective
March 31, 2005, all employees, with the exception of those designated by both Parties,
will be covered under the Red-Circle provisions of the Collective Agreement.
Yours truly,
P. Hodgins,
Plant Manager.
^ aWX V\ fr*n ^
Imperial lobacco Canada Limited