STANDARD PRODUCTS (CANADA) LIMITED
CAW-CANADA, LOCAL 4451
00717 (04)
INDEX
A
AGREEMENT
Amendment of Duration of Purpose
ARBITRATION
B
BARGAININGUNTT Definition Exclusion from Committee
BULLETIN BOARD BEREAVEMENT PAY
C
CALL IN PAY
Reporting Pay CHANGE IN ADDRESS CHECK CFF
Union Dues Amount of Dues COMMITTEES For Plants For bargaining For grievances For other matters COST OF LIVING
Fold-in of COLA
D
DEMOTION
DISCHARGE
DISCIPLINE
DRUG PLAN
w -7 m
Section
21,01
21,02
1.01
8.01
8.02
8.03
2.01	(a)(b)
2.01	(a)(b)
6.01	(a)(b)
18.01
15.07
15.06
15.05
10.05
3.01
3.01	(a)
6.01	(a)
6.01	(b)
6.07
6.08 15.12 15.12(a)
4.01	(b)
4.01	(b)
4.01	(b)
4.02	/ Article V Schedule 1 -4
Page
64
64
1
11
13
15
2
2
8
43
34
34
34
19
3
3
8
8
9
9
37
38
5
5
5
6
67
DENTAL PLAN
EARNINGS
Incentives
E
EXPERIMENTAL WORK EMPLOYEE COMPLAINT
EMPLOYEE RIGHTS EMPLOYEE TRAINING
F
FOREMEN WORKING
G
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE Complaints Written Grievance Meeting with Company Company can decline Discharge- Suspension Company Grievance Union Grievance GUARANTEE OF WORK
H
HEALTH & SAFETY HIRHC RIGHT OF COMPANY HOLIDAYS
Amount of pay Tb Qualify Hours of Holiday Pay if Worked Balls on Saturday/Sunday Falls during vacation Canada Day Paid Personal Days HOSPITAL COVERAGE HOURS OF WORK
Schedule 1-6	76
4.01	(e) 15.11 (a) Schedule 4
15.04
2.04
7.01
2.05
18.04 (a)
6
37
103
33
2
10
2
45
14.09	32
7.01
7.01	Step 1
7.01	Step 2
7.01	Step 3
7.02
5.03
7.03
7.04 14.05
10
10
10
10
11
7
11
11
31
Article XX
4.01	(b)
16.01	(a)
16.01	(b)
16.03	(a)(b)
16.02	(a)
16.02	(a) 16.05
16.04
16.05
16.06
Schedule 1 -3 14.01
55
5
38
39 39 39
39
40 40 40 40 67 27
Shift Wak	4.01 (c)
14.01
Guarantee of Ifours	14,05
StartingTime	14,01
14.02 I
INCENTIVEPLAN
Time Study of Incentive Jobs Type of Elan Incentive Standard Effect of Other Pay Policies
Base Rate Guaranteed IncentiveEamings Paid by Job
Payment When Not on Incentive
Development of
4,01 (E)
15.11	(A)
15.11	(b) Schedule4-1 Schedule4-2
Schedule4-3
Schedule4-4
Schedule4-5
Schedule4-6
Incentive Standards Installationof Standards Change in Standards
Sehedule4-7
Schedule4-8
Schedule4-9
Substitute and Added Operations Schedule4-10
Temporary Incentive Standard INCENTIVE
Schedule4-11
Subject to Grievance Group Incentive Payment Codes Dispute
INJURY (Plant)
Pay Allowance Seniority
INVENTORY PAY
JOB POSTING
Selection cr Rejection
JURY DUTY
LAYOFF
Schedule4-12
Schedule4-13
Sehedule4-14
Schedule4-15
15.03 13,05
15.04	(b)
J
12.01	(a)
12.01	(g)
15.08 (a)(b)
L
5
27
31
27
27
6 37 37
103
103
104
104
105
105
106 107
107
108 108
108
108
109
109
33 26
34
22
24
35
From Pool
From Occupational Group From One Shift After 4 hours work Benefit Coverage LEAVE OF ABSENCE Sickness OtherthaniUness Pregnancy Death in Family Jury Duty Union Business Status on Return LUNCH (Paid)
LIFE INSURANCE LOCK OUT
M
MANAGEMENTRIGHTS
MEETINGS
Grievances
Discharge-Suspension other Matters MEDICAL COVERAGE
O
OCCUPATIONALGROUPS
OVERTIME
Hours of Pay 24 Hour Day Shall Work
P
PAY PERIOD PENSION PLAN
PAY RATES
If reported as scheduled If called back If shift is changed
11.02(c)	21
11.02 (a)(b)	20
11.02(d)	21
11.01	20
Schedule 1-7	74
13.01
13.02
13.06
15.07
15.08
13.03 13.05
14.10 (a)(b) Schedulel-2 (a)(b) 9.01
25
25
26
34
35 26 26 32 67 15
4.01
5
5.01	(a)(c)	6
7.01	10
5,03	7
6,08	9
Schedule 1-3	67
4.01 (d)	5
14.03	28
14.07	32
14.04	28
14.08	32
Schedule 1 -5	67
15.10	36
15.05	34
15.06	34
14.06	3!
If transferred
PROBATIONARY PERIOD New employee Occupational Group If Plant Closes
R
RECALL FROMLAYOFF RECOGNITION By Company
By Union
REGULARWORK DAY SifltWork REST PERIODS REPRIMANDS RETIREMENT AGREEMENT RULES
15,09 (a)(b)(c)	35
10.01	(a)(b)(c)	IS
10,06 (a)l,2,3	19
10.02	16
11.02(h)	22
2,01
2,02
4.01
14.01
14.02
15.01	(a)@)
5.01
4.02
2
2
5
27
27
33
6 117
6
SENIORITY Pool Help
Movement cf Pool OccupationalGroups One shift to another After 4 hours Seniority Loss Seniority lasts Shut down one Plant
SICK BENEFIT SKILLED TRADES STRIKES
SAFETY
SHIFT PREMIUM STEWARDS
Amount of Service
10.01	(a)(b)(c)	16
11.02(c)	21
10.06 (c)(2)	20
11.02	(a)(b)(f)	20
11.02(d)	21
11.01	(a)(b)(c)(d)	20
10.04	17
10.03	17
2.05	2
10.02	16
Schedule 1-1	66
Article XIX	46
9.01	15
18.02	(a)(b)	44
Article XX	55
15.02	33
6.02	8
6.03	8
Two or More Status
TECHNOLOGICALCHANGE TRANSFERS In Pool
T
One group to another Unforeseen happening B y seniority Out cf seniority One shift to another 9ift change during week One Plant to another Out of bargaining unit
UNION
Recognition
U
Dues
Chairpersons Bulletin board
6.04	8
6.05	9
18.04	44
10.06	(c)(2)	20
11.02(c)	21
11.02	(a)(b)(f)	20
11.02(e)	21
15.09	(a)@)	35
15.09	(c)	36
11.02	20
14.06	31
10.02	16
10.04(g)	18
2.01	(a)(b)
2.02
2,03
3.01	(a)(b)
3.02
6,06 (a)(b) 18.01
2
2
2
3
4 9
43
V
VACATION
30 Years of service 25 Years of service 20 Years of service 15 to 20 Yearsof service 10 to 15 Yearsof service 5 to 10 Yearsof service less than 5 Years of service
VISION CARE
W
WAGE RATES
17.01	(a) 17.01(b)
17.02
17.03
17.04
17.05
17.06
Schedule 1-8
41
41
42 42 42 42 42 75
Plant Number 1 Septemberl, 1995 October I, 1996 October 1, 1997 Plant Number 2 Septemberl* 1995 October], 1996 October!, 1997 WASHUP
WEARING APPAREL WELFAREBENEFITS
Schedule 2A	80
Schedule 2B	84
Schedule 2C	88
Schedule3A	92
Schedule 3B	95
Schedule3C	99
15.01	(a)	33
18.02	(a)(b)	44
18.03	44
Memorandum of
COLLECTIVE LABOUR AGREEMENT entered into
as of the 1st day of October 1995 BETWEEN
STANDARD PRODUCTS (CANADA) LIMITED A company incorporated under the laws of the Province of Ontario,with Head Office at the City of Stratford (HEREINAFTERREFERREDTO AS THE "COMPANY")
-AND-
NATIONAL AUTOMOBILE, AEROSPACE, TRANSPORTATION AND
GENERAL WORKERS UNION OF CANADA (CAW-CANADA) AND ITS LOCAL 4451
(HEREINAFTERREFERRED TO AS "THEUNION" Witnesseth that the company andtheUnicm agree as follows: ARTICLE I ■ PURPOSE
1.01	The general purpose of this Agreement is 1o establish mutually
satisfactory relations between the Company and its employees and to provide machinery for the prompt and equitable disposition of grievances, and to establish and maintain satisfactory working conditions, hours and wages for all employees who are subject to the provisions of this Agreement, keeping in mind at all times that r welfare and prosperity of the employees are contingent upon the Company's ability to successfully compete in the trade and in the sale of its products.
1
ARTICLED- RECOGNITION AN D SCOPE
2.01	(a) The Company recognizes the Union as the exclusive bargaining agent for the bargaining unit composed of all employees of the Company in its Plant #1, 1030 Erie Street and its Plant #2, 703 Douro Street, in the City cf Stratford, Ontario, save and except foremen, persons above the rank cf foremen, timekeepers and time clerks, office and sales staff and plant guards.
(b)	The said plants, while they are in operation, shall be treated as separate divisions for the purposes of this Agreement and the employees in each division shall have separate plant committees and separate seniorities and seniority lists but both divisions shall have a single grievance committee, as hereinafter provided.
2.02	Wherever the word employee a: the word employees is used throughoutthis Agreement it shall mean the employee or employees within the respective divisions (hereinafter sometimes referred to as the divisions or division)as provided in Sections2,01 (A) and (B).
2.03	As a condition of employment, any employee hired or trans-
ferred into a division shall become a member of the Union not later than 3 0 days following his hire or transfer into that division and shall maintain membership in the Union as a condition of continued employment. During the orientation process, the new employee will be introduced to his a: her Union steward.
2.04	Any employee may take up any personal matter directly with the Company at any time.
2.05	In the event that the Company moves or transfers a portion of the production and equipment at Plants 1 and 2 in Stratford to a new factory
2
owned or leased or operated by it, then in that event, the Company will give the Union notice cf such a move or transfer as far in advance as practicable and will meet with the Union for the purpose of working out a transfer or production agreement covering employees laid off as a result of such move a: transfer, provided always however, that there is no Collective Agreement to which the Company is a party or is bound by reason of the provisions of the Labour Relations Act or amendments thereto, covering a bargaining unit at the new factory. In the event there is a Collective Agreement covering a bargaining unit t the new factory, employees laid off as a result of the move or transfer shall, subjectto said Collective Agreement, be offered the opportunity to transfer with thorjcbs.
ARTICLEDI • UNIONDUES CHECK-OFF AND INITIATICNFEE
3.01	(a) The parties agree that there shall be set up, as of the
date hereof, a checkoff of Union dues, compulsory upon all employees ■who come within the bargaining unit, in which this agreement applies, The cheek-off shall continue during the life of this agreement. Every employee within the bargaining unit shall become eligible to the checkoff upon completion of forty (40) hours worked in the first calendar month of employment within the Company.
The amount to be deducted shall be such sum as may, Pnom time to time, be assessed by the Union on Its members, according to its constitution and bylaws, for general Union purposes, as regular monthly Union dues. This check-off of Union dues shall be deducted fern a pay cheque for the calendar month in which the first forty (40) hours of employment are completed and remitted to the financial secretary of CAW Local 4451* prior to the fifteenth (15th) day of the followingmonth.
3
(b) The Company shall also deduct from the pay of every employee who comes within the bargaining unit and who has completed thirty (30) calendar days of employment with the Company, one (1) Union initiation fee during his employment with the Company provided the employee has not, at an earlier time, paid an imtiatdm fee to the Union, with proof The amount of the Initiation fee shall be the amount fixed by the constitution and by-laws of the Union. The initiation fee Shall be deducted from a pay cheque in the calendar month following the month h which the said thirty (30) calendar days of employment have been completed, and remitted to the financial secretary of the Local along with the nextremittanceofUhicn dues as aforesaid,
3.02	The Company agrees to deduct Uhim dues and/or the
equivalentof Uhim dues according to the ccnstituticnof the CAW from all employees in the bargaining unit beginning with the first month in which forty (40) hours of employment have been completed. The CompanyWill agree to take dues c££ one (1) cheque and Initiation fee c£f another and will agree to show annual Union dues deducted on the employee's T4 tax form.
The list will contain the employee's name, badge number, address, postal code and telephone number along with the amount of such deductions and the reason, if any, why no deductions were made from certain employees.
The financial secretary of the Local Uhim shall notify the Company, In writing, of any corrections to be made in the sums deducted.
Any dispute as to the alleged breach of these provisions or to the Interpretation cf any of the tecmsof ccnditicnsshall be dealt with at Step Z of the grievance procedure.
4
ARTICLE IV ■ MANAGEMENTRIGHTS
4.01	The Union acknowledgesthat it is the exclusive function of the
Company ta
(a)	Maintain order, disciplineand efficiency.
(b)	Hire, discharge, transfer, promote, demote or discipline employees and determine employee's qualifications and qualifications needed for ajob, provided that a claim of unfair supervision, promotion, demotion, transfer, determination cf employee's qualifications, or qualifications needed for a job, a: a claim that an employee has been discharged or disciplined without just cause. may be the subject of a grievance and dealt with as hereinafterprovided.
(c)	The Union further acknowledgesthe right of the Company to operate and manage its business in all respects in accordance with its commitments and responsibilities. Except as may be restricted by this Agreement, the Company retains all rights, functions and prerogatives, including, but not limited, to, the location of the plants, the direction of the working forces, the products to be manufactured, and the nrfwial used in manufacturing and their sources, the schedules of production, the methods, processes and means of manufacturing used, the right to decide on the number of employees needed by the Company at any time, the rights to use improved methods, machinery and equipment and jurisdiction over all operations, buildings, machinery, tools and employeesin its plants.
(d)	Establish occupational groups and to discontinue, restrict or expand the same, and will have meantngftd discussion with the Union prior to implementation.
5
(e)	To establish an incentive pay plan for jobs throughout its plants and by agreement betweai the parties hereto to alter, nrrtify; amend and discontinue the same from tine to time.
4.02	It is recognized that good discipline must be maintained. It is
agreed, therefore, that the Company shall have the right without hindrance, other than by grievance procedure, to discipline employees who violate any provisions cf this Agreement or any Company rules. The Company will discuss new rules and regulations wiih the thim prior to implementation.
ARTICLE V * DISCIPLINARY ACTION
5.01	The following procedure will apply when a seniority
employeels to be given a written reprimand, suspensionor discharge!
(a)	When the Company believes an offense has been committed that warrants a written reprimand, suspension or termination, the employee with a Union representative will be interviewed in an office and advised ofthe alleged offense within two (2) working days of the Company becoming aware of the infraction This time limit will not apply in cases of absenteeism.
(b)	Following a full investigation by both parties, to be completed within two (2) days cf the employee being advised of the offense, unless a longer period is needed and mutually agreed upon, the employeeand the Union will beadvised ofthe penalty to be imposed.
(c)	Whe n the Union disagrees wl tb the penalty stated above, a meeting may be requested with the employee, the chairperson or his/her designate, and the Manager of Human Resources cr his/her
designate to be bdd prior to the employee losing line because cf the penalty to be imposed, to attempt to mitigate the discipline, After consideration of the Iftim's position, the Company will impose the
6
disciplinary action they believe is appropriate under the circumstances. It is understood that Article (c) may notapply to written reprimands.
(d)	If after Step (c) the Uiim stUI feels the Issue has not been properly addressed, it shaU be dealt with at Step 3 of the gr ievance procedure,
5.02	(a) Article 5,01 shall not apply when the alleged violation may endangerthe safety of the employee himself or other employees, or be of such a nature that it would be inadvisable to retain the employee in the plant, e,g, such violations Involving drunkenness, immoral conduct, theft, sabotage, fighting or matters ofa similar nature.
(b)	In such cases, the Company may immediately remove such employeefrom the premises.
5.03	(a) The following special procedure shall be applicable to a grievance alleging improper discharge car suspension of an employee having seniority. He shall have the right to Interview his committeeman or steward in a suitable place for a reasonable period cf time before leavingthe plant premises, The discharged or suspended employee shall present the grievance tn Writing, signed by him, to the Company management at any time within three normal working days next followingthe day on which the discharge or suspension takes place* The management will review the discharge or suspension with the discharged orsuspendedemployeeorwith ^discharged or suspended employee and the committee and render Its decision in writing within three (3) normal working days after said review, The consideration of his grievance may include not only the merits of the case, but also what, if any compensation shall be paid for the time lost in i±e event his reinstatement Is agreed upon, The weed "committee" as used In this paragraph shall mean the committee mentioned in Section 6.0? or a quorumthereof.
7

5.04	(a) A copy c£ all reprimand notations will be given to the
employee (including probationary anployees) a d the Union and such notice will become part of the orplqyee's personnel record. If an employee has had a reprimand notation placed on his/her record and has since the date of that placement, been employed fir a period of twelve (12) months without having further reprimand notation placed on his/her record, it is understood that said reprimand or any prior reprimands shall not be used againsthider.
ARTICLEVI- NEGOTIATING AND GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
6.01	(a)The employees will select a seven (7) person committee, all of whom shah have had one year's service wiih the Company.
(b) The seven (7) members selected as in the preceding section provided, shall constitute a bargaining committee for the purpose cf negotiating with the Company, with respect to proposed amendments to this AgEsanarb, notice of which shall have been given pursuant cf Article XXI.
6.02	Each plant committee as mentioned in Section 6,01 may appoint a steward on any shift in any production area under the supervision of a foreman vfap, there is no committeeman employed.
6.03	Any employee appointed as a steward shall have had six nmths service with the Company. The Company shall be notified fiadKiHi of any such appointment The appointment shall fbrtlmth be rescinded at my time vihai there is a committeeman employed in the same production area on thesameshift as the steward.
6.04	In the event that two or more committeemen are employed in one production area on the same shift, the committee shall forthwith designate to the Company one committeeman in that production area who
8
shall alone be entitled to handle grievances arising in such production area pursuant Id the procedure hereinafter provided.
6.05	A steward during his term of office shall be. deemed to be a committee member within the meaning of Section 7.01 to 7.03 inclusive in the absence of a committeeperson.
6.06	(a) The chairperson or designate, being employed in the division in one plant may request permitted leave, which shall not be unreasonably withheld, to investigate the circumstances of a grievance which has been processed through Step 1 of the grievance procedure in the division in the other plant. The permitted leave shall only be long enough
to make a reasonable investigation.
(b) I n the event that the chalrperson/co-chairperson of the
Union deems it necessary to convene a special or emergency meeting during his working day he shall be given the necessary time c£E to attend same. It is understood that the chairperson/co-chalrperson shall give the Company as much notice of such meeting as is practical.
6.07	The Company also recognizes a grievance committee which shall be composed of the chairperson and the co-chalrperson of the Union and one representative from each plant committee mentioned in 6.01 (a) or a steward appointed under Section 6,02.
An official representative of the CAW and/or president of the Local may attend any meeting held between the Company and the said committeeif his presence is requested by the committee or the Company.
6.08	If a meeting is requested by the Union to discuss matters of general interest other than grievances with the Company, upon the presentation of an agenda therefore, agrees, the meeting shall be held at a time and place mutually agreed upon between the representatives of the
9
Company and the grievance committee composed of persons as provide in Section 6.07.
ARTICLE VH - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
7.01	It is the nLtial desire of the parties hereto that complaints of
employees be adjusted as quickly as possible and it is understood that an employee has no grievance until he and his area grievance committeeperson or his steward or co*chairper$on have given his faraxan an opportunity to adjust his complaint.
step 1:
The employee accompanied by his area steward or local cochairperson shall discussthe complaint with the area supervisor within three (3) working days of the complaint and the foreman shall have three (3) working days firm the date of being so informed to attempt to resolve the matter. If the complaint is not settled at this step, then the grievance may be processed under fcheprovisions cf Step 2,
Step 2:
Within Hiss (3) working days die co-chairperson or his/her authorized Union designate, may present this grievance in writing to the plant manager, or his designate, whet WH give a written decision within three (3) working days of receipt cf grievance.
Step3:
Within three working days cf receiving decision under Step 2, the Union shall request in writing, a meeting between Company and Grievance Committee, as provided for in Section 6.07. Such meeting shall take place within nine (9) working days of such notification or such tune as may be mutually agreed upon. If grievance is not settled at such time, the grievance may be referred te arbitration by the Union or the Company.
10
7.02	It shall be optional with the Company to decline to consider any grievance, the alleged circumstances of which originated or occurred more than five (5) working days prior to its presentation, provided however, that in the case where an employee could not have become aware of the alleged circumstances within the said five (5Jworking days, the said period will commence to run from the time when he did become aware of them.
7.03	It is understood that the Company may bring forward at any meeting held or convened with the grievance committee, any complaint with respect to the conduct of the Union or its members, including a claim for damages if the alleged circumstances of such complaint originated or occurred within two weeks of the holding or calling of the meeting. It is also understood that if such complaint is not settled, it may be treated as a grievance and referred to a±itetaon in the same way as the grievance of an employee.
7.04	A grievance by the Union may be initiated in writing at the second stage of the grievance procedure, provided the subject matter of the grievance is not such that it could be disposed cf at the first stage of the grievance procedure on the grievance of an employee.
ARTICLE vm - ARBITRATION
8.01	(a)	either party to this agreement requests that a
grievance be submitted to arbitration, such request shall be made in writing addressed to the other party to this agreement.
(b)	The party to whom such request is directed shall immediately write to the arbitrator whose name is next in the sequence of rotation seeking a date for arbitration. The arbitrators and the sequence of their rotation are as follows:
11
1)	ProfessorW. A. Rayner
2)	Louisa Davie
(c)	Should any of the arbitrators constituting the panel of arbitrators withdraw or resign from the panel, 1±en the party who Dominated the arbitrator who has withdrawn or resigned shall forthwith submit to the other party to this agreement a list of four (4) nominees from which shall be seleotadone (1) narrinseto replace the arbitrator who has Withdrawn or resigned.
(d)	The arbitrator shall act In rotation with respect to each successive grievance that h referred to arbitration. Should the arbitrator to whom the reference Is made be unable to hear the grievance Within ninety (90) calendar days after the grievance has been referred to him, then he shall be passed over to the next arbitrator on the list
(e)	The expenses of the arbitrator shall be shared equally between the parties,
(f)	The arbitrator shall not have the right to alter, amend, add to, subtract from, co: eliminate any of the terms and provisions c£ this agreement except as otherwiseprovided herein. The decision of the arbitrator shall be dual and binding upon the parties,
(g)	At the request of either party or the arbitrator, all reasooable arrangements s h a 11 be made to permit the arbitrator to take a view of the premises in question or the site at which the dispute took place together with the representatives of both parties and materiel witnesses who may be involved.
(h)	Only matters which have been dealt with under the grievance procedure may be submittedto arbitration.
12
8.02	As an alternative to the regular arbitration procedure the
parties shall have the option of mutually agreeing to refer a post third step grievance to a grievance commissionerin the following procedure:
(a)	The Company and the Union may agree in wri ting to the appointment of a person or persons as a single arbitrator to be known as a grievance commissioner (where more than one, acting in rotation) will set aside such time as may be requested by the Company and the Urrim to consider and determine grievances referred to him hereunder for final and binding arbitration. The grievance commissioner shall have the same powers and be subject to the same limitations as an arbitrator under clause 8,02.
(b)	Through the grievance commissioner, the parties desire the expeditious means for the effective disposition of grievances which the parties have agreed may be handled in a summary manner. The rules governing the summary proceedings of the grievance commissioner are set out in this article,
(c)	The decision of the grievance commissioner shall only be applicablein the case in question and shall not constitute a precedent nor be used by either party as precedent in future cases. Notwithstanding anything contained in the agreement, the decision of the grievance commissioner shall:
(i)	be consistent with the provisions of this agreement;
(U) be confined to the grievance referred to him.
(d)	The Unim and the Company shall each he responsible for one half the expenses and fees payable to the grievance commissioner.
13
(e)	The parties, when referring a grievance to a grievance commissioner, shah also provide his with the Step 1 summary (or as amended by the agreement of the parties) and the decisions cf the management representative at Step3.
(f)	The parties shall supply the grievance commissioner and each other with additional concise sod brief written representations on which they intend to rely provided that such are mailed not less than ten (10) days before the commencement cf the hearings of the grievance ccnnissioner.
(g)	The parties shall meet at least ten (10) days prior to the hearing date in order to determine what Information or facts can be agreed upon prior to the hearing in order that a statement of facts can he written and provided to each party and the grievance commissioner before the commencement cf the bearings,
(h)	The purpose of the hearing W to clarify the issues or facts in dispute. At the hearing, the parties may make such further representations or adduce such evidence as the grievance commissioner may permit or require, but the grievance commissioner shall not he obligated to confom to the rules of evidence.
(I)	The grievance commissioner met render his decision Is writing without reasons to both parties within seven (Todays of the conclusion of the hearings. Upon request by either party after hh decision has been rendered, the grievance commfcsloner shall deliver brief reasons but such reasons shall not form part cf hh decision. The list of grievance commissioners identified to expedite the disposition of the grievancesunder 8.02 are:
14
1)	John Clement
2)	Bill Kaplin
(J) The parties shall jointly write to the grievance commissioner whose name Is next in the sequence of rotation seeking a cfete for a hearing. The grievance commissioners and the sequence of their rotation are specified in (i) above.
(k) Should any of the grievance commissioners constituting the panel of grievance commissioners withdraw or resign fern the panel, then the party who nominated the grievance commissioner who has withdrawn or resigned shall forthwith submit to the other party a list of four (4) nominees from which shall be selected one (1) nominee to replace the grievancecommissionerwho has withdrawn or resigned.
(10) Should the grievance commissioner in rotation be unable to hear the grievance within ninety (90) calendar days after the grievance has been referred to him, then he shaU be passed over to the other grievance commissioner on the list
8.03	The arbitrator or the arbitration board nor the grievance
commissioner shall not be authorized to make any decision inconsistent with the provisions of this Agreement, nor to alter, modify or amend any part of this Agreement nor shall the arbitrator car 1he arbitration board nor the grievance commissioner have authority, to decide a dispute involving ^ question of a general wage level demand.
ARTICLE IX - STRIKES AND LOCKOUTS
9.01	There shall be no lockout, strike, sitdown, slowdown or
stoppage cf work either partial or complete over any matters during the tam of this Agreement.
ARTICLE X - SENIORITY
15
10.01	(a) An employee shallhave no seniority rights or claim to a job
until he is entitled to have his name placed on a master seniority list and until that time shall be a probationary employee.
(b)	His name shall be placed on a master list as of the date. of hiring after 45 working days of continuous employment within any period of fifteen (15) consecutive months.
(c)	The date of hiring of an employee placed on a master list after 45 days cf intermittent employment within any period cf fifteen (15) consecutive months shall be considered to be the date 45 working days prior Id the <tte. which he completed his probationary period. Forty-five (45) working days shall mean 45 days on which the employee actually Works.
10,02	In the event that the operations of the Company in either cf the plants mentioned in Section2.01 (a) are discontinued, and as a consequence, the employees in a division mentioned in Section 2.01(b) are released by the Company, then in that event, for a period cf three years next following the said discontinuance, the Company dial, subject to Section 12.01, hire for work in the other plant the saidreleased employees in the order of their seniority at the time cf their said release to fill newjob openings in the other plant and all former employees hired as aforesaid shdtt serve 1he following probationary periods:
(a)	For master seniority under Section 10.01 the probationary period shall be thirty (30) working days.
(b)	For occupational group seniority under Section 10.06, the probationary period shall be sixty (60) working days for maintenance or mechanical occupational groups, Quality Control, and Groups 33 and 39 in Plant 1, andforty (40) working days for all other occupational groups.
16
(c)	No probationary period shall be required to entitle the said fomer employees to benefits under Article 16, 17 and Schedule No.l, and the benefits thereunder shall be granted as though the hiring date at the other plant were the same as the hiring date at the plant from which they were released.
(d)	An employee who accepts work in the other division as provided for in this Article, shall maintain master seniority only in the division moved from. Recall rights to the previous division will not be utilized by the employee unless an opening in the said division occurs, Seniority will not be transferable from plant to plant,
Seniority Lists
10.03	Seniority lists for each division, copies of which shall be lodged with the Union and posted on the appropriate plant bulletin board at least twice a year, shall be prepared and maintained by the Company as follows:
(a)	A master seniority list covering all employees in the division who have served their probationary period as provided in Section
10.01,
(b)	A seniority list for each occupational group in the division.
(c)	Additional master seniority lists covering all employees in each division who are servingthe probationary period shall be issued to the Union chairperson,
10.04	All seniority rights of an employee shall cease where:
(a)	he voluntarily resigns.
17
(b)	he is discharged for just cause and such discharge is not reversed through the grievance procedure.
(c)	he is absent for three consecutive days for reasons other than illness or injury without having applied for and obtained a leave of absence for a definite period from the Company unless there is good reason acceptable to the Company provided for such failure to meet this time ]±it.
(d)	(1) he is absent fir seven consecutive days due to illness or injury unless the Company is notified in writing of such condition by the employee or his agent within the said seven days, provided however, that such notification shall he deemed to have been given if the employee is incapacitated to the extent that he cannot notify the Company within the time. and in the manner aforesaid.
(2)	he is absent due to illness or injury and has notified the Company or has been deemed to have notified the Company, within the tin® and in the manner in the next preceding paragraph provided, but fails toreportto work when medically approved for return to work.
(e)	he fails, after a lay-off to report for work within five days after notification that he should return shall have been delivered or mailed by registered mail to the last address given to the Company by the employee.
(f)	he has been on lay-off for three (3) years or more.
(g)	Any employee transferred or promoted out of the bargaining unit and returned back to the bargaining unit shall only accumulate the seniority acquired while in the bargaining unit. The employee returning to the bargaining unit will be permitted foreplace the mostjunior employee in his former classification (seniority permitting) for
18
a period cf six (6) months. All seniority rights will be forfeited after six (6) months out of the bargaining unit.
10.05	Employees must notify the Personnel Department of the Company in writing of any change of address and the Company shall acknowledge, in writing, receipt of any such notification. The Company may rely on the last address given to it in sending notices to the employees.
PROBATIONARYPERICD (Occupational Groups)
10.06	(a) (1) The trial or probationary period far all occupational groups, with the exception of Skilled Trades, Quality Control department and Groups 33 and 39 (Plant 1), shall be forty (40) working days, and an employee must work in a non-mechanical occupational group for a trial period of up to forty (40) working days to acquire occupational group Seniority. It is agreed that when an employee has completed five (5) hours on his shift he will be credited with one (1) day. When his trial period is completed his name will be placed on the appropriate occupational group seniority list.
(2)	The trial or probationary period fix all Skilled Trades, Quality Control Department, and Groups 33 and 39 (Plant 1), shall be sixty (60) working days and an employee must work in Skilled Trades, Quality Control, and Groups 33 and 39 (Plant 1), for a trial period of up to sixty (60) working days to acquire occupational group seniority. When his trial period is completedhis name will be placed on the appropriate occupational group seniority list.
(3)	However, in certain circumstances and at the Company’s discretion, the above stated probationary periods may be extended with the approval of the employee concerned and the chairperson and/or cochairperson.
19
(c) When an employee has completed his trial period within an occupational group, he will be entitled to have his occupational group seniority coincide with his master seniority.
(1)	Employees while not working in an occupational group will be describedas working in the pool or as pool help.
(2)	Pool employees will be moved by seniority where it is practical to do so without interrupting production, it being the intention of this section that the junior employee be the one to tafe the move.
ARTICLE XI - LAYOFF AND RECALL
11.01	In the event cf a lay-off of an employee after four hours cf a shift have elapsed, seniority far the balance of the shrift shall be exercisable by him/her in the folio wing manner;
(a)	First on his or her job;
(b)	Wherever the Company deemsjobs are available;
(c)	They shall have the option of bumping probationary
employeeslf able to do the woih required;	I
(d)	They will have hie option of bumping employees In the following jobs: Plant #1 - trimming handnaillng, flesh picking, general clean-up, Plant #2 - end sealing, decklld plugger, handnaillng, buffing, and general clean-up.
11.02 Seniority lights of employees shall be exercised upon a lay-off as follows:
\
(a)	An employee working in an occupational group shall be entitled to seniority over an employee in that group having less seniority if able to do the different work required cf him or them.
20
(b)	An employee laid dEE from an occupational group shall be entitled to seniority rights by reference to the master seniority list among pool help only if he is able to do the work required of him, or those jobs listed in Article 11.01 (d). The Company shall within three working days place such employee within another occupational group if he has seniority therein and if he is able to do the work required of him and lay off an employee from such latter group who in turn may exercise his seniority rights, if any, among pool help.
(c)	Cn the lay-off of an employee working in the pool, seniorityshall be exercised among pool help only by reference to the master list, provided the employee with greater seniority is able to do the work required of him.
(d)	An employee laid c£E while working on one (l)shift shall not be entitled to exercise his seniority rights upon another drift until qfter the lapse of one (1) working day (at least 24 hours from the end of bis shift). For example, an employee laid off from his afternoon shift on Tuesday would not be entitled to exercise seniority until the beginning of Thursday's midnight or day shrift.
(e)	In the event of the breakage of tools or the happening of unforeseen contingencies, the Company may temporarily transfer an employee for the remainder of the shdt: to work other than his usual work and in such event seniority rights shall not be exercised by an employee.
(f)	An employee when transferred to an occupational group (not pool) shall be deemed to be serving atrial period within such group for such number of days as may appear appropriate or necessary, provided however, that such employees shall not be considered to be serving a trial period after completing 40 working days (Skilled Trades or Quality Control occupational groups and Groups 33 and 39, 60 working days)
21
within such group. He shall for such trial period retain his seniority, if any, within the group from which he was transferred.
(g)	If an employee gets laid c££from a Group and subsequently accepts ajob posting for another Group, their rights to the original job will be waived, except for lay off. The employee will however, be allowed to sign ajob posting to get back to his or ha: oldjob if openings arise, and the four (4) month waiting period vill be waived.
(b) Employees having the same seniority date shall be. laid off and recalled by clock number order, or by occupational group where applicable.
ARTICLE XH - JOB POSTING

12,01	(a) Permanentjob openings in a division, shall be posted in that
division for aperiod of 48 hours.
(1) With respect to posting for pooljobs and group #17 jobs, vacancies will be posted for a period cf 48 hours in these jobs with no accumulation of seniority. Employees bidding for pooljobs will serve a trial period of 40 working days. In the case of layoffs, master seniority will still be. maintained and the employees bidding for these jobs will have the right to sign c£Epooljobs they bid for.
(b) A selection under this section will be based on seniority providing the applicant has the necessary qualifications and ability to satisfactorily perform the job. Ch permanent and temporary postings, occupational group seniority will not be. used as the first criteria in the selection process.
(c) A two (2) step posting procedure shall be used, except for the following groups:
22
# 7 Foam Mixing #13 MtsdaL Ifedlas
#16 Cement Room Opera-tor
#40 Development (Pit 1)
#12 Receiving, Shipping #14 Inspector Quality Control #17 Teac
#48 Mill	1)
#45 Working Leader RoofRaUCPU 1)
#46 WorkingLeader EN114(Plt 1)
#10 Working Job Control (Pit 2)
#24 Roll Form Set-up (Pit 2)
#37 Launch Program Asst (Pit 2)
#40 IqjecLMold Set-up (Pit 2)
#42 WorkingLead.SDM Fin.(PH2)
#44 Ship/Rec.Inv.Contr. (Mixing)
#46 Extrusim Facilitator (PH 2)
Openings in these jobs will always be posted.
Step (2) A vacancy created because of transfer to the posted jcbin Step 1, diallbe posted.
Any other openings created under 2 above shall be filled at the discretion cf the Company.
Step (3) Notices are to Include the Step and successful
applicants and other job vacancies that are filled, will be posted on plant bulletin boards and a copy given to the Union.
(d) Before a final selection on a job posting, the Company WiHL
advise the Union of its selection within five working days of removal from posting boards and will for a period of 48 hours heat representation fran
Step (1) The vacantjob shall be posted.
23
the Utrion and the unsuccessful senior applicant with respect to the selection made from that division.
(e)	A successful applicanton a permanentjob posting may not apply on a subsequent posting for a period of four (4) months from the date cf his final selection. This period would be extended to six (6) months for alljobs itemized in 12.01 (c).
(0 A selectiai under this section shall not be deemed to be a
promotion.
(g)	The Company shall post the results of thejob posting withinfive (5) days ofthejob posting coming down.
(h)	Employees who are absentfrom work may have a member of the Union executive and/or bargaining committee or stewards sign a posting on their bdialf, provided they will be available to work when required.
(i)	The successful applicant will be placed In tte new classification within twenty-five (25) working days of notice cf selection, provided thejob U Immediately available. If the employee has not been moved within this 25 working day period, he/she until such movement will be eligible to sign another job posting with the four/slx month eligibility clause (as per Artide 12.01 (e)) being waived. Once the employee is moved Into the new classification, the four/slx month eligibility period would revert back to the original date cf sslectim.
(j)	Following layoff, employees shall be recalled in accordance with their seniority rights as provided in this collective agreement,
24
12,02	(a) Temporaryjob openings will he. posted when the opening is
known to the Companythatitwill existfor at least eight (8) weds from the time that the Company beoares aware of it. It is understood that people who have been selected for temporaryjob postings may be used in future temporary openings vtere there is an immense amount of training involved, be, leadhand, material handler, cement room, foam room, quality control,shipper,worklngjob controller, launch program, development, mill room (Plant 1), all set-up personnel, job facilitator, and others as mutually agreed upon by the parties. The Company and Union shall meet to discuss these temporary openings and It te understood that these openings shall in no way hinder the permanent job posting procedure, Temporaryjob postings should not exceed thirty-five (35) weds in duration unless mutually agreed upon by both parties. It Is understood that for all jobs other than those mentioned above, a one (1)sUp job posting procedure will apply.
(b)	Successful applicants to temporary openings will in no regard be able to maintain the position when the incumbent returns to weak, unless successful on a subsequent permanent job posting. Upon the incumbent's return to work, ca: when the temporary opening is no longer necessary, employees who filled the openings will be moved out before permanent employees.
ARTICLEXIH * LEAVE OF ABSENCE
13.01	The Company agrees to grant leave of absencein cases of bona
fide illness or injury, with seniority accumulated as provided for in Section 10.04(f). The duration of such leave shall be dependent on the nature of the illness or injury, the medical aspects of the case and the effort the employee is making to restore himself to normal health.
13.02	The Company may grant leave of absence requested in writing by an employee for other than illness or injury. The Company will
25

respond^ on the appropriate form, to such request within two (2) weeks of its receipt. This leave shall be in Writing and seniority shall be. accumulated as provided for in Sectim 10.04(f).
13.03	Attendance at LhLcn meetings as delegates or attendance at Union schools will be considered a good reason for leave cf absence, provided two weeks notice be givento the Company, if possible. No more than four employees per {riant shall be delegates or students at Union schools at any one time. unless mutually agreed upon. It is understood that the delegates or students in each plant will not all be. from one (l)department or area, Notwithstanding, every effort possible will be made to release the nine (9) Union executive rrefbers for Unicn and Executive meetings*
13.04	An employee who is absent from work because of a compensable injury incurred in the employ of the Company is not consideredto be on leave cf absence in the meaning cf this article, Such employee shall return to work when medically fit to do SO subject to the seniority provisions cf this Agreement. This section in no w^y restricts the Company's rights under Article IV.
13.05	An employee who returns from a leave of absence shall be placed on ajob in accordance with his seniority and this Agreement.
13.06	Leave cf absence without loss of seniority dsll be granted to
pregnant employees with at least thirteen (13) weeks	employment prior
to commencement of the seventeen (17) week period before delivery is expectedto occur, as certifiedby a legally qualified medical practitioner, or a shortsr period if in the Written opinion of the practitionerit is sufficient.
(a) The Company may require the pregnant employee to commence her leave of absence prior to the commencement of the eleven week period if in the opinion of the Company she cannot reasonably
26
perform her duties. However, the Company and the Union agree. to meet prior to such Leave of Absence to ascertain if the employee can be placed in
some other position without loss of seniority.
(b)	The Company vill grant the pregnant employee six (6) weeks leave of absence following delivery, or such shorter period as in the written opinion of a qualified medical practitioner is considered sufficient, or such longer period not to exceed six months as in the written opinion cf a qualified medical practitioner is considered necessary.
(c)	Parental leave will be granted to any employee
according to the Employment S	ct
13.07	Any bargaining unit employee with at least one year seniority may be granted a leave of absence for a maximum of one year to work in the labour movement, without loss of seniority. It is understood that the. Company will not be responsible for benefits, however the said employee will have the option of paying theirportion for any required benefits.
This clause vail also be limited to one person being absent from each plant at a tine.
ARTICLE XIY • HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
14.61 The normal work period shall be 40 normal hours per week consisting of 8 normal working hours per day upon each normal work day scheduled Monday through Friday inclusive. The starting hours each day shall be determined by the Company. Bearing in mind such factors as "customer requirements", the Company viU, where practical, give the Union forty-eight (48) hours notice prior to implementing any changes,
14.02	Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 14.01, when the Company schedules a third shift (night), employees assigned to that shift,
27
may commence their normal work period prior to midnight Sunday or Monday.
14.03	Overtime payment for hours worked in addition to the normal eight hours and up to twelve hours on any day Monday through Friday shall be paid at tine and one-half and all hours worked over twelve on any one of these, days shall be paid at double time rate. Overtime payment for hours in addition to the nornal hours an Saturday and up to 8 hours of overtime shall he time and one-half.
Overtime payment for hours worked in addition to 8 hours of overtime on Saturday and in addition to normal hours on Sunday shell be double time.
(a)	Overtime, hours on Saturday shall be the hours between midnight Friday and midnight Saturday, except for those which occur during the employee's nounal hours.
(b)	Overtime hours on Sunday shall be the hours between midnight Saturday and midnight Sunday, except for those which occur during the employee's neural hours.
fc) Employees called into work before the regular starting time of their scheduled shift, to prepare the plant for the first shift of production following a plant shut down, shall receive pay at double time for all hours worked immediately before the. starting time of the first shift of production, provided they work more than 8 hours during that shift.
14.04	(a) When deemed necessary by the Company, employees will
be asked to work acthtioal hours on normal work days in the following manner until the required number has been attained.
(1)	By seniority within the group required normally doing the
job on shift.
28
(2)	Bf seniority -within the group required, working on the weekend shift
(3)	HsdrBS employees witinn groupnormally doing thejob.
i
(4)	By seniority in group on same shift (not normally doing the
job).
(5)	By shift seniority (working an required drift) people who are familiar with and who are capable of doing the job.
(6)	Probationary employees who are capable of doing the job.
(7)	Company will order by reverse seniority employees normally doing the job. These employees shall include probationary employee6if they are capable of performing thejob at a satisfactory level.
(b)	Overtime following the 3:25 p,m. shift or the 11:55 p,tn. shift fafll be offered to employees in the area in order of seniority ,(e,g„ employee wcridng to 2:55 p,m. will be offered overtime by seniority for 3:25 p,m. However, employee will not be paid from 2:55 p,m, to 3:35 p,m, while waiting for overtime to begin).
(c)	When overtime work is required following a regular shift, due to unknown absenteeism on tie. incoming shift, the utility person on the out-going shift WaEL be asked to work, and other employees needed, regardless of seniority. The term “utility person” shall apply only to Plant 1,
Unknown, being defined as: any absence not reported to production management 10 minutes before the Stan of the incoming shift.
29
(d)	When deemed necessary by the Company, employees will be asked to work additional hours on Saturday and Sunday in the following manner until the required number has been attained
(1) By seniority within the group required normally doing the
job on shift.
(2)	By seniority in group normally doing job - shifts 2 and 3 (by master seniority over both drifts).
(3)	IHaras employees within group normally doing the job (working on required drift), then 2 and 3 shifts.
(4)	By seniority in group on same shift (not normally doing the job), then shifts 2 and 3.
(5)	By shift seniority (working on required drift first) people who are familiar with and who are capable of doing the job.
(6)	Probationary employees who are capable of doing thejob.
(7)	Company will order by reverse seniority employees normally doing the job. These employees shall include probationary employees if they are capable of satisfactorily performing the work.
(e)	Who normally perform the work shall mean, where the employee is listed as working on the previous week's crew lists. When overtime is needed on Sunday, but not known until Saturday, it shall be offered to the same employees who would have been asked cn Friday according to the crew lists, if they are actually at work on Saturday.
The Company wH. have fulfilled its obligation under this section, if on the date it is arranging the overtime work, it asks the employees who are actually at work on that date using the order of
30
procedure as stated in this Section 14.04, It might be necessary to telephone employees working on shift 3 (midnight drift), but if the 3rd shift employee cannot be reached with one (1) telephone call, the Company will have fulfilled its obligation to that employee under this sectdm.
(f)	Employees will be asked once. If the employee does not have a definite answer, it vilL be, considered a "no" by the supervisor and that employee will be required to advise the supervisor as soon as possible when it becomes a definite yes.
(g)	The Company will post the list of those employees who have agreed to work the Saturday and Sunday overtime, on the main bulletin board and at the punch clock by 12:00 p,m, on Thursday.
(h)	The time limit to grieve may be extended in the case of
overtime.
(i)	Trainee is defined as an employee with master seniority but no seniority in the group in which they are working. Probationary
employee is defined as an employee with no master seniority.
14.05	The Company does not guarantee to provide work for any employees for regularly assigned hours or for any other hours.
14.06	When an employee is requestedto change shifts other than on a week-end, he shall be paid at the rate of time and one-half (1-1/2) for hours worked on thefirst shift to which he is transferred.
This section will not apply when the drift change is ma& under sub-section 11,02 (d) or when the change is made at the request of the employee or because of an arrangementmade between employees.
31
14.07	A day shall consist cf twenty-four hours and shall commence with the startingtime of an employee's shift, If an employee's starting time is changed in mid-week (e.g. from 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 am.), the employee wi 11 be paid time, and one-half for one hour. However, if the shift is to be changed to later (e.g. 7:00 am. to 8:00 a.m.), the employee will receive straight pay.
14.08	The regular pay period shall be one week cf seven days regardless of the day upon which it starts.
3
T
14*09 It is the function cf the foremen or assistant foremen to develop proper methods, perform experimental setup work and instruct operators as to the proper methods and quality required. It is agreed that foremen and assistant foremen or other excluded personnel will not perform operations regularly performed by employees in the bargaining unit except for brief periods as necessity requires as in emergencies or when required as qualified employees are not immediately available.
A notice shall be. posted on the bulletin board and the Plant Superintendent's office.
14.10	(a) When direct or indirect labour employees are required to
rotate on three drifts, lunch periods forthese employees shall be reduced to twenty minutes and the Company shall pay for the lunch periods.
(b) Employees crewed to a three (3) drift rotation who are transferred to an operation on a two (2) shift rotation, shall receive a twenty (20) minute paid lunch for the first day transferred to such operation.
(c)	When only one maintenance department employee is working in the plant (regardless cf shift) his lunch period shall be reduced to twenty minutes and the Company shall pay for the lunch period.
32
(d)	In order to qualify, employees eligible for paid lunches under sub-sections (A), (B) and (C) above must remain on Company property during their lunch periods.
ARTICLE XV -WAGE S AND SPECIAL WAGE PRACTICES
15.01	The Company shall provide one ten minute rest period during
each half shift.
(a)	The Company shall provide one three minute wash up period at the end cf each regular shift.
(b)	The Company shall provide one ten minute rest period at the beginning of an overtime period followingthe regular 8 hour shift if the overtimeperiodis scheduledto last for M/2 hours.
/
15.02	The Company shall pay a shift premium during the life of this
agreement as follows:
Afternoon shift 40 cents per hour Midnight shift 40 cents per hour
15.03	For factory injuries requiring first aid or outside medical attention, payment shall be allowed for the remainder of the shift during which the accident occurred or until the employee returns to work, whichever is the sooner. Payment to indirect and direct labour nonincentive employees shell be at the employee's base rate and payment to direct labour incentive employees shall be the employee's base rate x 1,2 per hour. The above with respect to medical attention, applies only when the employee agrees to be seen by a doctor immediatelyavailable in Stratford.
15.04	(a) Experimental work shall be paid for at the base sate of the
non-incentive employee so engaged and at the base rate x 1,2 per hour of the incentive employee so engaged.
33
(b) Inventory work ^lallhe paid for at the base rate of the non* incentive employee so engaged, and at the base rate x 1.2 per horn' of the incentive employee so engaged.
15.05	In the event the Company falls to open the Company premises or that an employee reports to work on his regular &rift without having been advised a minimum of four (4) hours prior to the commencement of his Shift not to report, he will be given at least four
(4)	hours work, or pay for any part of the four hours not worked. A Union representatives,or when not available, an hourly employee will be present when phone calls ate placed. This clause shall not apply when there is a lack of work due to any m e or more of the following causes:
Eue, flood, labour dispute, failure of power, major mechanical breakdown, or other cause beyond the control of the Company.
15.06	An employee who is specially called in to work in any emergency at any tme after thecloseofhis shift, dallbe through when this emergency is over, but shall nevertheless receive pay at tine and one-half for a minimum of four hours.
15.07	The Company agrees that in the event of the death cf a husband, wife, father, mother, brother, sister, son, daughter, father-in-law, mother-in-law, grandparents, spouse's grandparents, grandchildren,brother-in-law, sister-in-law, daughter-in-law, son-in-law, step parent, step child, common-law spouse, common-law spouse's parents or common-law children of a non-probationary employee, which may necessitate an employee to be absent from his scheduled work within his normal work week, claim for payment for lost time on normal hours up to three consecutive working days, including tie day of the funeral, may he made to the Company, afta: the occurrence and with submission cf proof. Payment
34
for such time so lost shall be. at the employee's base rate plus shift premium where applicable, except that for an incentive employee, payment will be at the base rate x 1.2 plus shift premium where applicable. If the employee is eligible for any other form of remuneration to which the Company contributes, payment shall not be made under this section for such day or days. Extra unpaid compassionate leave for family members, may be granted to an employee by submitting notification to the Company in writing.
15.08	(a) The Company agrees to pay an employee who serves as a
juror or a subpoenaed crown witness in a legally constituted court, the difference between his earnings as a juror or subpoenaed crown witness and what he would have earned at base rate had he worked his scheduled shift In the case cf an incentive employee, payment vail be the difference between his earnings as a juror or subpoenaed crown witness and what he would have earned at base rate x 1,2 per hour had he worked his scheduled shift. In order to be eligible for payment, employees must notify their supervisors within twenty-four hours after receipt of notice of selection for jury duty or notice to appear as a crown witness and must furnish a vaittHi statement from the appropriate public official showing the date and time served and the amount of pay received.
(b) If an employee selected for jury duty or to appear as a subpoenaed crown witness is working other than the day shift, an employee from the day shift who is qualified will be chosen by the Company to substitute for the selected employee on his shift. It is agreed that no more than three employees at any one time will be eligible for this jury duty pay subsidy.
15.09	(a) The rate of pay of an employee when permanently
transferred from one job to another, for reasons such as displacement through seniority procedures or application for transfer shall bei
35

(1)	The rate of pay of the job if the job is a direct labour incentivejob.
(2)	The rate cf pay he is entitled to for that job under occupational group seniority if the job is a direct labour non-incentivejob or an indirect labourjob.
@)Thebase rate cf pay for an employee transferred to another job because of his selection through ajob posting dBllbe:
(1)	The starting base rate of thejob to which he is transferred if it is higher than his base rate at time of transfer; or
(2)	The base rate he was receiving at the time of transfer if it is higher than the starting base rate of thej ob to which he is transferred, or
(3)	The top base rate of thejob to which he is transferred if it is lower than the base rate he was receiving at the time cf transfer.
(c)	When an employee is temporarily transferred out of seniority from his regularjob, not pool, he shall be paid at the base rate of his regularjob or the base rate of the job transferred to, whichever is the greater, plus any earned incentive pay. It is the Intent tf this clause that the junior person holding seniority within the classification that is the most easily no^d be die one to take the move.
15.10	(a) The base rates for the employees in each division shall be as
set out in Schedule no. 2(A), (B), (C) and Schedule no. 3(A), (B), (C) which are attached hereto and form part of this Agreement.
(b) Earnings for the employees in each division as provided in section 2.01(b) shall be the greater of:
36
(1) The base rate or
(2)	The base rate plus that percentage of the base rate by which the employee's production on a full shift plus overtime exceeds the standard cf production as predetermined by the Company.
(3)	In the event of overtime, the employee shall be paid on the basis provided in the next preceding paragraph plus 50% of his base rate per hour overtime, worked on Monday through Saturday and 100% of his base rate per hour worked on Sunday.
15.11	(a) Pursuant and subject to the provisions of Section 4.01(E)
the Company has established the incentive pay plan described in Schedule no, 4 hereto annexed and made a part hereof,
(b) Only employees i n the bargaining unit who are working on incentive will be time studied for the purpose of establishing incentive Standards.
15.12	A Cost of Living Allowance vail be established in accordance with changes in the official Consumer's Price Index published by Statistics Canada (1986-100) and hereinafter referred to as the Consumer's Price Index. Added to the gross earnings will be. a Cost cf Living Allowance calculated on hours paid for, and on the basis of a one (1) cent adjustment for each change of 0,12 in the Consumer Price Index.
Adjustments wH be. made quarterly in each year of this Agreement in accordance with the following schedule:
Calculations vill be made each December, March, June and September during this Agreement using the Consumer Price Index in effect on September 1, 1995 (July 1995 Index) to determine the amount of
37
increase in cents, and all increases will be include in the employee's Cost of Living Allowance.
The Cost of Living Allowance will be adjusted up or down in accordancewith the foregoingyearly schedules and in each case beginning with the first pay period in the month for which the adjustment is scheduled. In no event will a decline in the Consumer Price Index below the established base of October 1, 1995 (Septemberl995 Index)provideabasis for a farther reduction in the baserate.
In the event the Bureau of Statistics shall not issue the appropriateIndex before the beginning of one of the pay periods referred to in the above schedules. any adjustmentsin the allowance required by such Index shall be effective at the beginning of the first pay period after receipt of such Index.
No adjustments retroactive or otherwise shall be made in the amount of f/tecostof living due to any revision which later may be made in the published figures for the Index for any month on the basis of which the allowance shall have been determined. Continuance of the Cost of Living Allowance shall be contingent upon the availability cf the Index in its present form using 1986—100.
15.12	(a) There will be a Cost cf Living fold-in to the base rate of
$ 2.00 effective September 1,1995 and $ 1.00 effective October 1,1997.
ARTICLEXVI - PAID HOLIDAYS
16.01
(a) The following shall be paid holidays:
New Yeggs day	Thanksgiving day
Good Friday	Remembrance
Queen's birthday	December24
Canada day	Christmas day
day
38
Civic holiday	December 26
labour day	December 31
(b) The mount of holiday pay shall be 10 hours at the base rate without shift bonus for all incentive employees and 8 hours at base rate withoutshift bonus for all non-incentive employees.
16.01	(c) For a Mai period of one year in 1997, employees will be allowed to substitute a 'floater' day to be taken in place of Remembrance Day at any time during that year, with prior approval from the Com pany. The em ployeewould be required to give two vadc's notice when they make their request.
Other than employees taking advantage of the above-mentioned paragraph, the Remembrance Day holiday vwll remain unchanged.
16.02	An employee who works a scheduled shift on a holiday or the mutually agreed date of holiday shall be paid two times (2x's) his hourly rate for all hours worked in addition to the holiday pay, if applicable.
16.03	(a) The employee in order to qualify for such holiday pay, must have completed 30 calendar days of employment with the Company and must work the regular scheduled shift immediately preceding and following the holiday, unless absent one of such shifts, but not both, with good reason acceptable to the Company. Good reason shall include layoffs, approved leave of absence, union business, etc.
An employee who does not qualify for holiday pay because he has not completed 30 calendar days cf employment with the Company on the date the Holiday is observed shall be entitled to pay for such holiday
39
retroactively when he has completed 30 calendar days of employment, if he has fulfilled all other qualifyingrequirementsof this section.
If an employee is laid c£E within 5 working days prior to observanceof the holiday and remains laid cflf following the observance of the holiday, but is recalled and reports within 5 working days followingthe holiday, the employee will be eligiblefor holiday pay.
(b) In order to have their reason acceptable to hie Company, the employees must report their inability to report for work to their foreman or plant superintendent and be prepared to provide proof at a later date. If an employee is requested to get a Oxter's Certificate (not sickness and accidentpapers), the Company will pay up to $5,00 for the certificate if the employee is charged for it.
16.04	When one of the holidays falls during the vacation period of an employee otherwise eligible for such holiday pay, he wIL he paid for the holiday in accordance with this article. Such holiday shall be. observed either the day immediately following or preceding the employee's vacation period, at the Company'sdiscretion.
16.05	Holidays referred to herein occurring on a Saturday shall be observed on the previous Friday and holidays occurring on a Sunday shall be observed on the following Monday unless mutually agreed upon by both Company and Uhlm. With respect to Canada Day, the Company shall have the right when it occurs on a Tuesday or Wednesday, to reschedule observance of the holiday to the previous Monday, and when it occurs on a Thursday, to reschedule observance of the holiday to the following Friday.
16.06	Employees will receive one (1) day off with pay, or pay in lieu of, if they report to work each regular scheduled drift for 200 consecutive working days.
40

Employees wsCCL receive three (3) working days offwith pay, or pay in lieu c£, if they report to work each regular scheduled drift for 400 consecutiveworking days.
Days may be taken vdJii themutual consent cf the parties either together, separately a: in half days, (two (2) 1/2 days cf four (4) hours each equal one (1) day), keeping in mind that production requirements must be maintained at all times. Accumulation of days will not be allowed,
Paid holidays, bereavement days, and union business shall be counted as days worked. Four day, 10 hour shifts shall be counted as 5 days worked.
An employee's accumulation of days shall not be interrupted by annual vacations or lay-offs.
ARTICLE XVII - VACATIONS	y
17,01	(a) Employees with 30 years or more cf Company service as cf
June 30 of the year of vacation, va]l receive 5 weeks vacation wiih vacation pay cf 11,5% cf their gross earnings from July 1 of the previous year to June 30 cf the current year. At the Company's discretion, the third, fourth and fifth weeks may not necessarily be given consecutively with any other regular vacation period.
.	-r
(W Employees wiih 25 years or more cf Company service as of June 30, of toe year vacation VflJl receive 5 weeks vacation wiih vacation pay cf 119&m£ their gross earnings from July 1 cf the previous year to June
30 of the current year. At the Company's discretion, the third, fourth and fifth weeks may not necessarily by given consecutively with any other regular vacation period.
41
17.02	Employees with 20 years ar more of Company service as cf June 30 of the year of vacation will receive 5 vjedcs vacation with vacation pay of 10% cf their gross earnings from July 1 of the previous year to June 30 cf the current year. At the Company's discretion, the third, fcurtii and fifth weeks may not necessarily be given consecutively with any other regular vacation period.
)
‘i
17.03 Employees with fifteen years or more service but less than 20 years cf Company service as of June 30 cf the year of vacation will receive four weeks vacation with vacation pay cf 9% of their gross earnings from July 1 ofthepreviousyeartoJune30ofthecurrentyear. At the company's dLsretLcn, the third and fourth weeks may not necessarily be given consecutively with any other regular vacation period.
3" 3
17.04	Employees with ten years cr more service but less than 15 years of Company service as of June 3 0 of the year cf vacation will receive three weeks vacation with vacation pay cf %% of their gross earnings from July 1 cf the previous to June 30 cf the current year. At the Company's discretion the third week may not necessarily be given consecutively with any other regular vacation period.
3	17.05 Employees with five years or more service but less than 10
years cf Company service as of June 30 cf the year of vacation will receive three weeks vacation with vacation pay of 7% cf their gross earnings from July 1 of the previous year to June 30 of the current year. At the Company's discretion the third week may not necessarily be given consecutively with any other regular vacation period.
17.00 Employees with less than five years of Company service as cf ✓	June 3 0 cf the year of vacation will receive two or one weeks vacation and
4% of their gross earnings from July 1 of the previous year to June 30 ofthe current year in compliancewith the vacation with pay section of the Ontario Employment StandardsAct.
42
17.07	When an employee voluntarily terminates his or her employment with the Company, the employee will be paid any accrued vacation pay in accordance with the vacation pay percentages of Sections 17,01 through 17.06 in which the employeeis classifiedbecausecf the employee's service credit at the tine of said termination.
17.08	An employee requesting all or a portion of his vacation entitlement shall do so in writing; and, die Company will respond on the appropriate form, to such request within two (2) weeks cf receipt of such request,where possible.
17.09	When an employee with at least one (1) year cf Company service credit has been absent from work for mare than three (3) months because of compensable injury or illness during a vacation year, and for that reason only, his vacation pay calculated in accordance with the preceding section of this article is reduced, the vacation pay to which be Is entitled shall be increased providing the employee has not violated Company safety rules and Instruction when Injured, and the employee has utilized his fall vacation entitlement in the same vacation year. The intent of this clause Is to prevent pyramiding of payments.
The employee's vacation pay shall be increased so as to reflect no loss in vacation pay for any part of time lost over three (3) months, but not exceeding nine (9) months in die calendar year. Payment shall be at base rate times forty (40) hours per eligible week for a non-incentive employee and base rate at one point two times (l,2x's) forty (40) hours per eligible vredc for an incentive employee.
ARTICLE XVHI ■ MISCELLANEOUS
18.01 The Company will provide a bulletin board in a mutually satisfactory location in each plant for the convenience of the Union in
43
posting notices cf Union activity. Ail such notices must be signed by an officer or his authorized representativefcr approval before being posted.
18.02	(a) The Company will furnish and maintain, without charge to
the employee, special wearing apparel considered necessary by mutual agreement between the Company and the Union. The Company agrees to pay a safety boot allowanceof fifty (50) dollars, substantiated by receipts, in a two (2) year period, to employees who work in areas that have been mutually agreed upon by the Joint Health and Safety committee, the Company, and the Union as mandatory safety shoe areas,
(b) The Company will supply the first pair of prescription safety glasses and safety frames with side shields which meet C,S,A, .sta&dards for all seniority employees who work in areas that have been mutually agreed upon by the Joint Health and Safety committee, the Company, and the Union as mandatory safety glass areas, The choice of supplier and style of the lenses and frames will be made by the Company.
The Company will supplement lenses for the aforementionedsafety glasses that are accidentally damaged or broken, to a maximum cf fifty (50) dollars per two year period. It must be definitely established through Investigation that the said glasses vjete broken in the course of the employee's regular work and not from a person's negligence or carelessness on t he part cf the employee.
18.03	Welfare benefits shall be provided as outlined in Schedule No.U
18.04	Technological Change
For the purpose of this Agreement, the term "Technological Change" shall be understood to mean the introduction cf equipment and/or
44
material of a different nature than that previously used, which changes the terms and conditions or security of employment of a major number of employees.
The Company agrees to give as much notice as possible and to meet with the Union Executive prior to such changes being implemented.
"Technological Change" does not include normal layoffs resulting from a decrease in the amount of wackto be done.
(a)	Employee Training Program
The Company and Union recognize the importance of providing training opportunities for all employees so that they can handle technological changes and/or improve their skills and allow the opportunity to advance to jobs of greater responsibility and higher pay. Because of changing Conditions and in particular technological changes, new approachesto employee training may be required.
I
This being recognized, the Company will undertake to introduce a training program wherever necessary. The purpose of this training program is to nest, the training needs and as these needs change, the program may have to be modified.
18.05	The Company and the Union agree that better cross training for
alljobs is necessaryto ensure a more viable and competitive operation. The parties mutually agree to implement training whenever production requirements permit, with the understanding that this can only be accomplished while maintaining consistency and efficiency throughout the plant as well as having a willing and enthusiasticworkforce. The Company welcomes any suggestions on training from the Union at any time and agrees to meet periodically throughout the tarn of the Collective Labour Agreement in order to explore any new ideas or techniques.
45
ARTICLE XIX • SKILLED TRADES
19.01 AU employees classified in the skilled trades department are subject to all the provisions cf the collective agreement, except as specifically provided in the skilled trades section.
Soiled trades for the purpose of this agreement shall be those trades and classifications listed below:
Electrician
Industrial Millwright
and others as mutually agreed upon by the parties,
The term "journeyperson" as used In this agreement shall mean any person!
a)	who presently holds a joumeyperson's classification in the skilled trades occupation as listed above, or;
b)	who has served a bona fide apprenticeship cf four (4) years • 8,000 hours or five (5) years • 9,000 hours and holds a certification which substantiates his/her claim of such service or;
c)	who has eight (8) years of practical experience in the AilM trade or classification in which he/sbe claims joumeyperson's designation and can prove same. A CAW joumeyperson's card will be accepted as proof in conjunction with a Ministry of Skills and Development Certificate.
d)	any further employment in the skilled trades occupations as listed above, after signing cf this agreement, shall be limited to journeypersons and apprentices;
46
lists shall be maintained by basic trades and terchangeable with other trades;
imployees in any skilled trade classifications shall have Iteir total seniority applied in such siuiiea trades classification. Employees entering a skilled trades classification after September 30, 1995, shall have a seniority date established as of the date of entry In such classifies tion;
g)	separate sarinrity list for each plant;
h)	a production employee will not exerdse his seniority in any skilled trades classification, nor will any skilled trades employee exerdse seniority in any production classification,
In the event of a reduction in force In the skilled trades department, employees will belaid off from their respective group, in accordance with the following procedure;
1)	probationary employees;
2)	apprentices;
3)	the mostjunior employee within the classification;
4)	recalls will be In the reverse order of IzgcfE.
In the event of a reduction in the workplace In any of the skilled trades classification,the Individual affected will be laid eff from the plant except for an apprentice vfoo, if laid c£E, may exercise his total master seniority Including time sewing apprenticeship.
In the event cf recall from layoff, the tradesperson will only be eligible to recall to the group from which he was laid df.
47
In the event of the abolition of a p arlkul a r skilled u Company and the Union will meet to discuss the bumping *-abolished skilled tradesman Into a remaining trade. It is agreed a
understood that it may not he possible to accomplish this integration due to sauori.ty and/or skills.
Should a skilled trades employee become medically unfit and u na b 1 e to follow his skilled trade, both the Company and the Union will co-operate in endeavouringto place such an employee on ajob he Is capable of performing In accordance with Article 11.02, and he will carry his total plant-wide seniority to suchj ob.
In the eventthat an employee removed from a skilled trades classification Is subsequently cleared to return to such classification, he
will he returned with no loss of seniority provided he exercises such election within fourteen (14) days of his receipt of medical clearance,
19.02	Tools
The Company will allow a tool allowance for the purchase of new tools In the amount cf one hundred and fifty (150) dollars effective in the first year, one hundred and seventy-five (175) dollars elective Inthe second year, and two hundred (200) dollars effective h the third year, substantiated by receipts, for all skilled trades employees.
19.03	Dues
The Company agrees to deduct Canadian Skilled Trades Council dues as adopted by the Canadian Skilled Trades Council, 1/2 hour per year.
48
The first such dues deduction will be made from the employee's first pay following completion of their probationary period. Thereafter, dues deduction will be made in January of each succeeding year cr upon completion of one (1) month's work in the calendar year. These deductions, along with the names of the employees shall be remitted to the financial secretary of the local Uhim.
19.04	job Security and Outside Contracting
It is the policy of the Company, that outside con tractors will not be utilized to perform work normally done by seniorityemployees.
(a)	In the event utilization of outside contractors is required, the following procedures will take place:
(!) the need will be reviewed with the Union representatives;
(U) if it is work normally performed by seniority employees, It will be offered to our skilled trades first, on an overtime basis, provided it can be done in a timely and cost efficient manner. It Is the intent of this clause that, where possible, certified skilled trades in the other facility will be asked before outside contractors. When this happens, seniority will not be accumulated from plant to plant.
(Ill) the use of outside contractors shall be determined by the Company.
(b)	(1) The Company will not eliminate jobs or deprive employees c£ overtime by outsourcing work performed by our skilled tradesman when the work may be performed in a timely and cost efficient manner. Notwithstanding, it is understood that technical expertise from SiP.M.T.D,, cr other internal or external organizations may be utilized from time to time for new equipment car critical problem
49
__\tA
solving objectives. When possible, skilled trades personnel will be present to gain the necessary knowledge to effectively service the equipment in the future.
(U) It is the intent that all outside contractors will be completely self-sufficient with tools, equipment and supplies where practical. Exceptions will be approved by toe Maintenance Supervisor or designate,
19.05	Digpfep; in Trades
Where disputes have been resolved pertaining to normal duties and responsibilities in the skilled trades area, they will be recorded and used la the future as guidelines fee resolving any future disputes cf toe same or similar nature.
19.06	The Company and the Union agree that when there are complaints and grievances pertaining to skilled trades employees, any discussions and resolves that involve the Union will Include the appropriate skilled tradeslocal Union representstiYe(s),
The chairperson of the Union committee may request the employee relations departmentto arrange a special meeting to hear the skilled trades representative's views concerning problems in connection with work assignments of employees in skilled trades classifications and to discuss toe matter. Such special conference will be attended by the sHHpri trades committee person, a representative of the section of management organization in charge cf the skilled trades activity Involved, and a representative of the personnel and Industrial relations department. The trades director of the National Union or his specified staff representative may attend the conference.
50
The committee shall attempt to resolve the matter. If unable to resolvethe case, the case may be withdrawn without prejudice by the Uhim or may be appealed to an arbitrator for final and binding decision. Such arbitrator shall be a person who is technically competent to deal with such a problem and will be selected under Clause 8,01 or
8.02	cf the general agreement.
Skilled Trades Apprentices:
General
1)	The purpose cf the appendix Is to define the provisions governing registration, education, seniority, and all other matters pertaining to skilled trades apprenticeships,
2)	Provisions of the collective agcearent shall apply to all skilled trades apprentices,
3)	A Joint Apprenticeship Committee shall be composed of an equal number of members, two (2) from management and two (2) from the skilled trades classification, one (i) of which will be the elected skilled trades commttteeperson.
The function of this committee shall be to advise on all phases of the Apprenticeship Training Program. This committee shall meet as required. At least one (1) member of the committee from the Union and one (1) member cf the committee from the Company, who shall act as a chairperson, must be present in order to administer the Apprenticeship Standards. For areas of dispute that cannot be resolved, the chairperson's decision will be final, subject to the grievance procedure,
4)	Registration
51
All apprentices will be registered with the Ontario
Department cf Labour and the Ontario Training Adjustment Board. Ail apprentices will sign a written Apprenticeship Agreement with the Company.
Initial Education Requirements
An apprentice will be required to have all Ontario Academic Credits or equivalent. Exception to these requirements may be made by the Apprenticeship Committee.
<S) School Attendance
It te geed by the Company that all apprentices who are required to attend school on a full time basis through die block program (two months per year), acknowledged by die Ontario Skills
Apprenticeship Training Board will, upon proof of successful 1 completion, beentitled to a bonus of $700 less statutory deductions and I withholdings for each completed session(maximum cf three).
This bonus \£XL only be paid to those Individuals who return to ftill time work with the Company and remain In the apprenticeship training program.
7)	Completion cf Apprenticeship
An apprentice, upon completion cf his/her apprenticeship, shal receive the journeyperson’s classification and the applicable top rate cf pay. No certificates will be Issued by the Apprenticeship Branch, Ontario Department of Labour, unless approved ty die Joint Apprenticeship Co mm l free-.
8)	Seniority
52
The apprentices will exercise their seniority in their own classification. (For example-, if there are four (4) apprentices in the electrical trade and a reduction In this number is required due to lack of work, the first hired shall be the last laid off and the last laid off shall be the first to be reinstated.)
Upon satisfactory completion of the Apprenticeship Program, the apprentice will obtain skilled trades seniority as cf the starting date of the apprenticeship,minus any time spent on layoff or in production due to exercising bumping rights due to layoff. Accumulation of production seniority Is frozen and excludes time served in apprenticeship,
Employees who enter the Apprenticeship Training Program shall retain their relative plant seniority until such time as 1hey completetheir apprenticeship when the regular apprenticeship seniority rule shall apply. (The apprentice will exercise his relative plant seniority at a time of layoff from the apprenticeship.)
8) Ratio
The ratio shall not bemoe tdianone (1) apprentice to three
(3)journeypersons per plant.
The above mentioned ratio may be modified as the need arises upon approval of the Joint Apprenticeship Ctnnittee.
9)	Seniority Employees (Apprenticeships)
(a)	Notice of apprenticeship openings will be posted on the Company's bulletin boardas per the job posting procedure,
53
(b)	Applications for apprenticeship will be accepted by the Human Resources Department from seniority employees (employees within the bargaining unit) who consider themselves eligible under this program c£training,
(e) Applicants meeting the minimum requirements as per Number five (S) will be turned over to the Joint Apprenticeship Committee for approval or disapproval.
10)	Credit for Previous Experience
The committee and the representative from the Ontario Training Adjustment Board will review previous experience and determine If credit lor such service will be granted to the apprentice.
11)	Discipline
The Committee shall have the authority to discipline an apprentice and to cancel the apprenticeship agreement c£ the apprentice at any time for cause pertaining to his apprenticeship such
a)	Inability to learn;
b)	unsatisfactory work;
e) Lack cf interest in his/her work or education.
This shall not limit the right of the Company to discipline an apprentice ibrcause for matters not related to his/her training as an apprentice. Such discipline by the Company shall be subject to the grievance procedure-.
12)	Apprentices
54
Apprentices in each of the trades covered shall be paid a progressivelyincreasing schedule of wage as follows:
lstyear not less than75 % of f/iejoumeyperson's rate
2nd year not less than SO % ofthejoumeyperson's rate
3cdyear not less than S5 % of f/iejoumeyperson's rate
4th year not less than 9=0 % of f/iejoumeyperson's rate
5th year not less than 95 % of the joumeypersan's rate
It is understood that an employee accepted and working within the apprenticeship program shall experience no reduction in his/her regular base rate due to the transfer.
13)	Temporary Openings
When extra maintenance help Is needed due to an absence, the Company may post the opening and select a production employee to assist the skilled trades personnel. No seniority In skilled trades would be accrued* The rate of pay would be ten (10) cents per hour less than the first year apprentice base rate, This employee would only help with jobs that have limited responsibility such as snow removal, lubrication, or helping a catdfisdmillwright with his normal duties. The successful employee would be utilized for future openings.
This clause in no event would allow an apprentice or a millwright to be on layoff status at the same time.
ARTICLE XX - HEALTH AND SAFETY
20.01	(a) Company Duties
The Company shall institute and maintain all precautions reasonable In the circumstances for the protection of the workers, The
55
Company shall comply in a timely manner with the Occupational Health and Safety 2ct, and Its applicable regulations and codes of practice. All standards established under these laws shall constitute minimum acceptable practice to be Unproved upon by the agreement of the Joint Ifesfldftl and Safety Committee which shall be known throughout the following articles as "the Committee".
(b)	Employee Duties
All employees shall follow the company safety rules at all times while on the company premises and use or wear the personal protective dev Ices that the company requires to be used or worm
20.02	Joint Halih. and Safety Committee
(a)	(i) The Company and the Union agree to maintain the established Joint Health and Safety Committee in accordance with the
Occupational Health and Safety Act, (1978), as it is now written or hereafter amended. The Union representation on the Committee shall be up to four (4) members at each plant chosen by the Union. At no time .shall the number of Management members out number the number of Union members.
(U) Two Certified representatives in each plant and other Unionmembers to have W.H.S.C. Level 1.
(b)	Two (2) co-chairpersons shall be selected from and by the members of the Committee. One (1) of the co-chalrpersons from each plant shall be a Union member chosen by the Union members tf the committee. The other co-chairperson shall be a Management member selected by
the Management members cf the committee.
56
(c)	During all absences of the Union co-chairperson, the Company shall recognize an alternate cochairperson designated by the Union.
(d)	The Committee shall assist in creating a safe mid healthyplace to work, shall recommend actions 'which will improve the effectiveness of the Health and Safety program, and shall promote compliance with appropriate ]aws, regulations and codes of practice. The Company shall respond within 21 days to the recommendations of the Committee.
(e)	The Committee shall;
(1) hold regular nestirgs at least once a month or more frequently If mutually agreed upon by the thim and the Company cochairpersons for the review ol:
• reports of current accidents, Industrial diseases, accidents and incidents, and their causes and means of prevention.
- remedial action takHi or required by the reports of Investigations or inspections.
■ any other matters pertinent to health and safety.
(U) have access to all reports, records, and documents in the company's possession pertaining to health and safety matters,
(f)	" me spent by members of the Committee In the course of their duties shall be considered as time worked and shall be paid in accordance with the terms of this agreement
20.03	Right to Refuse
(a)	The Company shall ensure that all employees are informed that they have the right to refuse unsafe work which may harm them or another person.
57
(b) Ifa worker exercises his or her right to refuse he or she shall notify the Supervisor and a Union, member c£ the Health and Safety Committee. He or she shall stand by in a safe place and participate fully in the investigation of the hazard.
20.04	No Dlsdptinary Action
(a)	No employee shall be discharged, penaJLz-ed, coerced, Intimidated or disciplined for acting in compliance with the Occupational Health and Safety A± and its regulations,
(b)	No employee-shall be discharged, penalized, coerced, intimidatedor disciplined for refusing to work on a job, in any workplace, or operate any equipment which they believe would be unsafe or unhealthy to them, a workmate, or where it would be contrary to the applicable provincial health and safety laws and regulations.
20.05	Education and T r a Inin g
(a)	No employee shall be required or allowed to work on any job or qperafe any piece of equipment until they have received proper education, trainingand Instruction.
(b)	The Company will ensure that all members receive chemical hazard training. HristrainingshoW include WHMIS educationand training,
(c)	All Union members of the Joint Health and Safety Committee Will attend the followingcourses;
W.HtS.C, Level I • Workers Health and Safety Centre, Management representatives of the Committee may also attend this course.
58
At least 2 Union members will be certified from each plant.
All such training to be completed as soon as reasonably pram tile, but within one (1) year of the signing of the contract.
(d)	The Company will ensure that the lost time, per diem ac meal and travel and accommodation, U required will be paid for those who participate in education or training required by this Article,
20.06	Accident a d Incident Investigations
(a)	Every injury or near-miss which involved or would have involved a worker requiring outside medical aid must be investigated.
(b)	The Company shall immediately notify the Ministry cf Labour on all such critical Injuries as defined in O, Reg 834 under the Occupational Health and Safety Act.
A Unicn Health and Safety Representative in conjunction with a Management representative shall investigate the accident,
(c)	Accident and incidence investigation reports shall contain all pertinent information.
20.07	Right to Accompany Inspectors
(a)	ALnlon Health and Safety member shall be allowed to accompany government inspectors (health and safety) on an Inspection tour and to speak with the inspectorout of ear shot of any other person.
(b)	The Company shall give a copy of the reports or any other written documents, received from the inspector, to the Union Health and Safety representative.
59
20.08
Disclosure of Information
The Companyalso agrees to make any Information in their possession available to the committee upon request, Including the trade name or technical description (including chemical analysis of any compoundsand substances used In the plant).
20.09
Ventilation
The Company shall ensure that adequate local exhaust ventilation systans are installed on all sojtces of hazardous airborne conta min an ts mid must be maintained on a regular bads.
20,10	Noise Abatement
(a)	The Joint Ifelfh mid Safety Committee will conduct QoUe| measurements throughout the plant and identify areas and equipment by amount of noise found or produced,
(b)	The Company will endeavour to ensure that bi-annual audiometric tests are made available for all employees who are exposed to noise in excess of 80 dBA, The results cf the audiometric examinations will be given to each employee. Statistics shall be supplied to the Committee. Permanent records of audiometric lasts and noise level surveys will be maintained by the Company.
20.11
Access to the Workplace
The Comp any a gr ets that the national representative or his designate with reasonable advance notice may attend meetings cf the Joint Health and Safety Committeeand plant inspections.
60
20.12	National Day of Mourning
Each year on the National Day of Mourning on April 28 at 11:00 am., one 0) minute silence will be observed in memory of workers killed or Injured on thejob.
20.13	Heat Stress
Policy in the past has been that when employees find the working conditions affecting them to the point of Illness or extreme discomfort, each employee will approach the respective foreman who vmII in most esses write out a pass giving the employee permission to go home.
Employees staying on thejob have been allowed to work so long as It Is practical and possible to run a particular operation. Conditions vary from plant to plant and even within an Individual plant, so that it Is Impossible to talk in general terms, rather each situation must be assessed under specific conditions.
Customer requirements, our ability to work with short staff and the welfare of the employee, are all considered and we have been able in the pest, and should be able In the future, to effect a reasonable solution to satisfy all parties concerned.
20.14	Ergonomics
(a)	The Joint Haflih. and Safety Committee will address ergonomic needs on a priority basis and work toward modifying the workplace, work station, or tool to accommodate the worker.
(b)	The Company shall ensure that a member of the engineering department is given ergonomic issues a priority as well as sufficient
61
training so that prcfessicral advice to the committeemay be obtained from within the plant.
(c)	When an ergonomic concern is beyond the scope cf the Committee or company engineer, the Company shall hire a consultant
20.15	Lockout Program
(a)	Both parties recognize the need for a lockoutprocedure,
(b)	Lockouts are to be carried out by each employee during set-up, before any repair, troubleshooting, adjustment or servicing of all plant equipment. A proper machine lockout should block and de-energize all pcssi ble sources of motion.
(c)	Employees who may be at risk because they are required to set-up, repair, or maintain equipment, machinery, or system where a lockout Is required, shall receive lockout training.
(d)	The Companyshall provide employees with personal locks to ensure all equipment is locked out before being repaired, maintained, or set-up,
(e)	No supervisor or employee shall remove another psscn's lock, unless done in accordance with the Company's lockout procedure.
20.16	Protect!ye Clothing and Equipment
The Company will furnish and maintain, without charge to 1±e employee, special wearing apparel considered necessary by mutual agreement between the Company and the Union.
20.17	Confined Space Entry
62
(a)	The Joint Health and Safety committee shall review the work areas in the plant to determine those specific work activities they consider hazardous for confined space entry.
(b)	The Company in conjunction with the Committee shall develop confined space entry procedures including but not limited toi air sampling and ventilation, communication systems, personal surveillance arrangements, proper Instructions and training, rescue procedures, and personal protective equipment
(c)	The Company shall ensure such procedures are followed.
20.18	Medical Examinations
(a) The Company will provide safety related madical examinations and tests for employees as prescribed in the OccupationalHealth and Safety Act cf Ontario. If an employee participates in a prescribed medical surveillance program or undergoes prescribed medical examinations, the Company will pay:
1) the employee's costs for medical examinations or tests required by the medical surveillance program or required by legislation,
2)	the employee's reasonable travel costs respecting the examination or tests,
3)	the time the employeespends to undergo the examination or tests, including travel time, which shall be deemed work time for which the employee shall be paid at the applicablerate cf pay.
20.18 Alternate Work Program
63
The employer agrees to make every reasonable effort to provide suitable alternate work to any employee who Is unable to perform normal duties as a consequence of work-related illness or Injury. The Union agrees to council its members on the benefits cf cooperating in the Alternate Work Program. The employer agrees to establish ajoint alternate work committee between Union, management and employee upon Doctor's approval to provide a practical rehabilitation program that will assist in the return of Injured employees to a productive role, while meeting the provisions cf the Workers' Compensation Act The Company will endeavourto protect the employment cf the Injured employee according to our Collective Agreement.
ARTICLE XXI - DURATION OF AGREEMENT
21.01	Amendments to this Agreement may be made in writing by mtLBl consent of both parties.
21.02	This Agreement shall be in effect until the 30th day of September, 1998 and shall continue from year to year thereafter unless eitherparty gives irfcimsin writing cf its desire to amend this Agreement not earlier then three (3) months nor later than two ( 2) months prior to the date cf expiration.
This agreement constitutes the understanding between the parties, as weil as wrltteu and oral agreements, letters cf Intent and Letters of Understanding which are all deemed to be part of tins collective agreement.
Signed this 5th day cf October, 1995,
64
For The Company
Howard Hallam PatStears
For The National Automobile Aerospace, TransportationAnd General Workers Union Of Canada (Caw-Canada) And Its Local 4451 Wayne McKay Steven Paterson Jamie Ransley ftfeok Wraith Michael Wilson V433dan S tubbings Ruth Wagner
65
WELFARE ScheduleNb. 1 Company Benefits
Employees shall become eligible on the first billing date following the completion of their probationary period as outlined below.
Section 1
Non-occupational sickness and accident insurance coverage commencing cn the 1st day for hospitalization and accident, 2nd day for out-patient surgery, and 4th day for sickness for up to 32 weeks (employees with less than one (1) year of seniority would be entitled to a maximum benefit of 17 weeks).
The amount cf coverage per week will be:
First three weeks at 55 % of the employee’s weekly earnings to 55% of the XJIC maximum insurable earnings.
Up to 29 weeks at 60% of the employee’s weekly earnings up to 60% of the UIC maximum insurable earnings.
Ba^Lts for injuries due to an automobile accident to vfoirih the Ontario no-fault benefits schedule applies are payable only during the first week of disability.
A long tarn disability program will also be. implemented to over prolonged disability beyond 32 weeks. Maximum cf $1050/month -^Tr\ U ffective October 1,1995, $ 1100/montta effective Qrtrbnr 1,1996, and $
l	1150/montt effective October 1,1997 to be funded as faUcws:
A)	The Canada Pension Plan
B)	The Standard Products Disability Plan
66
Section 2
This would run until age 65 or until no longer disabled.
(A) Life Insurance and A,D, & D Effective October 1,1995 $ 21 Effective October 1,1996 $22, Effective October 1,1997 $ 23.
(B) The company will continue to carry $5,000.00 mu
insurance coverage far employees who retire on normal retirement pension, disability retirement pension or early retirement pension under the retirement pension plan agreement.
Section3 Hospital and Medical Coverage
The Company rail pay the single rate premium for all eligible employees and the family rate, premium for employees with dependents in cases where the employee is not covered by spouse with another employer, required by Ontario Health Insurance. Plan (OHIP) forward coverage.
Under 3 above, dependent means dependent recognized as such by theDepartment of Internal Revenue, Income Division.
Section 4
Commencing on the 1st day c£ February, 1978 the Company wilL pay the cost of a prescription drug plan ($1.00 deductible effective October 1, 1992) for employees and their dependents in cases where the employee is not covered by spouse vziih another employer. Dependent is as defined in Section3 above.
Sections
As of October, 1980 the Company shall establish a Company, Union Pension Plan to be known as
Retirement Benefit Plan Agreement
67
between
Standard Products (Canada) Limited and
National Automobile, Aerospace, Transportation and General Workers Ihicii of Canada (CAW-Canada) and its Local 4451
(sec Pension Agreement attached)
Section 6
The. Company will provide a dental plan for employees and their dependents based on the:
Effective Ccb±ar 1,1995 -1993 Qe±aL Fee Guide Effective Grtt-lvs-1,1996 -1994 DaitaL Fee Guide WTh I i'i=0-tvlTM-1,1997 -1995 Dental Fee Guide
I
a
Dental Expense Benefit
The Company vill provide dental expense benefits according lottos section for employees and their dependents, following completion of their probationary period.
1.	Maximum benefits - the maximum benefit amount payable for
basic and major services combined is $1600, per calendar year and for a lifetime for orthodontic services:
Effective Cfcfcbbarl, 1995 - $1750.
Effective Octoberl, 1996 - $1800.
Effective October 1,1997 - $1850.
68
2,	Treatment plan ■ When the total cost cf proposed dental work
is expected to exceed $300.00, the Company recommends that a treatment plan be filed for benefit determination prior to the date treatment is rendered.
3,	Eligible expense - Eligible expenses are those which are
recommended as necessary by a physician or dentist that are not in excess of the suggested fee for general practitioners in the 1993, 1994 and 1995 Dental Fee Guide respectively, cr the minimum fee specified in the 1993, 1994 and 1995 Denturist Fee Guide respectively, cf the Province of Ontario.
The Company reserves the right to use the least expensive method cf treatment that would provide a professionally adequate result. The eligible expenses are limitedto the following:
Basic Services -100% Payable Examinations
Complete Oral Examination (once every 2 years)
**(onceevery 3 years - adults only) Recall OralExamination (twice every 12 months)
Emergency Examination Specified QaL Area Examination
01101, 01102, 01103
01202,01203
01205
01402, 01502, 01602 01703,01802
Diagnostic Services
Radiographic Examination (x-ray)
Complete Series Intra-Oral Films (once every 2 years)
Periapical Films Occlusal Films Posterior Bite-Wing Films (twice in any 12 months)
02101,02102
0211 l-02125(inclusive)
02131-02136(inclusive)
02141-02146(inclusive)
69
Panoramic Film (once every 24 months) Cephalometric X-rays, Filins Tracing cf radiographs Interpretation of radiographs from another source
02601
02701-02704, 02709 02751,02752, 02759
02801,02802, 02809
Tarts and L a b o r at o r y Examinations Biopsy, Soft-HardTissue	04311-04313,04321-04323
CytologicalExamination	04401
Pulp \5ialiiy Tests	04501,04509
Diagnosticcasts	^^911
Preventive Services
Scaling and Polishing (twice in any 12 months)
** (are in 9 months • Adults only)
Flouride Treatment (twice in any 12 months)
** (once in 9 months - Adults only)
Oral Hygiene Instruction (once every 12 months)
Plaque CCntrol Program (once only, family maximum of $ 5 0)
Caries/Pain Control/Pulp Capping
Inteapraximaldiscing of teeth Space maintainers	15101-15104,15201, 15202, 15301,
15302, 15401-15403,15501,15601,15602
Nutritional counselling
(once every 24 months per family)	13101-13104, 13109
Polishing and finishinglEstcfLaticns	13301-13304, 13309
Occlusal pit and fissure Sealants	13401, 13409
Protective athletic mouth appliance
70
11101, 11102,11103
12101,12102
13211-13214,13219 13200
20111,20119,20121 20129,20130, 20139 13701-13703, 13709
(onceyearly)	13501, 13502
Endodontic Services
Emergency Procedures	32221-32232, 32311-32315, 32321
33501,39211,39212
Periodontal Services Management cf acute infections and other oral lesions	41211-41214, 41219, 41221-41224, 41229
Surgical Services
Surgical incision	75111-75113, 75121
Miscellaneous surgical services	75122, 75123, 75211,75212,
75221
Adjunctive General Services
Drugs (Injections)	96101-96103, 96201,96202
Basic Services - $0% Payable Case Presentation
Treatment planning	05101-05104,05109
Consultation with patient	05201, 05202, 05209
Restorative Services
Amalgam Restorations Primary Teeth	21101-21 lOS(inclusive)
Permanent anterior and bicuspid teeth Permanent molar teeth Ein Reinforcement
Silicate restorations
Acrylic or composite restorations
21211-2121 S(inclusi ve)
21221 -21225(inclusive) 21301, 21401-21405, 22201, 22211, 22302, 22311 22401,22501 23101-23105, 23111-23114,23121 23122, 23123,23211-23215 23221-23225,23311-23315
71
Other restorative services
23321-23325,23401-23405 23411-23415, 23501-23505,23511-23515 Crowns	27401,27409
Endodontic Services
Pulpotomy Root Canal Therapy
Apexification periapical Services
Banding of tooth to maintain Sterile operating field Chemical Bleaching Intentional removal, apical filling and reimplantation Emergency procedures
32231
33111-33116, 33121-33126 33131-33136, 33141-33146 33201-33205,33401-33403 33601-33505,33611-33614 34111-33114, 34121-34124 34114, 34131-34135, 34141-34145
39100,39101 39201, 39202
34451-34453,39501-39503
34421-34423
Gingival Curettage Gingivoplasty Gingivectomy Osseous surgery/grafts Soft tissue grafts Post surgical treatment Provisional splinting
Etericdcntal Services
42111
42201
42311,42321,42331,42339 42411, 42421, 42431, 42441, 42521 42511
42821,42822, 42823, 42829 43111,43211,43221,43231 43241,43261
Occlusal equilibration	43311-43314, 43319
Periodontal scalingand root planing	43411-43416, 43419
43421-43426, 43429
43611,43612
72
Special periodontal appliances (including occlusal guards)
Anaesthesia
92212-92219, 92222-92229, 92252-92259 92311-92319, 92331-92339, 92341,92352-92359 Consultation with another dentist	93111,93112, 93119
Prosthodontic services- Removable
Dentureadjustment/repairs	54301-54303, 54401-54403
54501-54503
Denturerebasing & relining (once in a 36 month period)
56601,56602
surgical Services
Removal of erupted tooth (uncomplicated) single tooth
Each additional tooth in same surgical site Removal of erupted tooth (complicated) Removal of impacted tooth
Removal of residual mots Surgical exposure of tooth Alveoloplasty
Gingivoplasty and/cr stomatoplasty Surgical Excision
72111,
72221,
72311,
72511,
73152,
74111
74211-74218, 74221
Fractures
Fractures
76201,76301, 76401, 76601, 76503, 76605, 76701,
Frenectomy
MiscellaneousSurgical Services	79311
79331
71201 72119, 72211 72229, 72231 72319,72321 72331 72519,72521 72541, 73111, 73211,73221, -74118,74121 -74228,74611 76911, 76202,76302, 76912, 76922, 77801-■79314,79321, -79333, 79341-
71101
71109
71209
72219
72239
72329
72339
72529
72551
73121
73224
-74128
-74618
76921
76402
76931
■77806
79322
■79343
Major Services - 50% Payable Restorative Services
73
Metal Inlay Restorations	25111-25114, 25121-25124
25131-25134, 25141-25144 Retentive Pins	25601-25605(inclusive)
crowns	27100, 27110-27114,27121,27122,27130
27201, 27211,27212,27301, 27302, 27311,27312, 27313 Postandcore	27511-27513,25721-25724
25731-25733,25741-25743 Other restorative services	29101-29103, 29109
29301-29303,29309
Prosttaodontlcs
Complete dentures Immediate dentures TTanstfiraL partial dentures Removablepartial dentures
Denture adjustments - after 3 months post-insertion care Retainers for bridgework
51101-51103 51301-51303 52101-52103, 52111-52113 52211-52213, 52301-52303 52401-52403, 52411-52413
54301-54303
67101,67102,67121
67129,67131,67139
Pontics
62101-62103, 62501, 62502, 62701-62703
Removal, Repair, Recerrientation cf Bridgework
Prefabricated veneer application Onlays and crowns
66111-66113, 66119,66211-66213 66219, 66301-66303, 66309, 66720
23121-23123
27701,27702,27711,27712
Orthodontics - 80% Payable Intereeptive Orthodontics Observation/Adjustment/Appliances
(Retention appliancepays at 50%)
Section 7
80000
74
An employee whose active employment is terminated by layoff shall be covered for all benefits until the end of the month following the month of lay-off.
Provision will be made that an employee may carry on benefit coverage for hriitKfand his dependents beyond the periods set out above, except weekly indemnity and when on lay-off weekly indemnity, life and accidental death and dismemberment, by payment monthly in advance to the Company, of the total premiums applicable to such benefits. Such payments shall be the responsibility of the employee and this privilege will terminate on termination of employment or failure to pay the premiums provided. Premiums must be submitted by the 25th of the month in which benefit coverage is still active.
An employee whose active employment is terminated by confirmed sickness or injury, whether covered by Workers' Compensation or not, shallbe covered for all benefits until the end of he month in which such period has reached 52 weeks duration.
Section 8
The Company shall provide for eye glasses to a maximum of: Effective October 1,1995 -$180.00 (one hundred and eighty dollars)
Effective October 1, 1996 ■ $185.00 (one hundred and eighty-five dollars)
Effective Cctcbar 1,1997 - $190,00 (one hundred and ninety dollars)
in any period of twenty-four months, with written prescription from a medical physician or optometrist. This provision includes contact lenses, medically necessary, to a iraxiirmL of two hundred and fifty dollars ($250.00) in any period of twenty-four (24) months. There is no provision to cover sun or safety glasses.
Extended Health Care - Effective October 1, Company paid benefits include:

75
1,	Private duty nursing (RN) or licensed practical nursing in the home or hospital subjectto a maximum of five thousand dollars ($5>200) in a three (3) consecutive year period,
2,	Registered or licensed physiotherapist, including diagnostic.
3,	Laboratory tests and x-rays.
4,	Purchase <r rental cf special remedial appliances, trusses, braces, crutches, artificial limbs, eyes. Prescribed orthopaedic insoles will be covered to a maximum of $ 150 in any period of twenty-four (24) months, exdosive of sports orthotics,
5,	Specialized treatments such as radium, deep x-ray and radioisotopes, oxygen, plasma or blood transfusion, surgical dressing and bandages.
6,	Ambulance service to the nearest hospital.
7,	Registered clinical psychologist in the amount of fifty percent (50%) for such services, to a maximum of two hundred and seventy-five dollars ($275) in a twelve (12) consecutive month period per calendar year for each of such services.
8,	Registered masseurs, osteopaths, naturopaths, podiatrists and chiropractors to a maximum cf two hundred and fifty dollars ($250) in a twelve (12) consecutive month period per calendar year for each of such services. X-ray examinations are limited to one (1) per year for each service.
9,	Qualified speech therapist 1b a maximum of two hundred and seventy*five dollars ($275) during any period cf twelve (12) consecutive months per calendar year. Such coverage must be certified as necessary by a medical physician cr dentist.
10,	Medical fees where legal while travelling or residing outside Ontario when such fees are in excess of the Ontario Medical Association Schedule cf Fees and are not greater than the amount that would be paid in Ontario if it were legal to provide such benefits in Ontario.
Hearing aids to a maximum of five hundred ($500) once in
76
Co-ordination of Benefits
If a person, who is covered for benefits under this plan, is also covered simultaneously under any other plan which provides similar benefits, the amount of benefits payable under this plan for allowable expenses Incurred during any benefit year shall be coordinated, and/or reduced,so that the benefits payable from all plans shall not exceed 100% of the actual allowableexpenses.
If a person Is covered as an employee, and a spouse is also an employee, under the Basic Dental Plan only, both employees will be allowed to be eligible for befits. The amount of benefits payable under this particular plan shall be co-ordinated and/or reduced so that the benefits shall not exceed 100% of the allowableexpenses.
Dependent
(a)	The term '' Dependent'' means a person who is:
i)	The legal spouse or common-law spouse, but only Uthe common-law spouse has co-hablted with the employee for a period of not less than one year and has been publicly represented as a gxuse. Only one spouse at any time may be claimed,
U) Any unmarried, natural, adopted, step-child or foster child or other child under the age cf 21 years who is principally dependent on the employee for support or lives with the employee In a parent-child relationship. A fully employed child is not a dependent under this definition. Prescription drug and extended health coverage continues until age 25 if the child is attending school full time.
ill) The unmarried children of 21 years or more cf age who are dependent on the employee for support and maintenance and who
77
are either mentally or physically incapable of self support. Fully employed children are not dependents under this definition,
(b)	An employee will be considered to be single and without
dependents until be bas properly enrolled his dependents on the. application forms applicable to the specific dependent benefits and be may be required to furnish such proof as the Company may reasonably require to establish the eligibility of any person claimed as a dependent. Ife must further inform the Company promptly of any changes in the status ofhk dependents which would affect their eligibility for benefits,
l) The dependentsof an eligible employee shall be eligible to receive benefits in respect of any eligible expenses incurred on or after the date on which such dependent is properly enrolled under this plan, provided they are not hospitalized at that time, otherwise, on release from hospital.
U) Dependents of any employee shall cease to be eligible for benefits under the Plan on the date on which the employee ceases to be eligible, and In the case of the death of an employee, at the end of the billing period in which such death occurred,
Retiree Benefits
All employees who retire shall maintain benefit coverage for ail plans utilized by them at the time cf retirement at current rates established by the active employees.
Modification and Termination
8.01	This Agreement is subject to such amendment from time to
tineas maybe necessary to meet the requirements of any applicable federal or provincial laws, orders or regulations.
78
8.02	If at any time the Federal or Provincial Government passes
legislation which directly or indirectly has the effect of providing benefits similar to one cr more of the benefits described in this Agreement for which the employees as a class shallbe eligible, this Agreement shall terminate in respect to that benefit or benefits upon the expiration of thirty days after the proclamation of such statute or upon the date the statute comes into effect, whichever is later. During such thirty day period or such longer period as may expire after date of proclamation of the statute, the parties will meet for the purpose of negotiating any amendments required or desirable to assure that the aggregate of the statutory benefits provided under this Agreement consistent with previous costs of this Agreement, 3bU approximate in kind and money value to the benefits provided under this Agreement before said statutory enactment.
79
vJV
0>
Schedule 2A • Plant No. 1
Labour Rates by Occupational Groups effective September 1,1995
Group
1,	Pool Light (drill set-up .50)
5,	Hybrid TunnelExtrusion & Marrying Line Processing
6,	Dipping/Remove Strips Clip and ESck (Roof Rail)
8.	Liquid Foam & Sponge Rubber Insert Moulding
Rate
85%	90%	95%
10.58	11.21	11,83
10.60	11.22	11.85
10.83	11.47	12.10
10.59	11,21	11.84
9.	Dipper Cement Operator Working Leader & Utility
10.	Extruder Set-up & Operate 16, Cement Room Operator
18,	Inspect & Pack (Regular)
19.	Vulcanizing (Regular)
31.	G-Van Cell
11.04	11.69	12.34
10,60	11,22	11.85
10.91	11,56	12.20
10.44	11,05	11.67
10,59	11.21	11.84
10.44	11,05	11,67
32.	Hybrid TunnelExtrusion & Marrying Line
Processing Working Leader	10,81
33.	Vinyl Extruding Rill Forming	10,57
34.	Window Sarddt Finishing Cell	10,44
37.	Taping	10,44
38.	Foam EnidiModuling	10,44
39.	Extrude, Many & Finish Cell	10,63
45.	Working Leader Roof Rail	10,97
46.	Working Leader EN114	10,84
47.	EN114 Finishing	10,63
50,	Dual Sponge Extrusion Line &
Ransberg Operator	10,60
51,	Drill, Nail Machine Operator	10,63
52,	Molding & Gluing Process	10.63
11,45
11.20
11.05
11.05
11.05 11.26 11.61 11.48
11.25
11.22
11.25
11.25
12,08
11.82
11.67
11.67
11.67 11.88 12.26 12,11 11.88
11,85
11.88
11,88
80
100%
12.45
12.47
12.74
12.46
12.99
12.47
12.28
12.72
12.44
12.28
12.28
12.28
12.51
12.90
12,75
12.50
12,47
12.50
12.50
Direct Labour Non-incentive
Stan
3.	Oakes Machine Operator
Working Leader & Utility
85%
90%
95%
4.	Oakes Machine Helper and Compounder
85%
90%
95%
7.	Foam Mixers	14.84
85%	12.61
90%	13.36
95%	14.10
21. Heavy Labour Mainlines
85%
90%
95%
42.	Service. Finishing
85%
90%
95%
48.	Mill & Preform Operator	14.84
85%	12.61
90%	13.36
95%	14.10
49. Inspect & Pack Foam Operations	14.40
85%	12.24
90%	12.96
95%	13.68
Sen. in Group
14.60
12.41
13.14
13.87
14.47
12.30
13.02
13.75
14.94
12.70
13.45
14.19
14.35
12.20
12.92
13.63
14.35 12.20
12.92
13.63
14.94
12.70
13.45 14.19 14.55 12.37 13.10 13.82
81
53,	Box Making & Utility
85%
90%
95%
54,	One Piece Molder
85%
90%
95%
55,	Robotics Spray Operator
85%
90%
95%
Indirect Labour
Start Sen in
Group
12,	Receiving, Shipping, Stock Handling
lit Truck Operator	14,89
85%	12,66
90%	13.40
95%	14.15
13,	IdtedaL Krdlos,Checkers, Lift
Truck Operator	14,67
85%	12.47
90%	13,20
95%	13,94
14,	InspectorQualityControl	14.90
85%	12.67
90%	13.41
95%	14.16
14,99
12.74
13.49
14.24
14.72
12,51
13.25 13.98 15,00
12.75
13.50
14.25
82
14.55
12.37
13.10
13,82
14.35
12.20
12,92
13,63
14.60
12,41
13.14
13.87
45WX>,
After
Sen.in
Group
15.09
12.83
13.58
14.34
14.77
12,55
13,29
14.03
15.10
12.84
13.59
14.35
17. Teaching&Repairs
85%
90%
95%
40.	Development
85%
90%
95%
14.55
12.37
13.10
13.82
14.55
12.37
13.10
13.82
Skilled Trades
35,	Industrial Millwright Apprentice
Year 1 (75%)
Year 2 (80%)
Year 3 (85%)
Year 4 (90%)
Year5 (95%)
36.	Certifiedlndustrial Millwright (Cert. Lead Hand + 10 cents)
43.	Maintenance Helper
44.	Certified Industrial Electrioian/Maint.
5(e kCu-j <tuci Tc t/ue
Night Premiums:	Afternoon shift
Midnight shift
13.21
14.09
14.97
15.85
16.73
17.21	17.41	17.61
13.11
17.46	17.66	17.86
M-Qa tS.oo /S.IO H/lhlo .40 .40
Subject to above Progressive Hiring rates:
85% fist 6 months employment 90% next 6 months employment 95% next6 months employment 100% after 18 months employment (Exclusive of Skilleri Trades)
Employees hired mi or after October 1, 1995 (exclusive of Skilled Trades) will have the 85% rate for the first 12 months, 100% will be after 24 months of employment.
83
Schedule2B - Plant No. 1
Labour Rates by Occupational Groups effective October 1,1996
Direct Labour
Group
85%
1, Pool Light (drill set-up .50)	10,88
5.	Hybrid Tunnel Extrusion &
bfenyirrj Line Processing	10,90
6.	Dipping/Remove Strips clip
and Pack (RoofRail)	11.13
8,	Liquid Foam & Sponge Rubber
InsertMbulding	10,89
9,	Dipper Cement Operator Working
Leader & Utility	11,34
10,	Extruder Set-up & Operate	10,90
16.	Cement Room Operator	11.21
18.	Inspect & E&ck (Regular)	10.74
19,	Vulcanizing (Regular)	10.89
31,	G-Van Cell	10.74
32.	Hybrid Tunnel Extruslcn & Marrying Line Processing Working Leader 11.11
33.	Vinyl Extruding Roll Forming	10,87
34,	Window Garnish Finishing Cell	10,74
37,	Taping	10,74
38,	Foam ElnishModuling	10,74
39,	Extrude,Finish Cell	10,93
45.	Working Leader RoofRail	11.26
46.	Working Leader EN114	11.14
47.	EN114 Finishing	10.92
50, Dual Sponge Extrusion Line &
84
90%
11.52
11,54
11.78
11.53
12.01
11.54 11,87
11.37 11.53
11.37
11.76
11.51
11.37
11.37
11.37
11.57 11.93
11.79
11.57
95%
12.16
12.18
12.44
12.17
12,67
12.18 12.53 12.00 12,17 12.00
12,42
12,15
12.00
12,00
12.00
12,22
12.59
12.45 12,21
Rate
100%
12,80
12,82
13.09
12,81
13,34
12.82
12,81
12.63
13.07
12,79
12.63
12.63
12.63 12.86 13,25 13,10 12.85
Ransberg Operator	10.90	11,54
51,	DHL,Nail Machine Operator	10.92	11,57
52,	Molding & GLuing Process	10.92	11,57
Direct Labour Non-Incentive
3,	Oakes Machine Operator
Working Leader & Ttil-Hy
85%
90%
95%
4.	Oakes Machine Helper and Compounds
85%
90%
95%
7. Foam Mixers
85%
90%
95%
21. Heavy Labour Mainlines
42, Service Finishing
48,	Mil & Preform Operator
85%
90%
95%
49,	Inpect & Pack Foam Operations
Start
14,95
12.71
13.46
14,20
14,82
12.60
13.34
14.08
15.19
12.91
13.67
14.43
85%
90%
95%
85%
90%
95%
15.19
12.91
13.67
14.43 14,75
85
12,18
12,21
12,21
Sen. in Group
15.29
13.00
13.76
14.53
14.70
12.50
13.23
13.97
14.70
12.50
13.23
13.97
15.29
13.00
13.76
14.53 14.90
12,82
12.85
12.85
8 5% 90%
95%
53. Box Making & Utility
54. One Piece MbOdfer
55. Robotics Spray operator
Indirect Labour Start
12.	Receiving, Shipping, StockHandling
Lift Truck Operator	15.24
85%	12,95
90%	13,72
95%	14.48
13.	MaterialHandlers,Checkers,	15.02
Lift Truck Operator	85%	12.77
90%	13.52
95%	14.27
14.	InspectorQualityControl	15.25
85%	12.96
90%	13.73
86
12.54
13.28
14.01
85%
90%
95%
85%
90%
95%
85%
90%
95%
Sen.
in
Group
15.34
13.04
13.81 14.57 15.07
12.81 13,56 14.32
15.35
13.05 13.82
12.67
13.41
14.16 14,90
12.67
13.41
14.16
14.70 12,50 13.23 13.97 14,95
12.71 13.46 14,20
45W.D. After Sen,in Group
15.44
13.12
13.90 14.67
15.12 12,85 13,61 14,36
15.45
13.13
13.91
95%	14,49	14,58
17, Teaching & Repairs
85%
90%
95%
40, Development
85%
90%
95%
Skilled Trades
35,	IndustrialMiUwright Apprentice
iferl (75%)
2Ssr2 (80%)
5Ssr3 (85%)
5§ar4 (90%)
Ifear 5 (95%)
36, Certified IndustrialMiUwright	17,66	17,86
(Cert, Lead Hand +10 cmts)
43. Maintenance Helper
44Certified Industrial Electrician/Maint. 17,91	18,11
Night Premiums:	Afternoon shift ,40
Midnight shift ,40
Subjectto above Progressive Hiring rates:
85% first6 months employment 90% next 6 months employment 95% next 6 months employment 100% after 18 norths employment (Exclusive cf Skilled Trades)
87
14,68
14.90
12.67
13.41
14.16
14.90
12.67
13.41
14.16
13,55
14.45 15.35 16,25 17,16 18.06
13.45 18.31
Employees hired on or after October 1, 1995 (exclusive of Trades) will have the 85% rate for the first 12 months, 100% after 24 months rf employment.
Schedule 1C- Plant tfo. 1 Labour Rates by Occupational Groups effective o-ridiw1,1997
Direct Labour
Group
85%
1. Pool Light (drill set-up .50)	12.03
5.	Hybrid Tunnel Extrusion &
tferrying Line Processing	12.04
6.	Dipping/Remove Strips Clip
and Pack (Roof Rail)	12.27
8.	Liquid Foam* Sponge Rubber
Insert Moulding	12.04
9.	Dipper Cement Operator Working
Leader & Utility	12.49
10.	Extruder Set-up & Operate	12.04
16. Cement Room Operator	12.36
18.	Inspect SPack (Regular)	11.88
19.	Vulcanizing (Regular)	12.04
31.	G-Van Cell	11.88
32.	Hybrid Tunnel Extrusion & Marrying
Line Processing working Leader	12.26
33.	Vinyl Extruding Rill Forming	12.02
34.	Window Garnish Finishing Cell	11.88
37.	Taping	11.88
38.	Foam Finish Moduling	11.88
39.	Extrude,Rfeay & Finish Cell	12.08
90%
12.74
12.75 13.00
12.74
13.22
12.75 13.09
12.58 12.74
12.58
12.98
12.73
12.58
12.58
12.58 12.79
95%
13.44
13.46
13.72
13.45
13.96
13.46 13.81
13.28 13.45
13.28
13.70
13.43
13.28
13.28
13.28 13.50
88
Skilled will be
Rate
100%
14.15
14.17
14.44
14.16
14.69
14.17
13.98
14.42
14.14
13.98
13.98
13.98 14.21
45.	Working Leader Roof Rail
46.	Working Leader EN114
47.	EN114 Finishing
50,	LXial Sponge Extrusion Line & Ransberg Operator
51,	DdH,Nail Machine Operator
52,	Molding & Gluing Process
12,41
12.28
12.07
12,04
12.07
12.07
13,14
13.01
12.78
12.75
12.78
12.78
13.87
13,73
13.49
13,46
13.49
13.49
14.60
14,45
14.20
14,17
14.20
14.20
Direct Labour Non-Incentive
3, Oakes Machine Operator Working Leader & Utility
4, Oakes Machine Helper and Compounder
7. Foam Mixers
85%
90%
95%
21, Heavy Labour raririkine
42. Service Finishing
48, Mill & Reform Operator
Stan
85%
90%
95%
85%
90%
95%
16.54
14,06
14,89
15.71
85%
90%
95%
85%
16,54
Sen,in Group
16.30
13.86
14.67
15,49
16.17
13,74
14.55
15,36
16.64 14.14 14.98 15.81
16.05
13.64
14.45
15.25
16.05
13.64
14.45
15.25
16.64
89
85%	14.06
90%	14.89
95%	15.71
49. Inspect* Pick Foam Operations	16.10
85%	13.69
90%	14.49
95%	15.30
53.	Box Making & Utility
85%
90%
95%
54.	One Here Molder
85%
90%
95%
55.	Robotics Spray Operator
85%
90%
95%
Indirect Labour
Start Sen. 45 W.D.
in
Group
12.	Receiving, Shipping, Stock Handling
Lift Truck Operator	16.59
85%	14.10
90%	14.93
95%	15.76
13.	Material Handlers, Checkers,
Lift Truck Operator	16.37
85%	13.91
16.69
14.19
15.02
15.86
16.42
13.96
90
14.14
14.98
15.81
16.25
13.81
14.63
15.44
16.25
13.81
14.63
15.44 16.05
13.64
14.45
15.25 16.30 13.86 14.67 15.49
After
Sen.in
Group
16.79
14.27
15.11
15.95
16.47
14.00
14, Inspector Quality Control
17, Tcaching & Repairs
40, Development
90%	14,73
95%	15,55
16,60 85%	14,11
90%	14,94
95% IS,77
14,78	14.82
15,60	15.65
16,70	16,80
14.20	14,28
15,03	15,12
15.87	15,96
16.25 85%	13,81
90%	14,63
95%	15,44
16.25 85%	13,81
90%	14,63
95%	15,44
Skilled Trades
35,	Industrial Millwright Apprentice
Year 1 (75%)
Year 2 (80%)
Year 3 (85%)
Year 4 (90%)
Year 5 (95%)
36,	CertifiedIndustrialMillwright 19,11 (Cert, Lead Hand + 10 cents)
43.	MaintenanceHelper
44,	CertifiedlndustrialElectrician/Maint, 19,36
14,63
15,61
16,58
17,56
18.53 19.31	19,51
14.53 19,56	19.76
Night premiums:	Afternoon shift .40
Midnight shift ,40
Subjeetto above Progressive Hiringrates:
85% first 6 months employment 90% next 6 months employment
91
95% next 6 months employment 100% after 18 months employment (Exclusive of Skilled Trades)
Employees hired on or after October 1, 1995 (exclusive cf Skilled Trades) will have the 85% rate for the first 12 months, 100% will be after 24 months of employment
Schedule3A - Plant no. 2 Labour Rates by Occupational Group
effective September 1,1995
Direct Labour
Group
1, Pool light (drill set-up .50) 18, Inspect& Ehck 26, Door Weatherstrip
29,	Ballitim Take-off
30,	SDMFinishing Cell 38. Injection Molding 41. Ballitim Set-up
85%
10.58
10,44
10,74
10,47
10,62
10.59 10,91
42. Working Leader SDMFinishing Cell 10,83
90%
11,21
11,05
11.37
11,09
11.24
11,21
11,55
11.47
Fate.
95%	100%
11.70	12,32
11,87	12.49
11,84	12,46
12.19	12.83
12,10	12.74
Direct Non-Incentive
2.	Fleavy Pool - Box Making	14,50
85%	12,33
90%	13,05
95%	13.78
3.	Extruder Set-up & Operate.	14,50
85%	12.33
90%	13,05
95%	13,78
92
23. BaUitini Set-up
85%
39, Mixing
45. Packers
46, Extrusion Facilitator
95%
14.68	14.78
85%	12,48	12.56
90%	13,21	13,30
95%	13,95	14.04
14,40	14.55
85%	12,24	12,37
90%	12,96	13,10
95%	13.68	13.82
14.68	14.78
85%	12.48	12.56
90%	13,21	13,30
95%	13.95	14,04
Indirect Labour
Start Sen.
in
Group
10. Working Job GxtrdL
12, Receiving, Shipping, Stock Handling, Lift Truck Operator
13. Material Handlers, Checkers, Tift-. Truck Operator
90%
95%
14,73
12,52
13.26
13.99
14.89
12,66
13,40
14.15
14,67
14.83
12,61
13.35
14.09
14.99
12.74
13,49
14,24
14.72
93
14.50
12,33
13,05
13.78
14.88
12.65
13,39
14.14
14.88
12,65
13.39
14.14
45WX). After Sen,in Group 14.93 12.69 13.44 14.18
15.09
12.83
13,58
14.34
14.77
14. Inspector Quality CtntraL
17, Teaching & Repairs
24, Roll Form Set-up
37. Launch Program Assistant
40. Injection Molding Set-up
44. Shipping& Receiving Inventory Control - Mixing
47. Coatings Service Person
85%	12,47
90%	13.20
95%	13,94
14,90 85%	12.67
90%	13.41
95%	14.16
14,68 85%	12.48
90%	13.2!
95%	13,95
14.72 85%	12,51
90%	13,25
95%	13.98
14,65 85%	12.45
90%	13.19
95%	13.92
14,89 85%	12.66
90%	13.40
95%	14.15
14.62 85%	12.43
90%	13,16
95%	13.89
12.51	12.55
13.25	13.29
13.98	14.03
15,00	15,10
12,75	12,84
13.50	13.59
14.25	14,35 14,55
85%	12.37
90%	13.10
95%	13.82
14.83	14.99
12.61	12,74
13.35	13,49
14,09	14.24
14.86 12.63 13,37 14,12
14.70	14.75
12.50	12.54
13.23	13,28
13.97	14.01
14.99	15.09
12.74	12.83
13,49	13,58
14.24	14,34
14,67	14.72
12.47	2.51
13,20	13.25
13,94	13,98
94
Skilled Trades
34.	MaintenanceElectrician
35.	Industrial Millwright Apprentice
Year 1 (75%) Year 2 (80%) Year 3 (85%) Year 4 (90%) Year 5 (95%)
36.	CertifiedlndustrialMillwright (Cert.Lead Hand +10 cents)
43. MaintenanceHeiper
17.46	17.66	17.86
13.21
14.09
14.97
15.85
16.73
17.21	17.41	17.61
13.11
Night premiums:	Afternoon shift ,40
Midnight shift .40 Subject to above Progressive Hiring rates:
85% flrst6 monthsemployment 90% next 6 norths employment 95% next 6 monthsemployment 100% after 18 months employment (Exclusivecf Skilled Trades)
Employees hired on or after October 1, 1995 (exclusive of Skilled Trades) will have the 85% rate for the first 12 irmths, 100% will be after 24 months of employment
Schedule3B - Plant No. 2 Labour Bates by Occupational Groups effective October 1,1996
Direct Labour
Group
85%	90%	95%	100%
1.	PoolUght(driU set-up SO)	10.88	11.52	12.16	12.80
(cells+ .10)
18. Inspect & Pack
95
26.	Door Weatherstrip	11.03
29.	Ballitini Take-off	10.77
30.	SDM Finishing Cell	10.91
38.	HrjeriamMolding	10.88
41.	Ballitini Set-up	11.74
42.	Working Leader SDM FinishingCell 11.13
11.68
11.40
11.56
11.53
11.86
11.78
Direct Non-Incentive
2. Heavy Pool - Box Making
3. Extruder Set-up & Operate
23. Ballitini line
39. Mixing
45. Packers
46. Extrusion Facilitator
15.03 85%	12.78
90%	13.53
95%	14.28
14.75 85%	12.54
90%	13.28
95%	14.01
15.03 85%	12.78
90%	13.53
95%	14.28
12.33
12.04
12.20
12.17
12.52
12.44
85%
90%
95%
85%
90%
95%
85%
90%
95%
15.13 12.86
13.62
14.37 14.90 12.67 13.41 14.16
15.13
12.86
13.62
14.37
96
12.98
12.67
12.84
12.81
13.18
13.09
14.85 12.62
13.37
14.11
14.85 12.62
13.37
14.11
14.85 12.62
13.37
14.11 15.23 12.95 13.71 14.47
15.23
12.95
13.71
14.47
Indirect Labour
10. Working Job Control
85%
90%
95%
12,	Receiving, Shipping, StockHandling,
IiffcTruck Operator
85%
90%
95%
13,	Material Handlers, Checkers,
Trff-. Truck Operator
85%
90%
95%
14,	Inspector Quality Control
85%
90%
95%
17. Teaching &Repairs
15,08
12.82
13.57
14,33
15.24
12.95
13.72
14.48
15.02
12,77
13.52
14,27
15.25
12.96
13.73
14.49
15,18
12.90
13.66
14,42
15.34
13.04
13.81
14.57
15.07
12.81 13,56 14,32
15.35
13.05 13.82
14.58
85%
24. Roll Form Set-up
37.	Launch Program Assistant
40, In]a±icn Molding Set-up
95%
15,03	15.18
85%	12.78	12.90
90%	13,53	13,66
95%	14,28	14,42
15,07	15,21
85%	12,81	12.93
90%	13,56	13,69
95%	14,32	14.45
15.00	15.05
97
15.28
12.99
13.75
14.52
15.44
13.12
13.90
14.67
15.12 12.85 13.61 14.32
15.45
13.13
13.91
14.68 14.90 12,67 13.41 14,16 15.34 13.04 13.81 14.57
15,10
44. Shipping & Receiving Inventory Control - Mixing
47. Coatings Service Person
85%	12.75	12.79
90%	13.50	13.55
95%	14.25	14.30
15.24	15.34
85%	12.95	13.04
90%	13.72	13.81
95%	14.48	14.57
14.97	15.02
85%	12.72	12.77
90%	13.47	13.52
95%	14.22	14.27
Skilled Trades
34.	Maintenance Electrician
35.	IndustrialMillwright Apprentice
Year 1 (75%)
Year 2 (80%)
Year 3 (85%)
Year 4 (90%)
Year 5 (95%)
36.	Certified Industrial Millwright
(Cert, Lead Hand + 10 cents)
43. Maintenance Helper
17.91	18.11
13.55
14.45
15.35
16.25
17.16
17.66	17.86
Night Premiums:	Afternoon shift .40
Midnightshift .40
Subjectto above Progressive Hiring rates:
85% first6 months employment 90% next6 monthsemployment 95% next 6 monthsemployment 100% after 18 monthsemployment
98
12.84
13.59
14.35
15.44
13.12
13.90
14.67
15.07
12.81
13.56
14.32
18.31
18.06
13.45
(Exclusiveof Skilled Trades)
Employeesblred on or after October lj 1995 (exclusive of Skilled Trades)wlll have the 85% rate for the first 12 months, 100% will be after 24 months of employment
Schedule 3C ■ Plant No. 2 Labour Fates by OccupationalGroups effective October 1.1997
Direct Labour
Group
1. Pool Light(drill set-up .50)
18. Inspect & Packing 26. Door Weatherstrip
29.	Ballitini Takeoff
30.	SDM Finishing CHI 38. Injection Molding
41.	Ballitini Set-up
42.	WorkingLeader SDM Finishing Cell
85%
12.03 11.88 12.18 11.92 12.06
12.04 12.35 12.27
90%
12.74 12.58 12.90 12.62 12.77
12.74 13.08 13.00
95%
13.44 13.28 13.61 13.32 13.48
13.45 13.80 13.72
nhw*- Non-Incentive
2.	Heavy Pool - Box Making
85%
90%
95%
3.	Extruder Set-up& Operate
85%
90%
95%
23. Ballitini Line
85%
90%
100%
14.15 13.98 14.33 14.02 14.19
14.16 14.53 14.44
16.20
13.77
14.58
15.39 16.20
13.77
14.58
15.39 16.20
13.77
14.58
99
39. Mixing
85%
90%
95%
45.	Packers
85%
90%
95%
46.	Extrusion Rcihtahrr
85%
90%
90%
95%
13. Material Handlers,Checkers,
Lift Truck Operator
85%
90%
95%
95%
16.38	16.48
13.92	14.01
14.74	14.83
15.56	15.66
16.10	16.25
13.69	13.81
14.49	14.63
15.30	15.44
16.38	16.48
13.92	14.01
14.74	14.83
15.56	15.66
45 W.D. Sen. in
Stan Group 16.43	16.53
13.97	14.05
14.79	14.88
15.61	15.70
16,59	16.69
14.10	14.19
14.93	15.02
15.76	15.86
16.37	16.42
13.91	13.96
14.73	14,78
15.55	15.60
100
15.39
16.58
14.09
14.92
15.75
16.58
14.09
14.92
15.75
After
Senin
Group
16.63
14.14
14.97
15.80
16.79
14.27
15.11
15.95
16.47
14.00
14.82
15.65
14, Inspector Quality Control
85%
90%
95%
17. Teaching & Repairs
24, Roll Form Set-up
85%
90%
95%
37. Launch ProgramAssistant
85%
90%
95%
40. Injection Molding Set-up
85%
95%
44, Shipping & Receiving Inventory Control ■ Mixing
85%
90%
95%
47, Coatings Service Person
85%
90%
95%
Skilled Trades
34,	Maintenance Electrician_________________
35,	Industrial Millwright Apprentice
101
16,60
14.11
14,94
15.77
16.38
13.92 14.74 15,56 16.42 13,96 14.78 15.60 16.35 13.90 14.72 15,53
16,59
14,10
14.93 15,76 16.32 13,87 14.69 15.50
19.36
16.70 14,20 15,03
15.87
85%
90%
95%
16.53
14.05
14.88
15.70 16.56 14,08
14.90
15.73 16,40 13,94 14.76 15,58
16,69
14,19
15,02
15,86
16.37
13.91
14.73 15,55
19.56
16,80
14,28
15.12
15,96
16,25
13.81
14,63
15,44
16.69
14.19
15,02
15,86
16.45
13,98
14,81
15.63
16,79
14.27
15.11
15.95 16,42
13.96 14.78 15,60

36. Certified Industrial Millwright (Cert Lead Hand + IQ ceits) 43. Maintenance Helper
Year 1 (75%)	14.63
Year 2 (80%)	15.61
Year 3 (85%)	16.58
Year 4 (90%)	17.56
Year 5 (95%)	18.53
19.11	19.31	19.51
Night premiums:	Afternoon shift .40
Midnight shift .40
Subject lb above ProgressiveHiring rates:
85% first 6 monthsemployment 90% next6 irmths employment 95% next6 monthsemployment 100% after 18 monthsemployment (Exclusive of Skilled Trades)
Employees hired on or after October 1,1995 (exclusive ofSkiUed Trades) will have the 85 % rats for the first 12 months, 100 % will be after 24 months cf employment
102
SCHEDUIE4 INCENTIVE PAY PLAN
1.	TYPE OF PLAN
This incentive pay plan is designed, but not guaranteed, to provide the average qualified employee working on a time-studied direct labour productionjob operating under standard conditions the opportunity to earn approximately 20% over the base, rate for the job by applying reasonable proportionate. effort, attention and care to the job. It is understood that since there is no such thing as an average employee, some employees may earn in excess cf 20% while others may earn less than 20%. The incentive pay plan is known as a "100%"of "standard hour plan". For each 1% increase in production over standard the employee receives a 1% increase over the base rate. There is no ceiling on earnings.
2.	INCENTIVESTANDARD
The standard is expressed in terms of standard hours required to produce 1000 inits, such as pieces, pounds or feet. It measures how many units an average qualified employee can produce under standard conditions in one hour at a normal pace. It includes time allowances for miscellaneous work elements, short delays which are unavoidable even when the job is running properly and allowances for rest and personal needs. An employee earns incentive pay by producing more than standard, The incentive pay is computed on the base rate as sei forth in Schedules 2 and 3.
For example, if the standard is 100 pieces per hour, i,e, 10.00 standard hours per thousand pieces, the average qualified employee, by applyingreasonable proportionate extra effort, attention and care to the jcb, should, working as provided in paragraph 1, turn out 960 pieces in an 8 hour shift. Ifewill then have earned 9,6 standard hours.
960 x 10 standard hours = 9,6 hours
103
1000 pieces
If the base rate on thej ob is $3.72 per hour, his earnings for the shift WIL be $35.71(3.72 x 9.6 standard hours), $5.95 more than he would have earned at tfebase rate.
3.	EFFECT OF OTHER PAY POLICIES
(A)	Overtime
Thei ncentive pay is computed on the base rate only. Overtime premium is paid in addition to the incentive rate. In the above example, had he workedS hours on Saturday, he would have earned$50.59 ($3.72x 9.6 standard hours, which is $35.71 plus 1/2 cf the $3.72 which is $1.86 x 8 hoursworked = $14.88).
(B)	Shift Differential
Shift differentialis not included in computing incentive pay.
(C)	VacationPay
The incentive pay increases the employee's vacation pay because it is includedin "gross earnings".
(D)	Holiday pay, call-in, etc.
The incentive pay does not affect holiday pay, call-in pay and inventory work which are. paid at the employee's base. rate.
4.	BASE RATE GUARANTEED
In all cases the employee's earnings are at least the number of hours worked times the base rate of the job. For example, if the standard is 10 standard hours per 1000 pieces and the employee turns out 700 pieces in an 8 hour drift, he has earned only 7 standard hours.
700 x 10 standard hours = 7 hours 1000 pieces
In such case, if die base rate cf thejob is $3.72 per hour, his earnings fcr the shift are $29.76 ($3.72x 8 hours), not $26.04 ($3.72x 7 standard bans).
104
5.	INCENTIVE EA RNIN GS PAID BY JOB
If an employee works on two incentive jobs which are operating properly for four hours each on one shift at a base rate of $3.72 pa* hour and produces 5 standard hours on the first job and 4.6 standard hours on the second job, he earns 9.6 standard hours for the shift His eamingsfor the shift will be $35.71 ($3.72x 9.6 standard hours). If on the secondjob he earns only 3.5 standard hours, he is paid 9 standardhours for the shift His earnings for the shift are then $33.48 ($3.72 x 9 standard hours).
6.	PAYMENTWHEN NOT ON INCENTIVE
(A)	Job not covered by incentive
When an employee works on ajob which is not covered by an incentive standard he is paid the base rate of thejob. Assume an employee wades on two jobs four hours each sb a base rate of $3.72 per hour. The first job is on incentive and the employee produced 4.8 standard hours, while the second job is not on incentive. His earnings for the day are $32.74 ($3.72 x 4.8 standardhours plus $3.72 X 4 hours).
(B)	Downtime
Downtime is when the employee is unable to produce at all because of lack of material, machine breakdown, waiting for set-up, etc. In such cases, the operator shall ring out and contact his foreman who vilL authorizethe applicable downtime when thejob is re-started or the operator is reassigned, if such downtime is three (3) minutes or more. Downtime is paid at the base rate of the job.
Assume an employee, works on ajob for 7.5 hours producing9 standardhours and then encounters .5 hour of downtime because thejob was 11 out of stock". If the base rate is $3.72, his earnings for the day viH be $35.34 ($3.72x 9 standardhours plus $3.72 X .5 hours).
(C)	Non-Standard
If the employee is unable to produce enough inits to earn the equal of the base rate because c£ poor material or improperly operating equipment, the operation is on non-standard.
105
I
The employee encountering such difficulty will immediately contact his foreman. If, in the judgement of the foreman, the incentive standard does not apply, the foreman will authorize the employee to work on a non-standard basis. The employee will then be. paid the base rate for the pieces produced during this time until die trouble is corrected. All nonstandardtime cards xaZL be authorizedby the foreman and a time study man before the non-standard period is granted.
For example, suppose the employee works 5 hours on incentive at $3.72 base, rata, producing 6 standard hours, and then has trouble for 3 hours, The foreman and time study man authorize the 3 hours on non-standard. His earnings for the shift will be $33.48 ($3.72 x 6 standard hours plus $3.72 x 3 hours).
7.	DEVELOPMENTOFINCENTIVE STANDARD
(A)	Standard Time
The standard time per piece produced is the length of tine required by an average qualified operator working at normal pace and under standard conditions to produce one piece. This time is determined by stopwatch time study observation or standard data derived firm time study in the company's Stratford plants.
(B)	Allowance for miscellaneous work and short unavoidable
delays.
In each job there are miscellaneous work elements, such as obtaining stock, handling scrap pieces, disposing of finished work and miscellaneous delays inherent in the job. The normal tore required to perform such work is added to and becomes a part of the standard time per piece.
Also, an allowance of 3% is made to cover shxt unavoidable delays which occur irregularly, such as interruptions by oilers, inspectors and instructions by foremen.
(C)	Allowance. for fatigue
An allowance of 5% is includedin the standardfor fatigue.
(D)	Allowance for personalneeds
106
An allowance of 6.25% is included in the standard for personal needs and end-of-shift workplace cleanup.
(E^ Machine opportunity allowance
On some jobs the employee's production is limited by the machine. In such cases, in addition to the ether applicable allowances, a "machine opportunity allowance" is added to the standard machine time to provide the employee working as provided in paragraph 1 the opportunity to earn 20% incentive pay.
(F) Scrap allowance
In some operations there is a certain amount of unavoidable scrap. Since the incentive pay plan pays for good pieces only, the normal time lost making and handling scrap which cannot be avoided by close attention on the part of the operator is added to and becanes part of the standardtime per piece.
The operator turns in his production separately - good pieces and scrap pieces.
8.	INSTALLATION OF STANDARDS
The Company will establish incentive standards when and where it considers it practical and economical so to do. Employees being time studied will be told why the study is being made. The result of the incentive standard will be given to the employee involved. Incentive pay on the incentive standards starts on the date the standard is installed. All current rates wiHL be listed in routing books and made readily available to employees.
The Union may at any reasonable time and from time to time have a time study expert attend at the Company's plants 1 or 2 to inquire into the particulars of any established and installed incentive standard and the Company shall furnish all reasonable and relevant information necessary to enable the expert to complete the said inquiry. Where there is a discrepancy in the standards, a Union time study will be conducted.
9.	CHANGE IN STANDARDS
107
Established incentive standards will not be altered except because of a change in material, equipment, method of manufacturing, a demonstrable clerical error or by mutual agreement. Only those elements affected by the change will be revised.
10.	SUBSTITUTE AND ADDED OPERATIONS
Substitute and added operations are normally paid at the base rate. However, if the quantity of parts to be produced, in the opinion of the Company, justifies the installation of an incentive standard, it Will be installed.
11.	TEMPOR4R1 INCENTIVE S TANDARD S
Temporary incentive standards in accordance with paragraph 1 may be installed when it is impracticable to use established standards because of job conditions varying due to equipment, material, process or method employed. Temporary incentive standards ate. applicable to those jobs that would eventually have established standards and are.applicable for atime not exceeding 30 days of job operation.
Temporary incentive standards will be listed in the routing books and marked as tgtprrary by suffixingthe rate with 3,
12.	The within described plan shall be subject to the grievance procedure.
13.	In establishing an incentive standard for a group, the Company
will install a group incentive standard base on the controlling or limiting
operation.
Each mEnber of the group will receive the same percentage incentive pay.
Revisions of incentive group standards may be made from time to time pursuant to paragraph 9. Such revised standards shall be based on whichever operation, followingthe revision, controls or limits production.
108
14.	The payment codes under the incentive pay plan are as follows: Code 1 • Estimated standard- no incentive pay.
Code 2 - Permanent standard- incentive pay.
Code 3 - Temporary standard-incentive pay.
Code 4 - Non-Standard Condition - incentivepay on deviation where applicable.
15.	Where there is a dispute concerning the production standard, the Company will present a substantiationand a copy of all details involved in the settingof the production standards,to the Union.
The Company will provide the Union with any changes made to incentive standardswithin 48 hours priorto implementation.
These shall include all facts, data, tine studies, (allowed and disallowed time) or any information pertaining to the operation that is consideredpertinent and will clear up the dispute.
If requested by the operator, the Industrial Engineer who completed the study will supply the operator with the following:
1)	The exact total time in which the time study took place.
2)	The exact total time (minus strike outs) of the time study.
3)	The effort rating per element.
4)	The number of pieces time studied.
It will be the intent of the Company and the Union to continue in a harmoniousrelationship to solve any problems in this regard.
16.	All Incentive to be calculated on a base rate of $ 1035
effective September!, 199S.
109
RETIREMENT BENEFIT PLAN AND MONEY PURCHASE PLAN entered into
as of the 1st day of October 1992 between
STANDARDPRODUCTS (CANADA) LIMITED and
National Automobile, Aerospace, Transportation and General Workers Union of Canada (CAW-Canada) and Its Local 4451
110
INDEX
Article	Title	Page
	Money Purchase Plan	
i	Purpose	123
n	Interpretations	124
III	Financing	126
IV	Oeriteri Service	127
V	FtetiiEnEnt Benefits	128
VI	Eligibility	137
VII	General Provisions	138
VIII	Modifications and Terminations	141
111
^ V	The retirement benefit plan will be converted to a money
' purchase plan effective October 1, 1992 allowing for the Company to contribute on a monthly basis as follows:
Effective October 1,1995
Employeeshired January 1»1990 or later	$40.00
betweenJan. 1,	1980andDec.	31, 1989	$50.00
between Jan. 1,	1975 and Dec,	31, 1979	$55.00
between Jan. 3,	1970 and Dec.	31, 1974	$60,00
Prior to 1970 (back only to Jan. 1,1966)	$70.00
Effective October 1, 1995 the plan would allow for the employee to contribute $10,00, $20.00, or $25.00 per month to the plan with a company match of $10.00, $20,00, or $25.00 respectively per month. The options would be available to commence and terminate each year of this agreement at September 30th, The employee contributions would be made through payroll deductions which would be matched by die Company.
An employee would become a member of the plan after attainment of his/her master seniority.
Anyone retiring during the tarn of this agreement would be guaranteed no less than $15.00 per month per year of service under the Defined PensionPlan with al I rules of early retirement being applicable.
The rules governing this plan will be available in a separate plan text to be formulated by the Company and the Union during the tsam of this Agreement.
112
This retirement benefit plan agreement is ma& and entered into as of the first day of October 1995, between the Company and the Union.
The "Company" as used herein means Standard Products (Canada) Limited with respect to its bargaining unit at Plant #1, 1030 Erie Street, Stratford, Ontario N5A 6V7 and its Plant #2 at 703 Douro Street, Stratford, Ontario N5A 3T1,
The "Union" as used herein means National Automobile, Aerospace, Transportation and General Workers Union of Canada (CAW-Canada)and its Local 4451,
ARTICLEl - PURPOSE
1.01	This retirement benefit plan (hereinafter referred to as the Agreement) is hereby established for the purpose of providing pension benefits, as described herein, subject to obtaining and retaining such approval of the retirement benefit plan by the relevant tax authorities as the Company may deem necessary to establish that the Company is entitled to deduct the amount of its contributions to the pension fund as an expense before taxes under the provisions of the Income TeK Act, or any other applicable tax laws, as now in effect or as hereafter amended or adopted.
1.02	Subject to the provisions of this Agreement, the Company shall determine the manner in which the Plan shall be administered.
ARTICLE O - INTERPRETATIONS
2.01	The term "employee" means any employee of the Company
who is a member of the bargaining unit as defined in the applicable sections of the Collective Labour Agreement, and meets the applicable eligibility requirements of this Agreement.
113
2.02	The team "pensioner" means a person who has retired and has become and remains eligible for a pension under this Agreement.
2.03	The term "physician" means a medical practitioner who is registered under the Medical Act of the Province of Ontario or such similar statute or law as governs the practice of medicine.
2.04	The tarn "Collective Labour Agreement" shall mean the current Collective Labour Agreement between the Company and the Union as may be amended or supplemented,or any successor agreement.
2.05	The term "layoff" shall mean the same as the de layoff in the Collective Labour Agreement,
2.06	The term "normal retirement date" means die first day month next following an employee's 65th birthday.
2.07	The term "credited service" means the service of an employee which has been and remains credited to him in accordance with the provisions of Article TV,
2.08	The term "continuous service" means the service of an employee with die Company as accumulated and retained under the Collective Labour Agreement.
2.09	The term "effectivedate" means October 1,1995.
2.10	The tem "totally and permanently disabled" means disabledby
bodily injury or disease (other than disability) which
(i)	Resulted from or consists of chronic alcoholism a: selfinduced addiction to narcotics, or,
114
(ii)	was contracted, suffered or incurred while the employee was engaged in, or resulted from his having engaged in a criminal
enterprise, or,
(iii)	resulted fian wilfully self-inflictedinjury, or,
(iv)	can be established as due to service in the armed forces of
any country.
Which in the certified opinion of a physician who is selected by or satisfactory to the Company will presumably, permanently, continuously and wholly prevent the employee, during the remainder of his life, from meetingthe job requirements of any job coveredby the Collective Labour Agreement.
2.11	"Actuary" shall mean a person, being a fellow of the Canadian Institute of Actuaries, appointed by the Company for the Corporation including such a person.
2.12	"Commuted value" shall mean the actuarial present value of the pension or other benefit to which an employee, or his spouse or designated beneficiary, if applicable, is or will become entitled and which confirms to generally acceptedactuarial principles and is accepted under the PensionBenefitsAct, 1987 (Ontario)and Regulationthereunder.
2.13	"Spouse" shall mean a person of the oppositesex who
(A)	is married to the employee,or
(B)	is not married to the employee but has been living with the employee in a conjugal relationship.
(i)	continuouslyfor a period of three (3) years or more,
(ii)	in a relationship or some permanence, if such individual and the employee are the natural or adoptive parents of a child, both as defined in the Family Law Act, 1986, as it is now written or hereinafter amended.
ARTIC LE m - FINANCING
115
3.01	PENSION FUND
The Company shall establish a pension fund for the purpose of providing the pension benefits under this Agreement Such fund shall be either a trust fund, or an insured fund, or a combination thereof The Company shall pay currently into the Pension Fund, such amounts as the actuary, retained by the Company for the purposes of the plan, shall certify to be necessary to provide the current service costs and for amortization within the period prescribed by law of an unfunded liability or experience deficiency after taking into consideration the assets of the pension fund and such other factors as may be deemed relevant. The Company at its option may, fiaantime to time, pay into the Pension Fund additional amounts.
3.02	DISBURSEMENTS FRCM PENSION FUND
The Pension Fund shall be used in accordance with this Agreement, to pay such pensions as are payable under this Agreement.
3.03	PENSION PAYABLE SOLELY FROM PENSION FUND The pension which shall be payable in accordance with the
provisions of this Agreement shall be paid solely from the Pension Fund and each employee or pensioner or other person who shall claim a right to any payment under this Agreement shall be entitled to look only to the pension fund for such payment, and no liability for the payment of pensions under this Agreement shall be imposed upon the Company, or the cffioas, directors or stockholders of the Company.
3.04	NONALIENATION OF BENEFITS
The pensions payable from the Pension Fund shall be. deemed alimentary and for the personal maintenance of the pensioners and shall net be subject in any manner to anticipation, alienation, sale, transfer, assignment, pledge, encumbrance or charge, or to attachment or legal process for debt to pensioners except to such an extent as may be required by law.
116
ARTICLEIV • CREDITED SERVICE
4.01	An employees' credited service shall mean his years and completed months of continuous service acquired after January 1, 1966, and retained and accumulated as provided for in the Collective Labour Agreement, subject to the following:
(i)	An employee who has been on lay-off, after the effective date of this Agreement, Xifll accumulate credited service for tittle lost up to one year during any period of lay-off, but the tine will be credited only when he returns to active employment at the end of the period.
(ii)	An employee who has been on an official paid leave of absence for other than work with another employer or with the Union or its affiliates will accumulate credited service for time lost up to one year during one absence, but the time will be credited only when he returns to active employmentat the end of the period.
4.02	An employee will lose his credited service, unless otherwise provided lor in this Agreement, when his employment with the Company is terminated for any reason or when he retires on a monthly pension under this Agreement.
4.03	The records of the Company shall be presumed to be correct with respect to dates covering term of employment, non-employment, or disability retirement of an employee, pensioner or applicant for pension, unless shown beyond a reasonable doubt to be incorrect. An applicant for pension or pensioner shall prove his age by evidence satisfactory to the Company.
ARTICLEV - RETIREMENT AND DEATH BENEFITS
5.01	NORMAL RETIREMENT
117
(A)	An employee who retires on a: after the effective date of this Agreement, and who has attained his normal retirement date and has 2 or more years of continuous service, shall be eligible for a monthly pension upon his retirement. Such monthly pension shall consist of an amount payable for life of $8.00, multiplied by the number of years of his credited service accumulated between January 1, 1966 and his normal retirement date if that date be on or before September 30, 1982, In no event shall any payment be made after the death of the pensioner unless he shall have elected an optional benefitunder Section5.03 of this Agreement.
The monthly pension for an employee who retires after September 30, 1982 shall consist of an amount payable for life of $10.00 multiplied by the number of years cf his credited service accumulated between January 1,1966 and September 30,1983.
The monthly pension for an employee who retires after September 30, 1983 shall consist of an amount payable for life of $12,00 multiplied by the number of years of his credited service accumulated between January 1,1966 and his normal retirement date.
The monthly pension for an employee who retires after September 30, 1988 shall consist of an amount payable for life of $13.00 multiplied by the number of years of his credited service accumulated between January 1,1966 and his normal retirement date.
The monthly pension for an employee who retires after September 30,1992 shall be a guaranteed amount payable for life of $15.00 multiplied by the number of years of his credited service accumulated between January 1,1966 and his normal retirement date.
In no event shall any payment he made after the death of the pensioner unless he shall have elected an optional benefit under Section
5.03	of this Agreement.
(B)	The absence of an employee from active employment at any time when he would be eligible for normal retirement under this Agreement shall not preclude his retirement at that time without return to employment, provided that such absence is due to disability or sick leave, layoff or other Company approved leave of absence.
118
5.02	DISABILITY RETIREMENT PENSION
(A)	An employee who becomes totally and permanently disabled prior to his normal retirement date and has 10 or more years of continuous service shall be eligible for a disability pension. Such pension shallhe calculatedunder Section5,01
(B)	The disability pension shall become payable, if he shall then be living, on the first day of the month next following the latest cf:
(i)	the date on which he shall have filed an application for such pension with the Company on a form supplied by the Company;
(ii)	the date on which his disability retirement shall have commenced; cr
(iii)	the date on which he ceased to receive remuneration from the Company cf draw weekly indemnity benefits under the Welfare Benefit EQai Agreement, and it shall he payable on the first day of each month thereafter up to and including the earlier of the month in which his disability retirement shall end as provided in this Article; or, the month in which his death occurs, unless he shall have elected, cr have been required to elect, an optional benefit under Article 5.03,
(C)	An employee applying for a disability pension shall, if requested by the Company, submit to one cr more physical examinations by a physician or physicians selected by the Company in order that the Company may determine whether such employee is totally and permanently disabledand thus entitled, if otherwise qualified, to a disabilitypension.
(D)	Any pensioner on disability retirement shall be required to submit to a physical examination at any reasonable time and place during such retirement up to his normal retirement date for the purpose of determining his condition, whenever such examination shall be requested by tiie Company, but not more often than twice in any calendar year after total and permanent disability is established. An employee cr pensioner who refuses to submit to any physical examination properly requested in accordancewith the provisions of this Section 5,02 may have his disability pension suspended until he does submit to such physical examinations.
119
(E)	If, after his retirement on disability pension but before his normal retirement cbbe, a pensioner shall cease to be totally and permanently disabled, his disability pension shall cease..
(P) If a pensioner's disability pension ceases pursuant to the provisions of the preceding sub-section 5,02 (E), the Company will reemploy the pensioner in accordance with his seniority existing at the date of his retirement if the Company has a job available for him that he can do the satisfaction of the Company.
If the Company does not rehire the pensioner and the only reason for not doing so is because the pensioner does not have the ability to perform the available job to the satisfaction of the Company, then the pensioner's disability pension will continue in accordance with sub-section 5.02(E).
(G) Any employee who was retired on a disability pension in accordance with Section 5,02 of this Agreement and who is re-employed upon the termination of his disability shall, upon his subsequent retirement under any section of this Agreement, be entitled to a pension based on his credited service accumulatedon his disability retirement date increased by any credited service attributable to his service subsequent to his date <£re-employment.
5.03	OPTIONAL PENSION BENEFIT
(A)	NORMAL FORM OF PENSION
The normal form of pension under the agreement is payable for the lifetime of the employee.
(B)	AUTOMATIC FORM OF PENSION
Any employee who has a spouse at the time of pension commencement must take his pension in a joint and survivor form under which the pension benefit shall continue to the spouse after the death of the employee at the rate of 60% of the pension which in payment to the employee immediately prior to his death and shall continue to be paid for the lifetime of the spouse. In this event, the amount cf pension payable to
120
the employee shall be reduced such that the value of his pension benefit shall be actuariallyequivalent to the normal form of pension.
Any other form of pension provided herein may be elected if the employee and his spouse both waive the entitlement to this joint and survivor form of payment in the prescribed form or by means of a certified copy of a domestic contract as defined under the Family Law Act. To be valid, the waiver must be delivered to the Company within the 12-month pericd immediately preceding the commencementcfpayments.
(C)	OPTICNALFORMS OF PENSION
Subjectto Article 5.03(B), an employee may elect an optional form cf pension by notifying the Company in writing prior to his date of retirementoftheoptionaltypeofpensionhewishestoreceive. The amount of pension payable to an employee under an optional form shall be reduced such that 1te value c£ his optional pension benefit shall be actuarially equivalent to the normal form of pension. Any election of an optional type of pension may be revoked or altered to another optional type if done in writing prior to the commencement of his pension. Any option elected becomes binding upon the commencement date of the pension.
The optional forms of pension available are as follows:
(i)	UFE- GUARANTEEDFIVE YEARS
This type of pension provides payments for the entire. lifetime of the employee and guarantees that, should the employee die after his pension has commenced but before he has received 60 monthly payments thereof, the payments dBllbe continuedto his beneficiary or estate until 60 monthly paymentsin all have been made.
(ii)	LIFE • GUARANTEEDTEN YEARS
This type, of pension provides payments for the entire lifetime of the employee and guarantees that, should the employee die after his pension has commenced but before he has received 120 monthly payments thereof, the payments shall be continued to his beneficiary or estate until 120 monthly payments in all have been made.
(til) LIFE - GUARANTEED FIFTEEN YEARS
121
This type of pension provides payments for the entire lifetime of the employee and guarantees that, should the employee die after his pension has commencedbut before he has received 180 monthly payments thereof, the payments shall be continued to his beneficiary or estate until 180 monthly payments in all have been made.
(iv) JOINT AND SURVIVORSHIPPLAN
(a)	A joint and survivor pension which shall continue to the joint annuitant after the death <£ the employee in the same amount as received by the employee immediatelyprior to the date of his death, or
(b)	A joint and survivor pension which shall continue to the joint annuitant after the death of the employee at 15% cf the amount as received by the employee immediatelyprior to the date of his death.
In the event of the death of the joint annuitant before the commencement date of the pension, the option vill be cancelled and the pension will becnie payable to the employee in the normal form. In such case, the employee may elect another option in writing prior to the date of commencementof his pension.
5.04	DEFERRED VESTED PENSION
Any employee whose services are terminated prior fo his normal retirement date and who has 2 or more years cf continuous service at the date of termination of employment shall be entitled to a deferred vested pension calculated in accordance with Article5.01 cf this agreement as in effect on the last day cf active employment. and payable from his normal retirement date.
Any employee whose services axe terminated on or after January 1, 1988 and prior to his normal retirement date and who has 2 or more years of credited service but less than 10 years of continuous service at the date, of termination of employment shall be entitled to deferred vested pension calculated in accordance with Article 5.01 of this agreement, as in effect on the last day of active employment, reduced by his accrued pension benefit as at December 31, 1986, and payable from, his normal retirement date.
122
A person entitled to a deferred vested pension benefit shall make written application to the Company not earlier than sixty days prior to the commencement of such pension. Upon application made later than normal retirement date, retroactive payments will be made for the elapsed months after normal retirement date.
An employeewhose services are terminated on or after January 1, 1988 and who is not entitled to the immediate payment of a pension benefit shall have the right to elect that, in lieu of his deferred vested pension, an amount equal to the commuted value of his deferred vested pension be paid out of the pension fund in a lump sum:
(i)	To the pension fund or another pension plan, providing the administratorof the other pension plan agreesto acceptthe payment;
(ii)	Into the employee's registered retirement savings plan (RRSP)» providing the institution receiving the funds agrees to administer the funds in accordance with the requirements of the Pension Benefits Act, 1987; or
(iii)	To a Canadian Life Insurance Company for the purchase of a life annuity, such life annuity not to commence more than 10 years before his normal retirement date.
An employee whose services are terminated on or after January 1, 1988 shall receive written notice of his entitlements under the agreement and the options availableto him within 30 days of his termination of service or within 30 days of the Company's notification of his termination of service, whichever is later.
5.05	EARLY RETIREMENT
An employee who has attained age 55 may retire early under this Agreement at any time prior to his normal retirement date and receive the pension basafit set out in Article 5,01, reduced such that the value of the early retirement pension is actuariallyequivalent to the value of the pension payable from normal retirement date.
An employee who has attained age 55, has completed 10 or more years of continuous service, may retire early under this agreement at
123
any time prior to his normal retirementdate and receive the pension benefit setoutin Article 5,01, reducedby 4/10 cf 1% for each month by which his early retirement date precedes his normal retirement date.
An employeewhose serviceis terminated on or after January 1, 1988 and who isoTtitledtoa deferred vested pension payable from the fund on his normal retirement date may request that his pension benefit commenceon the fist day of any month after his attainment of age 55 and prior to his normal retirement date. In such event, the pension shall be reduced such that the value of the early retirement pension is actuarially equivalent to the value of the deferred vested pension.
5.06	METHOD OF PAYMENT
The Company may adopt such procedures as it shall find convenient with respect to the payment of pensions where the amount payable is leas than $10,00 per month and may pay any such pension quarterly or annually.
5.07	PENSIONERUNABLE TO MANAGE HIS AFFAIRS
If the Company finds in its opinion, that any pensioner to whom a pension is payable frcm the pension turd is unable to manage his affairs because of illness or accident, any payment due (unless a prior claim therefore shall have been made by a duly appointed guardian, committeeor other legal representative)may be paid to the spouse, a child, a parent or a brother or sister of the pensioner r to any person deemed by the Company to have incurred expense for such pensioner. However, the Company shall endeavour to give effect to the wishes of the pensioner in this respect when such wishes shall have been expressed in writing by the pensioner before he shallhavebeccmeunableto manage his affairs, Any such payment shdll be a payment for the account of the pensioner and shall be a complete dischargeof any liability under this Agreement therefore.
5.08	BENEFITS ON DEATH
124
Upon the death of an employee on or after January 1, 1988 and prior to his retirement, his spouse shall be entitled to a lump sum amount calculated as the commuted value of the employee's pension benefit at his date of death reduced by his accrued pension benefit as at December 31, 1986. If the employee has no spouse, the lump sum amount will be payable to his designated beneficiary or, if none, to his estate.
Upon the death of a former employee whose service was terminated on or after January 1, 1988 and who is entitled to a deferred vested pension payable at his normal retirement date, his spouse shall be entitled to a lump sum amount calculated as the commuted value of the former employee's deferred vested pension reduced by his accrued pension benefit as at December 31, 1986.
Upon the death of an employee who is receiving a pension from the fund at his time of death, pension payments shall cease immediately unless an optional form of pension was elected at the time of retirement in which case benefits shall be paid in accordance with the optional pension elected.
5.09 DESIGNATED BENEFICIARY
An employee may, by written notice to the Company, designate a person to receive the benefits payable under the agreement on his death and may also, by written notice to the Company, alter or revoke such designation from tine to time, subject always to the provisions of any law governing the designation of beneficiaries.
Notwithstanding the above, an employee who has a spouse may not designate any other beneficiary to receive benefits in respect of the employee's service on and after January 1, 1987 unless the employee and his spouseboth waive the entitlement to any death benefits in the prescribed form or by means of a certified copy of a domestic contract as defined under the Family Law Act.
ARTICLE VI -ELIGIBILITY
125
6.01	NEW EMPLOYEES
A new employee becomes eligible from his date of hire when he has completed his probationary period as defined in 1he Collective L=toour Agreement. No medical examination will be required.
6.02	LAY-OFF OR LEAVE OF ABSENCE
Credited service shall he accumulated and retained as provided forin Section4.01.
6.03	VOLUNTARY TERMINATIONOR DISCHARGE
An employee loses all rights under this Agreement except any deferred vestedrightshehas acquired under Section5.04.
ARTICLE VC - GENERAL PROVISIONS
7.01	No employee shall be required or pennitted to make any contribution under this Agreement during the team of this Agreementor any renewal thereof.
7.02	The Company shall be. the administratorof the plan and as such shall have the sole responsibility and authority consistent with the provisions cf this Agreement for the operation and administration of the plan.
7.03	Coverage under this Agreement shall not give any employee any additional right to be retained in the employment of die Company, and all employees shall remain subject to discipline, discharge, or lay-off to the
same extent as if this Agreement had not been put into effect.
7.04	A copy of this Agreement and any amendments thereto will be supplied to each employee. The complete text will be available for examination at the offices of the Company.
126
7.05	Should the Federal or Provincial Government pass legislation creating a program which would enable or require the Company to transfer a deferred vested pension of a person whose employment has terminated into a special fund, the Company may participate in such a program, and such participation shall be considered a complete discharge of the Company's liabilities under this Agreement.
7.06	The seniority of any employee who retires in accordance with this Agreement shall cease for the purpose of applying the provisions of any Collective Labour Agreement which now is or hereafter shall be in effect between the Company and the Union, except that if a pensioner is rehired on cessation of his disability retirement, he shall be credited with the service which he had at the time of his disability retirement and shall accumulate further service from the feme he starts work after he has been rehired.
7.07	(A) Should any dispute. arise between the Company and an employee with reference to eligibility for baiefits a: payment cf claims under this Agreement, or if a dispute should arise between the Company and the Union as to whether the Company has provided and continues to provide benefits as herein described, such dispute. may be taken as a grievance under the grievance provisions of the Collective Labour Agreementthen in effect, omitting however all steps preceding presentation of grievance, in which the personnel manager participates.
(B)	If a grievance is taken to arbitrationunder the provisions of the Collective Labour Agreement, the arbitrator or board of arbitration, insofar as it may be necessary to the determination of such grievance, shall have authority only to interpret and apply the provisions of this Agreement and the Collective Labour Agreement.
(C)	The arbitrator or arbitration board shall have no authority to add to cr subtract from any provisions of this agreement or to waive or fail to apply any requirement of eligibility for benefit.
127
(D)	The decision of an arbitratoror the majority decision of an arbitration board on any grievance properly referred shall be binding upon the Company,the Union and the employee.
7.08	Should any dispute arise between the Company and any employee applicant for a disability pension or pensioner on disability retirement as to whether he is, or continues to be, totally and permanently disabled as defined in this Agreement, such dispute shall be resolved as follows:
(A)	The employee applicant or pensioner shall be examined by a physician appointedfor that purpose by the Company and by a physician appointedf<x that purpose by the Union.
(B)	If they disagree concerning either total and permanent disability, a: disability under Section 5,02, as the case may be, the question shall be submitted to a third physician selected by the said two physicians. The opinion of the third physician, after examinationcf the disabledperson and consultation with the other two physicians shall decide such question and such decision shall be binding upon the Company, the Union and the disabled person. The fees and expenses of the third physician shall be shared equally by the Company and the Union.
7.09	Noactiontakeninperformanceofthe terms cf this Agreement and consistent herewith shall be. construed or interpreted to be a Violation of any of the terms of any Collective Labour Agreement between the Company and the Union.
7.10	The Union shall be furnished with. such pertinent information as it may reasonably quest from time to time, with respect to the pension benefits hereunder,
7.11	SPLITTING OF CREDITS ON MARRIAGE BREAKDOWN
128
The spouse of an employee who is party with such employee to a domestic contract as defmedin Part IV cf the Family Law Act, 1986 may become entitled, pursuant to such domestic contract or to an order under Part I of such Act, to payment of a portion of the employee's benefits under this Agreement.
ARTICLE Vm - MODIFICATIONAND TERMINATION
8.01	This Agreement is subject to such amendments from tine to time as may be necessary to meet the requirements of any applicable Federal or Provincial laws, orders cr regulations.
8.02	If at any time the Federal or Provincial Government passes legislation which directly cr indirectly has the effect of providing benefits similar to one or more of the benefits describedin this Agreement for which the employees as aclass shalbe eligible, this Agreement shall terminate in respect to that benefit or benefits upon the expiration of thirty days after the proclamation of such statute. or upon the date the statute comes into effect, whichever is later. Curing such thirty day period or such longer period as may expire after date of proclamation cf the statute, the parties will meet for the purpose of negotiating any amendments required or desirable to assure that the aggregate of the statutory benefits provided under this Agreement consistentwiiii previous costs c£ this Agreement, shall approximate in kind and money value to the benefits provided under this Agreement before said statutory enactment.
8.03	Procedure for allocating the pension fund upon termination of this Agreement.
In the event of termination of the plan, the assets then remaining in the trust fund, after providing the expenses of the plan, shall be allocated by the committee, to the extent that they shall be sufficient for the purpose of paying retirement benefits (based on credited service to the
129
date of termination of the plan), to participants, former participants and retiredparticipants in the following cartel: of precedence:
(A)	First, to provide far:
(1)	The continuation cf annuities in the form in effect with respect to them immediately prior to the plan's termination for those persons who are pensioners, beneficiaries and contingent annuitants under the plan at its termination;
(2)	The payment of an immediate annuity, in an amount equal to the retirement benefithe would have received had he retired on the date of termination to each participant who on the date of termination qualifies for a normal retirementbenefit under Section 5.01;
(3)	The payment of a deferred annuity commencing at age sixty-five(65) in an amount equal to his vested deferred retirement benefit to each person who terminated employment and is eligible for such a benefit pursuant to Section 5.04;
(4)	The payment of a deferred annuity equal to the vested deferredredrement pension to which he would have been entitled if the date of the plan's termination were the date of termination of his employment, to each other participant not in any class above who at the date of the plan's termination is at least age forty-five (45) and has completed at east ten (10) years of credited service.
There shall be no priority among the above. Any person, whether in Group (1), (2), (3) or (4), stands on the same rung of the ladder with a person in any other group.
(B)	Second, if any such assets remain after complete allocation for the purposes of (A) above, they shall be allocated after first establishing classes of participants who are less than age sixty-five (65) on the date of termination and are potentially eligible for a normal retirement benefit by treating each successively younger five (5) year age group as a class using the ape sixty-five (65) as a base. An order of allocation priority shall then be established beginning with the oldest class. The assets shall then be
allocated to participants in each such class who have an interest herein on
account of credited service prior to the date of termination of the plan in an
130
amount equal to the actuarial value of such interest. The allocations of the amounts, if any, in each class for full orreducedretirementbenefits for such participants shall be on the basis of annuity values providing for the payment of such benefits (commencing at the age of first eligibility for a normal benefit) in the form, applicable to such participants, which would have prevailed bad the plan not been discontinued with application for reduction of retirement benefits, as in (A) above.
Such allocation shall be accomplished through the continuance of the trust fund which shall be maintained without earmark as the severable equitable interests of those having a share allocated as above. The allocation of assets in this Sashimis merely for the purpose of determining the adequacy of the trust fund to provide reserves for retirement benefits of a certain monthly amount, and is not intended to give any participant such right, title and interest in the trust fund as to entitle him to a segregation of his aliquot share of the trust fund as a separate account.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the trustees, upon finding that it is not practicable or desirable under the circumstancesto continue the trust fund with respect to some or all of the groups listed above, the trustees may provide for the disposition of all or a part of the trust fund in a manner other than by the continuance of the trust fund with respect to some or all of the groups listed above, but no change shall be affected thereby in the order of precedence and basis for allocation above established.
Further, if required to dispose of the trust fund other than by its continuance because of a government rule or statute, such trust fund shall be disposed of in accordance with such rule or statute. If any allocation produces a retirement benefit of less than fifty dollars ($50.00) per year for any person, the trustees may pay in lieu of a retirement benefit a lump sun of equivalent actuarial value,
Anything in this plan which might be construed to the contrary notwithstandinghowever, it shall be impossible at any time for any part of the corpus or income of the trust fund to revert to the Company.
8.04
131
AMENDMENTS
Amendments to this plan may be made in writing by mutual consent of both parties.
8.05	TERMINATION
This Agreement as effective October 1, 1989 shall remain in full force and effect until September 30, 1992 and shall continue in effect thereafter from year to year for further periods cf one year each unless either party shall have given written notice of termination or written notice of proposals for amendment to the other party not less than two months but not more than three months prior to tire expiration date or any anniversary date thereafter.
In the event of written notice of termination of proposals for amendment having been given by either party as herein provided, negotiations shall be proceeded with during the notice period with a view to completing a new Agreement. Should such negotiations extend beyond the expiration date, this Agreement shall remain in full force and effect until negotiations are broken cfE by either party. In the event l^snrdratim is given by either party, this Agreement shall continue to operate in the manner as provided in Sanhim 59 cf the Labour Relations Act cf Cfttardo (R.S.) 1979 CH 232 as amendedOctober 1977.
In witness whereof each of the parties hereto has caused this plan to be signed the first day cf October, 1995, by its authorized representatives as of the day and year first above written.
FOR THE COMPANY Howard Hallam
Pat Steals
FOR THE NATIONAL UNION
Wayne McKay
Steven Paterson
Jamie Ranslev
Mark Wraith
Paul Hav
MiVhagl Wilson Ruth Wagner
132
Letter No, 1 9-HOUR SHIFTS
The second shift operations on a two shift rotation will be scheduledto operate as follows:
Monday through Thursday	3:25 p.m, -12:55 a.m.
Friday	3:25 p.m. - 7:25 p.m.
Therefore, your normal 40-hour work week will be completed at 7:25 p.m. on Friday evening. The rest periods and lunch periods will be scheduled as normal (no additional breaks).
No overtime premium will be. paid Monday through Thursday unless employees work more than 9 hours.
If overtime is necessary on Friday evenings, it is anticipated that the employees working the above shift will work the overtime.
For this scheduling to be. successful, we must be made aware of any problems that may occur. Hopefully, we will be able to correct them. It is extremely important that you make your foreman and the Union Executiveaware of any problems.
Letter No. 2 10-HOUR SHIFTS
The purpose of this Memorandum of Agreement is to implement, on a trial basis, a 10-hour shift to run for four consecutive days. This would only affect employees on the afternoon shift who are on a regular 2-shift rotation.
If the Company requires a third shift, cr if other unforeseen circumstances make the 10-hour shift impractical to be. continued, the Company will confer with the Union regarding the situation prior to any discontinuanceof this shift. This shift may be discontinued by either party if problems arise that cannot be corrected to the satisfactionof all.
133
The Company agrees to pay holiday pay to anyone working on this shift who would normally qualify for holiday pay under the terms of the Collective Labour Agreement, pay at 10 hours of Indirect Labour and 12 hours for Direct Labour. In cases of bereavement, the Friday will be counted as a working day, but pay will not be given in bereavement cases. Instead, employees WH be paid for the full 10 hours on Monday through Thursday,
It is understood by the Union that if overtime is required, employees on the IO-hour shift operation may be required to work a fifth 8-hour shift on Friday.
It is also understood that the Company cr the Union can bring any problem caused by the operation of this shift to the attention of the other party in an effort to make a resolution.
LETTER No. 3 SUBSTANTIALLAYOFF
Prior to any substantial lay-off during the term of the Collective Labour Agreement, the Company will discuss same with the Union, and decide what if anything can be done to maintain senior
employees.
To: Linda White February 24, 1993 From: Howard Hail am
Subject: ClarificationLetter for "Seniority Letter"
CLARIFICATIONLETTER FOR "SENIORITY LETTER"
In the event of a substantial lay-off (2 weeks or more) during the term of the Collective Labour Agreement, the Company will lay off and recall by Master Seniority.
134
It is understood by the parties that situations may arise in which this may not be accomplished immediately due to the amount of people to be trained or the job classifications involved. The Company will therefore discuss with the Union to see what, if anything, can be done to protect the senior employees.
Howard Hallam,
Manager of Human Resources
Letter No. 4
INTER-PLANTTRANSFERS
To: Linda VUiite, Resident, CBRT & GW Local451 From: Howard Hallam Subject: Letter of Understanding
The purpose of this letter is to implement a transfer agreement between Standard Products(Canada) Ltd, and the CBRT Sc GW local 451 for Plants 1 and 2. This Agreement will remain in effect until cancelled by either party upon 30 days written notice.
The transfer agreement will be utilized by moving personnel from one division to another using the following guidelines:
1)	Job postings will be simultaneously posted in both divisions for openings in either plant with the understanding that selection will be made in the division where the opening actually exists first.
2)	If no one signs the posting from the division in which the vacancy exists, a selection from the employees who signed the posting from the other division will he made in accordance with Section 12.01 (B) of the Collective Agreement. They will be transferred as soon as possible. Exceptions may be necessary where productivity demands dictate.
135
3)	successful applicants upon transfer will accumulate seniority in their new division only, but will retain their former seniority in their former division.
Such employees, (after probationary period) will be required to remain in their new division for at lest one (1) year from their date of master seniority. On a layoff situation, the one year stipulation Villi be waived. However, any employee who does not successfully complete their probationary period vaH be returned to his/her original position in their former division.
For the purpose. of this transfer agreement, only master seniority from the division in which an employee is currently working viH be used for signing postings for vacancies in other division.
Seniority retained in other than an employee's present division wall not he. recognized for bumping purposes but will be recognized upon returning to former division by any subsequent transfer and by lay-off provisions as openings come available.
4)	Although seniority vill only accumulate in the division the employee is presently working, all service with the Company viH continue to count towards pension and vacation calculations.
5)	Vacancies created as aresult of the transfer will be posted in accordance with the Collective Labour Agreement as a step 2 posting.
In order to allow this Agreement to continue to the benefit of both parties, open communicationis essential.
In view of the great deal of discussion between the parties in the preparation of this understanding, future readers should be aware that this constitutes the maximum and limit of the flexibility of inter-plant
136
movements other than those provided for by the Collective Labour Agreement.
CLARIFICATION
When employees nHI-i-aa the Transfer Agreement and move from one plant to another and subsequentto obtaining their master seniority in the second plant they are put on lay-off status and recalled to their former plant when an opening becomes available.
1)	Seniority in original plant can be nhiliTgri for layoffs and group openings (no bumping), but postings will not be awarded to them unless no one signs the posting from either plant, for the one year period stipulatedin the transfer agreement.
2)	They will have priority recall as per their seniority rights to original plant, i.e. A Plant #1 person who is transferred to Plant #2 and laid off after master seniority, will have first recall to Plant #1 by seniority before Plant #2 people with no seniority.
As further clarification to the transfer agreement entered into on June 4, 1990 and the subsequent letter of clarification dated January 10, 1992 the parties agree to the following:
When employees are on lay-off status from one plant, job postings will be posted within that plant only and not in the second facility. Upon recall of all active employees within the said division that the job opening occursthe 2 plantjob posting systemwould reactivate.
This will confirm that the parties have agreed that when an employee transfers frcm one plant to another through the transfer agreement, and subsequently returns to the original plant prior to obtaining master seniority in the second facility, the days worked in said facility will be
137
recorded and placed la his/her file. Copies will be given to the employee and Union for future reference.
Furthermore,if said employee returns to the second plant la the future, after completion of their probationary period, they can approach the Company to have the days worked previously added to their seniority cfebe.
Letter No. 5
GROUP #17
Occupational Group #17 - Plant #1 and Plant #2
Memorandum of Agreement between Standard Products (Canada) Limited and the Canadian Brotherhood of Railway Transport & General Workers, Local 451.
It has been agreed by the parties that Group #17 Teaching and
Repairs:
1)	Shall be an Indirect Labour Group with rates of pay as listed in the Collective Labour Agreement dated October 1, 1995 under Schedule #2A, 2B and2C, Plant #1 and Schedule3A, 3B and3C, Plant #2,
2)	Shall be a non-seniority group with no seniority rights within the group.
3)	Shall be the group to which Direct Labour Incentive employees shall he transferred whenever they are directed by supervisorto perform the duties of:
a)	Teaching or training
b)	Repairs
138
c)	Mould cleaning both glass bead and acid
d)	Shot-comer mould cleaning
e)	Dip-room clean-up
f)	Mould changeover - weatherstrip line
Group #16-- Cement Room Operator - - Plant # 1 only
Whenever an employee is performing the duties of Group #16, but is unable to earn incentive because of line shutdown he or s/19 shall be transferredto Group #17 and paid the rate cf Group #17.
Group #3 and Group #9 -- Plant #1
Whenever an employee is working in Group #3 or Group #9 of Schedule #2 is directed by supervision to transfer into Group #17 in the capacity of Utility, or Lead Hand, his or her rate of pay will be:
Current Group #17 rate of pay plus .15 cents per hour.
It is understood
1)	Group #17 will not apply when Direct Labour NonIncentive or Indirect Labour employees are directed to perform the above and named duties.
2)	Group #17 shall not apply to those operations where minor repairs to a part is part of the incentive standard.
3)	Group #17 shall not apply when a Direct Labour Incentive employee. is directed to rework or repair defective parts which are the result of his or her own poor workmanship or carelessness.
4)	Group #17 tdH not apply for the normal daily end of shift
cleanup.
139
Letter No. 6
OVERTIME
October 1, 1986
As agreed during negotiations, the Company is prepared to extend the time limit to grieve in the case (£overtime.
In an endeavour to maintain good working relationships with all employees, the Company will advise the Union Executive when it cannot get enough qualified employees to run any operation scheduled to work overtime.
This wiH be done., where possible, prior to implementing mandatory overtime.
Wayne M. Fraser,
Personnel Manager
CLARIFICATION
When employees are absent from the positions listed below, the Company shall as?: people holding the occupational group seniority needed or ask for overtime workers on other shifts to cover the absenteeism. 1/ everyone bolding the group seniority has been asked and refused, or for short periods until they become available, the Ccrrpany shall have the right to adc employees who are familiar with and capable of doing the job. This clause will not limit the Company's right to decide Uareplacementlsnecessary or not
The positions are leadhands, cement roan, foam roan, quality control, shippers, working job controllers, launch program, development, mill room (Plant 1), all set-up personnel, Job facilitators, and other as mutually agreed upon by the parties
140
Tffrfer No. 7
WAREHOUSE
Where production activities from Plant #1 and Plant #2 are being done in the warehouse, the parties agree to the following:
1.	No employee shall be laid off from Plant #1 or Plant #2 from Occupadooal Groups #12 and #13 where a non-bargaining unit employeeis working in the warehouse on the inventory control position;
2.	Tow motor training will be provided for the individuals required to drive a tow motor,
3.	A bulletin board will be provided for the job postings and Company communications;
4.	A nrimiapH Joint Health and Safety committee member will be given an opportunity to tour the production area once per month to ensure adequate safety measures arebelng observed;
5.	If their job is transferred to the warehouse they will be given the option of transferring.
6.	No work that is normally and historically performed by Plant #1 and Plant #2 employees, will be done in the warehouse if employees® in either Plant #1 or #2 are laid off or not scheduled to work.
The above applies only while production work firm Plant #1 and Plant #2 is in the facility and in no way hinders the Company's right to operate the warehouseas In the past as a non-Union facility,
141
Letter No. 8
TIME STUDY REPRESENTATIVE
It is understood and agreed that the service to provide a Local Union Time Study Representative will continue during the term of this agreements follows:
Said representativewill be paid by the Companyforthe time which it Is necessary for him/her to lose from his/her regular duties, in order to attend Time Study Training Courses Jointly approved by the Company and the Union.
Etees for such approved time study courses and the expenses relating thereto will be borne by the Company.
Upon his/her appointment the Company will then initiate a training program for the said local Union time study representative.
When necessary, the local Uhim time study representative shall have access to such Company time study records that are required in the performance of such duties.
AttherequestoftheUhimtothesupervisor Industrial Engineering, the local Union time study representative will be excused from his/her regular duties where possible to Investigate and study standard grievances, attend meetings that involve violation of incentive standards and attend time study training courses which have been approved by the Company.
Letter No. 9
142
WEEKEND SHIFT
The purpose of this letter is to implement a weekend shift that will operate as follows:
1,	Hours at work would be:
Friday and Saturday 10:55 p,m. -10.55 a.m. (midnights) Saturday and Sunday 10:55 am. - 10:55 p*m* (afternoons) t/only one shift 7:00 a.m. • 7:00 p,m, (noshift premiums)
or,
10:55 p.m, Friday • 10:55 am. Saturday
10:55 am Saturday -10:55 p.m, Saturday
Shift premium would be paid on afternoon and midnight
shifts
2.	Holiday pay and attendance award days are as per the collective agreement and would be paid over and above the hours worked on weekends.
3.	Pay:	twelve (12) hours pay attimeand one-half (T1/2) for
the first day of the weekend shift;
twelve(L2) hours pay at double time (2x*s) for second
day of weekend shift
TOTAL forty-two (42) hours pay
Pay day on Thursday after 9:00 a.m. and before 12:00 noon on Friday at Plant #2 reception.
4.	Employees working weekend shift under this agreement will receive a twenty (20) minute paid lunch and 4-10 minute paid break periods.
143
5,	Incentive earnings will be paid on hours worked.
6,	Cost of living allowance paid for hours paid (42 hours), plus COLA on additional hours paki for.
7,	Each shift will equal U days for seniority and 2.5 days for attendanceaward days.
8,	Pay for bereavement will occur only Lf time lost. (Le. full pay If death occurs Friday. No pay if occurs on Monday.)
9,	Weekend shifts will rotate on a weekly basis unless only one weekend shift W required, Any employee unable to work his/her scheduled shift for the weekend will be responsible to find someone on the full shift to Switch With them. This will not be a Company responsibility, Where there b failure to find someone, the employee is required to work his/her scheduled shift.
10,	The employee will give the Company thirty (30) days written notice of his/her wish to transfer fern the weekend drift.
11,	Weekend shift will be offered by master seniority within the group U familiar with and capable of doing the work Employees transferring Into groups With weekend drift through job postings will have to wait for an opening on this shift
12,	Sick and accident will be paid as per the collective labour agreement with Saturday and Sunday equating to the normal five (5) days of production an d the flv e (5) days equalling a weekend.
13,	Overtime required during the week will be offered to employees working on the shift required as per Article 14.04 (a) (1) and then
144
weekend shift to be asked before 14.04 (a) (2),(3),(4),and (5) seniority. Overtime through the week will be paid first eight (8) hours per shift at time and one*half (11/2).
14.	Christmas holidays will be paid as per this agreement on holidays. Time cff from weekend drift may or may not be given but holidays will be paid regardless.
15.	One (1) weekend shift would equate to one (1) week's vacation for vacation entitlement.
16.	This letter can be cancelled by either party upon thirty (30) days notice.
17.	Duration of this shift will be six (6) mouths to be readdressed in April and October. At this time, If weekend shift Is still required, refer back to Nd. 11, The Company and the Lhim agree to review if situations arise which may require amending ttiis arrangement for temporary periods.
Letter Nd. 10 ORIENTATION
The Company during its indoctrination of new employees will give the thim tat (10) to fifteen (15) minutes with the new employees for introductions*
Letter Nd. 11
NON-DISCRXMINATION/HARASSMENT
Introduction
Both the Company and the Union are committed to providing a workplace free of discrimination and harassment. Providing fair and
145
H
I
equitable treatment for all employees is best achieved in an environment where all individuals interact with mutual respect for each other's rights. All employees are expected to treat all persons with courtesy and consideration and must not engage in discrimination or harassment because of a prohibited ground contrary to the Ontario Human Rights Code (the "Code"). Prohibited grounds are race, anoestoy, place cf cncpn, colour ethnic origin, citizenship, creed, sex, •sexual orientation, age, record of cffases, marital status, family status or handicap, as defined in the Code. This joint policy shall be interpreted in accordance with and subject to the provisions of the Code.
Complaint and Investigation Procedure
If an employee believes that he/she has been harassed and/or discriminated against on the basis of a prohibited ground of discrimination the employeemay:
a)	Advise the person Involved, as soon as possible, bow you feel and request that he/she stop the conduct you find offensive.
b)	If you feel uncomfortable approaching the person, or if the harassment continues, bring the Incident forming the basis cf the complaint to the attention cf the supervisor and/or Union representative-,
In miner eases, not involvingrepeat incidents, the Company and Union agree (hat the Union may try to resolve a harassment or discrimination complaint between bargaining unit employees Informally using the CAW Internal Procedure without a full Investigation when so requested by the bargaining unit complainant The outcome cf this attempted resolution will be communicated to the Company.
c)	If the supervisor and/or Union representative cannot, to the satisfaction of the employee, deal with the complaint, it will then be submitted in writing to the Joint committee,
The joint committee wll be comprised of two (2) representatives selected by the Company and two (2) representatives
146
selected by the Uhim. Where the complainant is a woman and the complaint involves sexual harassment or gender discrimination, the joint investigation committee will include at least one (l)women These representatives must be appropriately trained regarding harassment and discrimination Issues,
The joint committee will conduct an investigation of the complaint The joint investigation will Indude interviews of the complainant, any employee accused in the complaint, witnesses and other persons named in the complaint. Any Union member interviewed by the joint committee may, if he/she so Wishes, have Union representationpresent during the interview.
It is the intention of the Union and the Company that, where practical, the joint Investigation will begin within five (5) working days of the lodging of the written complaint and shall be completed within fifteen (15) calendar days after the lodging of the written complaint
In conducting the joint investigation, both the Union and the Company shall, to the extent practicable, maintain confidentiality, Records of the investigation, including interviews, evidence and any recommendations made by the joint committee will be securely maintained in the offices of the Company and the Union.
Upon the completion of the joint investigation, the joint committee will complete a written report of its findings and recommendations and submit a copy of the completed report to the human resource person and the plant chairperson, If the members of the joint committee do not agree, the report may reflect differences in the findings.
If a harassment complaint is proven valid, appropriate correctiveaction will be takensgdlnst the offending employees.
If, after completion of a thorough investigation, a harassmentcomplaint can neither be proved nor disproved in the view of the investigators, the local human resource person, on consultation
147
with the local plant chairperson, wilf attempt to resolve the conflict in a manner that Is agreeableto all parties.
If there Is no agreement, the Company reserves the right to take such action as it deems appropriate, subject to the collective agreement.
In the event the complaint remains unresolved and a violation of the collective agreement is alleged, the matter may be considered as a grievance beginning at Step 3 of the grievance procedure-,
Nothing La this letter of understanding prevents an Individual employee complaining of harassment ca: discrimination from filing a co mp 1 ain t under the code.
Letter Nd. 12
The chairperson c£ the Local and the co-chalrperson from each plant will be retained on the day shift where It is practical to do so, or if arrangements ranberrutually agreed upon. It shall not be considered practical If this arrangement causes an employee to work more weeks of afternoons or midnights La comparison, to days, against their wishes,
Letter No. 13
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
INCENTIVE
The Company and the Urrim will endeavour during the life c£ this Collective Agreement to eliminate the incentive system by establishing mutually agreeablenon-lncentlYe rate.
148
THE PENSION PLAN FOR EMPLOYEES OF STANDARD PRODUCTS (CANADA) LIMITED WHO ARE MEMBERS OF
THE CANADIAN BROTHERHOOD OF RAILWAY, TRANSPORT AND GENERAL WORKERS LOCAL 451 (Effective October 1, 1992)
(Defined Contribution Provisions)
May 1993
INDEX
SECTION	TITLE PAGE
I	INTRODUCTION	1
II	DEFINITIONS	2
III	THE FUND 	5
IV	ELIGIBILITY AND MEMBERSHIP	6
V	CONTRIBUTIONS AND INTEREST	8
VI	RETIREMENT 	10
VII	OPTIONAL FORMS OF PENSION 	11
VIII	TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT	13
IX	DEATH BENEFITS	15
X	LEAVES OF ABSENCE 	17
XI	ADMINISTRATION 	19
XII	TERMINATION AND AMENDMENT	23
SECTION 1 ■ INTRODUCTION
1.01	This text sets out the provisions of the Retirement Benefit Plan Between Standard Products (Canada) Limited and the Canadian Brotherhood of Railway, Transport and General Workers Local 451, (the "Plan") as they apply to Members who cease their employment with the Company on or after October 1, 1992.
1.02	The Plan was originally established effective October 1, 1966 and, until September 30, 1992 provided defined benefit pension accruals.
1.03	Pursuant to a collective bargaining agreement between the Company and the Union, the Plan was converted to a money purchase pension plan effective October 1, 1992, with provisions as set out herein. Members' defined benefit accruals for service up to September 30, 1992 may be converted to a money purchase lump sum balance at the Members' option. Where a Member does not elect to convert his defined benefit accruals to a money purchase lump sum, the defined benefit accruals will be commuted and used to purchase an annuity for the Member, subject to the restrictions of any applicable legislation.
1.04	Notwithstanding subsection 1.03, the provisions of the Plan as in effect on September 30, 1992 will continue to govern with respect to pension benefits earned up to September 30,1992 in the case of Members who terminate employment, die or retire before the conversion to a money purchase plan has been formally approved by the regulatory authorities.
The Retirement Benefit Plan Defined Contribution Provisions
Effective October 1. 1992
Page 1
I
SECTION If ■ DEFINITIONS
The following words and phrases, as used herein, shall have the meaning specified below, unless a different meaning is plainly required by the context. Reference to "Section" shall mean a section of this plan text.
2.01	"Act" means the Pension Benefits Act, R.S.O. 1990, as amended, or any future pension legislation that replaces it, as enacted by the Province of Ontario, from time to time, and the Regulations issued thereunder.
2.02	"Administrator" means the Employer, but only when it is acting in a capacity
appropriate to perform the functions and duties set out in the Act and the TSsc Act as are required to be performed by the administrator (as that term is defined in the respective Acts) and to perform the functions and duties assigned in the Plan to the Administrator from time to time.
The Employer as Administrator, through appropriate action of the board of directors of the Employer may delegate any or all of the functions and duties of the Administrator to one or more of the officers of the Employer or such other person or persons as they may identify from time to time subject to the requirements of the Act and the limitations on delegation prescribed by the applicable Business Corporations Act.
2.03	"Collective Agreement" means the collective agreement between the Company and the Union as entered into effective October 1, 1992, and as may be amended or supplemented, or any successor agreement.
2.04	"Company" means the Employer when it is acting in its personal capacity and in its own best interests, and, except for the function set out in the Act of acting as administrator, this shall include, but shall not be limited to, the Employer acting in a capacity appropriate to perform any duties or functions specified in the Act or the Tax Act to be duties or functions of the employer (as that term is defined in the respective Acts) or set out in the Plan from time to time to be duties or functions of the Company.
The Employer as Company, through appropriate action of the board of directors of the Employer, may delegate any or all of the functions and duties cf the Company
The Retirement Benefit Plan
Defined Contribution Ercvisicns
Effective October 1, 1992
Page 2
to one or more of the officers of the Employer or such other person or persons as they may identify from time to time subject to the requirements of the Act and the limitations on delegation prescribed by the applicable Business Corporations Act.
2.05	"Employee" means any employee of the Company who is a member of the Union.
2.06	"Employer" means Standard Products (Canada) Limited.
2.07	"Funding Agency" means the trust or insurance company or companies licensed to do business in Canada and successors thereof as the Company may appoint from time to time to hold, administer and invest the Pension Fund.
2.08	"Funding: Agreement" means the agreement or agreements entered into between the Company and the Funding Agency for the purpose of establishing and maintaining the Pension Fund.
2.09	"Interest", for the purposes of this text, in respect of the Pension Fund for any specified period shall mean the investment earnings of the Pension Fund during that period less the administration expenses that are charged against the Pension Fund during that period pursuant to subsection 11.07. Investment earnings shall include realized and unrealized gains and losses where applicable.
2.10	"Member" means an Employee who has been enroled and participates in the Plan and shall include, where the context requires, a former Employee who continues to be entitled to benefits under the Plan.
2.11	"Money Purchase Account" of a Member shall mean the account established for the Member pursuant to subsection 5.03 into which the contributions made by the Company are credited.
2.12
2.13
"Normal Retirement Date" means the first day of the month coinciding with or immediately following, the month in which the Member attains his 65th birthday.
p? <
"Pension Fund" means the fund established pursuant to the Funding Agreement to which all contributions by the Company and the Members are made, and from which all benefits under this Plan are to be paid.
The Retirement Benefit Plan Defined Contribution Provisions
Effective October 1. 1992	Page 3
2.14 "Plan" means the Retirement Benefit Plan Between Standard Products (Canada) Limited and the Canadian Brotherhood of Railway, Transport and General Workers Local 451, (Plants 1 and 2).
2.15	"Plan Year" means the twelve-month period ending December 31st each year.
2.16	"Spouse", where used to refer to the spouse of a Member, means a person of the opposite sex, who
(a)	is married to the Member and is not living separate and apart from the
Member or
(b)
is not married to the Member but is a person with whom the Member has been living in a conjugal relationship,
(i)
continuously for a period of not less than 3 years, or
of some permanence, if they are the natural or adoptive parents of a child, both as defined in the Family Law Act (Ontario).
2.17	"Tax Act" means the Income Tax Act (Canada), as amended from time to time, the
Regulations issued thereunder and the administrative rules adopted by Revenue Canada, Taxation from time to time.
2.18	"Union" means the Candian Brotherhood of Railway, Transport and General Workers, Local 451, (Plants 1 and 2).
Any term printed in this text in italics shall have assigned to it the meaning which it is given in the Tax Act, in the context of its use herein.
Words importing either gender include the other gender and words importing the singular include the plural, or vice versa, as the context requires.
The Retirement Benefit Plan
Defined Contribution Provisions
Effective October 1, 1992
Page 4
SECTION III - THE FUND
3.01	Pension Fund
The Administrator shall establish and maintain during the life of this Plan a Pension Fund under the terms of a Funding Agreement, of which this Plan forms a part, to be held and invested by the Funding Agency, subject to the provisions cf the Act and the Tax Act.
3.02	Funding Agency
The Pension Fund will be administered by the Funding Agency in accordance with the terms of the Funding Agreement.
3.03	Change in Funding Agency
The Company may appoint another Funding Agency to hold all or a portion of the Pension Fund and may appoint an investment manager or managers to invest the monies in the Pension Fund.
3.04	Investment of Assets
The Administrator shall ensure that the assets of the Plan are invested in accordance with the Act and the Tax Act, and in that regard, shall obtain an undertaking from any investment manager or managers appointed by the Company to invest the assets that such assets will be invested in accordance with the Act and the TSk Act, and with any written guidelines provided by the Administrator.
3.05	Rights Not Enlarged
No person shall have any right, title or interest upon or in respect of the Pension Fund or upon or against the Administrator or the Company or any of its directors, officers or employees except under or in accordance with the provisions of the Plan as set out herein.
The Retirement Benefit Plan Defined Contribution Provisions
Effective October 1, 1992
Page 5
SECTION IV - ELIGIBILITY AND MEMBERSHIP
4.01	Eligibility And Membership
(a)	Each Employee who was a Member of the Plan on September 30, 1992 shall remain a Member of the Plan on and after October 1, 1992 subject to the terms of the Plan as herein and hereafter set out.
Each Employee not contemplated in paragraph 4.01(a) shall automatically become a Member of the Plan, on or after October 1, 1992, upon satisfying one of the following requirements:
attainment of seniority status with the Company,
completion of twenty-four months of continuous full-time employment with the Company without regard to periods of lay-off or suspension, or
(iiQ completion of twenty-four months of less than full-time continuous employment with the Company without regard to periods of lay-off or suspension, where the Employee has either:
(A)	had earnings in the year of not less than 35% of the Year’s Maximum Pensionable Earnings for that year under the Canada Pension Plan, or
(B)	worked not fewer than 700 hours in each of the two consecutive calendar years immediately prior to his joining the Plan.
4.02	Rights
Membership in the Plan shall not confer any legal right upon the Employee for continuation of employment.
4.03	Re-employment
If an Employee terminates his service with the Company and is later re-employed he shall for the purposes of the Plan, be regarded as a new Employee. Any rights
The Retirement Benefit Plan Defined Contribution Provisions
Effective October 1, 1992
Page 6
previously vested in respect of his prior period of service shall not be affected by such re-employment.
4.04
Transfer to Another Position Within Company,
Any Employee who transfers his employment within the Company to another position in which he ceases to be an Employee for the purposes of this Plan shall immediately cease to accrue benefits under this Plan but shall not be deemed to have terminated employment for purposes of this Plan. The Money Purchase Account of such an individual shall continue to be maintained and shall continue to accrue Interest but no further Company contributions or optional Member contributions shall be made.
4.05	Participation in One Plan Only
An Employee who becomes a Member of this Plan shall thereupon cease to accrue pension benefits under any other pension plan that is sponsored by the Company or to which the Company contributes, other than universal government-sponsored plans.
The Retirement Benefit Plan Defined Contribution Provisions
Effective October 1, 1992
Page 7
SECTION V • CONTRIBUTIONS AND INTEREST
5.01	Company Contributions
Subject o Section 10, the Company shall remit the following contributions to the Pension Fund:
(a)
Date of Employment Jan. 1, 1990 or Later between Jan. 1, 1980 between Jan. 1, 1975 between Jan. 1, 1970 Prior to 1970
and Dec. 31, 1989 and Dec. 31, 1979 and Dec. 31, 1974
Contribution Rate $30 $40 $45 $50 $60
(b)
an amount equal to 100% of the optional contribution made by a Member in accordance with paragraph 5.02 (b).
Subject to the prior approval of the Superintendent of Pensions of Ontario, any overpayment by the Company in the Plan Year in excess of the amount required to be contributed under this subsection, or payments made by the Company that could have been paid out of the Pension Fund, may be returned to the Company out of the Pension Fund.
5.02
Member Contributions
(a) A Member shall not be required to make contributions to the Plan.
(b)
Upon completion of the prescribed payroll deduction authorization form, a Member may be permitted to make an optional contribution of $10 a month.
5.03	Money Purchase Accounts
A Money Purchase Account shall be established for each Member. Contributions made by the Company in respect of the Member and optional contributions made by the Member shall be credited to the Member's Money Purchase Account.
5.04	Remittance
The contributions made pursuant to this Section 5 shall be deposited in the Pension Fund no later than the end of the month following the month in respect of which
The Retirement Benefit Plan Defined Contribution Provisions
Effective October 1, 1992
Page 8
the contributions are made. Such contributions shall be allocated immediately to each Member’s Money Purchase Account.
5.05	Crediting of Interest
Each contribution made pursuant to this Section 5 will accrue Interest from the end of the month following the month in respect of which the contributions are made.
5.06	Maximum Contributions
Notwithstanding the other provisions of this Section 5, in any calendar year, in respect of any Member, the total of:
(a)	the Company contributions made pursuant to subsection 5.01;
(b)	the Member contributions made pursuant to subsection 5.02; and
(c)	any contributions made to a Company-sponsored or non-ann’s length company-sponsored plan by or on behalf of the Member,
shall in no event exceed the lesser of the money purchase limit for the year and 18% of the Member’s compensation from the Company €or the year.
5.07	No Withdrawal
While he remains in the employment of the Company, a Member may not withdraw any portion of his Money Purchase Account balance to the Plan.
The Retirement Benefit Pian Defined Contribution Provisions
Effective October 1, 1992	Page 9
SECTION VI ■ RETIREMENT
6.01	Normal Retirement
Except as provided below, payment of the Normal Retirement Pension shall commence on the Normal Retirement Date.
6.02	Early Retirement Date
A Member who has attained age 55 but not age 65 may elect to retire on the first day of any month thereafter, and commence to receive his pension on such date or on the first day of any subsequent month up to his Normal Retirement Date. Such date of pension commencement shall be the Member’s Early Retirement Date.
6.03
Late Retirement Date
A Member who continues in the service of the Company after the Normal Retirement Date shall commence his pension on the earlier of the end of the year in which the Member attains age 71 and the Member’s Late Retirement Date, which shall be the first day of the month following the month in which the Member retires.
6.04	Retirement Benefit
(a) Upon retirement a Member shall receive such life annuity as can be purchased with the balance of his Money Purchase Account. The annuity shall be purchased from an insurance company licensed to sell annuities in Canada and shall be determined on a basis that does not discriminate as to sex.
(5) From time to time, the Company may offer an enhanced pension benefit under the Plan in the form of a defined benefit pension. If a Member is entitled to such enhanced pension benefit, the Member’s Money Purchase Account will be applied toward the cost of the benefit.
6.05	Alternative Benefit
In lieu of receiving a life annuity pursuant to subsection 6.04, a Member may elect to transfer the balance of his Money Purchase Account to another registered vehicle in accordance with subsection 8.04.
The Retirement Benefit Plan Defined Contribution Provisions
Effective October 1, 1992
Page 10
SECTION VII • OPTIONAL FORMS OF PENSION
7.01	Normal Form of Pension for Members Without a Spouse
The normal form of pension payable to a Member who does not have a Spouse or who is living separate and apart from his Spouse at the date of commencement of pension payments shall be a monthly pension payable for life only. Such Member may instead elect an optional form of pension in accordance with this Section 7.
7.02	Normal Form of Pension for Members with a Spouse
1(a)	In the case of a Member who has a Spouse at the time of pension
commencement, and the Member and his Spouse are not living separate and apart on that date, the normal form of pension payable shall be a joint and survivor pension under which the Member will receive a pension payable in monthly instalments for life with 60% of such pension amount continuing after the Member’s death to the surviving Spouse for life, provided it is the same Spouse as at the time of pension commencement.
(b)	If the Member has a Spouse, the Member and his Spouse may elect to waive the joint and survivor form of pension if either:
(i)	within the 12-month period prior to the date of commencement of pension payments, the Administrator, in accordance with any applicable legislation and the regulations thereunder, receives a written waiver of the joint and survivor pension in the prescribed form signed by both the Member and the Spouse of the Member, or a certified copy of a domestic contract, as defined in the Family Law Act (Ontario), containing the waiver, and such waiver is not subsequently revoked prior to the commencement of the pension, or
(ii)
the Member’s Spouse has received or is entitled to receive a portion of the value of the Member’s benefits under the Plan in accordance with subsection 11.08.
7.03	Availability of Optional Form
Subject to the terms of and in accordance with the Act and the Tax Act, in lieu of the normal form of pension payable according to either subsection 7.01 or 7.02, a
The Retirement Benefit Plan Defined Contribution Provisions
Effective October 1, 1992	Page 11
Member may elect, not less than 30 days prior to pension commencement, to receive his pension benefit in one of the optional forms of pension described in subsection
7.04	provided that such optional form is offered by an insurance company licensed to sell annuities.
Where a joint and survivor pension is required pursuant to subsection 7.02, the Spouse’s written consent and waiver will be required only for the election of any optional form of pension which would result in a pension payable to the Spouse upon the Member’s death of less than 60% of the Member’s pension prior to death.
7.04	Optional Forms
The optional forms of pension permitted under the Plan are:
(a)	A pension payable until the death of the Member with a guarantee that after the death of the Member either 75% or 100% of the pension will be payable to the Member’s Spouse for life, provided it is the same Spouse as at the time of pension commencement.
(b)	Subject to subsection 7.05, a single life pension of any other form permitted under the Act and the Tax Act.
7.05	Guarantee Period
An optional form of pension may not be elected which would provide for payments to be made for a guarantee period which exceeds 180 months.
7.06	Rescinding the Election
Subject to any administrative restrictions imposed by the insurance company from which an annuity has been purchased, if any, the election of an optional form of pension may be rescinded at any time before pension payments are due to commence but may not be rescinded after the commencement of pension payments.
The Retirement Benefit Plan Defined Contribution Provisions
Effective October 1, 1992
Page 12
SECTION VIII . TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT
8.01
Application
This Section applies only to attaining age 55.
/3t//
members who terminate their employment before
8.02	Deferred Annuity
On termination of employment, a Member shall be entitled to a deferred annuity commencing at Normal Retirement Date or alternatively, to an annuity commencing at the beginning of any month within the ten years preceding Normal Retirement Date.
8.03	Amount of Annuity
The amount of the annuity specified in subsection 8.02 shall be the amount that can be purchased with the balance of the Member’s Money Purchase Account. The annuity must be purchased from an insurance company licensed to sell annuities in Canada and shall be determined on a basis that does not discriminate as to sex.
8.04	Transfer of Money Purchase Account
In lieu of the deferred annuity payable under the preceding subsections, a Member may elect to transfer the balance in his Money Purchase Account to:
(a)	such other tax-exempt trust or registered pension plan as he may designate, if such other plan accepts the transfer, or
(b)	a locked-in registered retirement savings plan,
provided that any such transfer must satisfy the restrictions set out in Section 147.3 cf the TcK Act and any requirements prescribed by the Act. The transferee can accept the transferred amount only on the condition that any applicable laws and regulations governing locked-in benefits will be observed.
8.05	Cash Payments
In lieu of a transfer of funds pursuant to subsection 8.04, a Member who terminates employment may elect to receive the portion of his pension benefits that are not locked-in, as determined under subsection 11.06, in the form of a cash lump sum payment, in which case the appropriate amount of tax will be withheld.
The Retirement Benefit Plan Defined Contribution Provisions
Effective October 1, 1992	Page 13
8.06	No Further Entitlements
If an annuity has been purchased pursuant to subsection 8.03 or the former Member’s entitlements have been transferred out of the Plan pursuant to subsection
8.04	or 8.05, the former Member shall retain no further rights or entitlements under the Plan.
The Retirement Benefit Plan
Defined Contribution Provisions
Effective October 1, 1992
Page 14
SECTION IX • DEATH BENEFITS
9.01	Amount of Benefits on Death Before Pension Commencement
If a Member dies before commencement of his pension benefits, and if the Member had not previously transferred out his entitlements under the Plan pursuant to Section 8, a death benefit will be payable equal to the Member’s Money Purchase Account balance.
9.02	Beneficiary Designation
Subject to subsection 9.03 a Member may designate a beneficiary to receive, after his death, any benefits due under the Plan. A Member may alter or revoke such designation, within the limits set by law, by notification in writing to the Administrator, or by will. If a beneficiary has not been designated or if the designated beneficiary predeceases the Member, any payments due under the Plan will be made to the Member’s estate.
9.03	Spouse as Deemed Beneficiary
Should a Member be survived by a Spouse, the Spouse shall be the beneficiary of any death benefits, regardless of any other beneficiary designation made by the Member, unless the Member and his Spouse were living separate and apart at the time of the Member’s death or the Member and his Spouse have waived the Spouse’s entitlement in the prescribed form and manner.
9.04	Settlement Options on Death Before Pension Commencement
If, on the death before pension commencement of a Member, the beneficiary of benefits is the Spouse, the Spouse may elect to have the death benefit:
(a) applied to purchase an immediate or deferred annuity from a life insurance company, the guarantee period of which cannot exceed 15 years, or
(b)
paid out in cash in a lump sum, in which case the appropriate amount of tax will be withheld,
provided that the death benefit payable to the Spouse shall be payable beginning no later than on the later of the day which is one year after the day of death of the Member and the end of the calender year in which the Spouse attains 71 years of age.
The Retirement Benefit Plan Defined Contribution Provisions
Effective October 1, 1992
Page 15
Such Spouse must elect the form of settlement within 90 days following receipt of such information as is prescribed by the Act. In the absence of any election, the Spouse shall be deemed to have elected to receive an immediate pension.
Where the beneficiary is not the Spouse, the death benefit will be paid in a lump sum to the designated beneficiary or the Member’s estate, as applicable.
9.05	Post-Retirement Death Benefit
In the event of the death of a Member after his pension payments have commenced, survivor benefits, if any, shall be paid in accordance with the form of pension elected pursuant to Section 7.
The Retirement Benefit Plan Defined Contribution Provisions
Effective October 1, 1992
Page 16
SECTION X ■ LEAVES OF ABSENCE
10.01	Authorized absence
If a Member is temporarily absent from active duty by reason of
(a)	authorized leave of absence with or without pay, including pregnancy and parental leave,
(b)	absence due to sickness or injury during which the Member is receiving short term sickness and accident benefits from a Company-sponsored plan or Workers’ Compensation benefits, or
(c)	layoff,
the contributions being made by the Company on his behalf pursuant to subsection
5.01	shall continue during the period of absence for a period of up to two years except as provided otherwise in subsection 10.02.
10.02 Lone Term Disability
If a Member incurs a long term disability due to bodily injury or disease, other than disability which:
(a)	was contracted, suffered, or incurred while the Employee was engaged in, or resulted from his having engaged in, a criminal enterprise; or
(b)	can be established as being caused by service in the armed forces of any country,
and which results in the Member becoming eligible to receive disability income benefits from the Canada or Quebec Pension Plan, then Company contributions on the Member’s behalf pursuant to subsection 5.01 shall cease when benefits pursuant to paragraph 10.01(b) cease or, if earlier, after two years of absence.
10.03	Suspension of Contributions
A Member who is absent pursuant to subsections 10.01 or 10.02 may suspend any optional contributions being made by him pursuant to subsection 5.02.
The Retirement Benefit Plan Defined Contribution Provisions
Effective October 1, 1992
Page 17
10.04	Pension Adjustment
For the purposes of calculating the pension adjustment for a Plan Year for a Member the compensation of the Member for such Plan Year shall include amounts prescribed under Section 8507 of the Tax Act.
The Retirement Benefit Plan
Defined Contribution Provisions
Effective October 1, 1992
Page 18
SECTION XI - ADMINISTRATION
11.01
Administration of the Plan
Except as otherwise expressly set out herein, the Company shall decide all matters in respect of the operation, administration and interpretation of the Plan. The Administrator shall administer the Plan in accordance with the decisions of the Company, the terms set out herein, the Act and the Tax Act.
11.02 Funding of Benefits
Pensions payable under the Plan on account of retirement or termination of service may be secured by the purchase of a life annuity policy or policies from any insurance company licensed to transact annuity business in Canada.
■0
>-
11.03	Explanation to Members
The Administrator shall provide to each Member a written explanation of the terms and conditions of the Plan and, if required pursuant to the Act, of any subsequent amendments thereto, together with an explanation of the rights and duties of the Member with reference to the benefits available to him under the terms of the Plan and such other information as may be prescribed by the Act.
Such further information, as prescribed by the Act, shall be provided or made available by the Administrator to a Member or to any other person entitled to a benefit under the Plan or to the agent of such Member or person or to the personal representative of the estate of such Member or person, if and as prescribed by the Act.
Any explanatory materials, apart from the Plan text and the Funding Agreement, in the form prepared by the Company, shall have no effect on the rights or obligations of any Member, and shall not be referred to by the Administrator in interpreting or giving effect to the provisions of the Plan. Neither the Administrator nor the Company shall be liable for any loss or damage claimed by any person to have been caused by any error or omission in such explanation, statement or other information.
11.04	Evidence of Age
Each Member, before payment of his pension commences, will be required to furnish to the Administrator evidence of his age and the age of his Spouse who may become entitled to pension payments under the Plan. Payment of benefits hereunder shall
The Retirement Benefit Plan Defined Contribution Provisions
Effective October 1, 1992
Page 19
not be made until the person entitled to the payment of the benefits delivers to the Administrator, such information as may be required to calculate, pay or continue payment of the benefit. Should the commencement of pension payments be delayed due to late receipt of such evidence, payments will be made retroactive to the date on which payments were due to commence.
11.05	Assignment
Except as required by law or permitted by any applicable legislation, no right of a person under the Plan is capable of being assigned, charged, anticipated, given as security or surrendered.
For the purposes of the Tax Act Assignment does not include:
(a)	assignment pursuant to a decree, order or judgment of a competent tribunal or a written agreement in settlement of rights arising out of a marriage or other conjugal relationship between a Member and his Spouse or former Spouse, on or after the breakdown of their marriage
or other conjugal relationship, or
(b)	assignment by the legal representative of a deceased individual on the distribution of the individual’s estate.
11.06	Benefits Non-Commutable
The benefits in respect of a Member under the terms of the Plan accrue on a locked-in basis and are incapable of being surrendered or commuted during the lifetime of the Member except as set out below.
If the annual pension determined to be payable to a Member at his Normal Retirement Date is determined to be not more than 2 per cent of the Year’s Maximum Pensionable Earnings under the Canada Pension Plan in the year that the Member terminates employment, the amount accrued in the Member’s Money Purchase Account may be paid out to the Member in a lump sum.
11.07	Expenses
The reasonable expenses incurred in the administration of the Plan shall be paid from the Plan funds unless paid directly by the Company.
The Retirement Benefit Plan Defined Contribution Provisions
Effective October 1, 1992	Page 20
11.08	Marriage Breakdown
Notwithstanding subsection 11.05, an entitlement to receive a benefit under the Plan is subject to entitlements arising under a domestic contract as defined in the Family Law Act (Ontario) or under an Order as defined under the Family Law Act (Ontario). Consequently, part of the value of the benefits under the Plan may be transferred to a person other than the Member. At least 50% of the value of the benefit earned during the period the Member and the other person were Spouses (regardless of whether the Member and his Spouse were living separate and apart during any part of such period) must remain payable to the Member.
11.09	Discrimination by Sex
The sex of a Member or that person’s beneficiary, as applicable, will not be taken into consideration in the determination of the amount of any benefit to which such individual becomes entitled under the Plan.
11.10	Liability
Benefits under the Plan shall be payable only from the Pension Fund and only to the extent that there are assets in the Pension Fund. The Company shall have no obligation to make or continue to make from its own funds, the payment of any benefits under the Plan.
The Company shall indemnify its officers, directors and employees and the officers, directors and employees of the Administrator against any and all claims, losses, damages, expenses, and liabilities arising from any act or failure to act in respect of the Plan or the Pension Fund, except for any act or any failure resulting from the gross negligence or wilful misconduct of such person. The Company may direct that the cost of indemnifying officers, directors, employees, agents and contractors of the Company or the Administrator in relation to management, administration or operation of the Plan or the Pension Fund be paid from the Pension Fund.
11.11	Severability
The provisions of the Plan shall be construed as a whole in such manner to carry out the purposes of the Plan as set out herein and to provide to, or in respect of, the Members, the benefits specifically defined herein. If any provision of the Plan is found to be invalid or unenforceable, in whole or in part, by a court of competent jurisdiction, the Plan shall be enforced and construed to the extent possible without regard to that portion of the provision to be invalid or unenforceable.
(a)
(b)
The Retirement Benefit Plan
Defined Contribution Provisions
Effective October I, 1992
Page 21
11.12	Construction
The Plan, and the rights hereunder, will be governed, construed, and administered in accordance with the laws of the Province of Ontario and any administrative practice adopted from time to time by the pension authority in such province.
11.13	Conformity with Legislation
In the event that any provision of the Plan is less favourable to a Member than is required by the terms of any applicable legislation, and until such time as the Plan is amended to comply with the terms of such legislation, the Plan shall be administered as if such provision conformed with the terms of the applicable legislation to the extent necessary to remedy the deficiency.
11.14	Captions and Headings
The captions, headings and table of contents of this Plan are included for convenience of reference only and shall not be used in interpreting the provisions of the Plan.
The Retirement Benefit Plan
Defined Contribution Provisions
Effective October 1, 1992
Page 22
SECTION XII - TERMINATION AND AMENDMENT
12.01	Continuation of the Plan
(a) The Company expects the Plan to continue indefinitely, and every effort has been made to establish the Plan so that it will meet future conditions insofar as they can be foreseen. In order to protect Members and the Company against unforeseen conditions, however, the right to amend the Plan pursuant to paragraphs 12.01(b) and 12.01(c) or to terminate the Plan, either in whole or in part, is necessarily reserved by the Company.
The Administrator shall promptly submit the Plan, and any subsequent amendments thereto, for continued registration by Revenue Canada and the Pension Commission of Ontario. The Company will make any modifications, alterations or amendments to this Plan necessary to obtain and retain such approval as is required in order to establish the qualified status of the Plan under applicable legislation and the deductibility for income tax purposes of Company contributions to the Pension Fund.
The Administrator shall submit, or cause to be submitted, to the relevant regulatory authorities any periodic reports which may be required by law.
12.02	Amendment to the Plan
The Plan may not be amended to adversely affect the rights of a Member or any other person entitled to benefits under the Plan prior to the date of amendment, nor can the amounts accrued in the Members’ Money Purchase Accounts be reduced. Immediate replacement of the Plan by another registered pension plan shall be considered an amendment to the Plan.
The Retirement Benefit Plan Defined Contribution Provisions
Effective October 1, 1992	Page 23
12.03	Effect of Collective Agreement
(a) This Plan shall continue in full force and effect until the expiration of the Collective Agreement, and thereafter unless either the Company or the Union serves upon the other a written notice of desire to negotiate with respect to a modification of the Plan. No such notice shall be given earlier than 60 days prior to the expiration of said period. At any time during such negotiations, either party may serve upon the other a written notice of desire to terminate, in which event this Plan shall terminate within 60 days after such termination notice has been served.
Except as specifically provided in subsection 12.01, neither the Company nor the Union for the duration of the Collective Agreement shall demand any change in the Plan, nor shall either be requested to bargain with respect to any change in the Plan, nor shall any modification, alteration or amendment of the Plan be an objective of or reason for any strike or lockout, or other exercise of economic force or threat by the Union or the Company.
Termination of the Collective Agreement shall not have the effect of automatically terminating the Plan. In the event of termination of the Collective Agreement, unless an immediately subsequent agreement is substituted therefor, the Company may continue, amend, modify or terminate the Plan provided, however, that any such action shall not operate to adversely affect any benefits otherwise earned by Members to the extent the assets of the Pension Fund are sufficient to provide such benefits at the time of such action.
12.04
Termination of the Plan
(a) In the event of termination of the Plan, all assets of the Plan will be allocated to Members of the Plan to provide pension and other benefits according to their entitlements under the terms of the Plan. Such allocations will be made in accordance with the Act and the Tax Act.
Any assets remaining at the date of Plan termination in excess of any amount required as set out above will be applied to provide additional benefits for Members and any other beneficiaries on an equitable and non-discriminatory basis, provided that the total benefit to be provided in respect of any person shall not exceed the maximum benefits permitted under the Tax Act.
The Retirement Benefit Plan Defined Contribution Provisions
Effective October 1, 1992
Page 24
If, after providing for such additional annuity, there are any Plan funds remaining, then such funds will be returned to the Company. The Company shall then immediately distribute such funds to all Members and other beneficiaries in proportion to their entitlements upon the Plan termination.
(d)
Settlement to a Member will be made in accordance with and in the manner prescribed by the Act and the Tax Act.
(e) Upon termination of the Plan, a Member may elect to transfer the balance of his Money Purchase Account to:
such other tax-exempt trust or pension plan as he may designate, provided that such other plan accepts the transfer,
(ii)	a registered retirement savings plan, or
(iii)	another insurer for the purchase of a deferred life annuity,
provided that any such transfer must satisfy the restrictions set out in Section
147.3	of the Tax Act and any requirements prescribed by the Act; and further provided that the plan or the insurer, as the case may be, to which any such amounts are transferred, must guarantee to administer such transferred amounts in accordance with any applicable legislation.
The Retirement Benefit Plan Defined Contribution Provisions
Effective October 1, 1992
Page 25
IN WITNESS WHEREOF each of the parties hereto has caused this Retirement Benefit
Plan to be signed the J??4lay of Jt____________, 199^ by its authorized representatives as
of the day and year first above written.
The Retirement Benefit Plan
Defined Contribution Provisions
Effective October 1, 1992
Page 26