c i
COLLECTIVE LABOUR AGREEMENT
between
STANDARD PRODUCTS (CANADA) LIMITED
and
THE CANADIAN BROTHERHOOD OF RAILWAY, TRANSPORT AND GENERAL WORKERS, LOCAL 451
AFFILIATED WITH THE C.L.C. AND THE INTERNATIONAL TRANSPORT WORKERS
(PLANTS No. 1 and 2)
Dated October 1,1992 Expires September30,1995
INDEX
A
AGREEMENT	SECTION	PAGE
Amendment of	17.01	43
Duration of	17.02	43
Purpose	1.01	II
ARBITRATION	6.01	18
	6.02	18
	6.03	19
BARGAINING UNIT Definition of Exclusion from Committee BULLETIN BOARD BEREAVEMENT PAY
B
2.01	(a) (b)
2.01	(a) (b)
4.01	(a) (b)
14.01 11.07
11-12
11-12
14-15
39
33
CALL IN PAY Reporting Pay CHANGE IN ADDRESS CHECK OFF Union Dues Amount of Dues COMMITTEES for Plants for bargaining
c
11.06 11.05 8.05
2.04
2.05
4.01	(a)
4.01	(b)
33
32
22
12
12
14
15
1
grievances her matters COST OF LIVING Fold in of C.O.L.A
SECTION	PACE
4.07	15
4.08	16
11.12	35
11.12 (a)	35
DEMOTION
DISCHARGE
DISCIPLINE
DRUG PLAN DENTAL PLAN
D
3.01	(b)
3.01	(b)
3.01	(b)
3.02
Schedule 1-4 Schedule 1-6
13
13
13
14
44
45
E
EARNINGS
Incentives	3.01	(e)
	11.11	(a)
	Schedule	4
EXPERIMENTAL WORK	11.04	(a)
EMPLOYEE COMPLAINT	2.06	
	5.01	
EMPLOYEE RIGHTS	2.07	
EMPLOYEE TRAINING	14.04	(a)
13
35
67
32
12
16
12
40
F
10.09
31
2
FOREMEN WORKING
SECTION
G
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE	5.01	
Complaints	5.01	Step 1
Written Grievance	5.01	Step 2
Meeting with Company	5.01	Step 3
Company can decline	5.02	
Discharge - Suspension	5.03	
Company Grievance	5.04	
Union Grievance	5.05	
GUARANTEE OF WORK	10.05	
PAGE
16
16
16
17
17
17
18 18 30
H
HIRING RIGHT OF COMPANY HOLIDAYS Amount of Pay To Qualify Hours of Holiday Pay if Worked Falls on Saturday or Sunday Fails during Vacation Dominion Day Paid Personal-Days HOSPITAL COVERAGE HOURS OF WORK Shift Work
Guarantee of Hours Starting Time
3.01	(b)
12.01	(a)
12.01	(b)
12.03	(a) (b)
12.02	(a) (b)
12.02	(a) (b)
12.05
12.04
12.05
12.06
Schedule 1-3 10.01
3.01	(c)
10.02
10.05 10.01 10.02
13
36
36
37 36
36
37 37
37
38 44 27 13 27 30 27 27
3
SECTION
PAGE
I
n WOVE PAY PLAN
Time Study of Incentive Jobs Type of Plan Incentive Standard Effect of Other Pay Policies
Base Kate Guaranteed Incentive Earnings Paid by Job Payment When Not on Incentive
Development of Incentive Standard
Initallation of Standard Change in Standard5 Substitute and Added Operations Temporary Incentive Standard INCENTIVE
Subject to Grievance Group Incentive Payment Codes Dispute
INJURY (Plant)
Pay Allowance Seniority
INVENTORY PAY
3.01 (e)
11.11	(b)
11.11	(b) Schedule 4-1 Schedule 4-2
Schedule 4-3 Schedule 4-4
Schedule 4-5
Schedule 4-6
Schedule 4-7 Schedule 4-8 Schedule 4-9
Schedule 4-10
Schedule 4-11
Schedule 4-12 Schedule 4-13 Schedule 4-14 Schedule 4-15
11.03 9.05
11.04	(b)
4
W N) w	--J	On On O' On On O' w w —
JC OSTING
Selection or Rejection JURY DUTY
SECTION
J
8.08
8.08 (g)
11.08 (a) (b)
L
LAY OFF
From Pool	8.07	(c)
From Occupational Group	8.07	(a) (b)
From One Shift	8.07	(d)
After 4 hours work	8.06	(c) (3)
Benefit Coverage LEAVE OF ABSENCE	Schedule	1-7
Sickness
Other than Illness Pregnancy Death in Family Jury Duty Union Business Status on Return LUNCH (Paid) LIFE INSURANCE LOCK OUT
9.01
9.02
9.06
11.08
11.09
9.03
9.05
10.10
Schedule 1 -2 (a) (b)
7.01
M
MANAGEMENT RIGHTS MEETINGS Grievances
Discharge - Suspension Other Matters
3.01
5.01	Step 3 5.03
4.08
5
PAGE
24
25 34
23
23
23
23
50
26
26
26
33
34 26 26 31 44 19
13
17
17
16
ME' 'AL, COVERAGE Examination
SECTION
Schedule 13.04
3
PAGE
44
14
O
OCCUPATIONAL GROUPS	3.01 (d)	13
OVERTIME		
Hours and Pay	10.03	28
24 Hour Day	10.07	31
Shall Work	10.04	28
PAY PERIOD PENSION PLAN PAY RATES
IS reported as scheduled IS late
If called back if shift is changed If transferred
PROBATIONARY PERIOD New Employee Occupational Group If Plant Closes
P
10.08
Schedule 1-5 11.11 11.06
11.05 11.07
10.06
11.10 (a) (b)
8.01	(a) (b) (c) 8.06 (a) (b) (c)
8.02
31
44
35
33
32
33 30
34
19
22
20
R
RECALL FROM LAYOFF	8.09
RECOGNITION
By Company	2.01
2.02
25
12
6
	SECTION	PAGE
B'' Union	3.01	13
RE _AR WORK DAY	10.01	27
Shift Work	10.02	27
REST PERIODS	11.01 (a) (b)	32
REPRIMANDS	3.03	14
RETIREMENT AGREEMENT		73
RULES	3.02	14
	Schedule 5	98
SENIORITY Pool Help
Movement of Pool Occupational Groups One shift to another After 4 hours Seniority Loss Seniority Lists Shut down one Plant
SICK BENEFIT
STRIKES
SAFETY
SHIFT PREMIUM STEWARDS
Amount of Service Two or More Status
s
8.01	(a) (b) (c)	19
8.07	(c)	23
8.06	(c) (2)
8.07	(a)(b) (0
8.07	(d)
8.06	(c) (3) 8.04
8.03
2.07 8.02
Schedule 1-1 7.01
3.04
14.02
11.02
4.02
4.03
4.04
4.05
23
23-24
23
23
21
20
12
20
43
19
14 40 32
15 15 15 15
7
SECTION
T
TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE 14.04 TRANSFERS
In Pool	8.06	(c) (2)
	8.07	(c)
One group to another	8,07	(a) (b) (0
Unforeseen happening	8,07	(e)
By seniority	1.09	(a) (b)
Out of seniority	1.09	(c)
One shift to another	8.07	(d)
Shift change during week	0.09	
One Plant to another	8.02	
Out of bargaining unit	8.04	(g)
PAGE
40
23
23
23-24
23
34
34
23
34
20
21
UNION
Recognition
Membership
Dues
President (rights) Bulletin board
u
2.01 (a) (b) •2.02
2.03
2.04
2.05
4.06	(a) (b) 14.01
11-12
12
12
12
12
15
39
V
VACATION
30 years of service 25 years of service 20 years of service 15 to 20 years of service
13.01	(a)	38
13.01	(b)	38
13.02	38
13.03	39
8
'	15 years of service
5 u 10 years of service less than 5 years service VISION CARE
SECTION
13.04
13.05
13.06
Schedule 1-8
PAGE
39
39
39
SO
WAGE RATES Plant Number 1 July 4, 1992 Plant Number I October 1, 1993 Plant Number 1 October 1, 1994 Plant Number 2 July 4, 1992 Plant Number 2 October 1, 1993 Plant Number 2 October 1, 1994 WASHUP
WEARING APPAREL WELFARE BENEFITS
w
Schedule 2A Schedule 2B Schedule 2C Schedule 3 A Schedule 3B
Schedule 3C
11.01	(a)
14.02
14.03
53
55
58
60
62
65
32
40
40
9
Memorandum of
COLLECTIVE LABOUR AGREEMENT
entered into
as of the I st day of October, 1992 BETWEEN:
STANDARD PRODUCTS (CANADA) LIMITED
A company incorporated under the laws of the Province of Ontario, with Head Office at the City of Stratford, hereinafter called the “COMPANY”
— and —
THE CANADIAN BROTHERHOOD OF RAILWAY, TRANSPORT AND GENERAL WORKERS, LOCAL 451
affiliated with the CLC aiid The International Transport Workers
Witnesseth that the Company and the Union agree as follows:
ARTICLE I — PURPOSE
1.01	The general purpose of this agreement is to establish mutually satisfactory relations between the Company and its employees, and to provide machinery for the prompt and equitable disposition of grievances, and to establish and maintain satisfactory working conditions, hours aiid wages for all employees who arc subject to the provisions of this agreement, keeping in mind at all times that the welfare aiid prosperity of the employees arc contingent upon the Company’s ability to successfully compete in the trade aiid in the sale of its products.
ARTICLE II — RECOGNITION AND SCOPE
2.01	(a) The Company recognizes the Union as the exclu-
sive bargaining agent for the bargaining unit composed of all employees of the Company in its Plant #1, 1030 Erie Street and its Plant #2, 703 Douro Street, in the City of Stratford, Ontario, save and except foremen, persons above the rank of foremen, timekeepers and time clerks, office and sales staff and plant guards.
II
(h) The said plants, while they arc in operation, shall be ed as separate divisions for the purposes of this agreement and the employees in each division shall have separate plant committees and separate seniorities and senority lists but both divisions shall have a single grievance committee, as hereinafter provided.
2.02	Wherever the word employee or the word employees is used throughout this agreement it shall mean the employee pr employees within the respective divisions (hereinafter sometimes referred to as the divisions or division) as provided in Sections 2.01 (a)and(b).
2.03	As it condition of employment, any employee hired or transferred into a division shall become a member of the Union riot later than 30 days following his hire or transfer into that division and shall maintain membership in the Union as a condition of continued employment. During the orientation process, the new employee will be introduced to his or her Union steward.
2.04	The Company will deduct from all employees within the bargaining unit the authorized union dues and joining fee from the first pay received in each month following the 30 days referred to in section 2.03 and remit the same to the Union prior to the 15th day of the month following the month in which the deduction is made.
2.05	The Union shall promptly advise the Company of any change in the amount of the union dues andjoining fee.
2.06	Any employee may take up any personal matter directly with the Company at any time.
2.07	in the event that the Company moves or transfers a portion of the production and equipment at Plants I and 2 in Stratford to a new factory'owned or leased or operated by it, then in that event, the Company will give the Union notice of such a move or transfer as far in advance as practicable and will meet with the Union for the purpose of working out a transfer or production agreement covering employees laid off as a result of such move or transfer, provided always however, that there is no collective agreement to which the Company is a party or is bound by reason of the provisions of the Labour Relations Act or amendments thereto, covering a bargaining
12
unit at the new factory. In the event there is a collective agree-mc overing a bargaining unit at the new factory, employees laid -uf as a result of the move or transfer shall, subject to said collective agreement, be offered the opportunity to transfer with their jobs.
ARTICLE III — MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
3.01	The Union acknowledges that it is the exclusive function of the Company to:
(a)	Maintain order, discipline arid efficiency.
(b)	Hire, discharge, transfer, promote, demote or discipline employees and determine employee’s qualifications and qualifications needed for ajob, provided that a claim of unfair supervision, promotion, demotion, transfer, determination of employee's qualifications, or qualifications needed for a job, or a claim that an employee has been discharged or disciplined without just cause may be the subject of a grievance and dealt with as hereinafter provided.
(c)	The Union further acknowledges the right of the Company to operate and manage its business in all respects in accordance with its commitments and responsibilities. Except as may be restricted by this agreement, the Company retains all rights, functions and prerogatives, including, but not limited, to, the location of the plants, the direction of the working forces, the products to be manufactured, and the materials used in manufacturing and their sources, the schedules of production, the methods, processes and means of manufacturing used, the right to decide on the number of employees needed by the Company at any time, the rights to use improved methods, machinery and equipment and jurisdiction over all operations, buildings, machinery, tools and employees in its plants.
(d)	Establish occupational groups and to discontinue, restrict or expand the same.
(e)	To establish an incentive pay plan for jobs throughout its plants and by agreement between the parties hereto to alter, modify, amend and discontinue the same from time to time.
13
3.CT M is recognized that good discipline must be maintained. It i; .reed, therefore, that the Company shall have the right without hindrance, other than by grievance procedure, to discipline employees who violate any provisions of this agreement or,any company rules, examples of which are set forth in schedule #5. The Company will discuss new rules and regulations or changes in existing rules and regulations with the Union prior to implementation.
3.03	Reprimand notations placed on an employee's record by his supervisor are to be signed by the employee concerned and his steward, or, in the steward's absence or failure to act, by a member of the plant committee of the plant in which the employee works. If the employee has any question he cannot clear up with his supervisor, or feels the reprimand is not in order, he will have five working days in which to file a grievance, which will then be handled in the established grievance procedure. If the employee's grievance is upheld, the notation will be removed from his record.
It' an employee has had a reprimand notation placed on his record and has since the date of that placement been employed for a period of 12 months without having further reprimand notation placed cn his record, it is understood that said reprimand or any prior reprimands shall not be used against him, except for the purpose of illustration at arbitration.
3.04	It is recognized that the Company is interested in the health of the employees both from the standpoint of the employee's personal safety and from the standpoint of efficiency. Therefore, the Company will have the right from time to time to ask employees, who shall comply, to take medical examinations from a Company doctor and may also ask a doctor or nurse to visit employees' homes during an illness.
ARTICLE IV — NEGOTIATING AND GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
4,01	(a) The employees will select a seven (7) person com-
mittee, ail of whom shall have had one year's service with the company.
14
(b) The seven (7)members selectedas in the next pre-
ce< section provided, shall constitute a bargaining committee .or the purpose of negotiating with the Company, with respect to proposed amendments to this agreement, notice of which shall have been given pursuant to article XV.
4.02	Each plant committee, as mentioned in section 4.01 may appoint a steward on any shift in any production area under the supervision of a foreman where there is no coininitteeman employed.
4.03	Any employee appointed as a steward shall have had six months service with the Company. The Company shall be notified forthwith of any such appointment. The appointment shall forthwith be rescinded at any time when there is a committeeman employed in the same production area on the sanie shift as the steward.
4.04	In the event that two or more committeemen are employed in one production area on the sanie shift, the committee shall forthwith designate to the Company one committeeman in that production area who shall alone be entitled to handle grievances arising in such production area pursuant to the procedure hereinafter provided.
4.05	A steward during his term of office shall be deemed to be a committee member within the meaning of section 5.01 to
5.03	inclusive.
4.06	(a) The President of the Union, being employed in the division m one plant may request permitted leave, which shall not be unreasonably withheld, to investigate the circumstances of a grievance which has been processed through Step 1 of the grievance procedure in the division in the other plant. The permitted leave shall only be long enough to make a reasonable investigation.
(b)	In the event that the President of the Union deems it necessary to convene a special or emergency meeting during his working day he shall be given the necessary time off to attend same. It is understood that the President shall give the Company as much notice of such meeting as is practical.
4.07	The Company also recognizes a grievance committee which shall be composed of the President and the Vice-
15
President of the Union and one representative from each piani corr ee mentioned in 4.01(a) or a steward appointed under sectn . 4.02.
An official representative of the Canadian Brotherhood of Railway. Transport and General Workers may attend any meeting held between the Company and the said committee if his presence is requested by the committee or the Company.
4.08	If a meeting is requested by the Union to discuss matters of general interest other than grievances with the Company, upon the presentation of an agenda therefore, agrees, the meeting shall be held at a time and place mutually agreed upon between the representatives of the Company and the prievancc committee composed of persons as provided in section 4,07.
ARTICLE V — GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
5.01	It is the mutual desire of the parties hereto that complaints of employees be adjusted as quickly as possible and it is understood that an employee hai no grievance until he and his area grievance committeeperson or local chairperson have given his foreman an opportunity to adjust his complaint.
Step I:
The Employee accompanied by his area grievance committeeperson or local chairperson shall discuss the complaint with the area supervisor within three working days of the complaint and the foreman shall have three working days from the date of being so informed to attempt to resolve the matter. If the complaint is not settled at this step, then the grievance may be processed under the provisions of Step 2,
Step 2:
Within three working days the Local Chairperson or his/her authorized committeeperson, may present this grievance in writing to the Plant Manager, or designate, who will give a written decision within three working days of receipt of grievance.
16
Step 3:
Within three working days of receiving decision under Stt, the Union shall request in writing, a meeting between Company and Grievance Committee, as provided foi in Section 4.07. Such meeting shall take place within nine (9) working days of such notification or such time as may be mutually agreed upon. If grievance is not settled at such time, the grievance may be referred to arbitration by the Union or the Company.
5.02	It shall be optional with the Company to decline to consider any grievance, the alleged circumstances of which originated or occurred more than five (5) working days prior to its presentation, provided however, that in the,case where an employee could not have become aware of the alleged circumstances within the said five (5) working days, the said period will commence to run from the lime when he did become aware of them.
5,03	(a) The following special procedure shall be applica-
ble to a grievance alleging improper discharge or suspension of an employee having seniority. He shall have the right to interview his committeeman or steward in a suitable place for a reasonable period of time before leaving the plant premises. The discharged or suspended employee shall present the grievance in writing, signed by him, to the Company management at any time within three normal working days next following the day on which the discharge or suspension takes place. The management will review the discharge or suspension with the discharged or suspended employee or with the discharged or suspended employee and the committee and render its decision in writing within three (3) normal working days after said review. The consideration of his grievance may include not only the merits of the case, but also what, if' any compensation shall be paid for the time lost in the event his reinstatement is agreed upon. The word “committee” as used in this paragraph shall mean the committee mentioned in section 4.07 ora quorum thereof.	'
5.03	(b) Written notification of all suspensions or dis-
missals (including employees on probation) will he issued to the employee as soon as it is practical to do so. A copy of this
17
notification will be given to the Union prior to the suspension or d; ~>issal where possible.
5.04	i is understood that the Company may bring forward at any meeting held or convened with the grievance committee, any complaint with respect to the conduct of the union or its members, including a claim for damages if the alleged circumstances of such complaint originated or occurred within two weeks of the holding or calling of the meeting. It is also understood that if such complaint is not settled, it may be treated as a grievance and referred to arbitration in the same way as the grievance of an employee.
5.05	A grievance by the Union may be initiated in writing at the second stage of the grievance procedure, provided the subject matter of the grievance is not such that it could be disposed of at the first stage of the grievance procedure on the grievance of an employee.
ARTICLE VI — ARBITRATION
6.01	In the event that no accord is reached through the procedure herein provided, the parties shall endeavour to agree upon an arbitrator to whom the grievance or grievances shall be referred for settlement. If no arbitrator is agreed upon the provision of the paragraph next following shall apply. If an arbitrator is agreed upon the costs and fees of the arbitrator shall be shared equally by the Union and the Company.
6.02	Where a difference arises between the parties relating to the interpretation, application or administration of this agreement, including any question as to whether a matter is arbitrable, or where tin allegation is made that this agreement has been violated, either of the parties may, after exhausting any grievance procedure established by this agreement, notify the other party in writing of its desire to submit the difference of allegation to arbitration and the notice shall contain the name of the first party's appointee to an arbitration board. The recipient of the notice shall, within five days, advise the other party of its appointee to the arbitration board. The two appointees so selected shall, within five days of the appointment of the second of them, appoint a third person who shall be the chairman. If the recipient of the notice fails to appoint an arbitrator, or if the two appointees fail to agree upon a chair-
18
man, within the time limit, the appointment shall be made by the Is' ;stcr of Labour for Ontario upon the request of either party, h arbitration board shall hear and determine the difference or allegation and shall issue a decision and the decision shall be final and binding upon the parties and upon any employee affected by it. The decision of a majority shall he the decision of the arbitration board, but if there is no majority the decision of the chairman shall govern. The Union and the Company shall each pay the fees and costs of their respective appointees and the Union and the Company shall equally share the fees and costs of the chairman.
6.03	The arbitrator or the arbitration board shall not be authorized to make any decision inconsistent with the provisions of this agreement, nor to alter, modify or amend any part of this agreement nor shall the arbitrator or the arbitration board have authority, to decide a dispute involving a question of a general wage level demand.
ARTICLE VII — STRIKES ANI) LOCKOUTS
7.01	There shall be no lockout, strike, sitdown, slowdown or stoppage of work either partial or complete over any matters during the term of this agreement.
ARTICLE VIII — SENIORITY
8.01	(a) An employee shall have no seniority rights or claim
to a job until he is entitled to have his name placed on a master seniority list and until that time shall be a probationary employee.
(b)	His name shall be placed on a master list as of the date of hiring after 45 working days of continuous employment within any period of 12 consecutive months.
(c)	The date of hiring of an employee placed on a master list after45 days of intermittent employment within any period of 12 consecutive months shall be considered to be the date 45 working days prior to the date which he completed his probationary period. Forty-five (45) working days shall mean 45 days on which the employee actually works.
19
8.02	In the event that the operations of (he Company in cither of the pla’ mentioned in Section 2.01(a) are discontinued, and as a consec, ce, the employees in a division mentioned in Section 2.01(b) arc released by the Company, then in that event, for a period of one year next following the said discontinuance, the Company shall, subject to Section 8.08, hire for work in the other plant the said released employees in the order of their seniority at the time of their said release to fill new job openings in the other plant and all former employees hired as aforesaid shall serve the following probationary periods:
(a)	For master seniority under Section 8.01 the probationary period shall be thirty (30) working days.
(b)	For occupational group seniority under Section 8.06, the probationary period shall be sixty (60) working days for maintenance or mechanical occupational groups, Quality Control, and Groups 33 and 39 in Plant 1, and forty (40) working days for all other occupational groups.
(c)	No probationary period shall be required to entitle the said former employees to benefits under Article XU, XIII and Schedule No. 1, and the benefits thereunder shall be granted as though the hiring date at the other plant were the same as the hiring date at the plant from which they were released.
(d)	An employee who accepts work in the other division as provided for in this Article, shall maintain master seniority only in the division moved from. Recall rights to the previous division will not be utilized by the employee unless an opening in the said division occurs. Seniority will not be transferable from plant to plant.
Seniority Lists
8.03	Seniority Lists for each division, copies of which shall be lodged with the Union and posted on the appropriate plant bulletin board at least twice a year, shall be prepared and maintained by the company as follows:
(a)	A master seniority list covering all employees in the division who have served their probationary period as provided in Section 8.01.
...(b) A seniority list for each occupational group in the division.
20
(c)	Additional master seniority lists covering all employees each division who have served the probationary period shall be. ,ed to the Union President.
8.04	All seniority rights of an employee shall cease where:
(a)	he voluntarily resigns.
(b)	he is discharged for just cause and such discharge is not reversed through the grievance procedure.
(c)	he is absent for three consecutive days for reasons other than illness or injury without having applied for and obtained a leave of absence for a definite period from the Company unless there is good reason acceptable to the Company provided for such failure to meet this time limit.
(d)	(1) he is absent for seven consecutive days due to illness or injury unless the Company is notified in writing of such condition by the employee or hrs agent within the said seven days, provided however, that such notification shall be deemed to have been given if the employee is incapacitated to the extent that he cannot notify the Company within the time and in the manner aforesaid.
(d)	(2) he is absent due to illness or injury and has notified the Company or has been deemed to have notified the Company, within the time and in the manner in the next preceding paragraph provided, but fails to report to work when medically approved for return to work.
(e)	he fails, after a lay-off to report for work within five days after notification that he should return shall have been delivered or mailed by registered mail to the last address given to the Company by the employee.
(f)	he has been on lay-off for three (3) years or more.
(g)	Any employee transferred or promoted out of the bargaining unit and returned back to the bargaining unit shall only accumulate the seniority acquired while in the bargaining unit. The employee returning to the bargaining unit will be permitted to replace the most junior employee in his former classification for a period of up to six (6) months, out of the bargaining unit, after such promotion, seniority permitting. After six (6) months out of the bargaining unit he will be permitted to replace the most junior employee in the bargaining unit only and will not maintain any group seniority.
21
The employee would maintain only master seniority if Iransf d back to the bargaining unit after six (6) months.
8.05	employees must notify the Personnel Department of the Company in writing cf any change of address and the Company shall acknowledge, in writing, receipt of any such notification. The Company may rely on the last address given to it in sending notices to the employees.
PROBATIONARY PERIOD (Occupational Groups)
8.06	(a)	(I) The trial or probationary period for all occupa-
tional groups, with the exception of maintenance, mechanical, Quality Control department and groups 33 and 39 (Plant 1), shall be forty (40) working days, and an employee must work in a nonmechanical occupational group for a trial period of up to forty (40) working days to acquire occupational group seniority. When his trial period is completed his name will be placed on the appropriate occupational group seniority list.
(a)	(2) The trial or probationary period for all mainte-
nance, mechanical. Quality Control Department, and Groups 33 and 39 (Plant 1). shall be sixty (60) working days and an employee must work in a maintenance, mechanical, Quality Control, and Groups 33 and 39 (Plant 1), for a trial period of up to sixty (60) working days to acquire occupational group seniority. When his trial period is completed his name will be placed on the appropriate occupational group seniority list.
(a)	(3) However, in certain circumstances and at the Company's discretion, the above stated probationary periods may be extended with the approval of the employee concerned and the Union,
(b)	An employee will not be deemed to have been doing work within an occupational group until he is entitled to have his name placed on the master seniority list.
(c)	When an employee has completed his trial period within an occupational group, he will be entitled lo have his occupational group seniority coincide with his master seniority.
(c)	(1) Employees while not working in an occupational
group will be described as working in the pool or as pool help.
22
(c)	(2) Pool employees will be moved by seniority
where ;t is practical to do so without interrupting production, it beint intention of this section that the junior employee be the one to take the move.
(c)	(3) In the event of a lay-off of an employee after
four hours of a shift have elapsed, seniority for the balance of the shift shall be exercisable by him, first on his or her job, second over probationary (no master seniority) employees if they are able to do the job, and thirdly, wherejobs are available, provided the employee can perform the jobs which are available.
8.07	Seniority rights of employees shall be exercised upon a lay-off as follows:
(a)	An employee working in an occupational group shall be entitled to seniority over an employee in that group having less seniority if able to do the different work required of him or them,
(b)	An employee laid off from an occupational group shall be entitled to seniority rights by reference to the master seniority list among pool help only if he is able to do the work required of him. The Company shall within three working days place such employee within another occupational group if he has seniority therein and if he is able to do the work required of him and lay off an employee from such latter group who in turn may exercise his seniority rights, if any, among pool help.
(c)	On the lay-off of an employee working in the pool, seniority shall be exercised among pool help only by reference to the master list, provided the employee with greater seniority is able to do the work required of him.
(<j) An employee laid off while working on one shift shall not be entitled to exercise his seniority rights upon another shift until after the lapse of one working day. exclusive of the day of lay-off. The Company may, however, permit the exercise of the said rights after the lapse of one working day.
(e)	in the event of the breakage of tools or the happening of unforeseen contingencies, the Company may temporarily transfer an employee for the remainder of the shift to work other than his usual work and in such event seniority rights shall not be exercised by an employee.
23
(f)	An employee when transferred to an occupational group '-')t pool) shall be deemed to be serving a trial period within suv oup for such number of days as may appear appropriate or necessary, provided however, that such employees shall not be considered to be serving a trial period after completing 40 working days (maintenance, mechanical, or Quality Control occupational groups and groups 33 and 39, 60 working days) within such group. He shall for such trial period retain his seniority, if any, within the group from which he was transferred.
(g)	If an employee gets laid off from a Group and subsequently bids on a job posting for another Group, their rights to the original job will be waived, except for lay off. The employee will however, be allowed to sign a job posting to get back to his or her old job if openings arise, and the four month waiting period will be waived.
(h)	Employees having the same seniority date shall be laid off and recalled by clock number order, or by occupational group where applicable.
8.08	(a) Permanent job openings in a division, shall be posted
in that division for a period of 48 hours.
(a)	(I) With respect to posting for pool jobs and group
#17 jobs, vacancies will be posted for a period of48 hours in these jobs with no accumulation of seniority. Employees bidding for pool jobs will serve, a trial period of 40 working days. In the case of layoffs, master seniority will still be maintained and the employees bidding for these jobs will have the right to sign off pooljobs (hey bid for.
(b; A selection under this section will be based on seniority providing the applicant has Ihe necessary qualifications and ability to satisfactorily perform the job. On permanent job postings, occupational group seniority will not be used as the first criteria in the selection process.
(c) A 2 step posting procedure shall be used, except for the following groups:
#7 — Foam Mixing #12 — Receiving, Shipping #13 — Material Handlers #14 — Inspector Quality Control Skilled Trades
24
#15 — Maintenance
#17 — Teaching and Repairs
#24 — Hybrid Adhesive, Prep, and Supply
#37 — Launch Program (Plant 2)
#40 — Development (Plant 1)
Openings in thesejobs will always be posted.
Step (1) The vacant job shalt be posted.
Step (2) A vacancy created because of transfer to (he posted job in Step 1, shall be posted:
Any other openings created under 2 above shall be filled at the discretion of the Company.
(d)	Before a final selection on a job posting, the company will advise the Union of its selection within five working days of removal from posting boards and will for a period of48 hours hear representation from the Union and the unsuccessful senior applicant with respect to the selection made from that division.
(e)	A successful applicant on a permanent job posting may not apply on a subsequent posting for a period of four months from the date of his final selection. This period would be extended to 6 months for all jobs itemized in 8,08(c).
(f)	A selection under this section shall not be deemed to be a promotion.
(g)	All applicants who apply for a job opening in accordance with the preceding sub-section 8.08(a) shall be notified in writing (without reason) of their selection or rejection.
(h)	Employees who are absent from work may have a member of the Union executive sign a posting on their behalf, provided they will be available to work when required.
8.09	Following lay-off, employees shall he recalled in accordance with their seniority rights as provided in this article.
8.10	(a) Temporary job openings will be posted when the opening is known to the Company that it will exist for at least 3 months from the time that the Company becomes aware of it.
(b)	A 2-step job posting procedure will be used as in
8.08(c).
25
(e)	Successful applicants to temporary openings will in no ird be able to maintain the position when the incumbent k .rns to work, unless successful on a subsequent permanent job posting. Upon the incumbent’s return to work, or when temporary opening is no longer necessary, employees who filled the openings will be moved out before permanent employees.
ARTICLE IX — LEAVEOF ABSENCE
9.01	The; Company agrees to grant leave of absence in cases of bona fide illness or injury, with seniority accumulated as provided for in Section 8.04(0- The duration of such leave shall be dependent on the nature of the illness or injury, the medical aspects of the case and the effort the employee is making to restore himself to normal health.
9.02	The Company may grant leave of absence requested in writing by an employee for other than illness or injury. This leave shall be i n writing and seniority shall be accumulated as provided for in Section 8.04(f).
9.03	Attendance at Union meetings as delegates or attendance at Union schools will be considered a good reason for leave of absence, provided two weeks notice be given to the Company, if possible. N o more than four employees from Plant 1 and two employees from Plant 2 shall be delegates or students at Union schools at any one time unless mutually agreed upon. It is understood that the delegates or students in each plant will not all be from one department or area.
9.04	An employee who is absent from work because of a compensable injury incurred in the employ of the Company is not considered to be on leave of absence in the meaning of this article. Such employee shall return to work when medically fit to do so subject to the seniority provisions of this agreement. This section in no way restricts the company’s rights under Article III.
9.05	An employee who returns from a leave of absence shall be placed on a job in accordance with his seniority and this agreement.
9.06	Leave of absence without loss of seniority shall be granted to pregnant employees with six months seniority prior to com-
26
mencement of the eleven week period before delivery will occur, as cert' -i by a legally qualified medical practitioner, or a shorter period ,1 the written opinion of the practitioner it is sufficient.
(a)	The Company may require the pregnant employee to commence her leave of absence prior to the commencement of the eleven week period if in the opinion of the Company she cannot reasonably perform her duties. However, the Company and the Union agree to meet prior to such Leave of Absence to ascertain if the employee can be placed in some other position without loss of seniority.
(b)	The Company will grant the pregnant employee six (6) weeks leave of absence following delivery, or such shorter period as in the written opinion of a qualified medical practitioner is considered sufficient, or such longer period not to exceed six months as in the written opinion of a qualified medical practitioner is considered necessary.
9.07	Any bargaining unit employee with at least one year seniority may be granted a leave of absence for a maximum of one year to work in the labour movement, without loss of seniority. It is understood that the Company will not be responsible for benefits, however the said employee will have the option of paying their portion for any required benefits.
This clause will also be limited to one person being absent from each plant at a time.
ARTICLE X — HOURS OF WORK OVERTIME
10.01	The normal work period shall be 40 normal hours per week consisting of 8 normal working hours per day upon each normal work day scheduled Monday through Friday inclusive. The starting hours each day shall be determined by the Company. Bearing in mind such factors as “customer requirements”, the Company will, where practical, give the Union forty-eight (48) hours notice prior to implementing any changes.
10.02	Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 10.01, when the Company schedules a third shift (night), employees assigned to that shift, may commence their normal work period prior to midnight Sunday or Monday.
27
10.03	Overtime payment for hours worked in addition to the normal r ■ 'q hours and up to twelve hours on any day Monday throut riday shall be paid at time and one-half and all hours worked over twelve on any one of these days shall be paid at double time rate. Overtime payment for hours in addition to the normal hours on Saturday and up to 8 hours of overtime shall be time and one-half.
Overtime payment for hours worked in addition to 8 hours of overtime on Saturday and in addition to normal hours on Sunday shall be double time.
(a)	Overtime hours on Saturday shall be the hours between midnight Friday and midnight Saturday, except for those which occur during the employee’s normal hours.
(b)	Overtime hours on Sunday shall be the hours between midnight Saturday and midnight Sunday, except for those hours which occur during the employee’s normal working hours.
(c)	Employees called into work before the regular starting time of their scheduled shift, to prepare the plant for the first shift of production following a plant shut down, shall receive pay at double time for all hours worked immediately before the starting time of the first shift of production, provided they work more than 8 hours during that shift.
10.04	(a) When deemed necessary by the Company, employees will be asked to work additional hours on normal work days in the following manner until the required number has been attained:
(1)	By seniority within the group required normally doing the job on shift.
(2)	Trainee employees within group normally doing the job.
(3)	By seniority in group on same shift (not normally doing the job).
(4)	By shift seniority (working on required shift) people who are familiar with and who are capable of doing the job.
(5)	Probationary employees who are capable of doing the job.
28
(6)	Company will order by reverse seniority empl 's normally doing the job. These employees shall induce probationary employees if they are capable of performing the job at a satisfactory level.
(b)	Overtime following the 3:25 p.m. shift or the 11:55 p.m. shift will be offered to employees in the area in order of seniority, (eg., employee working to 2:55 p.m. will be offered overtime by seniority for 3:25 p.m. However, employee will not be paid from 2:55 p.m. to 3:35 p.m. while waiting for overtime to begin.)
(c)	When overtime work is required following a regular shift, due to unknown absenteeism on the incoming shift, the utility person on the out-going shift will be asked to work, and other employees needed, regardless of seniority. The term “utility person” shall apply only to Plant I.
Unknown, being defined as: any absence not reported to production management 10 minutes before the start of the incoming shift.
(d)	When deemed necessary by the Company, employees will be asked to work additional hours on Saturday and Sunday in the following manner until the required number has been attained:
(1)	By seniority within the group required normally doing the job on shift.
(2)	By seniority in group normally doing job — shifts 2 and 3 (by master seniority over both shifts).
(3)	Trainee employees within group normally doing the job (working on required shift), then 2 and 3 shifts.
(4)	By seniority in group on same shift (not normally doing thejob), then shifts 2 and 3.
(5)	By shift seniority (working on required shift first) people who are familiar with and who are capable of doing thejob.
(6)	Probationary employees who are capable of doing thejob.
(7)	Company will order by reverse seniority employees normally doing the job. These employees shall
29
include probationary employees if they are capable of satisfactorily ' "orming the work.
Who normally perform the work shall mean, where the employee is listed as working on the previous week’s crew lists. When overtime is needed on Sunday, but not known until Saturday, it shall be offered to the same employees who would have been asked on Friday according to the crew lists, if they are actually at work on Saturday.
The Company will have fulfilled its obligation under this section, if on the date it is arranging the overtime work, it asks the employees who are actually at work on that date using the order of procedure as stated in this Section 10.04, It might he necessary to telephone employees working on shift 3 (midnight shift), but if the 3rd shift employee cannot be reached with one telephone call, the Company will have fulfilled its obligation to that employee under this section.
(f)	Employees will be asked once. If the employee does not have a definite answer, it will be considered a “no” by the supervisor and that employee will be required to advise the supervisor as soon as possible when it becomes a definite yes.
(g)	The Company will post the list of those employees who have agreed to work the Saturday and Sunday overtime on the main bulletin board and at the punch clock by 12:00 p.m. on Thursday.
(h)	The time limit to grieve may be extended in the case of overtime.
(i)	'Trainee is defined as an employee with master seniority but no seniority in the group in which they are working. Probationary employee is defined as an employee with no master seniority.
10.05	The Company does not guarantee to provide work for any employees for regularly assigned hours or for any other hours.
10.06	When an employee is requested to change shifts other than on a week-end, he shall be paid at the rate of time and one-half for hours worked on the first shift to which he is transferred.
This section will not apply when the shift change is made under sub-section 8.07(d) or when the change is made at the
30
request of the employee or because of an arrangement made belw imployees.
10.07	a day shall consist of twenty-four hours and shall commence with the starting time of an employee’s shift. If an employee's starting time is changed in mid-week (eg. from 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 a.m.), the employee will be paid time and one-half for one hour. However, if the shift is to be changed to later (eg. 7:00 a.m. to 8:00 a.m.), the employee will receive straight time pay.
10.08	The regular pay period shall be one week of seven days regardless of the day upon which it starts.
10.09	It is the function of the foremen or assistant foremen to develop proper methods, perform experimental setup work and instruct operators as to the proper methods and quality required. It is agreed that foremen and assistant foremen or other excluded personnel will not perform operations regularly performed by employees in the bargaining unit except for brief periods as necessity requires as in emergencies or when required as qualified employees are not immediately available.
A notice shall be posted on the bulletin board and the Plant Superintendent's office.
10.10	(a) When direct labour employees arc required to rotate on three shifts, lunch periods for these employees shall be reduced to twenty minutes and the Company shall pay for the lunch periods.
(b)	When indirect labour employees are required to rotate on three shifts the lunch periods of these employees who are working the afternoon or midnight shifts shall be reduced to twenty minutes and the Company shall pay for the lunch periods.
(c)	When only one maintenance department employee is working in the plant (regardless of shift) his lunch period shall be reduced to twenty minutes and the Company shall pay for the lunch period.
(d)	In order to qualify, employees eligible for paid lunches under sub-sections (a),(b) and (c) above must remain on Company property during their lunch periods.
31
ARTICLE XI — WAGES AND SPECIAL WAGE PRACTICES
11.01	e Company shall provide one ten minute rest period during each half shift.
(a)	The Company shall provide one three minute wash up period at the end of each regular shift.
(b)	The Company shall provide one ten minute rest period at the beginning of an overtime period following the regular 8 hour shift if1 the overtime period is scheduled to last for 1-1/2 hours.
11.02	The Company shall pay a shift premium during the life of this agreement as follows:
Afternoon shift 40 cents per hour Midnight shift 40 cents per hour
1 1.03 For factory injuries requiring first aid or outside medical attention, payment shall be allowed for the remainder of the shift during which the accident occurred or until the employee returns to work, whichever is the sooner. Payment to indirect and direct labour non-incentive employees shall be at the employee's base rate and payment to direct labour incentive employees shall be the employee's base rate x 1,2 per hour. The above with respect to medical attention, applies only when the employee agrees to be seen by a doctor immediately available in Stratford.
1 1.04 (a) Experimental work shall be paid for at the base rate of the non-incentive employee so engaged and at the base rate x
1.2	per hour of the incentive employee so engaged.
(b) Inventory work shall be paid for at the base rate of the non-incentive employee so engaged, and at the base rate x 1.2 per hour of the incentive employee so engaged.
1 1.05 When an employee, not having been instructed otherwise, reports for work on the shift to which he is assigned he shall be given a minimum of 4 hours work at base rate or pay for any part of the 4 hours not worked.
Provided the Company takes all reasonable steps to notify the employee or employees not to report for work, the Company shall be relieved of its duty to an employee or employees as aforesaid and when lack of work is due to any one or more of the following causes:
3.2
Fire, flood, labour dispute, failure of power or other cause beyo ' ’ the control of the Company.
ll.G in employee who is specially called in to work in any emergency at any time after the close of his shift, shall be through when this emergency is over, but shall nevertheless receive pay at time and one-half for a minimum of four hours.
11.07	The Company agrees that in the event of the death of a husband, wife, father, mother, brother, sister, son, daughter, father-in-law, mother-in-law, grandparents, spouse's grandparents, grandchildren, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, daughter-in-law, son-in-law, step parent, step child, common-law spouse, common-law parents or common-law children of a non-probationary employee, which may necessitate an employee to be absent from his scheduled work within his normal-work week, claim for payment for lost time on normal hours up to three consecutive working days, including the day of the funeral, may be made to the Company, after the occurrence and with submission of proof. Payment for such time so lost shall be at the employee's base rate plus shift premium where applicable, except that for an incentive employee, payment will be at the base rate x 1.2 plus shift premium where applicable. If the employee is eligible for any other form of remuneration to which the Company contributes, payment shall not be made under this section for such day or days. Extra unpaid compassionate leave for family members listed above, may be granted to an employee by submitting notification to the Company in writing.
11.08	(a) The Company agrees to pay an employee who serves as a juror or a subpoenaed crown witness in a legally constituted court, the difference between his earnings as ajuror or subpoenaed crown witness and what he would have earned at base rate had be worked his scheduled shift. In the case of an incentive employee, payment will be the difference between his earnings as a juror or subpoenaed crown witness and what he would have earned at base rate x 1.2 per hour had he worked his scheduled shift. In order to be eligible for payment, employees must notify their supervisors within twenty-four hours after receipt of notice of selection for jury duty or notice to appear as a crown witness and must furnish a written statement from the appropriate public official showing the date and time served and the amount of pay received.
33
(b) If an employee selected for jury duty or to appear as
a sub 'tiaed crown witness is working other than the day shift, an ei yec from the day shift who is qualified will be chosen by the Company to substitute for the selected employee on his shift. It is agreed that no more than three employees at any one time will be eligible for this jury duty pay subsidy.
11.09	(a) The rate of pay of an employee when permanently transferred from one job to another. for reasons such as displacement through seniority procedures or application for transfer shall be:
(i)	The rate of pay of the job if the job is a direct labour incentive job.
(ii)	The rate of pay he is entitled to for that job under occupational group seniority if the job is a direct labour nonincentive job or an indirect labour job.
(b)	The base rate of pay for an employee transferred to anotherjob because of his selection through ajob posting shall be:
(i)	The starting base rate of the j ob to which he is transferred i f it is higher than his base rate at time of transfer; or
(ii)	The base rate he was receiving at the time of transfer if it is higher than the starting base rate of the job to which he is transferred; or
(iii)	The top base rate of the job to which he is transferred if it is lower than the base rate he was receiving at the time of transfer.
(c)	When an employee is temporarily transferred out of seniority from his regular job, not pool, he shall be paid at the base rate of his regular job or the base rate of the job transferred to, whichever is the greater, plus any earned incentive pay.
11.10	(a) The base rates for the employees in each division shall be as set out in schedule no. 2(a), (b), (c) and schedule no. 3(a), (b), (c) which are attached hereto and form part of this agreement.
(b) Earnings for the employees in each division as provided in section 2.01 (b) shall be the greater of
(i)	The base rate or
(ii)	The base rate plus that percentage of the base
34
rate by which the employee’s production on a full shift plus overtime • '•eeds the standard of production as predetermined by the Cony j.
(iii)	In the event of overtime, the employee shall be paid on the basis provided in the next preceding paragraph plus 50% of his base rate per hour overtime worked on Monday through Saturday and 100% of his base rate per hour worked on Sunday.
11.11	(a) Pursuant and subject to the provisions of Section 3.01(e) the Company has established the incentive pay plan described in Schedule no. 4 hereto annexed and made a part hereof.
(b) Only employees in the bargaining unit who are working on incentive will be time studied for the purpose of establishing incentive standards.
11.12	A Cost of Living Allowance will be established in accordance with changes in the official Consumer’s Price Index published by Statistics Canada (1986— 100) and hereinafter referred to as the Consumer’s Price Index. Added to the gross earnings will be a Cost of Living Allowance calculated on hours paid for, and on the basis of a one (1) cent adjustment for each change of 0.12 in the Consumer Price Index.
Adjustments will be made quarterly in each year of this agreement in accordance with the following schedule:
Calculations will be made each December, March, June and September during this agreement using the Consumer Price Index in effect on September 1, 1992 (July 1992 Index) to determine the amount of increase in cents, and all increases will be included in the employee’s Cost of Living Allowance.
The Cost of Living Allowance will be adjusted up or down in accordance with the foregoing yearly schedules and in each case beginning with the first pay period in the month for which the adjustment is scheduled. In no event will a decline in the Consumer Price Index below the established base of October 1, 1992 (September 1992 Index) provide a basis for a further reduction in the base rate. One cent is to he taken out of each of the first three calculations, only if the C.O.L.A. is to be increased.
35
In the event the Bureau of Statistics shall not issue the appr '-ate Index before the beginning of one of the pay periods rei'e. - to in the above schedules, any adjustments in the allowance required by such Index shall be effective at the beginning of the first pay period after receipt of such Index.
No adjustments retroactive or otherwise shall be made in the amount of the cost of living due to any revision which later may be made in the published figures for the Index for any month on the basis of which the allowance shall have been determined. Continuance of the Cost of Living Allowance shall be contingent upon the availability of the Index in its present form using 1986 — 100.
11.12	(a) There will be no Cost of Living fold-in for the duration of this Agreement.
ARTICLE XII — HOLIDAYS
12.01	(a) The following shall be paid holidays:
Thanksgiving day Remembrance day December 24 Christmas day December 26 December 31
New Years day Good Friday Queen’s birthday Dominion day Civic holiday Labour day
(b) The amount of holiday pay shall be 10 hours at the base rate without shift bonus for all incentive employees and 8 hours at base rate without shift bonus for all non-incentive employees.
12.02	(a) For all hours worked between 7:00 a.m. on the day of observance of the holiday until 7:00 a.m. the following day, payment shall be made at double time the employee’s base rate in addition to holiday pay, if qualified therefore as set out in this article.
(b) Where employees have elected under Section 10.02 to commence their work week at 11:00 p.m, Sunday, the above section shall read as follows: “for all hours worked between 7:00 a.m. on the day prior to the day of observance of the holiday until 7:00 a.m. of the day of observance of the holiday payment shall be
36
made at double time the employee's base rate in addition to holiday if qualified therefore as set out in this article."
12.(L ,a) The employee in order to qualify for such holiday pay, must have completed 30 calendar days of employment with the Company and must work the regular scheduled shift immediately preceding and following the holiday, unless absent one of such shifts, but not both, with good reason acceptable to the Company. Good reason shall include lay-offs, approved leave of absence, union business, etc.
An employee who does not qualify for holiday pay because he has not completed 30 calendar days of employment with the Company on the date the Holiday is observed shall be entitled to pay for such holiday retroactively when he has completed 30 calendar days of employment, if he has fulfilled all other qualifying requirements of this section.
If an employee is laid off within 5 working days prior to observance of the holiday and remains laid off following the observance of the holiday, but is recalled and reports within 5 working days following the holiday, the employee will be eligible for holiday pay.
(b)	In order to have their reason acceptable to the Company, the employees must report their inability to report for work to their foreman or plant superintendent and be prepared to provide proof at a later date. If an employee is requested to get a Doctor's Certificate (not sickness and accident papers), the Company will pay up to $5.00 for the certificate if the employee is charged for it.
12.04	When one of the holidays falls during the vacation period of an employee otherwise eligible for such holiday pay, he will be paid for the holiday in accordance with this article. Such holiday shall be observed either the day immediately following or preceding the employee's vacation period, at the Company's discretion.
12.05	Holidays referred to herein occurring on a Saturday shall be observed on the previous Friday and holidays occurring on a Sunday shall be observed on the following Monday. With respect to Dominion day, the Company shall have the right when it occurs on a Tuesday or Wednesday, to reschedule observance of the holiday to the previous Monday, and when it occurs on a Thursday, to reschedule observance of the holiday to the following Friday.
37
12.06 Employees will receive one (I) day off with pay, or pay in lieu f " they report to work each regular scheduled shift for 200 constv working days.
Employees will receive three (3) working days off with pay, or pay in lieu of, if they report to work each regular scheduled shift for 400 consecutive working days.
Days may be taken with the mutual consent of the parties either together, separately or in half days, (two (2) 1/2 days of four (4) hours each equal one (1) day), keeping in mind that production requirements nust be maintained at all times. Accumulation of days will not be allowed.
Paid holidays, bereavement days, and union business shall be counted as days worked. Four day, 10 hour shifts shall be counted as 5 days worked.
An employee's accumulation of days shall not be interrupted by annual vacalions or lay-offs.
ARTICLE XIII — VACATIONS
13.01	(a) Employees with 30 years or more of Company service as of June 30 of the year of vacation, will receive 5 weeks vacation with vacation pay of 11.5% of their gross earnings from July 1 of the previous year to June 30 of the current year. At the Company's discretion, the third, fourth and fifth weeks may not necessarily be given consecutively with any other regular vacation period.
(b) Employees with 25 years or more of Company service as of June 30, of the year of vacation will receive 5 weeks vacation with vacation pay of 11 % of their gross earnings from July 1 of the previous year to June 30 of the current year. At the Company's discretion, the third, fourth, and fifth weeks may not necessarily be given consecutively with any other regular vacation period.
13.02	Employees with 20 years or more of Company service as of June 30 of the year of vacation will receive 5 weeks vacation with vacation pay of 10% of their gross earnings from July 1 of the previous year to June 30 of the current year. At the Company's discretion, the third, fourth and fifth weeks may not necessarily be given consecutively with any other regular vacation period.
38
13.03	Employees with fifteen years or more service but less than 20 y' -s of Company service as of June 30 of the year of vacation wili live four weeks vacation with vacation pay of 9% of their gross earnings from July I of the previous year to June 30 of the current year. At the Company’s discretion. the third and fourth weeks may not necessarily be given consecutively with any other regular vacation period.
13.04	Employees with ten years or more service but less than 15 years of Company service as of June 30 of the year of vacation will receive three weeks vacation with vacation pay of 8% of their gross earnings from July I of the previous year to June 30 of the current year. At the Company’s discretion the third week may not necessarily be given consecutively with any other regular vacation period.
13.05	Employees with five years or more service but less than 10 years of Company service as of June 30 of the year of vacation will receive three weeks vacation with vacation pay cf 7% of their gross earnings from July 1 of the previous year to June 30 of the current year. At the Company’s discretion the third week may not necessarily be given consecutively with any other regular vacation period.
13.06	Employees with less than live years of Company service as of June 30 of the year of vacation will receive two or one weeks vacation and 4% of their gross earnings from July 1 of the previous year to June 30 of the current year in compliance with the vacation with pay section of the Ontario Employment Standards Act.
13.07	When an employee voluntarily terminates his or her employment with the Company, the employee will be paid any accrued vacation pay in accordance with the vacation pay percentages of Sections 13.01 through 13.06 in which the employee is classified because of the employee’s service credit at the time of said termination.
ARTICLE XIV — MISCELLANEOUS
14.01	The Company will provide a bulletin hoard in a mutually satisfactory location in each plant for the convenience of the Union in posting notices of union activity. All such notices must
39
be signed by an officer or his authorized representative for
appro' efore being posted.
.14.02 i ne Company will furnish and maintain, without charge to the employee. special wearing apparel considered necessary by mutual agreement between the Company and the Union.
14.03	Welfare benefits shall be .provided as outlined in Schedule No. 1.
14.04	Technological Change
For the purpose of this agreement, the term “Technological Change” shall be understood to mean the introduction of equipment and/or material of a different nature than that previously used. which changes the terms and conditions or security of employment of a major number of employees.
The Company agrees to give as much notice as possible and to meet with the Union Executive prior to such changes being implemented.
“’Technological Change” does not include normal layoffs resulting from a decrease in the amount of work to be done.
(a) Employee Training Program
The Company and Union recognize the importance of providing training opportunities for all employees so that they can handle technological changes and/or improve their skills and allow the opportunity to advance to jobs of greater responsibility and higher pay. Because of changing conditions and in particular technological changes, new approaches to employee training may be required.
This being recognized, the Company will undertake to introduce a training program wherever necessary. The purpose of this training program is to meet the training needs and as these needs change, the program may have to be modified.
14.03	The Company and the Union agree that better cross training for all jobs is necessary to ensure a more viable and competitive operation. The parties mutually agree to implement training whenever production requirements permit, with the understanding that this can only be accomplished while maintaining consistency and efficiency throughout the plant as well as having a willing and enthusiastic workforce. The Company welcomes any suggestions
40
on training from the Union at any time and agrees to meet pcriodi-
call. "oughout the term of the Collective Labour Agreement in orde. j explore any new ideas or techniques.
ARTICLE XV - SKILLED TRADES
15.01	Skilled Trades classificationsshall be as listed below:
Plant # 1
Group # 43 15 30
35
36
Maintenance Helper Maintenance Leader Maintenance Industrial Millwright Apprentice Certified Industrial Millwright
Plant # 2
Group # 43 Maintenance Helper
15	Maintenance
16	Leader Maintenance
34	Maintenance Electrician
35	Industrial Millwright Apprentice
36	Certified Industrial Millwright
The above does not in any way restrict the Company under Section 3.01 (d) of this agreement.
15.02	(a) Millwright Apprentices wage class set out as follows:
At end of fourth year (more than 8000 hours) 95 % At end of third year (more than 6000 hours) 90% At end of second year (more than 4000 hours) 85 % At end of first year (more than 2000 hours) 80% Base rate (first year)	75 %
(b)	Maintenance Helper will earn a base rate equivalent with the first year apprentice base rate. A 60 day probationary period will be in place and the rate will be 10 cents/hour less during this period. There will only be as many helpers as there are apprentices.
(c)	It is the intent of this clause that Helpers will be selected to apprentice openings by seniority.
(d)	In order to be selected for a Maintenance Helper position, the applicant must successfully pass a practical and
41
written test as mutually agreed upon by the Company and the Union
15.03	ie Company will replace through Snap-on Tools, tools belonging to the Skilled Trades personnel (Plant #1 ■ Groups 15, 30, 35, 36), (Plant #2 - Groups 15, 16, 34, 35, 36), that arc broken or become worn because of use in the performance of their duties.
An inventory of such tools will be provided to the Company for approval and replacement.
ARTICLE XVI - HEALTH & SAFETY 16.01 There shall be for each division, a plant Joint Health & Safety Committee. It shall be the duty of this committee to meet as often as necessary for the purpose of devising ways and means of eliminating hazards and to formulate policies for approval which shall promote the safe operation of the company’s plant.
The Company will strive to be in compliance with existing and applicable health and safety legislation. The Occupational Health and Safety Act provides the legal framework for the protection of workers exposed to hazards in the workplace. Joint Health and Safety Committees' form the mechanism for maintaining a co-operative effort. The Joint Health & Safety Committee is an advisory body that is expected to help stimulate an awareness of health and safety issues and an atmosphere of co-operation between employers and workers.
The employer agrees to make every reasonable effort to provide suitable alternate work to any employee who is unable to perform normal duties as a consequence of work-related illness or injury. The union agrees to council its members on the benefits of co-operating in the Alternate Work Program. The employer agrees to establish a joint alternate work committee between Union, management and employee upon Doctor’s approval to provide a practical rehabilitation program that will assist in the return of injured employees to a productive role, while meeting the provisions of the Workers’ Compensation,Act. The Company will endeavour to protect the employment of the injured employee according to our Collective Agreement.
42
ARTICLE XVII — DURATION OF AGREEMENT
17.0! nendmcnts to this agreement may be made in writing by mutua onsent of both parties.
17.02 This agreement shall be in effect until the 30th day of September. 1995 and shall continue from year to year thereafter unless either party gives notice in writing of its desire to amend this agreement not earlier that three months nor later than two months prior to the date of expiration. The said notice shall be accompanied by a full description of the proposed amendments. Signed this 4th day of July, 1992.
For the Company:
Howard Hallam Pat Stears G. Douglas Smith
For the Canadian Brotherhood of Railway, Transport & General Workers, Local 451:
Linda White Jamie Ransley Ruth Wagner Joseph Nethercott Bonnie Henderson Peggy Reis Gail Culp
Cy Hoadley, Representative
WELFARE Schedule No. 1 Company Benefits
Employees shall become eligible on the first billing date following the completion of their probationary period as outlined below.
Section 1
Non-occupational sickness and accident insurance coverage commencing on the 1st day for hospitalization and accident, 4th day for sickness for up to 32 weeks.
The amount of coverage per week will be:
Effective October 1,1992 —
$190.00 €orfirst 17 weeks, $300.00 last 15 weeks
43
Effective October 1,1993 —
$190.00 for first 17 weeks, $350.00 last 15 weeks active October 1,1994 —
$190.00 for first 17 weeks, $350.00 last 15 weeks
Section 2
(a)	Life Insurance and A.D. & D. coverage of
$20,000.00
(b)	The Company will continue to carry $4,000.00 group life insurance coverage for employees who retire on normal retirement pension, disability retirement pension or early retirement pension under the retirement pension plan agreement.
Section 3 Hospital and Medical Coverage
The Company will pay the single rate premium for all eligible employees and the family rate premium for employees with dependents in cases where the employee is not covered by spouse with another employer, required by Ontario Health Insurance Plan (OH1P) for ward coverage.
Under 3 above, dependent means dependent recognized as such by the Department of Internal Revenue, Income Tax Division.
Section 4
Commencing on the 1st day of .February, 1978 the Company will pay the cost of a prescription drug plan ($1.00 deductible effective October 1, 1992) for employees and their dependents in cases where the employee is not covered by spouse with another employer. Dependent is as defined in Section 3 above.
Section 5
As of October, 1980 the Company shall establish a Company, Union Pension Plan to be known as:
Retirement Benefit Plan Agreement between
Standard Products (Canada) Limited and
The Canadian Brotherhood of Railway, Transport &
General Workers Local 451
(see Pension Agreement attached)
44
Section 6
The Company will provide a dental plan for employees ana ...eir dependents based on the:
Effective October 1,1992 — 1990 Dental Fee Guide Effective October 1,1993 — 1991 Dental Fee Guide Effective October 1,1994 — 1992 Dental Fee Guide Dental Expense Benefit
The Company will provide dental expense benefits according to this section for employees and their dependents, following completion of their probationary period.
1.	Maximum benefits — the maximum benefit amount payable for basic and major services combined is $1500 per calendar year and for a lifetime for orthodontic services:
Effective Octoberl, 1992 — $1600 Effective Octoberl, 1993 — $1650 Effective October 1,1994 — $1700
2.	Treatment pian — When the total cost of proposed dental work is expected to exceed $300.00, the company recommends that a treatment plan be filed for benefit determination prior to the date treatment is rendered.
3.	Eligible expense — Eligible expenses are those which are recommended as necessary by a physician or dentist that are not in excess of the suggested fee for general practitioners in the 1990, 1991 and 1992 Dental Fee Guide respectively, or the minimum fee specified in the 1990, 1991 and 1992 Denturist Fee Guide respectively, of the Province of Ontario.
The Company reserves the right to use the least expensive method of treatment that would provide a professionally adequate result. The eligible expenses are limited to the following:
Basic Services— 100% Payable Examinations Complete Oral Examination
(Once every 2 years)	01101, 01102, 01103
**(Onceevery3 years — ADULTS ONLY)
Recall Oral Examination
(Twice every 12 months)	01202, 01203
Emergency Examination	0 120s
Specific Oral Area Examination
01402, 01502, 01602, 01703, 01802
45
Diagnostic Services
Radiogn ' Examination (X-Ray),
Comple, ^eries Intra-Oral Films
(Once every 2 years)	02101,02102
Periapical Films	02111-02125 (inclusive)
Occlusal Films	02131 -02136 (inclusive)
Posterior Bite-Wing Films
(Twice i n any 12 months)	02141 -02146 (inclusive)
Panoramic Film (Once every 24 months)	02601
Cephalometric X-rays, Films	02701 -02704, 02709
Tracing of radiographs	02751, 02752, 02759
Interpretation of radiographs from
another source	02801,02802,02809
Tests and Laboratory Examinations
Biopsy, Soft-Hard Tissue Cytological Examination Pulp Vitality Tests Diagnostic Casts
0431 1-04313, 04321-04323 04401 04501,04509 04911
Preventive Services
Scaling and Polishing
(Twicein any 12 months)	11101, 11102, 11103
**(Once in 9 months — ADULTS ONLY)
Fluoride Treatment
(Twice in any 12 months)	12101, 12102
**(Oncein 9 months—ADULTS ONLY)
Oral Hygiene Instruction
(Onceevery 12 months)	13211-13214,	13219
Plaque Control Program
(Once only, family maximum of $50)	13200
Caries/Pain Conlrol/Pulp Capping	20111,20119,	20121
20129, 20130,	20139
Interproximal discing of teeth	13701-13703,	13709
Space maintainors 15101-15104, 15201, 15202, 15301, 15302
15401-15403, 15501, 15601, 15602 Nutritional counselling	'
(Once every 24 months per family)	13101-13104,	13109
Polishing and finishing restorations	13301-13304,	13309
Occlusal pit and fissure
Sealants	13401,	13409
46
Protective athletic mouth appliance (O vearly)	13501, 13502
Endodontic Services
Emergency Procedures	32221-32232, 32311-32315, 32321
33501,39211,39212
Periodontal Services
Management of acute infections
and other oral lesions	41211-41214, 41219, 41221-41224
4I229
Surgical Services
Surgical incision	75111 -75113, 75121
Miscellaneous surgical services 75122, 75123, 75211,75212,
75221
Adjunctive General Services
Drugs (Injections)	96101-96103, 96201,96202
Basic Services— 80% Payable Case Presentation
Treatment planning	05101 -05104, 05109
Consultation with patient	05201, 05202, 05209
Restorative Services
Amalgam Restorations
Primary Teeth	21101-21105 (inclusive)
Permanent anterior and
Bicuspid teeth Permanent molar teeth Pin Reinforcement
Silicate restorations Acrylic or composite restorations
Other restorative services
23411
Crowns
21211-21215 (inclusive) 21221-21225 (inclusive) 21301, 21401-21405, 22201,22211 22301, 22311 22401, 22501 23101-23105,23111-23114, 23121 23122, 23123,23211-23215 23221-23225,23311-23315 23321-23325, 23401-23405 -23415, 23501 -23505, 235 11 -23515 27401,27409
Endodontic Services
Pulpotomy	32231
Root Canal Therapy	3311 1 -33116, 33121 -33126
33131-33136, 33141-33146 33201-33205. 33401-33403
47
Apexification
33601
Periapit Services	34111
34114, 34131
Banding of tooth to maintain Sterile operating field Chemical BI each i ng Intentional removal, apical filling and reimplantion	34451
Emergency procedures
Periodontal Services
Gingival Curettage Gingivoplasty
Gingivectomy	42311,
Osseous surgery/grafts	42411,42421,
Soft tissue grafts
Post surgical treatment	42821,
Provisional splinting	43111,
Occlusal equilibration Periodontal scaling and root planing
Special periodontal appliances (Including occlusal guards)
Anaesthesia	92212-92219,92222
92311-92319, 92331-92339, Consultation with another dentist Prosthodontic services — Removable Denture adjustments/repairs	54301
Denture rebasing & relining (Once in a 36 month period)
Surgical Services
Removal of erupted tooth (uncomplicated) single tooth
Each additional tooth in same surgical site Removal of erupted tooth (complicated) Removal of impacted tooth	72111,
72221,
Removal of residual roots	72311,
■33505, 33611 •33114, 34121 •34135,34141
39100,
39201,
•34453,39501 3442 b
42321, 42331, 42431,42441,
42822, 42823, 43211,43221, 43241, 43311-43314, 43411-43416, 43421-43426,
43611, -92229, 92252, 92341, 9235293111,93112,
-54303,54401-
54501-
-33614
-34124
-34145
39101
39202
■39503
■34423
42111 42201 42339 42521 42511 42829 43231 43261 43319 43419 43429
43612
•92259
92359
93119
54403
54503
56601, 56602
71101
71201, 72119, 72211, 72229, 72231, 72319, 72321, 72331,
71109
71209
72219
72239
72329
72339
48
Surgical exposure of tooth
72511,72510,7252 , 72S29
7254 ,72551
Alveoi sty	7311 ,73121
Gingivoplasty and/or stomatoplasty 73152, 7321 1,7322 , 73224 Surgical Excision	74111-74118,7411 -74128
74211 -74218, 74221 -74228, 7461 -74618 Fractures	76911,76921
Fractures 76201, 76301,76401, 76601,76202, 76302, 76402 7650.3, 76605, 76701,76912, 76922,76931 Frenectomy	77801-77806
Miscellaneous Surgical Services	7931 1-79314, 79321,79322
79331-79333,79341-79343
Major Services— 50% Payable Restorative Services
Metal Inlay Restorations	25 I 1 I -25 I 14, 25121 -25 124
2513 l-2sl 34, 25141-25144 Retentive Pins	25601-25605 (inclusive)
Crowns	27100, 271 10-27114, 27121,27 122, 27130
27201,27211, 27212, 27301, 27302, 27311, 27312, 27313 Post and core	2751 I -27513, 25721 -25724
25731-25733,25741-25743 Other restorative services	29 101 -29103, 29109
29301-29303, 29309
Prosthodontics
Complete dentures Immediate dentures Transitional partial dentures Removable partial dentures
Denture adjustments — after 3 months post-insertion care Retainers for bridgework
Pontics
62101-62103,
Removal, Repair, Recementation of bridgework
66111-66113, 66119
Prefabricated veneer anolication Onlays and crowns
49
^	Orthodontics— 80% Payable
x	Interceptive Orthodontics
Obser n/Adjustment/Appliances	800.00
(Retention applicance pays at 50%)
Section 7
An employee whose active employment is terminated by lay-off shall be covered for all benefits until the end of the month following the month of lay-off.
Provision will be made that an employee may carry on benefit coverage for himself and his dependents beyond the periods set out above, except weekly indemnity and when on lay-off weekly indemnity, life and accidental death and dismemberment, by payment monthly in advance to the Company, of the total premiums applicable to such benefits. Such payments shall be the responsibility of the employee and this privilege will terminate on termination of employment or failure to pay the premiums provided. Premiums must be submitted by the 25th of the month in which benefit coverage is still active.
An employee whose active employment is terminated by confirmed sickness or injury, whether covered by Workers’ Compensation or not. shall be covered for all benefits until the end of the month in which such period has reached 52 weeks duration.
Section 8
The Company shall provide for eye glasses to a maximum of Effective October 1,1992 —
$160.00 (one hundred and sixty dollars)
Effective October 1,1993 —
$170.00 (one hundred and seventy dollars) Effective October 1,1994 —
$175.00 (one hundred and seventy-five dollars) in any period of twenty-four months, with written prescription from a medical physician or optometrist. This provision includes contact lenses, medically necessary, to a maximum of two hundred and fifty dollars ($250.00) in any period of twenty-four (24) months. There is no provision to cover sun or safety glasses.
Extended Health Care — Effective October 1, 1989, 100% Company paid benefits include:
50
1.	Private duty nursing (RN) or licensed practical nursing ir 'l' < ■ home or hospital subject to a maximum of five thousand dolla. 5,000) in a three (3) consecutive year period.
2.	Registered or licensed physiotherapist, including diagnostic.
3.	Laboratory tests and x-rays.
4.	Purchase or rental of special remedial appliances, trusses, braces, crutches, artificial limbs, eyes.
5.	Specialized treatments such as radium, deep x-ray and radioisotopes, oxygen, plasma or blood transfusion, surgical dressing and bandages.
6.	Ambulance service to the nearest hospital.
7.	Registered clinical psychologist in the amount of fifty percent (50%) for such services, to a maximum of two hundred and fifty dollars ($250) in a twelve (12) consecutive month period per calendar year for each of such services.
8.	Registered masseurs, osteopaths, natureopaths, podiatrists and chiropractors to a maximum of two hundred and fifty dollars ($250) in a twelve (12) consecutive month period per calendar year for each of such services. X-ray examinations are limited to one (1) per year for each service.
9.	Qualified speech therapist to a maximum of two hundred and fifty dollars ($250) during any period of twelve (12) consecutive months per calendar year. Such coverage must be certified as necessary by a medical physician or dentist.
10.	Medical fees where legal while travelling or residing outside Ontario when such fees are in excess of the Ontario Medical Association Schedule of Fees and are not greater than the amount that would be paid in Ontario if it were legal to provide such benefits in Ontario.
11.	Hearing aids to a maximum of five hundred ($500) once in a 2-year period.
Retiree Benefits
All employees who retire shall maintain benefit coverage for all plans utilized by them at the time of retirement at current rates established by the active employees.
51
Modification and Termination
8.01	TK ireemcnt is subject to such amendment from time to lime as nta, >e necessary to meet the requirements of any applicable federal or provincial laws, orders or regulations.
8.02	'This agreement may be modified or discontinued, after sixty days notice to the Union, but not prior to the effective date of any change in the legislation referred to hereinafter, should the whole or any part of the expenses to the Company be disallowed as a deduction for income tax purposes, or should the income tax laws be changed to provide for disallowance in whole or in part payments of this class and kind as income tax deductions. Should modification or discontinuance of this agreement become necessary for any of these reasons, negotiations will be resumed immediately after such notice is given. .
8.03	If at any time the federal or provincial government passes legislation which directly or indirectly has the effect of providing benefits similar to one or more of the benefits described in this agreement for which the employees as a class shall be eligible, this agreement shall terminate in respect to that benefit or benefits upon the expiration of thirty days after the proclamation of such statute or upon the date the statute comes into effect, whichever is later. During such thirty day period or such longer period as may expire after date of proclamation of the statute, the parties will meet for the purpose of negotiating any amendments required or desirable to assure that the aggregate of the statutory benefits provided under this agreement consistent with previous costs of this agreement, shall approximate in kind and money value to the benefits provided under this agreement before said statutory enactment.
52
Schedule 2A — Plant No. 1 Labour Rates by Occupational Groups effective July 4,1992
Direct iMbour
Group
85%
1.	Pool Light (drill set-up .50)	8.44
2.	Pool Heavy	8.40
3.	Oakes Machine Operator
Working Leader & Utility	8.63
4.	Oakes Machine Helper
and Compounder	8.46
5.	Hybrid Tunnel Extrusion &
Marrying Line Processing	8.46
6.	Dipping/Remove Strips Clip
and Pack (Roof Rail)	8.69
8.	Liquid Foam & Sponge Rubber
Insert Moulding	8.45
9.	Dipper Cement Operator Working
Leader & Utility	8.90
10.	Extruder Set-up & Operate	8.46
11.	Hybrid Inspect & Pack	8.40
16.	Cement Room Operator	8.77
18.	Inspect & Pack (Regular)	8.30
19.	Vulcanizing (Regular)	8.45
21.	Heavy Labour Mainlines	8.40
23.	Hybrid Strip, Cut, Drill,	Prime 8.40
26.	Hybrid Joining	8.60
27.	Hybrid Molded Corners	8.44
28.	Hybrid Long Saws	8.35
31.	G-Van Cell	8.30
32.	Hybrid Tunnel Extrusion & Marrying Line Processing Working Leader 8.67
33.	Vinyl Extruding Roll Forming	8.43
34.	Window Garnish Finishing Cell	8.30
37.	Taping	8.30
38.	Foam Finish Moduling	8.30
39.	Extrude, Marry & Finish Cell	8.49
42.	Service Finishing	8.35
Y0%	95%
8.94	9.43
8.89	9.39
9.13	9.64
8.95	9.45
8.95	9.45
9.20	9.71
8.95	9.44
9.42	9.95
8.95	9.45
8.89	9.39
9.29	9.80
8.78	9.27
8.95	9.44
8.89	9.39
8.89	9.39
9.11	9.61
8.94	9.43
8.84	9.33
8.78	9.27
9.18	9.69
8.93	9.42
8.78	9.27
8.78	9.27
8.78	9.27
8.99	9.49
8.84	9.33
Rate
100%
9.93
9.88
10.15
9.95
9.95 10.22
9.94
10.47
9.95
9.88 10.32
9.76 9.94
9.88
9.88 10.12 9.93 9.82
9.76
10.20
9.92
9.76
9.76
9.76 9.99 9.82
53
Direct Labour Non-Incentive
Start
7.	Foam Mixers	12.23
85%	10.39
90%	11.01
95%	11.62
Sen. in Group
12.33
10.48
11.10
11.71
Indirect tabour
12.	Receiving, Shipping, Stock Handling
Lift Truck Operator	85%
90%
95%
13.	Material Handlers, Checkers, Lift
Truck Operator	85%
90%
95%
14.	Inspector Quality Control
85%
90%
95%
17.	Teaching & Repairs
85%
90%
95%
24. Hybrid Adhesive System Preparation and Supply
85%
90%
95%
40. Development
85%
90%
95%
SKILLED TRADES
15.	Maintenance
30.	Leader Maintenance
Start Sen. in 45 W.D. Group After Sen. in Group
12.18	12.28	12.38
10.35	10.44 10.52
10.96	11.05	11.14
11.57	11.67	11.76
12.01	12.06	12.11
10.21	10.25	10.29
10.81	10.85	10,90
11.41	11.46	11.50
12.19	12.29	12.39
10.36	10.45	10.53
10.97	11.06	11.15
11.58	11.67	11.77
11.94
10.15
10.75
11.34
12.06	12.11	12.16
10.25	10.29	10.35
10.85	10.90	10.94
11.46	11.50	11.55
11.94
10.15
10.75
11.34
12.54	12.74	12.94
13.49
54
35 Indus Millwright Apprentice
Year I (75%) Year 2 (80%) Year 3 (85%) Year 4 (90%) Year 5 (95%)
36.	Certified Industrial Millwright (Cert. Lead Hand + 10 cents)
4 3. Maintenance Helper Night premiums: Afternoon shift .40 Midnight shift .40
Subjectto above Progressive Hiring rales: 85% first 6 months employment 90% next 6 months employment 95% next 6 months employment 100% after 18 months employment (Exclusive of Skilled Trades)
Start Sen in 45 WD Group After Sen m Group
11.18
11.92
12.67
13.41
14.15
14.50	14.70	14.90
11.00 11.10
Schedule 2B — Plant No. 1 Labour Rates by Occupational Groups effective October 1,1993 Group	Direct Labour
S57,	90%	95%
1.	Pool Light (drill set-up .50)	8.52
2.	Pool Heavy	8.47
3.	Oakes Machine Operator
Working Leader & Utility	8.70
4.	Oakes Machine Helper
and Compounder	8.53
5.	Hybrid Tunnel Extrusion &
Marrying Line Processing	8.53
6.	Dipping/Rcmovc Strips Clip
and Pack (Roof Rail)	8.76
8.	Liquid Foam & Sponge Rubber
Insert Moulding	8,52
9.	Dipper Cement Operator Working
Leader & Utility	8.98
9.02	9.52
8.97	9,47
9.21	9.73
9.04	9.54
9.04	9.54
9.28	9.79
9.03	9.52
9.50	10.03
Rate
100%
10.02
9.97
10.24
10.04
10.04 10.31 10.03 10.56
55
Group
85%
10.	Ea Jer Set-up & Operate	8,53
11.	Hybrid Inspect & Pack	8,47
16.	Cement Room Operator	8.45
18.	Inspect & Pack (Regular)	8.37
19.	Vulcanizing (Regular) •	8.52
21.	Heavy Labour Mainlines	8.47
23.	Hybrid Strip, Cut, Drill, Prime 8.47
26.	Hybrid Joining	8.68
27.	Hybrid Molded Corners	8.52
28.	Hybrid Long Saws	8.42
31.	G-Van Cell	8.37
32.	Hybrid Tunnel Extrusion & Marrying
Line Processing Working Leader	8.75
33.	Vinyl Extruding Roll Forming	8.51
34.	Window Garnish Finishing Cell	8.37
37.	Taping	8.37
38.	Foam Finish Moduling	8.37
39.	Extrude. Marry & Finish Cell	8.57
42.	Service Finishing	8.42
90%
9.04
8.97 9.37 8.86 9.03
8.97
8.97 9.19 9.02
8.92 8.86
9.26
9.01
8.86
8.86
8.86
9.07
8.92
Rate
95%	100%
9.54	10.04
9.47	9.97
9.89	10.41
9.36	9.85
9.52	10.03
9.47	9.97
9.47	9.97
9.70	10.21
9.52	10.02
9.41	9.91
9.36	9.85
9.77	10.29
9.51	10.01
9.36	9.85
9.36	9.85
9.36	9.85 9.58 10.08
9.41	9.91
Direct Labour Non-Incentive
Start
7.	Foam Mixers	12.34
85%	10.49
90%	11.11
95%	11.72
Sen. in Group
12.44
10.57
11.20
11.82
Indirect luibour
Stan
12.
13
Receiving, Shipping, Stock Handling Lift Truck Operator	85%
90%
95%
Material Handlers, Checkers, Lift Truck Operator	85%
90% ■ 95%
12.29 10.45 11.06 11.67 12.12
10.30 10.91 11.51
Sen. in 45 W.L). Group After Sen. in Group
12.39	12.49
10.53	10.62
11.15 11.24 11.77 11.86 12.17	12.22
10.34 10.39 10.95	11.00
11.56 11.61
56
14, Insp^ ir Quality Control
85%
90%
95%
17. Teaching & Repairs
85%
90%
95%
24. Hybrid Adhesive System Preparation and Supply
85%
90%
95%
40. Development
85%
90%
95%
SKILLED TRADES 15. Maintenance 30, Leader Maintenancc
35,	Industrial Millwright Apprentice
Year 1 (75%) Year 2 (80%) Year 3 (85%) Year 4 (90%) Year 5 (95%)
36,	Certified Industrial Millwright (Cert. Lead Hand + 10 cents)
43. Maintenance Helper Night premiums: Afternoon shift .40 Midnight shift ,40
Subject to above Progressive Hiring rates: 85% first 6 months employment 90% next 6 months employment 95% next 6 months employment 100% after 18 months employment (Exclusive of Skilled Trades)
Start	'ypn m	45 W D
Group After Sen in Group
12.30	12.40	12,50
10,45	10,54	10.62
11.07	11,16	11.25
11.68	11.78	11.87
12.05
10.24
10.84
11.45
12.17	12.22	12.27
10.34	10.39	10.43
10.95	11.00	11.04
11.56	11.61	11,66
12.05
10.24
10.84
11.45
12.65	12.85	13.05
13.60
11.26
12.01
12.76
13.51
14.26
14.61	14.81	15,01
11.11 11.21
57
W ^ UJ WjJ	W w w N) K) KJ ts) — -—. ■—.
N) 'C OC *-4 ^ W	N)^-X'JO'W — \OOCOS

Schedule 2C — Plant No. 1 Labour Rates by Occupational Groups effective October 1,1994
Group
Direct Labour
5.
6.
10.
85%
8.58
8.54
Pool Light (drill set-up .50)
Pool Heavy
Oakes Machine Operator Working Leader & Utility Oakes Machine Helper and Compounder Hybrid Tunnel Extrusion &
Marrying Line Processing Dipping/Remove Strips Clip and Pack (Roof Rail)
Liquid Foam & Sponge Rubber Insert Moulding
Dipper Cement Operator Working Leader & Utility Extruder Set-up & Operate Hybrid Inspect & Pack Cement Room Operator Inspect & Pack (Regular)
Vulcanizing (Regular)
Heavy Labour Mainlines Hybrid Strip, Cut, Drill, Prime Hybrid Joining Hybrid Molded Comers Hybrid Long Saws G-Van Cell Hybrid Tunnel Extrusion & Marrying Line Processing Working Leader 8.81 Vinyl Extruding Roll Forming Window Garnish Finishing Cell Taping
Foam Finish Moduling Extrude, Marry & Finish Cell Service Finishing
8.77
8.60
8.60
8.83
8.59
9.04
8.60
8.54 8.92
8.44 8.59
8.54
8.54 8.75 8.58 8.49
8.44
8.58
8.44
8.44
8.44 8.64 8.49
90%	95%
9.09	9.59
9.04	9.55
9.29	9.80
9.11	9.61
9.11	9.61
9.35	9.87
9.10	9.60
9.58	10.11
9.11	9.61
9.04	9.55
9.44	9.96
8.94	9.43
9.10	9.60
9.04	9.55
9.04	9.55
9.26	9.77
9.09	9,59
8.99	9.49
8.94	9.43
9.33	9.85
9.08	9.58
8.94	9.43
8.94	9.43
8.94	9.43
9.14	9.65
8.99	9.49
Kate
100%
10.10
10.05
10.32
10,12
10.12
10.39
10,11
10.64
10.12
10.05 10.49
9.93
10.11
10.05
10.05 10.29 10.10
9.99
9.93
10.37
10.09
9.93
9.93
9.93 10.16
9.99
58
Direct I Mb our Non-Incentive
Start
7. Foi. fixers	12.44
85%	10.57
90%	11.20
95%	11.82
Sen m Group
12.54
10.66
11.29
11.91
Indirect labour
12. Receiving, Shipping, Stock Handling Lift Truck Operator	85%
90%
95%
13.	Material Handlers, Checkers, Lift Truck Operator
14.	Inspector Quality Control 17. Teaching & Repairs
85% 90% 95%
X5% 90% 95%
85% 90% 95%
24, Hybrid Adhesive System Preparation and Supply
85%
90%
95%
40. Development
85%
90%
95%
Start	Sen m	45 WD
Group After Sen in Group
12.39	12,49	12.59
10.53	10.62	10.70
11.15	11.24	11.33
11.77	11.86	11.96
12.22	12.27	12.32
10.39	10.4.7	10.47
11.00	II .04	11.09
11.61	11.66	11.70
12.40	12.50	12.60
10.54	10.62	10.71
11.16	11.25	11.34
11.78	11.87	11.97
12.15
10.33
10.93
11.54
12.37 10.51 11.13
11.75
12.15
10.33
10.93
11.54
12.27	12.32
10,43	10.47
11.04	11.09
11.66	11.70
SKILLED TRADES 15. Maintenance
30.	Leader Maintenance
12.75	12.95	13.15
13.70
59
Start
35.	In. ,rial Millwright Apprentice
Year	1(75%)	11.33
Year	2	(80%)	12.09
Year	3	(85%)	12.84
Year 4	(90%)	13.60
Year	5	(95%)	14.36
36.	Certified	Industrial Millwright	14,71
(Cert. Lead Hand 110 cents)
43.	Maintenance	Helper	11.21
Night premiums: Afternoon shift .40 Midnight shift .40
Subject to above Progressive Hiring rates:
85% first 6 months employment 90%. next 6 months employment 95% next 6 months employment 100% after 18 months employment (Exclusive of Skilled Trades)
Sen in 45 W.I) Group After Sen in Group
14.91 15.11 11.31
Group
Schedule 3A — Plant No. 2 Labour Rates by Occupational Groups effective July 4,1992
Direct Labour
85%	90%	95%
1.	Pool Light (drill set-up.50) (Cells+ .10)
2.	Pool Heavy
3.	Extruder Set-Up & Operate
7.	Corner Mould Operator
8.	Mill Warm-Up 11. Dipping
18. Inspect & Pack
20.	Pressing Tread Stock
21.	Buffing & Packing
22.	Flock Adhesive & Abraider
8.44	8.94	9.43
8.40	8.89	9.39
8.50	9.00	9,50
8.34	8.83	9.32
8.54	9.04	9.55
8.45	8.95	9.44
8.30	8.78	9.27
8.74	9.25	9.77
8.74	9.25	9.77
8.50	9.00	9.50
Rate
100%
9.93 9.88
10.00
9.81
10.05
9.94 9.76
10.28
10,28
10.00
60
U) W OJ K) lo to to h.-> K) N> — O'OCC-OO'^'W
Group
. Ba 1 Line . FIock i inishing Cell , Door Weatherstrip . Flock Take-off . Microwave Take-off , Ballitini Take-off . SDM Finishing Cell . Lead Hand - Ballitini Line . Hot Air & Salt Bath Finishing
<V%
8.50
8.59
8.59
8.33
8.33
8.33 8.47
8.51
8.33
Rate
90%	9.5%	100%
9.00	9.50	10,00
9.10	9.60	10.11
9.10	9.60	10.11
8.82	9.31	9.80
8.82	9.31	9.80
8.82	9.31	9.80
8.97	9.47	9.97
9.01	9.51	10.01
8.82	9.31	9.80
Indirect Labour
Stan
10. Working Job Control
85%
90%
95%
12. Receiving, Shipping, Stock Handling. Lift Truck Operator
95%
13.	Material Handlers, Checkers, Lift
Truck Operator	85%
90%
95%
14,	Inspector Quality Control
85%
90%
95%
17. Teaching & Repairs
85%
90%
95%
24. Roll Form Set-up
85%;
90%
95%
12.07
10.26
10.86 11.47
12.18
10.35
10.96
11.57 12,01 10.21 10.81 11.41 12.19
10.36
10.97
11.58
12.07 10.26 10.86 11.47
Sen. in 45 W.D. Croup After Sen. in Croup
12.17	12.27
10.34	10.43
10.95	11.04
11.56	11.66
12.28	12.38
10.44	10.52
11.05	11.14
11.67	11.76
12.06	12.11
10.25	10.29
10.85	10.90
11.46 11.50
12.29	12.39
10.45	10.53
11.06	11.15
11.67	11.77 11.94 10.15 10.75 11.34
12.22	12.38
10.39	10.52
11.00 11.14 11.61	11.76
61
Start
37. La, ih^Program Assistant
85%
90%
95%
SKILLED TRADES
15.	Maintenance
16,	Leader Maintenance
34.	Maintenance Electrician
35.	Industrial Millwright Apprentice
Year 1 (75%) Year 2 (80%) Year 3 (85%) Year 4 (90%) Year 5 (95%)
36.	Certified Industrial Millwright (Cert. Lead Hand t 10 cents)
43. Maintenance Helper Night premiums: Afternoon shift .40 Midnight shift ,40
Subject to above Progressive Hiring rates: 85% first 6 months employment 90%' next 6 months employment 95%’ next 6 months employment 100% after 18 months employment (Exclusive of Skilled Trades)
12.11
10.29
10.90
11.50
12.54
13.49 14.75
11.18
11.92
12.67
13.41
14.15
14.50
Sen.m 45W.IX Group After Sen in Group
12.25
10.41
11.02
11.64
12,74	12.94
14.95	15.15
14.70	14.90
11.10
Schedule 3B — Plant No. 2 Labour Rates by Occupational Groups effective October 1,1993 Direct Labour
Group
85%	90%	95%
1.	Pool Light (drill set-up .50) (Cells + 10)
2.	Pool Heavy
3 Extruder Set-Up & Operate
8.52	9.02	9.52
8.47	8.97	9.47
8.58	9.08	9.58
Rate
100%
10.02
9.97
10.09
62
Group
I.	Ci Mould Operator 8. Mill \Varm-Up
II.	Dipping
18. Inspect & Pack
20.	Pressing Tread Stock
21.	Buffing & Packing
22.	Flock Adhesive & Abraidcr
23.	Ballitini Line
25.	Flock Finishing Cell
26.	Door Weatherstrip
27.	Flock Take-off
28.	Microwave Take-off
29.	Ballitini Take-off
30.	SDM Finishing Cell
31.	Lead Hand - Ballitini Line
32.	Hot Air & Salt Bath Finishing
Rale
R5%	90%	95%	100%
8.41	8.91	9.40	9.90
8.62	9.13	9.63	1.0.14
8.52	9.03	9.53	10.03
8.37	8.86	9.36	9.85
8.86	9.38	9.90	10.42
8.86	9.38	9.90	10.42
8.58	9.08	9.58	10.09
8.58	9.08	9.58	10.09
8.67	9.18	9.69	10.20
8.67	9.18	9.69	10.20
8.41	8.90	9.39	9.89
8.41	8.90	9.39	9.89
8.41	8.90	9.39	9.89
8.55	9.05	9.56	10.06
8.58	9.09	9.59	10.10
8.41	8.90	9.39	9.89
Indirect iMbour
IO. Working Job Control
85%
90%
95%
12.	Receiving, Shipping, Stock Handling, Lift Truck Operator
85%
90%
95%
13.	Material Handlers, Checkers, Lift
Truck Operator	85%
90%
95%
14.	Inspector Quality Control
85%
90%
95%
Skirt	Sen. in	45 W.D.
Group After Sen. in Group
12.18	12.28	12.38
10.35	10.44	10.52
10.96	11.05	1.14
11.57	11.67	1.76
12.29	12,39	2:49
10.45	10.53	0.62
11.06	11.15	1.24
11.67	11.77	1.86
12.12	12.17	2.22
10.30	10.34	10.39
10.91	10.95	11.00
11.51	11.56	11.61
12.30	12.40	12.50
10.45	10.54	10.62
11.07	11.16	11.25
11.68	11.78	11.87
63
Start
17. 1i /ing & Repairs
85%
Y0%
95%
24, Roll Form Set-up
•	85%
90%
95%
37. Launch Program Assistant
85%
90%
95%
SKILLED TRADES
15.	Maintenance
16.	Leader Maintenance
34.	Maintenance Electrician
35.	Industrial Millwright Apprentice
Year I (75%) Year 2 (80%) Year 3 (85%)
Year 4 (90%) Year 5 (95%)
36, Certified Industrial Millwright (Cert. Lead Hand + 10 cents)
43. Maintenance Helper Night premiums: Afternoon shift .40 Midnight shift .40
Subject to above Progressive Hiring rates; 85% first 6 months employment 90% next 6 months employment 95% next 6 months employment 100% after 18 months employment (Exclusive of Skilled Trades)
12.18
10.35
10.96
11.57
12.22
10.39
11.00
11.61
12.65
13.60 14.86
11.26 12.01 12.76 13.51 14.26
14.61
11.11
Sen m 45 WD Group After Sen in Group
12.05 10.24 10.84 11.45 12.33	12.49
10.48 10.62 11,10 11.24 11.71	11.86
12.36 10.51 11.12 11.74
12.85	13.05
15.06	15.26
14.81	15.01
11.21
64
Schedule 3C — Plant No. 2
Labour Rates by Occupational Groups effective October 1,1994
Group
Direct Labour„,
OJ h
1.	Pool Light (drill set-up ,50) (Cells 1.10)
2.	Pool Heavy
3.	Extruder Set-Up & Operate
7.	Corner Mould Operator
8.	Mill Warm-Up II. Dipping
18. Inspect & Pack
20.	Pressing Tread Stock
21.	Buffing & Packing
22.	Flock Adhesive & Abraider
23.	Ballitini Line
25.	Flock Finishing Cell
26.	Door Weatherstrip
27.	Flock Take-off
28.	Microwave Take-off
29.	Ballitini Take-off
30.	SDM Finishing Cell
31.	Lead Hand - Ballitini Line
32.	Hot Air & Salt Bath Finishing
8.58 8.54
8.64 8.48 8.69
8.59 8.44
8.92
8.92
8.64
8.64
8.74
8.74
8.47
8.47
8.47 8.62
8.65
8.47
Indirect Labour
YO%
9.09 9.04
9.15 8.98 9.20
9.10 8.94
9.45
9.45
9.15
9.15
9.25
9.25
8.97
8.97
8.97 9.13
9.16
8.97
Start
10. Working	Job Control	12.28
85%	10.44
90%	11.05
95%	11.67
12.	Receiving, Shipping, Stock Handling,
Lift Truck Operator	12.39
85%	10.53
90%	11.15
95%	11.77
13.	Material	Handlers,	Checkers, Lift	12.22
Truck Operator	85%	10.39
90%	11.00
95%	11.61
Rale
95%	100%
9.59	10.10
9.55	10.05
9.66	10.17
9.48	9.98
9.71	10.22
9.60	10.11
9.43	9.93
9.97	10.50
9.97	10.50
9.66	10.17
9.66	10.17
9.77	10.28
9.77	10.28
9.47	9.97
9.47	9.97
9.47	9.97 9.63 10.14
9.67	10.18
9.47	9.97
Sen. in 45 W.D. Group After Sen. in Group
12.38	12.48
10.52	10.61
11.14	11.23
11.76	11.86
12.49	12.59
10.62	10.70
11.24 11.33 11.86	11.96
12.27	12.32
10.43	10.47
11.04	11.09
11.66	11.70
65
Shirt
14. In ctor Quality Control
'	85%
90%
95%
17. T eaching & Repairs
85% 90% ■ 95%
24. Roll Form Set-up
85%
90%
95%
37. Launch Program Assistant
85%
90%
95%
SKILLED TRADES
■15. Maintenance
16. Leader Maintenance
3 4. Maintenance Electrician
3	5. Industrial Millwright Apprentice
Year 1 (75%) Year 2 (80%) Year 3 (85%) Year 4 (90%) Year 5 (95%)
36. Certified Industrial Millwright (Cert. Lead Hand + 10 cents)
4	3. Maintenance Helper
Night premiums: Afternoon shift .40 Midnight shift .40
Subject to above Progressive Hiring rates: 85%; first 6 months employment 90%' next 6 months employment 95%- next 6 months employment 100%. after 18 months employment (Exclusive of Skilled Trades)
12.40
10.54
11.16
11.78
12.28
10.44
11.05
11.67
12.32
10,47
11.09
11.70
12.75
13.70 14.96
11.33
12.09
12.84
13.60
14.36
14.71
11.21
66
Sen in 45 W D Group A fter Sen in Group
12.50	12.60
10.62	10.71
11.25	11.34
11.87 11.97 12.15 10.33 10.93 11.54 12.43 12.59 10.56 10.70 11.19 11.33 11.81	11.96
12.46 10.59 11.21 11.84
12.95	13.15
15.16	15.36
14.91	15.11
11.31
SCHEDULE 4 INCENTIVE PAY PLAN
1.	TYPE OF PLAN
This incentive pay plan is designed, hut not guaranteed, to provide the average qualified employee working on a time-studied direct labour production job operating under standard conditions the opportunity to earn approximately 20% over the base rate for the job by applying reasonable proportionate effort, attention and care to thejob. It is understood that since there is no such thing as an average employee, some employees may earn in excess of 20% while others may earn less than 20%. The incentive pay plan is known as a "100%" or "standard hour plan." For each 1% increase in production over standard the employee receives a 1 % increase over the base rate. There is no ceiling on earnings.
2.	INCENTIVE STANDARD
The standard is expressed in terms of standard hours required to produce ! 000 units, such as pieces, pounds or feet. It measures how many units an average qualified employee can produce under standard conditions in one hour at a normal pace. It includes time allowances for miscellaneous work elements, short delays which are unavoidable even when the job is running properly and allowances for rest and personal needs. An employee earns incentive pay by producing more than standard. The incentive pay is computed on the base rate as set forth in Schedules 2 and 3.
For example, if the standard is 100 pieces per hour, i.e. 10.0 standard hours per thousand pieces, the average qualified employee, by applying reasonable proportionate extra effort, attention and care to thejob, should, working as provided in paragraph 1, turn out 960 pieces in an 8 hour shift. He will then have earned 9.6 standard hours.
960. x 10 standard hours = 9.6 hours 1000 pieces
If the base rate on thejob is $3.72 per hour, his earnings for the shift will be $35.71 (3.72 x 9.6 standard hours), $5.95 more than he would have earned at the base rate.
67
3.	EFFECT OF OTHER PAY POLICIES
' Overtime
i lie incentive pay is computed on the base rate only. Overtime premium is paid in addition to the incentive rate. In the above example, had he worked 8 hours on Saturday, he would have earned $50.59 ($3.72 x 9.6 standard hours, which is $35.71 plus 1/2 of the $3.72 which is $1.86 x 8 hours worked = $14.88).
(b)	Shift Differential
Shift differential is not included in computing incentive
pay.
(c)	Vacation Pay
The incentive pay increases the employee's vacation pay because it is included in "gross earnings."
(dj Holiday pay, call-in, etc.
The incentive pay does not affect holiday pay, call-in pay and inventory work which are paid at the employee's base rate.
4.	BASE KATE GUARANTEED
In all cases the employee's earnings are at least the number of hours worked times the base rate of the job. For example, if the standard is 10 standard hours per 1000 pieces and the employee turns out 700 pieces in an 8 hour shift, he has earned only 7 standard hours.
700 x 10 standard hours = 7 hours 1000 pieces
In such case, if the base rate of the job is $3.72 per hour, his earnings for the shift are $29.76 ($3.72 x 8 hours), not $26.04 ($3.72x7 standard hours).
5.	INCENTIVE EARNINGS PAID BY JOB
If an employee works on two incentive jobs which are operating properly for four hours each on one shift at a base rate of $3.72 per hour and produces 5 standard hours on the firstjob and 4.6 standard hours on the second job, he earns 9.6 standard hours for the shift. His earnings for the shift will be $35.71 ($3.72 x 9.6 standard hours). If on the secondjob he earns only 3.5 standard hours, he is paid 9 standard hours for the shift. His earnings for the shift are then $33.48 ($3.72 x 9 standard hours),
68
6.	PAYMENT WHEN NOT ON INCENTIVE
l 'ob not covered by incentive
V ..en an employee works on a job which is not covered by an incentive standard he is paid the base rate of the job. Assume an employee works on two jobs four hours each at a base rate of $3,72 per hour. The first job is on incentive and the employee produced 4,8 standard hours, while the secondjob is not on incentive. His earnings for the day are $32,74 ($3.72 x 4.8 standard hours plus $3.72 x 4 hours).
(b)	Downtime
Downtime is when the employee is unable to produce at all because of lack of material, machine breakdown, waiting for setup, etc. In such cases, the operator shall ring out and contact his foreman who will authorize the applicable downtime when the job is re-started or the operator is reassigned, if such downtime is three (3) minutes or more. Downtime is paid at the base rale of the job.
Assume an employee works on a job for 7.3 hours producing 9 standard hours and then encounters .5 hour of downtime because the job was "out of stock". If the base rate is $3.72, his earnings for the day will be $35.34 ($3.72 x 9 standard hours plus $3.72 x .5 hours).
(c)	Non-Standard
If the employee is unable to produce enough units to earn the equal of the base rate because of poor material or improperly operating equipment, the operation is on non-standard.
The employee encountering such difficulty will immediately contacl-his foreman. If, in thejudgement of the foreman, the incentive standard does not apply, the foreman will authorize the employee to work on a non-standard basis. The employee will then be paid the base rate for the pieces produced during this time until the trouble is corrected. All non-standard time cards will be authorized by the foreman and a time study man before the nonstandard period is granted.
For example, suppose the employee works 5 hours on incentive at $3.72 base rate, producing 6 standard hours, and then has trouble for 3 hours. The foreman and time study man authorize the 3 hours on non-standard. His earnings for the shift will be $33.48 ($3.72 x 6 standard hours plus $3.72 x 3 hours).
69
7.	DEVELOPMENT OF INCENTIVE STANDARD ) Standard time
t he standard time per piece produced is the length of time required by an average qualified operator working at normal pace and under standard conditions to produce one piece. This time is determined by stopwatch time study observation or standard data derived front time study in the company's Stratford plants.
(b)	Allowance for miscellaneous work and short unavoidable delays
In each job there are miscellaneous work elements, such as obtaining stock, handling scrap pieces, disposing of finished work and miscellaneous delays inherent in the job. The normal time required to perform such work is added to and becomes a part of the standard time per piece.
Also, an allowance of 3% is made to cover short unavoidable delays which occur irregularly, such as interruptions by oilers, inspectors and instructions by foremen.
(c)	Allowance for fatigue
An allowance of 5% is included in the standard for fatigue.
(d)	Allowance for personal needs
An allowance of 6.25% is included in the standard for personal needs and end-of-shift workplace cleanup.
(e)	Machine opportunity allowance
On somejobs the employee's production is limited by the machine. In such cases, in addition to the other applicable allowances, a "machine opportunity allowance" is added to the standard machine time to provide the employee working as provided in paragraph 1 the opportunity to earn 20% incentive pay.
(f)	Scrap allowance
In some operations there is a certain amount of unavoidable scrap. Since the incentive pay plan pays for good pieces only, the normal time lost making and handling scrap which cannot be avoided by close attention on the part of the operator is added to and becomes part of the standard time per piece.
The operator turns in his production separately — good pieces and scrap pieces.
70
8.	INSTALLATION OF STANDARDS
c Company will establish incentive standards when and where . considers it practical and economical so to do. Employees being time studied will be told why the study is being made. The result of the incentive standard will be given to the employee involved. Incentive pay on the incentive standards starts on the date the standard is installed. All current rates will be listed in routing books and made readily available to employees.
The Union may at any reasonable time and from time to time have a time study expert attend at the Company's plants 1 or 2 to inquire into the particulars of any established and installed incentive standard and the Company shall furnish all reasonable and relevant information necessary to enable the expert to complete the said inquiry.
9.	CHANGE IN STANDARDS
Established incentive standards will not be altered except because of a change in material, equipment, method of manufacturing, a demonstrable clerical error or by mutual agreement, Only those elements affected ty the change will be revised.
10.	SUBSTITUTE AND ADDED OPERATIONS Substitute and added operations are normally paid at the
base rate. However, if the quantity of parts to be produced, in the opinion of the Company; justifies the installation of an incentive standard, it will be installed.
11.	TEMPORARY INCENTIVE STANDARDS Temporary incentive standards in accordance with paragraph I may be installed when it is impracticable to use established standards because of job conditions varying due to equipment, material, process or method employed. Temporary incentive standards are applicable to those jobs that would eventually have established standards and are applicable for a time not exceeding 30 days ofjob operation.
Temporary incentive standards will be listed in the routing books and marked as temporary by suffixing the rate with 3,
12.	The within described plan shall be subject to the grievance procedure.
71
13.	In establishing an incentive standard for a group, the Conr ' will install a group incentive standard base on the con-trollii-_ ,r limiting operation.
Each member of the group will receive the same percentage incentive pay.
Revisions of incentive group standards may he made from time to time pursuant to paragraph 9. Such revised standards shall be based on whichever operation, following the revision, controls or limits production.
14.	The payment codes under the incentive pay plan are as follows:
Code I — Estimated standard — no incentive pay.
Code 2 — Permanent standard — incentive pay.
Code 3 — Temporary standard — incentive pay.
Code 4 — Non-Standard Condition — incentive pay on deviation where applicable
15.	Where there is a dispute concerning the production standard, the Company will present a substantiation and a copy of all details involved in the setting of the production standards, to the Union.
The Company will provide the Union with any changes made to incentive standards within 48 hours prior to implementation.
These shall include all facts, data, time studies, (allowed and disallowed time) or any information pertaining to the operation that is considered pertinent and will clear up the dispute.
If requested by the operator, the Industrial Engineer who completed the study will supply the operator with the following:
1)	The exact total time in which the time study took place.
2)	The exact total time (minus strike outs) of. the time
study.
3)	The effort rating per element.
4)	The number of pieces time studied.
It will be the intent of the Company and the Union to continue in a harmonious relationship to solve any problems in this regard.
72
RETIREMENT BENEFIT PLAN AND MONEY PURCHASE PLAN entered into
as of the 1st day of October 1992 between
STANDARD PRODUCTS (CANADA)LIMITED and
THE CANADIAN BROTHERHOOD OF RAILWAY, TRANSPORT AND GENERAL WORKERS LOCAL 451
Affiliated with the C.L.C.
The International Transport Workers PLANTS NO. I AN1) 2
INDEX
Article	Title	Page
Money Purchase Plan
I
II
III
IV
V
VI
VII
VIII
Purpose .......................
Interpretations................
Financing......................
Credited Service ..............
Retirement Benefits ...........
Eligibility....................
General Provisions.............
Modifications and Termination
75
75
11
78
78
86
86
89
73
MONEY PURCHASE PLAN 'tie retirement benefit plan will be converted to a mont, purchase plan effective October 1, 1992, allowing for the Company to contribute on a monthly basis as follows:
Employees hired January 1,1990 or later	$30.00
between Jan. 1,1990 and Dec.	31,1989	$40.00
between Jan. I, 1975 and Dec.	31, 1979	$45,00
between Jan. 1,1970 and Dec.	31,1974	$50.00
Prior to 1970 (back only to Jan. 1, 1966)	$60.00
The plan would allow for the employee to contribute $10.00 per month to the plan with a company match of $10.00 per month. The options would be available to commence and terminate each year of this agreement at September 30th. The employee contributions would be made through payroll deductions which would be matched by the Company.
An employee would become a member of the plan after attainment of his/her master seniority.
Anyone retiring during the term of this agreement would be guaranteed no less than $15,00 per month per year of service under the Defined Pension Plan with all rules of early retirement being applicable.
The rules governing this plan will be available in a separate plan text tu be formulated by the Company and the Union during the term of this agreement.
A long term disability program will also be implemented to cover prolonged disability beyond 32 weeks. Maximum of $1000/month to be funded as follows:
a)	The Canada Pension Plan
b)	The Standard Products Disability Plan
This would run until age 65 or until no longer disabled. This retirement benefit plan agreement is made and entered into as of the first day of October 1992 between the Company and the Union.
The Company as used herein means Standard Products (Canada) Limited with respect to its bargaining unit at Plant #1,
1030 Erie Street, Stratford, Ontario and its Plant #2 at 703 Douro Street. Stratford. Ontario.
74
The "Union" as used herein means Union No. 451 of The Can, 'in Brotherhood of Railway, Transport and General Wot ,
ARTICLE I — PURPOSE
1.01	This retirement benefit plan (hereinafter referred to as the agreement) is hereby established for the purpose of providing pension benefits, as described herein, subject to obtaining and retaining such approval of the retirement benefit plan by the relevant tax authorities as the Company may deem necessary to establish that the Company is entitled to deduct the amount of its contributions to the pension fund as an expense before taxes under the provisions of the Income 'fax Act, or any other applicable tax laws, as now in effect or as hereafter amended or adopted.
1.02	Subject to the provisions of this agreement, the Company shall determine the manner in which the Plan shall be administered.
ARTICLEII — INTERPRETATIONS
2.01	The term "employee" means any employee of the Company who is a member of the bargaining unit as defined in the applicable sections of the Collective Labour Agreement, and meets the applicable eligibility requirements of this Agreement.
2.02	The term "pensioner" means a person who has retired and has become and remains eligible for a pension under this agreement.
2.03	The term "physician" means a medical practitioner who is registered under the Medical Act of the Province of Ontario or such similar statute or law as governs the practice of medicine.
2.04	The term "Collective Labour Agreement" shall mean the current Collective Labour Agreement between the Company and the Union as may be amended or supplemented, or any successor agreement.
2.05	The term "layoff1 shall mean the same as the definition of layoff in the Collective Labour Agreement.
2.06	The term "normal retirement date" means the first day of the month next following an employee's 65th birthday.
75
2.07	The lenn "credited service" means the service of an emp1 *e which has been and remains credited to him in accordant ,th the provisions of Article IV.
2.08	The term "continuous service" means the service of an employee with the Company as accumulated and retained under the Collective Labour Agreement.
2.09	The term "effective date" means October 1, 1992.
2.10	The term "totally and permanently disabled" means disabled hy bodily injury or disease (other than disability) which —
(i)	Resulted from or consists of chronic alcoholism or self-induced addiction to narcotics, or,
(ii)	was contracted, suffered or incurred while the employee was engaged in, or resulted from his having engaged in a criminal enterprise, or,
(iii)	resulted from willfully self-inflicted injury, or,
(iv)	can be established as due to service in the armed forces of any country.
Which in the certified opinion of a physician who is selected by or satisfactory to the Company will presumably, permanently, continuously and wholly prevent the employee, during the remainder of his life, from meeting the job requirements of any job covered by the Collective Labour Agreement.
2.1	I "Actuary" shall mean a person, being a fellow of the Canadian Institute of Actuaries, appointed by the Company for the Corporation including such a person.
2.12	"Commuted value" shall mean the actuarial present value of the pension or other benefit to which an employee, or his spouse or designated beneficiary, if applicable, is or will become entitled and which confirms to generally accepted actuarial principles and is accepted under the Pension Benefits Act, 1987 (Ontario)and Regulation thereunder.
2.13	"Spouse" shall mean a person of the opposite sex who
(A)	is married to the employee, or
(B)	is not married to the employee hut has been living with the employee in a conjugal relationship,
(1) continuously for a period of three years or more,
76
or
(II) in a relationship of some permanence, if such indiv:	d and the employee are the natural or adoptive parents of
a chi, ,oth as defined in the Family Law Act, 1986,
ARTICLE III — FINANCING
3.01	PENSION FUND
The Company shall establish a pension fund for the purpose of providing the pension benefits under this agreement. Such fund shall be either a trust fund, or an insured fund, or a combination thereof. The Company shall pay currently into the Pension Fund, such amounts as the actuary, retained by the Company for the purposes of the plan, shall certify to be necessary to provide the current service costs and for amortization within the period prescribed by law of an unfunded liability or experience deftcicn-!■ cy after taking into consideration the assets of the pension fund and such other factors as may be deemed relevant. The Company at its option may, from time to time, pay into the Pension Fund additional amounts.
3.02	DISBURSEMENTS FROM PENSION FUND
The Pension Fund shall be used in accordance with this agreement, to pay such pensions as arc payable under this agreement.
3.03	PENSION PAYABLE SOLELY FROM
PENSION FUND
The pension which shall be payable in accordance with the provisions of this agreement shall be paid solely from the Pension Fund and each employee or pensioner or other person who shall claim a right to any payment under this agreement shall be entitled to look only to the pension fund for such payment, and no liability for the payment of pensions under this agreement shall be imposed upon the Company, or the officers, directors or stockholders of the Company.
3.04	NONALIENATION OF BENEFITS
The pensions payable from the Pension Fund shall be deemed alimentary and for the personal maintenance of the pensioners and shall not be subject in any manner to anticipation, alienation, sale, transfer, assignment, pledge, encumbrance or
77
charge, or 10 attachment or legal process for debts of pensioners except such an extent as may be required by law.
ARTICLE IV — CREDITED SERVICE
4.01	An employee's credited service shall mean his years and completed months of continuous service acquired after January 1, 1966, and retained and accumulated as provided for in the Collective Labour Agreement, subject to the following:
(j) An employee who has been on lay-off, after the effective date of this agreement, will accumulate credited service for time lost up to one year during any period of lay-off, but the time will he credited only when he returns to active employment at the end of the period.
(jj) An employee who has been on an official paid leave of absence for other than work with another employer or with the Union or its affiliates will accumulate credited service for time lost up to one year during one absence, but the time will be credited only when he returns to active employment at the end of the period.
4.02	An employee will lose his credited service, unless otherwise provided for in this agreement, when his employment with ■ the Company is terminated for any reason or when he retires on a monthly pension under this agreement.
4.03	The records of the Company shall be presumed to be correct with respect to dates covering term of employment, nonemployment. or disability retirement of an employee, pensioner or applicant for pension, unless shown beyond a reasonable doubt to be incorrect. An applicant for pension or pensioner shall prove his age by evidence satisfactory to the Company.
ARTICLE V — RETIREMENT AND DEATH BENEFITS
5.01	NORMAL RETIREMENT
(A)	An employee who retires on or after the effective date of this agreement, and who has attained his normal retirement date and has 2 or more years of continuous service, shall be eligible for a monthly pension upon his retirement. Such monthly pension shall consist of an amount payable for life of $8.00, multi-
78
plied by the number of years of his credited service accumulated bctw January 1, 1966 and his normal retirement date if that date jn or before September 30, 1982, In no event shall any payment be made after the death of the pensioner unless he shall have elected an optional benefit under Section 5.03 of this agreement.
The monthly pension for an employee who retires after September 30, 1982 shall consist of an amount payable for life of $10.00 multiplied by the number of years of his credited service accumulated between January 1, 1966 and September 30, 1983.
The monthly pension for an employee who retires after September 30, 1983 shall consist of an amount payable for life of $12.00 multiplied by the number of years of his credited service accumulated between January I, 1966 and his normal retirement date.
The monthly pension for an employee who retires after September 30, 1988 shall consist of an amount payable for life of $13.00 multiplied by the number of years of his credited service accumulated between January 1, 1966 and his normal retirement date.
The monthly pension for an employee who retires after September 30,1992 shall be a guaranteed amount payable for life of $15.00 multiplied by the number of years of his credited service accumulated between January 1, 1966 and his normal retirement date.
In no event shall any payment he made after the death of the pensioner unless he shall have elected an optional benefit under Section 5.03 of this agreement.
(B)	The absence of an employee from active employment at any time when he would be eligible for normal retirement under this Agreement shall not preclude his retirement at that time without return to employment, provided that such absence is due to disability or sick leave, layoff or other Company approved leave of absence.
5.02	DISABILITY RETIREMENT PENSION
(A) . An employee who becomes totally and permanently disabled prior to his normal retirement date and has 10 or more years of continuous service shall be eligible for a disability pension. Such pension shall be calculated under Section 5.01
79
(B)	The disability pension shall become payable, if he shal' ’ on he living, on the first day of the month next following the ,1 of: (i) the date on which he shall have filed an application for such pension with the Company on a form supplied by the Company; (ii) the date on which his disability retirement shall have commenced; or (iii) the date on which he ceased to receive remuneration from the Company of draw weekly indemnity benefits under the Welfare Benefit Plan Agreement, and it shall be payable on the first day of each month thereafter up to and including the earlier of the month in which his disability retirement shall end as provided in this Article; or, the month in which his death occurs, unless he shall have elected, or have been required to elect, an optional benefit under Article 5.03.
(C)	An employee applying for a disability pension shall, if requested by the Company, submit to one or more physical examinations by a physician or physicians selected by the Company in order that the Company may determine whether such employee is totally and permanently disabled and thus entitled, if otherwise qualified, to a disability pension.
(D> Any pensioner on disability retirement shall be required to submit to a physical examination at any reasonable time and place during such retirement up to his normal retirement date for the purpose of determining his condition, whenever such examination shall be requested by the Company, but not more often than twice in any calendar year after total and permanent disability has been established. An employee or pensioner who refuses to submit to any physical examination properly requested in accordance with the provisions of this Section 5.02 may have his disability pension suspended until he does submit to such physical examination.
(E)	If, after his retirement on disability pension but before his normal retirement date, a pensioner shall cease to be totally and permanently disabled, his disability pension shall cease.
(F)	If a pensioner’s disability pension ceases pursuant to the provisions of the preceding sub-section, 5.02 (E), the Company will re-employ the pensioner in accordance with his seniority existing at the date of his retirement if the Company has a job available for him that he can do to the satisfaction of the Company.
80
If the Company does not rchire (he pensioner and the only reason r " not doing so is because the pensioner does not have the ability perform the available job to the satisfaction of the Company, then the pensioner's disability pension will continue in accordance with sub-section5.02 (E).
(G)	Any employee who was retired on a disability pension in accordance with Section 5.02 of this agreement and who is re-employed upon the termination of his disability shall, upon his subsequent retirement under any section of this agreement, be entitled to a pension based on his credited service accumulated on his disability retirement date increased by any credited service attributable to his service subsequent to his date of re-employment.
5.03	OPTIONAL PENSION BENEFIT
(A) NORMAL FORM OF PENSION The normal form of pension under the agreement is payable for the lifetime of the employee.
03) AUTOMATIC FORM OF PENSION Any employee who has a spouse at the time of pension commencement must take his pension in ajoint and survivor form under which the pension benefit shall continue to the spouse after the death of the employee at the rate of 60% of the pension which in payment to the employee immediately prior to his death and shall continue to be paid for the lifetime of the spouse. In this event, the amount of pension payable to the employee shall be reduced such that the value of his pension benefit shall be actuarially equivalent to the normal form of pension.
Any other form of pension provided herein may be elected if the employee and his spouse both waive the entitlement to this joint and survivor form of payment in the prescribed form or by means of a certified copy of a domestic contract as defined under the Family Law Act. To be valid, the waiver must be delivered to the Company within the 12-month period immediately preceding the commencement of payments.
(C)	OPTIONAL FORMS OF PENSION Subject to Article 5.03 (B), an employee may elect an optional form of pension by notifying the Company in writing prior to his date of retirement of the optional type of pension he wishes to
81
receive. The amount of pension payable to an employee under an op1’ il form shall be reduced such that the value of his optional
pc'i ii benefit shall be actuarially equivalent to the normal form cf' pension. Any election of an optional type of pension may be revoked or altered to another optional type if done in writing prior to the commencement of his pension. Any option elected becomes binding upon the commencement date of the pension.
The optional forms of pension available are as follows:
(i)	LIFE — GUARANTEED FIVE YEARS
This type of pension provides payments for the entire lifetime of the employee and guarantees that, should the employee die after his pension has commenced but before he has received 60 monthly payments thereof, the payments shall be continued to his beneficiary or estate until 60 monthly payments in all have been made,
(ii)	LIFE — GUARANTEED TEN YEARS
This type of pension provides payments for the entire lifetime of the employee and guarantees that, should the employee die after his pension has commenced but before he has received 120 monthly payments thereof, the payments shall be continued to his beneficiary or estate until 120 monthly payments in all have been made.
(iii)	LIFE — GUARANTEED FIFTEEN YEARS
This type of pension provides payments for the entire lifetime of the employee and guarantees that, should the employee die after his pension has commenced but before he has received 180 monthly payments thereof, the payments shall be continued to his beneficiary or estate until 180 monthly payments in all have been made.
(iv)	JOINT AND SURVIVORSHIP PLAN
(a)	A joint and survivor pension which shall continue to tho joint annuitant after the death of the employee in the same amount as received by the.employee immediately prior to the date of his death; or
(b)	A joint and survivor pension which shall continue to the joint annuitant after the death of the employee at 75% of the amount as received by the employee immediately prior to the date of his death.
82
In the event of the death of the joint annuitant before the commencement date of the pension, the option will be cancelled and pension will become payable to the employee in the normal lortn. In such case, the employee may elect another option in writing prior to the date of commencement of his pension.
5.04	DEFERRED VESTED PENSION
Any employee whose services are terminated prior to his normal retirement date and who has 2 or more years c£ continuous service at the date of termination of employment shall be entitled to a deferred vested pension calculated in accordance with Article
5.01	of this agreement, as in effect on the last day of active employment, and payable from his normal retirement date.
Any employee whose services arc terminated on or after January I, 1988 and prior to his normal retirement date and who has 2 or more years of credited service hut less than 10 years of continuous service at the date of termination of employment shall be entitled to deferred vested pension calculated in accordance with Article 5.01 of this agreement, as in effect on the last day of active employment, reduced by his accmed pension benefit as at December 31, 1986, and payable from his normal retirement date.
A person entitled to a deferred vested pension benefit shall make written application to the Company not earlier than sixty days prior to the commencement of such pension. Upon application made later than normal retirement date, retroactive payments will be made for the elapsed months after normal retirement date.
An employee whose services are terminated on or after January I, 1988 and who is not entitled to the immediate payment cf a pension benefit shall have the right to elect that, in lieu of his deferred vested pension, an amount equal to the commuted value of his deferred vested pension be paid out of the pension fund in a lump sum:
(i)	To the pension fund of another pension plan, providing the administrator of the other pension plan agrees to accept the payment;
(ii)	Into the employee's registered retirement savings plan (RRSP), providing the institution receiving the funds agrees to administer the funds in accordance with the requirements of the Pension Benefits Act, 1987;or
83
(iii)	To a Canadian Life Insurance Company for the purchase N' a life annuity, such life annuity not to commence more than years before his normal retirement date.
An employee whose services are terminated on or after January I. 1988 shall receive written notice of his entitlements under the agreement and the options available to him within 30 days of his termination of service or within 30 days of the Company's notification of his ' termination of service, whichever is later.
3.05	EARLY RETIREMENT
An employee who has attained age 55 may retire early under this agreement at any time prior to his normal retirement date and receive the pension benefit set out in Article 5.01, reduced such that the value of the early retirement pension is actuarially equivalent to the value of the pension payable from normal retirement dale.
An employee who has attained age 55, has completed 10 or more years of continuous service, may retire early under this agreement at any time prior to his normal retirement date and receive the pension benefit set out in Article 5,01, reduced by 4/10 of 1 (7c for each month by which his early retirement date precedes his normal retirement date.
An employee whose service is terminated on or after January I. 1988 and who is entitled to a deferred vested pension payable from (he fund on his normal retirement date may request that his pension benefit commence on the first day of any month after his attainment of age 55 and prior to his normal retirement date. In such event, the pension shall be reduced such that the value of the early retirement pension is actuarially equivalent to the value of the deferred vested pension.
5.06	METHOD OF PAYMENT
The Company may adopt such procedures as it shall find convenient with respect to the payment of pensions where the amount payable is less than $10.00 per month and may pay any such pension quarterly or annually.
5.07	PENSIONER UNABLE TO MANAGE HIS AFFAIRS
If the Company finds in its opinion, that any pensioner to whom a pension is payable- from the pension fund is unable to
84
manage his affairs because of illness or accident, any payment due (unlr ' prior claim therefore shall have been made by a duly appo, J guardian, committee or other legal representative) may be paid to the spouse, a child, a parent or a brother or sister of the pensioner or to any person deemed by the Company to have incurred expense for such pensioner. However, the Company shall endeavour to give effect to the wishes of the pensioner in this respect when such wishes shall have been expressed in writing by the pensioner before he shall have become unable to manage his affairs. Any such payment shall be a payment fur the account of the pensioner and shall be a complete discharge of any liability under this agreement therefore.
5.08	BENEFITS ON DEATH
Upon the death of an employee on or after January I, 1988 and prior to his retirement, his spouse shall he entitled to a lump sum amount calculated as the commuted value of the employee's accrued pension benefit at his date of death reduced by his accrued pension benefit as at December 31,1986. If the employee has no spouse, the lump sum amount will be payable to his designated beneficiary or, if none, to his estate.
Upon the death of a former employee whose service was terminated on or after January I, 1988 and who is entitled to a deferred vested pension payable at his normal retirement date, his spouse shall be entitled to a lump sum amount calculated its the commuted value of the former employee's deferred vested pension reduced by his accrued pension benefit as at December 31,1986.
Upon the death of an employee who is receiving a pension from the fund at his time of death, pension payments shall cease immediately unless an optional form of pension was elected at the time of retirement in which case benefits shall be paid in accordance with the optional pension elected,
5.09	DESIGNATED BENEFICIARY
An employee may, by written notice to the Company, designate a person to receive Ihc benefits payable under the agreement on his death and may also, by written notice to (he Company, alter or revoke such designation from lime to time, subject always to the provisions of any law governing the designation of beneficiaries,
85
Notwithstanding the above, an employee who has a spouse may "ot designate any other beneficiary to receive benefits in res[ of the employee's service on and after January 1, 1987 unless the employee and his spouse both waive the entitlement to any death benefits in the prescribed form or by means of a certified copy of a domestic contract as defined under the Family Law Act.
ARTICLE VI — ELIGIBILITY
6.01	NEW EMPLOYEES
A new employee becomes eligible from his date of hire when lie has completed his probationary period as defined in the Collective Labour Agreement. No medical examination will be required.
6.02	LAY-OFF OR LEAVE OF ABSENCE
Credited service shall be accumulated and retained as provided for in Section 4.01.
6.03	VOLUNTARY TERMINATION OR DISCHARGE
An employee loses all rights under this agreement except any deferred vested rights he has acquired under Section 5.04.
ARTICLE VII — GENERAL PROVISIONS
7.01	No employee shall be required or permitted to make any contribution under this agreement during the term of this agreement or any renewal thereof.
7.02	The Company shall be the administrator of the plan and as such shall have the sole responsibility and authority consistent with the provisions of this agreement for the operation and administration of the plan.
7.03	Coverage under this agreement shall not give any employee any additional right to be retained in the employment of the Company. and all employees shall remain subject to discipline, discharge or lay-off to the same extent as if this agreement had not been put into effect.
86
7.04	A copy of this agreement and any amendments thereto will be died to each employee. The complete text will be available for . .urination at the offices of the Company.
7.05	Should the federal or provincial government pass legislation creating a program which would enable or require the Company to transfer a deferred vested pension of a person whose employment has terminated into a special fund, the Company may participate in such a program, and such participation shall be considered a complete discharge of the Company's liabilities under this agreement.
7.06	The seniority of any employee who retires in accordance with this agreement shall cease for the purpose of applying the provisions of any Collective Labour Agreement which now is or hereafter shall be in effect between the Company and the Union, except that if a pensioner is rehired on cessation of his disability retirement, he shall be credited with the service which he had at the time of his disability retirement and shall accumulate further service from the time he starts work after he has been rehired.
7.07	(A) Should any dispute arise between the Company and an employee with reference to eligibility for benefits or payment of claims under this Agreement, or if a dispute should arise between the Company and the Union as to whether the Company has provided and continues to provide benefits as herein described, such dispute may be taken as a grievance under the grievance provisions of the Collective Labour Agreement then in effect, omitting however all steps preceding presentation of grievance, in which the personnel manager participates.
(B)	If a grievance is taken to arbitration under the provisions of the Collective Labour Agreement, the arbitrator or board of arbitration, insofar as it may be necessary to the determination of such grievance, shall have authority only to interpret and apply the provisions of this agreement and the Collective Labour Agreement.
(C)	The arbitrator or arbitration board shall have no authority to add to or subtract from any provision of this agreement or to waive or fail to apply any requirement of eligibility for benefit.
87
(D)	The decision of an arbitrator or the majority decision of a*' arbitration board on any grievance properly referred shall be bit upon the Company, the Union and the employee.
7.08	Should any dispute arise between the Company and any employee applicant for a disability pension or pensioner on disability retirement as to whether he is, or continues to be, totally and permanently disabled as defined in this agreement, such dispute shall be resolved as follows:
(A)	The employee applicant or pensioner shall be examined by a physician appointed for that purpose by the Company and by a physician appointed for that purpose by the Union.
(B)	If they disagree concerning either total and permanent disability, or disability under Section 5.02, as the case may be, the question shall be submitted to a third physician selected by the said two physicians. The opinion of the third physician, alter examination of the disabled person and consultation with the other two physicians shall decide such question and such decision shall be binding upon the Company, the Union and the disabled person. The fees and expenses of the third physician shall be shared equally by the Company and the Union.
7.09	No action taken in performance of the terms of this agreement and consistent herewith shall be construed or interpreted to be a violation of any of the terms of any Collective Labour Agreement between the Company and the Union.
7.10	The Union shall be furnished with such pertinent information as it may reasonably request from time to time, with respect to the pension benefits hereunder.
7.11	.SPLITTING OF CREDITS ON MARRIAGE BREAKDOWN
The spouse of an employee who is party with such employee to a domestic contract as defined in Part IV of the Family Law Act, 1986 may become entitled, pursuant to such domestic contract or to an order under Part I of such Act, to payment of a portion of the employee's benefits under this agreement.
88
ARTICLE VIII — MODIFICATION AND TERMINATION
8.P This Agreement is subject to such amendments from time to i .e as may be necessary to meet the requirements of any applicable Federal or Provincial laws, orders or regulations.
8.02	This Agreement may he modified or discontinued, after sixty days notice to the Union, hut not prior to the effective date of any change in the legislation referred to hereinafter, should the whole or any part of the expenses to the Company be disallowed as a deduction for Income Tax purposes, or should the Income Tax laws be changed to provide for disallowance in whole or in part payments of this class and kind its Income Tax deductions. Should modification or discontinuance of this Agreement become necessary for any of these reasons, negotiations will be resumed immediately after such notice is given.
8.03	If at any time, the Federal or Provincial Government passes legislation which directly or indirectly has the effect of providing benefits similar to one or more of the benefits described in this Agreement for which the employees as a class shall be eligible, this Agreement shall terminate in respect to that benefit or benefits upon the expiration of thirty days after the proclamation of such statute or upon the date the statute comes into effect, whichever is later. During such thirty day period or such longer period as may expire after date of proclamation of the statute, the parties will meet for the purpose of negotiating any amendments required or desirable to assure that the aggregate of the statutory benefits and the benefits provided under this Agreement consistent with previous costs of this Agreement, shall approximate in kind and money value to the benefits provided under this Agreement before said statutory enactment.
8.04	Procedure for allocating the pension fund upon termination of this Agreement.
In the event of termination of the plan, the assets then remaining in the trust fund, after providing the expenses of the plan, shall be allocated by the committee, to the extent that they shall be sufficient lor the purpose of paying retirement benefits (based on credited service to the date of termination of the plan), to participants, former participants and retired participants in the following order of precedence:
89
(A) First, to provide for:
(1)	The continuation of annuities in the form in effect wk expect to them immediately prior to the plan's termination for those persons who are pensioners, beneficiaries and contingent annuitants under the plan at its termination;
(2)	The payment of an immediate annuity, in an amount equal to the retirement benefit he would have received had he retired on the date of termination to each participant who on the date of termination qualifies for a normal retirement benefit under Section 5,01;
(3)	The payment of a deferred annuity commencing at age sixty-five (65) in an amount equal to his vested deferred retirement benefit to each person who terminated employment and is eligible for such a benefit pursuant to Section 5.04;
(4)	The payment of a deferred annuity equal to the vested deferred retirement pension to which he would have been entitled if the date of the plan's termination were the date of termination of his employment, to each other participant not in any class above who at the date of the plan's termination is at least age forty-five (45) and has completed at least ten (10) years of credited service.
There shall be no priority among the above. Any person, whether in Group (1), (2), (3) or (4), stands on the same rung of the ladder with a person in any other group.
(Bj Second, if any such assets remain after complete allocation for the purposes of (A) above, they shall be allocated after first establishing classes of participants who are less than age sixty-five (65) on the date of termination and are potentially eligible for a normal retirement benefit by treating each successively younger five (5)year age group as a class using the age sixty-five (65)as a base. An order of allocation priority shall then be established beginning with the oldest class. The assets shall then he allocated to participants in each such class who have an interest herein on account of credited service prior to the date of termination of the plqn in an amount equal to the actuarial value of such interest. The allocations of the amounts, if any, in each class for full or reduced retirement benefits for such participants shall be on the basis of annuity values providing for the payment of such benefits (commencing at the age of first eligibility for a normal retire-
90	•
merit benefit) in the form, applicable to such participants, which w 'd have prevailed had the plan not been discontinued with a, nation for reduction of retirement benefits, as in (A) above.
Such allocation shall be accomplished through the continuance of the trust fund which shall be maintained without earmark as to the severable equitable interests of those having a share allocated as above. The allocation of assets in this section is merely for the purpose of determining the adequacy of the trust fund io provide reserves for retirement benefits of a certain monthly amount, and is not intended to give any participant legal title to a share of the trust fund or to vest in any participant such right, title and interest in the tmst fund as to entitle him to a segregation of his aliquot share of the trust fund as a separate account.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the trustees, upon finding that it is not practicable or desirable under the circumstances to continue the trust fund with respect to some or all of the groups listed above, the trustees may provide for the disposition of all or a part of the trust , f und in a manner other than by the continuance of the trust fund with respect to some or all of the groups listed above, but no change shall be affected thereby in the order of precedence and.basis for allocation above established.
Further, if required to dispose of the trust fund oilier than by its continuance because of a government rule or statute, such trust fund shall be disposed of in accordance with such rule or statute. If any allocation produces a retirement benefit of less than fifty dollars ($50.00) per year for any person, the trustees may pay in lieu of a retirement benefit a lump sum of equivalent actuarial value.
Anything in this plan which might be construed to the contrary notwithstanding however, it shall be impossible at any time for any part of the corpus or income of the trust fund to revert to the Company.
8.05	AMENDMENTS
Amendments to this plan may be made in writing by mutual consent cf both parties.
8.06	TERMINATION
This agreement as effective October I, 1989 shall remain in full force and 'effect until September 30, 1992 and shall eontin-
91
uc in effect thereafter from year to year for further periods of one year 'ach unless either party shall have given written notice of ter-mii nor written notice of proposals for amendment to the other party not less than two months but not more than three months prior to the expiration date or any anniversary date thereafter.
In the event of written notice of termination of proposals for amendment having been given by either party as herein provided. negotiations shall be proceeded with during the notice period with a view to completing a new agreement. Should such negotiations extend beyond the expiration date, this agreement shall remain in full force and effect until negotiations are broken off by either party. In the event notice of termination is given by either party. this agreement shall continue to operate in the manner as provided in Section 59 of the Labour Relations Act of Ontario (R.S\) 1979 CH 232 as amended October 1977.
In witness whereof each of the parties hereto has caused this plan to be signed the first day of October, 1992, by its authorized representatives as of the day and year first above written.
9-HOUR SHIFTS
The second shift operations on a two shift rotation will be scheduled to operate as follows:
Therefore, your normal 40-hour work week will be completed at 7:25 p.m. on Friday evening. The rest periods and lunch periods will be scheduled as normal (no additional breaks).
FOR THE NATIONAL UNION
Linda White
Jamie Ransley
Ruth Wragner
Joseph Nethercott
Bonnie Henderson
Peg
Gai
Cy
Monday through Thursday Friday
92
No overtime premium will be paid Monday through Thun1'unless employees work more than 9 hours.
overtime is necessary on Friday evenings, it is anticipated that the employees working the above shift will work the overtime.
For this scheduling to be successful, we must be made aware of any problems that may occur. Flopefully, we will be able to correct them. It is extremely important that you make your foreman and the Union Executive aware of any problems.
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
The purpose of this Memorandum of Agreement is to implement, on a trial basis, a IO-hour shift to run for four consecutive days. This would only affect employees on the afternoon shift who are on a regular 2-shift rotation.
If the Company requires a third shift, or if other unforeseen circumstances make the IO-hour shift impractical to be continued, the Company will confer with the Union regarding the situation prior to any discontinuance of this shift. This shift may be discontinued by either party if problems arise that cannot be corrected to the satisfaction of all.
The Company agrees to pay holiday pay to anyone working on this shift who would normally qualify for holiday pay under the terms of the Collective Labour Agreement, pay at 10 hours for Indirect Labour and 12 hours for Direct Labour. In cases of bereavement, the Friday will be counted as a working day, but pay will not be given in bereavement cases, Instead, employees will be paid for the full 10 hours on Monday through Thursday.
It is understood by the Union that if overtime is required. employees on the 10-hour shift operation may be required to work a fifth 8-hour shift on Friday.
It is also understood that the Company or the Union can bring any problem caused by the operation of this shift to the attention of the other party in an effort to make a resolution.
93
LETTER OF INTENT
Prior to any substantial layoff during the term of the Ci live Labour Agreement, the Company will discuss same witli me Union, and decide what if anything can be done to maintain senior employees.
To: Linda White	February 24, 1993
From: Howard Hallam
Subject:
CLARIFICATION LETTER FOR “SENIORITY LETTER”
In the event of a substantial lay-off (2 weeks or more) during the term of the Collective Labour Agreement, the Company will lay off and recall by Master Seniority.
It is understood by the parties that situations may arise in which this may not be accomplished immediately due to the amount of people to be trained or the job classifications involved. The company will therefore discuss with the union to see what, if anything, can be done to protect the senior employees.
Howard Hallam,
Manager of Human Resources
To: Linda White, President, CBRT & GW Local 451
From: Howard Hallam
Subject:
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
The purpose of this letter is to implement a transfer agreement between Standard Products (Canada) Ltd. and the CBRT & GW Local 451 for Plants 1 and 2. This agreement will remain in effect until cancelled by either party upon 30 days written notice.
The transfer agreement will be utilized by moving personnel from one division to another using the following guidelines:
94
1)	Job postings will be simultaneously posted in both
p;.	'ns for openings in either plant with the understanding that
SCI in will be made in the division where the opening actually exists first.
2)	If no one signs the posting from the division in which the vacancy exists, a selection from the employees who signed the posting from the other division will be made in accordance with Section 8.08 (b) of the Collective Agreement. They will be transferred as soon as possible. Exceptions may be necessary where productivity demands dictate.
3)	Successful applicants upon transfer will accumulate
seniority in their new division only, but will retain their former
seniority in their former division,
Such employees, (after probationary period) will be required to remain in their new division for at least one (I) year from their date of master seniority. On a layoff situation, the one year stipulation will be waived. However, any employee who does not successfully complete their probationary period will be returned to his/her original position in their former division.
For the purpose of this transfer agreement, only master seniority from the division in which an employee is currently working will be used for signing postings for vacancies in other division.
Seniority retained in other than an employee's present division will not be recognized for bumping purposes but will be recognized upon returning to former division by any subsequent transfer and by lay-off provisions as openings come available.
4)	Although seniority will only accumulate in the division the employee is presently working, all service with the company will continue to count towards pension and vacation calculations.
5)	Vacancies created as a result of the transfer will be posted in accordance with the Collective Labour Agreement as a step 2 posting.
In order to allow this agreement to continue to the benefit of both parties, open communication is essential.
In view of the great deal of discussion between the parties in the preparation of this understanding, future readers should be
95
aware that this constitutes the maximum and limit of the flexibility of > ’ter-plant movements other than those provided for by the L live Labour Agreement.
CLARIFICATION
When employees utilize the Transfer Agreement and move from one plant to another and subsequent to obtaining their master seniority in the second plant they are put on lay-off status and recalled to their former plant when an opening becomes available:
1)	Seniority in original plant can be utilized for lay-offs and group openings (no bumping), but postings will not be awarded to them unless no one signs the posting from either plant, for the one year period stipulated in the transfer agreement.
2)	They will have priority recall as per their seniority rights to original plant, i.e. A Plant #1 person who is transferred to Plant #2 and laid off after master seniority, will have first recall to Plant #1 by seniority before Plant #2 people with no seniority.
As further clarification to the transfer agreement entered into on lune 4, 1990 and the subsequent letter of clarification dated January 10, 1992 the parties agree to the following:
When employees are on lay-off status from one plant, job postings will be posted within that plant only and not in the second facility. Upon recall of all active employees within the said division that the job opening occurs the 2 plant job posting system would reactivate.
Occupational Group #17 — Plant # 1 and Plant #2
Memorandum of Agreement between Standard Products (Canada) Limited and the Canadian Brotherhood of Railway Transport & General Workers, Local 451.
It has been agreed by the parties that Group #17 Teaching and Repairs:
1)	Shall be an Indirect Labour Group with rates of pay as listed in the Collective Labour Agreement dated October 1,
1992 under Schedule #2A, 2B and 2C, Plant #1 and Schedule 3 A, 3B and 3C, Plant #2.
96
2)	Shall be a non-seniority group with no seniority rights within the group.
3)	Shall be the group to which Direct Labour Incentive et-ijUoyees shall be transferred whenever they are directed by supervisor to perform the duties of:
a)	Teaching or training
b)	Repairs
c)	Mould cleaning both glass bead	and acid
d)	Shot-comer mould cleaning
e)	Dip-room clean-up
f)	Mould changeover — weatherstrip	line
Group #16 — Cement Room Operator —Plant #1 only
Whenever an employee is performing the duties of Group #16, but is unable to earn incentive because of line shutdown he or she shall be transferred to Group # 17 and paid the rate of Group #17.
Group #3 and Group #9 — Plant § I
Whenever an employee is working in Group #3 or Group #9 of Schedule #2 is directed by supervision to transfer into Group #17 in the capacity of Utility, or Lead Hand, his or her rate of pay will be:
Current Group#17 rate of pay plus 150 per.hour.
It is understood
1)	Group #17 will not apply when Direct Labour NonIncentive or Indirect Labour employees are directed to perform the above named duties.
2)	Group #17 shall not apply to those operations where minor repairs to a part is part of the incentive standard.
3)	Group # 17 shall not apply when a Direct Labour Incentive employee is directed to rework or repair defective parts which are the result Qf his or her own poor workmanship or carelessness.
4)	Group #1.7 will not apply for the normal daily end of shift cleanup.
97
LETTERS OF INTENT
October 1, 1986
RE: OVERTIME
As agreed during negotiations, the Company is prepared to extend the time limit to grieve in the case of overtime.
In an endeavour to maintain good working relationships with all employees, the Company will advise the Union Executive when it cannot get enough qualified employees to run any operation scheduled to work overtime.
This will be done, where possible, prior to implementing mandatory overtime.
This list of rules is not intended to be complete and personnel are warned that violations of any company rules will be sufficient grounds for disciplinary action ranging from reprimand to discharge.
(a)	Stealing company property or that of fellow workers.
(b)	Reporting production falsely or punching other than employee's own card.
(c)	Sabotage.
(d)	Violation of safety rules.
(e)	Reporting for work intoxicated.
(0 Disorderly or immoral conduct on company property.
(g)	Obtaining employment on basis of false information.
(h)	Absenteeism. .
(i)	Lateness.
(j)	Continual unco-operativeness.
(k)	Avoidable waste of material.
(l)	Defective workmanship.
vv aj iiv-/
Personnel
Wayne
COMPANY RULES
98
)
(m)	,Low production.
(v*' ‘Endangering life of the employee or that of fellow /mployees.
(o)	Smoking in prohibited areas or at prohibited times.
(p)	Insubordination.
99