Collective
Agreement
Uniroyal Goodrich Canada Inc. Kitchener South Plant
Local No. 677 U.R.C.L. and P.W.A
Jun« l»t, 1992 - May 31> 1995
A G R E ET M~ E' N T
This agreement made and entered into this 1st day of June, 1992, by and between Uni royal Goodrich Canada Inc., Kitchener South Plant, Kitchener, Ontario, hereinafter called the '‘Company", and the United Rubber, Cork, Linoleum, and Plastic Workers of America Local #677 thereof, hereinafter called the "Union", for the occupational classifications represented by the Union as set forth in Article 2, Subsection 2,01,
ARTICLE I Purpose
It is the mutual desire of the parties to this agreement to promote co-operation and harmony, and to provide an amicable method of settling differences which might arise hereunder.
ARTICLE II Recognition
2.01	The Company recognizes the Union as the sole Collective Bargaining Agent for all hourly-rated and incentive employees of the Company at its Tire Plant in the City of Kitchener, SAVE AND EXCEPT supervisors, persons above the rank of supervisors, watchmen, guards, production schedulers, office employees.
2.02	The Company agrees to meet and negotiate with the representatives of the Union on matters pertaining to rates of pay, hours of work, and working conditions.
2.03	Wherever the masculine gender appears in this Agreement, it shall be construed as meaning male or female, unless the context in the clause requires otherwise.
ARTICLE III
Deduction of Union Dues
3,01	The Company agrees to deduct from the wages of any employees who are members of the Union who individually and voluntarily certify in writing that they authorize such deduction, their union dues, new member dues, rejoining fees and general assessments in accordance with the International Constitution of the U.R.C.L. & P.W.A. and remit said deductions to the Treasurer of Local #677 U.R.C.L. & P.W.A.
Individual check-off authorizations which have been signed by employees shall be irrevocable during the life of this
5
Agreement and any extension tKefedf.'
3.02	Any person hired as a new employee and any employe^ who is hereafter transferred into the bargaining unit on or after the effective date of this Agreement shall become a member of the Union on the date of employment or transfer, and shall as a condition of employment, maintain his membership in the Union to the extent of paying membership dues.
3.03	Any employee who is in the bargaining unit and who is ^ not a member of the Union shall become a member of the Union
not later than fifteen (15) days from the effective date of i this Agreement and shall, as a condition of employment, maintain his membership in the Union to the extent of paying membership dues. An employee who is on layoff, on leave of absence, or absence due to injury or illness shall comply with the requirement of this section not later than fifteen (15) days following his return to work.
3.04 Clauses 3.01, 3.02, 3.03 shall not apply to an employee who is denied membership in the Union or whose membership therein has been terminated for reasons other than his failure to tender the regular monthly membership dues in such amount as may be fixed by the local union in accordance with the procedure prescribed by the Constitution of the International Union.
3.05	(a) In the event any employee fails to become a member of the Union as provided in Clause 3.02 or 3.03 above, the Union shall give written notice to the Company and to such employee of such failure. Such employee shall not be retained on a job in the bargaining unit unless he has, within two (2) weeks after receipt of such notice, presented evidence that he has become a member of the Union, or that he was denied a membership for reasons other than his failure to tender the regular monthly membership dues in such amount as may be fixed by the local union in accordance with the procedure prescribed by the Constitution of the International Union.
(b) Any employee who has become a member of the Union and who thereafter fails to maintain his membership in the Union to the extent of paying membership dues shall not be retained in the employ of the Company, provided that the Union shall have given written notice to the Company and to such employee of such failure and such employee shall have failed to comply with the provisions of this Article within thirty (30) days after the receipt of such notice.
3.06	Authorizations for union deductions shall be automatically revoked upon:
(a)	Termination of employment
(b)	Transfer of employment into an occupation outside the bargaining unit.
6
The Company will, however, dSdirct:' 'the monthly union dues and/or new member dues from the payoff cheques or S.U.B. payments of those members in (a) who have had insufficient dues deducted in either the month they have terminated their employment and/or the month previous, provided such employee has worked thirty-two (32) or more hours in such month or months and has sufficient earnings. The Company will also deduct monthly union dues from the current month from those employees in (b) who worked in the bargaining unit for thirty-two (32) or more hours in such month.
3,07	Authorizations for union deductions shall be signed in triplicate by the employees concerned and their signature must be witnessed by an employee of the Company. One copy shall be given to the employee who authorized his deduction, one copy to a representative of Local #677, and one copy will be forwarded to the Company Payroll Department. The following forms of authorizations shall be used.
"A"
I hereby authorize Uniroyal Goodrich Canada Inc., to deduct from my wages or S.U.B. payments owing to me, in each month on a weekly basis, a total of the current monthly sum, or such other amount as may be revised by the local union in accordance with the Constitution of the International Union, or by action of the Convention of the International Union, in accordance with and for the duration of the Collective Agreement between Uniroyai Goodrich Canada Inc., Kitchener South Plant and Local #677, U.R.C.L. & P.W.A. dated June 1/ 1992, Please remit this sum weekly to Local #677 as my membership dues. This assignment is irrevocable during the life of the Agreement, but becomes void upon:
(a)	termination of employment, or
(b)	transfer to an occupation outside the bargaining unit.
I understand that it shall place no liability of any kind upon Uniroyal Goodrich Canada Inc. by virtue of your action in honouring in good faith this assignment and authorization.
Emp, No.
Dept .No...................
............ Address
Signed
(employee)
Witness
Date
Address
Application for Membership
On this .................................... I hereby make
application for membership in Local #677, U.R.C.L. & P.W.A., and if accepted, I do hereby authorize Uni royal Goodrich Canada Inc. to deduct from my wages owing to me on the earliest pay day of the first month the current sum, or such other amount as may be revised in accordance with the Constitution of the International Union, or by action of the Convention of the International Union, as my new member dues or rejoining fee in accordance with the Collective Agreement between the said parties, dated June 1,	1992, This new
member's dues or rejoining fee deduction will also include my first regular union dues installment and shall be remitted to Local #677,
I understand that it shall place no liability of any kind upon Uniroyal Goodrich Canada Inc. by virtue of your action in honouring in good faith this assignment and authorization.
Emp, No................... Signed.........................
(employee)
Date .................. Witness ..........................
The Union shall give the Company written notice in advance of any change in the amounts expressed in Schedules "A" or "B" .
3.08	Authorizations for deductions shall be effective from the earliest pay payable of the month provided the employee has worked and/or received the equivalent of thirty-two (32) or more hours and/or received the equivalent in S.U.B, payments in such month. If the employee is entitled to no pay or has insufficient wages on any pay day then the current deduction shall become an arrear.
3.09	The Company Payroll Department shall make current, arrear and new member deductions from the wages or payments of union members in accordance with the authorizations then in his hands. The Company Payroll Department will forward the deductions within five (5) days of such pay to the Treasurer of Local #677, U.R.C.L. & P.W.A,
3.10	The Company shall name the employee from whose pay the union deductions were made and shall classify such as either current, arrears or ROwasab«c, The Company shall also name the employees from whom no deductions were made and shall classify such employees as:
(a) Where they have terminated employment and classed as laid off, discharged, retired or quit.
8
(b)	Where they have been Urans’ferred into an occupation outside the bargaining unit.
(c)	Where they did not"have sufficient wages or payments by the fourth pay day of the month.
The Company shall also name the employee who was transferred and his employee number in the department to which he was transferred.
3.11	The Union shall indemnify and save the Company harmless from any claims, suits, judgements, attachments, and from other form of liability as a result of the Company making any deductions in accordance with the foregoing authorizations and assignments and the Union will refund directly to all employees on whom a wrongful deduction was made.
3.12	Both parties agree that there will be no discrimination, coercion, or intimidation of employees in respect to union membership or authorization of union deductions.
3.13 The Union agrees that neither it nor any of its
officers or members will collect union dues, new member dues, or rejoining fees on Company time.
ARTICLE IV Company Security
4.01	It is recognized that the continuity of production free from work stoppages, slowdowns, or strikes is essential to the efficient and economical operation of the Company's business.
4.02	It is agreed that the Company shall have the right to reasonably discipline employees who violate any provisions of this Agreement, If the Union questions that the Agreement has been violated, the Union shall have the right to avail itself of the grievance procedure as provided in Article V of this Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Grievance Procedure
5.01 The employee who has a complaint shall refer it to his immediate supervisor either directly or through his union representative. If the complaint is not satisfactorily settled, it may then be treated as a grievance and may be reduced to writing, dated and approved by the proper Union official- The grievor's supervisor or department/araa manager shall acknowledge the request for a grievance meeting by signing the grievance form in the appropriate place.
9
The grievance thereafter shaTr~T5e' processed through th* following channels in sequence.
Step 1 The Department steward and Vics-Presidsnt and/or
authorized representative and the Departedat/Area Manager of the grievor's department and/or h ? authorized representative. A steward shall be member of the department which he represents. Howe er, in the case of a small department, a steward c a be a member of another department.
Step 2 The Department steward, President, Vice-?:; isident and/or their authorized representative (s) >nd the Department Hood of the grievor's department and/or his authorized representative(s).
If a steward, at Step #1 or #2, is away from the plant and will either not be available within a reasonable period of time to negotiate the grievance, or it is desired that the grievance be processed without undue delay, the President, VicePresident and/or their authorized representative (s) may be substituted.
Step 3 The Department steward and/or a member or members of the bargaining committee and the Manager Industrial Relations and the Plant Manager and/or their authorized representatives. An international representative shall attend upon request of the Union.
Step 4 Any grievance arising from the interpretation, application, administration, or alleged violation of the Agreement, including incentive standards, which has not been settled under the grievance procedure including any question as to whether a matter is arbitrable may within, but not more than thirty-five (35) calendar days after completion of Step #3 be submitted to arbitration by either party. When either party to this Agreement requests that a grievance be submitted to arbitration, they make such request in writing, and address same to the other party. Such request shall contain insofar as possible, a complete and accurate statement of the grievance matter to be arbitrated. Within five (5) Calendar days of receipt of this notice, each party shall appoint an arbitrator, and notify the other party of its appointee. The two arbitrators so appointed shall select a chairman of the arbitration board within five (5) calendar days. In the event of failure to agree upon a chairman, either or both parties shall make application to the Minister of Labour for Ontario, asking that he nominate a chairman.
5.02	A decision by the majority of the arbitration board shall be final and binding upon both parties and the employees.
10
5.03	Each of the parties shah! “pay’-the charges and expenses of its appointees. The charges and expenses of the chairman of the arbitration board (if any) shall be borne equally by the Company and the Union.
5.04	The arbitration board shall not be authorized to make any decision inconsistent with the provisions of this Agreement, nor to alter, modify, or amend any part of the Agreement. Unless mutually agreed, no matter may be submitted to arbitration which has not been properly carried through all previous steps of the grievance procedure.
5.05	(a) In all cases of arbitration, a single arbitrator will be substituted for a Board of Arbitration provided for in this Article V unless the Union and the Company mutually agree to proceed by means of a Board of Arbitration.
(b) In all cases of substitution of a single arbitrator for a Board of Arbitration, as outlined in subsection (a) above, all other applicable provisions of Article V will continue to apply so far as they are relevant.
5.06	Grievances on occupational hourly rate ceilings and base rates in effect on the effective date of this Agreement are not subject to arbitration. Grievances pertaining to hourly rates under ceilings and new base rates established after the effective date of this Agreement (except those rates affected by general wage adjustments) shall be subject to the arbitration procedure as defined in STEP 4 except that in such instances a single arbitrator will be substituted for the arbitration board.
This arbitrator will be selected by agreement between the parties or by the Minister of Labour for Ontario if the parties fail to agree on their selection within five (5) days after either party files a request for arbitration of the grievance, and he shall be a member of a reputable industrial engineering company and knowledgeable in the field of Industrial Engineering.
5.07	On a question pertaining to incentive standards and/or the application or cancellations of fixed process allowances for physically restricted increments of time and variable process allowance schedules in connection with an incentive standard, the Company and Union arbitrators shall appoint a reputable industrial engineering company for advice and counsel. Failing agreement on such appointment, the Chairman of the arbitration board shall make the appointment.
The Company so selected shall be required to make a thorough time study of the standard and/or process allowance schedule that is questioned before reporting to the Board. The charges and expenses of the industrial engineering company shall be borne equally by the Company and the Union.
5.08	Any difference between the Company and the Union as to
11
the interpretation of this Agreigmeivt "and any allegation by either party that the other has violated any terms of thd' Agreement, shall be deemed to be a grievance. In the evei. that such interpretation affects all employees in the bargaining unit, it shall be presented originally in STEP 3 of the grievance procedure.
5.09	Meetings will be arranged promptly in accordance with clause 5.13 to suit the convenience of the parties, but insofar as possible not to interfere with working hours. An aggrieved employee may be required to attend a meeting by either party. However, no more than one employee shall be requested to attend a meeting unless it is mutually felt that more than one is necessary.
5.10	If a problem arises requiring a steward to contact employees during working hours, such contact shall be arranged by the steward through either the immediate supervisor or the D$partment/Ar«« Manager concerned.
5.11	Executive Officers of the Union, Stewards and authorized local Union representatives (a current list to be provided by the Union) shall be permitted to enter the plant when off shift for the purpose of investigating grievances or conducting Union business. Before entering the plant, he shall comply with Company security regulations then in effect which regulations currently provide as follows:
1)	He shall register with the security guard and be issued a pass.
2)	He shall present his pass to the supervisor of the employee to be interviewed and secure his permission to contact the employee so that the least possible delay will result. Such pass shall be signed by the supervisor designating the time of entry and departure from the department.
3)	Upon his departure from the plant, he shall register out and surrender his pass to the security guard.
5.12	Within three (3) working days excluding Saturday, Sunday, and holidays, after receiving a dated grievance, supervision shall answer in writing giving the necessary information to show the solution or the action being taken toward the solution of the grievance.
5.13	A request for a meeting on a grievance may be written and if in writing, it shall be in triplicate signed by the steward concerned, and presented to management in the following manner:
At Step #1 of the grievance procedure, the steward will present copies 1 and 2 of the written request to the Dapmrt-asot/Araa Manager or his authorized representative. Such written request shall be dated as of the date of presentation. The Dspartmsnt/Arsa Manager or his authorized repre-
12
sentative will initial receipt'—of- same" on both copies and return copy number 2 to the steward. If the grievance is not settled at Step #1, and the Union desires to obtain a meeting at Step #2 of the grievance procedure, the President or Vice-President of the Union or a representative authorized by them will present copies 2 and 3 of the written request signed by the contact man to the Department Haad concerned and such copies shall contain the date of presentation. The above Dapartmant Haad will initial receipt of same on both copies and return copy number 2 to the Union contact man.
If the grievance is not settled at Step 12 and the Union desires to obtain a meeting at Step #3, the Union will arrange such meeting with the Manager Industrial Relations through their normal contact. Such request will not be made in writing.
A meeting on a grievance shall be scheduled within three (3) working days excluding Saturday, Sunday and holidays, after the date of request for a meeting or at such later date as may be mutually agreed. If succeeding meetings at any step in the grievance procedure are required, they shall be arranged within three (3) working days unless otherwise mutually agreed upon; provided however, meetings shall not be scheduled on Saturday, Sunday, or holidays except by mutual agreement.
5.14	The Union agrees that the final written answer of management to a grievance at any step in the grievance procedure shall dispose of the grievance unless such grievance is appealed within ten (10) calendar days •xolvdlng any vacation shutdown period from the date of management's final answer. The only exception shall be that of an appeal to arbitration wherein thirty-five (35) calendar days is allowed.
5.15	If the Company requests the presence of an employee at a meeting, the Company shall compensate the employee for such time as follows:
Time Work - At his customary hourly rate.
Incentive - The Base Rate of his job at his average unit
In addition, the employee will be paid any shift premium to which he would be entitled for hours lost from his normal shift because of such meeting. Company agrees to provide all grievance meeting minutes to the local Union.
5.16 Discharge Clausa
If an employee feels that he has been unjustly suspended or discharged, he shall have the right to appeal his case in accordance with the grievance procedure set forth in Article V of this Agreement. Such appeal must be in writing addressed to the Company and the Union, and must be in the
hour.
13
Company's hands no later than-trftree *(3-) working days, excluding Saturday, Sunday and holidays, after the effective datr of his suspension or discharge.
If such appeal is properly made, the matter shall be negotiated through the regular channels and if it is determined that the employee has been unjustly suspended or discharged, he shall be reinstated to his former position without loss of seniority, and shall be compensated at his average earnings for normal hours lost from work because of the suspension or discharge _ less any penalty mutually agreed or decided by arbitration.
It is understood that when a department/area manager
receives a written grievance pertaining to the appealing of a suspension or discharge, he shall be available for negotiating such grievance within one (1) working day, excluding Saturday, Sunday and holidays, after the receiving of the grievance.
Both parties of Step #2 shall be available for negotiating such grievance within one (1) working day, excluding Saturday, Sunday and holidays, after the completion of Step #1.
Both parties of Step #3 shall be available for negotiating such grievance within one (1) working day, excluding Saturday, Sunday and holidays, after the completion of Step #2,
One (1) day as referenced in this clause may be extended by mutual agreement.
In the event an employee is suspended or discharged, the supervisor concerned shall notify such employee's steward if on shift, or aa soon as possible, of such suspension or discharge.
5.17	The Company and the Union desire that, insofar as possible, all grievances should be settled at the first step of the grievance procedure. A grievance after it has reached Step #3 shall not be settled at any previous step unless with the consent of the Manager Industrial Relations or his authorized representatives and the bargaining committee or their authorized representatives. Both parties agree to follow the grievance procedure in the sequence of steps as outlined in this Article.
5.18	The Union agrees there shall be no strike, partial or complete, slowdown, or stoppage of work on grievances that are proper subjects for arbitration, nor shall there be any strike, partial or complete, slowdown or stoppage of work on grievances that are not proper subjects for arbitration. The Company agrees there shall be no lock-out under the same conditions.
The Union agrees that in event of a legal strike, employees in the bargaining unit will provide for maintenance and operation of all essential services for the protection of plant property and products. It is understood that if the
14
Union feels that the Company IS “^questing more employees in an individual occupation than are necessary for such maintenance, such problem will be negotiated to a satisfactory conclusion.	i
ARTICLE VI Hours of Wok
6.01	The normal working hours for employees shall be eight
(8) hours per day with an average of forty- two (42) hours per week according to the 4-crew, 7-day, 8-hour schedule. The normal work week shall commence at 11:45 p.m. Sunday and terminate at 11:45 p.m. the following Sunday. It is recognized that an eight (8) hour day shall be exceeded in the starting and stopping of holiday shifts or vacation shutdowns, replacement of absentees, and in cases of emergency:	an emergency shall be determined on a mutual basis by
the Company and the Union Representative.
The present shift schedule shall remain in effect until Friday, July 9, 1993. The plant will then change over to the Summer Five (5) Day Schedule for an eight (8) week period. A new shift schedule will then become effective Monday, September 6,	1993. The shift schedule will then
remain effective until the next Summer Five (5) Day Schedule in 1994 and will change over in each succeeding year to accommodate the Summer Five (5) Day Schedule and to equalise the consecutive days off for each employee during vacation periods.
6.02	In a period of reduced production for any reason, for more than a period of four (4) consecutive days' duration, working hours in a department or in a group within a department, shall be maintained at a reasonable level by the application of the following subsections in their chronological order.
1.	Employees who have no seniority privileges shall be laid off before the hours of employees who have seniority privileges are affected.
2.	If, with the layoff of employees as in Subsection 1, it is evident that hours will be less than normal weekly hours, then transferred employees who were transferred under 8.19 and have not attained residence rights will be transferred back to the department from which they were transferred.
3.	If with the layoffs according to Subsection 1 and transfers according to Subsection 2, it is evident that available hours will be less than normal weekly hours, then employees with seniority privileges will be laid off until a normal week is provided for the remaining employees.
15
Lay-offs made through the apptl'Ccttion of the above procedures in Sections 1, 2 and 3 are made in conjunction with the lay-off procedures laid down in Article VIII of thi agreement.
6.03	The Union recognizes that it is the function of the Company to schedule hours of work and the employee's obligation to work the hours scheduled, provided the hours scheduled do not violate the "Employment Standards Act of the Province of Ontario" and regulations thereunder.
6.04	The Company agrees not to schedule less than four (4) hours work in any given shift, provided this shall not restrict the right of the Company to schedule less than four (4) hours under the provision of clause 6.07-
OVERTIME
6.05	Overtime hours worked on an employee's first scheduled day off shall be compensated at the rate of time and o**m-
^ half. Overtime hours worked on an employee's second or subsequent (third) scheduled day off shall be compensated at the rate of double time. Premium pay applies as stated irrespective of whether employee works first, second or third of the scheduled days off.
All hours worked in excess o f 40 hour8 will be compensated at time and one-half. Premium pay of time and one-half applicable ONLY after fifth day worked or paid for within that normal work week. If an employee Blisses any one of the days of the six scheduled days in a normal work wsek, he is not eligible for premium payment unless the missed day is a compensated day off for one of the following reasons: floater, vacation, bareavamant, jury duty or Union business (i.e. Pool of Hours).
6.06	Hours worked in excess of eight (8) hours in a twenty-four-hour period shall be Compensated at the rate of time and one-half, excepting:
a)	When the hours of an employee exceed his normal daily hours because he substituted for another employee other than at the Company’s request, changed his hours at his own request, or made a regular shift change. (A regular shift change normally occurs once per week).
b)	For time spent in meetings, however, time lost off the employee’s standard shift due to attending meetings at the plant shall be considered as part of the normal shift hours in determining overtime on his regular shift.
c)	When an employee reports for work on his regular shift and if sent home before the end of his regular shift and is required to report back for work within the twenty-four (24) hour period, he shall be paid time and one-half for all hours worked on call-back beyond his normal stopping time of his regular shift.
16
d)	That overtime premium paidTi?TIT"h'ot be paid twice for the same hours worked or paid for.
6.07	An employee who is called into work at any time between one-half (1/2) hour after he has left work and one (1) hour before his normal starting time, shall be paid a minimum of four (4) hours at his overtime rate.
6.08	It is understood and agreed that normals as expressed in this Article are not to be construed as meaning hours of work that the Company will guarantee employees. It is, however, further understood and agreed that in the application of clause 6.02 where hours are less than normal and can reasonably be corrected by layoff of employees, then such employees will be laid off.
HOLIDAYS
6.09 An employee who qualifies will be paid for eight (8)
hours when not worked (Exception:	a part time employee as
defined in Clause 8.06 will only be paid for scheduled time lost) for the following holidays: New Year‘s Day, Good Friday, Victoria Day, Canada Day, Civic Holiday, Labour Day, Thanksgiving Day, Christmas Day, and Boxing Day.
Holidays will start at 11:45 p.m. the night immediately preceding the holiday and will end at 11:45 p.m. of the holiday. All holidays will be observed on the day upon which, they fall on the calendar during the term of this agreement except for the following:
YEAR
1992
1993
1994
1995
DATE	HOLIDAY	DATE TO BE OBSERVED
July 1	Canada Day	July 19
July 1	Canada bay	July 10
August 2	civic Holiday	July 11
July 1	Canada Day	July 9
August 1	Civic Holiday	July 10
July 1	Canada Day	July 8
August 7	Civic Holiday	July 9
When any of the holidays listed in this clause fall on an employee's scheduled day off, he will be paid for said holiday, if eligible, and will not be granted another scheduled day off.
17
Floating Holidays:
All amploysss will be credited with three (3) Floatie Holidays which can ba taken at the employee's option sobjet to the approval of hi8 supervisor. The Coopt ay will attempt to accommodate the majority of requests for the floating holiday by hiring additional employees for such purpose. It was also understood and agreed that the employee should give sufficient notice to hi8 supervisor to enable tho supervisor sufficient time to plan and therefore grant the employee's request.
Eligibility for Floating Holidays:
Employees must be actively employed and meet, requirements to receive credit and payment for floating holidays:
the following the three (3)
2	months but less than $ months worked in \ a calendar year
6 months but less than 9 months worked in \ a calendar year
9 months or more worked in a calendar year
1	floater
2	floaters
3	floaters
If an employee was granted and was paid for a floating holiday (s) and did not meet the eligibility requirements specified above, then payment made to the employee for which he did not meet the specified requirements/ shaii he withheld from the employee's final pay or must be reimbursed to the Company.
6.10	In order for an employee to qualify for payment of wages for the paid holidays specified in clause 6.09 when not worked, he must report for work at the starting time of his shift and be prepared to work the scheduled hours of his shift on both the last scheduled work day preceding and the first scheduled work day following the paid holiday. The employee who thus qualifies shall be paid the hours as defined in 6.09 at his average earnings.
EXCEPTIONS: An employee who is unable to report for work on
the qualifying days because:
1.	He was late reporting for work due to a reason beyond his control that is acceptable to the Company.
2. He is confined to a hospital or at home due to sickness or injury and is, therefore, in the Company's opinion, prevented from working. This exception is limited to two
(2) paid holidays during the same confinement case and provided the employee is not entitled to payment under Workers' Compensation.
EXCEPTION:	When two (2) paid holidays occur during the
same two (2) day waiting period that an employee must wait before qualifying for a weekly indemnity payment under clause 4.02 of Article IV of the Insurance Program
18
Agreement, such day or days “shall 'be considered part of the waiting period.
If an employee is on sick leave and drawing sickness and accident benefits, the employee will be paid sick leave benefits for the holidays for which he or she is entitled, and upon returning to work will be reimbursed the difference between what the employee was paid as sick benefits and what the employee would be paid for holiday pay.
3	, He has an approved Leave of Absence which will be granted under the following conditions:
The supervisor will, upon request, grant a Leave of Absence to an employee up to but not exceeding five (5) calendar days in order for an employee to attend:
a)	The funeral of the employee's mother, mother-in-law,
father, father-in-law, sister, sister-in-law, brother, brother-in-law,	grandparents,	great-grandparents,
grandchildren, aunt, uncle, son-in-law, daughter-inlaw, husband, wife, and blood or adopted children, and spouse's grandparents, great-grandparents, brother-inlaw and sister-in-law.
b)	Serious illness in the employee-’s immediate family which shall include such illness on the part of the v employee's mother, mother-in-law, father, father-inlaw, sister, brother, husband, wife, grandparents, great-grandparents, grandchildren, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, and blood or adopted children.
The employee who would otherwise have qualified except for the exceptions herein stated, shall be paid for such holidays.
6.11	Time worked on a paid holiday by the employee who qualifies for holiday pay shall be paid at the rate of double time in addition to the pay he would receive for the paid holiday.
6.12	An employee who fails to qualify for pay on the paid ^ holiday and who works on such holiday shall be paid at the rate of double time for time worked.
6.13	An employee is entitled to holiday pay if the paid holiday occurs during his paid vacation leave, provided such employee works the last scheduled work day preceding and the first scheduled work day following his vacation leave and qualifies under conditions outlined in clause 6.10, Subject to mutual agreement, such employee may, if he so desires, be granted another day of leave within thirty (30) days before or after such holiday, provided such holiday does not occur during a shutdown period for vacation.
6.14	An employee will not be entitled to holiday pay while on leave of absence and such holiday occurs during his leave
19
of absence excepting in a case* wfiere an employee is granted a leave of absence to attend a meeting or convention pertaining to Company, Union, or Municipal matters or othe_ exceptions under leave of absences specifically provided in this Article.
6.15	An employee may request a leave of absence prior to and/or subsequent to a paid holiday. Department managers are authorized to grant a leave if such employee is not required to meet production requirements. Provided the leave is granted and is not in excess of seven (7) consecutive calendar days, the employee who otherwise qualifies shall be paid for such paid holiday.
6.16	An employee who is laid off on a date that is within five (5) normal working days immediately preceding the paid holiday specified in clause 6,0$ shall be paid for such holiday.
6.17	When the plant or any part thereof suspends operations, the employee who is laid off for a definite period not exceeding two (2) calendar weeks because of such suspension, shall upon re-hire be paid for the paid holiday or holidays that occur during such lay-off provided he otherwise qualifies under the conditions outlined in clause 6,10.
6,1$ The words, "holiday" or "holidays" as used in any and
all clauses of this Agreement mean and include only those days specified in clause 6,0$,
ARTICLE VII HASS POLICIES
7.01	Individual base rates and hourly rate ceilings in effect on the effective date of this Agreement shall remain in effect during the life of this Agreement, except that a change in any rate may be made by mutual agreement. Job descriptions will be accessible to the affected employees and the Onion time study.
It was agreed that the hourly rate8 of pay of the seven (7) groups, skilled trades and powerhouse engineers would be added as a reference at the end of the C.L.A.
7.02	Permanent incentive standards shall be established or revised in accordance with the time study practices of the Company which will provide for the accurate measurement of the physical effort required to perform operations.
In the revision of a permanent incentive standard, only the elements affected by a change in method, equipment, products, tools, materials, design, or other production conditions shall be revised.
20
As per the Memorandum of Agrecaunifrsigned on July 11, 1991,
it was mutually agreed between the parties that the Company has the right to a ona-tima restudy of all job function8 within the facility to accurately reflect physical effort, work content, review procedures, methods and evaluate impact on quality without regard to paying guaranteed elements or reference to paragraph two (2) of this clause in the establishment of Incentive Standards. If the use of incentive standards is expanded beyond Bead Manufacturing and Tire Building, the same will apply. In addition, if new equipment is installed which may be similar in nature to an existing operation, no reference will be made to guaranteed values in the establishment of the incentive standards. Once a new Incentive Standard(s) is issued, it can only be changed per paragraph two (2) of this clause. Measured Daywork Standards for all other operations and jobs will be established in accordance with this paragraph to set expected production targets and work content expected for the various hourly-rated production and non-production jobs within the plant. Measured Daywork Standards differ from Incentive Standards in that they are not used to establish employees' earnings and are, therefore, not subject to any guaranteed elements and can be changed as necessary to meet changing needs. The overall intent is that eight (8) hour8 work is expected of each employee for eight (8) hours pay.
Estimated Incentive Standards:	Estimated incentive stan-
dards may be established and used for certain periods of time to provide incentive standard coverage on various operations until permanent incentive standards are made effective. The life of an estimated standard is sixty (60) days, and can only be extended by mutual agreement.
When establishing an estimated incentive standard a procedure covering the operation must be drafted before time studies are taken.
Estimated standards differ from permanent standards in that the elemental values are not guaranteed, and when replaced by a permanent standard, the values of the permanent standard can be established without any reference to the elemental values of the estimated standard.
All data for estimated standards is to be available to the Union upon request.
Grievances on estimated standards can be negotiated up t o and including the third step Level. If no agreement is reached at third step between the Company and the Union, the estimated standard shall be automatically cancelled. All meetings requested by the Union or the Company on procedures, explanations or protests shall be paid for at the
customary hourly rate or base rate and average unit hour on the same basis as is now in effect on permanent standards.
Any increase negotiated on estimated standards shall be retroactive to the date of posting.
21
Estimated standards in effect" ^rT'the various department?
will be reviewed every two (2) months by the Company and tb Union, and the Industrial Engineering Department will t responsible for arranging these review meetings.
Where the earnings of an employee are lower than his "average earnings" during the above period, the Company shall upon request, replace such with:
a)	where an employee was paid on incentive immediately prior to the application of the estimated standard, payments in accordance with clause 7.17.
b)	where an employee was paid an hourly rate immediately prior to the application of the estimated standard, his hourly rate.
It is recognized there may be temporary periods of time when incentive standards may not conform to the foregoing due to minor changes in work content which may increase or decrease the incentive standard in effect. In such instances, the Company shall have the right to either cancel or apply such standards and if an increase in effort is required, the Company shall allow time work for work added in addition to the incentive standard.
7.03	(a) No employee shall be paid in excess of a 95 unit hour except that employees will have the opportunity to earn and be paid in excess of a 95 unit hour up t o a maximum of a 107 unit hour with a clean time sheet.
Definition of a Clsan Tima Sheet:
A clean time sheet i o a time sheet with no day work or lost time claimed but is comprised solely of work performed which is covered by incentive standards.
Exceptions to Clean Time Sheet Rule:
The following exceptions must be initialled by the employee's supervisor for payment beyond a 95 unit hour. If the employee's supervisor has not approved the claim, payment beyond a 95 unit hour will not be made:
(i)	attendance at a meeting requested by Management (ii) medical teats and safety drills as directed by Management or during safety work refusal per Ontario Health and Safety Act (iii) Employee Involvement meetings (iv) training in a controlled environment (for example, classroom)
(v)	experimental/developmantal time - only lost time which was not covered by an incentive labour standard and this time must be verified by a staff
individual in charge of the procedure a8 wall as the employee's supervisor.
(vi)	Instructors/Teachers - time spent while instructing other employees
(vii)	Temporary Supervision
(viii)	Union Business
22
(b) Spacial Bonus Plan for rncwtit'iv# Employ***
meant 1 vo aaploysas will be eligible for a bonus payment one* attaining in excess of 6.4 hours on ino*ntiv* at n 95 unit hour as detailed below:
(1)	For a regular: right (8) hour shift, bonus payment would be generated on attainment of more than 6.4 hours on incentive at a 95 unit hour. For shifts of different duration (e.g. 4 hours, 6 hours, etc.), this thrsshold of mor* than 80% at a 95 unit hour will be applied on a prorata basis.
Example :
4	hour shift - mors than 3,2 hours on incentive at a 95 unit hour
6 hour shift - more than 4,8 hour8 on inoantiva at a 95 unit hour
(2)	Praaiua payments for overtime hours worked will apply as dafinad in Articla VI. Employees working ovar-time on their fob or similar job on which they ara qual-ifiad and profieiant will hava thair tins sheets prorated for the calculation of bonus,
Example:
10 hour shift - aora than 8.0 houra on incantiva at a
95 unit hour
12 hour shift - mora than 9.6 hours on inoantiva at a 95 unit hour
(3)	Glossary of Taras Thrashold:
6.4 hours at a 95 unit hour or 608 units on inosn-tivs. This is tha astablishad oritaria which an smployae must exceed undar the bonus plan in ordor
to ba eligible for bonus,
Bonus Vnlua:	Tira Building $.000133
Bands	$.000131
This is a fixed number which will ba usad in tha calculation of tho Bonus Unit Valua,
Bonus Unit Value:
(Units Gsnaratad on Inoantiva - Thrashold) X Bonus valua
If tho number equals saro (0) or is a negative valua no bonus would ba applicable.
Maximum Bonus Unit Value:
[760 units (8.0 hrs. 3 95 unit hour) - 608 units (Threshold)] X Bonus Value
(4)	Calculation of Bonus
[Total Inoantiva Units (up to 760 units) - Thrashold] X Bonus Valua X Total Inoantiva Units Gsnaratad on Inoantiva ■ Bonus to be Paid
23
BONDS PAYMENTS
Hours on Incentive
0	95 Unit Hour	Daily Bonus
Hrs.
6.4
6.5
6.6
6.7
6.8
6.9
7.0
7.1
7.2
7.3
7.4
7.5
7.6
7.7
7.8
7.9 8.0 8.0
Unite
608
617.5 627
636.5 646
655.5 665
674.5 684
693.5 703
712.5 722
731.5 741
750.5 800 856
(100 Unit Hour) (107 Unit Hour)
Tire Building $ .00 .78 1.58 2,41 3.26 4.14 5.04 5.96 6.91
7.88
8.88
9.90
10.95
12.01
13.10
14.22
16.17
17.30
Beada $ .00 .75 1.56 2.37 3.21 4.07 4.96 5.87 6.80 7.76
8.74
9.75 10.78 11.83
12.91 14.00
15.92 17.04
(5) Time sheets will be prorated for the calculation o f Bonus per the '’Exceptions t o Clean Time Sheet Rule" except, when temporarily reassigned per clause 7.18 (a),
(b)	or (c) , the employee must have attained 7.0 or more hours on incentive; whoi assigned under 7.18	(d) no
proration shall occur.
7.04	Incentive standards may contain allowances for physically restricted increments of time or be supplemented by fixed process allowance to arrive at the incentive pay standard. The fact that supplementation may be currently necessary does not prohibit the Company from replacing supplementation with true physical work at some future time.
7.05	A new or revised incentive standard which has been posted for four (4) or more hours shall become effective at the starting time of the shift immediately following the posting of said standard. After an employee has worked on a new or revised incentive standard for a period of four (4) days but not exceeding fifteen (15) days, he may through his steward, protest such standard by a written grievance to his Dspartment/Area Manager. The grievances shall be negotiated
24
to a final settlement.	.........
Any adjustments or settlement made shall be retroactive to the date such a standard was made effective, but shall not apply to an employee not on the active payroll as of the date of the final settlement. An employee who is on leave of absence, pension, severance award, or laid off as of date of final settlement, shall be included.
Upon request of the Union, the Company shall make available at the Company's office, the time and pool sheets used in determining such retroactive pay. Whm an incentive standard becomes effective and there is less than four (4) days production, but more than twenty-four (24) hours production available in the following fifteen (15) working days, the twenty-four (24) hours of production shall be considered as the trial period. Whm there is less than twenty-four (24) hours production available in the fifteen (15) working days, the first shift production shall be considered as the trial period.
An incentive standard, or process allowance schedule, that is posted, tried and protested and because of protest is revised, shall not require a further trial period.
During the period^ of fifteen (15) working days after a new or revised incentive standard has been posted, same may be revised provided an error has been made in compilation or all conditions pertaining to the establishment of such standard have not been studied.
The application or cancellation of fixed process allowances for physically restricted increments of time or variable process allowance schedules in connection with an incentive standard may be protested and negotiated under the same conditions as provided in this clause 7.05 for the protest and negotiations of incentive standards.
7.06	When a re-issued incentive standard is posted, it shall become effective twenty-four (24) hours following the posting of said standard.
7.07	When time studies are being taken for the purpose of establishing incentive standards, job procedure (s) shall be posted forty-eight (48) hours prior to the study. No employee of the Company in an official administrative or supervisory capacity shall take part in any work performed by the employee while such studies are in progress.
7.08	When an incentive standard is protested and is under consideration at Step #3 of the grievance procedure, the Company, upon request of the Union, will permit a Time Study Engineer of the International Union, U.R.C.L. & P.W.A. to make studies of the operation covered by the disputed incentive standard.
Such Union Time Study Engineer must be experienced in the time study practices of the Company and must use the Company
25
work measurement techniques irUtti^'studies. Any such studies by said engineer shall be made in conjunction with a Tim ■Study Engineer of the Company and if such studies are t o be used in further negotiation and/or arbitration, a comparison of the results of the studies shall be made prior to or during further negotiations and/or arbitration procedure.
Upon request, pertinent time study data and other information used or related in determining any new, revised, or protested incentive standard will be made available to the Union for inspection in the Company's office.
7.09	The supervisor will notify the employee of a change made on the employee's time sheet where such changes will affect the employee's earnings. The employee shall be notified of such change on his next working shift, or as soon as possible and will be given a copy of time sheet in question.
If the change is of a recurring nature and the employee does not agree with the change and same is protested through the grievance procedure, the employee shall mark his time sheet as instructed by his supervisor until a final decision is rendered.
7.10	Average unit hour shall mean the arithmetic average paid unit hour including any bonus payments per clause 7.03
(b) for all work performed by the employee on his regular job during the next last pay period in which he worked a majority of hours on such job covered by incentive _ standards that were not under protest and on which no special allowance or guarantee was paid. The bonus payment to be included will be calculated by dividing total bonus paid over the pay period by the total number of incentive hours. When standards are protested between the fourth (4th) and fifteenth (15th) day	of the	trial period specified	in clause	7.05,
such protest shall be deemed to have been in effect on the first day of the trial period for the purpose of applying this paragraph. Said average unit hour shall be established by the Company Payroll Department from the employee's weekly payroll card. Except that when it is not practical to determine the average unit hour by this procedure, such average unit hour	will be	determined by another	mutually	agreed
procedure.
7.11	Average earnings shall mean total earnings, including
any bonus	payments per clause 7.03(b),	excluding	shift
premium and overtime premium, paid the employee during the next last pay period divided by total hours worked during said pay period. Except that when it is not practical to determine	average	earnings by the above	procedure,	such
average earnings will be determined by another mutually agreed procedure.
7.12	Effective June 1, 1992 the hiring rates for:
26
a)	Incentive employees"~Wil'3T be- the base rate of the job to which he is hired. The base rate of the job will be the minimum and maximum guarantees throughout the learning schedule.
b) Hourly rated employees will be the hiring rate of the job to which he is hired as indicated on the learning schedule issued to cover the job.
7.13 a) A shift premium of forty-five (45) cents per hour shall be paid for hours worked on the third shift (3:45 p.m. to 11:45 p.m,) and fifty (50) cents per hour ^or
worked on the first shift (11:45 p.m. to 7:45 a.m.)	-
b)	Shift premium shall not be included in the calculations of an employee's overtime rate.
c)	A premium of $1.75 per shift shall be paid to each
employee who is required to hand over a running piece of equipment or operation to the next shift. This payment is in lieu of the five (5) minute washup time at shift end. When the Company wishes to discontinue this practice on a piece of equipment or operation, it will give twenty-four (24) hours notice where possible to the affected employees.
When an employee leaves his machine early to attend a meeting (including Employee Involvement or training) the premium shall be paid per the following:
i) If an employee from the same shift is assigned to cover for an employee attending a meeting, the employee so assigned shall receive the premium, ii) If an employee is requested to report for work early to cover for an employee attending a meeting, the employee leaving shall receive the premium, iii) There must be a next shift in order for the premium to be paid.
iv) No more than ono "hand over" payment per machine per shift will be paid.
7.14	The Company agrees to continue the present practice of permitting a rest period not in excess of fifteen (15) minutes per shift and a lunch period not in excess of twenty-five (25) minutes per shift.
7.15	(a) When an employee id required to attend Special
Meetings (such as, State of the Business, Plant Manager or those called by the Department/Axea Manager), Employee Involvement Meetings, or on Union Business or Safety Committee business, he will be paid average earnings.
(b) Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, experienced employees will be paid the base rate or hourly rate of the job to which they are assigned and shall be guaranteed such base rate or hourly rate as minimum earnings.
27
SPECIAL PAYMBNTS-'AFPLYING TO EXPERIENCED INCENTIVE EMPLOYEES
7.16	Under certain conditions, experienced employees nor'4
mally working on incentive operations may be limited for temporary periods of time in their opportunity to maintain their normal incentive earnings. In such situations covered by clauses 7.17,	7.13,	7.19,	7.20,	7.21 and 7,22 listed
below, employees shall be guaranteed special rate payments as provided herein. However, employees receiving any of the special rate payments listed below, are expected to perform at a level consistent with additional effort for which incentive payment is designed to compensate.
7.17	When an incentive employee is required to work on his regular job and there is no incentive standard available, he will be compensated at his average unit hour at his customary base sate.
7,13 When an incentive employee is temporarily assigned to a job and there is work available on his job, he shall be paid the greater of:
a)	His average unit hour at his customary base rate, or
b)	The rate of the job to which he is taaporarily assigned if greater, or
c)	The base rate of the job to which he is temporarily
assigned and the unit hour which he develops on such job.
d)	If assigned in class, the employee will receive no
guarantee but will be paid the base rate of tha job to which he is temporarily assigned and the unit hour and bonus he develops on suoh job.
Examples:
-	First step builder assigned to another first step machine
-	First step builder assigned to second step machine and is qualified
-	Second stap builder assigned to a first step machine and is qualified.
-	Bead fill flip operator assigned to another fill flip machine
- Assigned to any bead malting equipment and is qualified
- Assigned to any building machine first or second stage and is qualified.
When there is a reduction in production and there is no work available to him on the job from which he was assigned, and provided he is qualified, he shall be paid in accordance with (b) of this clause if to an hourly rated job or c) of th is clause if to an incentive job.
7,19	When an incentive employee is assigned to developmental or experimental work, he shall be paid his average earnings for the period of an assignment when he is specifi-
28
cally assigned to perform wor)rerf-'a- special nature under the direct supervision of a member of supervision or the Technical staff, whether or not continuously present during the period such experimental work is in progress, for the express purpose of developing or experimenting on new manufacturing processes, as contrasted with routine changes in production methods. The time to be claimed on the employee's time sheet is the amount of lost time which was not covered by the incentive standard pertaining to the operation.
7.20	When an incentive employee is requested to remain in the plant and is idle due to mechanical delays, waiting on stock or orders, he shall be paid at seventy percent (70%) of his average unit hour at his customary base rate. However, when an employee accepts assigned work in place of enforced idleness, he shall be paid eighty percent (80%) of his average unit hour at his customary base rate.
In cases of idleness due to reasons other than those listed above, when an employee is assigned other work, he shall be paid as follows:
a)	If work is available on his job, he shall be paid in accordance with clause 7.18.
b)	If work is not available on his job, he shall be paid in accordance with this clause.
7.21	If the earnings of an incentive employee are reduced because of abnormal stock conditions, he will be paid for such amount of extra time required for the handling of the abnormal stock as is reasonable under the circumstances at seventy percent (70%) of his average unit hour; provided he has exercised an effort satisfactory to supervision under the circumstances. In order to benefit under this clause, the employee must report the stock condition to his supervisor at the time the condition occurs.
7.22	If an employee is assigned to a group operation on a temporary basis and because of this temporary assignment the experienced employees are prevented temporarily from producing normal earnings, the experienced employees shall be guaranteed their average unit hour for such period of time as may reasonably be required for the temporarily assigned employee to attain normal production. The temporarily assigned employee will be paid according to the wage payment clause applicable to his case.
7.23	If the circumstances are such that the assignment of an employee temporarily to a group operation should not be reasonable cause for any decrease in the group output, no guarantee shall be extended.
7.24	a) When the productive work of an incentive employee decreases without proper cause to less than only sixty (o0)
29
units per hour, the Company may'-pay-only for actual productive work performed upon giving written notice to the^ employee and a copy to his Union steward.	\
b)	In any instance where there is an unjustifiable decrease in the performance of an employee working on any of the guarantees set forth in Article VII, such guarantee may be withdrawn upon giving written notice to the employee and a copy to his Union steward.
c)	When a guarantee is removed in accordance with (b) above, and it is not possible to measure the performance of the employee by an incentive standard applicable to the operation which he is performing, he will be paid sixty (60) units per hour.
PAYMENTS APPLYING TO HOURLY-RATED EMPLOYEES
7.25	When an hourly-rated employee is temporarily assigned work other than in his regular job, he shall be paid as follows:
1,	If he is assigned to a job on incentive, he will be paid the greater of:
a)	His regular job hourly rate, or
b)	The base rate of the job to which he is assigned and the unit hour he produces.
2.	If he is assigned to an hourly-rated job, he will be paid as follows:
a)	If to a higher hourly-rated job on which he has experience and he produces at a level of performance required of an experienced employee, he will be paid at a rate determined by management which will not be below his regular job hourly rate or greater than the hourly rate of the job assigned.
b)	If to a lower hourly-rated job, he will be paid his regular job hourly rate.
c)	If to a job which has no established rate, he will be paid his regular job hourly rate.
PAYMENT APPLYING TO EXPERIENCED INCENTIVE & HOURLY-RATED EMPLOYEES
7.26	When an employee reports for work at his scheduled shift time without being notified to the contrary, or reports for work at a time requested by his supervisor and
is assigned no work or works for a lesser period than four (4) hours because of some reason within the Company's control, payment shall be made for a minimum of four (4) hours. Incentive employees shall be paid seventy percent (30%) or their average unit hour at their customary base rate and hourly-rated employees shall be paid their customary hourly rate. It is understood that reporting for work means the
30
employee is in his department" ■■’ns'ady 'f or work, or personal contact is made with the supervisor at his scheduled starting time.
An employee shall be considered to have been properly notified if such notification is made by the Company no later than one (1) hour before his scheduled starting time. Reporting for work pay will not be paid:
a)	When the opportunity to work temporarily on suitable jobs is refused.
b)	When an employee is absent from work for personal reasons not covered by a leave of absence prior to reporting for work.
c)	Where an employee fails to record with his supervisor or personnel office his current address or telephone number, and therefore, the Company is unable to notify him not to report for work.
d)	In cases of stoppage of work caused by labour disturbances directly or indirectly within the plant.
e)	In cases caused by mechanical or electrical breakdowns where such substantially affect operations in a department or plant, catastrophe, fire, or any cause beyond the Company's control.
7.27	An employee on the payroll of the Company who is excused by the Company solely because of the death and funeral of a parent, parent-in-law, son, daughter, brother, sister, husband, wife, grandparents, great-grandparents/ brother-in-law, sister-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, or grandchildren of the employee, or the spouse's grandparents, great-grandparents, brother-in-law and sister-in-law (the category of relatives herein specified includes legal and blood relationships, half-relatives, and step-relatives and foster parent and foster child) he shall be compensated as follows:
a)	Incentive employee at his average earnings.
b)	Hourly-rated employee, at his customary hourly rate,
for time so lost by him from his regular working schedule within the normal work week by reason of such absence, up to three days for each such death and funeral.
When death in the family causes the absence of an employee from work, the intervening scheduled days off will be discounted in determining three (3) consecutive days referred to above.
If, however, the funeral is not attended, he will be paid for lost time on only one of the above mentioned days.
This provision to apply when it is necessary for the employee to make arrangements and/or attend the funeral. If the employee is eligible for any other form of remuneration to which the Company contributes, payment shall not be made
31
under this Section for such day-'-w'days,
It is understood that "in-law" relationships will be broken by divorce but not death of the blood relative who estac lished the "in-law" relationship, unless and until the inlaw relative or employee remarries.
7,28	An employee scheduled to take an accounting inventory shall be paid as follows:
a)	Incentive employee at his average unit hour at his customary base rate,
b)	Hourly-rated employee at his customary hourly rate.
Seniority employees in the department who are qualified will be offered such work from shifts in the following order:
1st - 7:45 a.m. to 3:45 p.m.
2nd - 3:45 p.m. to 11:45 p,m.
Any other employees required shall be scheduled.
Every effort will be made to give an employee three (3) days notice of requirement before the scheduled day of inventory. No overtime premiums shall be paid for such work except under clause 6,05 or when the employee has worked more than eight (8) hours on the day he worked on inventory.
7,29	An employee who reports for or serves on jury duty or subpoenaed witness for the crown shall be compensated the difference between the amount paid to him for such service as follows:
a)	Incentive employee at his average earnings.
b)	Hourly-rated employee at his customary rate, for time lost from his scheduled work shift due to such service, provided:
1) The employee notifies his supervisor within twenty-four (24) hours after the receipt of notice of selection.
2) Furnishes the Company with a written statement signed by the appropriate public official which shall contain the dates, time served, and amount paid.
'	3) Employee must serve as a juror or prospective
juror four (4) or more hours to be exempt from working his daily Shift.
Should an employee's scheduled vacation be affected due t o
his selection for jury duty or subpoenaed witness for the crown, his supervisor, upon request will reschedule the employee's vacation.
7,30	1) An employee who _is injured or becomes sick in the
factory and who is required to obtain treatment at the Health Centre or who is required by the Company to obtain
32
treatment at other medical l'dcarxib'n's*, shall be paid only for such time lost during his work shift as follows:
(a)	(i) Experienced employees will be paid their average
earnings.
(ii)	Learners will be paid their average earnings in accordance with the learning schedule.
(b)	Hourly-rated employee, at his customary hourly rate.
Payment will not be made to an employee receiving such medical treatment outside his regular working hours or on days on which he does not work.
2) Employees who, due to a blood test are removed from their regular job to another job at the request of the Medical Department, and for the purpose of rehabilitation so that they may return to their regular job, shall be compensated for time spent in such rehabilitation as follows:
(a)	<i) Experienced incentive employees at eighty percent
(80%) of their average unit hour.
(ii)	Experienced hourly rated employees at their regular hourly rate.
(b)	(i) Incentive learners at eighty percent (80%) of
their average earnings.
(ii)	Hourly rated learners at the hourly rate of the learning schedule period to which the learner has progressed.
If after an employee is moved from his regular job, it is subsequently determined that he will not return to his regular job, payment per section 2) of this clause is cancelled and the employee shall be paid in accordance with the pertinent clause in Article vii.
An employee who is assigned by the Company during his working hours to obtain a blood or audiogram test, or other job-related medical examinations, shall be paid in accordance with 1(a) of this clause if an incentive worker and 1(b) of this clause i f an hourly rated worker for the time so lost from his normal work shift.
When an employee is assigned at times other than above, he shall be paid for such time by a payment of one (1) hour at his average earnings (excluding overtime).
WAGE PAYMENTS FOR LEARNERS
7.31	Except as otherwise provided in clauses 7.32,	7.33,
7.34, 7.35, 7.36 and 7.37, when an employee is classified as a learner, all wage payments for which he qualifies under this Agreement will be made at the rates provided in the learner‘s schedule for the job he is learning.
7.32	When a learner's actual earnings on an incentive job exceed the appropriate learner's schedule payment, he will
33
be paid his actual earnings.	* ‘
7.33	When an employee is classified as a learner because
is transferred from his former job when no work is available, to equalize hours, to fulfill seniority requirements, or at his own option, he will if he has three (3) months or more of credited service be paid the following payments instead of the learner's schedule payments:
(a)	If on an incentive job, he will be paid the i :se rate of the job.
(b)	If on an hourly-rated job, he will be paid according to the second period of the learner1's schedule,
7.34	When an employee is classified as a learner because he is transferred at management's request and there is work remaining available on the job from which he transfers, he shall be paid as follows:
(a)	If he is transferred to a job on incentive, he shall be paid the base rate of the job to which he is transferred, and the unit hour he produces except that he shall be guaranteed his former regular job base rate at his average unit hour or his former regular job hourly rate for a period not to exceed the learning period of the job to which he is transferred.
(b)	If he is transferred to a higher hourly-rated job, he shall be paid in accordance with the learning schedule of that job, but shall be guaranteed his former regular job base rate at his average unit hour or his former regular job hourly rate for a period not to exceed the learning period of the job to which he is transferred.
7.35	A learner who reports for or serves on jury duty or subpoenaed witness for- the crown shall be compensated for the time lost from his scheduled work shift for such service, the difference between the amount paid to him for such service and the payment he would have received as a learner
had he worked such time, provided:
(a)	The employee notifies his supervisor within twenty-four (24) hours after the receipt of notice of selection.
(b)	Furnishes the Company with a written statement signed by the appropriate public official which shall :ontain the dates, time served, and the amount paid.
(c)	Employee must serve as a juror or prospective juror four (4) or more hours to be exempt from working his daily shift.
Should an employee's scheduled vacation be affected due to his selection for jury duty or subpoenaed witness for the crown, his supervisor, upon request, will reschedule the employee's vacation.
34
7.36	When a learner is tempor'af'fTy assigned work other than which he is learning, he shall be paid as follows:
(a)	If he is assigned to an incentive job on which he has qualified experience and he produces a level of performance required of an experienced employee, he shall be paid the average paid unit hour of the other employees on the job at the base rate of the job, or the unit hour he develops at the base rate of the job, whichever is higher. If he lacks experience on the incentive job, he shall be paid the learning schedule guarantee of the job from which he is temporarily assigned or the base rate of the job to which he is assigned, whichever is higher.
(b)	If he is assigned t o an hourly-rated job on which he has qualified experience and he produces a level of performance required of an experienced employee, he shall be paid the hourly rate of the job. If he lacks experience on the hourly-rated job, to which he is assigned, he shall be paid the learning schedule guarantee of the job from which he is assigned, or the base rate for the hourly-rated job, whichever is higher.
7.37 When a learner is transferred during his learning period to another job, he shall be paid as follows:
(a)	If in the first or second period of his learning schedule, he will enter the first period of the learning schedule of the job to which he is transferred.
(b)	If in the third or subsequent periods of his learning schedule, he will enter the next preceding period of the learning schedule from which he was transferred.
PAYMENTS APPLYING TO LEARNERS, SPECIAL TEACHERS,
AND EXPERIENCED EMPLOYEES WHEN LEARNERS ARE EMPLOYED IN SINGLE OR GROUP OPERATIONS
7.38	When l earners are employed in single or group operations, payments shall conform to the policy relative to the payment of learners, special teachers, and experienced employees in groups which is as follows: 1
1. To calculate the total group earned or paid units, the following procedure will be used:
(a)	To calculate total earned units with no allowance schedule:
Total production times the incentive standard equals the total earned units.
(b)	To calculate total pay units with an allowance schedule :
Total production times the incentive standard equals the total earned units.
35
Total earned units ditfiSScnsiy the non-teaching expe rienced hours equals the earned unit hours.
The earned unit hour modified by the allowance sche*-dule equals the paid unit hour.
The paid unit hour times the non-teaching experienced hour equals the total group paid units.
(O To calculate the total pay units on operations with a variable capacity attainment schedule:
(i)	Total units of production multiplied by allowed minutes per unit of production equals total allowed minutes.
(ii)	Total allowed minutes divided by total chargeable minutes equals per cent of capacity attainment.
(iii)	Apply variable capacity attainment schedule to per cent of capacity attainment to determine pay unit hour.
(iv)	Pay unit hour multiplied by total chargeable hours equals total pay units.
2.	Allowance schedules will not apply to learners except on those days during the learning period when a learner on an incentive schedule earns in excess of a sixty (60) unit hour or the unit maximum, whichever is applicable. Under this circumstance, the process allowance schedule indicated on the bulletin sheet for the operation will be applied.
3.	The payment of learners, special teachers, and experienced employees working on single or group operations will comply with the following procedures as they apply:
(a)	Learner working on an individual operation on which a special teacher has been designated:
(i) Production and hours shall be reported on a group time sheet.
(ii) The special teacher shall be guaranteed his average unit hour at his customary base rate.
(iii)	The total earned or paid units shall be credited to the special teaches up to his average unit hour at his customary base rate.
(iv)	Any remaining units shall be credited to the learner up to the special teacher’s average unit hour.
(v)	All remaining units shall be distributed equally among the learner and the special
teacher.
(b)	Two-man group operation where a learner or learners are working with one experienced employee:
36
(i) A group time 'Sfh®St“Shall be used to report '	hours and production.
(ii) The experienced employee shall be designated as the special teacher and shall be paid his
average unit hour at his customary base rate.
(iii)	The experienced employee shall be credited with the total earned or paid units up to his average unit hour at his customary base rate.
(iv)	Any remaining units shall be credited to the learner or learners up to the unit hour of the experienced employee.
(v)	All remaining units shall be distributed equally among learner or learners and the experienced employee.
(vi)	In this group only, the special teacher's hours will be considered as the non-teaching experienced hours for determining the earned unit hour for process allowance application.
(c)	Two-man group operation where a learner or learners are working with two experienced employees:
(i) The production and hours shall be reported on a group time sheet.
(ii) One of the experienced employees shall be designated as a special teacher and shall be paid his average unit hour at his customary base rate.
(iii)	The total earned	or paid units shall be
credited to the	non-teaching experienced
employee up to his average unit hour at his customary base rate.
(iv)	Any remaining units shall be credited to the special teacher up to his average unit hour at his customary base rate.
(v)	Any remaining units shall be credited to the learner or learners up to the lowest average unit hour of the experienced employees.
(vi)	All remaining units shall be distributed
equally among the	experienced employee and
the learner or learners.
(d)	A learner or learners working with experienced employees on group operations normally requiring three or more employees.
(i) The production and hours shall be reported on a group time sheet.
(ii) One experienced employee shall be designated as special teacher and shall be guaranteed his average unit hour at his customary base
37
rate.
(iii) The total earned or paid units shall Y" credited to the non-teachingi experience^ employees up to their average unit hour at their customary base rate.
(iv) Any remaining units shall be credited to the ■	special teacher up to his average unit hour
at his customary base rate.
(v)	Any remaining units shall be credited to the learner or iaarnsrs up to the lowest average unit hour of the experienced employee,
(vi)	All remaining units shall be distributed equally among the learner or learners and experienced employees.
7.39	Learning schedules as expressed in this Article shall mean where such are in effect.
SPECIAL ALLOWANCE FOR INCENTIVE AND HOURLY-RATED EMPLOYEES
7.40	(a) All employees are entitled to a wasbup time to be taken five (5) minutes prior to tho end of their normal
d shift unless on a designated continuous running operation where clause 7.13 (c) will apply.
(b) An employee who is assigned to an excessively dirty job, or working with designated substances, will be
permitted time off for wash-up. It is understood that the Company will exercise the primary control of the time and occurrence of this payment.
7.41	No full-time or part-time supervisor or salaried-employee shall normally perform work that would be done by employees within the bargaining unit.
ARTICLE VIII SENIORITY
8.01	In the event of any inconsistency between the provisions of this Agreement and "The Re-mstatement in Civil Employment Act, 1942" or any statute or order-in-council passed or issued in amendment or substitution thereof, the provisions of said Act shall to the extent of such inconsistency prevail.
8.02	Each employee in order to benefit by the seniority provisions of this Agreement, must keep the Company informed of his current address and telephone number at all times by notifying the Company as follows:
(a) An employee on the active payroll will notify his
38
supervisor by signing tKe'Toritf available.
<b) Former employees who are subject to recall will notify the Personnel Office.
(c)	Failure to comply with the foregoing could mean a loss of overtime offering, Supplementary Unemployment Benefits, call-in pay or transfer consideration, or a possible delay in recall.
8.03 The Company will maintain a service list in each department, in view of all employees, showing the Company service date and the department service date of each member of the department.
8 >04 An employee's hiring date shall be the date of the employee's first working day for the Company, but same shall be changed when required by other clauses in this Agreement.
3.05	An employee shall not acquire seniority privileges until he completes three (3) months service with the Company, at which time his hiring date shall be deemed to be his Company service date and such service shall be deemed to ’ be "credited service". An employee with three (3) or more months continuous Company service shall enjoy back service credit as set. forth in Clause 8,16. The three (3) months referred to in this clause shall be deemed the probationary period for all employees.
8.06	A part-time employee shall not acquire or accumulate credited service for seniority purposes while employed as such. A part-time employee is one that by choice is not ^ prepared to work, or does not work the scheduled hours of his shift or occupation. A part-time employee shall not by custom or practice, work daily hours that shall exceed five
(5)	hours per day while employed as such.
When a full-time employee changes his status to a part-time employee, he shall receive credit for service up to the date of change. When such employee returns to full-time employment, he shall receive credit only for the time while employed as a full-time employee.
An employee accepting part-time employment in place of layoff shall be considered as a laid off employee in determination of credited service while employed as such.
An employee who is required to temporarily work less than normal hours due to his personal health, shall be considered a full-time employee for the purpose of accumulating credited service only during such rehabilitation period.
8.07	An employee shall have job seniority when he completes three (3) months of continuous credited service on the job
on which he is hired or to which he is transferred, at which time his credited service shall be deemed to be his job seniority. An employee who is transferred to replace an
39
\_n
employee on leave of absence*"tfficlet Clause 10.06 shall be considered an employee on loan for such period.	^
8.08	When an employee has job seniority and is transferred he shall continue to accumulate job seniority on such job until he acquires job seniority on the job to whi :h he is transferred.
8.09	Notwithstanding Clause 8.07 and 8.08, an employee who
has job seniority and who is transferred in accordance with Clause 8.11 and the job on which he had job seniority becomes open within two years from the date of his transfer from such job shall return to his job provided no employee has prior rights under Clause 8.13, The employe:	who thus
returns shall be credited with his job seniority >n such job as of his date of return. This Clause shall not apply where an employee is transferred under 8.11 and exercises job progression or transfers under 8.19 within the two (2) years herein specified.
8.10	An employee shall have residence rights when he completes three (3) months of continuous credited service in the department in which he is hired or to which he is transferred.
8.11	When it becomes necessary to lay-off employees, in a job classification, employees who have no seniority privileges will be laid off first. If after the layoff of such employees a further layoff is necessary, then employees with seniority privileges will be laid off in accordance with their seniority as follows:
For the purpose of layoff, there are two (2) types of jobs:
(1)	Classified
(2)	General
which are listed under a supplemental agreement. In accordance with the procedures herewith set forth, an employee who is subject to layoff from his job will displace the employee with the least amount of credited_ service among those employees who have less credited service.
An employee must have "qualified experience" on a classified job in order to exercise any bumping rights on such job. "Qualified experience" shall mean that the employee has worked on the job or similar jobs as defined in this Clause, and providing that his productivity is equivalent to that of an average employee on such job or jobs.
An employee who is subject to layoff in a group operation and who has qualified experience on more than one :ob in such group, and provided he has job seniority on a job within the group, shall first displace an employee n the group in the reverse order of "job progression3 (which are listed under a supplemental agreement) for such group but shall not displace an employee with more credited service.
40
Failing placement in the groh^T*'Ee shall follow the procedure.
Application of the procedures laid down in Clause 6.02 of Article VI are t o be made in conjunction with lay-offs under Article VIII of this Agreement.
The Company and Union agree:
(a)	to review and update all general and classified jobs before December 31/ 1992; and
(b)	all revised job progressions will be reviewed by the Union President and Manager Industrial Relations or their designates prior to implementation.
THE PROCEDURE
A An employee who was not transferred into the department and who has three or more months of credited service shall, in the event of layoff, displace employees with less credited service in the following order:
1)	Oh Classified jobs in the department
2)	Gt general jobs in the department.
EXCEPTION:	An employee who has obtained qualified exper-
ience in other departments in the division through other transfers shall be placed under "B" in place of this section "A” .
B An employee who has been transferred into a department and has acquired job seniority in said department, shall in the event of layoff, displace employees with less credited service in the following order:
1)	Gki classified jobs in the department
2)	On general jobs in the department
3)	Gki classified jobs in the division
C An employee who has been transferred into a department and has acquired residence rights but not job seniority in said department and has job seniority in some other department, shall in the event of a layoff displace employees with less credited service in the following order :
II) Gii classified jobs in his resident department.
2)	On the classified job on which he has acquired job seniority.
3)	Gii classified jobs in the department in which he has acquired job seniority.
4)	On classified jobs in the division in which he has acquired job seniority.
5)	On general jobs in the department in which he has acquired job senior ity.
41
D An employee who has been "CfSis'fBifred into a department and has acquired residence rights but not job seniority in said department and has job seniority in some othe\ department, but the job on which he has job seniority ha& been eliminated shall in the event of layoff, displace employees with less credited service in the following
1) Oh classified jobs in his resident department.
2) On classified jobs in his resident division.
3)	On general jobs in his resident department.
E An employee who has been transferred into a department but has not acquired resident rights in said department and has job seniority in some other department shall in the event of layoff, displace employees with less credited service in the following order:
1)	On the classified job on which he has acquired job seniority.
2)	Oki classified jobs in the department in which he has acquired job seniority.
3)	On classified jobs in the division in which he has acquired job seniority.
4)	Oi general jobs in the department in which he has acquired job seniority.
F An employee who has been transferred into a department but has not acquired resident rights in said department
and has job seniority in some other department but:
a)	The job on which he has job seniority has been eliminated, shall, in the event of layoff, displace employees with less credited service in the following order:
1)	On classified jobs in the department in which he had job seniority.
2)	On classified jobs in the division in which he had acquired job seniority.
3)	Oh general jobs in the department in which he had acquired job seniority.
b)	The department in which he had acquired job seniority has been eliminated, shall in the event of layoff, displace employees with less credited service in the following order:
1)	On classified jobs in the division in which he had acquired job seniority.
2)	Oti general jobs in the department in which he had the most service in the division in which he had acquired seniority.
G An employee who has been transferred into a department
42
but has not acquired residSrf&S fights in said department and who has residence rights but not job seniority in some other department shall, in the event of layoff, displace employees with less credited service in the following order:
1)	On classified jobs in the department in which he has acquired residence rights.
2)	On classified jobs in the division in which he has acquired residence rights.
3)	On general jobs in the department in which he has acquired residence rights.
H An employee who has three or more months of credited service and who has been transferred into a department but has acquired no residence rights in any department, shall in the event of layoff, displace employees with le ss credited service in the following order:
1)	On classified jobs in the department from which he was last transferred.
2)	Gi classified jobs in the division from which he was last transferred.
3)	On general jobs in the department from which he was last transferred.
I	An employee who has three or more months of credited service and who has been transferred into a department but has acquired no residence rights in any department, and the department from which he was last transferred has been eliminated, shall in the event of layoff, displace employees with less credited service in the following 1
1)	Gi classified jobs in the division from which he was last transferred.
2)	Gi general jobs in the department in which he has the most service in the division from which he was last transferred.
J When an employee with two (2) or more years of credited service has_ exhausted his rights under the foregoing procedures in this clause and would otherwise be laid off, he shall displace the employee with the least credited service in the following order, provided he has more credited service and is capable and/or qualified of performing the job of such lesser credited service employee :
1)	On classified jobs in the factory on which he has qualified experience.
2)	Gi general jobs in the factory.
EXCEPTION:	Employees on mill operations in Department
64521, 64533 and 64531 shall first displace employees on such mills before application of J: 1 and 2.
43
K Notwithstanding the foregbTng,”'the"parties may by mutual agreement permit an employee who would displace a-employee with the least amount of credited service on, general job, to displace any employee with less credited service than he has on a general job.
For the purpose of this clause, departments are grouped in the following divisions:
I	Mixing	Department 64521
Extruding Calendering
Receiving and Raw Stores Cement House
Physical Testing Laboratory
II	Tire Preparation Tire Building
III	Tire Curing Final Finish Bladder Making
Quality Assurance
IV	Maintenance Power House Floor Space
V	Warehouse
8.12	The Department/Araa Manager shall review the list of layoffs of seniority and employees with the department steward and the President or Vice-President of the Union in order to avoid any error.
8.13	An employee on layoff who has recall rights shall be recalled to job vacancies by the application of theory YPrafi procedure of layoff as set forth in Clause 8.11. An employee who has been transferred under Clause 8.11, and is not located on the job on which he has job seniority at the time of a vacancy occurring on a job on which he has qualified experience, shall be returned to such vacancy in line with his credited service before any move under job progression or application under Clause 8.19 is honoured.
When a job vacancy occurs on a general job in the plant, the
employee on layoff from the plant, with the most credited service among those that have one (1) or more years of credited service, shall be recalled to such a vacancy before an application for transfer under Clause 8.19 is honoured.
8.14	Before hiring a new employee, the Company will give preference to qualified employees who are on layoff and who have recall rights.
8.15. An employee who has three or more months of Company service at time of layoff and who is rehired to a job other
44
64533
64531
64141
64523
64151
64541
64551
64561
64571
64591
64943
64131
64133
64135
83511
he was"Tcfi'3 ‘off, shall be considered
than the job from which a transferred employee.
8.16 In no case of termination of employment, other than surplus help lay off, will back service be credited on rehire. An employee who has less than three (3) months continuous company service at date of layoff will not be credited with back service on rehire. An employee who has three (3) months continuous company service but less than two (2) years' credited service at date of layoff, will on rehire be credited with time spent on layoff provided he is rehired within twelve (12) months of date of layoff.
An employee with two (2) or more years of credited service at date of layoff and who is not rehired within twelve (12) months of layoff but who is rehired within the period of his recall rights hereunder specified, shall upon rehire be credited only with the credited service he would have at the end of the twelfth (12th) month on layoff.
A An employee who has three (3) or more months but less than two (2) years of credited service at date of layoff shall have recall rights for twelve (12) months from date of layoff.
B An employee who has two (2) or more but less than five (5) years of credited service at date of layoff shall have recall rights for twenty-four (24) months from the date of his layoff.
C An employee who has five (5) or more years of _ credited service at date of layoff shall have recall rights for five (5) years from the date of his layoff.
D An employee to retain his recall rights must register at the Personnel Office in person or by registered letter, indicating whether or not he wishes to retain his recall rights, during the first thirteenth (13th) month on layoff and thereafter during the thirty (30) days following each annual anniversary date from his layoff.
E Employees who have seniority privileges shall at the time of layoff be informed by the Personnel Department of their recall rights. Subject to the above, time spent on layoff shall on rehire be credited to the job on which the employee worked immediately prior to layoff provided he is rehired to the same job.
F In the event he is not rehired to the job on which he worked immediately prior to layoff, time spent on layoff shall, on rehire, be credited:
1) If he has job seniority to
such job.
the
job on which he
2) If he has no job seniority to first accumulates job seniority.
An employee who is rehired during the term of this Agreement and who provides satisfactory proof that he has an improper service date shall have same rectified.
45
8.17	An employee notified -"aT ■’tScaill'' must present himself for work within two (2) working days, excluding Saturday and Sunday, from the date the registered letter sent by tfcj Company is delivered to his last recorded address. However, if an employee who has gained employment elsewhere during layoff is recalled, he shall report within seven (7) working days. Failing to do so shall cancel all back service. However, should he present himself within thirty (30) days of the date of such registered letter with a reasonable excuse for failure to present himself within the above two (2) or seven (7) working days, his credited service shall be kept intact, and he shall be notified of the next vacancy to which he is entitled under clause 8,13. This thirty (30) day extension is limited to the first notification. Date of registered letter above is the date such letter is delivered to the employee's last recorded address.
3.18	Back service credit of an employee shall be terminated when he refuses a job to which he is entitled on recall under clause 8.13.
3.19	When an employee with one (1) year of Company service wishes to transfer from his job to a similar job or to another job within the bargaining unit, he shall make a written application for such job to his department/ares manager.
When an employee resigns, is discharged, or an opening occurs due to transfer, the original vacancy only will be posted in the department in which such vacancy occurs and in rhe main entrance for stven (7) dayi from the end of the shift such notification is given (exclusive of holidays) before being filled. After this seven-day (7-day) period, the job will be closed off. Any transfers received after the aforementioned period of time will not be honoured. The application must contain the date and time of the day it is received by the supervisor, The department/area manager will, within one working day, forward the application to the Personnel Department.
An employee shall not have more than one such application pending, excepting an application to the Skilled Trades Training Program.
In the event of a permanent vacancy which:
(a)	Is not filled by job progression, where such is in effect,
(b)	No employee has recall rights under clause 3.13,
(c)	No employee has replacement rights under clause 8,22
the employee with the most credited service on the list of applicants who meets the baric raquiraasnts and is capable of performing the job will be offered the job.
An employee whose transfer has been honoured may be held on the job from which ne~Sas "made transfer for a period of time
46
equal to the learning schedule"tiff""surch: job but not exceeding two (2) months from the date on which the transfer was honoured. A second transfer for the same employee within a six (6) month period may at management's discretion be delayed for a period not to exceed six (6) months from the date of original transfer with no mora than five (5) transfers allowed within a th.irty-'Six (36) month period. If the employee refused this offer, his application for the job shall be cancelled and he will be ineligible for transfer consideration for six (6) months from date of such refusal.
Exception - Bidding/Bumping (July 11, 1991 Memorandum) :
It is agreed that the following is intended to apply except to the extent that it is temporarily affected by the transition agreement which will be written to ensure we maintain our customer base during the consolidation of Kitchener North resources into the facility. When the Company needs to balance workloads among or between different operations and open entry level positions need to be filled when employees (with three (3) years or less seniority) are available from other operations, the Company will move the available employee (s) directly to the open position (s) after job progression ha8 taken place.
Exception For Maintenance Division:
An employee who desires to be transferred to a vacancy in a classified job under this clause, must as well as being capable, also have qualified experience to have his application considered. "Qualified experience" in this instance will also include such experience acquired in other than the bargaining unit. Before hiring a new employee in these classifications, the Company shall give consideration to applications on file from employees in the bargaining unit.
8.20	Employees may be loaned from one job to another for a
period not to exceed four (4) consecutive weeks:	such time
may be extended by mutual agreement. If the employee is transferred to such job while on loan, his transfer date shall be that of the first day of loan. Employees who are placed on jobs for rehabilitation purposes after outside injuries or who replace loaned employees, shall be classified as loaned employees. The steward of the department and the employee ’who is on a loan basis shall be notified in writing by the department/area manager giving the reason for such.
8.21	When an operation or group of operations is transferred to another department and the employee is transferred with the operation or equipment, time spent on the job and in the department from which transfer occurs shall be deemed to be time spent in the department to which he is transferred. If removed from the operation or equipment before he establishes either job seniority or residence rights, he shall have the status of a regular transferred employee as of the date of transfer into the new department.
47
8.22	Where a department or arTcperati'on within a department is permanently discontinued, the employee who is not placed under Clause 8,11 shall be transferred on the basis of hi credited service to a vacancy which is not filled by job” progression where such is in effect and for which no one has recall rights under clause 8.13.
If there is no vacancy, he may displace the employee with the least credited service in the same division on work for which he is qualified and capable of performing, providing he has more credited service than such employee.
An employee who is transferred because of reclassification, shall have his service on the job to which he is transferred as of date of transfer.
Where an operation, group of operations or_ department has been classified as discontinued and same is subsequently reinstated, employees who have been transferred from such shall be gitfen the opportunity of returning on the basis of seniority provided less than two (2) years has elapsed from date of such transfer.
8.23	Employees may be returned from supervisory or salaried employment to the bargaining unit at the discretion of the Company under the following conditions:
1)	Employees who have transferred from the bargaining unit to supervisory or salaried employment must be resident within the South plant in order to be eligible to return to the bargaining unit.
2)	Employees who have transferred from the bargaining unit to a supervisory or salaried position and who have:
(a)	up to 12 months service in a salaried position shall return to the job where they had job seniority at the time of their transfer but shall not displace employees who have more credited service. If such job has been eliminated they shall be placed in accordance with Clause 8.11.
(b)	greater than 12 months service up t o 24 months service in a salaried position shall return to the lowest seniority job, first, in the department from which they came and second, in the plant, but shall not displace employees who have more credited service.
(c)	greater than twenty-four (24) months will no longer be eligible to return to the bargaining unit.
Time _ spent on supervisory or salaried employment shall be credited in (a) above to the department and job where they held job seniority at time of transfer and in (b) above to the department and job on which they are placed.
If placed under Clause 8.11, they will be immediately credited with their prior credited service in the bargaining unit and upon completion of three (3) months service in
48
accordance with Clause 8,07>''"wm"Be ' further credited with the service attained on supervisory or salaried employment.
Supervisory or salaried employees returned to the bargaining unit per the above will not result in the layoff of a bargaining unit employe?.
8.24	Operations of the plant are conducted on a rotating shift basis, therefore, there shall be no shift preference. Permanent shifts may be assigned only to employees having ten or more years of credited service, and then only if all employees on the shifts affected agree to the assignment, but such will not be implemented unless mutually agreed to by the Company and the Union,
8.25	Notwithstanding the provisions of this Article, management may place employees under the following conditions:
1)	Where two (2) or more employees have identical credited service and are entitled to the same job.
2)	Where an employee is fully qualified to perform an operation for which no other employee can qualify without long training.
3)	Where the medical department for the purpose of rehabilitating a factory-injured employee requires that he be kept at work, or an employee as a result of a factory
' injury has a permanent partial disability but performs the work to which he has been assigned in a manner satisfactory to management. However, in either case, the injured employee shall not displace employees having more credited service. Where an employee who has a temporary disability due to a factory injury is temporarily placed on a job other than his job classification, such time shall be credited to his regular job held prior to such injury.
4)	Where an employee is on leave of absence due to illness or injury, and returns to work, he shall be reinstated to his former job on the basis of seniority, provided he is capable.
5)	Where an employee who has returned from military service requires special handling for rehabilitation; however, such employee shall not displace an employee having more credited service.
6)	Where an employee cannot perform satisfactory work due to age/ health, or other physical conditions, such employee
' 'Isnall be transferred to other work which is more suit- * able, if such work is available. However, the employee so transferred shall not displace an employee who has more credited service.
8.26	When it becomes necessary to lay off an employee, he y shall be notified wherever possible, seven (7) calendar days
in advance of layoff. An employee desiring to leave the
49
employ of the Company shall'"^We' 'seven (7) calendar days notice if at all possible.
8.27	Qualifications as referred to in Article VII and Article VIII of this agreement shall be determined by the Company on the basis of such items as: experience, physical and mental capability, skill, adaptability, knowledge, responsibility, efficiency, attitude and integrity, subject to the grievance procedure.
8.28	The Company agrees to furnish the President of Local #677 with three (3) copies of a plant wide seniority list and a master list annually and to supply changes, if any, each three (3) months.
8.29	The Company has granted a "Skilled Trades Training Program" which is listed under a Supplemental Agreement.
ARTICLE IX PLANT MANAGEMENT
9.01	The Union recognizes that the operating of the plant and the full direction of the working forces is the exclusive function and responsibility of the Company. Without restricting the generality of the foregoing:
a)	It is the exclusive function of the Company to manage the industrial enterprise in which it is engaged, and to determine the number and location of plants, the products to be manufactured, the methods of manufacturing, schedules of production, kinds and locations of machines, tools to be used, processes of manufacturing and assembling, the engineering and designs of its products and the control of materials and parts to be incorporated in the products produced.
b)	It is the exclusive function of management to maintain order, discipline, and efficiency and to hire, discharge, transfer, promote, demote, or discipline employees and to determine and establish standards of performance for all machines, employees, and operations.
9.02	Each employee shall give his undivided attention to the work assigned to him by the Company throughout his work shift.
9.03	a record card covering each year of an employee'1 s service is maintained for the purpose of recording his attendance, performance, and miscellaneous pertinent facts concerning his work record. No derogatory notation may be placed on his card without first notifying the employee concerned.
9.04	Reprimand and derogatory notations placed on an emplo-
50
yee's card by his supervisdr^are' to be signed by the employee concerned. If the employee refuses to sign such notation, the supervisor will within five (5) calendar days of such refusal, give the employee a written copy of the notation. The problem can then be negotiated, provided a written grievance is received within five (5) calendar days from the date of the written copy of the notation. If no grievance is received within the time limits as herein expressed, the notation will remain on the employee's record card as accepted. If the supervisor fails to give the employee a written copy of the notation within the time limits as herein expressed, the notation will be removed from the employee's record card.
Reprimands for offences such as illegal strike, slowdown, work stoppage, refusal to follow reasonable instructions from a supervisor and/or to respect supervisor's authority, fighting with other employees, if not repeated within TWO (2) years will be disregarded in the administration of discipline. All other offences exclusive of those listed above will be disregarded if not repeated within ONE (1) year.
9.05	Where an employee is removed from the rolls of the Company, he will be given an opportunity to review his record card with the Personnel Department. In the case of a discharge, the employee, if he so desires, may be accompanied by his steward or designated Union representative.
9.05	Warnings, reprimands, suspensions, or discharges may follow conditions of which typical examples are:
a)	Stealing Company property or that of fellow workers.
b)	Reporting production falsely or punching other than employee's own card.
c)	Sabotage.
d)	Violation of safety rules.
e)	Refusal to follow reasonable instructions from a supervisor and/or to respect supervisor's authority.
f)	Refusal to follow negotiation procedure as outlined in this Agreement, Article V,
g)	Reporting for work intoxicated.
h)	Disorderly or immoral conduct on Company property.
i)	Obtaining employment on the basis of false information as to age or identity.
j)	Continual lateness.
k)	Avoidable waste of materials.
l)	Defective workmanship.
m)	Low production.
51
n)	Multiple reprimands.
o)	Endangering his life or that of fellow employees.
p)	Smoking in areas and at times in which smoking is forbidden.
9.07	Nothing contained in this Article shall be construed as restricting the rights of the Union under any other provisions of this Agreement.
9.08	Notices that the Union desires to have posted on the Company's notice boards shall be submitted to the Plant Manager or Manager Industrial Relation8 for approval. After agreement as to posting, the Company will post the notices on the bulletin boards customarily provided for all notices to employees.
9.09	The Company agrees to provide adequate relief for normal personal needs when and where necessary in any department where the work requires continuous operation.
9.10	a) A Safety Committee shall be appointed consisting of up to eight (8) individuals: up to four (4) rapr«$*nting the Company and up to four (4) representing the Union. Each party will designate an individual from their representatives on the Committee to provide for co-chairmanship. In addition, a designated alternate may be appointed to tha Committee by either party. The Union designate would usually be the Union President.
b)	The function of the Safety Committee shall be to facilitate the promotion of sanitation and safety in the plant. The Safety Committee shall meet as often as it deems necessary but not less than once per month for the purpose
of discussing sanitation and safety problems and will tour
the plant monthly t o verify that adopted sanitation and safety recommendations have been complied with. Union members of the Safety Committee will be paid for such meetings and plant tours in accordance with the provisions of Article V, Clause 5,15 of the present Agreement.
c)	Due consideration will be given to recommendations of the Safety Committee. Any questions concerning the adoption of recommendations of the Safety Committee may be referred to the grievance procedure at Step #3. Members of the Safety Committee will be permitted to attend grievance meetings regarding such problems.
d)	Differences not resolved within the Committee regarding sanitation and safety problems may be referred to the grievance procedure at Step #3 for adjustment, iembers of the Safety Committee will be permitted to ittend grievance meetings regarding such problems.
e)	Members of the Safety Committee shall, be permitted to enter the plant when off shift for the purpose of investigating sanitation and safety matters in accordance with
52
Article V, Clause 5.11, subseutfafi (by of the present Agreement.
In the event that a Union member of the Safety Committee it requested by the Company, or because of a necessity which is speaified under the Occupational Health and Safety hot, to report for work outside his normal working hours, he shall bo compensatad at tho appropriate premium pay aa par Article VI clause 6.05.
f)	Notice of the occurrence of an accident in the plant will be furnished to the Safety Committee representative.
g)	If a problem arises requiring a member of the Safety Committee to contact employees during his working hours, such contact shall be arranged by such member through either his immediate suparviaor or the department /araa manager concerned.
h)	Two members of ths Safety Committee will haooaia certified representatives (when tho certification program is
legislated) . This will consist of ono (1) from tho Company and one (1) from the Union.
ARTICLE X
ATTENDANCE REGULATIONS
10.01	Regular attendance is expected of every employee.
10.02	An employee	who expects to	be	late or absent must
report the reason	to the Company at least	one (1) hour, if
possible, prior to starting time of hi8 shift. If he is unable to contact	the Company due	to	not	having reasonable
access to a phone	and he will only	be	off	one (1) shift, he
must personally report his absence and the reason to hie supervisor during his following shift. If he expects to be absent more than one (1) shift, he must notify the Company at the earliest possible time. In the case of illness of an employee he must make every reasonable effort t o notify the Company as soon a8 possible.
10.03	An employee may be reprimanded, suspended, or removed from the rolls at the Company's option as resigned where:
a)	He is absent three (3) consecutive days for reasons other than illness or injury, or seven (7) days in the case of illness or injury, and has not obtained an approved leave of absence or an extension of same.
b)	Without condoning absenteeism or no report, he is absent on more than one occasion in thirty-one (31) consecutive calendar days and has not obtained an approved leave of absence.
c)	He is absent three (3) consecutive days after being
l
53
approved for work with a deTfiTfife' time to start work.
10,04 Department/area manager may grant a leave of absence
except in cases of illness or injury, up to fifteen (15; days. Leave of over fifteen (15) days but not in excess of ninety (90) days are arranged through the Personnel Department by the supervisor. An employee desiring a leave of absence of either more or less than fifteen (15) days duration must make his request in writing to his supervisor. The supervisor will inform the employee as promptly as possible regarding his written request. Before an employee can take a leave of absence, he must have a written approval of such leave.
10,05	Leaves of absence may be granted for reasons other than illness or injury upon application of the employee and approval of the Company. Such leaves shall not exceed the following:
Credited Service	Duration
a)	Less than 2 years	15 days
b)	2 years but less	than 5 years	2 months
c)	5 years or more	3 months
Provided, however, that where leave of absence is granted to an employee in la) above because of illness or death in the immediate family, such leave shall be extended to cover travelling time. If the employee, while on leave of absence, takes employment, his leave will be cancelled and he will be considered as resigned.
10.06	Leave of absence shall be granted for illness or
injury of the employee provided he makes written application to his supervisor for same. Where the illness or injury prevents the employee from making such application, the supervisor shall make same on his behalf and if granted, a written leave will be given to the employee. The duration of such leave of absence shall be dependent on the nature of the illness or injury, the medical aspects of the case, and the effort the employee is making to restore himself to normal health, but shall not, except as hereinafter provided, exceed the following:
Credited Service
a)	Less than 1 year
b)	1 year but less than 2 years
c)	2 years but less than 5 years
d)	5 years but less than 10 years
e)	10 years and over
Duration
1 calendar week for each month of credited service
5 months
12 months
24 months
36 months
Provided, however, the Company in consultation with its
54
medical department will exe'rci^¥‘"pr'imary control as to how long beyond the periods specified in (a) to (e) the sick case is carried.
EXCEPTION:	For W.C.B. cases, the maximum allowable leave of
absence for seniority employees will be forty-eight (43) months.
10.07	Employees who are members of the "Reserve Force" may be granted, upon request, a leave of absence without pay, not exceeding two (2) weeks, to attend summer camp training. The employee must, upon request of the Company, produce written proof of service.
10. OS An employee who is a properly designated representative of the Local Union, upon request to his supervisor, shall be permitted time off without pay for the investigating or handling of grievances, attending—to Local Union business, or a convention, but in the latter instance, he shall be given a written leave of absence.
It is understood that the supervisor and Union representative must take factory production requirements, degree of urgency and circumstances surrounding the request into consideration when granting any request for time off.
An employee who is elected or appointed to serve as a representative of his Local Union, the U.R.C.L, & P.W.A., Canadian Labour Congress, or Ontario Federation of Labour, shall upon written request, be granted a leave of absence without pay up to a period of one (1) year. An extension of such, leave shall be granted on a yearly basis upon written application. In either case, the Union will give consideration to factory production requirements.
10.09	An employee granted a leave of absence for a period in excess of fifteen (15) days must, prior to resuming work:
1)	Report in person to the Personnel Department not later than the last normal work day of his leave.
2)	If required by the Company, pass the Medical Department's examination. This examination shall be for the purpose of determining whether or not the employee has sufficiently recovered from the illness or injury to resume work and to prevent any employee from resuming work who had, while on leave of absence, contracted an infectious or contagious disease, or who has incurred a disability which, in the opinion of the Medical Department, precludes resumption of employment without endangering the health or safety of the employee or his fellow employees. If an employee is thus prevented from resuming work, he shall be given such further leave of absence as may be required to remedy the condition.
10.10	Leave of absence shall apply only to an employee who is actively employed by the Company, is on an approved leave
55
of absence, or is on vacation-
10,11 An employee who has been employed for at least thi. teen (13) weeks may request, in writing at least two week® prior to the anticipated commencement of the leave, and shall be granted, the following Leave of Absence without pay. It is understood by both parties that the following is for information purposes and that the full tort of the applicable sections of the Employment Standards Act of Ontario, the Regulations to the Act, and any au&flfiquezrt changes, modifications, or amendments thereto shall govern the actual circumstances of the Leave.
(a)
7
Pregnancy Leave of a maximum of seventeen (17) weeks is available to the natural mother of the child and the request for leave must be accompanied by a certificate from a qualified medical practitioner stating the expected birth date. Pregnancy leave ends seventeen (17) weeks after commencement or on an earlier date provided the employee advises the Company, in writing at least four (4) weeks in advance of an earlier return date.
(b)
Parental Leave of a maximum of eighteen (18) weeks i s available to each parent of either a natural or an dopted child. The Parental leave of a natural mother IJJust begin immediately following the expiration of her reganancy Leave; otherwise, Parental leave must cmmence within thirty-five (35) weeks of the date of 'he child's birth or coming into custody, care, and control of the parent, Parental leave ends eighteen (18) weeks after commencement or on an earlier date provided the employee advises the Company, in writing at least four (4) weeks in advance of an earlier return date.
During either Pregnancy or Parental leave, seniority continues to accrue and the employee continues to participate in each type of benefit plan provided by the Company, and all required contributions will continua to be made, unless the employee elects in writing not to continue participation in the benefits. Upon return frem Pregnancy or Parental leave, the employee w i 11 be reinstated to a position of the same status and pay as the position held at th® commsncsmsnt of the leave.
ARTICLE X I VACATIONS
11.01	Employees who have one or more years of credited service as of July 1st of the current year shall be granted
a vacation, the duration of which shall be based upon credited service, and the payment for which shall be a percentage of the employee‘s total earnings for the previous
56
calendar year.
Credited Service
Group A - 25 years or more
S Group B - 20 years but less than 25 years
Vacation
6 calendar weeks or a minimum of 3 calendar weeks & 15 single days
5 calendar weeks or a minimiim of 3 calendar weeks & 10 single days
V
Group C - 12 years but less than 20 years
4 calendar weeks ora minimum of 3 calendar weeks & 5 single day8
5
Group D - 5 years but less than 12 years
Group E - 1 year but less than 5 years
3 calendar weeks
2 calendar weeks
Payment
12%
10%
8%
6%
4%
A week of vacation, in regards to taking single days of vaoation, consists of five (5) days. Selection of specific single day(s) of vacation by seniority will be honoured up to, and including, January 31 of each calendar year, after which selection will be on a firat-cone, first-served basis.
11.02	Vacation payment to an employee in Group E hired after January 1st of the previous calendar year shall be based upon his total earnings for the period July 1st of the previous year to and including June 3 0th of the current year.
11.03	An employee with less than one year of credited service as of July 1st of the current year will be granted a vacation payment of 4% of his earnings up t o and including June 30th of the current year. Such payment shall be made between July 1st and December 15th of the current year. Where the Company follows its normal practice of closing down for vacation and provided the employee is not scheduled to work during such shutdown, he shall be paid his vacation payment immediately prior to such shutdown.
11.04	Vacations shall be scheduled to commence not earlier than January 1st of the current year for those employees who are in Groups A, B, C and D and not earlier than March 1st of the current year for employees who are in Group E, and must be completed prior to December 31st of such year. An employee who attains one (1) year of credited service between March 1st and June 30th inclusive, shall not be granted his week of vacation pay until after the date on which he attained such credited service. An employee who
attains .ane (11 . five (5) ,__twelve (12) ,.twenty (20) ,
twan.tyr-.five, "(23X years, of ..cradi^d.^jlf^^e'nBietween January 1st and December 24th of the calendar year shall not be
57
granted Jiis additional week' s-^vseition: with pav until aftej
the dateorr wnicn he attains such crerftted s^rvi re	_
ADDENDUM
An employee may request pay in lieu of vacation time off up to the maximum listed in the following schedule:
Vacation Eligibility
5	weeks
6	weeks
Pay in Lieu of Vacation
1	weak
2	weeks
The employee may only express such preference at the time that he is contacted for selection of his preferred weeks of vacation. Such choice will be first choice for vacation selection.
Employees who qualify as of July 1st/ and have elected to take pay in lieu of vacation time off in accordance with the above regulations, will receive their vacation cheques for said week or weeks by mid July.
Those employees who qualify for their 5th or 6th week of vacation between July 1 and December 31 per this clause ll.04r and who have elected to take pay in lieu of vacation time off in accordance with the above regulations, will receive their vacation cheque for said week(s) the week following their qualification for the additional week(s),
11.05	In any year the Company electa to dose down for vacation (except under the provisions of Appendix A, Item
5), the employee who qualifies for vacation is expected to take his vacation during such period, providing he is not scheduled for maintenance or emergency work during the closing-down period. The Company will make a reasonable effort to post the time of such closing down by April 1st of the current year.
11.06	A definite period far vacation must necessarily be scheduled by the supervisor of the department, giving due consideration to production requirements. No vacation pay will be authorized unless taken except as defined in this Article.
11.07	Vacation payment will not be made to an employee while he is absent from work by reason of sickness, injury, or leave of absence. If upon the employee's return to work:
(a)	the Company is unable to schedule his vacation prior to December 15th of the current year, or
(b)	the employee is unable to return to work for the reasons outlined above prior to December 15th of the current year
he shall be paid his vacation payment.
11.08	An employee whose employment is terminated by reason
of authorized retirement, permanent and total disability or
58
death or by payment of a sevSfSiic'e' award under the provisions of the Pension Plan Agreement or Severance Award Agreement on or after July 1st, 1992, 1993, 1994 and before July 1st, 1993, 1994, 1995 shall be paid a vacation payment based on the percentage defined in Clause 11.01 and the wages he earned from July 1st, 1991, 1992, 1993, 1994 whichever is applicable to his termination date.
11.09	An employee in Groups A, B, C, D or E of Clause 11.01 whose employment is terminated because he resigns or is discharged, shall be paid a vacation payment per Clause 11.08.
11.10	An employee in Groups A, B, C, D or E of Clause 11.01 whose employment is terminated because he is laid off shall be paid a vacation payment as follows:
1)	Where termination occurs prior to July 1st of the current year and the employee has not had his vacation for such year, he shall be entitled to four per cent (4%) according to current legislation of his total earnings from July 1st of the previous year to his termination date. Should such employee be rehired at any time during the next vacation year (July 1st of the current year to June 30th of the next year) and the Company is unable to schedule his vacation prior to December 31-st of the current calendar year, he shall be paid the vacation payment which he would otherwise have received but for such termination, less any amount he has received for the current vacation year in lieu of time off.
2)	Where termination occurs after July 1st of the current year and the employee has not had his vacation for such year, he shall be paid vacation pay to which he is entitled on July 1st and in addition to, four per cent
(4%) of his earnings according to current legislation, from July 1st of the current year to his termination date.
3)	Where termination occurs after July 1st of the current year and the employee has had his vacation for such year, he shall be entitled to four per cent (4%) according to current legislation of his total earnings from July 1st of the current year to his termination date.
4)	Where an employee is not recalled from lay-off within the current year, he shall be paid a vacation payment per clause 11.08, less any amounts of vacation payment received during the current year.
11.11	An employee whose employment is terminated for any reason and who has less than one (1) year of credited service at such time, shall be paid a vacation payment as follows:
1) Where termination occurs before July 1st of the current year and the employee has not had a vacation payment for
59
such year, the employee shSlT'Be'paid four per cent (4%) according to current legislation of his total earnings from his hiring date to his date of termination.
2)	Where termination occurs after July 1st of the current year and the employee has not had a vacation payment for such year, the employee shall be paid four per cent (4%) according to current legislation of his total earnings from his hiring date to June 30th of the current year and in addition, he shall be entitled to four (4%) per cent according to current legislation of his total earnings from July 1st of the current year to his termination date.
3)	When termination occurs after July 1st of the current year and the employee has had a vacation payment for such year, he shall be entitled to four per cent (4%) according to current legislation, of his total earnings from July 1st of the current year to his termination date.
11.12	Where an employee has been unable to work during the preceding calendar year, or any part thereof, owing to sickness or injury and for this reason only, the vacation pay is less than the following minimum, the vacation pay shall be increased to a minimum of the applicable U.I.C. maximum. Provided, the employee must have resumed his normal duties not less than two (2) months before vacation is granted.
11.13	An employee who has been on sick leave during the current year and who returns to work during such year, may by mutual agreement, at Step #3, be paid the vacation payment due to him in lieu of time off.
11.14	In no instance will vacation be paid twice for the same period of time.
11.15	In computing the earnings for vacation pay the following items shall be included:	Uniroyal Goodrich total tax-
able earnings (exclusive of special payment not covered by the Collective Labour Agreement), vacation from the preceding year, Ontario Health Insurance premiums which are paid by the employer on behalf of the employee and short work week benefits paid under the S.U.B. plan and Workers' Compensation payments and Weekly Indemnity for lost time in the previous calendar year.
ARTICLE XII
DURATION OF AGRS8MRMT
12.01 This Agreement shall be effective from June 1, 1&32 and shall remain in full force until Nay 31, 199b and there-" after from year to year unless either party gives to the other party, notice in writing of cancellation within a
60
period of ninety (90) days prfS*r''t'o May 31/	1995/ or any
anniversary thereafter.
12.02	Subject to the provision for cancellation, either party may give the other a notice of proposal for revision within a period of ninety (90) days prior to My 31, 1995 or any anniversary date thereafter in which event the parties shall meet to consider the proposed revisions within twenty (20) days of the date of such delivery of notice and this Agreement shall continue in full force and effect until agreement is reached upon the proposed revisions, Provided that if negotiations for revision of this Agreement continue for two (2) months without agreement, this Agreement may be cancelled by either party upon thirty (30) days written notice to the other.
12.03	In the event of written notice of cancellation having been given by either party as provided for in Clause 12,01 and 12.02 herewith, negotiations shall be carried on during the period of notice of cancellation with a view to arranging a new Agreement. Should such negotiations extend beyond the expiration date, this Agreement shall not expire, but shall continue in full force and effect until the expiration of the applicable periods referred to in the Labour Relations Act, as amended, or until a new Agreement is entered into by the parties, whichever date shall occur first.
12.04	The P ension Plan Agreement, Severance Award Agreement, Insurance Program Agreement, Supplementary Unemployment Benefit Plan Agreement, Separation Payment Plan Agreement, the Mutual Dental Care Plan Agreement, Appendices A,B,C,D, and E, and the Letters of Understanding (#1 to #14 inclusive) attached hereto form part of this Collective Labour Agreement.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties have executed this Agreement this first day of June, 1992.
Signed, Sealed and Delivered in the presence of:
APPENDICES TO THE AGREEMENT
BETWEEN; UNIROYAL GOODRICH CANADA INC.,
KITCHENER SOUTH PLANT
hereinafter called the "Company"
AND:	LOCAL #677 - UNITED RUBBER, CORK,
LINOLEUM AND PLASTIC WORKERS OF AMERICA hereinafter called the "Union".
During the recent negotiations the Union and Company agreed to the following Appendices to the Agreement:
APPENDIX A
ITEMS ORKJIHMIHG FROM MEMO BAND OW OF JULY 11, 1991
1.	FLEXIBILITY /MACHINE UTILIZATION
While the existing contract affords management considerable flexibility to operate the plant in a cost effective manner, poor communications and/or past practices need to be addressed. The Company recognizes its responsibility for good communication and consistent treatment of all employees. It is, therefore, understood that, in the future, the Company will expect cooperation in the following:
To balance production requirements, a qualified employs® or crew can be moved to another operation in any department for which the employee or crew is qualified. This will include, for example, moving a builder between first stage and second stage building, even when they have work on their original operation. Further, if an incentive operator wore to "cap out", the Company may move an employee to the "capped out" machine. The practice of employees claiming "ownership" to a machine will be discontinued in order to operate the facility in a most cost effective manner. The Company will continue the practice of issuing a weekly work schedule. Further, to use human and capital resources to their fullest potential, the Company will, for example, use dual classifications where required.
2.	CONTINUOUS OPERATIONS
Recognizing the importance of Absentee Replacement (A/R), the Company shall post the A/R jobs in each department at a new higher pay scale, job progression level and fixed training schedule. After these positions are initially filled, job progression will be used to fill future openings. Because the A/R's will be paid at the top of the job progression, the Company shall recognize seniority when staff-
63
ing A/R openings with employees~C:apable of running multiple operations within the department. In the Press Room, th% Utility and the Vacation Replaament categories will fc eliminated and six new A/R's wall be created at the top ot the progression. A/R's will be expected to cross department lines as required.
3.	TRANSITION
Recognizing the need to maintain our customer bas& during the closing of the Kitchener North plant and the planned consolidation at Kitchener South, it is agreed that from July 1st, 1991 to December 31, 1992, the following will bo in effect at the Kitchener South facility:
a)	Job transfers will be suspended except for ~xn the Lab, Receiving, Stores, Tire Repair, Janitorial, Warehouse and Skilled Trades Training Program which will be posted.
b)	open positions will be filled by recall rights, job progression followed fcy job postings at the Kitchener North facility.
c)	Employees hired from Kitchener North will be considered as new employees for job postings and layoff for a period of three years from closing after which the seniority they had accrued at Kitchener North will be added to the seniority and service they earn as new employees in the Kitchener South facility.
d)	Immediately upon being hired at Kitchener South, Kitchener North employees will be eligible for Health and Welfare Benefits, vacation, pension and S.U.B. credits.
e)	Job transfers on record a8 of July 1, 1991 will be honoured .
f)	The #1 Tread Tuber will be relocated from Kitchener North with its crew to the extent that Kitchener South Tread Tuber employees will not be displaced.
4.	1992 VACATION SCHEDULE
The Company will schedule a two (2) week Summer Vacation period commencing on Sunday, July 19 at 11:45 p.m. through till Sunday, August 2 at 11:45 p.m. The Company will also schedule a one (1) week Winter Vacation period commencing on Wednesday, December 22 at 11:45 p.m. through till Thursday, December 31 at 11:45 p.m. December 25 and 26 (Christmas and Boxing Day Statutory Holidays) are not counted as vacation days during this Winter Vacation period but remain recognized as Statutory Holidays. It was mutually agreed between the parties that all employees would be required to use vacation entitlement during the vacation periods outlined above.
It was aleo agreed between the parties to discontinue the present practice of allowing employees to take only full weeks of vacation, and to allow employees with one (1), two
64
(2) and three (3) weeks of vS.cat.ion entitlement remaining, the ability to select single days of vacation or multiples thereof, if so desired, subject to the supervisor's approval; it was understood and agreed between the parties that a week of vacation, in regards to taking single days of vacation, consists of five (5) days, and that the Company will try to accommodate the majority of the requests for single day vacations by hiring additional employees.
It was agreed that employees who do not have three (3) weeks of vacation entitlement, and who have one (1) year or more of service, would be paid under the Short Work V\feek provision of the S . U. B, Agreement for the Winter Vacation period. Payment would be nude only for those days where the employes would be normally scheduled to work on the 7-day, 8-hour shift schedule, and he would not be eligible or receive payment for his normally scheduled days off.
The foregoing items of understanding formed part of the agreement between the parties to address the survival issue of one Canadian tire facility signed on July 11/ 1991 and is, hereby, incorporated into the Collective Labour Agreement.
5.	VACATION SCHEDULES
The Company agrees to change over to a five (5) day operation for an eight (8) week period prior to the Labour Day Holiday to allow each crew two (2) consecutive weeks of vacation during the summer.
During this eight (8) week period, it will be compulsory for employees to work the scheduled shifts on Saturdays and to stay over up to two (2) hours beyond the normal shift end on the Friday or the Saturday to provide for an orderly shutdown for the weekend. Employees who normally would report for work at 11:45 p.m. Sunday shall be required to report for work up to two (2) hours early before their normal shift time on Sunday to provide for an efficient start up during this eight (8) week period excepting the Maintenance Department which shall be required to report up to four (4) hours early.
Premium Payment
During Eight (8) Week Period - Five (5) Day Schedule
11:45 p.m. Friday to 11:45 p.m. Saturday - time and one half 11:45 p.m. Saturday to 11:45 p.m. Sunday - double time
In addition, the Company agrees to schedule time out Of production for the observance of Christmas Day and New Year's Day. The employees impacted by the scheduled time out will be required to book in a Floating Holiday or Single Day Vacation to receive payment for the scheduled time out. S.0.B. will not be applicable.
65
(a)	1993 Vacation Schedule '	July 10 to September 5
ROTATION CREW
.AYS
1st
2nd 3rd 4 th
1	11:45 p.m. Wed. July 7	to 7:45	a.m.	18
Mon. July 2 6
3	7,45	a.m.	Sat.	July	24	to 7:45	a.m.	15
Mon. Aug. 9
2	7:45	a.m.	Sat.	Aug.	7 to 7:45 a.m.	15
Mon. Aug. 23
4	7:45	a.m.	Sat.	Aug.	21	to 3:45	p.m.	18
Thurs. Sept. 9
During the eight (8) week Summer Vacation Period, the following Saturdays will be scheduled for eight (8) hour8 production on "A" Shift:
July 17, July 24, July 31, August 7, August 14, August 21, August 28,
In addition, the plant will be scheduled down on December 24
and December 31 in observance of Chris-----8 and Hew Year's
Days.
(b)	1994 Vacation Schedule
July 9 to September 4
ROTATION	CREW
1st	2
2nd	4
3rd	3
4th	1
11:45 p.m. Wad. July 6 to 7:45 a.m
Mba July 25
7.45 a.m. Sat. July 23 to 7:45 a.m Mbn. Aug. 8
7:45 a.m. Sat. Aug. 6 to 7:45 a.m. Mon. Aug. 22
7:45 a.m, Sat. Aug. 20 to 3:45 p.m Thurs. Sept. 8
DAYS
18
15
15
18
During the eight (8) week Summer Vacation Period, tho following Saturdays will be scheduled for eight (8) hours production on "A” Shift:
July 16, July 23, July 30, August 6, August 13, August 20, August 27.
In addition, the plant will be scheduled down on January 2, December 24 and December 31 in observance of Christmas and New Year's Days.
\
(c)	1995 Vacation Schedule '	' July 8 to September 3
ROTATION	CREW
1st	3
2nd	1
3rd	4
4 th	2
11:45 p.m. Wed. July 5 to 7:45 a.m Mon. July 24
7.45 a.m. Sat. July 22 to 7:45 a.m Mon. Aug. 7
7:45 a.m. Sat. Aug. 5 to 7:45 a.m. Mon. Aug. 21
7:45 a.m. Sat. Aug. 19 to 3:45 p.a Thurs. Sept. 7
DAYS
18
15
15
18
During the eight (8) week Summer Vacation Period, the following Saturdays will be scheduled for eight (8) hours production on "A" Shift:
July 15, July 22, July 29, August 5, August 12, August 19, August 26.
In addition, the plant will be scheduled down on December 24 and December 31 in observance of Christmas and New Year's
Days.
APPENDIX B
INTERIM INCREASE FORMULAE
1.	The amount of the interim increase shall be calculated and recalculated as provided below on the basis of the Consumer Price Index published by Statistics Canada (1986 = 100) and hereinafter referred to as the C.P.I.
2.	First Year of Agreement
a)	"The base for calculations" is the average C.P.I. for the months of April, 1992, May, 1992 and June,
1992.
b)	The first adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay period commencing September 28, 1992. It will reflect one cent (1 <5) per hour for’each full .083 point that the average C.P.I. for the months of June, 1992, July, 1992 and August, 1992 exceeds the base for calculation.
c)	A second_adjustment will be calculated, replace the
first adjustment, if any, and paid as of the pay period commencing on December 28,	1992. It will
reflect one cent (1$) per hour for each full .083 point that the average C.P.I. for the months of September, 1992, October, 1992 and November, 1992 exceeds the base for calculation.
d)	A third adjustment will be calculated, replace the
67
second adjustment, if" any, ''and paid as of the pay period commencing on March 29, 1993. It will reflect one cent (1$) for each full .083 point that th 1 average C.P.I. for the months of December, 1992, January, 1993 and February, 1993 exceeds the base for calculation.
e)	A fourth adjustment, if any, will be calculated and will be carried over throughout the second year of this agreement, and paid as of the pay period commencing on June 2B, 1993. It will reflect one cent (1C) for each full .083 point that the average C.P.I. for the months of March, 1993, April, 1993 and May, 1993 exceeds the base for calculation.
3.	Second Year of Agreement
a)	"The base for calculations" is the average C.P.I. for the months of April, 1993, May, 1993 and June,
1993.
b)	The first adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay period commencing September 27, 1993. It will reflect one cent (1$) per hour for each full .083 point that the average C.P.I. for the months of June, 1993, July, 1993 and August, 1993 exceeds the base for calculation.
c)	A second adjustment will be calculated, replace the
first adjustment, if any, and paid as of the pay period commencing on December 27,	1993. It will
reflect one cent (1$) per hour for each full .083 point that the average C.P.I. for the months of September, 1993, October, 1993 and November, 1993 exceeds the base for calculation.
d)	A third adjustment will be calculated, replace the second adjustment, if any, and paid as of the pay period commencing on March 28, 1994. It will reflect one cent (14) for each full .083 point that the average C.P.I. for the months of December, 1993, January, 1994 and February, 1994 exceeds the base for calculation.
e)	A fourth adjustment, if any, will be calculated and will be carried over throughout the second year of this agreement, and paid as of the pay period commencing on June 27, 1994. It will reflect one cent (1$) for each full .083 point that the average C.P.I. for the months of March, 1994, April, 1994 and May, 1994 exceeds the base for calculation.
4. Third Year of Agreement
a)	"The base for calculations" is the average C.P.I. for the months of April, 1994, May, 1994 and June,
1994.
b)	The first adjustment will be calculated and paid as
68
of the pay period commenting September 26, 1994. It will reflect one cent (14) per hour for each full ,083 point that the average C.P.I, for the months of June, 1994, July, 1994 and August, 1994 exceeds the base for calculation.
c)	A second adjustment will be calculated, replace the
first adjustment, if any, and paid as of the pay period commencing on December 26,	1994. It will
reflect one cent (1$) per hour for each full ,083 point that the average C.P.I. for the months of September, 1994, October, 1994 and November, 1994 exceeds the base for calculation.
d)	A third adjustment will be calculated, replace the second adjustment, if any, and paid as of the pay period commencing on March 27, 1995. It will reflect one cent (1$) for each full ,083 point that the average C,?,I, for the months of December, 1994, January, 1995 and February, 1995 exceeds the base for calculation.
5.	The interim increase will be considered as earnings but will be boxed separately from other wage payments on the employee's time sheet.
6.	In the event Statistics Canada does not issue the appropriate Consumer Price Index on or before the date on which an adjustment is to be calculated, any adjustment required will be made at the beginning of the first pay period following receipt of the index.
7.	No adjustments, retroactive or otherwise, shall be made due to any revision which may later be made in any published Consumer Price Index by Statistics Canada.
8.	Continuation of the interim adjustments is dependent
upon the availability of the official Statistics Canada
Consumer Price Index calculated on the same basis and in the same form as that published for February, 1992,
9.	Interim increase payments will be based on hours worked and hours paid for, including earnings for any payment under the S.U.B, Agreement and overtime.
10.	The current COLA payment accumulated to My 31,	1992
wall be rolled into the wage rates on a garcentaqa (%) basis. 11
11.	Future COLA payments, during the life of this Agreement, will be rolled into t-.ha waq<a rates on a yearly basis, effective June 1st of each contract year. They will be rolled into the rate structures on a straight cents per hour basis.
Notwithstanding the provisions for Interim Wage
69
Inorsasss as set out abovef payment of COXA amounts
generated will be mads ONLY after due consideration Qfa the provisions sat out in the 6th Letter of tJadisrstaund^ ing to the Pension Plan.
12. An advanced COLA of 17$ per hour will be granted and the total value of that advanced COLA that would otherwise have been applied to the wags rate structure effective June 1#	1992 shall be applied as sst out in the 6th
Letter of Understanding to the Pension Plan.
Recovery of the COLA advanced will be as follows:
(a)	5$ from the Interim Wipe Increase due September 28, 1992, plus
(b)	5$ from the Interim Wqop Increase due December 28,
1992, plus
(c)	7$ from the Interim Wigp Increase duo March 29, 1993
Should the Interim W^op Increase calculations at the above dates fail to produce an increase equal to or greater than tho recovery installment due on the respective effective date of adjustment, tho balance duo on said installment (s) will be carried forward and deducted from the next subsequent Interim Whyp Increase (s) in which there is a sufficient increase to cover the advanced amounts.
APPENDIX C
S.P.C. AND EMPLOYEE PARTICIPATION PROGRAMS
PROJECT :
Expand the use of J.I.T., S.P.C. and Employee Participation Programs by establishing a joint committee to formulate policy and oversee the program.
Company and Union will have equal representation at all policy meetings. The parties will select their representatives.
OBJECTIVE :
To Reduce waste defined as anything other than the minimum amount of equipment, materials, parts, floor space and workers' time which are absolutely essential to add value to the product by adopting a theme of Consinuous Improvement.
STEPS REQUIRED:
Management and Union to provide encouragement, £ >port and leadership to enable employees to utilize thei:	full
potential which will assist our plant to become a competitive and innovative world class manufacturing ‘acuity •	,
CRITERIA:
1.	Any reduction in staffing as a result of this project will be handled through attrition.
2.	The Company will advise the Union in advance of implementing any action related to this project.
3.	Should this project require new or revised standards, the Union Time Study will be involved with the Company Industrial Engineer in the development of the standards and will be paid average hourly earnings while so involved.
APPENDIX D
INTEGRATION OF NON-VALUE-ADDED JOBS INTO VALUE-ADDED JOBS
PROJECT :
Integrate Non-Value-Added Jobs into Value-Added Jobs and provide for efficient utilization of Manpower.
STEPS REQUIRED:
Examine Work Content with a view to combining functions and redeployment of available waiting time,
Joint Union/Company analysis of Work Content.
1,	Mixing Department:
Replace the following job classifications with a Utility Position:
a)	Rubber Cutter
b)	Stock & Waste Control
c)	Absentee Replacement
Evaluate work content on #1 Banbury to make the operation more cost competitive.
Evaluate workload of Mixing Department cleaning functions.
2,	Calendering/Extruding Department:
Replace Absentee Replacement Job Classification with Utility Classification.
Evaluate work content on 4-Roll Calender to make the operation cost competitive.
3,	Tire Preparation Department:
A)	Evaluate work content in the following job classifications:	,
a)	Liner Reroll	d)	Liner Repair
b)	#2 Bias Cutter Service	e)	Miscut
c)	Liner Pickup	f)	Sweeper
g) Vacation Replacement
71
B)	Establish a Util ity"Jcrs?3si'fTeat ion.
C)	Investigate feasibility of Module Concept in Be2
Area.	>
4.	Curing Department:
Evaluate work content of Press Operators to determine feasibility of performing bladder changes and taking over responsibility of Press Startups.
5.	Final Finish Department:
Evaluate work content in the following job classifications:
a)	Rework
b)	Bulge Detection
c)	Light Buff d> Tire Repair
Cover above jobs under the Job Classification of Tire Repair with understanding that the four senior employees in this group currently on one shift (days) will remain on that one shift until retirement, termination or transfer from their current job.
CRITERIA:
1.	Any reduction in staffing as a result of this project will be handled through attrition.
2.	The Company will advise the Union in advance of implementing any action related to this project.
3.	Should this project require new or revised standards,
the Union Time Study will be involved with the Company Industrial Engineer in the development of the standards and will be paid average hourly earnings while so involved.
APPENDIX E
CONVERSION TO "MEASURED DAY WORK" SYSTEM
PROJECT :
Convert all present "Incentive Operations" excluding Tire Building to a "Measured Day Work System",
STEPS REQUIRED:
Develop machine capacities to develop targets, manning requirements and standards for costing purposes.
Joint Company/Union analysis of work content.
CRITERIA:
1,	Any reduction in staffing as a result of this project will be handled through attrition.
2.	The Company will advise the Union in advance of iraple-
72
meriting any action relatrecf'^to this project ■
3. Should this project require new or revised standards, the Union Time Study will be involved with the Company Industrial Engineer in the development of the standards and will be paid average hourly earnings while so involved.
73
LETTERS OF tiN02RSTANDING
BETWEEN:	UNIROYAL GOODRICH CANADA INC.,
KITCHENER SOUTH PLANT
hereinafter called the "Company"
AND:	LOCAL #677 - UNITED RUBBER, CORK,
LINOLEUM AND PLASTIC WORKERS OF AMERICA hereinafter called the "Union".
During the recent negotiations the Union and Company agreed to the following Letters of Understanding:
Letter 1
MEMORANDUM OR AGREEMENT RE PRODUCTIVITY
During the 1989 contract negotiations, the Company and the Union agreed that it is in their mutual best interests to develop a procedure to enable the Company to take advantage of business opportunities, maximize productivity capabilities, maximize operating effectiveness and strengthen the plant's operations consistent with the welfare and job security of the employees.
This Memorandum of Agreement provides authorization to the parties to enter into discussions for the purpose of jointly developing, approving, and implementing programs to meet the objectives set forth above. The approval and implementation of any change shall be accomplished in each case through a Memorandum of Agreement between the parties. The approval of the Memorandum shall be made by the majority of the bargaining unit members in the department, departments, or operations within a department($) which are directly involved.
Fundamental to this joint effort is the concept that the ongoing prosperity of Uniroyal Goodrich Canada Inc., Kitchener South Plant is mutually beneficial to both parties. This Memorandum of Agreement will serve as an instrument in achieving the common objectives of the Company and the Union as well as to solidify the continuing co-operative and constructive relationship between the parties.
Letter 2
VOLUNTARY OVERTIME
It is understood and agreed that the Company will ark for volunteers for overtime work beyond the requirements of the normal work week schedule (except hours required for start up and shut down shifts) on an individual basis to replace absentees or to meet production requirements.
It i s further understood and agreed between the parties that should the Ccnqpany not obtain cooperation from employees in performing necessary overtime to maintain scheduled production levels, the union agrees that it will meet with the
75
Company when requested to put Tn plica a plan which will provide the required manning to meet production o?«rtia^ requirements.
The Company will maintain records pertaining to overtime hours offered and worked and will make every effort to equalize the overtime hours offered. The maximum number of overtime hours which can be offered on any given day during the normal work week will be four (4) hours.
When the Company deems it necessary to perform work on overtime, such overtime shall be distributed as equitably as reasonably practical within a group. It is understood that this section does not assume that each employee sharing overtime with a particular group will at any given time have received the same number of overtime hours but merely expresses the fundamental policy of the Company to keep such hours as nearly in balance from time to time as is practical under the circumstances.
If the balance of hours worked among a group which normally shares such overtime is not properly maintained because of improper allocation and a grievance is filed, and as a result an employee is found not to have had his fair share of hours, the condition shall be identified and preference given to the aggrieved employee over the other employees involved as soon as practicable, until a fair balance is reestablished.
The Union will have the right to check over the aforementioned records pertaining to overtime hours offered and worked.
Letter 3
FDR THE HANDLING OF EMPLOYEES WHO ARE MEMBERS OF THE BAR-
GRIMING UNIT AMD WHO ACCEPT ASSIGNMENT TO SUPERVISOR!
DUTIES.
1.	Employees who accept assignment as supervisors and elect
to withdraw from the bargaining unit:
-	These employees will be paid rates and work scheduled hours as determined by the Company.
-	Upon completion of the assignment, the employee will be returned to the bargaining unit to a job per the Collective Agreement.
2,	Employees who accept assignment of supervisors for a
period of up to three consecutive months and elect to
remain in the bargaining unit:
-	These employees will be paid rates and work scheduled hours as determined by the Company.
-	Upon completion of the assignment, the employee will be returned to the job which he held prior to assignment.
76
-	It is agreed that any elmpTo^ee who changes jobs as a result of the assignment will be informed that such change is on a loan basis and that at the end of the assignment, he will return to the job he held prior to the assignment.
3.	Employees who are temporarily loaned to supervisory duties for a period not to exceed four weeks:
-	These employees will be paid per the terms and conditions of the Collective Agreement.
-	During the term of the assignment, the Company will not be required to secure permission for daily and/or weekly overtime to the extent of half-hour per day.
-	Upon completion of the assignment, the employee will be returned to the job he held prior to the assignment.
4,	It is understood that the lengths of assignments specified in 2 and 3 above may be extended by mutual agreement between Company and Union.
Letter 4
ADDENDUM RELATING TO CERTAIN ITEMS CR' TEE SKILLED TRADES TRAINING PROGRAM
All apprentice training programs shall conform to the Ministry of Skills Development Regulations. The Company agrees that the first four (4) apprenticeships will be offered internally to qualified employees.
APPRENTICE RATES OF PAY
% OF SKILLED TRADE CLASSIFICATION
PERIOD
First 1000 hours Second 1000 hours Third 1000 hours Fourth 1000 hours Fifth 1000 hours Sixth 1000 hours Seventh 1000 hour8 Eighth 1000 hours
INTERNAL
APPRENTICE
70%
75%
80%
85%
85%
90%
95%
95%
EXTERNAL
APPRENTICE
60%
65%
70%
75%
80%
85%
90%
95%
The Company agrees to pay apprentices wages and benefits while at school for up to twenty-eight (28) weeks.
77
SENIORITY:
1.	The trainee will continue to accumulate seniority on th job from which he was transferred as long as he is in thl training program. Should the employee drop out of the program before his training is completed, or after he has completed the training program and there is no permanent vacancy which he can enter in his own particular trade group, he will return to the job from which he was transferred and be subject to the regular seniority program under the current collective agreement.
2.	When the trainee has successfully completed the program and is transferred to a vacancy in his own trade, at that time all his company service will be credited to his trade occupation.
OVERTIME :
Apprentices shall be the last group to be asked to work overtime in their assigned trade. The Company agrees to o££er overtime t o apprentices where there i s an opportunity for the apprentice to gain work experience required by the trade regulation but not usually available during regular hours. The Company also agree8 to notify the Union of apprentice overtime assignments.
SELECTION OF TRADE:
After the original trade selection has been made, this selection cannot be changed, except by mutual consent of the Company and trainee.
Letter 5
SUPPLEMENTARY AGREEMENT FOR SKILLED TRADES
For the Occupational Skilled Trades Classifications represented by the Union as set forth in the Collective Agreement between the Company and the Union:	Article 2, Subsection
2.02.
PURPOSE:
The purpose of this Agreement is to provide for Job Classifications and job descriptions for skilled trades and to provide a procedure for skilled tradesmen to obtain "TJ.R.W. JOURNEYMAN CARD”.
PROCEDURE:
The Company will upon request of the Union, provide a letter for a skilled trades employee in order to assist him to obtain a "U.R.W. Journeyman's Card", Such letter shall contain, to the best of the Company's ability, a true statement of the employee's work record, qualifications, and a recommendation re his qualifications for the "U.R.W. Journeyman Card”.
78
Letter 6 ' ...........................
VOLUNTARY OVERTIME, AND THE PAYMENT OF TIME AND ONE HALF (CLAUSE 6:06) WHEN AN EMPLOYEE IS LATE AND IS ASKED TO WORK OVER
Under the Collective Agreement, Clause 6,06 provides for payment of time and one half, for all hours in excess of eight hours in a twenty-four (24) hour period.
Local 677 would waive this condition of payment provided the employee who is more than two (2) hours late, for whatever reason, is not eligible to be asked for work.
If an employee is late two hours or less, and agrees to work an equivalent of hours on voluntary overtime, they would not be eligible for the time and one half payment/ as per clause 6.06f on the following day when they report for their normal shift.
The interpretation will remain in effect as long as Voluntary Overtime continues to be an Agreement between Local 677 and Uniroyal Goodrich Canada Inc., Kitchener South Plant.
The interpretation of clause 6,06 does not apply to any other circumstances other than when an employee is unable to start their shift on time and are late two (2) hours or less.
This interpretation was discussed and agreed to by the Executive Board of Local 677 at their regular monthly meeting in July, 1985.
Letter 7
SAFETY SHOE SUBSIDY
The Company agrees to reimburse employees up to the amounts shown below toward the purchase of approved safety shoes for each eligible employee:
Effective June	1,	1992	$50.00
Effective June	1,	1993	$55.00
Effective June	1,	1994	$60.00
This subsidy is subject to the following terms and conditions :
1.	The applicable amount will be paid only to employees who have established seniority and who submit an authorized receipt certifying purchase of approved safety shoes.
Probationary employees will be reimbursed up to the applicable amount toward safety shoes purchased at time of hiring provided they complete the probationary period.
2.	Reimbursement will be made only once in any twelve month period for each eligible employee, with the first payment establishing the twelve month period for each individual employee.
79
3,	Wearing of safety shoes withiff tfne "facility is mandatory
Letter 8 POOL OF HOURS
The Company will make available to the Union a p ol of hours to be administered by the Union President to cov r time lost from work by Union members for the purposes o:	conducting
legitimate Local Union matters related to the ac inistratlon of the various Collective Agreements between se parties. The number of hours available per month will - a calculated each month on the basis of 9 hours per aek per 100 employees and rounded to the nearest 5 hours, accumulative to a maximum of 400 hours.
For month of June, 1986 -
700 employees x 4,33 weeks/month x 9 hours/week
divided by 100 employees = 272.8 rounded to 275 hours
The Local Union President will provide the Manager of Industrial Relations, each Monday, with a list of names of employees, hours to be paid to each, and the employee’s personal straight-time Average Hourly Earnings plus any applicable interim increase, for the previous week.
The following example details the available hours accumulative to the maximum of 400 hours under this commitment:
Letter 9
PAYMENT FOR MEETINGS 6 UNION TIME STUDY
The Company will continue its present practice of payment for attendance at meetings and for the payment of training time for a Union time study man on the following basis:
1)	Payment for attendance at all meetings requested by the Company or the Union for the purpose of explanation of operatrng procedures commonly known as "procedure meeting" .
2)	Payment for a total of two meetings concerning new or revised incentive standard; such two meetings may be comprised of any one of the following combination's:
a) two explanation meetings; OR
Month
July,
August
Septem
Octobe
Novemb
Decemb
Januar^.
80
b)	one explanation meeting"an5?" one 'grievancemeeting; OR
c)	two grievance meetings.
3) Payment for every second meeting (half the number of
and/or arbitration levels.
4)	Payment will be made to a Union Time Study Trainee while he is being trained under Company direction.
Letter 10
UNION PRESIDENT’S PAY
The Local Union President will be reimbursed by the Company for forty (40) hours per week at the Power House Engineer (2nd Class) . rate, plus any applicable interim increase, for time spent in the conduct of legitimate Local Union matters concerning the administration of the Collective Labour Agreement.
In the absence from work of the Local Union PresidentA for periods of 4 days or less, the Local Union Acting President will be reimbursed for eight (8) hours per day at his respective Average Hourly Earnings.
In the absence from work of the Local Union President, for continuous periods of five (5) days or more, the Local Union Acting President will be reimbursed for eight (8) hours per day at the Local Union President1's rate.
Letter 11
OUTSIDE CONTRACTORS
The	practice	of	"matching"	of hours	of skilled trade
employees to	that	of outside	contractors will be discon-
tinued. The Company will continue the practice of upgrading the skills and abilities of Skilled Trade employees to reduce the use of outside contractors.
The	Company	will	continue its practice	of notifying the
Union when outside contractors are to be engaged in maintenance work in the plant. Such notice will be in writing and in advance, if possible.
The	Company	also	agrees to	use union	contractors where
possible and coat competitive in the above mentioned maintenance work.
Letter 12 PLANT CLOSURE
In the event a full plant closure of the Uniroyal Goodrich
81
Canada Inc., Kitchener South" PTant at 131 Goodrich Drive ("Kitchener South Plant") becomes necessary during the life-
this agreement:
of
1)
2)
3)
4)
notify the Local and International Union months prior to the cessation of produc-
The Company will at least six (6) tion operations.
Following such notification, the Local and International Union will have the right to discuss and explore with the Company any possible means of averting the closure.
If attempts to avert the plant closure are not successful, the plant closure provisions provided in paragraphs 4 to S shall apply. The Company and Union representatives will meet to discuss the manner in which the closure is carried out.
Benefit coverage for the benefits of Medical/Dental and Life Insurance coverage (excluding any optional coverage) shall be provided to employees whose employment is terminated by the Company as a result of the full plant closure in accordance with the following formula:
SERVICE AS AT EMPLOYES' S DATE OF TERMINATION
LIMITED BSHWIT COVERAGE AS DESCRIBED ABOVE
under 2 years
2 years but less than 5 years 5 years but less than 9 years 9 vearS but less then 14 years
14 years but less than 17 years 17 years or mere
2 months 4 months $ months
8 month8 10 months 12 months
5)	A Joint Adjustment Committee shall be established and shall consist of three (3) representative# appointed by the Company and three (3) representatives appointed by the Union. The mandate of the Committee shall he to assist employees with job search and social counselling. A Chairperson will be selected by the Committee, subject to the approval of the Industrial Adjustment Service,
6)	Subsequent to notification to the Union of the cessation of production operations, to provide for the efficient wind down of the Kitchener South Plant, the Company shall have the right to fill any position by temporary assignment and the posting and bumping procedures of the Collective Agreement shall not apply; bumping procedures shall only apply as employees are laid off to the street,
7)	The Company shall have the right to use outside contractors to dismantle and/or remove equipment and otherwise
82
provide for the cleaning" IZidT 'decommissioning of the Kitchener South Plant. However, where in the Company's judgment it is efficient to use bargaining unit members for such work they will be used.
8) In accordance with Article VIII 3(b)/ the Company and the Union shall give a written order to the trustee that the remaining assets of the S.U.B. Trust be paid to tho Coirpany. These assets shall then be paid as follows:
With respect to employees who remain in the bargaining unit after the full cessation of production operations, funds sufficient to provide for the same funding level which existed at the date of the full cessation of production operations in regard to the employees shall be transferred to an equivalent S.U.B. Plan;
Remaining funds shall be distributed on a pro rata basis among the terminated employees who have credit units in the S.U.B. plan.
Letter 13
TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGES
During 1936 negotiations, it was agreed by both parties that the trend is toward greater automation and technological change which could significantly alter the structure of the industry that remains.
In implementing any technological change, both parties recognize the importance of minimizing disruption to the workforce. With this objective in mind, it is agreed that:
a)	The Company will notify the Union of any technological changes when the necessary approvals for expenditures are obtained and earlier if possible.
b)	During the regular "state of the business'' meetings with the Union Executive, technological change items will form part of the agenda.
c)	Wherever possible, any workforce reduction will be handled by attrition.
d)	Wherever possible, remaining employees affected by technological change will be re-trained on the new equipment, operation or procedure.
Letter 14
MAINTENANCE DEPARTMENT - REGULATED TRADES SKILLED TRADES
It is the intent of the Company to introduce, and in the long term, replace the existing Skilled Trades Classifica-
83
tions with the Regulated Trades ‘uhder 'the Apprenticeship and
Tradesmen's .Qualifications Acts of the Province of Ontario The Regulations for the four (4) classifications list%s \
below will serve to outline the boric qualifications anlf skills. The current Skilled Trades Training Program will provide for the in-house training (for employees in this training program) to be deemed qualified under the referred to Regulations.
The four (4) Regulated Trades are:
1. Industrial Mechanic 2 , Industrial Electrician
3,	Steamfitter
4.	General Machinist
Regulation 43 Regulation 718/86 or 32
Regulation 124/73 Regulation 38
Method of Implementation:
Employees are required to maintain the qualification/skill levels required of the respective Regulated Trade where job related.
The Company recognizes that all employees in the current Skilled Trades designations may not have all the necessary skills or knowledge to be fully qualified under the Regulated Trades. To assist these employees to upgrade themselves, the Company will provide in-house training where applicable, as well as reimburse employees for expenses, and wages for specified and approved courses, to those who may require upgrading through Community College Courses, ICS Training, or other applicable courses. If employees make suitable arrangements through the Maintenance Department Manager to attend courses and thereby lose some time off their regular shift, or to attend seminars of up to 3 days duration, the Company will reimburse employees for lost wages from their normal shift.
During the 1992 negotiations, the Company agreed to:
a) provide published scheduler in advance providing for a shared/equitable balance of offered day shift assignments within the skilled trade classification.
b) post skilled trade job opanings.
In addition, it is understood between the Union and the Company that even though employees may not have all the necessary qualifications, if they are willing to perform all functions of the Regulated Trade, they will be paid the rate as it applies to such Regulated Trade.
DESIGNATION OF PRESENT SKILLED TRADES CLASSIFICATIONS
Maintenance Mechanic	1
Pipefitter (excluding 4)	All go to Industrial
Welder	Mechanic Regulation 43
Instrument Mechanic	J
84
Electrician	]
Electrician Electronically Qualified Instrument Mechanic	i
Pipefitter (4 employees)
All go to Industrial Electrician Regulation 718/86 or 32
Go to Steamfitter Regulation 124/73
Machinist	Go to General Machinist
Regulation 38
NOTE:	1. Instrument Mechanics have an option of either
Industrial Mechanic or Industrial Electrician depending on their desire and willingness to perform the job.
2, Pipefitters have the option of either Steamfitter (limited to four (4) employees) or Industrial Mechanic based on their desire, willingness to perform the job and seniority.
LABOURERS, GENERAL MAINTENANCE, BUILDING MAINTENANCE AND OILERS
While at is the intention o f the Company to retain a limited number of General Maintenance (which includes Battery Changers) and Oiler personnel over the longer term, it i o intended that these classifications will be reduced by attrition.
85
RATESOnpjty
Effective June 28, 1992
MINIMUM RAZZ/ GROUP BASK RAZZ PZR NO.	HOUR
EXPERIENCED UNIT	HOURLY
VALUE	RATES
1	9.352
2
3
4
5
6
9.566
9.749
9.933
10.270
10.484
15.943
16.249
16.555
(A) .17116	17.116
(8) .17473	17.473
7	10.716	17.860
(A)	Unit value .17116 to ba used by iaoantlva employee'a in the bead area
(B)	Unit value .17473 to be used by tire builders.
JOB CLASSIFICATION
Oiler
Skilled Trades
Non Regulated Regulated
Power House
EXPERIENCED HOURLY RATES
18.289
19.441
19.849
3rd Class Power House Engineer	19.482
2nd Class Power House Engineer	20.043
86