Collective
Agreement
Uniroyal Goodrich Canada Inc.
Kitchener South Plant
Local No. 677 U.R.C.L. and P.W.A
June 1st, 1989 - My 81, 1992
INDEX
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
Clause Page
Absence — Employee
Must Report .......................... 10.01-10.03
Arbitration — Step 5 .......................... 5.01
Arbitration — Wages ........................... 5.05
Arbitration — Standards ....................... 5.06
Average unit hour ............................. 7:10
Average earnings .............................. 7.11
Bereavement Pay .............................   7.27
Discharge Clause .............................. 5.15
Examples — causing discharge.
suspensions, reprimands ..................... 9.06
Grievance Procedure .........................   5.01
Grievance time limits .................... 5.11-5.13
Hiring Rates .................................. 7.12
Hours of	Work --	Normal ................. 6.01-6.02
Hours of	Work —	Overtime	............. 6.06-6.08
Hours of	Work —	Employee	must	work .......... 6.04
Interim Increase Formula ............... Appendix B
Lay-off — Reduced Production .................. 6.03
Leave of Absence — Other than
Sickness ............................. 10.04-10.05
Leave of Absence — Sickness..................  10.06
Leave of	Absence	— Military	Camp............  10.07
Leave of	Absence	— Union	 ................ 10.08
Leave of Absence — Responsibility ............ 10.09
Payment Limits ................................ 7.03
Payments — Changes on time sheets.............. 7.09
Payments — Special Limits. Incentive
Employees ................................... 7.16
Payments — Special: Experienced Incentive Employees
Payments — off standard...................... 7.17
Payments — Work Available on his job........	7.18
Payments — Developments or
Experimental ............................... 7.19
Payments — Mechanical etc. delays ........... 7.20
Payments — Abnormal stock conditions ........ 7.21
Payments — Group Operations ................. 7.22
Payments — Productive work below 60
Unit Hour..................................  7.24
Payments — Hourly Rated Employees ............. 7.25
Payments — Experienced Incentive and Hourly Rated Employees
Reports for Work — No Work Available ........ 7.26
Funeral Pay ...............................   7.27
Accounting Inventory ........................ 7.28
Jury Duty ..................................  7.29
52-53
9-10
11
11
24
24
28-29
14
50
9-10
12-13
24
15-16
17
16
68
16
53
53
54
54
55 22
24
25
25
25
26 26 26 26
27
27
28
28-	29 29
29-	30
Clause Page
Attending Ifcgitsl.. Injured or Sick.......... 7.30
Payments for Learners .................... 7.31-7.37
Payments Special — Learners. Group
Operations .................................. 7.38
Record Card -- Reprimands, etc............ 9.03-9.06
Rest Periods .................................. 7.14
Shift Premiums ................................ 7.13
Statutory Holidays......................- J6.10-6.19
Standards — Incentive Permanent................ 7.02
Incentive Estimated........................   7.02
Incentive Effective .................... 7.05-7.06
Incentive Protested ......................... 7.08
Incentive Union Time Study .................. 7.08
Seniority
Address Important ........................... 8.02
Hiring Date.................................. 8.04
Seniority Privileges ........................ 8.05
Management .................................  8.25
Job Seniority .......................... 8.07-8.09
Residence Rights...........................   8.10
For Lay-Off Procedure ....................... 8.11
For Recall .................................. 8.13
Supervisory or Salaried Employees............ 8.23
Back Service Credit ......................... 8.16
Loaned Conditions ........................... 8.20
Transfer Rights ............................... 8.19
Shift Preference.............................   8.24
Vacation
Service - Weds - Payment.................... 11.01
Sick or Injured Employee.................... 11.07
Resigns or Discharged.....................   11.09
Laid-Off ................................... 11.10
Minimum ...................................  11.12
Appendices
Weekend Work Crew ........................Appendix	A
C.O.L.A. .................................Appendix	B
J.X.T., S.P.C...........................  Appendix	C
Module Concept - Tire Building .......... Appendix	D
Non-Value-Added Jobs .................... Appendix	E
Measured Day Work.......................  Appendix	F
Letters of Understanding....................... 1-14
30-	31
31-	33
AGREEWENT
This agreement made and entered into this 1st day of June, 1989, by and between Uniroyal Goodrich Canada Inc., Kit* chener South Plant, Kitchener, Ontario, hereinafter called the "Company", and the United Rubber, Cork, Linoleum, and Plastic Workers of America Local #677 thereof, hereinafter called the "Union", for the occupational classifications represented by the Union as set forth in Article 2, Subsection 2.01.
ARTICLE I Purpose
It is the mutual desire of the parties to this agreement to promote co-operation and harmony, and to provide an amicable method of settling differences which might arise hereunder.
ARTICLE II Recognition
2.01	The Company recognizes the Union as the sole Collective Bargaining Agent for all hourly-rated and incentive employees of the Company at its Tire Plant in the "city of Kitchener, SAVE AND EXCEPT foremen, persons above the rank of foremen, watchmen, guards, production schedulers, office employees.
2.02	The Company agrees to meet and negotiate with the representatives of the Union on matters pertaining to rates of pay, hours of work, and working conditions.
2.03	Wherever the masculine gender appears in this Agreement, it shall be construed as meaning male or female, unless the context in the clause requires otherwise.
ARTICLE III
Deduction of Union Dues
3.01	The Company agrees to deduct from the wages of any employees who are members of the Union who individually and voluntarily certify in writing that they authorize such deduction, their union dues, new member dues, rejoining fees and general assessments in accordance with the International Constitution of the U.R.C.L. & P.W.A. and remit said deductions to the Treasurer cf Local #677 U.R.C.L. & P.W.A,
5
Individual check-off authorizations which have been signed by employees shall be irrevocable during the life of this Agreement and any extension thereof.
3.02	Any person hired as a new employee and any employee who is hereafter transferred into the bargaining unit on or after the effective date of this Agreement shall become a member of the Union on the date of employment or transfer, and shall as a condition of employment, maintain his membership in the Union to the extent of paying membership dues.
3.03	Any employee who is in the bargaining unit and who is not a member of the Union shall become a member of the Union not later than fifteen (15) days from the effective date of this Agreement and shall, as a condition of employment, maintain his membership in the Union to the extent of paying membership dues. Ai employee who is on layoff, on leave of absence, or absence due to injury or illness shall comply with the requirement of this section not later than fifteen (15) days following his return to work
3.04	Clauses 3.01, 3.02, 3.03 shall not apply to an employee who is denied membership in the Union or whose membership therein has been terminated for reasons other than his failure to tender the regular monthly membership dues in
such amount as may be fixed by the local union in accordance with the procedure prescribed by the Constitution of the International Union.
3.05	(a) In the event any employee fails to become a member of the union as provided in Clause 3.02 or 3.03 above, the union shall give written notice to the company and to such employee of such failure. Such employee shall not be retained on a job in the bargaining unit unless he has, within two (2) weeks after receipt of such notice, presented evidence that he has become a member of the union, or that he was denied a membership for reasons other than hie failure to tender the regular monthly membership dues in such amount as may be fixed by the local union in accordance with the procedure prescribed by the Constitution of the International Union.
(b) Any employee who has become a member of the union and who thereafter fails to maintain his membership in the union to the extent of paying membership dues shall not be retained in the employ of the company, provided that the union shall have given written notice to the Company and to such employee of such failure and such employee shall have failed to comply with the provisions of this Article within thirty (30) days after the receipt of such notice.
3.06	Authorizations for union deductions shall be automatically revoked upon:
6
(a)	Termination of employment
(b)	Transfer of employment into an occupation outside the bargaining unit.
The Company will, however, deduct the monthly union dues and/or new member dues from the payoff cheques or S.U.B. payments of those members in (a) who have had insufficient dues deducted in either the month they have terminated their employment and/or the month previous, provided such employee has worked thirty-two (32) or more hours in such month or months and has sufficient earnings. The Company will also deduct monthly union dues from the current month from those employees in (b) who worked in the bargaining unit Cor thirty-two (32) or more hours in such month.
3.07	Authorizations for union deductions shall be signed in triplicate by the employees concerned and their signature must be witnessed by an employee cf the Company. One copy shall be given to the employee who authorized his deduction, one copy to a representative cf Local 1677, and one copy will be forwarded to the Company Payroll Department. The following forms of authorizations shall be used.
"A"
I hereby authorize Uniroyal Goodrich Canada Inc., to deduct from my wages or S.U.B. payments owing to me, in each month on a weekly basis, a total of the current monthly sum, or such other amount as may be revised by the local union in accordance with the Constitution of the International Union, or by action of the Convention of the International Union, in accordance with and for the duration of the Collective Agreement between Uniroyal Goodrich Canada Inc., Kitchener South Plant and Local 1677, U.R.C.L. £ P.W.A. dated June 1, 1989. Please remit this sum monthly to Local 1677 as my membership dues. This assignment is irrevocable during the life of the Agreement, but becomes void upon:
a)	termination cf employment, or
b)	transfer to an occupation outside the bargaining unit.
I understand that it shall place no liability cf any kind upon Uniroyal Goodrich Canada Inc. by virtue of your action in honouring in good faith this assignuent and authorization.
Bap. No.................... Signed ........................
(employee)
Dept, lo...................Witness ........................
Date..............Address .................................
7
Application for Membership
On this ................................... I hereby make
application for membership in Local 1677, U.R.C.L. & P.W.A., and if accepted, I do hereby authorize Uniroyal Goodrich Canada Inc. to deduct from my wages owing to me on the earliest pay day of the first month the current sun, or such other amount as may be revised in accordance with the' Constitution of the International Union, or by action of the Convention of the International Union, as my new member duet or rejoining fee in accordance with the Collective Agreement between the said parties, dated June 1, 1989. This new member's dues or rejoining fee deduction will alto include my first regular union due8 instalment and shall be remitted to Local #677.
I understand that it shall place no liability of any kind upon Uniroyal Goodrich Canada Inc. by virtue of your action in honouring in good faith this assignment and authorization.
Bmp. No. ................. Signed........................
(employee)
Date
Witness
The union shall give the Company written notice in advance of any change in the amounts expressed in Schedules "A" or
"B"
3.08	Authorizations for deductions shall be effective from the earliest pay payable of the month provided the employee has worked and/or received the equivalent of thirty-two (32) or more hours and/or received the equivalent in S.U.B. payments in such month. If the employee is entitled to no pay or has insufficient wages on any pay day then the current deduction shall become an arrear.
3.09	The Company Payroll Department shall make current and arrear deductions from the wages or payments of union members in accordance with the authorizations then in hi8 hands. The Company Payroll Department will forward the deductions within five (5) days of such pay to the Treasurer of Local #677, U.R.C.L. & P.W.A.
3.10	The Company shall name the employee from whose pay the union deductions were made and shall classify such as either current or arrears. The Company shall also name the employees from vtfrm no deductions were made and shall classify such employees as:
a)	Where they have terminated employment and classed as laid off, discharged, or quit.
b)	Where they have been transferred into an occupation outside the bargaining unit.
c)	Where they did not have sufficient wages or payments by the fourth pay day of the month.
The Company shall also name the employee who was transferred and his employee number in the department to which he was transferred.
3.11	The Union shall indemnify and save the Company harm-leas from any claims, suits, judgements, attachments, and from other form of liability as a result of the Company making any deductions in accordance with the foregoing authorizations and assignments and the Union will refund directly to all employees on whom a wrongful deduction was made.
3.12	Both parties agree that there will be no discrimination, coercion, or intimidation of employees in respect to union membership or authorization of union deductions.
3.13	The Union agrees that neither it nor any of its officers or members will collect union dues, new member dues, or rejoining fees on Company time.
ARTICLE IV Company Security
4.01	It is recognized that the continuity of production free from work stoppages, slowdowns, or strikes is essential to the efficient and economical operation of the Company's business.
4.02	It is agreed that the Company shall have the right to reasonably discipline employees who violate any provisions of this Agreement. If the Union questions that the Agreement has been violated, the Union shall have the right to avail itself of the grievance procedure as provided in Article V of this Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Grievance Procedure
5.01 The employee who has a complaint shall refer it to his immediate foreman either directly or through his union
9
representative. If the complaint is not satisfactorily settled, it may then be treated as a grievance and may be reduced to writing, dated and approved by the proper Union official. The grievor's foreman, department manager or the shift manager shall acknowledge the request for a grievance meeting by signing the grievance form in the appropriate place. The grievance thereafter shall be processed through the following channels in sequence.
Step 1 The Department steward and the Shift Manager and/ or his authorized representative. A steward shall be a member of the department which he represents. However, in the case of a small department, a steward can be a member of another department.
Step 2 The department steward, President, Vice-president and/or their authorized representative(a) and the Department Manager of the grievor's department and/or his authorized representative(s).
If a steward, at Step #1 or #2, is away from the plant and will either not be available within a reasonable period of time to negotiate the grievance, or it is desired that the grievance be processed without undue delay, the President, Vice-president and/or their authorized representative(s) may be substituted.
Step 3 The department steward and/or a member or members cf the bargaining committee and the Manager Hunan Resources and/or his authorized representatives. An international representative may only attend upon prior approval of the Manager Hunan Resources.
Step 4 The department steward and/or a member or members of the bargaining committee, and the Manager Hunan Resources, and the Director of Manufacturing and/or their authorized representatives. An International representative shall attend upon request of the Union.
Step 5 Any grievance arising from the interpretation, application, administration, or alleged violation of the Agreement, including incentive standards, which has not been settled under the grievance procedure including any question as to whether a matter i s arbitrable may within, but not more than thirty-five (35) calendar days after completion of Step 14 be submitted to arbitration by either party. When either party to this Agreement requests that a grievance be submitted to arbitration, they make such request in writing, and address same to the other party. Such request shall contain insofar as possible, a complete and accurate statement of the grievance matter to be arbitrated. Within five (5) calendar days of receipt
10
of this notice, each party shall appoint an arbitrator, and notify the other party of ita appointee. The two arbitrators so appointed shall select a chairman of the	arbitration board within five (5)	calendar
days. In the event of failure to agree upon a chairman, either or both parties shall make application to the Minister of tabour for Ontario, asking that he nominate a chairman.
5.02	A decision by the majority cf the arbitration board shall be final and binding upon both parties and the eo-ployees.
5.03	Each cf the parties shall gay the charger and expenses of its appointees. The charges and expenses of the chairman of the arbitration board (if any) shall be borne equally by the Company and the Union.
5.04	The arbitration board shall not be authorized to make any decision inconsistent with the provisions of this Agreement, nor to alter, modify, or amend any part of the Agreement. Unless mutually agreed, po matter may be submitted to arbitration which has not been properly carried through all previous steps of the grievance procedure.
5.05	(a) In all cases of arbitration, a single arbitrator will be substituted for a Board of Arbitration provided for in this Article V unless the Union and the Company mutually agree to proceed by means of a Board of Arbitration.
(b) In all cases cf substitution of a single arbitrator
for a Board of Arbitration, as outlined in subsection (a) above, all other applicable provisions of Article V will continua to apply so far as they are relevant.
5.05	Grievances on occupational hourly rate ceilings and base rates in effect on the effective date of this Agreement are not subject to arbitration. Grievance8 pertaining to hourly rates under cuilags and new base rater established after the effective date of this Agreement (except those rates affected by general wage adjustments) shall be subject to the arbitration procedure as defined in STEP 5 except that in such instances a single arbitrator will be substituted for the arbitration board.
This arbitrator will be selected by agreement between the parties or by the Minister of Labour for Ontario if the parties fail to agree on their selection within five (5) days after either party files a request for arbitration of the grievance, and he shall be a member cf a reputable industrial engineering company and knowledgeable in the field of Industrial Engineering.
5.07	On a question pertaining to incentive standards and/or the application or cancellations of fixed process allowances for physically restricted increments of time and variable process allowance schedules in connection with an incentive standard, the Company and Union arbitrators shall appoint a reputable industrial engineering company for advice and counsel. Failing agreement on such appointment, the Chairman of the arbitration board shall make the appointment.
The Company so selected shall be required to make a thorough time study of the standard and/or process allowance schedule that is questioned before reporting to the Board. The charges and expenses of the industrial engineering company shall be borne equally by the Company and the Union.
5.08	Any difference between the Company and the Union as to the interpretation of this Agreement and any allegation by either party that the other ha8 violated any terms of this Agreement, shall be deemed to be a grievance. In the event that such interpretation affects all employees in the bargaining unit, it shall be presented originally in STEP 3 of the grievance procedure.
5.09	Meetings will be arranged promptly in accordance with clause 5.13 to suit the convenience of the parties, but insofar as possible not to interfere with working hours. An aggrieved employee may be required to attend a meeting by either party. However, no mare than one employee shall be requested to attend a meeting unless it is mutually felt that more than one is necessary.
5.10 If a problem arises requiring a steward to contact employees during working hours, such contact shall be arranged by the steward through either the immediate foreman or the Department Manager concerned.
5.11	Executive Officers of the Union, Stewards and authorized local Union representatives (a current list to be provided by,the Union) shall be permitted to enter the plant when off shift for the purpose of investigating grievances or conducting Union business. Before entering the plant , he shall comply with Company security regulations then in effect which regulations currently provide as follows:
1)	He shall register with the security guard and be issued a pass.
2)	He shall present his pass to the foreman of the employee to be interviewed and secure his permission to contact the employee so that the least possible delay will result. Such pass shall be signed by the foreman designating the time of entry and departure from the department.
12
3)	Upon his departure from the plant, he shall register out and surrender his pass to the security guard.
5.12	Within three (3) working days excluding Saturday, Sunday, and holidays, after receiving a dated grievance, supervision shall answer in writing giving the necessary information to show the solution or the action being taken toward the solution of the grievance.
5.13	A request for a meeting on a grievance may be written and if in writing, it shall be in triplicate signed by the steward concerned, and presented to management in the following manner :
At Step #1 of the grievance procedure, the steward will present copies 1 and 2 of the written request to the Shift Manager or his authorized representative. Such written request shall be dated as of the date of presentation. The Shift Manager or his authorized representative will initial receipt of same on both copies and return copy number 2 to the steward. If the grievance is not settled at Step #1, and the Union desires to obtain a meeting at Step #2 of the grievance procedure, the President or Vice-president of the Union or a representative authorized by them will present copies 2 and 3 of the written request signed by the contact man to the Department Hanager concerned and such copies shall contain the date of presentation. The above manager will initial receipt of same on both copies and return copy .number 2 to the Union contact man.
If the grievance is not settled at Step 12 and the Union desires to obtain a meeting at Step 13 and subsequently at Step |4, the Union will arrange such meeting or meetings with the Hanager Human Resources through their normal contact at such steps. Such request will not be made in writing.
A meeting on a grievance shall be scheduled within three (3) working days excluding Saturday, Sunday and holidays, after the date of request for a meeting or at such later date as may be mutually agreed. If succeeding meetings at any step in the grievance procedure are required, they shall be arranged within three (3) working days unless otherwise mutually agreed upon; provided however, meetings shall not be scheduled on Saturday, Sunday, or holidays except by mutual agreement.
5.14	The Union agrees that the final written answer of management to a grievance at any step in the grievance procedure shall dispose of the grievance unless such grievance is appealed within ten (10) calendar days from the date of management's final answer. The only exception shall be that of an appeal to arbitration wherein thirty-five (35)
13
calendar days is allowed.
5.15	If the Company requests the presence of an employee at a meeting, the Company shall compensate the employee for such tine as follows:
Time Work - At his customary hourly rate.
Incentive - The Base Rate of his job at hi8 average unit hour.
In addition, the employee will be paid any shift premium to which he would be entitled for hours lost from his normal shift because of such meeting. Company agrees to provide all grievance meeting minutes to the local Union.
5.16	Discharge Clause
If an employee feels that he has been unjustly suspended or discharged, he shall have the right to appeal his case in accordance with the grievance procedure set forth in Article V of this Agreement. Such appeal must be in writing addressed to the Company and the Union, and must be in the Corrpany's hands no later than three (3) working days, excluding Saturday, Sunday and holidays, after the effective date of his suspension or discharge.
if such appeal is properly made, the matter shall be negotiated through the regular channels and if it is determined that the employee has been unjustly suspended or discharged, he shall be reinstated to his former position without loss of seniority, and shall be compensated at his average earnings for normal hours lost from work because of the suspension or discharge less any penalty mutually agreed or decided by arbitration.
It is understood that when a department manager receives a written grievance pertaining to the appealing of a suspension or discharge, he shall be available for negotiating such grievance within one (1) working day, excluding Saturday, Sunday and holidays, after the receiving of the grievance.
Both patties of Step #2 shall be available for negotiating such grievance within one (1) working day, excluding Saturday, Sunday and holidays, after the completion of Step fl.
Both parties of Step 13 shall be available for negotiating such grievance within one (1) working day, excluding Saturday, Sunday and holidays, after the completion of Step #2.
Both parties of Step #4 shall be available for negotiating such grievance within one (1) working day, excluding
14
Saturday, Sunday and holidays, after the completion of Step #3.
One (1) day as referenced in this clause may be extended by mutual agreement.
In the event an employee is suspended or discharged, the foreman concerned shall notify such employee's steward within one working day, excluding Saturday, Sunday and holidays, following the effective day of such suspension or discharge.
5.17	The Company and the Union desire that, insofar as possible, all grievances should be settled at the first step of the grievance procedure. A grievance after it has reached Step #3 shall not be settled at any previous step unless with the consent of the Manager Human Resources or his authorized representatives and the bargaining committee or their authorized representatives. Both parties agree to follow the grievance procedure in the sequence of steps as outlined in this Article.
5.18	The Union agrees there shall be no strike, partial or complete, slowdown, or stoppage of work on grievances that are proper subjects for arbitration, nor shall there be any strike, partial or complete, slowdown or stoppage of work on grievances that are not proper subjects for arbitration. The Company agrees there shall be no lock-out under the same conditions.
The Union agrees that in event of a legal strike, employees in the bargaining unit will provide €or maintenance and operation of all essential services for the protection of plant property and products. It is understood that if the Union feels that the Company is requesting more employees in an individual occupation than are necessary Cor such maintenance, such problem will be negotiated to a satisfactory conclusion.
ARTICLE VI Hours of Work
6.01 The normal working hours for employees in the bargaining unit, excepting Power House Engineers, shall be eight (8) hours per day and forty (40) hours per week. The normal work week shall be from 11:45 p.m. Sunday to 11:45 p.m. Friday. The normal day of eight hours as expressed herein shall not be exceeded, except it is recognized that an eight (8) hour day shall be exceeded in the starting and stopping cf weekend shifts, replacement of absentees, and in cases of emergency: an emergency shall be determined on a mutual basis by the Company and the Union Representative.
15
6.02	The normal working hours for Power House Engineers shall be eight (8) hours per day and an average of forty-four (44) hours per calendar week based on a two-calendar week period of forty (40) hours and a two-calendar week period of forty-eight (48) hours.
6.03	In a period of reduced production for any reason, for not than a period of four (4) consecutive days' duration, working hours in a department or in a group within a department, shall be maintained at a reasonable level by the application of the following subsections in their chronological order.
1.	Employees who have no seniority privileges shall be laid off before the hours of employees who have seniority privileges are affected.
2.	If, with the layoff of employees as in Subsection 1, it is evident that hours will be less than normal weekly hours of forty (40) hours, then transferred employees who were transferred under 8.19 and have not attained residence rights will be transferred back to the department from which they were transferred.
3.	If with the layoffs according to Subsection 1 and transfers according to Subsection 2, it is evident that available hours will be less than normal weekly hours of forty (40) hours, then employees with seniority privileges will be laid off until a normal week of forty (40) hours is provided for the remaining employees.
Lay-offs made through the application of the above procedures in Sections 1,	2 and 3 are made in conjunction with
the lay-off procedures laid down in Article VIII of this agreement.
$.04 The Union recognizes that it is the function of the Company to schedule hours of work and the employee's obligation to work the hours scheduled, provided the hours scheduled do not violate the "Employment Standards Act of the Province of Ontario" and regulations thereunder. Overtime for production employees between 3:45 p.m. Saturday, and 11:45 p.m. Sunday, during July and August shall be scheduled on a voluntary basis.
6.05	The Company agrees not to schedule less than four (4) hours work in any given shift, provided this shall not restrict the right of the Company to schedule less than four (4) hours under the provision of clause 6.08.
16
OVERTIME
6.06	Hours worked between 11:45 p.m. Friday and 11:45 p.m. Saturday shall be compensated at the rate of time and one-half. Hours worked between 11:45 p.m. Saturday and 11:45 p.m. Sunday, shall be compensated at the rate of double time.
6.07	Hours worked in excess of eight (8) hours in a twenty-four-hour period shall be compensated at the rate of time and one-half, excepting:
a)	When the hours of an employee exceed his normal daily hours because he substituted for another employee other than at the Company's request, changed his hours at his own request, or made a regular shift change. (A regular shift change normally occurs once per week).
b)	Fa* time spent in meetings, however, time lost off the employee's standard shift due to attending meetings at the plant shall be considered as part of the normal shift hours in determining overtime on his regular shift.
c) When an employee reports for work on his regular shift and if sent home before the end of his regular shift and is required to report back for work within the twenty-four (24) hour period, he shall be paid time and one-half for all hours worked on call-back beyond his normal stopping time of his regular shift.
d)	That overtime premium paid will not be paid twice for the same hours worked or paid for.
6.08	An employee who is called into work at any time between one-half (1/2) hour after he has left work and one (1) hour before his normal starting time, shall be paid a minimum of four (4) hours at his overtime rate.
6.09	It is understood and agreed that normal? as expressed in this Article are not to be construed as meaning hours of work that the Company will guarantee employees. It is, however, further understood and agreed that in the application of clause 6.03 where hours are less than normal and can reasonably be corrected by layoff of employees, then such employees will be laid off.
HOLIDAYS
6.10	An employee who qualifies will be paid for eight (8) hours when not worked (Exception: a part time employee as defined in Clause 8.06 will only be paid for scheduled time lost) for the following holidays: Nw Year's Day, Good
17
Friday, Victoria Day, Canada Day, Civic Holiday, Labour Day, Thanksgiving Day, Remembrance Day, Christinas Day, and Boxing Day and six (6) floating holidays, the dates of which have been negotiated for the term of this agreement as outlined below.
Holidays will start at 11:45 p.m. the night immediately preceding the holiday and will end at 11:45 p.m. of the holiday. When a paid holiday is observed on a Saturday or Sunday, payment will be made for such holiday on the same basis as would apply if such holiday was observed on a normal day of the week. If a designated holiday falls on a Saturday or a Sunday, it shall be observed on a Friday or a Monday, with the exception of Remembrance Day.
Negotiated placement of six (6) floaters and certain statutory holidays:
1ST YEAR June 1, 1989 to Hay 31, 1990
observe July 1, 1989 on July 3, 1989 observe! November 11, 1989 on December 29, 1989 Jlst floater December 27, 1989 42nd floater December 28, 1989.
2ND YEAR June 1, 1990 to Hap 31, 1991
observe July 1, 1990 on July 2, 1990 observe November 11, 1990 on December 24, 1990 1st floater December 27, 1990 2nd floater December 28, 1990.
3RD YEAR June 1, 1991 to Hay 31, 1992
observe November 11, 1991 on December 31, 1991 1st floater December 27, 1991 2nd floater December 30, 1991.
6.11	In order for an employee to qualify for payment of wages for the paid holidays specified in clause 6.10 when not worked, he must report for work at the starting time of his shift and be prepared to work the scheduled hours of his shift on both the last scheduled work day preceding and the first scheduled work day following the paid holiday. The employee who thus qualifies shall be paid the hours as defined in 6.10 at his average earnings.
EXCEPTIONS: An employee who is unable to report for work on
the qualifying days because:
1. He was late reporting for work due to a reason beyond his control that is acceptable to the Company.
18
2. He is confined to a hospital or at home due to sickness or injury and is, therefore, in the Company's opinion, prevented from working. This exception is limited to two (2) paid holidays during the same confinement case and provided the employee is not entitled to payment under Workers' Compensation,
EXCEPTION:	When two (2) paid holidays occur during the
same two (2) day waiting period that an employee must wait before qualifying for a weekly indemnity payment under clause 4.02 of Article IV of the Insurance Program Agreement, such day or days shall be considered part of the waiting period.
If an employee is on sick leave and drawing sickness and accident benefits, the employee will be paid sick leave benefits for the holidays for which he or she is entitled, and upon returning to work will be reimbursed the difference between what the employee was paid as sick benefits and what the employee would be paid for holiday pay.
3.	He has an approved Leave cf Absence which will be granted under the following conditions:
The foreman will, upon request, grant a Leave of Absence to an employee up to but not exceeding five (5) calendar days in order for an employee to attend:
a)	The funeral of the employee's mother, mother-in-
law, father, father-in-law, sister, sister-in-law, brother,	brother-in-law,	grandparents,
great-grandparents, grandchildren, aunt, uncle, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, husband, wife, and blood or adopted children, and spouse's grandparents, great-grandparents, brother-in-law and sister-in-law.
b)	Serious illness in the employee's immediate family which shall include such illness on the part of the employee' s mother, mother-in-law, father, father-in-law, sister, brother, husband, wife, grandparents, great-grandparents, grandchildren, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, and blood or adopted children.
The employee who would otherwise have qualified except for the exceptions herein stated, shall be paid for such holidays .
6.12	Time worked on a paid holiday by the employee who qualifies for holiday pay shall be paid at the rate of double time in addition to the pay he would receive for the
19
paid holiday.
6.13	Ai employee who fails to qualify for pay on the paid holiday and who works on such holiday shall be paid at the rate of double time for time worked.
6.14	An employee is entitled to holiday pay if the paid holiday occurs during his paid vacation leave, provided such employee works the last scheduled work day preceding and the first scheduled work day following his vacation leave and qualifies under conditions outlined in clause 6.11. Subject to mutual agreement, such employee may, if he so desires, be granted another day of leave either on the Monday following or the Friday prior to the holiday, or another day within thirty (30) days of such holiday, provided such holiday does not occur during a shutdown period for vacation.
6.16, Ai employee will not be entitled to holiday pay while on leave of absence and such holiday occurs during his leave of absence excepting in a case where an employee is granted a leave of absence to attend a meeting or convention pertaining to Company, Union, or Municipal matters or other exceptions under leave of absences specifically provided in this Article.
6.16	Ai employee may request a leave of absence prior to and/or subsequent to a paid holiday. Department managers are authorized to grant a leave if such employee is not required to meet production requirements. Provided the leave is granted and is not in excess of seven (7) consecutive calendar days, the employee who otherwise qualifies shall be paid for such paid holiday.
6.17	Ai employee who is laid off on a date that is within five (5) normal working days immediately preceding the paid holiday specified in clause 6.10 shall be paid for such holiday.
6.18	When the plant or any part thereof suspends operations, the employee who is laid off for a definite period not exceeding two (2) calendar weeks because of such suspension, shall upon re-hire be paid for the paid holiday or holidays that occur during such lay-off provided he otherwise qualifies under the conditions outlined in clause 6.11.
6.19	The words, "holiday" or "holidays" as used in any and all clauses cf this Agreement mean and include only those days specified in clause 6.10.
20
ARTICLE VII WAGE POLICIES
7.01	Individual base rates and hourly rate ceilings in effect on the effective date of this Agreement shall remain in effect during the life of this Agreement, except that a change in any rate may be made by mutual agreement.
7.02	Permanent incentive standards shall be established or revised in accordance with the time study practices of the Company which will provide far the accurate measurement of the physical effort required to perform operations. In the revision of a permanent incentive standard, only the elements affected by a change in method, equipment, products, tools, materials, design, or other production conditions shall be revised.
Estimated Incentive Standards:	Estimated incentive stan-
dards may be established and used for certain periods of time to provide incentive standard coverage on various operations until permanent incentive standards ate made effective. The life of an estimated standard is sixty (60) days, and can only be extended by mutual agreement.
When establishing an estimated incentive standard, a procedure covering the operation must be drafted before time studies are taken.
Estimated standards differ from permanent standards in that the elemental values are not guaranteed, and when replaced by a permanent standard, the values of the permanent standard can be established without any reference to the elemental values of the estimated standard.
All data for estimated standards is to be available to the
Union upon request.
Grievances on estimated standards can be negotiated up to and including the third step level. If no agreement is reached at third step between the Company and the Union, the estimated standard shall be automatically cancelled. All meetings requested by the Union or the Company on procedures, explanations or protests shall be paid for at the customary hourly rate or base rate and average unit hour on the same basis as is now in effect on permanent standards.
Any increase negotiated on estimated standards shall be
retroactive to the date of posting.
Estimated standards in effect in the various departments will be reviewed every two (2) months by the Company and the Union, and the Industrial Engineering Department will be
21
responsible for arranging these review meetings.
Where the earnings of an employee are lower than his "average earnings” during the above period, the Company shall upon request, replace such with:
a)	where an employee was paid on incentive immediately prior to the application cf the estimated standard, payments in accordance with clause 7.17.
b)	where an employee was paid an hourly rate immediately prior to the application of the estimated standard, his hourly rate.
It is recognized there may be temporary periods of time when incentive standards may not conform to the foregoing due to minor changes in work content which may increase or decrease the incentive standard in effect. In such instances, the Company shall have the right to either cancel or apply such standards and if an increase in effort is required, the Company shall allow time work for work added in addition to the incentive standard.
7.03	No employee shall be paid in excess of a 95 unit hour except that employees will have the opportunity to earn and be paid in excess cf a 95 unit hour up to a maximum of a 100 unit hour with a clean time sheet.
7.04	Incentive standards may contain, allowances for physically restricted increments of time or be supplemented by fixed process allowance to arrive at the incentive pay standard. The fact that supplementation may be currently necessary does not prohibit the Company from replacing supplementation with true physical work at some future time.
7.05	A new or revised incentive standard which has been posted for four (4) or more hours shall become effective at the starting time of the shift immediately following the posting cf said standard. After an employee has worked on a new or revised incentive standard for a period of four (4) days but not exceeding fifteen (15) days, he may through his steward, protest such standard by a written grievance to his Department Manager. The grievances shall be negotiated to a final settlement.
Any adjustments or settlement made shall be retroactive to the date such a standard was made effective, but shall not
apply to an employee not on the active payroll as of the
date of the final settlement. An employee who is on leave of absence, pension, severance award, or laid off as of date of final settlement, shall be included.
Upon request of the Union, the Company shall make available
a2
at the Company's office, the tine and pool sheets used in determining such retroactive pay. When an incentive standard becomes effective and there is less than four (4) days production, but more than twenty-four (24) hours production available in the following fifteen (15) working days, the twenty-four (24) hours of production shall be considered as the trial period. When there is less than twenty-four (24) hours production available in the fifteen (15) working days, the first shift production shall be considered as the trial period.
An incentive standard, or process allowance schedule, that is posted, tried and protested and because of protest is revised, shall not require a further trial period.
During the period of fifteen (15) working days after a new or revised incentive standard has been posted, same may be revised provided an error has been made in compilation or all conditions pertaining to the establishment of such standard have not been studied.
The application or cancellation of fixed process allowances for physically restricted increments of time or variable process allowance schedules i n connection with an incentive standard nay be protested and negotiated under the same conditions as provided i n this clause 7.05 for the protest and negotiations of incentive standards.
7.06	When a re-issued incentive standard is posted, it shall become effective twenty-four (24) hours following the posting of said standard.
7.07	When time studies are being taken for the purpose of establishing incentive standards, job procedure(s) shall be posted forty-eight (48) hours prior to the study. No employee of the Company in an official administrative or supervisory capacity shall take part in any work performed by the employee while such studies are in progress.
7.08	When an incentive standard is protested and is under consideration at Step 14 of the grievance procedure, the Company, upon request of the Union, will permit a Time Study Engineer of the International Union, U.R.C.L. & P.W.A. to make studies of the operation covered by the disputed incentive standard.
Such Union Time Study Engineer must be experienced in the time study practices of the Company and must use the Company work measurement techniques in his studies. Any such studies by said engineer shall be made in conjunction with a Time Study Engineer of the Company and if such studies are to be used in further negotiation and/or arbitration, a comparison of the results of the studies shall be made prior to or
23
during further negotiations and/or arbitration procedure.
Upon request, pertinent time study data and other information used or related in determining any new, revised, or protested incentive standard will be made available to the Union for inspection in the Company's office.
7.09	The foreman will notify the employee of a change made on the employee's time sheet where such changes will affect the employee's earnings. The employee shall be notified of such change on his next working shift, or as soon as possible and will be given a copy of time sheet in question.
If the change is of a recurring nature and the employee does not agree with the change and sane is protested through the grievance procedure, the employee shall mark his time sheet as instructed by his foreman until a final decision is rendered,
7.10	Average unit hour shall mean the arithmetic average paid unit hour for all work performed by the employee on his regular job during the next last pay period in which he worked a majority of hours on such job covered by incentive standards that were not under protest and on which no special allowance or guarantee was paid. When standards are protested between the fourth (4th) and fifteenth (15th) day of the trial period specified in clause 7.05, such protest shall be deemed to have been in effect on the first day of the trial period for the purpose of applying this paragraph. Said average unit hour shall be established by the Company Payroll Department from the employee's weakly payroll card. Except that when it is not practical to determine the average unit hour by this procedure, such average unit hour will be determined by another mutually agreed procedure.
7.11	Average earnings shall mean total earnings, excluding shift premium and overtime premium, paid the employee during the next last gay period divided by total hours worked during said pay period. Except that when it is not practical to determine average earnings by the above procedure, such average earnings will be determined by another mutually agreed procedure.
7.12	Effective June lr 1989 the hiring rates for:
a)	Incentive employees will be the base rate of the job to which he is hired. The base rate of the job will be the minimum and maximum guarantees throughout the learning schedule.
b)	Hourly rated employee8 will be the hiring rate of the job to which he is hired as indicated on the learning schedule issued to cover the job.
a4
7.13	a) A shift premium of thirty-five (35) cents per hour
shall be paid for hours worked on the third shift (3:45 p.m. to 11:45	p.m.) and forty (40) cents per hour for hours
worked on the first shift (11:45 p.m. to 7:45 a.m.)
b) A day shift worker shall not be entitled to shift premium, a day shift worker is an employee whose normal day shift ends on or before 4:45 p.m.
c)	Shift premium shall not be included in the calculations of an employee's overtime rate.
7.14	The Company agrees to continue the present practice of permitting a rest period not in excess of twelve (12) minutes per shift and a lunch period not in excess of eighteen (18) minutes per shift.
7.15	Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, experienced employees will be paid the base rate or hourly rate of the job to which they are assigned and shall be guaranteed such base rate or hourly rate as minimum earnings.
SPECIAL PAYMENTS APPLYING TO EXPERIENCED INCENTIVE EMPLOYEES
7.16	Under certain conditions, experienced employees
normally working on incentive operations may be limited for temporary periods of time in their opportunity to maintain their normal incentive earnings. In such situations covered by clauses 7.17, 7.18,	7.19, 7.20,	7.21 and 7.22 listed
below, employees shall be guaranteed special rate payments as provided herein. However, employees receiving any of the special rate payments listed below, are expected to perform at a level consistent with additional effort for which incentive payment is designed to compensate.
7.17	When an incentive employee is required to work on his regular job and there is no incentive standard available, he will be compensated at the rate of ninety-five (95) per cent of his average unit hour.
7.18	When an incentive employee is temporarily assigned to a job and there is work available on his job, he shall be paid the greater of:
a)	His average unit hour at his customary base rate, or
b)	The base rate of the job to which he is temporarily assigned and the unit hour which he develops on such job.
When there is a reduction in production and there i s no work
25
available to him on the job from which he was assigned, and provided he is qualified, he Shall be paid in accordance with (b) of this clause.
7.19	When an incentive employee is assigned to developmental or experimental work, he shall be paid his average unit hour at the base of his regular job for the period of an assignment when he is specifically assigned to perform work of a special nature under the direct supervision of a member of supervision or the Technical staff, whether or not continuously present during the period such experimental work is in progress, for the express purpose of developing or experimenting on new manufacturing processes, as contrasted with routine changes in production methods.
7.20	When an incentive employee is requested to remain in the plant and is idle due to mechanical delays, waiting on stock or orders, he shall be paid an eighty (80) unit hour at his customary base rate. However, when an employee accepts assigned work in place of enforced idleness, he shall be paid ninety-five (95) per cent of his average unit hour at his customary base rate.
In cases of idleness due to reasons other than those listed above, when an employee i s assigned other work, he shall be
paid as follows:
a)	If work is available on his job, he shall he paid in accordance with clause 7.18.
b)	If work is not available on his job, he shall be paid in accordance with this clause.
7.21	If the earnings of an incentive employee are reduced because of abnormal stock conditions, he will be paid for such amount of extra time required for the handling of the abnormal stock as is reasonable under the circumstances at ninety-five (95) per cent of his average unit hour: provided he has exercised an effort satisfactory to supervision under the circumstances. In order to benefit under this clause, the employee must report the stock condition to his supervisor at the time the condition occurs.
7.22	If an employee is assigned to a group operation on a temporary basis and because of this temporary assignment the experienced employees are prevented temporarily from producing normal earnings, the experienced employees shall be guaranteed their average unit hour for such period of time as may reasonably be required for the temporarily assigned employee to attain normal production. The temporarily assigned employee will be paid according to the wage payment clause applicable to his case.
26
7-23 If the circumstances are such that the assignment of an employee temporarily to a group operation should not be reasonable cause for any decrease in the group output, no guarantee shall be extended.
7.24	a) When the productive work of an incentive employee decreases without proper cause to less than only sixty (60) units per hour, the Company may pay only for actual productive work performed upon giving written notice to the employee and a copy to his Union steward.
b)	In any instance where there is an unjustifiable decrease in the performance of an employee working on any of the guarantees set forth in Article VII, such guarantee may be withdrawn upon giving written notice to the employee and a copy to his Union steward.
c)	When a guarantee is removed in accordance with (b) above, and it is not possible to measure the performance of the employee by an incentive standard applicable to the operation which he is performing, he will be paid sixty (60) units per hour.
PAYMENTS APPLYING TO HOURLY-RATED EMPLOYEES
7.25	When an hourly-rated employee is temporarily assigned work other than in his regular job, he shall be paid as follows :
1.	If he is assigned to a job on incentive, he will be
paid the greater of:
a)	His regular job hourly rate, or
b)	The base rats of the job to which he is assigned and the unit hour he produces.
2.	If he is assigned to an hourly-rated job, he will be
paid as follows:
a)	If to a higher hourly-rated job on which he has experience and he produces at a level of performance required of an experienced employee, he will be paid at a rate determined by management which will not be below his regular job hourly rate or greater than the hourly rate of the job assigned.
b)	If to a lower hourly-rated job, he will be paid his regular job hourly rate.
c)	If to a job which has no established rate, he will be paid his regular job hourly rate.
27
PAYMENT APPLYING TO EXPERIENCED INCENTIVE & HOURLY-RATED EMPLOYEES
7.26	When an employee reports for work at his scheduled shift time without being notified to the contrary, or reports for work at a time requested by his foreman and is assigned no work or works for a lesser period than four (4) hours because of some reason within the Company's control, payment shall be made for a minimum of four (4) hours. Incentive employees shall be paid an eighty (80) unit hour at their customary base rate and hourly-rated employees shall be paid their customary hourly rate. It is understood that reporting for work means the employee has punched his clock-card and is in his department ready for work, or personal contact is made with the foreman at his scheduled starting time.
An employee shall be considered to have been properly notified if such notification is made by the .Company no later than one (1) hour before his scheduled starting time. Reporting for work pay will not be paid:
a)	When the opportunity to work temporarily on suitable jobs is refused.
b)	When an employee is absent from work for personal reasons not covered by a leave of absence prior to reporting for work.
c)	Where an employee fails to record with his foreman or personnel office his current address or telephone number, and therefore, the Company is unable to notify him not to report for work.
d)	In cases of stoppage of work caused by labour disturbances directly or indirectly within the plant.
e)	In cases caused by mechanical or electrical breakdowns where such substantially affect operations in a department or plant, catastrophe, fire, or any cause beyond the Company's control.
7.27	Ai employee on the payroll of the Company who is excused by the Company solely because of the death and funeral of a parent, parent-in-law, son, daughter, brother, sister, husband, wife, grandparents, great-grandparents, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, or grandchildren of the employee, or the spouse's grandparents, great-grandparents, brother-in-law and sister-inlaw (the category of relatives herein specified includes legal and blood relationships, half-relatives, and step-relatives and foster parent and foster child) he shall be compensated as follows:
28
a)	Incentive employee at his average earnings.
b)	Hourly-rated employee, at his customary hourly rate,
for time so lost by him from his regular working schedule within the normal work week by reason of such absence, up to three days for each such death and funeral.
When death in the family causes the absence of an employee from work within the normal work week prior to the normal work week in which tho funeral occurs, the intervening Saturday and/or Sunday will be discounted in determining three (3) consecutive days referred to above, unless Saturday and/or Sunday are Scheduled work days.
If, however, the funeral is not attended, he will be paid for lost time on only one of the above mentioned days.
This provision to apply when it is necessary for the employee to make arrangements and/or attend the funeral. If the employee is eligible for any other form of remuneration to which the Company contributes, payment shall not be made under this Section for such day or days.
It is understood that "in-law" relationships will be broken by divorce but not death of the blood relative who established the "in-law" relationship, unless and until the in-law relative or employee remarries.
7.28	An employee scheduled to take an accounting inventory shall be paid as follows:
a)	Incentive employee at his average unit hour and his customary base rate.
b)	Hourly-rated employee at his customary hourly rate.
Seniority employees in the department who are qualified will be offered such work from shifts in the following order:
1st - 7:45 a.m. to 3:45 p.m.
2nd - 3:45 p.m. to 11:45 p.m.
Any other employees required shall be scheduled.
Every effort will be made to give an employee three (3) days notice of requirement before the scheduled day of inventory. No overtime premiums shall be paid for such work except under clause 6.06 or when the employee has worked more than eight (8) hours on the day he worked on inventory.
7.29	An employee who reports for or serves on jury duty or subpoenaed witness for the crown shall be compensated the
29
difference between the amount paid to him for such service as follows:
a) Incentive employee at his average earnings.
b) Hourly-rated employee at his customary rate, for time lost from his scheduled work shift due to such service, provided:
1)	The employee notifies his foreman within twenty-four (24) hours after the receipt of notice of selection.
2)	Furnishes the Company with a written statement signed by the appropriate public official which shall contain the dates, time served, and amount paid.
3)	Employee must serve as a juror or prospective juror four (4) or more hours to bi'^SXsepT'Troa working his daily shift.
Should an employee's scheduled vacation be affected due to his selection for iurv duty^or subpoenaed, witness for the crown, his foreman, upon request will reschedule the employee's vacation.
7.30	1) An employee who is injured or becomes sick in the factory and vrtio is required to obtain treatment at the Health Centre or who /s required by the Company to obtain treatment at other medical locations, shall be paid only for such time lost during his work shift as follows:
(a)	(i) Experienced employees will be paid their average
earnings.
(ii) Learners will be paid their average earnings in accordance with the learning schedule.
(b)	Hourly-rated employee, at his customary hourly rate.
Payment will not be made to an employee receiving such medical treatment outside his regular working hours or on days on which he does not work.
2) Employees who, due to a blood test are removed from their regular job to another job at the request of the Medical Department, and for the purpose of rehahilitation so that they may return to their regular job, shall be compensated for time spent in such rehabilitation as follows:
(a)	(i) Experienced incentive employees at ninety-five
percent (95%) of their average unit hour, but not exceeding a ninety (90) unit hour at the base
30
rate cf their regular job.
(ii) Experienced hourly rated employees at their regular hourly rate.
(b)	(i) Incentive learners at ninety per cent (90%) cf
their average earnings but not exceeding a ninety (90) unit hour.
(ii) Hourly rated learners at the hourly rate of the learning schedule period tc which the learner has progressed.
If after an employee is moved from his regular job, it is subsequently determined that he will not return to hie regular job, payment per section 2) of this clause is cancelled and the employee shall be paid in accordance with the pertinent clause in Article VII.
An employee who is assigned by the Company during his working hours to obtain a blood or audiogram test, or other job-related medical examinations, shall be paid the rate he would normally be paid but for such assignment, and for the time so lost from his normal work shift.
When an employee is assigned at times other than above, he shall be paid for such time by a payment cf one (1) hour at h i s average earnings (excluding overtime).
WAGE PAYMENTS FOR LEARNERS
7.31	Except as otherwise provided in clauses 7,32,	7.33,
7.34, 7.35, 7.36 and 7.37, when an employee is classified as a learner, all wage payments for which he qualifies under this Agreement will be made at the rates provided in the learner's schedule for the job he is learning.
7.32	When a learner's actual earnings on an incentive job exceed the appropriate learner's schedule payment, he will be paid his actual earnings.
7.33	When an employee is classified as a learner because he is transferred from his former job when no work is available, to equalize hours, to fulfill seniority requirements, or at his own option, he will if he has three (3) months or more of credited service be paid the following payments instead of the learner's schedule payments:
(a)	If on an incentive job, he will be paid the base rate of the job.
(b)	If on an hourly-rated job, he will be paid according to the second period of the learner's schedule.
31
7.34	When an employee is classified as a learner because he is transferred at management's request and there is work remaining available on the job from which he transfers, he shall be paid as follows:
(a)	If he is transferred to a job on incentive, he shall be paid the base rate of the job to which he is transferred, and the unit hour he produces except that he shall be guaranteed his former regular job base rate at his average unit hour or his former regular job hourly rate for a period not to exceed the learning period of the job to which he is transferred.
(b)	If he is transferred to a higher hourly-rated job, he shall be paid in accordance with the learning schedule of that job, but shall be guaranteed his former regular job base rate at his average unit hour or hi8 former regular job hourly rate for a period not to exceed the learning period of the job to which he is transferred.
7.35	A learner who reports for or serves on jury duty or subpoenaed witness for the crown shall be compensated for the time lost from his scheduled work shift for such service, the difference between the amount paid to him for such service and the payment he would have received as a learner had he worked such time, provided:
(a)	The employee notifies his foreman within twenty-four (24) hours after the receipt of notice of selection.
(b)	Furnishes the Company with a written statement signed by the appropriate public official which shall contain the dates, time served, and the amount paid.
(c)	Employee	must serve	as	a juror or prospective juror
four (4)	or more hours	to be exempt from working his
daily shift.
Should an employee's scheduled vacation be affected due to his selection for jury duty or subpoenaed witness for the crown, his foreman, upon request, will reschedule the employee's vacation.
7.36	When a learner is temporarily assigned work other than which he is learning, he shall be paid a8 follows:
a)	If he is	assigned to	an	incentive job on which he has
qualified experience	and	he produces a level of perfor-
mance required of an experienced employee, he shall be paid the average paid unit hour of the other employees on the job at the base rate of the job, or the unit hour he develops at the base rate of the job, whichever is higher. If he lacks experience on the incentive job,
32
he shall be paid the learning schedule guarantee of the job from which he is temporarily assigned or the base rate of the job to which he is assigned, whichever is higher.
b)	If he is assigned to an hourly-rated job on which he has qualified experience and he produces a level of performance required of an experienced employee, he shall be paid the hourly rate of the job. If he lacks experience on the hourly-rated job, to which he is assigned, he shall be paid the learning schedule guarantee of the job from which he is assigned, or the base rate for the hourly-rated job, whichever is higher.
7.37	When a learner is transferred during his learning period to another job, he shall be paid as follows:
a)	If in the first or second period of his learning schedule, he will enter the first period of the learning schedule of the job to which he is transferred.
b)	If in the third or subsequent periods of his learning schedule, he will enter the next preceding period of the learning schedule from which he was transferred.
PAYMENTS APPLYING TO LEARNERS, SPECIAL TEACHERS,
AND EXPERIENCED EMPLOYEES WHEN LEARNERS ARE EMPLOYED IN SINGLE OR GROUP OPERATIONS
7.38	When learners are employed in single or group operations, payments shall conform to the policy relative to the payment of learners, special teachers, and experienced employees in groups which is as follows:
1.	To calculate the total group earned or paid units, the following procedure will be used:
a)	To calculate total earned units with no allowance schedule :
Total production	times the	incentive	standard
equals the total earned units.
b)	To	calculate total	pay units	with an	allowance
schedule:
Total production	times the	incentive	standard
equals the total earned units.
Total earned units divided by the non-teaching experienced hours equals the earned unit hours.
33
The earned unit hour modified by the allowance schedule equals the paid unit hour.
The paid unit hour times the non-teaching experienced hour equals the total group paid units.
c)	To calculate the total pay units on operations with a variable ,capacity attainment schedule:
i)	Total units of production multiplied by allowed minutes per unit of production equals total allowed minutes.
ii)	Total allowed minutes divided by total chargeable minutes equals per cent of capacity attainment.
iii)	Apply variable capacity attainment schedule to per cent of capacity attainment to determine pay unit hour.
iv)	Pay unit hour multiplied by total chargeable hours equals total pay units.
2.	Allowance schedules will not apply to learners except on those days during the learning period when a learner on an incentive schedule earns in excess of a sixty
(60) unit hour or the unit maximum, whichever is applicable. Under this circumstance, the process allowance schedule indicated on the bulletin sheet for the operation will be applied.
3.	The payment of learners, special teachers, and experienced employees working on single or group operations will comply with the following procedures as they apply.
a) Learner working on an individual operation on which a special teacher has been designated.
i)	Production and hours shall be reported on a group time sheet.
ii)	The special teacher shall be guaranteed his average unit hour at his customary base rate.
iii)	The total earned or paid units shall be credited to the special teacher up to his average unit hour at his customary base rate.
iv)	Any remaining unite shall be credited to the learner up to the special teacher's average unit hour.
34
v)	All remaining units shall be distributed equally among the learner and the special teacher.
b)	Two-man group operation where a learner or learners are working with one experienced employee.
i)	A group time sheet shall be used to report hours and production.
ii)	The experienced employee shall be designated as the special teacher and shall be paid his average unit hour at his customary base rate.
iii)	The experienced employee shall be credited with the total earned or paid units up to his average unit hour at his customary base rate.
iv)	Any remaining units shall be credited to the learner or learners up to the unit hour of the experienced employee.
v)	All remaining units shall be distributed equally among learner or learners and the experienced employee.
vi)	In this group only, the special teacher's hours will be considered as the non-teaching experienced hours for determining the earned unit hour for process allowance application.
c)	Two-man group operation where a learner or learners are working with two experienced employees.
i)	The production and hours shall be reported on a group time sheet.
ii)	One of the experienced employees shall be designated as a special teacher and shall be paid his average unit hour at his customary base rate.
iii)	The total earned or paid units shall be credited to the non-teaching experienced employee up to his average unit hour at his customary base rate.
iv)	Any remaining units shall be credited to the special teacher up to his average unit hour at his customary base rate.
v)	Any remaining units shall be credited to the learner or learners up to the lowest average unit hour of the experienced employees.
35
vi)	All remaining units shall be distributed equally among the experienced employee and the learner or learners.
d)	A learner or learners working with experienced employees on group operations normally requiring three or more employees.
i)	The production and hours shall be reported on a group time sheet.
ii)	One experienced employee shall be designated as special teacher and shall be guaranteed his average unit hour at his customary base rate.
iii)	The total earned or paid units' shall be credited to the non-teaching, experienced employees up to their average unit hour at their customary base rate.
iv)	Any remaining units shall be credited to the special teacher up to his average unit hour at his customary base rate.
v)	Any remaining units shall be credited to the learner or learners up to the lowest average unit hour of the experienced employee.
vi)	All remaining units shall be distributed equally among the learner or learners and experienced employees.
7.39	Learning schedules as expressed in this Article shall mean where such are is effect.
7.40	At employee who is assigned to an excessively dirty job. will be permitted time off for wash-up. it is undergo/ stood that the Company will exercise the primary control of
/ \the ' time and occurrence of this payment.
7.41	No full-time or part-time supervisor or salaried
V employee shall normally perform work that would be done by employees within the bargaining unit.
8.01	In the event of any inconsistency between the provisions of this Agreement and "The Re-instatement in Civil
ARTICLE VIII
SENIORITY
36
Employment Act, 1942" or any statute or order-in-council passed or issued in amendment or substitution thereof, the provisions of said Act shall to the extent of such inconsistency prevail.
8.02	Each employee in order to benefit by the seniority provisions of this Agreement, must keep the Company informed of his current address and telephone number at all times by notifying the Company as follows:
a)	An employee on the active payroll will notify his foreman by signing the form available.
b)	Former employees who are subject to recall will notify the Personnel Office.
c)	Failure to comply with the foregoing could mean a loss of overtime offering, Supplementary Unemployment Benefits, call-in pay or transfer consideration, or a possible delay in recall.
8.03	The Company will maintain a service list in each department, in view of all employees, showing the Company service date and the department service date of each member of the department.
8.04	An employee's hiring date shall be the date of the employee's first working day for the Company, but same shall be changed when required by other clauses in this Agreement.
8.05 An employee shall not acquire seniority privileges until he completes three (3) months service with the Company, at which time his hiring date shall be deemed to be his Company service date and such service shall be deemed to be "credited service". An employee with three (3) or more months continuous Company service shall enjoy back service credit as set forth in Clause 8.16. The three (3) months referred to in this clause shall be deemed the probationary period for all employees.
8.06	A part-time employee shall not acquire or accumulate credited service for seniority purposes while employed as
such. A part-time employee is one that by choice is not prepared to work, or does not work the scheduled hours of his shift or occupation. A part-time employee shall not by custom or practice, work daily hours that shall exceed five (5) hours per day while employed as such.
When a full-time employee changes his status to a part-time employee, he shall receive credit for service up to the date of change. When such employee returns to full-time employment, he shall receive credit only for the time while employed as a full-time employee.
37
An employee accepting part-time employment in place of lay-off shall be considered as a laid off employee in determination of credited services while employed as such.
An employee who is required to temporarily work less than normal hours due to his personal health, shall be considered a full-time employee for the purpose of accumulating credited service only during such rehabilitation period.
8.07	An employee shall have job seniority when he completes three (3) months of continuous credited service on the jab on which he is hired or to which he is transferred, at which time his credited service shall be deemed to be his job seniority. An employee who is transferred to replace an employee on leave of absence under Clause 10.06 shall be considered an employee on loan for such period.
8.08	When an employee has job seniority and is transferred he shall continue to accumulate job seniority on such job until he acquires job seniority on the job to which he is transferred.
8.09	Notwithstanding Clause 8.07 and 8.08, an employee who has job seniority and who is transferred in accordance with Clause 8.11 and the job on which he had job seniority becomes open within two years from the date of his transfer from such job shall return to his job provided no employee has prior rights under Clause 8.13. The employee who thus returns shall be credited with his job seniority on such job as of his date of return. This Clause shall not apply where an employee is transferred under 8.11 and exercises job progression or transfers under 8,19 within the two (2) years herein specified.
8.10 An employee shall have residence rights when he completes three (3) months of continuous credited service in the department in which he is hired or to which he is transferred.
8.11	When it becomes necessary to lay-off employees, in a job classification, employees who have no seniority privileges will be laid off first. If after the layoff of such
1 employees a further layoff is necessary, then employees with ^seniority privileges will be laid off in accordance with their senioritcras follows:
For the purpose of layoff, there are two (2) types of jobs:
(1)	Classified
(2)	General
which are listed under a supplemental agreement. In accordance with the procedures herewith set forth, an employee
38
who is subject to layoff from his job will displace the employee with the least amount of credited service among those employees who have less credited service.
An employee must have "qualified experience" on a classified job in order to exercise any bumpina~riqhts on such job. "Qualified experience'' shall mean that the employee has worked on the job or similar jobs as defined in this Clause, and providing that his productivity is equivalent to that of an average employee on such job or jobs.
An employee who is subject to layoff in a group operation and who has qualified experience on more than one job in such group, and provided he has job seniority on a job within the group, shall first displace an employee in the group in the reverse order of "job progression" (which are listed under a supplemental agreement) for such group but shall not displace an employee with more credited service. Failing placement in the group, he shall follow the procedure.
Application of the procedures laid down in Clause 6.03 of Article VI are to be made in conjunction with lay-offs under Article VIII of this Agreement.
TEE PROCEDURE
A An employee who was not transferred into the department and who has three or more months of credited service shall, in the event of layoff, displace employees with less credited service in the following order:
1)	On Classified jobs in the department
2)	On general jobs in the department.
EXCEPTION: An employee who has obtained qualified experience in other departments in the division through other transfers shall be placed under "B" in place of this section ’!A".
B Al employee who has been transferred into a department and has acquired job seniority in said department, shall in the event of layoff, displace employees with less credited service in the following order:
1)	On classified jobs in the department
2)	On general jobs in the department
3)	On classified jobs in the division
C An employee who has been transferred into a department
39
and has acquired residence rights but not job seniority in said department and has job seniority in some other department, shall in the event of a layoff displace employees with less credited service in the following order:
1)	On classified jobs in his resident department.
2)	On the classified job on which he has acquired job seniority.
3)	On classified jobs in the department in which he has acquired job seniority.
4)	On classified jobs in the division in which he has acquired job seniority.
5)	On general jobs in the department in which he has acquired job seniority.
D An employee who has been transferred into a department and has acquired residence rights but not job seniority in said department and has job seniority in some other department, but the job on which he has job seniority bas been eliminated shall in the event of layoff, displace employees with less credited service in the following order:
1)	On classified jobs in his resident department.
2)	On classified jobs in his resident division.
3)	On general jobs in his resident department.
E An employee who has been transferred into a department but has not acquired resident rights in said department and has job seniority in some other department shall in the event of layoff, displace employees with less credited service in the following order:
1)	On the classified job on which he has acquired job seniority.
2)	On classified jobs in the department in which he has acquired job seniority,
3)	On classified jobs in the division in which he has acquired job seniority.
4)	On general jobs in the department in which he has acquired job seniority.
F An employee who has been transferred into a department but has not acquired resident rights in said department
40
and has job seniority in some other department but:
a)	The job on which he has job seniority has been eliminated, shall, in the event of layoff, displace employees with less credited service in the following order:
1)	On classified jobs in the department in which he had job seniority.
2)	On classified jobs in the division in which he had acquired job seniority.
3)	On general jobs in the department in which he had acquired job seniority.
b)	The department in which he had acquired job seniority has been eliminated, shall in the event of layoff, displace employees with less credited service in the following order:
1)	On classified jobs in the division in which he had acquired job seniority.
2)	On general jobs in the department in which he had the most service in the division in which he had acquired seniority.
G An employee who has been transferred into a department but has not acquired residence rights in said department and who has residence rights but not job seniority in some other department shall, in the event of layoff, displace employees with less credited service in the following order:
1)	On classified jobs in the department in which he has acquired residence rights.
2)	On classified jobs in the division in which he has acquired residence rights.
3)	On general jobs in the department in which he has acquired residence rights.
H An employee who has three or more months of credited service and who has been transferred into a department but has acquired no residence rights in any department, shall in the event of layoff, displace employees with less credited service in the following order:
1) On classified jobs in the department from which he was last transferred.
41
2)	On classified jobs in the division from which he was last transferred.
3)	On general jobs in the department from which he was last transferred.
I Ai employee who has three or more months of credited service and who has been transferred into a department but has acquired no residence rights in any department, and the department from which he was last transferred has been eliminated, shall in the event cf layoff, displace employees with less credited service in the following order:
1)	On classified jobs in the division from which he was last transferred.
2)	On general jobs in the department in which he has the most service in the division from which he was last transferred.
J When an employee with two (2) or more years of credited service has exhausted his rights under the foregoing procedures in this clause and would otherwise be laid off, he shall displace the employee with the least credited service in the following order, provided he has more credited service and is capable and/or qualified of performing the job of such lesser credited service employee:
1)	On classified jobs in the factory on which he has qualified experience.
2)	On general jobs in the factory.
EXCEPTION: Employees on mill operations in Department 4120, 4130 and 4125 shall first displace employees on such mills before application of J; 1 and 2.
K Notwithstanding the foregoing, the parties may by mutual agreement permit an employee who would displace an employee with the least amount of credited service on a general job, to displace any employee with less credited service than he has on a general job.
For the purpose of this clause, departments are grouped in the following divisions:
42
I Processing Processing
Processing (Calender) Receiving and Raw Stores Cement House
Physical Testing Laboratory
Department
II Tire Preparation Tire Building
4135
4150
III Tire Curing
Final Finish Water Bag Quality Assurance
IV Maintenance
Power House Janitors
V
Warehouse
4119
8.12	The Department Manager shall review the list of layoffs of seniority and employees with the department steward and the President or Vice-president of the Union in order to avoid any error.
8.13	An employee on layoff who has recall rights shall be
recalled to job vacancies by the application of the__EfixexJML.
procedure of, layoff as set forth in Clause 8.11. An employee wfio Tias been transferred under Clause 8.11, and is not located on the job on which he has job seniority at the time of a vacancy occurring on a job on which he has qualified experience, shall be returned to such vacancy i n line with his credited service before any move under job progression or application under Clause 8.19 is honoured.
When a job vacancy occurs on a general job in the plant, the employee on layoff from the plant, with the most credited service among those that have one (1) or more years of credited service, shall be recalled to such a vacancy before an application for transfer under Clause 8.19 is honoured.
8.14	Before hiring a new employee, the Company will give preference to qualified employees who are on lay-off and who have recall rights.
8.15	An employee who has three or more months of Company service at time of layoff and who is rehired to a job other than the job from which he was laid off, shall be considered a transferred employee.
8.16	In no case of termination of employment, other than
43
surplus help lay off, will back service be credited on rehire. Ai employee who bas less than three (3) months continuous company service at date of layoff will not be credited with back service on rehire. An employee who has three (3) months continuous company service but less than two (2) years' credited service at date cf lay-off, will on rehire be credited with time spent on layoff provided he is rehired within twelve (12) months of date of layoff.
An employee with two (2) or more years of credited service at date of layoff and who is not rehired within twelve (12) months of layoff but who is rehired within the period of his recall rights hereunder specified, shall upon rehire be credited only with the credited service he would have at the end of the twelfth (12th) month on layoff.
A An employee who has three (3) or more months but less than two (2) years of credited service at date of layoff shall have recall rights for twelve (12) months from date of layoff.
B An employee who has two (2) or more but less than five (5) years of credited service at date of layoff shall have recall rights for twenty-four (24) months from the date of his layoff.
C An employee who has five (5) or more years of credited service at date of layoff shall have recall rights for five (5) years from the date of his layoff.
D An employee to retain his recall rights must register at the Personnel Office in person or by registered letter, indicating whether or not he wishes to retain his recall rights, during the first thirteenth (13th) month on layoff and thereafter during the thirty (30) days following each annual anniversary date from his layoff.
E Employees who have seniority privileges shall at the time of layoff be informed by the Personnel Department of their recall rights. Subject to the above, time spent on layoff shall on rehire be credited to the job on which the employee worked immediately prior to layoff provided he is rehired to the same job.
F In the event he is not rehired to the job on which he worked immediately prior to layoff, time spent on layoff
shall, on rehire, be credited:
1)	If he has job seniority to such job.
2)	If he has no job seniority to the job on which he first accumulates job seniority.
LA
G An employee who is rehired during the term of this Agreement and who provides satisfactory proof that he has an improper service date shall have same rectified.
8.17	An employee notified of recall must present himself for work within two (2) working days, excluding Saturday and Sunday, from the date the registered letter sent by the Company is delivered to his last recorded address. However, if an employee who has gained employment elsewhere during layoff is recalled, he shall report within seven (7) working days. Failing to do so shall cancel all back service. However, should he present himself within thirty (30) days of the date of such registered letter with a reasonable excuse for failure to present himself within the above two (2) or seven (7) working days, his credited service shall be kept intact, and he shall be notified of the next vacancy to which he is entitled under clause 8.13. This thirty (30) day extension is limited to the first notification. Date of registered letter above is the date such letter is delivered to the employee's last recorded address.
8.18	Back service credit of an employee shall be terminated when he refuses a job to which he is entitled on recall under clause 8.13.
8.19	When an employee with one (1) year of Gompany service wishes to transfer from his job to a similar job or to another job within the bargaining unit, he shall make a written application for such job to his department manager.
When an employee resigns, is discharged, or an opening occurs due to transfer, the original vacancy only will be posted jin the department in which such vacancy occurs and in £Ke~main entrance for forty-eight (48) hours from the end of the shift such notification is given (exclusive of Saturday, Sunday or holiday) before being filled. After this forty-eight (48) hour period, the job will be closed off. Any transfers received after the aforementioned period of time will not be honoured. The application must contain the date and time of the day it is received by the foreman.	The
department manager will, within one working day, forward the application to the Personnel Department.
An employee shall not have more than one such application pending, excepting an application to the Skilled Trades Training Program.
In the event of a permanent vacancy which:
(a)	Is not filled by job progression, where such is in effect,
(b)	No employee has recall rights under clause 8.13,
45
(c)	No employee has replacement rights under clause 8.22
the employee with the most credited service on the list of applicants who is capable of performing the job will be offered the job.
An employee whose transfer has been honoured may be held on the job from which he has made transfer for a period of time equal to the learning schedule c£ such job but not exceeding two (2) months from the date on which the transfer was honoured. A second transfer for the same employee within a six (6) month period may at management's discretion be delayed for a period not to exceed six (6) months from the date of original transfer. If the employee refused this offer, his application for the job shall be cancelled and be rill be ineligible for transfer conrideration for six (6) months from date cf such refusal.
Exception For Maintenance Division:
An employee who desires to be transferred to a vacancy in a classified job under this clause, must as well as being capable, also have qualified experience to have his application considered. "Qualified experience" in this instance will also include such experience acquired in other than the bargaining unit. Before hiring a new employee in these classifications, the Company shall give consideration to applications on file from employees in the bargaining unit.
8.20	Employees may be loaned from one job to another for a period not to exceed four (4) consecutive weeks: such time may be extended by mutual agreement. If the employee is transferred to such job while on loan, his transfer date shall be that of the first day of loan. Employees who are placed on jobs €or rehabilitation purposes after outside injuries or who replace loaned employees, shall be classified as loaned employees. The steward of the department and the employee who is on a loan basis shall be notified in
writing by the department manager giving the reason for such.
8.21	When an operation or group of operations is transferred to another department and the employee is transferred with the operation or equipment, time spent on the job and in the department from which transfer occurs shall be deemed to be time spent in the department to which he is transferred. If removed from the operation or equipment before he establishes either job seniority or residence rights, he shall have the status of a regular transferred employee as of the date of transfer into the new department.
8.22	Where a department or an operation within a department is permanently discontinued, the employee who is not placed
46
under Clause 8.11 shall be transferred on the basis of his credited service to a vacancy which is not filled by job progression where such is in effect and for which no one has recall rights under clause 8.13.
If there is no vacancy, he may displace the employee with the least credited service in the same division on work for which he is qualified and capable of performing, providing he has more credited service than such employee.
An employee who is transferred because of reclassification, shall have his service on the job to which he is transferred as of date of transfer.
Where an operation, group of operations or department has been classified as discontinued and same is subsequently reinstated, employees who have been transferred from such shall be given the opportunity of returning on the basis of seniority provided less than two (2) years has elapsed from date of such transfer.
8.23	Employees may be returned from supervisory or salaried employment to the bargaining unit at the discretion of the company under the following conditions:
1)	Employees who have transferred from the bargaining unit to supervisory or salaried employment must be resident within the South plant in order to be eligible to return to the bargaining unit.
2)	Employees who have transferred from the bargaining unit to a supervisory or salaried position and who have:
(a)	up to 12 months service in a salaried position shall return to the job where they had job seniority at the time of their transfer but shall not displace employees who have more credited service. If such job has been eliminated they shall be placed in accordance with Clause 8.11.
(b)	greater than 12 months service up to 24 months service in a salaried position shall return to the lowest seniority job, first, in the department from which they came and second, in the plant, but shall not displace employees who have more credited service.
(c)	greater than twenty-four (24) months will no longer be eligible to return to the bargaining unit.
Time spent on supervisory or salaried employment shall be credited in (a) above to the department and job where they
47
held job seniority at time of transfer and in (b) above to the department and job on which they are placed.
If placed under Clause 8.11, they will be immediately credited with their prior credited service in the bargaining unit and upon completion of three (3) months service in accordance with Clause 8.07, will be further credited with the service attained on supervisory or salaried employment.
Supervisory or salaried employees returned to the bargaining unit per the above will not result in the layoff of a bargaining unit employee.
8.24	Operations of the plant are conducted on a rotating shift basis, therefore, there shall be no shift preference. Permanent shifts may be assigned only to employees having ten or more years of credited service, and then only if all employees on the shifts affected agree to the assignment, but such will not be implemented unless mutually agreed to by the Company and the Union.
8.25	Notwithstanding the provisions of this Article, management may place employees under the following conditions :
1)	Where two (2) or more employees have identical credited service and are entitled to the same job.
2)	Where an employee is fully qualified to perform an operation for which no other employee can qualify without long training.
3)	Where the medical department for the purpose of rehabilitating a factory-injured employee requires that he be kept at work, or an employee as a result of a factory injury has a permanent partial disability but performs the work to which he has been assigned in a manner satisfactory to management. However, in either case, the injured employee shall not displace employees having more credited service. Where an employee who has a temporary disability due to a factory injury is temporarily placed on a job other than his job classification, such time shall be credited to his regular job held prior to such injury.
4)	Where an employee is on leave of absence due to illness or injury, and returns to work, he shall be reinstated
to his former job on the basis of seniority, provided
he is capable.
5)	Where an employee who bas returned from military service requires special handling for rehabilitation; however, such employee shall not displace an employee
48
having more credited service.
6)	Where an employee cannot perform satisfactory work due to age, health, or other physical conditions, such employee shall be transferred to other work which is more suitable, if such work is available. However, the employee so transferred shall not displace an employee who has more credited service.
8.26	When it becomes necessary to lay off an employee, he shall be notified wherever possible, seven (7) calendar days in advance of layoff. An employee desiring to leave the employ of the Company shall give seven (7) calendar days notice if at all possible.
8.27	Qualifications as referred to in Article VII and Article VIII of this agreement shall be determined by the Company on the basis of such items as: experience, physical and mental capability, skill, adaptability, knowledge, responsibility, efficiency, attitude and integrity, subject to the grievance procedure.
8.28	The Company agrees to furnish the President of Local #677 with three (3) copies of a plant wide seniority list and a master list annually and to supply changes, if any, each six (6) months.
8.29	The Company has granted a "Skilled Trades Training Program" which is listed under a Supplemental Agreement.
ARTICLE IX PLANT MANAGEMENT
9.01	The Union recognizes that the operating of the plant and the full direction of the working forces is the exclusive function and responsibility of the Company. Without restricting the generality of the foregoing:
a)	It is the exclusive function of the Company to manage the industrial enterprise in which it is engaged, and to determine the number and location of plants, the products to be manufactured, the methods of manufacturing, schedules of production, kinds and locations of machines, tools to be used, processes of manufacturing and assembling, the engineering and designs of its products and the control of materials and parts to be incorporated in the products produced.
b)	It is the exclusive function of management to maintain order, discipline, and efficiency and to hire, discharge, transfer, promote, demote, or discipline employees and to determine and establish standards of
49
performance for all machines, employees, and operations.
9.02	Each employee shall give his undivided attention to the work assigned to him by the Company throughout his work shift.
9.03	A record card covering each year of an employee's service is maintained for the purpose of recording his attendance, performance, and miscellaneous pertinent facts concerning his work record. No derogatory notation may be placed on his card without first notifying the employee concerned.
9.04	Reprimand and derogatory notations placed on an employee's card by his supervisor are to be signed by the employee concerned. If the employee refuses to sign such notation, the supervisor will within five (5) calendar days of such refusal, give the employee a written copy of the notation. The problem can then be negotiated, provided a written grievance is received within five (5) calendar days from the date of the written copy of the notation, If no grievance is received within the time limits as herein expressed, .the notation will remain on the employee's record card as accepted. If the supervisor fails to give the employee a written copy of the notation within the time limits as herein expressed, the notation will be removed from the employee's record card.
Reprimands for offences such as illegal strike, slowdown, work stoppage, refusal to follow reasonable instructions from a foreman and/or to respect foreman's authority, ~ fighting with other employees, if not repeated within TWOik (2) years will be disregarded in the administration of discipline. All other offences exclusive of those listed above will be disregarded if not repeated within ONE (1) year.
9.05	Where an employee is removed from the rolls of the Company, he will be given an opportunity to review his record card with the Personnel Department. In the case of a discharge, the employee, if he so desires, may be accompanied by his steward or designated Union representative.
9.06	Warnings, reprimands, suspensions, or discharges may follow conditions of which typical examples are:
a)	Stealing Company property or that of fellow workers.
b)	Reporting production falsely or punching other than employee's own card.
c)
50
Sabotage.
d)	Violation of safety rules.
e)	Refusal to follow reasonable instructions from a foreman and/or to respect foreman's authority.
f)	Refusal to follow negotiation procedure as outlined in this Agreement, Article V.
g)	Reporting for work intoxicated.
h)	Disorderly or immoral conduct on Company property.
i)	Obtaining employment on the basis of false information as to age or identity.
j)	Continual lateness.
k)	Avoidable waste of materials.
l)	Defective workmanship.
m)	Low production.
n)	Multiple reprimands.
o)	Endangering his life or that of fellow employees.
p)	Smoking in areas and at times in which smoking is forbidden.
9.07	Nothing contained in this Article shall be construed as restricting the rights of the Union under any other provisions of this Agreement.
9.08	Notices that the Union desires to have posted on the Company's notice boards shall be submitted to the Director of Operations or Manager Human Resources for approval. After agreement as to posting, the Company will post the notices on the bulletin boards customarily provided for all notices to employees.
9.09	The Company agrees to provide adequate relief for normal personal needs when and where necessary in any department where the work requires continuous operation.
9.10	a) A Safety Committee shall be appointed consisting of not more than three (3) men representing the Company and not more than three (3) representing the Union. In addition, to the three (3) men above representing the Company, the Company shall appoint one (1) man to act as chairman.
b)	The function of the Safety Committee shall be to facilitate the promotion of sanitation and safety in the
51
plant. The Safety Committee shall meet as often as it deems necessary but not less than once per month for the purpose of discussing sapitation and safety problems and will tour the plant monthly to verify that adopted sanitation and safety recommendations have been complied with. Union members of the Safety Committee will be paid for such meetings and plant tours in accordance with CE® provisions of Article V, Clause 5.15 of the present Agreement.
c)	Due consideration will be given to recommendations of the Safety Committee. Any questions concerning the adoption of recommendations cf the Safety Committee may be referred to the grievance procedure at Step #3. Members of the Safety Committee will be permitted to attend grievance meetings regarding such problems.
d)	Differences not resolved within the Committee regarding sanitation and safety problems may be referred to the grievance procedure at Step #3 for adjustment. Members of the Safety Committee will be permitted to attend grievance meetings regarding such problems.
e)	Members of the Safety Committee shall be permitted to enter the plant when of€ shift for the purpose of iaseatigaiing sanitation and safety matters in accordance with Article V, Clause 5.11, subsection (b) of the present Agreement.
f)	Notice of the occurrence of an accident in the plant will be furnished to the Safety Committee representative.
g)	If a problem arises requiring a member of the Safety Committee to contact employees during hie working hours, such contact shall be arranged by such member through either his immediate foreman or the department manager concerned.
.ARTICLE X
ATTENDANCE REGULATIONS
10.01	Regular attendance is expected of every employee.
10.02	An employee who expects to be late or absent must report the reason to the Company at least one (1) hour, if possible, prior to starting time of his shift. If he is unable to contact the Company due to not having reasonable access to a phone and he will only be off one (1) shift, he must personally report his absence and the reason to his foreman during his following shift. If he expects to be absent more than one (1) shift, he must notify the Company: at the earliest possible time. In the case of illness of an employee he must make every reasonable effort to notify the Company as soon as possible.
52
10.03	An employee may be reprimanded, suspended, or removed from the rolls at the Company's option as resigned where:
a) He is absent three (3) consecutive days for reasons other than illness or injury, or seven (7) days in the case of illness or injury, and has not obtained an approved leave cf absence or an extension of same.
b)	Without condoning absenteeism or no report, he is absent on more than one occasion in thirty-one (31) consecutive calendar days and has not obtained an approved leave of absence.
c) He is absent three (3) consecutive days after being approved for work with a definite time to start work.
10.04	Department manager may grant a leave cf absence, except in cases of illness or injury, up to fifteen (15) days. Leave of over fifteen (15) days but not in excess of ninety (90) days are arranged through the Personnel Department by the foreman. An employee desiring a leave of absence of either more or less than fifteen (15) days duration mist make his request in writing to his foreman. The foreman will inform the employee as promptly as possible regarding his written request. Before an employee can take a leave of absence, he must have a written approval of such leave.
10.05	Leaves of absence may be granted for reasons other than illness or injury upon application of the employee and approval of the Company. Such leaves shall not exceed the
following:
Credited Service	Duration
a)	Less than 2 years	15 days
b)	2 years but less than 5 years	2 months
c)	5 years or more	3 months
Provided, however, that where leave of absence is granted to an employee in (a) above because of illneas-jar death in the immediate family, such leave shall be extended to cover travelling time. If the employee, while on leave of absence, takes employment, his leave will be cancelled and he will be considered as resigned.
10.05	Leave of absence shall be granted for illness or injury of the employee provided he makes written application to his foreman for same. Where the illness or injury prevents the employee from making such application, the foreman shall make same on his behalf and if granted, a written leave will be given to the employee. The duration of such leave of absence shall be dependent on the nature of the illness or injury, the medical aspects of the case, and the
53
effort the employee is making to restore himself to normal health, but shall not, except as hereinafter provided, exceed the following:
Credited Service	Duration
a)	Less than 1 year
b)	1 year but less than 2 years
c)	2 years but less than 5 years
d)	5 years but less than 10 years
e)	10 years and over
1 calendar week for each month of credited service 6 months 12 months 24 months 36 months
Provided, however, the Company in consultation with its medical department will exercise primary control as to how long beyond the periods specified in (a) to (e) the sick case is carried.
EXCEPTION:	For W.C.B. cases, the maximum allowable leave of
absence for seniority employees will be forty-eight (48) months.
10.07	Employees who are members of the "Reserve Force" may be granted, upon request, a leave of absence without pay, not exceeding two (2) weeks, to attend summer camp training. The employee must, upon request of the Company, produce written proof of service.
10.08	Ai employee who is a properly designated representative of the Local Union upon request, to his foreman shall be permitted time off without pay for the investigating or handling of grievances, attending to Local-Union huainasS/M^ or a convention, but in the latter instance, he shall be given a written leave of absence.
An employee who is elected or appointed to a municipal office or committee in the Cities of Kitchener, Waterloo, or Regional Municipality of Waterloo, shall be permitted time r off without pay-tn attend conventions or meetings pertaining \ to such office, provided the time off does not exceed eight (8) normal working days (8 x 8 =	64 hours maximum) per
month. Time off cannot be accumulated from one month to another. The alternative to the above is a request for leave of absence without benefits or accumulation of service for the term of office.
An employee who is elected or appointed to serve as a representative of his Local Union, the U.R.C.L. & P.V.A., Canadian Labour Congress, or Ontario Federation of tabour, shall upon written request, be granted a leave of absence without pay up to a period of one (1) year. Ai extension of such leave shall be granted on a yearly basis upon written
54
application. In either case, the Union will give consideration to factory production requirements.
10.09	An employee granted a leave cf absence for a period in excess of fifteen (15) days must, prior to resuming work:
1)	Report in person to the Personnel Department not later than the last normal work day of his leave.
2)	If required by the Company, pass the Medical Department's examination. This examination shall be for the purpose of determining whether or not the employee has sufficiently recovered from the illness or injury to resume work and to prevent any employee from resuming work who had, while on leave of absence, contracted an infectious or contagious disease, or who has incurred a disability which, in the opinion of the Medical Department, precludes resumption of employment without endangering the health or safety of the employee or his fellow employees. If an employee is thus prevented from resuming work, he shall be given such further leave of absence as may be required to remedy the condition.
10.10	Leave of absence shall apply only to an employee who is actively employed by the Company, is on an approved leave of absence, or is on vacation.
10.11	A female employee who becomes pregnant, (verified by medical certification giving estimated date of delivery) shall not work later than such time as the duties of her job cannot reasonably be performed by a pregnant woman or the performance of her work is materially affected by the pregnancy.
Upon written notice of the day she intends to commence her leave of absence she shall be granted a leave cf absence of no less than seventeen (17) weeks (ten (10) weeks prior to the week in which her SSnTinenent is expected and continuing until six (6) weeks after the week in which confinement occurs), but not more than four (4) months after cessation of pregnancy.
The employee who intends to resume her employment after her leave of absence must so advise the Company. Prior to return from leave of absence, the employee shall secure approval of the Company doctor.
An employee may shorten the six (6) weeks post-natal leave by giving the Company one (1) week's notice of her intention and providing a medical certificate stating she is able to resume work. If the post-natal portion of her leave exceeds six (6) weeks, the employee can shorten her leave of absence with one week's notice to the Company.
55
ARTICLE XI
VACATIONS
11.01	Employees who have one or more years of credited service as of July 1st of the current year shall be granted a vacation, the duration of which shall be based upon credited service, and the payment for which shall be a percentage of the employee's total earnings for the previous calendar year.
Credited Service
Group A - 25 years or more
Group B - 20 years but less than 25 years
Group C - 12 years but less than 20
years
Group D - 5 years but less than 12 years
Group E - 1 year but less than 5 years
11.02	Vacation payment to an employee in Group E hired after January 1st of the previous calendar year shall be based upon his total earnings for the period July 1st of the previous year to and including June 30th of the current year.
11.03 Ai employee with less than one year of credited service as of July 1st of the current year will be granted a vacation payment of 4% cf his earnings up to and including June 3 0th of the current year. Such payment shall be made between July 1st and December 15th of the current year. Where the Company follows its normal practice of closing down for vacation and provided the employee is not scheduled to work during such shutdown, he shall be paid his vacation payment immediately prior to such shutdown,
11.04	Vacations shall be scheduled to commence not earlier than January 1st of the current year for those employees who are in Groups A, B, C and D and not earlier than March 1st of the current year for employees who are in Group E, and must be completed prior to December 31st of such year. Ai
Vacation	Payment
6 calendar weeks	12H
5 calendar weeks
10%
4 calendar weeks
8%
3 calendar weeks
6%
2 calendar weeks
4%
56
employee who attains one (1) year of credited service between March 1st and June 30th inclusive, shall not be granted his week of vacation pay until after the date on which he attained such credited service. Ail enipkn ce who
attains one (1), five (5), twelve (12), twenty (.20)., and-
twenty-five (25) years of credited service between January. 1-st and December 24th of the calendar year shall not be granted his additional week’s vacation with pay until after the date on which he attains such credited service.
ADDENDUM
An employee ma^ request pay in lieu of vacation time off up to the maximum listed in the following schedule:
Vacation Eligibility
3	weeks
4	weeks
5	weeks
6	weeks
Pay in Lieu of Vacation
1 week
1	week
2	weeks 2 weeks
The employee	only express such preference at the time
that he is contacted for selection of his preferred weeks of vacation. Such choice will be first choice for vacation selection.
Employees who qualify as of July 1st, and have elected to take pay in lieu of vacation time off in accordance with the above regulations, will receive their vacation cheques. for said week or weeks by mid July.
Those employees who qualify for their 3rd, 4th, 5th or 6th week of vacation between July 1 and December 31 per this clause 11.04, and who have elected to take pay in lieu of vacation time off in accordance with the above regulations, will receive their vacation cheque for said week(s) the week following their qualification for the additional week(s).
11.05	In any year that the Company follows its normal
practice of closing down for vacation, the employee who qualifies for vacation is expected to take his vacation during such period, providing he is not scheduled for maintenance or emergency work during the	closing-down
period. The Company will make a reasonable effort to post the time of such closing down by April 1st of the current year.
11.06	A definite period for vacation must necessarily be scheduled by the foreman of the department, giving due consideration to production requirements. No vacation pay will be authorized unless taken except as defined in this Article.
57
\ t V\
11.07	Vacation payment will not be made to an employee while he is absent from work by reason of sickness, injury, or leave of absence. If upon the employee's return to work:
(a)	the Company is unable to schedule his vacation prior to December 15th of the current year, or
(b)	the employee is unable to return to work for the reasons outlined above prior to December 15th of the current year
he shall be paid his vacation payment.
11.08	An employee whose employment is terminated by reason
of authorized retirement, permanent and total disability or death or by payment of a severance award under the provisions of the Pension Plan Agreement or Severance Award Agreement on or after July 1st, 1989, 1990, 1991 and before July 1st, 1990, 1991, 1992 shall be paid a vacation payment based on the percentage defined in Clause 11.01 and the wages he earned from July 1st, 1988,	1989,	1990,	1991
whichever is applicable to his termination date.
11.09	An employee in Groups A, B, C, D or E of Clause 11.01 whose employment is terminated because he resigns or is discharged, shall be paid a vacation payment per Clause 11.08.
11.10	An employee in Groups A, B, C, D or E of Clause 11.01 whose employment is terminated because he is laid off shall be paid a vacation payment as follows:
1)	Where termination occurs prior to July 1st of the current year and the employee has not had his vacation for such year, he shall be entitled to four per cent (4%) according to current legislation of his total earnings from July 1st of the previous year to his termination date. Should such employee be rehired at any time during the next vacation year (July 1st of the current year to June 30th of the next year) and the Company is unable to schedule his vacation prior to December 31st c£ the current calendar year, he shall be paid the vacation payment which he would otherwise have received but for such termination, less any amount he has received for the current vacation year in lieu of time off.
2)	Where termination occurs after July 1st cf the current year and the employee has not had his vacation for such year, he shall be paid vacation pay to which he is entitled on July 1st and in addition to, four per cent
(4%) of his earnings according to current legislation, from July 1st of the current year, to his ternination date.
58
3)	Where termination occurs after July 1st of the current year and the employee has had his vacation for such year, he shall be entitled to four per cent (4%) according to current legislation of his total earnings from July 1st of the current year to his termination date.
4)	Where an employee is not recalled from lay-off within
the current year,	he shall	be paid a vacation	payment
per clause	11.08,	less any	amounts of vacation	payment
received during the current year.
11.11	An employee whose employment is terminated for any
reason and who	has less than	one (1) year of	credited
service at such	time,	shall be	paid a vacation payment as
follows:
1)	Where termination occurs before July 1st of the current year and the employee has not had a vacation payment for such year, the employee shall be paid four per cent (4%) according to current legislation of his total
earnings from his hiring date to his date of termination.
2)	Where termination occurs after July 1st of the current year and the employee has not had a vacation payment for such year, the employee shall be paid four per cent (4%) according to current legislation of his total earnings from his hiring date to June 30th of the current year and in addition, he shall be entitled to four (4%) per cent according to current legislation of his total earnings from July 1st of the current year to his termination date.
3)	When termination occurs after July 1st of the current year and the employee has had a vacation payment for such year, he shall be entitled to four per cent (4%) according to current legislation, of his total earnings from July 1st of the current year to hit termination date.
11.12	Where an employee has been unable to work during the preceding calendar year, or any part thereof, owing to sickness or injury and Cor this reason only, the vacation pay is less than the following minimum, the vacation pay shall be increased to a minimum of three hundred and sixty-three ($363.00) dollars. Provided, the employee must have resumed his normal duties not less than two (2) months before vacation is granted.
11.13	An employee who has been on sick leave during the current year and who returns to work during such year, may by mutual agreement, at Step #3, be paid the vacation
59
payment due to him in lieu of time off.
11.14	In no instance will vacation be paid twice for the same period of tine.
11.15	In computing the earnings for vacation pay the
following items shall be included:	Uniroyal Goodrich
total taxable earnings (exclusive of special payment not covered by the collective labour agreement), vacation from the preceding year, Ontario Health Insurance premiums which are paid by the employer on behalf of the employee and short work week benefits paid under the S.U.B. plan and Workers' Compensation payments and Weekly Indemnity for lost time in the previous calendar year.
ARTICLE XII
DURATION OF AGREEMENT
12.01	This Agreement shall be effective from June 1. 1989 and shall remain ip full force until May 31, 1992 and thereafter from year to year unless either party gives to the other party, notice in writing cf cancellation within a period of ninety (90) days prior to May 31, 1992, or any anniversary thereafter.
12.02	Subject to the provision for cancellation, either party may give the other a notice of proposal for revision within a period of ninety (90) days prior to May 31, 1992 or any anniversary date thereafter in which event the parties shall meet to consider the proposed revisions within twenty (20) days of the date of such delivery of notice and this Agreement shall continue in full force and effect until agreement is reached upon the proposed revisions. Provided that if negotiations for revision of this Agreement continue for two (2) months without agreement, this Agreement may be cancelled by either party upon thirty (30) days written notice to the other.
12.03	In the event of written notice of cancellation having been given by either party as provided for in Clause 12.01 and 12.02 herewith, negotiations shell be carried on during the period cf notice of cancellation with a view to arranging a new Agreement. Should such negotiations extend beyond the expiration date, this Agreement shall not expire, but shall continue in full force and effect until the expiration of the applicable periods referred to in the Labour -Relations Act, as amended, or until a new Agreement is entered into by the parties, whichever date shall occur first.
12.04	The Pension Plan Agreement, Severance Award Agreement, Insurance Program Agreement, Supplementary Unemployment Benefit Plan Agreement, Separation Payment Plan Agreement,
60
the Mutual Dental Care Plan Agreement, Appendices A,B,C,D,E, and F, and the Letters of Understanding (#1 to 114 inclusive) attached hereto form part of this Collective Labour Agreement.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties have executed this Agreement this first day of June, 1989.
Signed, Sealed and Delivered in the presence cf:
FOR THE UNION :
	
100	■ 1
	,., f
	
	n ; >. s Jj	V’ r tJ
rr
~'7Yf
61
APPENDICES TO THE AGREEMENT
BETWEEN:	UNIROYAL GOODRICH CANADA INC.,
KITCHENER SOUTH PLANT
hereinafter called the "Company"
AND:	LOCAL #677 - UNITED RUBBER, CORK,
LINOLEUM AND PLASTIC WORKERS OF AMERICA hereinafter called the "Union".
During the recent negotiations the Union and Company agreed to the following Appendices to the Agreement:
APPENDIX A
sbkswp yoRK cbew
1.	PREAMBLE
It is the mutual desire cf the parties to ensure that the Kitchener South Plant attains the highest level of coapeti-tiveness possible by making maximum use of the manufacturing facilities. To this end, the parties agree that the Company may operate the plant on a continuous basis through the introduction of weekend crew(s).
It is understood that this Appendix A is necessary to clarify the conditions and terms of employment under which individuals will work on the weekend work crews.
The weekend work crew employees will be considered as full time employees of the Company subject to the provisions of the Collective Labour Agreement, Insurance Agreement, Dental Care Plan Agreement, Supplemental Unemployment Benefit Plan Agreement, Separation Payment Plan Agreement, Pension Plan Agreement and Severance Award Agreement, however, due to the unique character cf the weekend work crew, certain benefits and provisions of these Agreements between the patties will be applied in a different manner.
It is understood that a Weekend Work Crew schedule will not be implemented on a specific operation, until reasonable efforts have been made to obtain the necessary production using three-crew operation, plus Saturday and Sunday overtime work of up to 2 shifts.
The Company agrees that when production requirements on a specific operation can be achieved by a 3-shift, 5-day operation, with two shifts of weekend overtime, the previous 3 shift schedules will be re-implemented. Thereafter, if production requirements on a specific operation cannot be achieved with a 3-shift schedule, with two shifts of weekend
63
overtime, the Weekend Work Crew schedule will be reimplemented.
The Company may introduce and/or discontinue one or two weekend work crew(s) on any or all operation(s) or department (s) in the plant at any time a8 it determine8 is necessary.
The Company further undertakes that upon implementation of a Weekend Work Crew schedule reasonable efforts will be made to ensure continuity of the schedule.
2. HOURS OF WORK
Weekend work crews will be scheduled on the basis of two 12-hour shifts between the hours of 11:4S p.a. Friday and 11:45 p.m. Sunday, an& may be scheduled to work additional hours outside of this period as required.
3. SHIFT SCHEDULE
One weekend work crew
Start	End
Crew D 11:45 p.m. Friday 11:45 a.m. Saturday 11:45 a.a. Sunday 11:45 p.a. Sunday
Two weekend crews
Crew D
Crew E
Start

11:45 p.n. Friday 11:45 p.m. Saturday
11:45 a.a. Saturday 11.45 a.a. Sunday
11:45 a.a. Saturday 11:45 a.a. Sunday
11:45 p.a. Saturday 11:45 p.a. Sunday
The scheduling of the shift start and end times nay be changed by the Company as deemed necessary in order to accommodate the scheduling of one or more overtime shifts in conjunction with one weekend work crew.
4. METHOD OF PAYMENT
Weekend work crew employees will be paid according to the rate structure in the plant. Time worked up to 12 hour8 on Saturday and up to 12 hours on Sunday will be paid for on a straight time basis.
Weekend wok crew employees reporting for work on a Saturday or a Sunday, who had no reason for believing that work was not available, shall be paid a minimum of six (6) hours' pay
64
at rates as specified for "reporting for work" in section
7.26	of the Collective Labour Agreement, except that this shall not apply in the case of power breakdown outside the Company's property, catastrophe, nor a cause beyond the Company's control.
Weekend work crew employees called back to work on a Saturday or a Sunday after their regular weekend shift shall be paid at the rate of one and one-half times regular rate of pay for all hours worked. Six (6) hours minimum allowance at time and one-half shall be paid to all such employees.
5.	DISTRIBUTION OF OVERTIME HOURS
It is recognized that both weekend and weekday work crew employees nay be required to work overtime and such overtime shall be distributed as follows:
In cases where the Company has advance notice prior to the weekend of the need for overtime coverage on the weekend, weekday employees will be given first opportunity to work such overtime. In cases where the Company does not have such advance notice then weekend employees will be given the first opportunity.
In order to provide a reasonable opportunity for weekend work crew employees to obtain additional hours of work, they will be offered the first opportunity to cover for absences Monday through Friday which are expected to be of a duration of two (2) days or more, (Example: Vacation, V.C.B., Bereavement, Jury Duty, Crown Witness, Union Business, sickness or injury, personal leave, disciplinary suspension. )
Other daily overtime coverage for weekday work shall be offered first to weekday employees and secondly to weekend work crew employees.
Available weekday hours on Monday through Friday will not be offered to weekend crew employees whereby the weekend work crew employees would work more than twelve (12) consecutive hours without an eight (8) hour break in between the shifts.
6.	OVERTIME PAYMENT
Overtime at the rate of time and one-half will be paid for all hours worked in excess of twelve (12) hours on a Saturday or twelve (12) hours on a Sunday, and for hours worked in excess of eight (8) hours per day on Monday through Friday or hours in excess of forty (40) hours in a work week.
65
7.	DISPLACEMENT, LAY-OFF AND RECALL
It is understood that no weekday work crew employee will be forced to move to weekend shifts. Where the plant is required to reduce its schedule, such reductions will, wherever practicable, first be made on the weekend shifts; however, where it is necessary to continue to operate the weekend shift, reductions of the weekday work crews will be handled according to the displacsnent/layoff provisions of the Collective tabour Agreement and shall be applied only to weekday work crew employees.
Should a weekend work crew employee be declared surplus and be required to leave his job classification on the weekend crew, he shall displace the least senior weekend wok craw employee who has leas seniority than his own on any job classification that he is fully qualified to perform. If there are no such jobs available, then he may displace the least senior weekday work crew employee who has less seniority than his own on his own job classificaiton. If there are no such jobs available, then he shall exercise his rights as per Article VIII of the Collective Labour Agreement.
8.	JOB TRANSFERS
Weekend work crew employees Who wish to transfer to the weekday work crew and weekday work crew employees who wish to transfer to the weekend work crew, in the sane or other job classifications shall make application through their Department Manager on the Crew Transfer form as provided. Such application may be made only where the eaployee on the weekend work crew or the weekday work crew has been on the job for at least six (6) months after transfer or one (1) year after hire.
VACANCIES ON THE WEEKDAY CREW
Vacancies rill be posted in accordance with clause 8.19 of the Collective Labour Agreement. Applications will be considered as follows:
(a)	weekday crew employees who sake application prior to or during the posting period:
(b)	Weekend crew employees who make Crew Transfer application prior to or during the porting period.
These vacancies will be filled subject to the provisions of clause 8.19 of the Collective Labour Agreement.
66
VACANCIES ON THE WEEKEND CREW
Vacancies will be posted in the department and aain entrance for 48 hours Saturday through Sunday (exclusive of holidays). Applications will be considered as follows:
(a)	Weekend crew employees who make application prior to or during the posting period;
(b)	Weekday crew employees who have Crew Transfer applications on file prior to or during the porting period.
These vacancies will be filled subject to the provisions of clause 8.19 of the Collective Labour Agreement.
9.	VACATIONS
Weekend work crew employees eligible for vacation according to section 11.01 of the Collective Labour Agreement, will be entitled to take a naxinum of three (3) weeks of vacation per calendar year. Payment in lieu of time off will be granted far any additional vacation entitlement. The two-day weekend will be considered as one week of vacation.
10.	PAYMENT OF HOLIDAYS
In lieu of having the holidays off, payment on the basis of eight (8.0) hours straight time will be made to eligible employees for those holidays listed in Section 6.10 of the Collective Labour Agreement.
Payment will be double time for all hours worked on holidays plus holiday pay.
11.	BEREAVEMENT
Should a weekend work crew employee suffer a death in his family as defined in Section 7.27 of the Collective Labour
Agreement, and where the funeral is on a Friday, Saturday, Sunday or Monday, such bereaved employee shall be entitled to twelve (12) hours cf straight time pay and shall be excused from work on the day of the funeral. Where the bereavement is for the death cf the eaployee's father, mother, husband, wife, son, daughter, brother or sister, the employee shall be entitled to 24 hours of straight time pay and shall be excused from wok on both the Saturday and the Sunday. Notwithstanding the preceding, such bereavement pay and time excused from work shall not be applicable unless the employee attends the funeral.
67
12.	NIGHT SHIFT BONUS
A shift premium of thirty-five cent8 (354) will be paid far all hours worked between the hours of 3:45 p.o. and 11:45 p.m., and forty cents (404) will be paid for all hours worked between the hours of 11:45 p.m. and 7:45 a.n. on Saturday or Sunday.
13.	REST AND LUNCH
Rest and lunch periods will be scheduled by the Company on the basis of two 30-minute periods per 12 hour shift. The two 30-minute periods would not be scheduled consecutively unless mutually agreed upon.
14.	BENEFIT COVERAGE
The benefits set out in the Insurance Program Agreement, Dental Care Plan Agreement, Supplemental Unemployment Benefit Plan Agreement, Separation Payment Plan Agreement, Pension Plan Agreement and Severance Award Agreement shall be provided for weekend work crew employees except as follows:
(a)	Insurance Program Agreement
Article IV, clause 4.01, second paragraph, line 5 (page 51) : delete "forty (40) *' and substitute "twenty -four (24)".
Article IV, clause 4.04 (page 52); delete last sentence and substitute "Part weds shall be indemnified at the rate of one-half of the weekly amount for each Saturday or Sunday of disability."
(b)	Supplementary Unemployment Beneft Plan Agreement
Article IX, section 27 (page 111), line 4: delete "40 if on a Normal eight-hour day" and substitute "24, or the average hours worked over the previous 10 weeks (subject to a maximum of 40 hours per week) whichever is the greater.”
APPENDIX B
1, The amount of the interim increase shall be calculated and recalculated as provided below on the basis of the Consumer Price Index published by Statistics Canada (1971 = 100) and hereinafter referred to as the C.P.I.
68
2. First Year of Agreement
a)	"The base for calculations" is the average C,P.I, for the months of April, 1989, May, 1989 and June, 1989.
b) The first adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay period commencing September 22, 1989. It will reflect one cent (Id) per hour for each full .26 points that the average C. P . I. for the months of June, 1989, July, 1989 and August, 1989 exceeds the base for calculation.
c)	A second adjustment will be calculated, replace the
first adjustment,	if any, and paid	as of	the	pay
period commencing	on December	22,	1989.	It	will
reflect one cent	(Id) per hour	for	each	full	.26
points that the average C.P.I.	for	the months	of
September, 1989, October, 1989 and November, 1989 exceeds the base for calculation.
d)	A third adjustment will be calculated, replace the second adjustment, if any, and paid as of the pay period commencing on March 24, 1990. It will reflect one cent (Id) per hour for each full .26 points that the average C.P.I, for the months of December, 1989, January, 1990 and February, 1990 exceeds the base for calculation.
e)	A fourth adjustment, if any, will be calculated, and will be carried over throughout the second year of this agreement, and paid as of the pay period commencing on June 22, 1990. It will reflect one cent (It) per hour for each full .26 points that the average C.P.I. for the months of March, 1990, April, 1990 and May, 1990 exceeds the base for calculation.
3. Second Year of Agreement
a)
"The base for calculation" is the average C.P.I. for the months of April, 1990, Hay, 1990 and June, 1990.
b) The first adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay period commencing on September 21,	1990.
It will reflect one cent (Id) per hour for each full .26 points that the average C.P.I. for the months of June, 1990, July, 1990 and August, 1990 exceeds the
base for calculation.
c) A second adjustment will be calculated, replace the first adjustment, if any, and paid as of the pay period commencing on December 21, 1990. It will reflect one cent (Id) per hour for each full .26 points that the average C.P.I. for the months of
69
September, 1990, October, 1990 and November, 1990 exceeds the base for calculation.
d)	A third adjustment will be calculated, replace the second adjustment, if any, and paid as of the pay period commencing on March 22, 1991. it will reflect one cent {lid) per hour for each full .26 points that the average C.P.I. for the months of December, 1990, January, 1991 and February, 1991 exceeds the base for calculation.
e)	A fourth adjustment, if any, will be calculated, and will be carried over throughout the third year of this agreement, and paid as of the pay period commencing on June 21, 1991. It will reflect one cent (li) per hour for each full .26 points that the average C.P.I. for the months of March, 1991, April, 1991 and Hay, 1991 exceeds the base for calculation.
4
Third Year of Agreement
a)	"The base for calculation" is the average C.P.I. for the months cf April, 1991, May, 1991 and June, 1991.
b)	The first adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay period commencing on September 20,	1991.
It will reflect one cent (1«S) per hour for each full .26 points that the average C.P.I. for the months of June, 1991, July, 1991 and August, 1991 exceeds the base for calculation.
c)	A second adjustment will be calculated, replace the first adjustment, if any, and paid as of the pay period commencing on December 20,	1991. It will
reflect one cent (lrf) per hour for each full .26 points that the average C.P.I. for the months of September, 1991, October, 1991 and November, 1991 exceeds the base for calculation.
d)	A third adjustment will be calculated, replace the second adjustment, if any, and paid as of the pay period commencing on March 20, 1992. It will reflect one cent (1<) per hour for each full .26 points that the average C.P.I. for the months of Deceniber, 1991, January, 1992 and February, 1992 exceeds the base for calculation.
5.	The interim increase will be considered as earnings but will be boxed separately from other wage payments on the employee's time card.
6.	In the event Statistics Canada does not issue the appropriate Consumer Price Index on or before the date on
70
which an adjustment is to be calculated, any adjustment required will be made at the beginning of the first pay period following receipt of the index.
7.	No adjustments, retroactive or otherwise, shall be made due to any revision which may later be made in any published Consumer Price Index by Statistics Canada.
8.	Continuation of the interim adjustments is dependent upon the availability of the official Statistics Canada Consumer Price Index calculated on the same basis and in the same form as that published for February, 1989.
9.	Interim increase payments will be based on hours worked and hours paid for, including earnings for any payment under the S.U.B. Agreement and overtime.
10.	The current COLA payment accumulated..tcu..JV%' 31,	1989
will be rolled into the wage rates on a straight cents per hour basis.
11.	Future COLA payments, during the life of this Agreement, will be rolled effective June rolled into the rate structures on a straight-cents per hour basis.
12.	Notwithstanding the provisions tor the Increases as set out above, advances from Wage Increases will be made as follows:
Effective June 1, 1989 Effective June If 1990 Effective June 1, 1991
The ten cents (10*) advance of June 1> recovered in two (2) equal installments (5*) each taken from the Interim Wage September 22, 1989 and December 22, 1989.
The ten cents (10^) advance of June 1, recovered in two (2) equal installments (5*> each taken from the Interim Wage September 21, 1990 and December 21, 1990.
The ten cents (10*) advance of June 1, recovered in two (2) equal installments (5*) each taken from the Interim Wage September 20, 1991 and December 20, 1991.
Should the Interim Wage Increase calculations as set out above fail to produce an increase equal to or greater than the full five cents (56) recovery installment due
Interim Wage future Interim
10*
10*
10*
1989 will be of five cents Increases due
1990 will be of five cents Increases due
1991 will be of five cents Increases due
into the wage rates on a yearly basis, lst ’oTTach contract year. They will be
71
on the respective effective date of adjustment, the balance due on said installment(s) will be carried forward and deducted from the next subsequent Interim Wage Increase(s) in which there is a sufficient increase to cover the advance amount (s).
APPENDIX C
J.I.T.. S.P.C. AND EMPLOYEE PARTICIPATION PROGRAMS
PROJECT:
Expand the use of J.I.T., S.P.C. and Employee Participation Programs by establishing a joint committee to formulate policy and oversee the program.
Company and Union will have equal representation at all policy meetings. The parties will select their representatives.
OBJECTIVE:
To Reduce waste defined as anything other than the minimum amount cf equipment, materials, parts, floor space and workers' time which are absolutely essential to add value to the product by adopting a theme of Continuous Improvement,
STEPS REQUIRED:
Management and Union to provide encouragement, support and leadership to enable employees to utilize their full potential which will assist our plant to become a competitive and innovative world class manufacturing facility.
CRITERIA:
1.	Any reduction in staffing as a result of this project will be handled through attrition.
2.	The Company will advise the Union in advance of implementing any action related to this project.
3.	Should this project require new or revised standards, the Union Time Study will be involved with Company Industrial Engineer in the development cf the standard8 and will be paid average hourly earnings while so involved.
72
APPENDIX D
"MODULE CONCEPT” - TIRE BUILDING
PROJECT:
Implement "Module Concept" in Tire Building to optimize
equipment and maximize production potential.
STEPS REQUIRED:
Develop group incentive standards in Tire Building.
Formulate 5 modules, 6 machines per module, 12 employees per
module.
Module responsible for all functions.
Incorporate job rotation and group incentive program.
CRITERIA:
1.	Any reduction in staffing as a result cf this project will be handled through attrition.
2.	The Company will advise the Union in advance of implementing any action related to this project.
3.	Should this project require new or revised standards, the Union Time Study will be involved with Company Industrial Engineer in the development cf the standards and will be paid average hourly earnings while so involved.
APPENDIX E
WTTESBAlTnN of NON-vanre-annrn .tors twi vanin?-annv.n .tors
PROJECT:
Integrate Non-Value-Added Jobs into Value-Added Jobs and provide for efficient utilization of Manpower.
STEPS REQUIRED:
Examine Wak Content with a view to combining functions and redeployment of available waiting time.
Joint Union/Company analysis of Work Content.
1.	Mixing Department:
Replace the following job classifications with a Utility Position:
a)	Rubber Cutter
b)	Stock & Waste Control
c)	Absentee Replacement
73
Evaluate work content on #1 Banbury to make the operation more cost competitive.
Evaluate workload of Mixing Department cleaning functions.
2.	Calenderino/Extruding Department;
Replace Absentee Replacement Job Classification with Utility Classification.
Evaluate work content on 4-Roll Calender to make the operation coat competitive.
3.	Tire Preparation Department :
A)	Evaluate work content in the following job classifications :
a)	Liner Reroll	e)	Miscut
b)	|2 Bias Cutter	Service	f)	Sweeper
c)	Liner Pickup	g)	Vacation	Re-
d)	Liner Repair	placement
B)	Establish a Utility Classification.
C)	Investigate feasibility of Module Concept in Bead Area.
4.	Curing Departaent:
Evaluate work content of Press Operators to determine feasibility of performing bladder changes and taking over responsibility of Press Startups.
5.	Final Finish Departmenti
Evaluate wok content in the following job classifications:
a)	Rework
b)	Bulge Detection
c)	Light Buff
d)	Tire Repair
Cover above jobs under the Job Classification of Tire Repair with understanding that the four senior enployees in this group currently on one shift (days) will renain on that one shift until retirement, termination or transfer from their current jcb.
CRITERIA:
1.	Any reduction in staffing as a result of this project will be handled through attrition.
2.	The Company will advise the Union in advance of impleaen-ting any action related to this project.
3.	Should this project require new or revised standards, the
74
Union Time Study will be involved with Company Industrial Engineer in the development of the standards and will be paid average hourly earnings while so involved.
APPENDIX F
CONVERSION TO "MEASURED DAY WORK" SYSTEM
PROJECT:
Convert all present "Incentive Operations” excluding Tire
Building to a "Measured Day Work System".
STEPS REQUIRED:
Develop machine capacities to develop targets, manning
requirements and standards for costing purposes.
Joint Cotnpany/Union analysis of work content.
CRITERIA:
1.	Any reduction in staffing as a result of this project will be handled through attrition.
2.	The Company will advise the Union in advance of implementing any action related to this project.
3.	Should this project require new or revised standards, the Union Time Study will be involved with Company Industrial Engineer in the development of the standards and will be paid average hourly earnings while so involved.
75
ETTERS OF UNDERSTANDING
BETWEEN:	UNIROYAL GOODRICH CANADA INC.,
KITCHENER SOUTH PLANT
hereinafter called the "Company"
AND:	LOCAL #677 - UNITED RUBBER, CORK,
LINOLEUM AND PLASTIC WORKERS OF AMERICA hereinafter called the "Union".
During the recent negotiations the Union and Company agreed to the following Letters of Understanding:
Letter 1 MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT RE PRODUCTIVITY
During the 1989 contract negotiations, the Company and the Union agreed that it is in their mutual best interests to develop a procedure to enable the Company to take advantage of business opportunities, maximize productivity capabilities, maximize operating effectiveness and strengthen the plant's operations consistent with the welfare and job security of the employees.
This Memorandum of Agreement provides authorization to the parties to enter into discussions for the purpose of jointly developing, approving, and implementing programs to meet the objectives set forth above. The approval and implementation of any change shall be accomplished in each case through a Memorandum of Agreement between the parties. The approval of the Memorandum shall be made by the majority of the bargaining unit members in the department, departments, or operations within a department(s) which are directly involved.
Fundamental to this joint effort is the concept that the ongoing prosperity of Uniroyal Goodrich Canada Inc., Kitchener South Plant is mutually beneficial to both parties. This Memorandum of Agreement will serve as an instrument in achieving the common objectives of the Company and the Union as well as to solidify the continuing co-operative and constructive relationship between the parties.
Letter 2 VOLUNTARY OVERTIME
The Company and the Union do hereby agree to a period of voluntary overtime for one year commencing June 1, 1989.
During this time, the Company will ask for volunteers for ./() all overtime work except hours required for start up and '	-
shut down on an individual basis, to replace absentees, or to meet production requirements.
This agreement may be renewed for a one year period and
77
subsequent twelve month periods thereafter for the life of the contract by mutual consent of the Company and the Union.
It is understood and agreed that this agreement will be cancelled for those job(s) and/or department(s) operated on a six or seven day work schedule basis under the side agreement agreed to for that purpose.
The Company will maintain records pertaining to overtime hours offered and worked and will make every effort to equalize the overtime hours offered. The maximum number of overtime hours which can be offered on any given day during the normal work week will be four (4) hours.
When the Company deems it necessary to perform work on overtime, such overtime shall be distributed as equitably as reasonably practical within a group. It is understood that
this section does not assume that each employee sharing
overtime with a particular group will at any given time have received the same number of overtime hours but merely expresses the fundamental policy of the Company to keep such hours as nearly in balance from time to time as is practical under the circumstances.
If the balance of hours worked among a group which normally shares such overtime is not properly maintained because of improper allocation and grievance is filed, and as a result an employee is found not to have had his fair share of hours, the condition shall be identified and preference given to the aggrieved employee over the other employees involved as soon as practicable, until a fair balance is re-established.
The Union will have the right to check over the aforementioned records pertaining to overtime hours offered and worked.
Letter 3 FOR THE HANDLING OF EMPLOYEES WHO ARE MEMBERS OF THE BARGAINING UNIT AND WHO ACCEPT ASSIGNMENT TO SUPERVISORY DUTIES.
1.	Employees who accept assignment as foremen and elect to withdraw from the bargaining unit:
-	These employees will be paid rates and work scheduled hours as determined by the Company.
-	Upon completion of the assignment, the employee will be returned to the bargaining unit to a job per the Collective Agreement.
2.	Employees who accept assignment of foremen for a period
78
of up to three consecutive months and elect to remain in the bargaining unit:
-	These employees will be paid rates and work scheduled hours as determined by the Company.
-	Upon completion of the assignment, the employes will be returned to the job which he held prior to assignment.
-	It is agreed that any employee who changes jobs as a result of the assignment will be informed that such
change is on a loan basis and that at the end of the
assignment, he will return to the job he held prior to the assignment.
3.	Employees who are temporarily loaned to supervisory duties for a period not to exceed four weeks:
~ These employees will be paid per the terms and conditions of the Collective Agreement.
- During the term of the assignment, the Company will not be required to secure permission for daily and/or weekly overtime to the extent of half-hour per day.
-	Upon completion of the assignment, the employee will be returned to the job he held prior to the assignment.
4.	It i s understood that the lengths of assignments specified in 2 and 3 above map be extended by mutual agreement between Company and Union.
Letter 4 ADDENDUM RELATING TO CERTAIN ITEMS OF THE SKILLED
TRADES TRAINING PROGRAM
PAY:
Rates of pay for production and other regular employees who are transferred to the program axe set out below:
PEASE CNE:
General Maintenance rate to the end of Phase One or six months (6 months) .
PRASE TVO:
85% per hour for the first 6 months:	then two auto-
matic merit reviews at six-month intervals to 87% per hour and 89% per hour.
PEASE THREE:
91% per hour for the first six months; then two
79
automatic merit reviews at six-month intervals to 94% per hour and 96% per hour; then 98% per hour at the successful completion of the program.
(The top rate in Phase Two is based on 89% of the ceiling rate for the particular trade, and in Phase Three, the top rate is based on 96% of the ceiling rate for the particular trade.) Upon graduation the rate is 98% of ceiling rate for the trade with progression to full rate based on merit.)
SENIORITY:
1.	The trainee will continue to accumulate seniority on the job from which he was transferred as long as he is in the training program. Should the employee drop out of the program before his training is completed, or after he has completed the training program and there is no permanent vacancy which he can enter in his own particular trade group, he will return to the job from which he was transferred and be subject to the regular seniority program under the current collective agreement.
2.	When the trainee has successfully completed the program and is transferred to a vacancy in his own trade, at that time all h i s company service will be credited to his trade occupation.
OVERTIME:
In Phase One of the above program, the trainee will share in the General Maintenance overtime.
SELECTION OF TRADE:
After the original trade selection has been made, this selection cannot be changed, except by mutual consent of the company and trainee.
Letter 5 SUPPLEMENTARY AGREEMENT FOR SKILLED TRADES
For the Occupational Skilled Trades Classifications represented by the Union as set forth in the Collective Agreement between the Company and the Union:	Article 2, Sub-section
2.02.
PURPOSE:
The purpose of this Agreement is to provide for Job classifications and job descriptions for skilled trades and to provide a procedure for skilled tradesmen to obtain
"U.R.W. JOURNEYMAN CARD".
PROCEDURE :
The Company will upon request of the Union, provide a letter for a skilled trades employee in order to assist him
80
to obtain a "U.R.W. Journeyman's Card". Such letter shall contain, to the best of the Company's ability, a true statement of the employee's work record, qualifications, and a recommendation re his qualifications for the "U.R.W. Journeyman Card".
Letter 6 VOLUNTARY OVERTIME, AND TEE PAYMENT OF TIME AND ONE HALF (CLAUSE 6:07) WEEN AN EMPLOYEE IS LATE AND IS ASKED TO WORK OVER
Under the Collective Agreement, Clause 6:07 provides for payment of time and one half, for all hours in excess of eight hours in a twenty-four (24) hour period.
Local 677 would waive this condition of payment provided the employee who is more than two (2) hours late, for whatever reason, is not eligible to be asked for work.
If an employee is late two hours or less, and agrees to work an equivalent of hours on voluntary overtime, they would not be eligible for the time and one half payment, as per clause 6:07, on the following day when they report for their normal shift.
The interpretation will remain in effect as long as Voluntary Overtime continues to be an Agreement between Local 677 and Uniroyal Goodrich Canada Inc., Kitchener South Plant.
The interpretation of clause 6:07 does not apply to any other circumstances other than when an employee is unable to start their shift on time and are late two (2) hours or less.
This interpretation was discussed and agreed to by the Executive Board of Local 677 at their regular monthly meeting in July, 1985.
Letter 7 SAFETY SHOE SUBSIDY
The Company agrees to reimburse up to $45.00 toward the purchase cf approved safety shoes for each eligible employee subject to the following terms and conditions:
1. The $45.00 will be paid only to employees who have established seniority and who submit an authorized receipt certifying purchase of approved safety shoes.
Probationary employees will be reimbursed up to $45.00 toward safety shoes purchased at time cf hiring provided they complete the probationary period.
81
2.	Reimbursement will be made only once in any twelve month period for each eligible employee, with the first payment establishing the twelve month period for each individual employee.
3.	Wearing of safety shoes within the facility is mandatory.
Letter 8 POOL OF HOURS
The Company will make available to the Union a pool of hours to be administered by the Union President to cover tine lost from work by Union members for the purposes of conducting legitimate Local Union matters related to the administration of the various Collective Agreements between the parties. The number of hours available per month will be calculated each month on the basis of 9 hours per week per 100 employees and rounded to the nearest 5 hours, accumulative to a maximum of 400 hours.
For month of June, 1986 -
700 employees x 4.33 weeks/oonth x 9 hours/week divided by 100 employees = 272.8 rounded to 275 hours
The Local Union President will provide the Manager of Human Resources, each Monday, with a list of names of employees, hours to be paid to each, and the employee's personal straight-time Average Hourly Earnings plus any applicable interim increase, for the previous week.
The fallowing example details the available hours accumulative to the maximum of 400 hours under this commitment:
Month
Hours Accumulative Hours Hours Available (Max. 400) used Left
July, 1986 275 August, 1986 275 September, 1986 125 October, 1986 180 November, 1986 275 December, 1986 275 January, 1987 275
275	175	100
375	100	275
400	180	220
400	400	0
275	175	100
375	145	230
400	etc.,	etc...
Letter 9 PAYMENT FOR MEETINGS k UNION TIME STUDY
The Company will continue its present practice of payment for attendance at meetings and for the payment of training time for a Union tine study man on the following basis:
1) Payment for attendance at all meetings requested by
xdYS-
the Company or the Union for the purpose of explanation of operating procedures commonly known as "procedure meeting”.
2) Payment for a total of two meetings concerning a new or revised incentive standard; such two meetings may be comprised of any one of the following combinations:
a)	two explanation meetings; OR
b)	one explanation meeting and one grievance meeting;
OR
c)	two grievance meetings.
3)	Payment for every second meeting (half the number of meetings) for the negotiation of Collective and Welfare Agreements, providing that satisfactory progress is being made and also providing that such payment will not be made when negotiations are conducted at the Conciliation and/or arbitration levels.
4)	Payment will be made to a Union Time Study Trainee while he is being trained under Company direction.
Letter 10 UNION PRESIDENT'S PAY
The Local Union President will be reimbursed by the Company for forty (40) hours per week at the Power House Engineer (2nd Class) rate, plus any applicable interim increase, for time spent in the conduct cf legitimate Local Union matters concerning the administration of the Collective Labour Agreement.
In the absence from work of the Local Union President, for periods of 4 days or less, the Local Union Acting President will be reimbursed for eight (8) hours per day at his respective Average Hourly Earnings.
In the absence from work of the Local Union President, for continuous periods of five (5) days or more, the Local Union Acting President will be reimbursed for eight (8) hours per day at the Local Union President's rate.
Letter 11 OUTSIDE CONTRACTORS
The Company will continue its practice of notifying the Union when outside contractors are to be engaged in maintenance work in the plant. Such notice will be in writing and in advance, if possible.
The Company also agrees to use union contractors where possible in the above mentioned maintenance work.
83
Letter 12 PLIANT CLOSURE
In the event a full plant closure of the Uniroyal Goodrich Canada Inc., Kitchener South Plant at 131 Goodrich Drive becomes necessary during the life of this agreement:
1)	The Company will notify the Local and International Union at least 6 months prior to the .cessation of production operations.
2)	Following such notification, the Local and International Union will have the right to discuss and explore with the Company any possible means of averting the closure.
3)	If attempts to avert the plant closure are not successful, the Company and Union representatives will meet to discuss the manner in which the closure is carried out.
Letter 13 TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGES
During 1986 negotiations it was agreed by both parties that the trend is toward greater automation and technological change which could significantly alter the structure of the industry that remains.
In implementing any technological change, both parties recognize the importance of minimizing disruption to the workforce. With this objective in mind, it is agreed that:
The Company will notify the Union of any technological changes when the necessary approvals for expenditures are obtained and earlier if possible.
b) During the regular "state of the business” meetings with the Union Executive, technological change items will form part of the agenda.
e)	Wherever possible, any workforce reduction will be handled by attrition.
Wherever possible, remaining employees affected by technological change will be re-trained on the new equipment, operation or procedure.
Letter 14 MAINTENANCE DEPARTMENT - REGULATED TRUES
SKILLED TRADES
It is the intent of the Company to introduce, and in the
a4
long term, replace the existing Skilled Trades Classifications with the Regulated Trades under the Apprenticeship and Tradesmen's' Qualifications Acts of the Province of Ontario. The Regulations for the four (4) classifications listed below will replace existing job descriptions and serve to outline necessary qualifications and skills. The current Skilled Trade8 Training Program will provide for the necessary in-house training (for employees in this training program) to be deemed qualified under the referred to Regulations.
The four (4) Regulated Trades are:
1.	Industrial Mechanic	Regulation 43
2.	Industrial Electrician	Regulation 718/86
3.	Steamfitter	Regulation 124/73
4.	General Machinist	Regulation 38
Method cf Implementation:		
All employees in the current Skilled Trades Classifications will be given ^he option, by September 1, 1989, by the Maintenance Department Manager with Union Representation present, to either accept or refuse the Regulated Trade pertaining to himself. If the employee accepts and applies his skill and knowledge to perform all functions as described in the Regulated Trade into which his current trade will be designated, be will be paid the higher rate negotiated between the Union and the Company regarding the Regulated Trade. If the employee refuses and wishes to maintain his present status, he will be paid the rate of pay negotiated between the Union and the Company for his Skilled Trade Classification under his current job description.
In addition, the Company recognizes that all employees in the current Skilled Trades designations may not have all the necessary skills or knowledge to be fully qualified under the Regulated Trades. To assist these employees to upgrade themselves, the Company will provide in-house training where applicable, as well as reimburse eupToyees for expenses, excluding wages, to those who may require upgrading through ' Community College Courses, ICS Training, or other applicable" courses. If employees make suitable arrangements through the Maintenance Department Manager to attend courses and thereby lose some time off their regular shift, or to attend seminars of up to 3 days duration, the Company will reimburse employees for lost wages from their normal shift.
In addition, it is understood between the Union and the Company that even though employees may not have all the necessary qualifications, if they are willing to perform all functions of the Regulated Trade, they will be paid the rate as it applies to such Regulated Trade.
85
DESIGNATION OF PRESENT SKILLED TRADES GLASSIFICATIONS
Maintenance Mechanic Pipefitter (excluding 4)
Welder
Instrument Mechanic Electrician
Electrician Electronically Qualified
Instrument Mechanic Pipefitter (4 employees)
Machinist
NOTE:	1. Instrument Mechanics
Industrial Mechanic depending on their perform the job.
2. Pipefitters have the option of either Steamfitter (limited to four (4) employees) or Industrial Mechanic based on their desire, willingness to perform the job and seniority.
LABOURERS, GENERAL MAINTENANCE, BUILDING MAINTENANCE AND
OILERS
It is the intent of the Company to eliminate the Labourer Classification and reduce the number of General/Building Maintenance in the long tern. The goal is to result in five (5) General/Building Maintenance Personnel and to maintain three (3) Oilers.
Method of Implementation:
1. By January 2, 1990, the Company agrees to providing four (4) additional Skilled Trades Trainee positions to be filled by this group of individuals. With the appropriate Union Representative present, the Maintenance Department Manager will offer the opportunity to the Oilers first, based on highest seniority, and will then ask the highest seniority individual of the remaining group until the four (4) openings are filled.
Individuals who accept will be paid according to the Skilled Trades Training Rater as established,	all
remaining individuals will receive the rate of pay as negotiated between the Union and the Company pertaining to their current classification, in the event that «n
>
>	All go to Industrial
>	Mechanic Regulation 43
>
>	All go to Industrial
>	Electrician Regulation
>	718/86
>
>	Go to Steamfitter Regulation 124/73
>	Go to General Machinist Regulation 38
have an option of either or Industrial Electrician desire and willingness to
86
Oiler's job becomes vacant as the result of acceptance into the training program, it will be offered to the highest seniority individual from the remaining group until it is filled.
2.	Individuals who retire, transfer out, or leave the Company, will not be replaced in the General/Building Maintenance classification until such time as the goal cf five (5) is reached.
3.	The Company agrees to continue with the additional Skilled Trades trainee positions for these classifications until such time as the end objective is reached.
4.	Employees have the option to refuse the skill upgrading and will be paid the rate of the job as negotiated between the Union and the Company under their present classifications,
87
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
UNITED RUBBER, CORK,	ASTICS
WORKERS OF AMERI
UNIROYAL GOODRICH CANADA INC.
BETWEEN
AND
During discussions regarding the need to create a viable Canadian tire facility, the following letters of understanding were agreed upon by the parties.
1.	Wage Payment Systems
It is mutually agreed between the parties that the Company has the right to restudy all job functions within the Kitchener South facility, to accurately measure work content, review procedures, methods and evaluate impact on quality. It is agreed that upon completion of the studies new incentive labour’ standards, to accurately reflect job content and updated job procedures, will be issued and put into effect for the manufacturing of beads and tire building. In addition measured daywork standards will be set along with updated job procedures which will reflect any changes in job content etc. for hourly rated product ion employees. Measured day work standards will be issued to set expected production targets for the various hourly rated production jobs and to give both management and the employee a tool to measure acceptable performance.
The present Wage Payment Systems for incentive employees will be changed per the following:
A.	The current bonus plan in tire building will be expanded to the bead department, The bonus unit value to be used in the bead department will be .000131.
B,	The current 100 unit hour cap for a clean time sheet will be raised up to a maximum of 100 unit hour for a clean time sheet and the bonus will be applied to the additional units.
A clean time card is a time sheet with no day work or lost time claimed but is comprised solely of work performed which is covered by incentive standards.
MorfhfVi QL.An>T —
O iO OtZ.
C.	As the result of the higher earning opportunity all delay time excluding those listed below will be paid at 70% of Average Unit Hour including bonus.
D.	Appendix C, D, E and F will apply.
Exclusions:
1. Work on his regular job and no incentive standard is available he will be compensated at his Average Unit Hour (7:17 of C.L.A.) including bonus.
2a) When temporarily reassigned to job and there is work available on his job he shall be paid his Average Unit Hour including bonus if to a job out of class or the rate of the job to which he is assigned if greater.
b) If reassigned in class and work is available on his job he will receive no guarantee but will be paid the base rate of the job to which he is temporarily assigned and the unit hour and bonus he develops on such job - (7:13 C.L.A.)
Examples:	1st step builder assigned to
another 1st step m/c :	1st step builder assigned to
2nd step m/c and is
qualified
:	2nd step builder assigned to
1st step and is qualified :	Bead Tip Flip operator
assigned to another Tip Flip m/c
:	Assigned to any bead making
equipment and is qualified :	Assigned to any building 1st
or 2nd stage and is qualified
3.	Experimental or Developmental work will be paid A.H.S including bonus (7:19 C.L.A.)
4.	Employee involvement meetings, Special Meetings and (State of the Business, Plant Manager or those called by the Department Manager), Union Business to be paid at the employees Average Hourly Earnings including bonus.
- 3
5.	When an incentive employee is idle due to mechanical delays or stock waiting and accepts other assigned work in place of enforced idleness he will be paid 80% of his Average Unit Hour including bonus.
E. Time Sheets will be prorated for the following conditions only:
a)	employee involvement meetings
b)	attend special meetings
■ c) reassignment at Management request except as per 2b above when an • employee has attained 7,0 hours on standard d) Union time
The above changes were made to ensure eight hours work for eight hours of pay and for the long term viability of the plant.
2,	Continuous Operations
The parties recognize and agree to the need to run designated operations and selected equipment on a continuous basis to avoid the quality problems associated with "stops and starts" or to maximize the quality and productivity advantages some equipment has over other equipment. When the company requires that "running machines" be "handed over" to the next shift, it will pay ... $1,27.5 per shift to each employee responsible for "handing over" said machines. The company will give affected employees 24 hours notice if they do not require a machine to be "handed over." Machines expected to be "handed over" include for example all Mixers, 4 Roll Calendar, Inner Liner Calendar, Tread Tuber, Side Wall Tuber, VMI/ Bias Cutter, 03 Bias Cutter, Presses, Trimming, Inspection, Hot Line Classifier and TUO's, Recognizing the importance of absentee replacement, the company shall post the A/R jobs in that department for a new higher pay scale, job progression and fixed training schedule. After these positions are initially filled, job progression will be used to fill future openings. Because the absentee replacements will be paid at the top of the job progression, the company shall recognize seniority when staffing absentee replacement openings with employees capable of running multiple operations within the department, In the Press Room, the utility and the vacation replacement will be eliminated and six new absentee replacements will be created at the top of the progression. Absentee replacement will be expected to cross department lines as required,
4 -
3.	Flexibility/Machine Utilization
While the existing contract affords management considerable flexibility to operate the plant in a cost effective manner, poor communications and/or past practices need to be addressed. The company recognizes its responsibility for good communication and consistent treatment of all employees. It is therefore understood that in the future the company will expect cooperation in the following:
To balance production requirements, a.qualified employee or crew can be moved to another operation in any department for which the employee or crew is qualified. This will include, for example, moving a builder between first stage and second stage building, even when they have work on their original operation. Further, if an incentive operator were to "cap out" the company may move an employee to the "capped out" machine, The practice of employees claiming "ownership" to a machine will be discontinued in order to operate the facility in a most cost effective manner, V'fc will continue the practice of issuing a weekly work schedule. Further, to use human and capital resources to their fullest potential, the company will, for example, use dual classifications where required.
4.	Blddina/BufflPinq
It is agreed that the following is intended to apply except to the extent that it is temporarily affected by the transition agreement which will be written to ensure we maintain our customer base during the consolidation of Kitchener North resources into the facility. When the company needs to balance workloads among or between different operations and open positions need to be filled when employees are available from other operations, the company will move the available employee (s) directly to the open position (s) after job progression has taken place. Because of the high coat of training and the negative impact that training on new operations tends to have on quality, the current language allowing one bid on a new position every six months is changed to one bid every six months not to exceed five in 36 months.
5
5,	Absenteeism
The parties recognize that abusive absenteeism hurts the long-term survival opportunity of the facility. The existing language to address abusive absenteeism will not be changed, but the company wishes to communicate its intent to focus its attention on addressing abusive absenteeism in the future. At the same time, the company recognizes its responsibility to use good judgement so that loyal and dedicated employees who have legitimate problems are not harassed. The above intentions are aimed at helping to make the facility more cost effective.
6,	Maintenance/Qutside Contractors
The practice of "matching" of hours of skilled trade employees to that of outside contractors will be discontinued. The Company will continue the practice of upgrading the skills and abilities of Skilled Trade employees to reduce the use of outside contractors. The company will continue its present practice of informing and discussing the use of outside contractors when they are required with the Union Skilled Trade representative.
7,	Mann ing
The most significant opportunity to improve Kitchener South's productivity is to successfully achieve the following planned manning reductions. The reductions will be made in conjunction with filling open positions and/or the staffing of a fourth shift so that no layoff’s will occur from these reductions during the transition.
The planned reductions are calculated on the current three shifts and assume 12,000 tires per day. The reductions are primarily based on:	comparison to similar
operations, the implementation of a 107 unit hour cap on incentive standards, increased flexibility in work rules, more accurate job requirements, anticipated changes in selected equipment and methods and recognition by all employees that a major improvement is required for Kitchener South to become a viable facility.
6
Manning
Estimated Reductions
Mixing Calendaring Stock Cutting Bead Making Tire Building Curing Final Finish Warehouse
Total
64 - 77
8.	Transition
Recognizing the need to maintain our customer base during the closing of the Kitchener North plant and the planned consolidation at Kitchener South, it is agreed that from July 1st 1991 to December 31 1992, the following will be in effect at the Kitchener South facility:
a)	Job transfers will be suspended except for in the Lab, Receiving, Stores, Tire Repair, Janitorial, Warehouse and Skilled Trades Training Program which will be posted.
b)	Open positions will be filled by recall rights, job progression followed by job postings at the Kitchener North facility
c)	Employees hired from Kitchener North will be considered as new employees for job postings and layoff for a period of three years from closing after which the seniority they had accrued at Kitchener North will be added to the seniority and service they earn as new employees in the Kitchener South facility.
d)	Immediately upon being hired at Kitchener South, Kitchener North employees will be eligible for Health and Welfare Benefits, vacation, pension and SUB credits.
e)	Job transfers on record as of July 1,	1991
will be honoured.
f)	The #1 Tread Tuber will be relocated from Kitchener North with its crew to the extent that Kitchener South Tread Tuber employees will not be displaced.
Work Schedules
- 7 -
The company will implement a seven day work week consisting of twenty one scheduled eight hour shifts to improve the utilization of capital and to improve cost effectiveness. It is the company's intent to phase this schedule in commencing in the fourth quarter of 1991. Because four crews are not required at this time for all operations, selected operations such as Receiving, Four Roll calendar, Three Roll calendar and Tire Repair will be scheduled for one or two shifts per day including Saturday and Sunday. These schedules will be made available as soon as they are developed.
It is agreed that the seven day, four shift, eight hour work schedule shall not he renegotiated (there shall be no Union proposals to modify the work schedule) in the upcoming 1992 negotiations.
Hours of Work
6.01
6.02
delete and substitute the following: -"the normal working hours for employees shall be eight (8) hours per day with an average of forty - two	hours per week according to the
4 crew, 7 day, 8 hour schedule attached.
The normal work week shall commence at 11:45 pm Sunday and terminate at 11:45 pm the following Sunday. "
add new revised sentence to read: -"It is recognized that an (8) hour day shall be exceeded in the starting and stopping of holiday shifts or vacation shutdowns, replacement of absentees and in cases of emergency; an emergency shall be determined on a mutual basis by the Company and the Union representative."
delete
6.03 (2) delete the words "of forty (40) hours”; the reference is a normal work week
6.03	(3) delete the words "of forty (40) hours"; the
reference is a normal work week
6.04
delete last sentence
8
Overtime
6,06	delete and substitute the following: -
"Overtime hours worked on an employee's first scheduled day off shall be compensated at the rate of time and one-half.
Overtime hours worked on an employee's second or subsequent scheduled day off shall be compensated at the rate of double time.
All hours worked in excess of 40 hours will be compensated at time and one-half.
Voluntary Overtime
It is understood and agreed that the Company will ask for volunteers for overtime work beyond the requirements of the normal work week schedule (excepthours required for start up and shutdown shifts) on an individual basis t o replace absentees, or to meet production requirements
Holidays
6 ,10
delete reference to observance of holidays on Friday or Monday
add new paragraph as follows: -"When any of the holidays listed in this clause fall on an employee's scheduled day off, he will be paid for said holiday, if eligible, and will not be granted another scheduled work day off",
1992 Statutory Holidays
The following is a list of Statutory Holidays and the date upon which they will be recognized and paid for as agreed by the Union and the Company during the negotiations.
New Years,Day Good Friday
victoria Day Canada Day,
Wednesday, January 1 Moved to Easter Sunday, April 19 Monday, May 18 Moved to Sunday July 19
9
Statutory Holidays continued
Civic Holiday Labour. Day Thanksgiving Day Remembrance Day
Christmas Day Boxing Day
Monday, August 3 Monday, September 7 Monday, October 12 Changed to a Floating Holiday
Friday, December 2 5 Saturday, December 2.6 '/)
Floating Holidays
All employee's will be credited with three.. (3) Floating Holidays which can be taken at the employee's option subject to the approval of his foreman. The Company will attempt to accommodate the majority of requests for the floating holiday by hiring additional employee's for such purpose. It was also understood and agreed that employee's should give sufficient notice to his foreman to enable the supervisor sufficient time to plan and therefore grant the employee's request.
Weekly Indemnity
4.04	add following words to last sentence: - "to a
maximum of six (6) work days in any normal work week”.
Supplemental Unemployment Benefit Plan Agreement Article IX - Definitions
Section 8 (b) (iv)
For employees working on a 4-crew, 7-day, 8-hour schedule, it is agreed that the words "on Saturdays and/or Sundays" will be considered to be read as "on
normal days off", and, in a week when an employee is scheduled t o work six (6) days, Saturday w i 11 be excluded in the computation of compensated or available hours.
10
1992 vacation Schedule
The company will schedule two (2) weeks summer vacation period commencing on Sunday, July 19 at 11:45 pm through till Sunday, August 2 at 11:45 pm, The company will also schedule a one (1) week winter vacation period commencing on Wednesday, December 22 at 11:45 pm through till Thursday, December 31 at 11:45 pm, December 25 and 26 (Christmas and Boxing Day Statutory Holidays) are not counted as vacation days during this winter vacation period but remain recognized as Statutory Holidays. It was mutually agreed between the parties that all employee's would be required to use vacation entitlement during the vacation periods outlined above.
It was also agreed between the parties to discontinue the present practice of allowing employee's to take only full weeks of vacation and to allow employees with one (1), two (2) and three (3) weeks vacation entitlement remaining, the ability to select single days of vacation or multiple's thereof, if so desired, subject to the foreman's approval; it was understood and agreed between the parties that a week of vacation in regards to taking single days of vacation consists of 5 days and that the Company will try and accommodate the majority of the requests for single day vacations by hiring additional employee's,
It was agreed that for employees who do not have 3 weeks vacation entitlement and who have 1 year or more service would be paid under the Short Wok Week provision of the S , (J , 3 , Agreement for the Winter Vacation period. Payment would be made only for those days where the employee was normally scheduled to work on the 7 day, 8 hour shift schedule and would not be eligible or receive payment for his normally scheduled days off.
11
4 CREW, 7 DAY fl HOUR SCHEDULE
(7-3-2-2)
7 - DAY WORK WEEK COMMENCES 11:45 P.M. SUNDAY
ROTATION:	NIGHTS —> DAYS — > AFTERNOONS
AVERAGE 42 HOURS/WEEK (40 + 48 + 40 + 40)
SCHEDULE REPEATS EVERY 4 WEEKS
DAYS OFF:	SAT. - SUN. - MON.
TUES. - WED.
THURS. - FRI.
The foregoing letters of understanding form agreement between the parties to address the survival issue of one Canadian tire
facility.
Signed this
day of July 1991
FOR THE COMP MX
Uniroyal Goodrich Canada Inc.
FOR THE UNIOM
United Rubber, Cork Linoleum & Plastic workers