between
Brantford, Ontario
and the
Local Union No. 733
uasaor-'
ec?/?Q3
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Article I Article II Article ill Article IV Article V Article VI Article VII Article VIII Article IX Article X Article XI Article XII Article XIII
Recognition .........
Discrimination.......
No Strike or Lockout...
Hours ofWork.........
Wages................
Overtime ............
Vacations ...........
Grievance Procedure .
Seniority ...........
Leave of Absence ....
Miscellaneous .......
Union Security ......
Duration of Agreement
Supplemental Agreements . Letters of Understanding .... Summaries of Benefit Plans C.L.A. Index..............
...3
..3
.A
..4
.7
27
31
34
42
.58
61
65
..69
..75
110
121
AGREEMENT
This AGREEMENT made and entered into as of the 2fith day of April. 1991.
BETWEEN
GATES CANADA INC.
in Brantford, hereinafter referred to as “the Company”,
AND
LOCAL NO. 733
OF THE UNITED RUBBER, CORK, LINOLEUM AND PLASTIC WORKERS OF AMERICA, AFL-CIO-CLC,
hereinafter referred to as “the Union”.
2
ARTICLE I
Recognition
The Company recognizes the Union as the sole and exclusive bargaining agency for all the employees of the Company, save and except foremen, persons above the rank of foreman, uniformed security guards, Chief Engineer, office and sales staff.
ARTICLE II
Discrimination
The Company and the Union agree that there shall be no discrimination or intimidation of any sort practised by the Company or by the Union by reason of any activity or lack of activity, past or future, of any employee with or in respect to membership or nonmembership or activity or lack of activity in the Union.
2.02	The Company agrees that it will not by any means, directly or indirectly, persuade or influence, or attempt to.persuade or influence any employee against membership or activity in the Union. The Union aarees that it will not solicit membership on Company time.
The Company and the Union agree to maintain the policy of no discrimination by reason of age, sex, race, colour, creed or national origin.
ARTICLE 111
No Strike or Lockout
3.01	The Union agrees to the no-strike provisions of the Labour Relations Act of Ontario which says, "No employee bound by the Agreement shall strike”, and “No employee shall do any act if he knows or ought to know that, as a probable and reasonable consequence of the act, another person or persons will engage in an unlawful strike.” Under the Act a “strike includes a cessation of work, a refusal to work or continue to work by employees in combination or in concert or in accordance with a common understanding, or a slowdown or other concerted activity on the part of employees designed to restrict or limit output.”
3.02	The Company agrees that it will not take over the processing of materials from any other firm at which a strike is in progress, with the purpose of assisting that firm in breaking the strike. Employees under the bargaining unit, will not be required to cross the picket lines of other firms where duly sanctioned strikes are in progress.
3.03	The Company agrees there shall be no lockout so long as this Agreement continues to operate.
ARTICLE IV
Hours of Work
4.01	The normal weekly schedule of the factory is a five day, forty hour week, Monday to Friday inclusive, but this shall not be construed as a guarantee of hours of work per day or per week.
4
Article IV - Hours of Work - Confd.
Each employee is assigned regular shift hours according to his type of work and number of shifts per day. Weekly starting times and shift starting times will be scheduled in accordance with production requirements. In the event production conditions require that a major change be made in starting times as set forth above, the Union Executive will be advised of the change and reason therefore. Normal shift schedules will be as follows:
Material Preparation Department, Belt Department, Hose Department and Maintenance:
Day Shift: 7 a.m. to 3 p.m. - 20 minutes paid lunch period.
Afternoon Shift: 3 p.m. to 11 p.m. - 20 minutes paid lunch period.
Graveyard Shift: 11 p.m. to 7 a.m. - 20 minutes paid lunch period.
Warehouse:
Day Shift: 7 a.m. to 3 p.m. - 20 minutes paid lunch period. and/or
8	a.m. to 4 p.m. - 20 minutes
paid lunch period, and/or
9	a.m. to 5 a.m. - 20 minutes
paid lunch period.
Lab:
Day Shift: 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. - 20 minutes paid lun^h period.
aiiu/Ot
7 a.m. to 3 p.m. - 20 minutes paid lunch period.
Afternoon Shift: 3 p.m. to 11 p.m. - 20 minutes paid lunch period.
Article IV - Hours of Work - Cont’d,
On operations where production conditions make it advisable, such as warehouse and Power Plant, other starting times may be used.
4.02	Two lo-minute rest periods will be allowed each shift with smoking privileges.
4.03	The following job operations will be allowed special clean up:
1.	Banbury crew.
2.	Carjjplnarte.c?. w.bryj. unloadinn carbon black.
3.	Mechanics, Helpers, and Oilers when working on Banburys.
4.	Employees working in the Banbury area who are subjected to excessive carbon black by handling, or because of a mishap.
5.	Lead extruder crew.
Employees working on the above operations will be given twenty minutes in which to wash up, without loss of pay. Whether or not they complete their shift before such wash up will be left to the discretion of their foremen. If they are required to finish out their shifts, instead of leaving work twenty minutes early, they will receive twenty minutes extra pay (at straight time hourly rate) for the shift just completed, but the extra twenty minutes will not count as time worked for overtime calculations. If the employee doesn't clean up, he will not receive the clean up allowance.
6
ARTICLE V
Wages
5.01 Definitions
1.	Average Hourly Earnings
Average hourly earnings (AHE) as used in this agreement is defined as the employee's average weekly hourly earnings exclusive cf all premiums. A.H.E. will be based where possible on the earnings for the second week prior to date of application. However, a week in which an employee has less than twenty-eight (28) hours of incentive earnings will not be used in calculating AHE, Saturday and Sunday earnings will be excluded when calculating average hourly earnings.
2.	SatisfactoryEffort
For the purpose of this agreement an employee will be considered to have put forth satisfactory effort by working at E.I.E. effort level or above (limit being CAP) for all productive time available during his shift excluding standard allowances.
5.02	(a) The establishment of incentive rates on all operations or on new equipment replacing or adding to other operations or equipment shall be derived from stop watch readings, and calculated on the basis of a plus three (126%) on the Company's rating scale so that an average experienced employee using proper methods working at normal incentive effort and pace and producing a quality product will be able to earn the EIE of that job classification on which the employee works.
Article V - Wages - Conf d.
All future incentive rates and present established rates when revised will be calculated so that an operator working under machine or cycle restricted times can maintain CAP earnings.
The following rules will govern the application of CAP payments for machine times or cycle restricted times when such elements are a part of any incentive rate:
(1)	All actual machine or cycle restricted times will be increased by ten (10) percent to allow an earning level of CAP.
(2)	All internal work performed by the operator or operators during the machine or cycle restricted time will be at CAP earnings level of performance with the Company retaining the right to utilize the full machine or cycle restricted time at CAP earnings level.
(3)	iTVe working formula for the determination cf a machine or cycle restricted element is as follows:
When working time at CAP divided by the actual machine or cycle restricted element equals a factor less than one, the machine or cycle restricted element will be extended to CAP earnings level.
(4)	CAP payment for machine cycle time will be left where it presently is in the existing rate calculations on all operations which have already been restudied.
CAP payment for machine cycle time will also be left where it presently is in the existing rate calculations
Article V - Wages - Cont’d,
or any other rates which are changed under Article V of the Collective Labour Agreement.
Rates on new operations and new product lines will have CAP payment for machine cycle time included at the “bottom line” as discussed and agreed to by the parties except for elements having established standard data.
As used herein “bottom line” is defined as an addition after the application of miscellaneous and negotiated allowances to arrive at the total allowed time.
(c) In establishing rates consistent standard data will be used and applied by the Company.
(d) Interference times set by the Company by using manuals will be spot checked by stop watch readings before they are included in the rates for an operation. If interference times cannot otherwise be agreed upon they will be subject to a joint time study at the request of the Union.
5.03	It is agreed that no change in established piecework rates or standards will be made, unless there is a change in job content, such as method, construction, compound, group arrangements, breakdown, layout, equipment, material or material specifications, which either increase or decrease the time necessary to produce a unit of production. Any change in established piecework rates or standards will be made commensurate with the degree of change in job content so that operators working with the same skill and effort as before the change was made will have the same earnings opportunity.
Article V - Wages - Cont’d,
Unless otherwise mutually agreed, changes in established piecework rates or standards (not including standard data) will be made as soon as possible, but not later than One Hundred and Twenty (120) days following a change in job content and the issuing of the revised S.O.P. It is understood that where an employee increases his efficiency through his own skill and effort, it shall not be interpreted as being a change in job content, provided he follows the standard operational procedure and maintains quality standards.
This limitation will not be applicable under the following conditions:
1.	Where changes are made so that the established piecework rate or standard is not applicable and guarantee payment is provided.
2.	Where a series of small changes in job content is made over a period greater than that specified above and which would normally reduce the piecework rate or standard and the accumulated changes in rate or standard are installed at one time. In such cases the Union Time Study Engineer and President of Local 733 will be advised in writing cf each change at the time such change is made; in the event such change is not made within six (6) months from the date the Union is notified, the written notice will be considered null and void.
(a)	Obvious mathematical errors in rate calculations and obvious inaccuracies relating to job content made at the time the rate was computed will be corrected, unless more than ninety (90) days have elapsed since the rate was effective, in which event corrections may be made only by mutual agreement.
10
Article V - Wages - Confd.
New rates or changed rates in effect for ninety days will be established and not subject to grievance.
(b)	In new or changed operations that are the same as existing operations on which the Company has accepted standard data, the piecework rate for such operation may be computed from such data. The Union may request a time study check on any rate so established if the request is made within ninety days after the new or changed rate became effective.
5.06	It is agreed that the Company shall base its piecework rates or standards on the full use of an employee's time, which consists of full productive time on the job less reasonable allowances.
5.07	The department steward concerned will be notified of new rates or of changes in established piecework prices and, f he so requests, he will be allowed the maximum of two (2) working days to check the facts before the proposed incentive rates become effective. The new rate or rate change will be posted for two (2) working days before becoming effective except rates set from standard data will be effective at the start of the next shift, unless the steward requests checking time.
5.08	In the event a dispute between the parties involving a rate or standard is appealed to Step 3 of the Grievance Procedure, the Company upon receiving written request from the Union, will permit a qualified URW International Timestudy Engineer, approved by the International Union, to enter the plant for the purpose of making studies of the rate or standard in dispute in order that the Union may be in a position to properly present its case to the employer for further negotiations. The employer's timestudy engineer shall be present at all times during such studies or observations by the Union timestudy engineer.
11
Article V -Wages - Cont'd,
5.09	The Company will recognize a qualified Local Union Time Study Engineer who is a member of Local 733, and whose function it will be to investigate disputed incentive rates on behalf of the Union. The Local Union Time Study Engineer will represent the Union in discussions of Time Study matters with the Company Time Study Department, and may take Time Studies of operations on which rates are subject to protest. It is understood that a Company Time Study Engineer shall be present at all times during such studies or observations by the Union Time Study Engineer. The Company will pay the Union Time Study Man when it removes him from his job to discuss time study matters or when it asks him to check-study a rate.
5.10	(a) The following rules shall govern the implementationof new and revised rates:
(1)	The supervisor of the department or the Indus-
trial Engineer shall present a copy of the proposed procedure to the employees and the Union Time Study Engineer and/or his designee so that they may review how the Company wants the job performed. The purpose of this review is to allow the employees the opportunity to study the procedure, become familiar with it, and to suggest changes. The operator shall have 16 hours to work on the proposed procedure before a time study is commenced. This 16 hourbreak-in-periodmay be increased or decreased by mutual agreement with the employee(s) involved. The operator will initial and date the procedure which will indicate his understanding of it. All employees are required to adhere to the standard operating procedure for the purpose of determining a new or revised piecework rate.
12
Article V - Wages - Confd,
It is understood that new or revised rates shall be based on time studies taken under normal conditions, and not under any specially created circumstances. Insuring that the equipment is working properly and that sufficient stock is available to complete the study shall not be construed as specially created circumstances. It is the obligation of the operator being studied to bring to the attention of the Industrial Engineer during the study any conditions which he believes not to be normal in writing through the steward.
Following the time study and after the study has been broken down, a pre-posting discussion will be held amona Union Time Study Engineer and/or his designee, the employee(s) who was studied, the Industrial Engineers involved, and other appropriate Company and/or Union representatives to explain the result of the study and the proposed rate. If at this time, any questions of quality are raised, they will be resolved. The Union Time Study Engineer shall be furnished copies of spread sheets and standard data sheets.
in the case of revised rates, tine employee(s) on the operation(s) affected may at the request of the employee(s) involved continue to be paid under the old rate(s) under the following conditions:
When the revised rate(s) are brought an the floor, the employee(s) will try them while producing and being compensated under the old rate(s), using the revised rate(s) for comparative purposes. It is mutually recognized that it would be in the best interest of the employee(s) and the Company to try the
13
Article V - Wages - Cont'd,
revised rates under those conditions when earnings and production are both proteciea. The employee(s) during this time, will inform Industrial Engineering of any problem areas in the revised rate(s). The employee(s) and Industrial Engineering will work together in tying to resolve these problems in a manner agreeable to both parties. When this is accomplished, the new rate(s) will go into effect and thfc'i* rate(s) mil foe cancelled. In the event there remains unsolved problems with the rate(s) and no solution appears likely, the new rate(s) will be officially issued and as of that date, all provisions of the Collective Labour Agreement and its supplements become effective. New or revised rates shall become effective at the start of the next shift fojlswjng posting.
(5) New or revised rates shall be subject to protest for ten (10) production days after which they shall be considered established. If the rates are not satisfactory within the ten (10) production day period, upon written request they shall be subject to review and any adjustment shall be retroactive to the effective date of the protested rate. If the rates are protested, the Union Time Study Engineer shall have the right to observe the operation in dispute and to examine the data and information in the Company's files pertaining thereto for the purpose cf determining a proper rate. If this observation and examination does not resolve the rate dispute, the Union Time Study Engineer and the Company Industrial Engineer involved shall proceed with a joint time study cf the operation in dispute for the purpose of determining a proper rate.
14
Article V - Wages - Cont’d.
When production on new or revised protested rates is so limited that the requirements of a ten (10) production day period cannot be met within a ninety (90) calendar day period, the Union may request a review of the rate, or if the Company withdraws the product from production the employees affected will be paid in accordance with Clause 5.10 (c).
(c)	In the event the Union requests a review under Clause 5.10 (b) on a pieceworker group bonus rate before\\ 'v&wm&b'&iaWinStreicsAhe Company withdraws the product from production before the rate becomes established, the employee(s) affected will be paid on the basis of one hundred (100) percent of E.I.E. for all time worked on the product, or the earnings on the rate involved whichever is higher.
It will be the practice for the Company Time Study Man to contact the Steward or Union Time Study Engineer in the department, giving him a brief outline of what study is to be made in the department.
An incentive worker temporarily transferred at the request of the Company while his reaular work is available will be paid 105% of his EIE or-the rate of the job transferred to or his A.H.E. whichever is the higher. An hourly rated employee so transferred will be paid his regular rate or the rate of the job transferred to, whichever is the higher. An emplovqe .requested to perform experimental work will be paid 105% of his EIE or his A.H.E., whichever is higher.
The allowances under this clause will apply when individual operators or crews are involved in training employees who are other than their own replacements. Training of an employee's own replacement is covered under Section 5.23.
15
Article V -Wages- Cont’d,
All the above allowances will be paid only if the employee makes satisfactory effort on the temporary job.
5.13	Where an employee is advised by the supervisor or foreman, after having worked four (4) hours or more on his regular shift, that there is no further work available on his operation or group of operations for the balance of the shift, the employee may elect to go home or accept another job assignment at the prevailing rate of the job assigned for the four (4) hours or less in the remainder of the shift.
5.14	An incentive operator will be paid for the following conditions occurring within his shift when such a condition exists for longer than .1 hour by clock punch.
1.	Ninety percent (90%) of the operator's A.H.E. or 95% of E.I.E., whichever is higher, will be paid for the following conditions:
(a)	Mechanical downtime (including preventive
maintenance).
(b)	While awaiting stock, liners, etc.
2.	Ninety-five percent (95%) of the operator's A.H.E. will be paid for the following conditions:
(a)	While working with malfunctioning equip-
ment.
(b)	While working with defective stock.
(c)	While following a prescribed nonstandard
procedure.
(d)	While working on an operation which is
normally rated but on which rates have not been set or on which established rates have been cancelled.
16
Article V - Wages - Confd.
All of the above allowances will be paid only if the employee makes satisfactory effort on the job.
5.15	If an employee reports for work at his regular scheduled time and there is not four hours work available for him on his regular job, or if he works less than four hours on his regular job, he will be given either four hours work at some other job at the rate of the job assigned, or his E.I.E., whichever is higher, or four hours pay at his day work rate or his E.I.E. if an incentive worker, unless he has received two hours prior notification not to report to work. If the Company elects to give the employee four hours pay as aforesaid, the employee will be permitted to leave the plant at once. This report-in pay provision does not apply if there is no work because of power failure, breakage of major equipment (Banbury unit, Calender unit), catastrophe, violation of 3.01, or where the employee failed to keep his correct telephone number on file with his supervisor, or cannot be reached by telephone. Report in pay will be calculated at the applicable rate of pay for the day involved.
5.16	Shift premium will be paid as follows:
For all hours worked on the scheduled swing shift - $.29 per hour.
For all hours worked on the scheduled graveyard shift - $.32 per hour.
In calculating overtime payment, the shift premium will not be included.
5.17	All employees shall be paid weekly and the employees working on the night shift will receive their wages on pay day before leaving the plant.
'In the event a day shift employee is released from work
17
Article V - Wages • Cont'd,
as a result of lack of production on a normal pay day, and he requests that he be paid before leaving the plant, every reasonable effort will be made to comply with this request. The employee shall not be entitled to pay for the time spent waiting on his cheque."
5.18	If an employee is injured in the factory, or on Company property, if the injury would be covered under the Workers' Compensation Act, and as a result of such injury loses time from the shift on which it occurred, he will be paid for such lost time, provided:
(a)	He reports such injury to his supervisor or the plant nurse, providing a plant nurse is employed, as soon as possible after its occurrence; and
(b)	He immediately seeks medical attention for such injury;and
(c)	He is excused for the balance of the shift by his supervisor, a doctor of medicine, or a registered nurse on duty in the emergency room of a Brantford hospital.
Payment for time lost under the circumstances described above will be made at E.I.E. in the case of an incentive worker or at his hourly rate in the case of a day worker.
5.19	Standard operational procedures provided by the Industrial Engineering Department will be made available in each Department. All employees are required to adhere to the standard operational procedures.
5.20	New or modified equipment (taken out of production), or a new product, will be released for regular production on a form and a copy of the
18
Article V - Wages - Cont’d,
release will be given to the Local Union Time Study Engineer.
5.21	An employee will be paid for time lost on his operation if he is called away from same by the employer. In the case of a qualified incentive worker such payment will be made at 95% of A.H.E. or E.I.E., whichever is greater, or at attained progression rate for a day worker or a nonqualified incentive worker. In disciplinary matters the 95% of A H E payment will not apply. Up to a maximum of one (1) hour of pay at straight time will be paid for time spent by employees taking tests required by the Company outside regular working hours. Payment will be made as set forth previously in this clause.
5.22	Changes in established piecework rates or standards from standard data will be made within seven (7) working days following a change in job content, unless otherwise mutually agreed. It is understood that where an employee increases his efficiency through his own skill and effort, it shall not be interpreted as being a change in job content,
provided he follows the standard operational procedure and maintains quality standards.
5.23	(a) An inexperienced employee working in an experienced incentive crew operation will be paid his job rate or his incentive crew earnings, whichever is the higher, during the training period.
(b)	An experienced crew working with an inexperienced crew member will be paid their E.I.E. until such time that the total crew earnings exceed E.I.E. for thirty (30) hours, at which time the full operating crew will be classified as experienced and the E.I.E. allowance for experienced members will be discontinued.
19
Article V - Wages - Confd.
(c)	An experienced incentive employee assigned to train an inexperienced employee will be paid his E.I.E. or the incentive earnings of the operation, whichever is higher, until such time as the previously inexperienced employee is removed from direct training with the experienced employee.
(d)	An experienced employee required by the company to be trained on unfamiliar methods or equipment within his classification will be paid E.I.E. during such training periods.
(e)	The training guarantee rate for a new employee in progression will be his attained progression rate. Such guarantee for an employee who has completed his progression will be the job rate of the operation on which he is training. In each of the above cases, an employee will be paid his incentive earnings f they are higher than his training guarantee rate, provided he is working on his own. If he is working with a trainer, he will be paid the incentive earnings which are in excess of the trainers earnings, or his guaranteed rate, whichever is higher.
5.24	Employees’ timecards shall be turned in daily at the end of the shift. If a foreman believes that a timecard has been made out incorrectly, the timecard will be returned to the employee. The foreman, employee and shift steward will make a reasonable effort to settle any differences. If no satisfactory determination of the point is made by the end of the employee's next shift the timecard shall be cleared through the Payroll Department on the basis of the foreman's interpretation of correctness. If the point is still in dispute the employee will make out a duplicate card and it may be processed through the regular grievance procedure.
20
Article V - Wages - Confd.
5.25	A new employee will progress from the starting rate to the job rate of his classification in increments of five cents ($.05) per hour per week if employed in an incentive classification.
A new employee will progress from the starting rate to the job rate of his classification in increments often cents ($.10) per hour per week if employed in an hourly rated classification.
An employee in progression whose job is incentive rated, will be guaranteed his progression rate until such time as he has established an active E.I.E. on the job, at which time he will be considered qualified on that job.
5.25	In order to be eligible for payment under the guarantee provisions of this Agreement, an employee must be qualified in the dassification(s) where such guarantees may be claimed except where covered elsewhere in this Agreement.
(a)	In order to establish his qualifications in a given incentive classification, an employee must have earned or exceeded E.I.E. on rates in that classification for a minimum of thirty accumulative hours within a reasonable training period.
If, after having established his qualifications in a given classification, an employee's earnings on incentive rates in such classification average less than job rate for a period of two consecutive weeks, his guarantee rate will be adjusted to job rate and he must re-establish his qualifications in the manner described above.
(b)	An employee who has established (or re-established) and has continued to maintain his
21
Article V - Wages - Cont’d.
qualifications in a given classification will be said to have earned an active E.I.E. for that classification and will carry that active E.I.E. until such time as he has not performed satisfactorily in that classification for a period of six months.
(c)	An employee(s) assigned to an incentive classification (hired, bid, or displaced) in which he has had prior satisfactory service within the six (6) month period immediately prior to his reassignment to this classification will be considered an experienced employee(s) for purposes of guarantee payments under Clause 5.14 of this agreement.
(d)	While working on an operation where there are no established incentive rates in effect, an experienced incentive employee(s) will be considered fully experienced for the purpose of guaranteepayments provided the employee(s) held an active E.I.E. within the past six (6) months.
(e)	Employees who have not been able to satisfy the requirement of Article V, Clause 5.26 because of job conditions beyond their control, will be paid for guarantee purposes at their job rate for two (2) weeks; then at ninety (90) percent of E.I.E. for four (4) weeks after which they will be considered fully experienced.
5.27 Interim Wages Increases (In April 1980-April 1983 Contract)
1.	The amount of interim increase shall be calculated and recalculated as provided below on the basis of the Consumer Price Index published by Statistics Canada (1971=100) and hereinafter referred to as the C.P.I.
22
Article V - Wages - Confd.
2.	First Year of Agreement
(a)	The base for calculation" - the average C.P.l. for the months of February 1980, March 1980 and April 1980.
(b)	The first adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay period commencing July 27, 1980. It will reflect one cent ($.01) per hour for each full .4 points that the average C.P.l. for the months of April 1980, May 1980 and June 1980 exceeds the base for calculation.
(c)	A second adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay period commencing on October 26, 1980. S will reflect one cent ($.01) per hour for each full .4 points that the average C.P.l. for the months of July 1980, August 1980 and $eptember 1980 exceeds the base for calculation.
(d)	A third adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay period commencing January 25, 1981. It will reflect one cent ($.01) per hour for each full .4 points that the average C.P.l. for the months of October 1980, November 1980 and December 1980 exceeds the base for calculation.
(e)	A fourth adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay period commencing April 26, 1981. It will reflect one cent ($.01 ) per hour for each full .4 points that the average C.P.l. for the months of January 1981, February 1981 and March 1981 exceeds the base for calculation.
23
Article V - Wages- Cont’d.
3.	Second Year of Agreement
(a)	The base for calculation” - the average C.P.I. for the months of February 1981, March 1981 and April 1981.
(b)	The first adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay period commencing July 26, 1981. It will reflectone cent($.01) per hour for each full .4 points that the average C.P.I. for the months of April 1981, May 1981 and June 1981 exceeds the base for calculation.
(c)	A second adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay period commencing October 25, 1981. It will reflect one cent ($.01) per hour for each full .4 points that the average C.P.I. for the months of July
1981,	August 1981 and September 1981 exceeds the base for calculation.
(d)	A third adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay period commencing January 31, 1982. It will reflectone cent ($.01) per hour for each full .4 points that the average C.P.I. for the months of October 1981, November 1981 and December 1981 exceeds the base for calculation.
(e)	A fourth adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay period commencing April 25,1982. It will reflectone cent ($.01) per hour for each full .4 points that the average C.P.I. for the months of January
1982,	February 1982 and March 1982 exceeds the base for calculation.
24
Article V - Wages - Conf d.
4.	Third Year of Agreement
(a)	“The base for calculation" - the average C.P.I. for the months of February 1982, March 1982 and April 1982.
(b)	The first adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay period commencing July 25, 1982. It will reflect one cent ($.01) per hourfor each full .4 points that the average C.P.I. for the months of April 1982, May 1982 and June 1982 exceeds the base for calculation.
(c)	A second adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay period commencing October 31, 1982. It will reflect one cent ($.01) per hourfor each full .4 points that the average C.P.I. for the months of July 1982, August 1982 and September 1982 exceeds the base for calculation.
(d)	A third adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay period commencing January 30, 1983. It will reflect one cent ($.01) per hour for each full .4 points that the average C.P.I. for the months of October 1982, November 1982 and December 1982 exceeds the base for calculation.
5.	The interim increase will be considered as earnings but will be boxed separately from other wage payments on the employee's time card.
Article V - Wages - Cont’d.
6.	In the event Statistics Canada does not issue the appropriate Consumer Price Index on or before the date on which an adjustment is to be calculated, any adjustment required will be made at the beginning of the first pay period following receipt of the index.
7.	No adjustments, retroactive or otherwise, shall be made due to any revision which may later be made in any published Consumer Price Index by Statistics Canada.
8.	Continuation of the interim adjustments is dependent upon the availability of the official Statistics Canada Consumers Price Index calculated on the same basis and in the same form as that published for April 1980.
9.	Each adjustment specified in the Interim Wage Increase Formula will replace the previous adjustment, if any, in its entirety except the fourth adjustment in the first year of the agreement will be carried over throughout the second and third year of the Agreement and the fourth adjustment in the second year of the Agreement will be carried over throughout the third year of the Agreement.
10.	All of the above provisions in Article 5.27 are not applicable during the life of this Agreement.
5.28 Classification and wage rates are attached hereto as Schedule "A" and form part of this Agreement.
26
ARTICLE VI
Overtime
6.01	Time worked outside cf an employee's regular eight hour shift in any 24 hour periodfrom the time he is required to start work will be paid for at the rate of time and one-half. Time and one-half will be paid for Saturday work.
6.02	Overtime does not include:
(a)	Time worked by employees substituting for another at their own request.
(b)	A change of an employee's working hours at his own request in writing.
(c)	In no case will overtime be pyramided.
6.03	Employees, after two weeks of service. shall be paid an amount equal to one standard shift foreach of the following eleven holidays:
New Year's Day Good Friday Victoria Day Canada Day Civic Holiday Labour Day Thanksgiving Day Children's Christmas Party Christmas Day
Two Floaters to be designated for each year.
The actual dates on which the foregoing holidays will be observed are set out in Supplemental Agreement No. 2.
27
Article VI - Overtime - Cont'd,
6.04	If a holiday falls on Sunday, the next following work day shall be observed as a holiday. If a holiday falls on a Saturday, the Company may, at its option in each such case, elect to celebrate the holiday on the Saturday on which it falls or the Friday immediately preceding, or the Monday next following such Saturday. If a holiday falls within a period when an employee :tO'‘1f<?aoa*L:rc/ri, he wii'Mdve ilte’choice of (1) receiving holiday pay without taking the holiday, or (2) taking the holiday on either his last shift prior to his vacation or the first shift after his vacation. However, this choice must be declared to his supervisor at least two full calendar weeks prior to the date on which suchvacation is scheduled to begin. In departments where a seven-day schedule is required and/or in the maintenance departments, the minimum of employees necessary to keep the factory in operating condition shall work on the holiday. From time to time, emergencies may arise which will make it necessary for certain employees to work on a holiday in order that other employees will not suffer lost time.
When an employee works on a holiday, he will be paid double his regular rate for the hours actually worked plus holiday pay, if he qualifies under the provisions of .Vtfe Article.
Employees in incentive classifications will be paid holiday pay based on his E.I.E. Employees in day work classifications will be paid holiday pay based on his current hourly rate. Employees in split job classification where the regular job consists of part time incentive and part time day work operations, will be paid daily holiday pay based on the E.I.E. cf the incentive part of classification. Only the employee actually at work for at least seven (7) hours on his last regub.^teiti.iIffrtsbiP Jisfncq and sUeasi seven
28
Article VI - Overtime - Cont'd.
(7) hours on his first scheduled shift following the holiday, shall receive holiday pay, except where the employee is on vacation, or is absent due to death in the immediate family as per Clause 10.02, personal injury, proven unavoidable illness, jury duty, or excused by supervision.
At. w)t^roy^HbjUl.rf^Rft'R,4,:\!ir;tav7r}a\'/ white. <3ff. work due to a Plant accident. His holiday pay will be based on Incentive or Day Work classification under whichever classification the employee is listed at time of the Plant accident.
Double time shall be paid for all authorized work performed on Sunday (12 midnight Saturday night to 12 midnight Sunday night), except the Graveyard and Afternoon shifts will be paid double time as follows: Sunday for a Graveyard Shift employee will start Saturday night at the same time his regular Graveyard Shift starts during the week. Sunday for an Afternoon Shift employee will end Sunday night at the same time his regular Afternoon Shift ends during the week.
If an employee is called into the plant for work during hours outside his regularly scheduled shift, and his response to such call results in his having to make an unscheduled additional trip to the plant, he shall receive a minimum of three hours of pay as a result of such trip. The minimum rate of pay to which the employee may be entitled under this provision will be his E.I.E. if an incentive worker or his regular hourly rate if a day worker. Hours paid for under this clause will be subject to the premium payment provisions found elsewhere in Article VI of this Agreement. “Upon resolution of the emergency, the employee will be released from work’.
29
Article VI - Overtime - Cont'd.
This clause does not apply when an employee comes to work early and works into his regular shift.
Employees who work overtime shall not be required to take time off to offset such overtime.
. 6.08 (a) E.rqnta)/.pes will be notified forty hours i n adVa rice'TT TaqLriTdcTtJy1 hTe'trunqrjny To work overtime, except in emergencies.
(b) In the Maintenance Department the weekend work schedule will be posted no later than 1:00 p.m. on Thursday of the week involved. This schedule will cover the requirements which can be foreseen prior to such Thursday; requirements which arise subsequent to the determination of the afore-mentioned schedule will be treated as emergencies under the provisions of paragraph (a) of this clause 6.08.
Applicable guarantees will be paid during time worked on Saturday and Sunday.
6.10 (a) In connection with the administration of any agreed upon overtime agreement, if an employee is not offered overtime he was entitled to due to an error, the following procedure will be used.
1*. Up to a sixteen (16) hour difference
in hours between the highest and lowest employee in a classification may be accumulated before a violation can be claimed under this provision.
2. Violations as defined under No 1 above will require makinn the affected individual whole.
3* Overtime hours Paid for under No 2 above will be added to the accumulated overtime hours of the individualreceivino payment.
30
Article VII - Vacations - Cont'd.
(3)	Five years but less than fifteen year's service • three weeks vacation with pay at 6% of total earnings for the previous calendar year.
(4)	Fifteen years but less than twenty years service - four weeks vacation with pay at 8% of total earnings for the previous calendar year.
(5)	Twenty years or more of service • five weeks vacation with pay at 10% of total earnings for the previous calendar year.
(8) Twenty-Five years or more of service -six weeks vacation with pay at 12% of total earnings for the previous calendar year.
Employees hired after May 1. 1991 will follow the same vacation schedule as above except they will have a maximum of four (4) weeks entitlement. This shall apply during the term of this aareemenL
Total earnings include regular and overtime pay, vacation and holiday pay, Ontario Health Insurance Plan premiums which are paid by the Company on behalf of the employee, short work week benefits paid under the Supplemental Unemployment Benefits Plan, Workers’ Compensation Payments for lost time, and bonuses for the twelve month period prior to January of the current year. In the vacation year of 1979 and thereafter, weekly indemnity payments made in the preceding year will be included in total earnings.
The value of Ontario Health Insurance premiums will be
the same as those that were in effect during December 1989. Beginning in January 1991. an employee will be credited on a monthly basis with the applicable single or family premium rate for the purpose of vacation nav calculation at year end. The employee’s status will be determined each month bv his/her status then in effect under the extended health care nrooram.
32
Article VII - Vacations - Cont'd.
For the purpose of calculating 1991 vacation pay, earnings received in 1990 will be adjusted upward bv the annual value of Ontario Health Insurance premiums at the annlicahln sinnls or family rate as determined bv the employee's status under the extended health care program in December 1990.
An employee whose employment with the Company is severed, shall receive any vacation pay then due him under the provisions of sections 7.01 and 7.02, and in addition shall receive vacation pay based on the appropriate percentage according to his service (as provided in section 7.01) cf his total earnings (as defined in section 7.02 but applied to the current year only) received in the year in which his employment is severed.
An employee whose employment with the Company is severed and who has less than one year of service at the time of such severance, will be paid vacation pay in accordance with the Employment Standards Act of the Province of Ontario.
Vacation will be taken at any time during the calendar year, at such times as is most convenient to the Company, but every reasonable effort shall be made to schedule vacations at times suitable to the employees.
’Mt'atiy'we1irsinl5iU9eeo"«tri'To"affe'\a*iiVii«tj*iti Iwu T
more weeks of vacation will be given the opportunity of taking two of these weeks together.
A vacation shutdown may be scheduled between July 1 st and August 31 st.
Employees off on weekly indemnity or Workers' Compensation during previously scheduled vacation
33
Article VII - Vacations - Cont'd.
time will be allowed to submit a request for alternative time off under an unpaid leave of absence in accordance with the provisions of the existing guidelines for vacation scheduling.
When an employee of one or more years seniority, has been unable to work for a portion of the preceding vacation year, because of verified sickness or injury, and for that reason only, his vacation pay, calculated in accordance with Section 7.01, is less than $300.00 per week, the vacation pay to which he is entitled will be increased to the above minimum, provided he has worked a wipimum.'jf. three months in the vacation year.
Vacation payments will be made as vacations are taken, and in amounts corresponding to the amount of vacation being taken at a given time.
ARTICLE VIII
Grievance Procedure
The Union Bargaining Committee shall consist of five members. The composition of said committee shall be as follows:
Tbfe Presidentavr1 Vice-Rtasufent and three Divisional Chairmen.
(a)	For the purpose of adjusting grievances, the Bargaining Unit shall consist of three divisions one of which encompasses all Bargaining Unit employees at the Iroquois Street facility,
34
Article VIII - Grievance Procedure - Cont'd.
(exclusive of Skilled Trades), a second encompassing all Bargaining Llni*rfinpibyrajs?st dh? .Henry Street facility exclusive of Skilled Trades, and a third which consists of the Skilled Trades. Each such division will have a Divisional Chairman designated by the Union.
The Union shall be permitted to appoint Stewards to a maximum number of one (1) for each twenty (20)	in tits Bargaining
Unit. Adjustments to the number of Stewards may be made once each three (3) months based on the number of employees appearing on the most recent seniority list. The Union must provide the Company with a complete list of appointed Stewards detailing the area(s) each is responsible to represent and must keep the list up to date at all times.
Any employee with a grievance shall discuss it with his supervisor and give the supervisor twenty-four (24) hours, (the 24 hours shall be extended to a maximum of 48 hours if requested by the supervisor), in which to adjust or reject the grievance. I f the employee i not satisfied with the answer or he wishes, to-take the grievance through the grievance procedure, it shall be dealt with as follows:
Step 1 - The employee’s Steward or in his absence an alternate Steward will first discuss the matter with the employee’s supervisor and will give the supervisor’ 48 hours in which to adjust or reject h e grievance. If the steward feels that the employee’s presence is necessary to the resolution of the grievance, the employee may be present at this meeting.
Step 2 - Failing settlement at Step 1 then within five (5) woiking days from the Step 1 answer the grievance shall be reduced to writing, signed by
35
Article VIII - Grievance Procedure- Cont’d.
the employee and Steward, dated and presented by the Divisional Chairman to the employee's Department Manager. The written grievance should state the relief desired in settlement of the grievance. (It is understood that the granting by the Company of the relief requested in the grievance. shall resolve the grievance.)
The Department Manager shall hold a meeting within five (5) working days of receiving the grievance, with the Divisional Chairman, Steward and Supervisor, where the grievance will be reviewed.
Within two (2) working days of such meeting, the Department Manager will provide the Divisional Chairman with a written answer to the grievance.
Step 3 - Failing settlement at Step 2, the grievance shall be submitted by the Union President or his designee within five (5) working days of the Step 2 answerto the Industrial Relations Manager or his designee. The grievance shall be processed to the next regular meeting of the Union-Management Committee. Such Committee shall meet on the 1st and 3rd Wednesdays of each month from 1:00 p.m. to 3:00 p.m. and shall be composed of the Union President, Vice-president, the appropriate Divisional Chairman, the Manufacturing Manager and the IndustrialRelations Manager.
The Manufacturing Manager shall render a written decision within five (5) working days after the meeting.
It is understood that at Step 3, the Company may bring in persons necessary to assist in settlement of the grievance and the Union may bring in appropriate Local and International Union officials who are
36
Article VIII - Grievance Procedure - Cont’d.
necessary to settle the grievance. It is further understood that the time limits referred to herein exclude Saturday, Sunday and holidays. Extension of these time limits may be granted upon written request by either party.
Step 4 - Either party may, within thirty (30) full working days of the date of the Company’s Step 3 answer, request that any difference as hereinbefore provided be submitted to arbitration, it shall make such request in writing addressed to the other party to this Agreement, and at the same time nominate an arbitrator. Within ten full working days thereafter the other party shall nominate an arbitrator and notify the other party. The Company and the Union shall attempt to select by agreement a chairman of the arbitration board. If they are unable to agree on such a chairman within a further period of three working days they will draw a name from the agreed upon list of arbitrators. The list will be kept current by an annual review by the parties.
The parties may, by mutual agreement on a case by case basis, use a single arbitrator in lieu of the three man board provided herein.
8.04	No person shall be appointed as an arbitrator who has been involved in an attempt to negotiate or settle the grievance.
8.05	The arbitration board shall not have jurisdiction to amend or add to any of the provisions of this Agreement, or to substitute any new provisions in lieu thereof, nor to give any decision inconsistent with the terms and provisions of this Agreement. No matter may be submitted to arbitration which has not been properly carried through all previous steps of the Grievance Procedure.
37
Article VIII - Grievance Procedure - Cont'd.
The proceedings of the arbitration board will be expedited by the parties hereto, and the decision of the majority of such board will be final and binding upon the parties thereto.
Each of the parties hereto will bear the expenses of the arbitrator appointed by it and the parties will jointly bear the expenses of the chairman of the arbitration board.
Any and all time limits under this agreement may be extended by mutual agreement of the parties in writing.
In disciplinary cases, either party has the right to request the presence of the aggrieved employee at Step 3 of the Grievance Procedure.
If a senior employee is discharged or suspended and he feels that he has been unjustly dealt with, he shall within five working days notify the Company and the Union in writing. It shall then constitute a grievance and shall be dealt with under the Grievance Procedure, starting at Step 3. If, subsequently, it is settled in favour of the employee, he shall be reinstated in his former position and shall be compensated for all time lost at his E.I.E. if on an incentive job or his day work rate if on a day work job, less pay for any penalty time decided upon, and less any pay he has received during the time he was off. Employees discharged or suspended shall have the privilege of discussing their position with the Steward before leaving the plant.
In the event that an employee is “suspended pending investigation'' the Company will waive the five (5) working day time limit for filing a grievance specified above.
38
Article VIII - Grievance Procedure- Cont’d
The above time limit will be deemed to start at the point in time that the final decision regarding formal suspension or discharge is rendered and communicated to the employee.
8.11	A Steward, or Union Time Study Engineer, or the Local President, or a member of the bargaining committee, or if necessary, any combination of two of these individuals will be provided an opportunity to investigate a grievance within the last half hour of his shift on which a request to do so is made to his supervisor. However, if a Steward cannot be excused without an undue loss of production an alternate Steward will be excused for such purpose.
If a grievance involves health and safety the Union Safety Representative may also be excused along with the Steward. If a grievance involves incentive rates the Local Union Time Study Engineer may participate in the investigation along with the Steward. Union representatives will be paid by the Union for time spent away from work under this provision.
8.12	Once a grievance has been submitted to the Bargaining Committee, it shall be settled only through the Bargaining Committee or with the consent and approval of the Committee.
8.13	No grievance, verbal or written, withdrawn or dropped by the Union or granted by the Company prior to Step 3 of the Grievance Procedure will have any precedent value. A grievance may be settled by the Company and the Union during Step 3 of the Grievance Procedure, or at any time after Step 3 but prior to arbitration, with no precedent value, provided both the Company and the Union agree in writing.
39
Article VIII - Grievance Procedure - Cont’d.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, grievances protesting newor revised incentive rates will be filed at Step 3 of the grievance procedure and will be processed in the following manner:
(a)	The grievance will be assigned to the Local Union Time Study Engineer and the Company Time StudvJl^rartmftoJjaodJ’.TOaef.tng will be held within ten (10) working days from the date the grievance is filed for a thorough review of the problem. During this review, either party upon request will be granted a joint Company-Union time study.
If the grievance is not resolved in the above manner, the Union may submit the dispute to a review by the Company Time Study Department and a full time URW International Time Study Engineer. During this review, upon request, either party will be granted a joint Company/Union time study.
(c)	At any stage during this procedure, if the Local or International Union Time Study Engineer and the Company Time Study Engineer agree in writing that the other's rate is correct, then the matter will be settled on that basis.
If the matter is not resolved in the manner described above, either party may request that the dispute be submitted to arbitration. Within twenty (20) working days of such request, the parties shall attempt to select by agreement an arbitrator to hear the matter. If they are unable to agree upon an arbitrator, then within ten (10) working days thereafter each party shall select a nominee for the purpose of naming an arbitrator to hear the dispute. If they are unable to agree upon an arbitrator they must then request the Minister of Labour for the Province of
40
ARTICLE IX
Seniority
9.01 New employees will be considered probationary until they have been employed for three months. Seniority shall then be credited as of the date of first entry into the service of the Company. At the Company’s discretion, the employee's probationary period may be extended for a one f1> month period SUbiect to notification to the Union.
An employee's probationary period may be extended by the amount of time spent on any modified work assignment(s) recommended by a physician and/or by the entire length of any period of absence when the period of absence exceeds five (5) consecutive working days. The Union President will be notified in writing when an employee's probationary period is being extended and the date to which the extension will apply.
(a) An employee who has completed his probationary period will be known as a senior employee.
Seniority lists shall be posted in each Department of the plant. The Union shall be furnished with a copy of the Seniority list every three months.
(a) When a vacancy occurs, it shall be posted in the Plant where it exists for a period of two working days. Only senior employees within such Plant will be eligible to bid on this vacancy and the job will be awarded to the most senior bidder who is capable of doing the job within a reasonable training period. An employee on light duty because of a temporary medical restriction who signs a job posting
42
Article IX - Seniority - Confd.
must be medically capable of beginning training within ten (10) calendar days of accepting the bid in order to be the successful bidder. If additional medical information is required by the Company this time limit will be extended accordingly if the information is not received back within the ten (10) day time limit. Notwithstanding the foregoing, vacancies in the Warehouse, Laboratory, Skilled Trades Division and in the Transport Driver classification will be posted in all Plants with the understanding that the qualificationrequirements contained in the appropriate Supplemental Agreements must apply. For the purpose 'of this clause, the Warehouse shall be deemed to be a part of the Plant containing the Belt and Millroom Departments.
Within forty-eight (48) hours of the removal of the bid, the employees who signed the bid will be contacted regarding acceptance or rejection of the job. Contact will not be further required after the job has been awarded.
(b)	When an employee is advised that he is entitled to a job under this provision, he must immediately accept or reject the job, and his failure to accept or reject the job immediately shall be considered as a rejection of the job. (At any time prior to the bid being removed from the posting, the employee may remove his name from the bid by having a supervisor initial his name removed.) An employee who is offered the job. and who either accepts or rejects it, will not be permitted to bid on another opening for twelve (12) months. The foregoing time limits will not apply to an individual who wishes to bid on another job within his classification on his shift or on another shift. A notice will be posted indicating the successful bidder on the job.
43
Article IX - Seniority - Confd,
The vacancy thus created will be posted as a new opening.
The employee affected by the return of the employee who failed to qualify shall be returned to his previous job and his bidding rights will be restored. If such job has been eliminated the affected employee will be treated as a displaced employee and will place himself in accordance with the terms of Clause
9.06	ofthe Collective LabourAgreement.
2. In the event that an employee is awarded a job through displacement or recall from layoff and fails to qualify on that job within a reasonable training period he shall be treated as a displaced employee and will place himself in accordance with the terms of Clause
9.06	ofthe Collective LabourAgreement.
3. An employee(s) who has qualified in his job and who subsequently becomes unable to perform that job because of substantiated chronic medical reasons shall be treated as a displaced employee and wilt place himself in accordance with the terms of Clause
9.06	of the Collective Labour Agreement. If the failure to qualify is caused by a serious injury or impairment from his employment with the Company and results in permanent disability, the terms of Clause 9.14 ofthe Collective Labour Agreement shall take precedence.
(f) No vacancy will be posted if there
46
Article IX - Seniority - Cont'd,
are employees in displaced status requiring placement as provided in 9.06 (e) (See Clause 9.16, Paragraph (b) for meaning cf the word "displaced".)
9.04	Notwithstanding the provisions of Clause 9.01 and 9.03 (a) probationary unclassified employees with at least 30 days of service will be allowed to sign for a posted classified vacancy in their respective departments, and in the event no senior employee has bid for and accepted the job, it will he awarded to the probationary bidder who has the greatest service. If a probationary employee is awarded a job under this provision, he will accept the bidding restrictions contained in Clause 9.03 (b).
Nothing in this clause is to be construed as granting seniority to an employee prior to the completion of his probationary period.
9.05	(a) For the purpose of seniority application, the Bargaining Unit will be divided into three (3) seniority groups:
1.	Maintenance
2.	Lab
3.	Other departments in the Bargaining Unit which at present are: Belts, Hose, Material preparation, and Warehouse.
9.06	(a) When it becomes necessary to reduce the work force, probationary employees shall first be laid off and then a sufficient number of senior employees shall be laid off, in reverse order cf seniority, to reduce the work force to its proper number.
(b)	When the strength cf a department is to be reduced, the appropriate number of employees will be removed (by layoff or displacement) so that the required number of employees remain.
47
Article DC - Seniority - Confd.
(c)	When the strength of a classification is to be reduced, the appropriate number of employees wtB be removed, (by layoff or displacement) so that the required number of employees remained) An employee displaced from his classification but remaining in his department wit be placed as Mows, (unless taking step (2) would place him on a less preferred shift in which case he may slap step (2). (For the purpose of this paragraph Day Shift is the most preferred. Graveyard shift is the second preference and Swing is the least preferred.) If an employee volunteers to go to a less preferred shift he wN fll an avaiable opening or take a job in his classification n accordance with his seniority.
1.	Notwithstanding the provisions of Clause 9.03 (a). i a vacancy exists in the displaced employee’s department at the time of his displacement, which vacancy would otherwise be posted inder fee pro-visions of said Clause 9.03 (a), he w3 be given fie option of Mng such vacancy or placing himself under the procedure de-scitied elsewhere in this Clause 9.06 (d).
2.	Take a job in Nb department on which he has had satisfactory prior service, in accordance wkh his seniority, or faffing this
3L Take a job in an equal or Boner rated cfassilicalfan in Ms department at accordance wih his semorfty, or, faiting this
4. Take Hie job of the least senior employee in the department
(e) An employee displaced from his department will be given his choice of available openings in other departments in his senforiHy group
48
\rticle IX - Seniority - Confd.
1 accordance with his seniority, or, failing this
(f)	He will displace the employee with he least seniority in another seniority group providing le has adequate seniority and is capable of doing the Db within a trial period of two weeks, or, failing this
(g)	He will be laid off from the plant.
The term "Prior Satisfactory Service" is used in this Article shall mean:
1.	In the case of day work jobs, the employee has held the classification for three consecutive months during the most recent twelve month period prior to his claiming prior satisfactory service.
2.	In the case of incentive jobs, the employee carries an active E.I.E. in the classification where he claims prior satisfactory service, (i) Further, in the case of incentive jobs, the employee must have held such classi-fication on a full time basis.
(i) To determine what is meant by "equal or lower rated classification," E.I.E. will be used for incentive classifications and Job Rate for day work classifications.
fjt Notwithstanding t h e prececlha provisions of this Article IX. an-emolovee in the following classifications, which are Iona training jobs, shall not be subject to replacement bv another employee (havinn mnrp g?nii-n%) fnr layoff or recall unless the other employee has the nftcsRsarv prior satisfactow service to enable him to do the work satisfactorily:
49
Article IX - Seniority - Cont’d,
Calender Operator Banbury Operator Lead Extruder Operator Tuber/lnsulator Operator Twin Drum Builde
Should an employee be laid off out of seniority under
this clause__he would receive S.U.B. payments
starting the first full week of layoff. At such time as his &.U.l5 payments tosm A ssfraMfiteA bfe would be recalled consistent with his Plant seniority.
Where an employee has been displaced from his job due to a cut in production and such job is resumed again within a three month period from the day he is displaced, he will be offered such job before it can be declared vacant. If during said three-month period the employee bids and is granted another job he will forfeit his right to his former job.
Laid off senior employees will be recalled in accordance with their seniority before any new employees are hired.
In the event that ten (10) or more employees are to be recalled from layoff at the same time to the same plant or if a total of twenty (20) or more employees are to be recalled at the same time to more than one plant, the following procedure will be applied following the completion of any bid chains then in process:
(a) The provisions of Clause 9.03 (f) and 9.07 of this agreement shall be applied before final job vacancies are determined.
Subject to the application of (a) above, vacancies will be posted under the
50
Article IX - Seniority - Cont'd.
(a) Any employee presently in, or who has been in, what is now the Bargaining Unit, who transferred to a supervisory position or any position outside of the Bargaining Unit directly connected with the operation of the plant and who has oomnleted his probationary period in the Bargaining Unit, or what is now the Bargaining Unit, will continue to accumulate seniority for the time spent on such supawteray or other position. If such employee is transferred back into the Bargaining Unit, he shall be returned to the department in which he last held a Bargaining Unit job, and will then be placed, exercising all of his accumulated seniority, as "an employee displaced from his classification", underthe provisionsof 9.06 (d).
(b) On the first occasion an employee transfers from the Bargaining Unit to non-bargaining unit work after the effective date of this agreement, htfc shrill, retain and accumiMe •awinrity, for a pa■fod of up to six (6) months from the date he was transferred out of the Bargaining Unit after which time he will retain but not accumulate seniority.
On the second and subsequent occasions he transfers from the Bargaining Unit to non-bargaining unit work after the effective date of this agreement he will retain but not accumulate seniority.
If the Company elects to return any such employee to the Bargaining Unit, he shall be returned to the department in which he last held a Bargaining Unit job, and will then be placed, exercising all of his retained seniority, as "an employee displaced from his classification", underthe provisions of 9.06 (d).
(c)	In the application of Clause 9.06 (d)(3) as provided for in this Clause 9.13, the employee retucning to .ths. Bargaining Unit will be assumed to
53
Article IX - Seniority - Cont'd,
carry the classification rate, ("A", “B” or 'unclassified") which he carried at ?hetime of his transfer out or the Bargaining Unit.
Any employee who suffers a serious injury or impairment from his employment with the Company, which results in permanent disability, and he is unable to continue working on his own operation, the Company will endeavour to place him on a suitable job for which he is qualified and capable of performing, in accordance with his seniority; once so placed, seniority may be waived in case cf other employees displacing such employee. If superseniority is to be awarded pursuant to this section, the terms and conditions of the job placement shall be mutually agreed to in writing by the Company and the Union.
(a) An employee absent from work because of bodily injuries caused by accident or sickness and qualified to receive weekly sickness and accident benefits under the terms of the Health and Life Insurance Agreement in effect from time to time between the Company and Union, shall be entitled to accumulate seniority and service during the period cf his absence on the following basis:
A senior employee who has less than two (2) years continuous service with the Company will be entitled to accumulate seniority and service up to the maximum period he is entitled to receive weekly sickness and accident benefits.
(2) A senior employee who has two (2) years or more but less than ten (10) years of continuous service with the
54
Article IX - Seniority - Confd.
9.17	When employees are recalled from layoff, they will be given their choice of available openings in order of their seniority. If, in this process, an employee selects an A or B job, he cannot bid on another job for a period of six months. If he selects an unclassified job, he has immediate bidding rights.
9.18	An employee having at least six (6) months of seniority who is interested in being considered for a transfer from one department to another, may advise the Company on a form which may be obtained from the Production Office.
Such requests shall be kept on file in the Employee Relations Department. A copy of each request filed will be given to the employee and the Union. An employee shall not have more than one such request on file at any time. The Company will honour such request by seniority providing the request is on file within twenty-four (24) hours from the occurrence of the vacancy to be filled by selfrequest, and further providing the employee is capable of doing the job within a reasonable training period before hiring from the outside subject, however, to the restrictions contained in Paragraph (a), below:
A transfer effected under the provisions of this Clause 9.18 shall be known as "self-requested transfer".
If an employee accepts a self-requested transfer, he accepts with it the bidding restrictions found in Clause 9.03 (b).
The remaining vacancy may be filled in the following manner:
56
Article IX - Seniority - Cont’d,
The Company shall be permitted to transfer one bargaining unit employee provided he is agreeable, to fill the vacancy before hiring a new employee to fill the vacancy.
(a) An employee shall not be eligible for a self-requested transfer if:
(1)	He carries the bidding restrictions found in Clause 9.03 (b). (This does not preclude an employee’s filing a request pending the expiration of his bidding
.	restrictions.)
(2)	In the case of transfers to the Transport Driver Classification or to the Laboratory or Maintenance departments, he does not meet the qualifications set forth elss'whsra for entry into those departments.
If an employee declines to accept a self-requested transfer for which he is eligible, then his request which established such eligibility shall be voided and he cannot file another to replace it for a period of six months.
9.19	If an operation is transferred from one
department to another or from one shift to another, the emplwyi^',	operation immediately
prior to such transfer will be given the opportunity of transferring with it. Should this opportunity be declined, such employee(s) will be placed in accordance with the provisionsof Clause 9.06.
9.20	(a) Employees will be allowed to exercise their shift preference by seniority within their classification once each year under the following schedule:
57
Article IX - Seniority - Cont’d,
Employees will be given the opportunity to select their shift preference to be effective on the first Sunday following February 1st of each year during the life of the agreement.
On January 1st, of each year, the Company will make available a form, to be submitted by the employee no less than fifteen (15) days prior to the effective date of the shift preference change.
An employee displaced from his shift through the operation of this clause will remain in his classification and immediately exercise his opportunity for shift preference by seniority.
An employee when exercising shift preference will bump the junior employee in the classification on his preferred shift.
(b) In the event an employee is displaced under clause 9.06, his option to exercise shift preference will be restored and applied immediately within his existing or new job classification.
ARTICLE X
Leave f Absence
10.01	Seniority shall accumulate during any approved leave of absence.
10.02	In the event of the death of a member of an employee's family, the employee will be granted
58
Article X - Leave of Absence - Cont'd,
a leave of absence for a reasonable time and will be reimbursed for lost time at his E.I.E. if on an incentive job or day work rate i on a day work job up to a maximum of three (3)consecutive regular work days, one of which is the day of the funeral. The term "member of an employee's family” means a husband or wife, child or parent, parent-in-law, brother or sister, brother-in-law or sister-in-law, son-in-law or daughter-in-law, grandparents, great grandparents, grandchildren and great grandchildren, and grandparents and great grandparents of the spouse. To qualify the employee must attend the funeral.
For tine purposes of this Section, a stepparent or foster parent shall be considered as a parent and a stepson or daughter or foster son or daughter shall be considered as a son or daughter only where the stepparent or foster parent has taken the place of the natural parent in relations to such child and is not in receipt of any financial aid for the support of such child.
be granted to
employees for personal reasons for a period not to exceed three (3) months, upon application of the employee and approval of the Company, so long as the services of the employee are not required, and there are employees available in the plant capable of doing his work.
10.04 July Duty Pay - The Company agrees to pay an employee who serves as a juror in a legally constituted court the difference between his earnings as a yorat and his E.I.E.	■ ofay1 wot fL rate hewuld
have realized had he worked his scheduled shift. In order to be eligible for payment employees must notify their supervisor within twenty-four (24) hours after receipt of notice of selection for jury duty and must furnish a written statement from the appropriate
59
ArticleX - Leave of Absence - Cont’d.
public official showing the date and time served and the amount of pay received.
10.05	A senior employee elected or selected as a full time officer or representative of Local 733, the URCLPWA, CLC orOFL upon request in writing to the Company, will be granted a leave of absence for whatever time is necessary. Should he request reinstatementwithin 30 days after the termination cf the Union position, he will be reinstated in his former job. If his former job has been eliminated, he will be offered an available opening or have his seniority rights restored under Clause 9.06 (d).
10.06	A senior employee selected or elected to attend the convention of the International URCLPWA, CLC or OFL or for specific Union duties or Municipal elective duties will be granted a leave of absence upon application in writing at least one week priorto the day the leave starts. Not more than three employees at a time from Local 733 shall be off work for the purpose of attending the above convention, and the leave of absence shall not exceed three weeks. The Company will grant a leave of absence for up to five delegates elected to attend the District6 Council Convention of the URCLPWA. The Union will provide to the Com-pany at least two weeks notice in writing of such leave.
60
ARTICLE XI
Miscellaneous
Subject to the terms and conditions of this Labour Agreement, the operation of the plant and the direction of all the employees, including the making and enforcing of reasonable rules to assure orderly and efficient plant operations, the deter-mination of employee competency, the right to hire, to transfer, to promote, to demote, to suspend or discharge for just cause, to lay off for lack of work, are rights vested exclusively in the management of the Company. It is further agreed that the direction of the working forces, the right to plan, direct, and control plant operations, the right to relocate or dose the plant, the right to introduce new or improved production methods or facilities, the amount of employees or supervision necessary, the right to place work with outside contractors, combining or splitting up department, schedules of production, establishment of standards of quality and quantity, determination of the extent to which the plant will be operated, and production or employment to be increased or decreased are vested exclusively in the Company.
The above rights of management are not to be considered as all inclusive, but are examples of some of the types of matters or rights or functions which the Company has not granted and are still part of the inherent rights of management. All of the rights, powers, authority, etc., that the Company had prior to the signing of this Agreement are retained by the Company, except those clearly spelled out as granted by management in this Agreement. If the Company in exercising its inherent rights to manage, violates any of the express provisions of this Agreement, the Union may file a grievance.
11.02	Presence of all employees on the job is 61
Article XI - Miscellaneous - Confd.
necessary if regular production lines are to be kept running and full-time jobs are to be provided. Absenteeism on one job will adversely affect other employee's jobs. The Company and the Union agree that regular attendance will be required of all employees.
If an employee desires to be excused from work, he shall obtain permission of his foreman in advance. In case of emergency where it is not possible to make previous arrangements, he shall notify the department or shift supervisor at the earliest possible moment. Absence without leave, or report, or without reason for non-reporting, or cases where the cause of absence is misrepresented will be reason for disciplinary action by the Company. Excessive unexcusable absenteeism may be the cause for discipline including dismissal.
Company telephone numbers are 759-4141 from 8:00 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. week days.
At all other hours, they are:
IROQUOIS STREET
Production, Maintenance, Lab. 759-4147 HENRY STREET
Production, Maintenance, Lab. 759-4149
WAREHOUSE	759-4148
11.03	One bulletin board will be provided in each Bargaining Unit Department for the exclusive use of the Union. These boards will be used for notices of meetings and other Union business or affairs. All material posted on these bulletin boards must bear the approval of a designated representative of the Industrial Relations Manager before being posted.
62
Article XI - Miscellaneous - Confd,
11.04	The Company shall provide proper safety devices and maintain sanitary conditions in the plant, and agree insofar as possible to eliminate conditions hazardous to the health and welfare of the employees. The employees will co-operate in keeping all areas of the plant and grounds in a clean and sanitary condition, and will be responsible for keeping their own work areas in a clean and orderly condition.
(a) Three representatives of the Union shall participate in the plant Safety Program and will be paid their A.H.E. or their job rate whichever is the higher up to four (4) hours per month for meetings with the Company and safety inspection throughout the plant.
11.05	The Company shall provide and have printed at its own expense sufficient copies of this Agreement and letters of understanding to fill the needs of the Union and the Membership.
11.06	Amendments - Any of the provisions of this Agreement may be amended by mutual consent <f the parties in writing.
11.07	There shall be one regular meeting between the Company and the Union each month.
11.08	When a derogatory notation is placed in an employee's personnel record, the employee will be given a copy of the notation and a copy will be furnished to the President of the Local Union. If the
employee feels that the notation is unjustified or Inaccurate, the problem may be processed through the regular grievance procedure. Derogatory notations for offenses, except those For violation of Article III, not repeated within one year will be
63
Article XI - Miscellaneous- Confd.
n this Agreement, it shall mean regularly scheduled vorking days exclusive cf Saturdays, Sundays, Holidays and days on which the plant is shut down.
ARTICLE XII
Union Security
(a) Any employee who is a member of the Union in good standing on the effective date of this Agreement shall maintain his membership in the Union as a condition of his continued employment.
Any employee in the bargaining unit who is not a member of the Union shall become a member of the Union within 30 days of the signing date of this Agreement as a condition of continued employment,
Any employee hired or transferred into the bargaining unit on or after the effective date of this Agreement shall within 30 days become a member of the Union as a condition of employment and maintain his membership in the Union.
12.02 The Company will deduct from the wages earned (including regular Supplemental Unemployment Benefits paid) the authorized monthly Union dues and assessments from the first pay received in each calendar month and remit said deductions to the Treasurer of Local 733, URCLPWA.
65
ArticleXII - Union Security-Confd
12.03 Authorizations for dues deductions will be signed by tine union member on a form furnished by the Union and a copy of the authorization will be given to the Company. Authorizations once executed shall be irrevocable for the duration of this Agreement or any renewal thereof, provided that if the termination of this Agreement or any renewal thereof is followed by the execution of a new Agreement, these assignments and authorizations shall be deemed to	raft.'4Krifry, the duration
of such new Agreement.
Authorization for Union deductions shall be automatically revoked upon: (a) Termination of employment; (b) Transfer of employment into an occupation outside the bargaining unit.
ARTICLE XIII
Duration of Agreement
This Agreement shall be effective from the twenty-eighth day of April, 1991 and shall continue in force until the 27th day of Abril 1994. and shall continue automatically thereafter for annual periods of one year each, unless written notice is given to either party not more than ninety (90) days immediately prior to the expiration date or the anniversary date of any yearly period, that it is desired to terminate or to amend the Agreement. In the event such notice is given, the parties shall commence negotiations within fifteen (15) days thereafter.
66
Article XIII - Duration cf Agreement - Cont’d,
The final termination of this Agreement will be in accordance with the Ontario Labour Relations Act.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto have executed this Collective Labour Agreement as of the 28th day cf April, 1991.
GATES CANADA INC. LOCALUNION733
UNITED RUBBER, CORK, LINOLEUM AND PLASTIC WORKERS OF AMERICA
GAR
ROB
ROD WHITE JAMES SMITH
CHARLES SCIME
67
SUPPLEMENTALAGREEMENT NO. 1 WAGE AGREEMENT
In settlement of all wage demands presented against the Company during these negotiations, the following adjustments will be made:
1.	Effective April 28th, 1991 a general wage increase of $.30 per hour to be incorporated in the wage structure, plus a wage adjustment in the amount of $.10 per hour to be boxed on the side.
2.	Effective April 28th, 1992 a general wage increase of $.30 per hour to be incorporated in the wage structure, plus a wage adjustment in the amount of $.10 per hour to be boxed on the side.
3.	Effective April 28th, 1993 a general wage increase of $.25 per hour to be incorporated in the wage structure, plus a wage adjustment in the amount of $.10 per hour to be boxed on the side.
4.	Skilled Trades inequity increases as follows to all employees holding Journeyman classifications, including Oiler Mechanic:
Effective April 28th, 1992 - $.1 0 per hour. Effective April 28th, 1993 - $. 10 per hour.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto have executed this aareement as of the 28tii day of April, 1991.
GATES CANADA INC. LOCAL UNION733
UNITED RUBBER, CORK, LINOLEUM AND PLASTIC WORKERS OF AMERICA
69
Agreement No. 1 - Cont’d,
I.A. PIERCE
A.	J. ROBERTS PETER C.TEKKER
B.	KELLEY R.F. SEDMAN
GARRY MacDONALD ROBERT SARDINSKI ROD WHITE JAMES SMITH CHARLESSCIME
SUPPLEMENTALAGREEMENT NO. 2 HOLIDAY OBSERVANCE DATES
The purpose cf this Agreement which is supplemental to the Collective Labour Agreement executed concurrently herewith, is to set forth the dates on which the holidays provided for in Clause 6.03 cf the said Collective Labour Agreement will be observed.
1.	Holidays referred to above will be observed on the dates indicated below:
1991	1992	1993	1994
a New Years Day
b.	Good Friday
c.	Victoria Day
d.	Canada Day a Civic Holiday 1. Labour Day
Day
h. ChKdren's Xmas Patty L Christmas Day
j.	Floater No. 1
k.	Floater No. 2
Ian. 1 Spr. 17 May 20	May18
JJ. 1	Jut 6
Aug. 5	Aug. 3
Sept.2	Sept. 7
Ott 14	Oct 12
Dea 24	Dea 24
Dec. 25	Dea 25
Dea 26	Dec. 23
Dea 31	Dec. 31
Jan. 1	Dea 31/93
Apr. 9	Apr. 1
May 24
Jul.5
Aug. 2
Sepl6
Oct. 11
Dea 23
Dea 24
Dec. 22
Dea 30
70
Agreement No. 2 - Confd.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto have executed this agreement as <£ the 28th day of April, 1991.
GATES CANADA INC.
I.A. PIERCE
A.	J. ROBERTS PETER C.TEKKER
B.	KELLEY R.F. SEDMAN
LOCAL UNION733 UNITED RUBBER, CORK, LINOLEUM AND PLASTIC WORKERS OF AMERICA
GARRY MacDONALD ROBERTSARDINSKI ROD WHITE JAMES SMITH CHARLES SCIME
SUPPLEMENTAL AGREEMENT NO. 3
QUALIFICATIONS FOR TRANSPORT DRIVER CLASSIFICATION
In order to qualify as a Transport Driver a person must:
1.	Possess a valid chauffeur's driving permit or, when required, a valid Class "A" driving permit as designated by the appropriate Governmental licensing authority.
2.	Possess and maintain a driving record indicative of a competent, safe and accomplished driver.
3 Have had satisfactory experience driving a single
71
Agreement No. 3 - Cont'd,
axled gas powered transport truck or other comparable model within the most recent five years prior to entry into the classification.
4. Be bondable.
5.	Be age 25 or older.
6.	Be and must remain medically fit as determined by medical examination at time,of entry into the classification and at twelve month intervals thereafter, or as otherwise required.
In addition to the foregoing, he must successfully pass a test cf is proficiency in operation of the equipment he is to drive.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto have executed this Sepplemental Agreement on Qualifications for Transport Driver Classification as cf the 28th day of April, 1991.
GATES CANADA INC.
I.A. PIERCE
A.	J. ROBERTS PETER C.TEKKER
B.	KELLEY R.F. SEDMAN
LOCAL UNION 733 UNITED RUBBER, CORK, LINOLEUM AND PLASTIC WORKERS OF AMERICA
GARRY MacDONALD ROBERT SARDINSKI ROD WHITE JAMES SMITH CHARLESSCIME
72
April 28,1991
Mr. Garry MacDonald President
Local No. 733, URCLPWA
Letter of Understanding No. 1 of 21 KE: Application of Article IX of Collective Labour Agreement
Dear Mr. MacDonald:
In our contract negotiations just ended, we agreed on the follnsiiTry'ntanpBiaftaji	..tte.sfmbitf)'
provisions cf our Collective Labour Agreement:
It is agreed that it will be permissible to temporarily relieve employees of their work, out cf seniority, for a period up to three days when such temporary relief is occasioned by equipment breakdown, power failure or shortage cf materials from outside sources.
Yours truly,
A. Pierce, Director Corporate Labor Relations
ACCEPTED AND AGREED:
Garry MacDonald, President Local No. 733, URCLPWA
75
April 28,1991
Mr. Garry MacDonald President
Local No. 733, URCLPWA
Letter of Understanding No. 2 of 21 R E Miscellaneous Matter to be Printed inthe CLA Booklet
Dear Mr. MacDonald:
In the negotiations just completed, we agreed that we would include in the printed CLA booklet brief summaries of the benefits provided under the following:
SUB Agreement
Health and Life Insurance Agreement Separation Payment Plan
Yours truly,
I. A. Pierce, Director Corporate Labor Relations
ACCEPTED AND AGREED:
Garry MacDonald, President Local No. 733, URCLPWA
76
April 28, 1991
Mr. Garry MacDonald President
Local No. 733, URCLPWA
Letter of Understanding No. 3 cf 21
R E Application of Certain COLA Provisions
Dear Mr. MacDonald:
i..„*hp.1.QZ4jwinntlfJti/}nR we reached certain
understandings with respect to the Interim Increase (COLA) language to be incorporated in our new Collective Labour Agreement.
1.	It is agreed that the adjustments provided for at periodic intervals under said language do not pyramid on each other.
2.	The Company has taken the position that payments under the COLA provisions are subject to reduction. It is the Union's position that there can be no reduction in any such payments.
3.	In view of the foregoing, it has been agreed that any dispute which may arise in regard to reducing COLA payments will be subject to arbitration.
Yours truly,
A. Pierce, Director Corporate Labour Relations
ACCEPTED AND AGREED:
Garry MacDonald, President Local No. 733, URCLPWA
77
April 28,1991
Mr. Garry MacDonald President
Local No. 733. URCLPWA
Latter c£ UnderstandingNo. 4 of 21 RE: Practices to be Continued
Dear Mr. MacDonald:
This confirms certain commitments made by the Company during the contract negotiations just completed.
The Company will:
1.	Continue to sponsor the picnic pretty much as we have done in the past, if there continuesto be enough interest in it to make it worthwhile.
2.	Supply safety boots, rubber aprons and eye protectionwithout charge forjobs as required.
3.	Sell Gates merchandise to employees at lowest published catalogue level plus applicabletaxes.
4.	Provide gloves without cost to employees occupying the classifications listed below, with the understanding that stringent controls will be set up to prevent abuse Of the privilege:
a Belt Vulcanizers (Rag Wrap & Air Bag)
b.	Open-end Press Curemen
c.	Millmen
d.	Lead Extruder Crew
e.	Curved Hose Curemen
f.	HorizontalWire Braider Operators
78
No. 4 Cont’d,
5.	Sell gloves at one-half Gates cost to employees not covered in 4, above, for use in their jobs.
6.	Supply and launder coveralls for employees on jobs listed in Clause 4.03 of the Agreement.
7.	Keep sets cf coveralls available which will be
issued to any employee assigned to the
following jobs, as required:
a.	Clean and degrease braider. This involves a complete wash down of the machine; not simply a cleaning of the deck outer surfaces.
b.	Clean curved hose cure area and pit.
C.	Lead Extruder crew.
Yours truly,
I. A. Pierce, Director Corporate Labour Relations
ACCEPTED AND AGREED:
Garry MacDonald, President Local No. 733, URCLPWA
79
No. 5 Confd.
must, at the time of the latter displacement, declare to which job he wishes his recall rights to apply, i.e. he cannot hold recall rights to more than one job.
“The term ‘recall' as used in this interpretive letter means the return of an employee, displaced from his job but not laid off, to a job from which he was displaced. It bears no relationship to the recall rights covered in Clause 9,08. ’Recall rights’ as used in connection with 9.07 apply only to moves within the plant while the ‘recall rights’ provided in 9.08 refer to returning a man to the payroll from laid off. status. Rights granted under9.07 do not survive layoff.”
Yours truly,
I. A. Pierce, Director Corporate Labour Relations
ACCEPTED AND AGREED:
Garry MacDonald, President Local No. 733, URCLPWA
81
April 28, 1991
Mr. Garry MacDonald President
Local No. 733, URCLPWA
Letter of Understanding No. 6 of 21 RE: Application of Clause 5.12
Dear Mr. MacDonald:
Indur negotiationsjustcompleted, we agreedthatwe would combine the contents of our 1971 letters of understanding, (Numbers 11, 15, 21 and 22) which perlain to applications of Clause 5.12 into this single lett sr. This we have done, with new modifications to 19‘< ;1 letter No. 22.
A. Old letter No. 11 provided as follows:
This is to record an understanding reached during our recent negotiations regarding the application of Section 5.12 of the Collective Labour Agreement.
We have agreed that the phrase "the rate of the job transferred to", where it appears in the second sentence of Section 5.12 shall be given the meanings described in numbered paragraphs 1, 2 and3 below:
1. If a day worker is transferred to another day work operation, the phrase 'rate of the job transferred to" shall mean the rate of the job transferred to as shown in Schedule "A".
82
No. 8 Cont'd.
D.	Old letter No. 22 provided as follows:
There have been Company Benefit Transfers which were of excessive duration, (e.g. the one year example), and there have been lengthy transfers across shifts which may have created an undue hardship.
Without losing sight of the fact that this language in Clause 5.12 provides a vital flexibility to the Company which cannot be seriously impaired, we have agreed that we will give consideration to bidding in anticipated long term situations and that we will avoid cross-shift Company Benefit Transfers of more senior employees (where a substantial length of time is involved), where within-the-shift transfers will suit the purpose equally well, without an undue disruption of production.
It is recognized, however, that developmental work (covered under the 105% guarantee) presents a different problem from the ordinary Company Benefit Transfer, and that in these cases the Company must reserve the complete right to select the operator(s) for such work.
E.	(Vonmatiy, we ‘’■Wintfuro'ompari/’DenIjlii Transfer an employee for a period longer than one month unless the employee so transferred is willing to accept such transfer for a longer period of time. This thought must be applied with due regard to the qualifications of available personnel.
85
No. 6 Confd.
Where a long term Company Benefit Transfer may be anticipated, we will, before bidding, as suggested in the second paragraph of old letter No. 22, otter the employees within the classification involved an opportunity to reposition themselves on more desirable shifts.
Yours truly,
A. Pierce, Director Corporate Labour Relations
ACCEPTED AND AGREED:
Garry MacDonald, President Local No. 733, URCLPWA
April 28,1991
Mr. Garry MacDonald
Rr&sidftot
Local No. 733, URCLPWA
Letter of Understanding No. 7 of 21 R E Payment for Union Representatives
Dear Mr. MacDonald:
In the negotiations just ended, we have agreed that the Company will pay Union Representatives for time lost as follows:
1.	The Company will pay each member of the Bargaining Committee up to two hours for Step 3 meetings.
2,	The Company will pay each member of the Bargaining Committee one hour each in advance of each Step 3 meeting.
Yours truly,
A Pierce, Director Corporate Labour Relations
ACCEPTED AND AGREED:
Garry MacDonald, President
Local No. 733, URCLPWA
87
April 28, 1991
Mr. Garry MacDonald President
Local No. 733, URCLPWA
Letter of Understanding No. 8 of 21 R E Application of Clause 10.02 of the Collective Labour Agreement
DearMr. MacDonald
It was agreed in 1977 contract negotiations that in conjunction with Clause 10.02 of the C.L.A. that in special circumstances approved by the Company, an employee may be granted a one day leave of absence in the event it is not possible far the employee to attend the funeral of a designated relative.
Yours truly,
A. Pierce, Director Corporate Labour Relations
ACCEPTED AND AGREED:
President
Local No. 733, URCLPWA
88
April 28, 1991
Mr. Garry MacDonald President
Local No. 733, URCLPWA
Letter of Understanding No. 9 of 21 R E Partial Pay for Union President
Dear Mr. MacDonald:
The President of Local 733, U.R.W. will be off work on Fridays to conduct affairs of the Local Union. The Company will pay the Local Union eight hours pay at his E.I.E. or his A.H.E., whichever is higher, if he is an incentive worker or at Job Rate if a day worker. When a paid holiday is observed ori'a Friday, the Union President's last regular scheduled work day preceding the holiday will be substituted for the Friday.
Yours tally,
A. Pierce, Director Corporate Labour Relations
ACCEPTED AND AGREED:
Garry MacDonald, President
Local No. 733, URCLPWA
89
April 28,1991
Mr. Garry MacDonald President
Local No. 733, URCLPWA
Letter cf Understanding No. 11 of 21 RE: Job Vacancy for Posting
Dear Mr. MacDonald:
During the 1977 negotiations, the parties discussed what would constitute a job vacancy for the purpose of posting.
As a result of our discussion, it was agreed that a vacancy exists and must be posted when such job is worked in excess of thirty (30) hours a week.
Yours truly,
A. Pierce, Director Corporate Labour Relations
ACCEPTED AND AGREED:
Garry MacDonald, President
Local No. 733, URCLPWA
91
April 28,1991
Mr. Garry MacDonald President
Local No. 733, URCLPWA
Letter tf Understanding No. 12 of 21 RE: Partial Pay for Union Time Study Engineer
DearMr. MacDonald:
The Company will pay up to a maximum of twenty (20) hours per week at straight time average hourly earnings for the actual time the Union Methods Engineer is off his regularjob and engaged in duties required of him as UnionMethods Engineer. Inorder to be eligible for the payment set forth above, the Union Methods Engineer must have attended and graduated from the International Time Study School or from an equivalent program recognized by the Union and Company.
If the Union Methods Engineer is required by the Union to engage in time study duties in excess of twenty (20) hours in a week he will be released for the requiredtime but without pay by the Company.
The Company may assign work to the Union Methods Engineer for the balance of hours in the week during which he is not engaged in time study activities with payment at straight time average hourly earnings or the rate <f the job to which he is assigned, whichever is higher.
92
April 28,1991
Mr. Garry MacDonald President
Local No. 733, URCLPWA
Letter <f Understanding No. 14 of 21 RE: Adjustment of Pay Cheque Errors
Dear Mr. MacDonald:
Pay cheque errors will be adjusted as soon as possible after notification has been furnished to the Company by the employee but. at any rate, not later than three (3) working days after the error has bean established.
Yours truly,
I. A. Pierce, Director Corporate Labour Relations
ACCEPTED AND AGREED:
Garry MacDonald, President Local No. 733, URCLPWA
96
April 28,1991
Mr. Garry MacDonaldPresident Local No. 733, URCLPWA
Letterof Understanding No. 16 of 21 Re: Layoff and/or Recall Temporarily Out of Seniority
DearMr. MacDonald:
This will confirm our agreement arrived at during 1985 C.L.A. Negotiations that, upon mutual consent between the Company and the Union, the Company will be permitted to do the following:
a)	In the event of layoff retain necessary employees out of seniority for a maximum of four (4) weeks beyond normal layoff date for the purpose of training replacements. An employee will not accumulate additional seniority under Clause 9.09 while being retained out of seniority.
b)	In the event of recall from layoff underthe new language included in Clause 9.08 of the
C.L.A., the actual date of return to work may not necessarily be in order of seniority for the purpose of proceedingwith startup operations
98
April 28, 1991
Mr. Garry MacDonald President
Local No. 733, URCLPWA
Letter of UnderstandingNo. 17 of 21 Re: Notification <f Intentions to contract Out wo rk
DearMr. MacDonald:
If the Company is considering contracting out work, they will advise the designated Union Representative.
Such notificationwill be made in advance of arrangements being made, wherever practical to do so, to allow an opportunity for input on the use of skilled trades employees. If it is mutually agreed upon between the Company and the Union the work involved may be performed by skilled trades employees. Otherwise the work will be performed as designated by the Company.
When it b not practical to give advance notification, the Company will provide subsequent notification to the designated Union Representative.
Yours truly,
I, A. Pierce, Director Corporate Labor Relations
ACCEPTED AND AGREED
Garry MacDonald, President Local No. 733, URCLPWA
100
April 28,1991
Mr. Garry MacDonald President
Local No. 733, URCLPWA
Letter of Understanding No. 18 of 21 Re: Expediting Bid Chains
Dear Mr. MacDonald:
This will acknowledge that there have been a number 'of recent occasions on which Company officials have had difficulty in expediting the training and movement cf people within bid chains.
The parties have recognized that this can present problems and the Company will endeavour to complete training and movement of successful bidders as quickly as possible as discussed in 1988 Negotiations.
Yours truly,
A. Pierce, Director Corporate Labor Relations
ACCEPTED AND AGREED:
Garry MacDonald, President
Local No. 733, URCLPWA
101
April 28, 1991
Mr. Garry MacDonald President
Local No. 733, URCLPWA
Letter of Understanding No. 19 of 21 Re; General Agreement on Implementation of a
Dear Mr. MacDonald:
The parties hereto agree that the following terms and conditions shall be applied to each operation that is removed from payment under the incentive system by agreement between the parties.
1.	Unless specifically modified under this or another agreement, the relevant portions of the Collective Labour Agreement will apply.
2.	Payment fori experienced operators will be at the cap rate of the operation number(s) involved for all hours worked on such operation(s) including overtime. Employees who require training on such operation(s) and who do not hold an active E.I.E. in the classification will be paid for the specified training period at job rate following which they will be considered experienced and will receive cap rate.
3.	Employees who hold the Utility classification and who act as relief operators during break periods or during other absence of the operator or while sharing duties normally performed by the operator will receive cap payment for that operation for all such hours of work. Eligibility for cap payment will begin
102
No. 19 Cont’d.
when the employee is capable of performing the operation without direct supervision by a trainer. During direct training, the employee will receive his/her regular rate of pay or job rate for the classification on which training is being conducted, whichever is higher.
4.	Employees are expected to produce top quality products using S.P.C. as outlined in the operation as a tool to achieve this quality. At ail times, quality will be of primary importance.
5.	Employees are expected to work at a satisfactory effort level for all productive time available during ibii/jth.ttt excluriina,tbs usuaj standard allowances. Employees are expected to work as a team within the team area as defined in the agreement on that area.
6.	An experienced employee working in a team defined in the agreement on that area will, if transferred under Clause 5.12 of the C.L.A. to an operation in his own or another defined team, receive the cap rate for his/her own classification or cap rate for the job transferred to, whichever is higher.
An experienced employee working in a team de-fined in the agreement on that area will, if transferred under Clause 5.12 cf the C.LA. to an oper-ation which is not in a defined team, receive the cap rate for his/her own classification or pay-ment as prescribed in Clause 5.12, whichever is higher.
An employee working in a team defined in the agreement on that rre"a"'iv\il'Otfffnerrdu*h!e option to leave the plant under the terms of Clause 5.13 of the Collective Labour Agreement provided there is no other productive work available on any other operation included in the defined team area.
103
No. 19 Cont'd,
For purposes of this clause, productive work shall be defined as performing duties directly on a product and does not include work pertaining to facilities such as clean up, painting, etc.
If an employee is not offered the option to leave, payment will be at cap for the operation assigned or cap for the employees own classification, whichever is higher.
If an employee is offered the option fo leave and elects to stay at work, payment will be made in accordance with Clause 5.13 of the Collective Labour Agreement.
The Company will endeavour to balance the option to leave under Clause 5.13 as equitably as is practical between employees in a classification on a shift
Where an employee assigned to a team defined in the agreement on that area comes under the terms of Clause 5.15 of the C.L.A. “E.I.E.” will be changed to read "Cap payment” in that clause. In all other respects, the terms of Clause 5.15 will apply.
7.	Part of the job will consist of time set aside for discussions aimed at improving all aspects of the job in areas of quality, quantity, work environment and items of preventive maintenance that would best be done by the operators to ensure high quality production.
8.	Record keeping in S.P.C. and statistics of production, down time, defects, etc. will be used as tools to monitor and improve the effectiveness of the non-rated system.
9.	In the event that either party gives notice of termination of a specific agreement relating to a non-rated area, the company and Union will cooperate in reintroducing proper incentive rates as soon as possible to each operation in
104
No. 19 Cont’d,
that area that was formerly incentive rated. If this cannot be accomplished on any given operation within the fourteen (14) day notice period then payment will continue on such operation as outlined in Item 2 or 3 of this agreement until such time as the rates are installed.
10.The Company has set out general intentions concerning the removal cf incentive rates in letter dated May1, 1989 and May 11,1989.
parties agree to meet and attempt to resolve any unforeseen items that may arise during the period this agreement is in effect. This agreement may be amended at any time by mutual agreement between the parties.
12.	All guarantees will be paid at cap rate under the non-rated payment system provided the employee is eligible to be naid at the cap rate for the work heina performed when the guarantee situation arises.
13.	All specific agreements relating to non-rated areas are hereby updated along with this General Agreement.
Yours truly,
A. Pierce, Director Corporate Labor Relations
ACCEPTED AND AGREED:
Garry MacDonald, President Local No. 733, URCLPWA
105
April 28,1991
Mr. Garry MacDonald President
Local No. 733, URCLPWA
_____________________No. 20 of21
Re: Prior Satisfactory Service
Dear Mr. MacDonald:
In conjunction with the General Agreement on Imntementation of a Non-Rated Payment System the term “prior satisfactory sarvinn* shall mean the direct traininn period for each job classification plus an additional four (41 weeks.
Yours truly,
I. A. Pierce, Director Corporate Labor Relations
ACCEPTED AND AGREED:
Garry MacDonald, President Local No. 733, URCLPWA
106
April 28,1991
Mr. Gamy MacDonald President
Local No. 733, URCLPWA
Letter of Understanding No. 21 of 21 Re: Shift Change Guidelines
Dear Mr. MacDonald:
As you know, Clause 6.02 (b) of the C.L.A. allows for a change in working hours at an employee’s own request without the necessity of paying overtime rates.
This has been a source of continuing conflict between the Company and the Union for some time and in order to minimize future disagreement, the following guidelines are being issued for use of this provision.
1.	Requests must be in writing and must be received and approved in advance of the change of hours. Except in the case of extenuating circumstances, such arrangements must be made no later than two (2) working days prior to the change.
2.	The changes, in most cases, should only be a complete shift change. For example, an employee may be allowed to change fro m day shift to afternoon shift for one or more days but a change from 7-3 to 8-4 should not normally be permitted except in extenuating circumstances.
107
No. 21 Confd.
3.	Good judgement and consistency should be applied in determining the validity of the request. Changes should be granted only where there is a compelling personal need on the part of the employee and not merely for convenience or personal preference. As an example, medical appointments which cannot be altered may be considered valid reasons. Leaving early to avoid holiday traffic or working extra time to make up for being late would definitely not be acceptable reasons.
4.	All requests must be approved by the Department Head and processed through Industrial Relations prior to being granted.
5.	In all cases, potential problems which mightbe created by a shift change must be a prime consideration.
Yours truly,
I, A Pierce, Director Corporate Labor Relations
ACCEPTED AND AGREED:
Garry MacDonald, President Local No. 733, URCLPWA
108