Collective
Agreement
RECEIVED
FEB 11999
Uniroyal Goodrich Tire Manufacturing,
Kitchener, Ontario
A Division of Michelin North America (Canada) Inc.
United Steelworkers of America on behalf of Local 677
June let, 1998 - May 31, 2001
00714(05)
INDEX
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
Clause
Absence -- Employee
Must Report.................................10.01-10.03
Average unit hour ................................ 7:10
Average earnings ................................. 7.11
Bereavement Pay .................................. 7.27
Discharge Clause ................................. 5.15
Examples -- causing discharge,
suspensions, reprimands ........................ 9.06
Grievance Procedure
Grievance Procedure ........................... 5.01
Grievance time	limits .................. 5.11-5.13
Arbitration	--	Step 4	  5.01
Arbitration	--	Wages ........................ 5.06
Arbitration	--	Standards .................... 5.07
Hours of Work
Hours of Work -- Normal ........................ 6.01
Hours of	Work --	Overtime ............... 6.05-6.07
Hours of	Work --	Employee must	work .......... 6.03
Lay-off -- Reduced Production .................... 6.02
Leave of Absence Leave of Absence -- Other than
Sickness ................................ 10.04-10.05
Leave of	Absence	-- Sickness ................ 10.06
Leave of	Absence	-- Union ................... 10.08
Leave of	Absence	-- Responsibility .......... 10.09
Payments
Payment Limits (including Bonus) ............... 7.03
Payments -- Changes on time sheets ............. 7.09
Payments -- Special Limits, Incentive Employees ................................ 7.16
Payments -- Special: Experienced Incentive Employees
Payments -- off standard ...................... 7.17
Payments -- Work Available on his/her job .	.	7.18
Payments -- Developments or
Experimental ................................. 7.19
Payments -- Mechanical etc. delays ............ 7.20
Payments -- Abnormal stock conditions ......... 7.21
Payments -- Group Operations .................. 7.22
Payments -- Productive work below 60
Unit Hour .................................... 7.24
Payments -- Experienced Incentive and Hourly Rated Employees
Reports for Work -- No Work Available	. 7.26
Accounting Inventory .......................... 7.28
Jury Duty ..................................... 7.29
Attending Hospital--Injured or Sick ........... 7.30
Payments for Learners .................. ..7.31-7.37
Payments Special - Learners, Group
Operations ................................... 7.38
Payments -- Hourly Rated Employees ............. 7.25
Record Card -- Reprimands, etc............. 9.03-9.06
Rest Periods ................................... 7.14
Statutory Holidays ........................ 6.09-6.18
Page
54
26-27
27
31
13-14
50-51
10-11
12-13
11
11-12
12
15
17-18
17
16-17
54-	55
55
55-	56
56
22-25
26
28
28
28-	29
29
29
29
29
29-	30
30-	31
31-	32 32
32-	33
33-	36
36-38
30
50-51
27
18-21
3
Clause
Page
Standards -- Incentive	Permanent ............ 7.02	21-22
Incentive	Effective ..................... 7.05-7.06	25-26
Incentive	Protested .......................... 7.08	26
Incentive	Union Time Study ................... 7.08	26
Seniority
Address Important ............................. 8.02	39
Hiring Date ................................... 8.04	39
Seniority	Privileges ......................... 8.05	39
Management .................................... 8.25	48-49
Job Seniority ............................ 8.07-8.09	39-40
Residence	Rights ............................. 8.10	40
For Lay-Off Procedure ......................... 8.11	40-44
For Recall .................................... 8.13	44
Supervisory or Salaried Employees ............. 8.23	48
Back Service Credit ........................... 8.16	44-45
Loaned Conditions ............................. 8.20	47
Transfer Rights ............................... 8.19	46-47
Shift Preference .............................. 8.24	48
Safety.....................................9.10-9.13	51-54
Vacation
Service - Scheduling - Payment ............... 11.01	57-58
Sick or Injured Employee ..................... 11.07	60
Resigns or Discharged ........................ 11.09	60
Laid-Off ..................................... 11.10	60-61
Minimum ...................................... 11.12	61
Appendices
Memorandum July 11, 1991 ................ Appendix	A	63
C.O.L.A. ................................ Appendix	B	63-65
J.I.T., S.P.C............................ Appendix	C	66
Non-Value-Added Jobs .................... Appendix	D	66-67
Measured Day Work ....................... Appendix	E	67-68
Maintenance ............................. Appendix	F	68-71
Letters of Understanding
Letter 1 Memorandum of Agreement re: Productivity.	72
Letter 2 Voluntary Overtime.	73
Letter 3 Employees who accept assignment to Supervisory Duties. 74 Letter 4 Voluntary Overtime & Employee is Late.	74
Letter 5 Safety Shoe Subsidy.	75
Letter 6 Pool of Hours.	75
Letter 7 Payment for Meetings & Union Time Study.	76
Letter 8 Union President's Pay.	76
Letter 9 Union Vice-President.	77
Letter 10 Plant Closure.	77
Letter 11 Technological Changes.	78
Letter 12 Contract issues related to 12 hour core.	79
Letter 13 Exceptional Shift Schedules.	'	79
Letter 14 Lateral Seniority (Department #64551) .	80
Letter 15 Mutual Respect.	80
Letter 16 Sudents.	81
Letter 17 Replacement Pool	81
Hates of Pay
Incremental Hiring Rates ..................... 7.32	33-34
Transferred Employees ........................ 84
Group Levels/Maintenance Levels Pay Rates ....	83
INDEX
Pension Plan .................... (GREEN)
Severance Award ................ (BUFF)
Insurance Program .............. (BLUE)
S.U.B. Plan .................... (YELLOW)
Separation Payment Plan ........ (PINK)
Dental Plan ..................... (WHITE)
Page
3
32
38
55
87
91
5
AGREEMENT
This agreement made and entered into this 1st day of June, 1998, by and between Uniroyal Goodrich Tire Manufacturing, Kitchener Plant, Kitchener, Ontario, a Division of Michelin North America (Canada) Inc. hereinafter called the "Company", and the United steelworkers of America on behalf of Local #677 thereof, hereinafter called the "Union", for the occupational classifications represented by the Union as set forth in Article 2, Subsection 2.01.
ARTICLE I Purpose
It is the mutual desire of the parties to this agreement to promote cooperation and harmony, and to provide an amicable method of settling differences which might arise hereunder.
ARTICLE II
Union Recognition
2.01	The Company recognizes the Union as the sole Collective Bargaining Agent for all hourly-rated and incentive employees of the Company at its Tire Plant in the City of Kitchener, SAVE AND EXCEPT supervisors, persons above the rank of supervisors, watchmen, guards, production schedulers, office employees.
2.02	The Company agrees to meet and negotiate with the representatives of the Union on matters pertaining to rates of pay, hours of work, and working conditions.
2.03	Wherever the masculine gender appears in this Agreement, it shall be construed as meaning male or female, unless the context in the clause requires otherwise.
ARTICLE III
Deduction of Union Dues
3.01	The Company agrees to deduct from the wages of any employees who are members of the Union who individually and voluntarily certify in writing that they authorise such deduction, their union dues, initiation fees, rejoining fees and general assessments in accordance with the International Constitution of the united Steelworkers of America and remit said deductions to the International Secretary-Treasurer of the United Steelworkers of America.
Individual check-off authorizations which have been signed by employees shall be irrevocable during the life of this Agreement and any extension thereof.
3.02	Any person hired as a new employee and any employee who is hereafter transferred into the bargaining unit on or after the effective date of this Agreement shall become a member of the Union on the date of employment or transfer, and shall as a condition of employment, maintain his/her membership in the Union to the extent of paying membership dues.
6
3.03	Any employee who is in the bargaining unit and who is not a member of the Union shall become a member of the Union not later than fifteen (15) days from the effective date of this Agreement and shall, as a condition of employment, maintain his/her membership in the Union to the extent of paying membership dues. An employee who is on layoff, on leave of absence, or absence due to injury or illness shall comply with the requirement of this section not later than fifteen (15) days following his/her return to work.
3.04	Clauses 3.01, 3.02,	3.03 shall not apply to an employee who is
denied membership in the Union or whose membership therein has been terminated for reasons other than his/her failure to tender the regular monthly membership dues in such amount as may be fixed by the local union in accordance with the procedure prescribed by the Constitution of the International Union.
3.05	(a) In the event any employee fails to become a member of the Union as provided in Clause 3.02 or 3.03 above, the Union shall give written notice to the Company and to such employee of such failure. Such employee shall not be retained on a job in the bargaining unit unless s/he has, within two (2) weeks after receipt of such notice, presented evidence that s/he has become a member of the Union, or that s/he was denied a membership for reasons other than his/her failure to tender the regular monthly membership dues in such amount as may be fixed by the local union in accordance with the procedure prescribed by the Constitution of the International Union.
(b) Any employee who has become a member of the Union and who thereafter fails to maintain his/her membership in the Union to the extent of paying membership dues shall not be retained in the employ of the Company, provided that the Union shall have given written notice to the Company and to such employee of such failure and such employee shall have failed to comply with the provisions of this Article within thirty (30) days after the receipt of such notice.
3.06	Authorizations for union deductions shall be automatically revoked upon:
(a)	Termination of employment
(b)	Transfer of employment into an occupation outside the bargaining unit.
The Company will, however, deduct the monthly union dues and/or initiation fees from the payoff cheques or S.U.B. payments Of those members in (a) who have had insufficient dues deducted in either the month they have terminated their employment and/or the month previous, provided such employee has worked forty (40) or more hours in such month or months and has sufficient earnings.
The Company will also deduct monthly union dues from the current month from those employees in (b) who worked in the bargaining unit for forty (40) or more hours in such month.
3.07	Authorizations for union deductions shall be signed in triplicate by the employees concerned and their signature must be witnessed by an employee of the Company. One copy shall be given to the employee who authorized his/her deduction, one copy to a representative of Local #677,
and one copy will be forwarded to the Company Payroll department. The following forms of authorizations shall be used.
■A"
I hereby authorize Uniroyal Goodrich Tire Manufacturing, to deduct from my wages or S.U.B. payments owing to me, in each month on a weekly basis, a total of the current monthly sum, or such other amount as may be revised by the local union in accordance with the Constitution of the International Union, or by action of the Convention of the International Union, in accordance with and for the duration of the Collective Agreement between Uniroyal Goodrich Tire Manufacturing, Kitchener Plant and Local #677 United Steelworkers of America on behalf of Local #677 dated June 1, 1998. Please remit this sum monthly to the International Secretary-Treasurer as my membership dues. This assignment is irrevocable during the life of the Agreement, but becomes void upon:
(a)	termination of employment, or
(b)	transfer to an occupation outside the bargaining unit.
I understand that it shall place no liability of any kind upon Uniroyal Goodrich Tire Manufacturing by virtue of your action in honouring in good faith this assignment and authorization.
Bmp. Name
(please print)
Signed
(employee)
Dept.No..................... Employee No.
Date...................Address ...............
Phone ........................................
Witness ......................................
"B"
Application for Membership
On this ................. I hereby make application for membership in
Local #677, U.S.W.A. and if accepted I do hereby authorize Uniroyal
Goodrich Tire Manufacturing to deduct from my wages owing to me on the earliest pay day of the first month, the current sum, or such other amount as may be revised in accordance with the Constitution of the International Union, or by action of the Convention of the International Union, as my initiation fees or rejoining dues in accordance with the Collective Agreement between the said parties, &ted June 1, 1998. This initiation fees or rejoining dues deduction will also include my first regular union dues instalment and shall be remitted to the International Secretary-Treasurer.
8
I understand that it shall place no liability of any kind upon Uniroyal Goodrich Tire Manufacturing by virtue of your action in honouring in good faith this assignment and authorization.
Bmp.Name...........................Signed ..................
(please print)	(employee)
Dept.No..................... Employee No....................
Date...................Address .............................
Phone ......................................................
Witness ....................................................
Copies of the Authorization to deduct Union Dues and application for
membership shall be supplied by the Union, to the Company. The Union shall give the Company written notice in advance of any change in the amounts expressed in Schedules "A" or "B" .
3.08	Authorizations for deductions shall be effective from the earliest pay payable of the month provided the employee has worked and/or received the equivalent of forty (40) or more hours.
3.09	The Company Payroll Department shall deduct from the wages and/or payments of each employee in the bargaining unit, the amount of the monthly union dues in accordance with the authorizations then in his/her hands. Such deduction shall be made weekly from the employee's pay cheque and shall be remitted monthly. The Company shall remit the amounts so deducted, prior to the fifteenth (15) day of the month following, by cheque, as directed by the TJhion, payable to the International Secretary-Treasurer of the Uhited Steelworkers of America.
3.10	The Company shall name the employee from whose pay the union deductions were made and shall classify such as either current, arrears or new member. The Company shall also name the employees from whom no deductions were made and shall classify such employees as:
(a)	Where they have terminated employment and classed as laid off, discharged, retired or quit.
(b)	Where they have been transferred into an occupation outside bargaining unit.
(c)	Where they did not have sufficient wages or payments by the fourth pay day of the month.
The Company shall also name the employee who was transferred and his/her employee number in the department to which s/he was transferred. The Company shall forward the above information to both the International Secretary-Treasurer and the Local Union Treasurer.
3.11	The Union shall indemnify and save the Company harmless from any claims, suits, judgements, attachments, and from other form of liability as a result of the Company making any deductions in accordance with the
9
foregoing authorizations and assignments and the Union will refund directly to all employees on whom a wrongful deduction was made.
3.12	Both parties agree that there will be no discrimination, coercion, or intimidation of employees in respect to union membership or authorization of union deductions.
3.13	The Union agrees that neither it nor any of its officers or members will collect union dues, initiation fees, or rejoining dues on Company time.
ARTICLE IV Company Security
4.01	It is recognized that the continuity of production free from work stoppages, slowdowns, or strikes is essential to the efficient and economical operation of the Company's business.
4.02	It is agreed that the Company shall have the right to reasonably discipline employees who violate any provisions of this Agreement. If the Union questions that the Agreement has been violated, the Union shall have the right to avail itself of the grievance procedure as provided in Article V of this Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Grievance Procedure
5.01 The employee who has a complaint shall refer it to his/her immediate supervisor either directly or through his/her union representative. If the complaint is not satisfactorily settled, it may then be treated as a grievance and may be reduced to writing, dated and approved by the proper Union official. The grievor's supervisor or department/area manager shall acknowledge the request for a grievance meeting by signing the grievance form in the appropriate place. A copy of the dated and signed grievance will be provided to the supervisor at the time of his/her acknowledgement of the grievance. The grievance thereafter shall be processed through the following channels in sequence.
Step 1
The Department Steward and Vice-President and/or his/her authorized representative and the Department/Area Manager of the grievor's department and/or his/her authorized representative. A Steward shall be a member of the department which s/he represents. However, in the case of a small department, a Steward can be a member of another department.
Step 2
The Department Steward, President, Vice-President and/or their authorized representative (s) and the Department Head of the grievor's department and/or his/her authorized representative(s).
If a Steward, at Step #1 or #2, is away from the plant and will either not be available within a reasonable period of time to
10
negotiate the grievance, or it is desired that the grievance be processed without undue delay, the President, Vice-President and/or their authorized representative(s) may be substituted.
Step 3
The Department Steward and/or a member or members of the bargaining committee and the Manager Industrial Relations and the Plant Manager and/or their authorized representatives. A staff representative shall attend upon request of the Union.
Step 4
Any grievance arising from the interpretation, application, administration, or alleged violation of the Agreement, including incentive standards, which has not been settled under the grievance procedure including any question as to whether a matter is arbitrable may within, but not more than forty-five (45) calendar days after completion of Step #3 be submitted to arbitration by either party. When either party to this Agreement requests that a grievance be submitted to arbitration, they make such request in writing, and address same to the other party. Such request shall contain insofar as possible, a complete and accurate statement of the grievance matter to be arbitrated. Within five (5) calendar days of receipt of this notice, each party shall appoint an arbitrator, and notify the other party of its appointee. The two arbitrators so appointed shall select a chairman of the arbitration board within five (5) calendar days. In the event of failure to agree upon a chairman, either or both parties shall make application to the Minister of Labour for Ontario, asking that s/he nominate a chairman.
5.02	A decision by the majority of the arbitration board shall be final and binding upon both parties and the employees.
5.03	Each of the parties shall pay the charges and expenses of its appointees. The charges and expenses of the chairman of the arbitration board (if any) shall be borne equally by the Company and the Union.
5.04	The arbitration board shall not be authorized to make any decision inconsistent with the provisions of this Agreement, nor to alter, modify, or amend any part of the Agreement. Unless mutually agreed, no matter may be submitted to arbitration which has not been properly carried through all previous steps of the grievance procedure.
5.05	(a) In all cases of arbitration, a single arbitrator will be substituted for a Board of Arbitration provided for in this Article V unless the Union and the Company mutually agree to proceed by means of a Board of Arbitration.
(b) In all cases of substitution of a single arbitrator for a Board of Arbitration, as outlined in subsection (a) above, all other applicable provisions of Article v will continue to apply so far as they are relevant.
5.06	Grievances on occupational hourly rate ceilings and base rates in effect on the effective date of this Agreement are not subject to arbitration. Grievances pertaining to hourly rates under ceilings and new base rates established after the effective date of this Agreement (except those rates affected by general wage adjustments) shall be subject to the
11
arbitration procedure as defined in STEP 4 except that in such instances a single arbitrator will be substituted for the arbitration board.
This arbitrator will be selected by agreement between the parties or by the Minister of Labour for Ontario if the parties fail to agree on their selection within five (5) days after either party files a request for arbitration of the grievance, and s/he shall be a member of a reputable industrial engineering company and knowledgeable in the field of Industrial Engineering.
5.07	On a question pertaining to incentive standards and/or the application or cancellations of fixed process allowances for physically restricted increments of time and variable process allowance schedules in connection with an incentive standard, the Company and Union arbitrators shall appoint a reputable industrial engineering company for advice and counsel. Failing agreement on such appointment, the Chairman of the arbitration board shall make the appointment.
The Company so selected shall be required to make a thorough time study of the standard and/or process allowance schedule that is questioned before reporting to the Board. The charges and expenses of the industrial engineering company shall be borne equally by the Company and the Union.
5.08	Any difference between the Company and the Union as to the interpretation of this Agreement and any allegation by either party that the other has violated any terms of this Agreement, shall be deemed to be a grievance. In the event that such interpretation affects all employees in the bargaining unit, it shall be presented originally in STEP 3 of the grievance procedure.
5.09	Meetings will be arranged promptly in accordance with clause 5.13 to suit the convenience of the parties, but insofar as possible not to interfere with working hours. A block of time shall be set aside each week (if needed), mutually agreed to by both parties, to deal with outstanding third step grievances. Meetings shall start no earlier than 7:30 a.m. and no later than 2:00 p.m. An aggrieved employee may be required to attend a meeting by either party. However, no more than one employee shall be requested to attend a meeting unless it is mutually felt that more than one is necessary.
5.10	If a problem arises requiring a Steward to contact employees during working hours, such contact shall be arranged by the Steward through either the immediate supervisor or the Department/Area Manager concerned.
5.11	Executive Officers of the Union, Stewards and authorized local Union representatives (a current list to be provided by the Union) shall be permitted to enter the plant when off shift for the purpose of investigating grievances or conducting Union business. Before entering the plant, s/he shall comply with Company security regulations then in effect which regulations currently provide as follows:
1) He shall register with the security guard and be issued a pass.
2) He shall present his/her pass to the supervisor of the employee to be
interviewed and secure his/her permission to contact the employee so
12
that the least possible delay will result. Such pass shall be signed by the supervisor designating the time of entry and departure from the department.
3)	Upon his/her departure from the plant, s/he shall register out and surrender his/her pass to the security guard.
5.12	Within three (3) working days excluding Saturday, Sunday, and holidays, after receiving a dated grievance, supervision shall answer in writing giving the necessary information to show the solution or the action being taken toward the solution of the grievance.
5.13	A request for a meeting on a grievance may be written and if in writing, it shall be in triplicate signed by the Steward concerned, and presented to management in the following manner:
At Step #1 of the grievance procedure, the Steward will present copies 1 and 2 of the written request to the Department/Area Manager or his/her authorized representative. Such written request shall be dated as of the date of presentation. The Department/Area Manager or his/her authorized representative will initial receipt of same on both copies and return copy number 2 to the Steward. If the grievance is not settled at Step #1, and the Union desires to obtain a meeting at Step #2 of the grievance procedure, the President or vice-president of the Union or a representative authorized by them will present copies 2 and 3 of the written request signed by the contact man to the Department Head concerned and such copies shall contain the date of presentation. The above Department Head will initial receipt of same on both copies and return copy number 2 to the Union contact man.
If the grievance is not settled at Step #2 and the Union desires to obtain a meeting at Step #3, the Union will arrange such meeting with the Manager Industrial Relations through their normal contact. Such request will not be made in writing.
A meeting on a grievance shall be scheduled within three (3) working days excluding Saturday, Sunday and holidays, after the date of request for a meeting or at such later date as may be mutually agreed. If succeeding meetings at any step in the grievance procedure are required, they shall be arranged within three (3) working days unless otherwise mutually agreed upon; provided however, meetings shall not be scheduled on Saturday, Sunday, or holidays except by mutual agreement.
5.14	The Union agrees that the final written answer of management to a grievance at any step in the grievance procedure shall dispose of the grievance unless such grievance is appealed within ten (10) calendar days excluding any vacation shutdown period from the date of management's final answer. The only exception shall be that of an appeal to arbitration wherein forty-five (45) calendar days is allowed.
5.15	If the Company requests the presence of an employee at a meeting, the Company shall compensate the employee for such time as follows:
Time Work - At his/her customary hourly rate.
Incentive - The Base Rate of his/her job at his/her average unit hour.
13
In addition, the employee will be paid any shift premium to which s/he would be entitled for hours lost from his/her normal shift because of such meeting. Company agrees to provide all grievance meeting minutes to the local Union.
5.16	Discharge Clause
If an employee feels that s/he has been unjustly suspended or discharged, s/he shall have the right to appeal his/her case in accordance with the grievance procedure set forth in Article V of this Agreement. Such appeal must be in writing addressed to the Company and the Union, and must be in the Company's hands no later than three (3) working days, excluding Saturday, Sunday and holidays, after the effective date of his/her suspension or discharge.
If such appeal is properly made, the matter shall be negotiated through the regular channels and if it is determined that the employee has been unjustly suspended or discharged, s/he shall be reinstated to his/her former position without loss of seniority, and shall be compensated at his/her average earnings for normal hours lost from work because of the suspension or discharge less any penalty mutually agreed or decided by arbitration.
It is understood that when a department/area manager receives a written grievance pertaining to the appealing of a suspension or discharge, s/he shall be available for negotiating such grievance within one (1) working day, excluding Saturday, Sunday and holidays, after the receiving of the grievance.
Both parties of Step #2 shall be available for negotiating such grievance within one (1) working day, excluding Saturday, Sunday and holidays, after the completion of Step #I.
Both parties of Step #3 shall be available for negotiating such grievance within one (1) working day, excluding Saturday, Sunday and holidays, after the completion of Step #2.
One (1) day as referenced in this clause may be extended by mutual agreement.
In the event an employee is suspended or discharged, the supervisor concerned shall notify such employee's Steward if on shift, or as soon as possible, of such suspension or discharge. The action of restricting an employee from work will follow the process as set out in Grievance #111 (1994).
5.17	The Company and the Union desire that, insofar as possible, all grievances should be settled at the first step of the grievance procedure. A grievance after it has reached Step #3 shall not be settled at any previous step unless with the consent of the Manager Industrial Relations or his/her authorized representatives and the bargaining committee or their authorized representatives. Both parties agree to follow the grievance procedure in the sequence of steps as outlined in this Article.
14
5.18	The Union agrees there shall be no strike, partial or complete, slowdown, or stoppage of work on grievances that are proper subjects for arbitration, nor shall there be any strike, partial or complete, slowdown or stoppage of work on grievances that are not proper subjects for arbitration. The Company agrees there shall be no lock-out under the same conditions.
The Union agrees that in event of a legal strike, employees in the bargaining unit will provide for maintenance and operation of all essential services for the protection of plant property and products. It is understood that if the Union feels that the Company is requesting more employees in an individual occupation than are necessary for such maintenance, such problem will be negotiated to a satisfactory conclusion.
ARTICLE VI Hours of Work
6.01	Wherever the two parties cannot agree on a shift schedule for a particular area or department, other than the standard schedule, then the standard schedule will be in effect. (Agreed upon exceptions are outlined in Letter #13).
Provide for a 12 hour core shift schedule, according to a 4 crew 7 day continuous operation rotating schedule working 168 hours in each 28 day period with up to eight hours worked at premium payment. Work week and pay week shall run from Saturday through to and including Friday (7:00 a.m. Saturday through to the following 7:00 a.m. Saturday).
As part of any schedule rotation, a lesser number of shifts or crews may be scheduled as reguired to meet business needs. The eight (8) hours of premium payment are the hours which would be withdrawn from the schedule
by the company upon two weeks advance notice with no S.U.B. and no premium cost to the Company. Appropriate prior notification shall be provided to the Union and the employees a minimum of two weeks in advance of any changed requirements to any existing schedule (otherwise overtime at time and one-half applicable in the first changed shift,where worked).
It is recognized that the scheduled shift hours shall be exceeded in the starting and stopping of holiday shifts or shutdowns, replacement of absentees, and in cases of emergency.
Legislation in Ontario calls for the changing of time clocks two times each year. In the fall, the clocks revert backwards 1 hour to Eastern Standard Time and the shift in which the clocks are turned back, becomes a scheduled 12.5 hour shift. The night shift shall work until 6:30 a.m. and the day crew shall start at 6:30 a.m. The applicable premium pay at time and one-half for the extra half hour (12.5 hours worked, 12 hours straight time pay, 0.5 hours pay at applicable premium pay) shall be paid for each conversion shift.
In the spring when the clocks are moved ahead to Daylight Savings Time requiring 11.5 hours of scheduled work on each conversion shift, the night shift shall finish at 7:30 a.m. and the day shift shall start at 7:30a.m. The Company shall pay the extra half hour at average earnings (i.e., 11.5 hours worked, 12.0 hours paid to each shift) for each conversion shift.
15
12 HOUR CORE SHIFT SCHEDULE
Letter after OFF indicates designated crew for overtime coverage:
DD = DAY shift overtime coverage DN = NIGHT shift overtime coverage
Hrs. = Hours worked
6.02	In a period of reduced production for any reason, for more than a period of four (4) consecutive days duration, working hours in a department or in a group within a department, shall be maintained at a reasonable level by the application of the following subsections in their chronological order.
1.	Employees who have no seniority privileges shall be laid off before
the hours of employees who have seniority privileges are affected.
2.	if, with the layoff of employees as in Subsection 1, it is evident that hours will be less than normal weekly hours, then transferred employees who were transferred under 8.19 and have not attained residence rights will be transferred back to the department from which they were transferred.
3. if with the layoffs according to Subsection 1 and transfers according to Subsection 2, it is evident that available hours will be less than
16
normal weekly hours, then employees with seniority privileges will be laid off until a normal week is provided for the remaining employees.
Lay-offs made through the application of the above procedures in Sections 1, 2 and 3 are made in conjunction with the lay-off procedures laid down in Article VIII of this agreement.
6.03	The Union recognizes that it is the function of the Company to schedule hours of work and the employee's obligation to work the hours scheduled, provided the hours scheduled do not violate the "Employment Standards Act of the Province of Ontario" and regulations thereunder.
6.04	The Company agrees not to schedule less than four (4) hours work in any given shift, provided this shall not restrict the right of the Company to schedule less than four (4) hours under the provision of clause 6.07.
OVERTIME
6.05	The first eight hours worked on a scheduled day off in a pay week will be paid at time and one-half. All other hours worked on a scheduled day off in the same pay week will be paid at double time.
12 Hour Core Schedule Non-Voluntary Premium Shift Qualifier If an employee on a 12 hour shift schedule misses any one of or part of the scheduled shifts on a Saturday or Sunday, s/he is not eligible for premium payment for the scheduled overtime hours that Sunday unless the missed time is compensated time off for one of the following reasons: bereavement, floater, vacation, jury duty, or union business (i.e., pool of hours or Local Union paid time).
6.06	Hours worked in excess of scheduled shift hours in a twenty-four-hour period shall be compensated at the rate of time and one-half, excepting:
a)	When the hours of an employee exceed his/her normal daily hours because s/he substituted for another employee other than at the Company's request, changed his/her hours at his/her own request, or made a regular shift change. (A regular shift change normally occurs once per week).
b)	For time spent in meetings, however, time lost off the employee's standard shift due to attending meetings at the plant shall be considered as part of the normal shift hours in determining overtime on his/her regular shift.
c)	When an employee reports for work on his/her regular shift and if sent home before the end of his/her regular shift and is required to report back for work within the twenty-four (24) hour period, s/he shall be paid time and one-half for all hours worked on call-back beyond his/her normal stopping time of his/her regular shift.
d)	That overtime premium paid will not be paid twice for the same hours worked or paid for.
6.07	An employee who is called into work at any time between one-half (1/2) hour after s/he has left work and one (1) hour before his/her
17
normal starting time, shall be paid a minimum of four (4) hours at his/her overtime rate.
6.08	It is understood and agreed that normals as expressed in this Article are not to be construed as meaning hours of work that the Company will guarantee employees. It is, however, further understood and agreed that in the application of clause 6.02 where hours are less than normal and can reasonably be corrected by layoff of employees, then such employees will be laid off.
HOLIDAYS
6.09	An employee who qualifies will be paid for scheduled time lost or for eight (8) hours when not scheduled (Exception: a part time employee as defined in Clause 8.06 will only be paid for scheduled time lost) for the following holidays: New Year's Day, Good Friday, Victoria Day, Canada Day, Civic Holiday, Labour Day, Thanksgiving Day, Christmas Day, and Boxing Day.
Holidays shall be observed from 7: 00 a.m. the day of the holiday until 7:00 a.m. the day after the holiday. Example:	if the statutory holiday
falls on a Monday, the holiday will be observed from 7:00 a.m. Monday until 7:00 a.m. Tuesday. Exception:	Christmas, Boxing Day and New Years
(and Civic Holiday if moved to adjoin one of these) statutory holidays will start 7:00 p.m. the night before the holiday and end 7:00 p.m. on the day of the holiday. No S.U.B. will be payable for any resulting short pay/work week for any crew.
All holidays will be observed on the day upon which they fall on the calendar during the term of this agreement except for the Civic Holiday, which will be aligned by the Company with another Statutory Holiday to provide two consecutive days (48 hours) for required maintenance work.
If 48 hours is not required for such maintenance work by the Thanksgiving Day Statutory Holiday, the Civic Holiday will be observed the day following the Boxing Day Statutory Holiday.
When any of the holidays listed in this clause fall on an employee's scheduled day off, s/he will be paid for said holiday, if eligible, and will not be granted another scheduled day off.
Floating Holidays:
All employees (excluding students and replacement employees) will be credited with 24 hours of Floating Holiday which will be scheduled as two shifts for employees on a twelve hour shift schedule and three shifts for employees on an eight hour shift schedule. The company will grant a floater request for an open shift in the regular vacation schedule matrix with as little as 24 hours notice. Any other request for floater will be met only where business need and cost are not jeopardized.
Eligibility for Floating Holidays:
Employees must be actively employed and meet the following requirements to receive credit and payment for floating holidays:
Floaters for employees who move between 8 and 12 hour shift schedules within the year will have floater allowances adjusted to insure that no
18
more than 24 hours of floaters are taken or paid in a year.
12 Hour Shift Schedule - One floater equals one 12 hour shift.
4 months but less than 8 months worked	1 floater
in a calendar year
8	months or more worked in a calendar year 2 floaters
8	Hour Shift Schedule - one floater equals one 8 hour shift
2 months but less than 6 months worked	1 floater
in a calendar year
6 months but less than 9 months worked	2 floaters
in a calendar year
9	months or more worked in a calendar year 3 floaters
If an employee was granted and was paid for a floating holiday(s) and did not meet the eligibility requirements specified above, then payment made to the employee for which s/he did not meet the specified requirements, shall be withheld from the employee's final pay or must be reimbursed to the Company.
If an employee is eliqible, but is unable to schedule the above floater in, due to sickness or injury, payment of unused floaters shall be made
by the end of the current year.
5.10	In order for an employee to qualify for payment of wages for the paid holidays specified in clause 6.09 when not worked, s/he must report for work at the starting time of his/her shift and be prepared to work the scheduled hours of his/her shift on both the last scheduled work day preceding and the first scheduled work day following the paid holiday. The employee who thus qualifies shall be paid the hours as defined in 6.09 at his/her average earnings.
EXCEPTIONS:	An employee who is unable to report for work on the
qualifying days because:
1.	He was late reporting for work due to a reason beyond his/her control that is acceptable to the Company.
2. He is confined to a hospital or at home due to sickness or injury and is, therefore, in the Company's opinion, prevented from working. This exception is limited to two (2) paid holidays during the same confinement case and provided the employee is not entitled to payment under Workers' Compensation.
EXCEPTION: When two (2) paid holidays occur during the same two (2) day waiting period that an employee must wait before qualifying for a weekly indemnity payment under clause 4.02 of Article IV of the Insurance Program Agreement, such day or days shall be considered part of the waiting period.
If an employee is on sick leave and drawing sickness and accident benefits, the employee will be paid sick leave benefits for the
19
holidays for which he or she is entitled, and upon returning to work will be reimbursed the difference between what the employee was paid as sick benefits and what the employee would be paid for holiday pay.
3.	S/he has an approved Leave of Absence which will be granted under the following conditions:
The supervisor will, upon request, grant a Leave of Absence to an employee up to but not exceeding five (5) calendar days in order for an employee to attend:
a)	The funeral of the employee's mother, mother-in-law, father,
father-in-law,	sister, sister-in-law, brother, brother-in-law,
grandparents, great-grandparents, grandchildren, aunt, uncle, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, husband, wife, and blood or adopted children, and spouse's grandparents, great-grandparents, brother-in-law and sister-in-law.
b)	Ser ious illness in the employee's immediate family which shall
include such illness on the part of the employee's mother, mother-in-law, father, father-in-law, sister, brother, husband, wife, grandparents,	great-grandparents, grandchildren, son-in-law,
daughter-in-law, and blood or adopted children.
The employee who would otherwise have qualified except for the exceptions herein stated, shall be paid for such holidays.
6.11	Time worked on a paid holiday by the employee who qualifies for holiday pay shall be paid at the rate of double time in addition to the pay s/he would receive for the paid holiday.
6.12	An employee who fails to qualify for pay on the paid holiday and who works on such holiday shall be paid at the rate of double time for time worked.
6.13	An employee is entitled to holiday pay if the paid holiday occurs during his/her paid vacation leave, provided such employee works the last scheduled work day preceding and the first scheduled work day following his/her vacation leave and qualifies under conditions outlined in clause 6.10. Subject to mutual agreement, such employee may, if s/he so desires, be granted another day of leave within thirty (30) days before or after such holiday, provided such holiday does not occur during a shutdown period for vacation.
6.14	An employee will not be entitled to holiday pay while on leave of absence and such holiday occurs during his/her leave of absence excepting in a case where an employee is granted a leave of absence1 to attend a meeting or convention pertaining to Company or Union matters or other exceptions under leave of absences specifically provided in this Article.
6.15	An employee may request a leave of absence prior to and/or subsequent to a paid holiday. Department managers are authorized to grant a leave if such employee is not required to meet production requirements. Provided the leave is granted and is not in excess of seven (7) consecutive calendar days, the employee who otherwise qualifies shall be paid for such paid holiday.
20
6.16	An employee who is laid off on a date that is within five (5) normal working days immediately preceding the paid holiday specified in clause 6.09 shall be paid for such holiday.
6.17	When the plant or any part thereof suspends operations, the employee who is laid off for a definite period not exceeding two (2) calendar weeks because of such suspension, shall upon re-hire be paid for the paid holiday or holidays that occur during such lay-off provided s/he otherwise gualifies under the conditions outlined in clause 6.10.
6.18	The words, "holiday" or "holidays" as used in any and all clauses of this Agreement mean and include only those days specified in clause 6.09.
ARTICLE VII
WAGE POLICIES
7.01	Individual base rates and hourly rate ceilings in effect on the effective date of this Agreement shall remain in effect during the life of this Agreement, except that a change in any rate may be made by mutual agreement. Job descriptions will be accessible to the affected employees and the Union time study. The results of pending and future job evaluations will be shared with the Union.
It was agreed that the hourly rates of pay of the seven (7) groups, skilled trades and powerhouse engineers would be added as a reference at the end of the C.L.A. Company will provide a list of jobs and rates separately on an annual basis, with extra copies to be posted in the plant.
7.02	Incentive standards shall be established or revised in accordance with the time study practices of the Company which will provide for the accurate measurement of the physical effort required to perform operations.
The company retains the right to perform time study practices which involve the capturing of employee images for the purpose of work measurement. The company will insure that videos taken within the facility for the purpose of work measurement will be obtained on a voluntary basis wherever possible and will not be retained for any purpose other than validation of the standard. Images so obtained will not be used for discipline.
In the revision of an incentive standard, only the elements affected by a change in method, equipment, products, tools, materials, design, or other production conditions shall be revised.
Measured Daywork Standards for all other operations and jobs will be established in accordance with this paragraph to set expected production targets and work content expected for the various hourly-rated production and non-production jobs within the plant. Measured Daywork Standards differ from Incentive Standards in that they are not used to establish employees' earnings and are, therefore, not subject to any guaranteed elements and can be changed as necessary to meet changing needs. The overall intent is that eight (8) hours or twelve (12) hours work is
21
expected of each employee for eight (8) hours or twelve (12) hours pay.
Estimated Incentive Standards:	Estimated incentive standards may be
established and used for certain periods of time to provide incentive standard coverage on various operations until incentive standards are made effective. The life of an estimated standard is sixty (60) days, and can only be extended by mutual agreement.
When establishing an estimated incentive standard, a procedure covering the operation must be drafted before time studies are taken.
Estimated standards differ from permanent standards in that the elemental values are not guaranteed, and when replaced by a permanent standard, the values of the permanent standard can be established without any reference to the elemental values of the estimated standard.
All data for estimated standards is to be available to the Union upon request.
Grievances on estimated standards can be negotiated up to and including the third step level. If no agreement is reached at third step between the Company and the Union, the estimated standard shall be automatically cancelled. All meetings requested by the Union or the Company on procedures, explanations or protests shall be paid for at the customary hourly rate or base rate and average unit hour on the same basis as is now in effect on permanent standards.
Any increase negotiated on estimated standards shall be retroactive to the date of posting.
Estimated standards in effect in the various departments will be reviewed every two (2) months by the company and the Union, and the Industrial Engineering Department will be responsible for arranging these review meetings.
Where the earnings of an employee are lower than his/her "average earnings” during the above period, the Company shall upon request, replace such with:
a)	where an employee was paid on incentive immediately prior to the application of the estimated standard, payments in accordance with clause 7.17.
b)	where an employee was paid an hourly rate immediately prior to the
application of the estimated standard, his/her hourly rate.
It is recognized there may be temporary periods of time when incentive standards may not conform to the foregoing due to minor changes in work content which may increase or decrease the incentive standard in effect. In such instances, the Company shall have the right to either cancel or apply such standards and if an increase in effort is required, the Company shall allow time work for work added in addition to the incentive standard.
7.03	(a) No employee shall be paid in excess of a 76 unit hour except
that employees will have the opportunity to earn and be paid in excess of a 76 unit hour up to a maximum of a 85 unit hour with a clean time sheet.
22
Definition of a Clean Time Sheet:
A clean time sheet is a time sheet with no day work or lost time claimed but is comprised solely of work performed which is covered by incentive standards.
Exceptions to Clean Time Sheet Rule:
The following exceptions must be initialled by the employee's supervisor for payment beyond a 76 unit hour. If the employee's supervisor has not approved the claim, payment beyond a 76 unit hour will not be made:
(i)	attendance at a meeting requested by Management
(ii)	medical tests and safety drills as directed by Management or during safety work refusal per Ontario Health and Safety Act
(iii)	Employee Involvement meetings
(iv)	training in a controlled environment (for example, classroom)
(v)	experimental/developmental time - only lost time which was not covered by an incentive labour standard and this time must be verified by a staff individual in charge of the procedure as well as the employee's supervisor.
(vi)	Instructors/Teachers - time spent while instructing other employees
(vii)	Temporary Supervision
(viii)	Union Business
(ix)	first aid treatment (up to .3 hour)
(b) Special Bonus Plan for Incentive Employees
Incentive employees will be eligible for a bonus payment once attaining in excess of 6.4 hours on incentive at a 76 unit hour as detailed below:
(1)	For a regular eight (8) hour shift, bonus payment would be generated
on attainment of more than 6.4 hours on incentive at a 76 unit hour. For shifts of different	duration (e.g.	4 hours, 6 hours,	etc.),	this
threshold of more than 80%	at a	76 unit hour	will be applied	on a	pro-
rata basis.
Example:
4 hour shift - more than 3.2 hours on incentive at a 76 unit hour 6 hour shift - more than 4.8 hours on incentive at a 76 unit hour
(2)	Premium payments for overtime hours worked will apply as defined in Article VI. Employees working overtime on their job or similar job on which they are qualified and proficient will have their time sheets prorated for the calculation of bonus.
Example :
10	hour shift	- more	than	8.0 hours on	incentive at	a	76	unit	hour
12 hour shift	- more	than	9.6 hours on	incentive at	a	76	unit	hour
(3)	Glossary of Terms Threshold:
9.6 hours at a 76 unit hour or 729.6 units on incentive. This is
23
the established criteria which an employee must exceed under the bonus plan in order to be eligible for bonus.
Bonus Value:	Tire Building	$.00014800
Beads	$.00013700
This is a fixed number which will be used in the calculation of the Bonus Unit Value.
Bonus Unit Value:
(Units Generated on Incentive - Threshold) X Bonus Value
If the number equals zero (0) or is a negative value no bonus would be applicable.
Maximum Bonus Unit Value:
[912 units (12.0 hrs. @ 76 unit hour) - 729.6 units (Threshold)] X Bonus Value
(4)	Calculation of Bonus
[Total Incentive Units (up to 912 units) - Threshold] X Bonus Value X Total Incentive Units Generated on Incentive = Bonus to be Paid
BONUS PAYMENTS
Hours on Incentive
® 76 Unit Hour	Daily Bonus
Hrs.	Ubits		Tire Building	Beads B
9.6	729.6		$ .00	$ .00 A
9.7	737.2		.83	.76 I
9.8	744.8		1.68	1.54 I
9.9	752.4		2.54	2.34 |
10.0	760.0		3.42	3.15
10.1	767.6		4.32	3.98
10.2	775.2		5.23	4.82
10.3	782.8		6.16	5.68
10.4	790.4		7.11	6.56 I
10.5	798.0		8.08	7.45
10.6	805.6		9.06	8.35 |
10.7	813.2		10.06	9.28
10.8	820.8		11.08	10.21 |
10.9	828.4		12.11	11,17
11.0	836.0		13.16	12.14
11.1	843.6		14.23	13.12
11.2	851.2		15.32	14.12
11.3	858.8		16.42	15.14
11.4	866.4		17.54	16.17
24
874.0
18.68
17.22
11.6
881.6
19.83
18.29
11.7
889.2
21.00
19.37
11.8
896.8
22.19
20.46
11.9
904.4
23.40
21.57
12.0
960.0
( 80 unit Hour)
25.92
23.89
12.0
1020.0
27.54
25.39
12.0
1027.2
((85.685UnitUnitHour) Hour)
25.57
(5)	Time sheets will be prorated for the calculation of Bonus per the "Exceptions to Clean Time Sheet Rule" except, when temporarily reassigned per clause 7.18 (a), (b) or (c) , the employee must have attained 10.5 or more hours on incentive; when assigned under 7.18 (d) no proration shall occur.
7.04	Incentive standards may contain allowances for physically restricted increments of time or be supplemented by fixed process allowance to arrive at the incentive pay standard. The fact that supplementation may be currently necessary does not prohibit the Company from replacing supplementation with true physical work at some future time.
7.05	Prior to posting, the Company will provide copies of new or revised incentive standards to the Uhion. A new or revised incentive standard which has been posted for twenty-four (24) or more hours shall become effective at the starting time of the shift immediately following the posting of said standard. After an employee has worked on a new or revised incentive standard for a period of four (4) days but not exceeding fifteen (15) days, s/he may through his/her Steward, protest such standard by a written grievance to his/her Department/Area Manager. The grievances shall be negotiated to a final settlement.
Any adjustments or settlement made shall be retroactive to the date such a standard was made effective, but shall not apply to an employee not on the active payroll as of the date of the final settlement. An employee who is on leave of absence, pension, severance award, or laid off as of date of final settlement, shall be included.
Upon request of the Union, the Company shall make available at the Company's office, the time and pool sheets used in determining such retroactive pay. When an incentive standard becomes effective and there is less than four (4) days production, but more than twenty-four (24) hours production available in the following fifteen (15) working days, the twenty-four (24) hours of production shall be considered as the trial period. When there is less than twenty-four (24) hours production available in the fifteen (15) working days, the first shift production shall be considered as the trial period.
An incentive standard, or process allowance schedule, that is posted, tried and protested and because of protest is revised, shall not require a further trial period.
During the period of fifteen (15) working days after a new or revised
25
incentive standard has been posted, same may be revised provided an error has been made in compilation or all conditions pertaining to the establishment of such standard have not been studied.
The application or cancellation of	fixed process allowances for
physically restricted increments of time or variable process allowance schedules in connection with an incentive standard may be protested and negotiated under the same conditions as provided in this clause 7.05 for the protest and negotiations of incentive standards.
7.06	When a re-issued incentive standard is posted, it shall become effective twenty-four (24) hours following the posting of said standard.
7.07	When time studies are being taken for the purpose of establishing incentive standards or measured day work standards, job procedure (s) shall be posted forty-eight (48) hours prior to the study. No employee of the Company in an official administrative or supervisory capacity shall take part in any work performed by the employee while such studies are in progress.
7.08	When an incentive standard is protested and is under consideration at Step #3 of the grievance procedure, the Company, upon reguest of the Union, will permit a Time Study Engineer of the International Union, U.S.W.A. to make studies of the operation covered by the disputed incentive standard.
Such Union Time Study Engineer must be experienced in the time study practices of the Company and must use the Company work measurement techniques in his/her studies. Any such studies by said engineer shall be made in conjunction with a Time Study Engineer of the Company and if such studies are to be used in further negotiation and/or arbitration, a comparison of the results of the studies shall be made prior to or during further negotiations and/or arbitration procedure.
Upon request, pertinent time study data and other information used or related in determining any new, revised, or protested incentive standard will be made available to the Union for inspection in the Company's office.
7.09	The supervisor will notify the employee of a change made on the employee's time sheet where such changes will affect the employee's earnings. The employee shall be notified of such change on his/her next working shift, or as soon as possible and will be given a copy of time sheet in question.
If the change is of a recurring nature and the employee does not agree with the change and same is protested through the grievance procedure, the employee shall mark his/her time sheet as instructed by his/her supervisor until a final decision is rendered.
7.10	Average unit hour shall mean the arithmetic average paid unit hour including any bonus payments per clause 7.03 (b) for all work performed by the employee on his/her regular job during the last pay period in which s/he worked a majority of hours on such job covered by incentive standards that were not under protest and on which no special allowance or guarantee was paid. The bonus payment to be included will be calculated by dividing total bonus paid over the pay period by the total
26
number of incentive hours. When standards are protested between the fourth (4 th) and fifteenth (1.5th) day of the trial period specified in clause 7.05, such protest shall be deemed to have been in effect on the first day of the trial period for the purpose of applying this paragraph. Said average unit hour shall be established by the Company Payroll Department from the employee's weekly payroll card. Except that when it is not practical to determine the average unit hour by this procedure, such average unit hour will be determined by another mutually agreed procedure.
7.11	Average earnings shall mean total earnings, including any bonus payments per clause 7.03(b), excluding shift premium and overtime premium, paid the employee during the next last pay period divided by total hours worked during said pay period. Except that when it is not practical to determine average earnings by the above procedure, such average earnings will be determined by another mutually agreed procedure.
7.12	The hiring rates for new employees, including students and replacement employees, will be as defined in clause 7.32.
7.13	a) For eight hour shifts, a shift premium of fifty-five ($.55) cents per hour shall be paid for hours worked on the third shift (3:00 p.m. to 11:00 p.m.) and sixty (60) cents per hour for hours worked on the first shift (11:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m.). For twelve hour shifts, a shift premium of eighty ($.80) cents per hour shall be paid for hours worked on the night shift (7:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m.) The above shift premium for employees on the 12 hour core shift schedule, will be provided even if the Sunday assigned premium shift is withdrawn.
b)	Shift premium shall not be included in the calculations of an
employee's overtime rate.
c) A premium of $1.75 per shift shall be paid to each employee who is
required to hand over a running piece of equipment or operation to the next shift. This payment is in lieu of the five (5) minute wash-up time at shift end. When the Company wishes to discontinue this practice on a piece of equipment or operation, it will give twenty-four (24) hours notice where possible to the affected employees.
When an employee leaves his/her machine early to attend a meeting (including Employee Involvement or training), the premium shall be paid per the following:
I)	If an employee from the same shift is assigned to cover for an employee attending a meeting, the employee so assigned shall receive the premium.
II)	If an employee is requested to report for work early to cover for an employee attending a meeting, the employee leaving shall receive the premium.
III)	There must be a next shift in order for the premium to be paid.
IV)	No more than one "hand over" payment per machine per shift will be paid.
7.14	The company agrees to allow rest periods consisting of two breaks totalling 40 minutes (8 hour shift) and three breaks totalling 60 minutes (12 hour shift).
27
7.15	(a) When an employee is required to attend Special Meetings (such as, State of the Business, Plant Manager or those called by the Department/Area Manager), Employee Involvement Meetings, or on Union Business or Safety Committee business, s/he will be paid average earnings.
(b) Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, experienced employees will be paid the base rate or hourly rate of the job to which they are assigned and shall be guaranteed such base rate or hourly rate as minimum earnings.
SPECIAL PAYMENTS APPLYING TO EXPERIENCED INCENTIVE EMPLOYEES
7.16	Under certain conditions, experienced employees normally working
on incentive operations may be limited for temporary periods of time in their opportunity to maintain their normal incentive earnings. In such situations covered by clauses 7.17,	7.18,	7.19,	7.20,	7.21 and 7.22
listed below, employees shall be guaranteed special rate payments as provided herein. However, employees receiving any of the special rate payments listed below, are expected to perform at a level consistent with additional effort for which incentive payment is designed to compensate.
7.17	When an incentive employee is required to work on his/her regular job and there is no incentive standard available, s/he will be compensated at his/her average unit hour at his/her customary base rate.
7.18	When an incentive employee is temporarily assigned to a job and there is work available on his/her job, s/he shall be paid the greater of:
a) His/her average unit hour at his/her customary base rate, or
b) The rate of the job to which s/he is temporarily assigned if greater, or
c)	The base rate of the job to which s/he is temporarily assigned and the unit hour which s/he develops on such job.
d)	If assigned in class, the employee will receive no guarantee but will be paid the base rate of the job to which s/he is temporarily assigned and the unit hour and bonus s/he develops on such job.
Examples:
-	First step builder assigned to another first step machine
-	First step builder assigned to second step machine and is
qualified
-	Second step builder assigned to a first step machine and is
qualified.
-	Bead fill flip operator assigned to another fill flip machine
-	Assigned to any bead making equipment and is qualified
-	Assigned to any building machine first or second stage and is
qualified.
When there is a reduction in production and there is no work available to him/her on the job from which s/he was assigned, and provided s/he is
28
qualified, s/he shall be paid in accordance with (b) of this clause if to an hourly rated job or (c) of this clause if to an incentive job.
7.19	When an incentive employee is assigned to developmental or experimental work, s/he shall be paid his/her average earnings for the period of an assignment when s/he is specifically assigned to perform work of a special nature under the direct supervision of a member of supervision or the Technical staff, whether or not continuously present during the period such experimental work is in progress, for the express purpose of developing or experimenting on new manufacturing processes, as contrasted with routine changes in production methods. The time to be claimed on the employee's time sheet is the amount of lost time which was not covered by the incentive standard pertaining to the operation.
7.20	When an incentive employee is requested to remain in the plant and is idle due to mechanical delays, waiting on stock or orders, s/he shall be paid at seventy percent (70%) of his/her average unit hour at his/her customary base rate. However, when an employee accepts assigned work in place of enforced idleness, s/he shall be paid eighty percent (80%) of his/her average unit hour at his/her customary base rate.
In cases of idleness due to reasons other than those listed above, when an employee is assigned other work, s/he shall be paid as follows:
a)	If work is available on his/her job, s/he shall be paid in accordance with clause 7.18.
b)	If work is not available on his/her job, s/he shall be paid in accordance with this clause.
7.21	If the earnings of an incentive employee are reduced because of abnormal stock conditions, s/he will be paid for such amount of extra time required for the handling of the abnormal stock as is reasonable under the circumstances at seventy percent (70%) of his/her average unit hour; provided s/he has exercised an effort satisfactory to supervision under the circumstances. In order to benefit under this clause, the employee must report the stock condition to his/her supervisor at the time the condition occurs.
7.22	If an employee is assigned to a group operation on a temporary basis and because of this temporary assignment the experienced employees are prevented temporarily from producing normal earnings, the experienced employees shall be guaranteed their average unit hour for such period of time as may reasonably be required for the temporarily assigned employee to attain normal production. The temporarily assigned employee will be paid according to the wage payment clause applicable to his/her case.
7.23	If the circumstances are such that the assignment of an employee temporarily to a group operation should not be reasonable cause for any decrease in the group output, no guarantee shall be extended.
7.24	a) When the productive work of an incentive employee decreases without proper cause to less than only sixty (60) units per hour, the Company may pay only for actual productive work performed upon giving written notice to the employee and a copy to his/her Union Steward.
29
b)	In any instance where there is an unjustifiable decrease in the performance of an employee working on any of the guarantees set forth in Article VII, such guarantee may be withdrawn upon giving written notice to the employee and a copy to his/her Union Steward.
c)	When a guarantee is removed in accordance with (b) above, and it is not possible to measure the performance of the employee by an incentive standard applicable to the operation which s/he is performing, s/he will be paid sixty (60) units per hour.
PAYMENTS APPLYING TO HOURLY-RATED EMPLOYEES
7.25	When an hourly-rated employee is temporarily assigned work other than in his/her regular job, s/he shall be paid as follows:
1.	If s/he is assigned to a job on incentive, s/he will be paid the greater of:
a)	His/her regular job hourly rate, or
b)	The base rate of the job to which s/he is assigned and the unit
hour s/he produces.
2.	If s/he is assigned to an hourly-rated job, s/he will be paid as follows:
a)	If to a higher hourly-rated job on which s/he has experience and s/he produces at a level of performance required of an experienced employee, s/he will be paid at a rate determined by management which will not be below his/her regular job hourly rate or greater than the hourly rate of the job assigned.
b)	If to a lower hourly-rated job, s/he will be paid his/her regular job hourly rate.
c)	If to a job which has no established rate, s/he will be paid his/her regular job hourly rate.
PAYMENT APPLYING TO EXPERIENCED INCENTIVE & HOURLY-RATED EMPLOYEES
7.26	When an employee reports for work at his/her scheduled shift time without being notified to the contrary, or reports for work at a time requested by his/her supervisor and is assigned no work or works for a lesser period than four (4) hours because of some reason within the Company's control, payment shall be made for a minimum of four (4) hours. Incentive employees shall be paid seventy percent (70%) of their average unit hour at their customary base rate and hourly-rated employees shall be paid their customary hourly rate. It is understood that reporting for work means the employee is in his/her department ready for work, or personal contact is made with the supervisor at his/her scheduled starting time.
An employee shall be considered to have been properly notified if such notification is made by the company no later than one (1) hour before his/her scheduled starting time. Reporting for work pay will not be paid:
30
a)	When the opportunity to work temporarily on suitable jobs is refused.
b)	When an employee is absent from work for personal reasons not
covered by a leave of absence prior to reporting for work.
c)	Where an employee fails to record with his/her supervisor or
personnel office his/her current address or telephone number, and therefore, the Company is unable to notify him/her not to report for work.
d)	In cases of stoppage of work caused by labour disturbances
directly or indirectly within the plant.
e)	In cases caused by mechanical or electrical breakdowns where such substantially affect operations in a department or plant, catastrophe, fire, or any cause beyond the Company's control.
7.27	An employee on the payroll of the Company who is excused by the Company solely because of the death and funeral of a parent, parent-inlaw, son, daughter, brother, sister, husband, wife, grandparents, great-grandparents, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, or grandchildren of the employee, or the spouse's grandparents, great-grandparents, brother-in-law and sister-in-law (the category of relatives herein specified includes legal and blood relationships, half-relatives, and step-relatives and foster parent and foster child) s/he shall be compensated as follows:
a)	Incentive employee at his/her average earnings.
b)	Hourly-rated employee, at his/her customary hourly rate, for time so lost by him/her from his/her regular working schedule within the normal work week by reason of such absence, up to three consecutive calendar days for each such death centered around the funeral for a minimum of twenty-four (24) hours of scheduled work time off and pay to a maximum of 36 hours of scheduled time off and pay. For clarification purposes, if the funeral falls on the Saturday and the employee is scheduled to work, s/he is entitled to 36 hours of scheduled time off and pay; otherwise, s/he is entitled to 24 hours of scheduled time off with pay. (Except that on the death of an employee's registered spouse or dependent child, such employee shall be entitled to 36 hours of scheduled time off and pay.)
If, however, the funeral is not attended, s/he will be paid for lost time on only one of the above mentioned days.
This provision to apply when it is necessary for the employee to make arrangements and/or attend the funeral. If the employee is eligible for any other form of remuneration to which the Company contributes, payment shall not be made under this Section for such day or days.
It is understood that "in-law" relationships will be broken by divorce but not death of the blood relative who established the "in-law" relationship, unless and until the in-law relative or employee remarries.
7.28	An employee scheduled to take an accounting inventory shall be paid as follows:
31
a)	Incentive employee at his/her average unit hour at his/her customary base rate.
b)	Hourly-rated employee at his/her customary hourly rate.
Seniority employees in the department who are qualified will be offered such work from the normally scheduled shift.
Any other employees required shall be scheduled.
Every effort will be made to give an employee three (3) days notice of requirement before the scheduled day of inventory. No overtime premiums shall be paid for such work except under clause 6.05 or 6:06 if required.
7.29	An employee who reports for or serves on jury duty or subpoenaed witness for the crown shall be compensated the difference between the amount paid to him for such service as follows:
a)	Incentive employee at his/her average earnings.
b)	Hourly-rated employee at his/her customary rate, for time lost
from his/her scheduled work shift due to such service, provided:
1)	The employee notifies his/her supervisor within twenty-four (24) hours after the receipt of notice of selection.
2)	Furnishes the Company with a written statement signed by the appropriate public official which shall contain the dates, time served, and amount paid.
3)	Employee must serve as a juror or prospective juror four (4) or more hours to be exempt from working his/her daily shift.
Should an employee's scheduled vacation be affected due to his/her selection for jury duty or subpoenaed witness for the crown, his/her supervisor, upon request will reschedule the employee's vacation.
7.30	1) An employee who is injured or becomes sick in the factory and
who is required to obtain treatment at the Health Centre or who is required by the Company to obtain treatment at other medical locations, shall be paid only for such time lost during his/her work shift as follows:
(a)	(i) Experienced employees will be paid their average earnings.
(ii) Learners will be paid their average earnings in accordance with
the learning schedule.
(b)	Hourly-rated employee, at his/her customary hourly rate.
Payment will not be made to an employee receiving such medical treatment outside his/her regular working hours or on days on which s/he does not work.
2) Employees who, due to a blood test are removed from their regular job to another job at the request of the Medical Department, and for the purpose of rehabilitation so that they may return to their regular job, shall be compensated for time spent in such rehabilitation as follows:
32
(a)	(i) Experienced incentive employees at eighty percent (80%) of
their average unit hour.
(ii)	Experienced hourly rated employees at their regular hourly rate.
(b)	(i) Incentive learners at eighty percent (80%) of their average
earnings.
(ii)Hourly rated learners at the hourly rate of the learning schedule period to which the learner has progressed.
If after an employee is moved from his/her regular job, it is subsequently determined that s/he will not return to his/her regular job, payment per section 2) of this clause is cancelled and the employee shall be paid in accordance with the pertinent clause in Article VII.
An employee who is assigned by the Company during his/her working hours to obtain a blood or audiogram test, or other job-related medical examinations, shall be paid in accordance with 1 (a) of this clause if an incentive worker and l(b) of this clause if an hourly rated worker for the time so lost from his/her normal work shift.
When an employee is assigned at times other than above, s/he shall be paid for such time by a payment of one (1) hour at his/her average earnings (excluding overtime).
WAGE PAYMENTS FOR LEARNERS
7.31	For purposes of determining compensation in this Article, all employees are separated into two (2) categories:
Category A - employees with greater than 36 months of service Category B - employees with less than or equal to 36 months of service, hired after June 1. 1998.
Except as otherwise provided in clauses 7.30-7.39, when a Category A
employee is classified as a learner, all wage payments for which he/she qualifies under this Agreement, will be made at the rates provided in the "Learning Schedules for Transferred Employees Only" at the wage rate schedule for the job he/she is learning.
A Category B employee, whether classified as a learner or a certified employee, has his/her final compensation determined by applying the applicable pay clause in Article 7 of the Agreement first, then applying the applicable experience factor in clause 7.32.
For Category B employees working on an incentive post, incentive bonus earnings become part of final pay only upon certification or completion of the probationary period, whichever first occurs.
7.32	The wage payment schedule for new employees hired by the Company shall be subject to a thirty-six (36) month wage rate progression. Under this progressive scale, an experience factor will be applied to final pay amounts during the first three (3) years of employment according to the following scale:
•	(70%) of final pay	the first 6 months	accrued active
employment;
•	(75%) of final pay for months 7 through 12 inclusive of accrued active employment;
33


(80%) of final pay	months 13 through 18 inclusive of accrued
active employment:
(85%) of final pay for months 19 through 24 inclusive of accrued active employment;
(90%) of final pay for months 25 through 30 inclusive of accrued active employment;
(95%) of f inal pay for months 31 through 36 inclusive of accrued active employment;
At the beginning of the 37th month of employment, the experience factor will be set at 100% and will remain at this level for the remainder of the employees' full time active employment. Changes in the experience factor will be made with the start of the first pay period week following completion of each subsequent six (6) month period of employment.
Pinal pay as defined in this agreement is the sum of all elements that determine an employees hourly rate of pay which include, but are not limited to such factors as: job level, incentive bonus, curing efficiency bonus, shift premium, handover and COLA.
The incremental wage rate progression schedule described herein applies to all plant bargaining unit job classifications with the exception of those jobs covered under the multi-skilled wage payment rate schedules and Powerhouse operators wage payment rate schedules.
If, during the life of the Agreement, the Company determines that the seventy percent (70%) starting pay rate is inadequate to attract new employees, at its own discretion, it may raise said rate and adjust the six (6) month increase percentage rate proportionally over the thirty-six (36) month progression schedule. Should such an increase be made, the same level of adjustment shall also be made to rates of new employees already in the progression schedule.
The experience factor for new employees within the incremental wage progression scale described herein shall also be applied to all wage payment made for the time not worked, including holidays, bereavement, jury duty, floaters, etc..., wherever an average hourly earnings is
applicable under the terms of the agreement.
7.33	When an employee is classified as a learner because s/he is transferred from his/her former job when no work is available, to equalize hours, to fulfil seniority requirements, or at his/her own option, s/he will if s/he has three (3) months or more of credited service be paid in accordance with the learning schedule for transferred employees. Transferred employees may move to experienced rate upon completion of full learning schedule period or certification whichever occurs first.
7.34 When an employee is classified as a learner because s/he is transferred at management's request and there is work remaining available on the job from which s/he transfers, s/he shall be paid as follows:
(a)	If s/he is transferred to a job on incentive, s/he shall be paid the base rate of the job to which s/he is transferred, and the unit hour s/he produces except that s/he shall be guaranteed his/her former regular job base rate at his/her average unit hour or his/her former
34
regular job hourly rate for a period not to exceed the learning period of the job to which s/he is transferred.
(b)	If s/he is transferred to a higher hourly-rated job, s/he shall be paid in accordance with the learning schedule of that job, but shall be guaranteed his/her former regular job base rate at his/her average unit hour or his/her former regular job hourly rate for a period not to exceed the learning period of the job to which s/he is transferred.
7.35	A le arner who reports for or serves on jury duty or subpoenaed witness for the crown shall be compensated for the time lost from his/her scheduled work shift for such service, the difference between the amount paid to him/her for such service and the payment s/he would have received as a learner had s/he worked such time, provided:
(a)	The employee notifies his/her supervisor within twenty-four (24)
hours after the receipt of notice of selection.
(b)	Furnishes the Company with a written Statement signed by the
appropriate public official which shall contain the dates, time served, and the amount paid.
(c)	Employee must serve as a juror or prospective juror four (4) or more
hours to be exempt from working his/her daily shift.
Should an employee's scheduled vacation be affected due to his/her selection for jury duty or subpoenaed witness for the crown, his/her supervisor, upon request, will reschedule the employee's vacation.
7.36	When a learner is temporarily assigned work other than which s/he is learning, s/he shall be paid as follows:
(a)	If s/he is assigned to an incentive job on which s/he has qualified
experience and s/he produces a level of performance required of an experienced employee, s/he shall be paid the average paid unit hour of the other employees on the job at the base rate of the job, or the unit hour s/he develops at the base rate of the job, whichever is higher. If s/he lacks experience on the incentive job, s/he shall be paid the learning schedule guarantee of the job from which s/he is temporarily assigned or the base rate of the job to which s/he is assigned, whichever is higher.
(b)	If s/he is assigned to an hourly-rated job on which s/he has
qualified experience and s/he produces a level of performance required of an experienced employee, s/he shall be paid the hourly rate of, the job. If s/he lacks experience on the hourly-rated job, to which s/he is assigned, s/he shall be paid the learning schedule guarantee of the job from which s/he is assigned, or the base rate for the hourly-rated job, whichever is higher.
7.37	When a learner is transferred during his/her learning period to another job, s/he shall be paid as follows:
(a) If in the first or second period of his/her learning schedule, s/he will enter the first period of the learning schedule of the job to which s/he is transferred.
35
(b) If in the third or subsequent periods of his/her learning schedule, s/he will enter the next preceding period of the learning schedule from which s/he was transferred.
7.38	When learners are employed in single or group operations, payments shall conform to the policy relative to the payment of learners, special teachers, and experienced employees in groups which is as follows:
1.	To calculate the total group earned or paid units, the following procedure will be used:
(a)	To calculate total earned units with no allowance schedule:
Total production times the incentive standard equals the total earned units.
(b)	To calculate total pay units with an allowance schedule:
Total production times the incentive standard equals the total earned units.
Total earned units divided by the non-teaching experienced hours equals the earned unit hours.
The earned unit hour modified by the allowance schedule equals the paid unit hour.
The paid unit hour times the non-teaching experienced hour equals the total group paid units.
(c)	To calculate the total pay units on operations with a variable capacity attainment schedule:
(I)	Total units of production multiplied by allowed minutes per unit of production equals total allowed minutes.
(II)	Total allowed minutes divided by total chargeable minutes
equals per cent of capacity attainment.
(III)	Apply variable capacity attainment schedule to per cent of capacity attainment to determine pay unit hour.
(IV)	Pay unit hour multiplied by total chargeable hours equals
total pay units.
2.	Allowance schedules will not apply to learners except on those days during the learning period when a learner on an incentive schedule earns in excess of a sixty (60) unit hour or the unit maximum, whichever is applicable. Under this circumstance, the process allowance schedule indicated on the bulletin sheet for the operation will be applied.
3.	The payment of learners, special teachers, and experienced employees
PAYMENTS APPLY AND EXPERIENCED
IN SINGLE OR GROUP OPERATIONS
36
working on single or group operations will comply with the following procedures as they apply:
(a)	Learner working on an individual operation on which a special teacher has been designated:
(i)	Production and hours shall be reported on a group time sheet.
(ii)	The special teacher shall be guaranteed his/her average unit hour at his/her customary base rate.
(iii)	The total earned or paid units shall be credited to the special teacher up to his/her average unit hour at his/her customary base rate.
(iv)	Any remaining units shall be credited to the learner up to the special teacher's average unit hour.
(v)	All remaining units shall be distributed equally among the learner and the special teacher.
(b)	Two-person group operation where a learner or learners are working with one experienced employee:
(i)	A group time sheet shall be used to report hours and production.
(ii)	The experienced employee shall be designated as the special teacher and shall be paid his/her average unit hour at his/her customary base rate.
(iii)	The experienced employee shall be credited with the total earned or paid units up to his/her average unit hour at his/her customary base rate.
(iv)	Any remaining units shall be credited to the learner or learners up to the unit hour of the experienced employee.
(v)	All remaining units shall be distributed equally among learner or learners and the experienced employee.
(Vi) In this group only, the special teacher's hours will be considered as the non-teaching experienced hours for determining the earned unit hour for process allowance application.
(c)	Two-person group operation where a learner or learners are working with two experienced employees:
(i) The production and hours shall be reported on a group time sheet.
(ii)	One of the experienced employees shall be designated as a special teacher and shall be paid his/her average unit hour at his/her customary base rate.
37
(iii)	The total earned or paid units shall be credited to the non-teaching experienced employee up to his/her average unit hour at his/her customary base rate.
(iv)	Any remaining units shall be credited to the special teacher up to his/her average unit hour at his/her customary base rate.
(v)	Any remaining units shall be credited to the learner or learners up to the lowest average unit hour of the experienced employees.
(vi)	All remaining units shall be distributed equally among the experienced employee and the learner or learners.
(d)	A learner or learners working with experienced employees on group operations normally requiring three or more employees.
(i) The production and hours shall be reported on a group time sheet.
(ii) One experienced employee shall be designated as special teacher and shall be guaranteed his/her average unit hour at his/her customary base rate.
(iii)	The total earned or paid units shall be credited to the non-teaching, experienced employees up to their average unit hour at their customary base rate.
(iv)	Any remaining units shall be credited to the special teacher up to his/her average unit hour at his/her customary base rate.
(v)	Any remaining units shall be credited to the learner or learners up to the lowest average unit hour of the experienced employee.
(vi)	All remaining units shall be distributed equally among the learner or learners and experienced employees.
7.39	Learning schedules as expressed in this Article shall mean where such are in effect.
SPECIAL ALLOWANCE FOR INCENTIVE AND HOURLY-RATED EMPLOYEES
7.40	(a) All employees are entitled to a wash-up time to be taken five (5) minutes prior to the end of their normal shift unless on a designated continuous running operation where clause 7.13 (c) will apply.
(b) An employee who is assigned to an excessively dirty job, or working with designated substances, will be permitted time off for wash-up. It is understood that the Company will exercise the primary control of the time and occurrence of this payment.
7.41	No full-time or part-time supervisor or salaried employee shall normally perform work that would be done by employees within the
38
bargaining unit.
ARTICLE VIII SENIORITY
8.01	For Seniority purposes, employees with the same credited service date will have their respective seniority determined by a drawing of numbers.
8.02	Each employee in order to benefit by the seniority provisions of this Agreement, must keep the Company informed of his/her current address and telephone number at all times by notifying the Company as follows:
(a)	An employee on the active payroll will notify his/her supervisor by signing the form available.
(b)	Former employees who are subject to recall will notify the Personnel Office.
(c)	Failure to comply with the foregoing could mean a loss of overtime offering, Supplementary Unemployment Benefits, call-in pay or transfer consideration, or a possible delay in recall.
8.03	The Company will maintain a service list in each department, in view of all employees, showing the Company service date and the department service date of each member of the department.
8.04	An employee's hiring date shall be the date of the employee's first working day for the Company, but same shall be changed when required by other clauses in this Agreement.
8.05	An employee shall not acquire seniority privileges until s/he completes three (3) months service with the Company, at which time his/her hiring date shall be deemed to be his/her Company service date and such service shall be deemed to be "credited service". An employee with three (3) or more months continuous Company service shall enjoy back service credit as set forth in Clause 8.15. The three (3) months referred to in this clause shall be deemed the probationary period for all employees.
8.06	When a full-time employee changes his/her status to a part- time employee, s/he shall receive credit for service up to the date of change. when such employee returns to full-time employment, s/he shall receive credit only for the time while employed as a full-time employee.
An employee accepting part-time employment in place of lay-off shall be considered as a laid off employee in determination of credited service while employed as such.
An employee who is required to temporarily work less than normal hours due to his/her personal health, shall be considered a full-time employee for the purpose of accumulating credited service only during such rehabilitation period.
8.07	An employee shall have job seniority when s/he completes three (3) months of continuous credited service on the job on which s/he is hired
39
or to which s/he is transferred, at which time his/her credited service shall be deemed to be his/her job seniority. An employee who is transferred to replace an employee on leave of absence under Clause 10.06 shall be considered an employee on loan for such period.
8.08	When an employee has job seniority and is transferred s/he shall continue to accumulate job seniority on such job until s/he acquires job seniority on the job to which s/he is transferred.
8.09	Notwithstanding Clause 8.07 and 8.08, an employee who has job seniority and who is transferred in accordance with Clause 8.11 and the job on which s/he had job seniority becomes open within two years from the date of his/her transfer from such job shall return to his/her job provided no employee has prior rights under clause 8.13. The employee who thus returns shall be credited with his/her job seniority on such job as of his/her date of return. This Clause shall not apply where an employee is transferred under 8.11 and exercises job progression or transfers under 8.19 within the two (2) years herein specified.
8.10	An employee shall have residence rights when s/he completes three (3) months of continuous credited service in the department in which s/he is hired or to which s/he is transferred.
8.11	When it becomes necessary to lay-off employees, in a job classification, employees who have no seniority privileges will be laid off first. If after the layoff of such employees a further layoff is necessary, then employees with seniority privileges will be laid off in accordance with their seniority as follows:
For the purpose of layoff, there are two (2) types of jobs:
(1)	Classified
(2)	General
which are listed under a supplemental agreement. In accordance with the procedures herewith set forth, an employee who is subject to layoff from his/her job will displace the employee with the least amount of credited service among those employees who have less credited service.
An employee must have "qualified experience" on a classified job in order to exercise any bumping rights on such job. "Qualified experience" shall mean that the employee has worked on the job or similar jobs as defined in this Clause, and providing that his/her productivity is equivalent to that of an average employee on such job or jobs.
An employee who is subject to layoff in a group operation and who has qualified experience on more than one job in such group, and provided s/he has job seniority on a job within the group, shall first displace an employee in the group in the reverse order of "job progression" (which are listed under a supplemental agreement) for such group but shall not displace an employee with more credited service. Failing placement in the group, s/he shall follow the procedure.
Application of the procedures laid down in Clause 6.02 of Article VI are to be made in conjunction with lay-offs under Article VIII of this Agreement.
40
The Company and Union agree:
(a)	to review and update all general and classified jobs before December 31, 1998; and
(b)	all revised job progressions will be developed by the Steward and Department Manager and then approved and signed by the Union President and Manager Industrial Relations or their designates prior to implementation.
TEE PROCEDURE
A An employee who was not transferred into the department and who has three or more months of credited service shall, in the event of layoff, displace employees with less credited service in the following order:
1)	On Classified jobs in the department
2)	On general jobs in the department.
EXCEPTION:	An employee who has obtained qualified experience in
other departments in the division through other transfers shall be placed under "B" in place of this section "A".
B An employee who has been transferred into a department and has acquired job seniority in said department, shall in the event of layoff, displace employees with less credited service in the following order:
1)	On classified jobs in the department
2)	On general jobs in the department
3)	On classified jobs in the division
C An employee who has been transferred into a department and has acquired residence rights but not job seniority in said department and has job seniority in some other department, shall in the event of a layoff displace employees with less credited service in the following order:
1)	On classified jobs in his/her resident department.
2)	On the classified job on which s/he has acquired job seniority.
3)	On classified jobs in the department in which s/he has acquired
job seniority.
4)	On classified jobs in the division in which s/he has acquired job
seniority.
5)	On general jobs in the department in which s/he has acquired job
seniority.
D An employee who has been transferred into a department and has acquired residence rights but not job seniority in said department
41
and has job seniority in some other department, but the job on which s/he has job seniority has been eliminated shall in the event of layoff, displace employees with less credited service in the following order:
1) On classified jobs in his/her resident department.
2) On classified jobs in his/her resident division.
3)	On general jobs in his/her resident department.
E An employee who has been transferred into a department but has not acquired resident rights in said department and has job seniority in some other department shall in the event of layoff, displace employees with less credited service in the following order:
1)	On the classified job on which s/he has acquired job seniority.
2)	On classified jobs in the department in which s/he has acquired
job seniority.
3)	On classified jobs in the division in which s/he has acquired job
seniority.
4)	On general jobs in the department in which s/he has acquired job
seniority.
F An employee who has been transferred into a department but has not acquired resident rights in said department and has job seniority in some other department but:
a)	The job on which s/he has job seniority has been eliminated, shall, in the event of layoff, displace employees with less credited service in the following order:
1)	On classified jobs in the department in which s/he had job seniority.
2)	On classified jobs in the division in which s/he had acquired
job seniority.
3)	On general jobs in the department in which s/he had acquired job seniority.
b)	The department in which s/he had acquired job seniority has been
eliminated, shall in the event of layoff, displace employees with less credited service in the following order:
1)	On classified jobs in the division in which s/he had acquired job seniority.
2)	On general jobs in the department in which s/he had the most service
in the division in which s/he had acquired seniority.	'
G An employee who has been transferred into a department but has not acquired residence rights in said department and who has residence rights but not job seniority in some other department shall, in the event of layoff, displace employees with less credited service in the following order:
1) On classified jobs in the department in which s/he has acquired residence rights.
42
2)	On classified jobs in the division in which s/he has acquired
residence rights.
3)	On general jobs in the department in which s/he has acquired
residence rights.
H An employee who has three or more months of credited service and who has been transferred into a department but has acquired no residence rights in any department, shall in the event of layoff, displace employees with less credited service in the following order:
1)	On classified jobs in the department from which s/he was last
transferred.
2)	On classified jobs in the division from which s/he was last
transferred.
3)	On general jobs in the department from which s/he was last
transferred.
I	An employee who has three or more months of credited service and who has been transferred into a department but has acquired no residence rights in any department, and the department from which s/he was last transferred has been eliminated, shall in the event of layoff, displace employees with less credited service in the following order:
1)	On classified jobs in the division from which s/he was last
transferred.
2)	On general jobs in the department in which s/he has the most
service in the division from which s/he was last transferred.
J When an employee with two (2) or more years of credited service has exhausted his/her rights under the foregoing procedures in this clause and would otherwise be laid off, s/he shall displace the employee with the least credited service in the following order, provided s/he has more credited service and is capable and/or qualified of performing the job of such lesser credited service employee:
1)	On classified jobs in the factory on which s/he has qualified
experience.
2)	On general jobs in the factory.
EXCEPTION:	Employees on mill operations in Department 64521, 64533
and 64531 shall first displace employees on such mills before application of J: 1 and 2.
K Notwithstanding the foregoing, the parties may by mutual agreement permit an employee who would displace an employee with the least amount of credited service on a general job, to displace any employee with less credited service than s/he has on a general job.
For the purpose of this clause, departments are grouped in the following divisions:
I Mixing
Extruding
Calendering
Department 64521 64533 64531
43
Receiving and Raw Stores Cement House
Physical Testing Laboratory
II	Tire Preparation Tire Building
III	Tire Curing Final Finish Quality Assurance
IV	Maintenance Power House Floor Space
V	Warehouse
8.12	The Department/Area Manager shall review the list of layoffs of seniority and employees with the department Steward and the President or Vice-President of the Union in order to avoid any error.
8.13	An employee on layoff who has recall rights shall be recalled to job vacancies by the application of the reverse procedure of layoff as set forth in Clause 8.11. An employee who has been transferred under Clause 8.11, and is not located on the job on which s/he has job seniority at the time of a vacancy occurring on a job on which s/he has qualified experience, shall be returned to such vacancy in line with his/her credited service before any move under job progression or application under Clause 8.19 is honoured.
When a job vacancy occurs on a general job in the plant, the employee on layoff from the plant, with the most credited service among those that have one (1) or more years of credited service, shall be recalled to such a vacancy before an application for transfer under Clause 8.19 is honoured.
8.14	Before hiring a new employee, the Company will give preference to qualified employees who are on layoff and who have recall rights.
8.15	An employee who has three or more months of Company service at time of layoff and who is rehired to a job other than the job from which s/he was laid off, shall be considered a transferred employee.
8.16	In no case of termination of employment, other than surplus help lay off, will back service be credited on rehire. An employee who has less than three (3) months continuous company service at date of layoff will not be credited with back service on rehire. An employee who has three (3) months continuous company service but less than two (2) years' credited service at date of layoff, will on rehire be credited with time spent on layoff provided s/he is rehired within twelve (12) months of date of layoff.
An employee with two (2) or more years of credited service at date of layoff and who is not rehired within twelve (12) months of layoff but who is rehired within the period of his/her recall rights hereunder
64141
64523
64151
64541
64551
64561
64571
64943
64131
64133
64135
83511
44
specified, shall upon rehire be credited only with the credited service s/he would have at the end of the twelfth (12th) month on layoff.
A An employee who has three (3) or more months but less than two (2) years of credited service at date of layoff shall have recall rights for twelve (12) months from date of layoff.
B An employee who has two (2) or more but less than five (5) years of credited service at date of layoff shall have recall rights for twenty-four (24) months from the date of his/her layoff.
C An employee who has five (5) or more years of credited service at date of layoff shall have recall rights for five (5) years from the date of his/her layoff.
D An employee to retain his/her recall rights must register at the Personnel Office in person or by registered letter, indicating whether or not s/he wishes to retain his/her recall rights, during the first thirteenth (13th) month on layoff and thereafter during the thirty (30) days following each annual anniversary date from his/her layoff.
E Employees who have seniority privileges shall at the time of layoff be informed by the Personnel Department of their recall rights. Subject to the above, time spent on layoff shall on rehire be credited to the job on which the employee worked immediately prior to layoff provided s/he is rehired to the same job.
F In the event s/he is not rehired to the job on which s/he worked immediately prior to layoff, time spent on layoff shall, on rehire, be credited:
1)	If s/he has job seniority to such job.
2)	If s/he has no job seniority to the job on which s/he first
accumulates job seniority.
G An employee who is rehired during the term of this Agreement and who provides satisfactory proof that s/he has an improper service date shall have same rectified.
8.17	An employee notified of recall must present themselves for work within two (2) working days, excluding Saturday and Sunday, from the date the registered letter sent by the company is delivered to his/her last recorded address. However, if an employee who has gained employment elsewhere during layoff is recalled, s/he shall report within seven (7) working days. Failing to do so shall cancel all back service. However, should s/he present him/herself within thirty (30) days of 'the date of such registered letter with a reasonable excuse for failure to present themselves within the above two (2) or seven (7) working days, his/her credited service shall be kept intact, and s/he shall be notified of the next vacancy to which s/he is entitled under clause 8.13. This thirty (30) day extension is limited to the first notification. Date of registered letter above is the date such letter is delivered to the employee's last recorded address.
45
8.18	Back service credit of an employee shall be terminated when s/he refuses a job to which s/he is entitled on recall under clause 8.13.
8.19	When an employee with one (1) year of Company service wishes to transfer from his job to a similar job or to another job within the bargaining unit, s/he shall make a written application for such job to his/her department/area manager.
When an employee resigns, is discharged, or an opening occurs due to transfer, the original vacancy only will be posted in the department in which such vacancy occurs and in the main entrance for seven (7) days from the end of the shift such notification is given (exclusive of holidays) before being filled. After this seven-day (7-day) period, the job will be closed off. Any transfers received after the aforementioned period of time will not be honoured. The application must contain the date and time of the day it is received by the supervisor. The department/area manager will, within one working day, forward the application to the Personnel Department.
An employee shall not have more than one such application pending, excepting an application to the Skilled Trades Training Program.
In the event of a permanent vacancy which:
(a)	Is not filled by job progression, where such is in effect,
(b)	No employee has recall rights under clause 8.13,
(c)	No employee has replacement rights under clause 8.22
the employee with the most credited service on the list of applicants who meets the basic requirements and is capable of performing the job will be offered the job. Basic requirements means level of verifiable aptitude necessary to meet job requirements as determined through testing if necessary. Specialized jobs for testing, such as:	Apprentices, Waste
Recovery Specialist, Utility, Lab Technician, Quality personnel, Builder Specialist, Storekeeper, Counter-verifier.
A)	The tests given to employees who apply for specialized jobs in the bargaining unit shall be reviewed upon request with the Local Union President and/or designated representative.
B)	The reasons for an employees failure to qualify for a specialized job within the bargaining unit shall be reviewed, upon request with the Local Union President and/or designated representative with the employees' written permission.
An employee whose transfer has been honoured may be held on the job from which s/he has made transfer for a period of time equal to the learning schedule of such job but not exceeding two (2) months from the date on which the transfer was honoured. A second transfer for the same employee within a six (6) month period may at management's discretion be delayed for a period not to exceed six (6) months from the date of original transfer with no more than five (5) transfers allowed within a thirty-six (36) month period. If the employee refused this offer, his/her application for the job shall be cancelled and s/he will be ineligible for transfer consideration for six (6) months from date of such refusal.
46
The employee will acknowledge acceptance or refusal by signing the transfer form.
Exception - Bidding/Bumping (July 11, 1991 Memorandum) :
It is agreed that the following is intended to apply except to the extent that it is temporarily affected by the transition agreement which will be written to ensure we maintain our customer base during the consolidation of Kitchener North resources into the facility. When the Company needs to balance workloads among or between different operations and open entry level positions need to be filled when employees (with three (3) years or less seniority) are available from other operations, the Company will move the available employee(s) directly to the open position(s) after job progression has taken place.
Exception For Maintenance Division:
An employee who desires to be transferred to a vacancy in a classified job under this clause, must as well as being capable, also have qualified experience to have his/her application considered. "Qualified experience" in this instance will also include such experience acquired in other than the bargaining unit. Before hiring a new employee in these classifications, the Company shall give consideration to applications on file from employees in the bargaining unit.
8.20	Employees may be loaned from one job to another for a period not to exceed four (4) consecutive weeks: such time may be extended by mutual agreement. If the employee is transferred to such job while on loan, his/her transfer date shall be that of the first day of loan. Employees who are placed on jobs for rehabilitation purposes after outside injuries or who replace loaned employees, shall be classified as loaned employees. The Steward of the department and the employee who is on a loan basis shall be notified in writing by the Department/Area Manager giving the reason for such.
8.21	When an operation or group of operations is transferred to another department and the employee is transferred with the operation or equipment, time spent on the job and in the department from which transfer occurs shall be deemed to be time spent in the department to which s/he is transferred. If removed from the operation or equipment before s/he establishes either job seniority or residence rights, s/he shall have the status of a regular transferred employee as of the date of transfer into the new department.
8.22	Where a department or an operation within a department is permanently discontinued, the employee who is not placed under Clause 8.11 shall be transferred on the basis of his/her credited service to a vacancy which is not filled by job progression where such is in effect and for which no one has recall rights under clause 8.13.
If there is no vacancy, s/he may displace the employee with the least credited service in the same division on work for which s/he is qualified and capable of performing, providing s/he has more credited service than such employee.
An employee who is transferred because of reclassification, shall have
47
his/her service on the job to which s/he is transferred as of date of transfer.
Where an operation, group of operations or department has been classified as discontinued and same is subsequently reinstated, employees who have been transferred from such shall be given the opportunity of returning on the basis of seniority provided less than two (2) years has elapsed from date of such transfer.
8.23	Employees may be returned from supervisory or salaried employment to the bargaining unit at the discretion of the Company under the following conditions:
1) Employees who have transferred from the bargaining unit to
supervisory or salaried employment must be resident within the "Kitchener" plant in order to be eligible to return to the bargaining unit.
2) Employees who have transferred from the bargaining unit to a
supervisory or salaried position and who have:
(a)	up to 12 months service in a salaried position shall return to the
job where they had job seniority at the time of their transfer but shall not displace employees who have more credited service. If such job has been eliminated they shall be placed in accordance with Clause 8.11.
(b)	greater than 12 months service up to 24 months service in a
salaried position shall return to the lowest seniority job, first, in the department from which they came and second, in the plant, but shall not displace employees who have more credited service.
(c)	greater than twenty-four (24) months will no longer be eligible to
return to the bargaining unit.
Time spent on supervisory or salaried employment shall be credited in (a) above to the department and job where they held job seniority at time of transfer and in (b) above to the department and job on which they are placed.
If placed under Clause 8.11, they will be immediately credited with their prior credited service in the bargaining unit and upon completion of three (3) months service in accordance with Clause 8.07, will be further credited with the service attained on supervisory or salaried employment.
Supervisory or salaried employees returned to the bargaining unit per the above will not result in the layoff of a bargaining unit employee.
8.24	Operations of the plant are conducted on a rotating shift basis, therefore, there shall be no shift preference. Permanent shifts may be assigned only to employees having ten or more years of credited service, and then only if all employees on the shifts affected agree to the assignment, but such will not be implemented unless mutually agreed to by the Company and the Union.
8.25	Notwithstanding the provisions of this Article, management may
48
place employees under the following conditions:
1)	Where an employee is fully qualified to perform an operation for
which no other employee can qualify without long training.
2)	Where the medical department for the purpose of rehabilitating a factory-injured employee requires that s/he be kept at work, or an employee as a result of a factory injury has a permanent partial dieability but performs the work to which s/he has been assigned in a manner satisfactory to management. However, in either case, the injured employee shall not displace employees having more credited service. Where an employee who has a temporary disability due to a factory injury is temporarily placed on a job other than his/her job classification, such time shall be credited to his/her regular job held prior to such injury.
3)	Where an employee is on leave of absence due to illness or injury,
and returns to work, s/he shall be reinstated to his/her former job on the basis of seniority, provided s/he is capable.
4)	Where an employee who has returned from military service requires
special handling for rehabilitation; however, such employee shall not displace an employee having more credited service.
5)	Where an employee cannot perform satisfactory work due to age, health, or other physical conditions, such employee shall be transferred to other work which is more suitable, if such work is available. However, the employee so transferred shall not displace an employee who has more credited service.
8.26	when it becomes necessary to lay off an employee, s/he shall be notified wherever possible, seven (7) calendar days in advance of layoff. An employee desiring to leave the employ of the Company shall give seven (7) calendar days notice if at all possible.
8.27	Qualifications as referred to in Article VII and Article VIII of
this agreement shall be determined by the Company on the basis of such items as:	experience, physical and mental capability, skill, adapt-
ability, knowledge, responsibility, efficiency, attitude and integrity, subject to the grievance procedure.
8.28	The Company agrees to furnish the President of Local #677 with three (3) copies of a plant wide seniority list and a master list annually and to supply changes, if any, each three (3) months.
8.29	The Company has granted a "Skilled Trades Training Program" which is listed under a Supplemental Agreement.
ARTICLE IX PLANT MANAGEMENT
9.01	The Union recognizes that the operating of the plant and the full direction of the working forces is the exclusive function and responsibility of the Company. Without restricting the generality of the foregoing:
49
a)	It is the exclusive function of the Company to manage the industrial enterprise in which it is engaged, and to determine the number and location of plants, the products to be manufactured, the methods of manufacturing, schedules of production, kinds and locations of machines, tools to be used, processes of manufacturing and assembling, the engineering and designs of its products and the control of materials and parts to be incorporated in the products produced.
b)	It is the exclusive function of management to maintain order,
discipline, and efficiency and to hire, discharge, transfer, promote, demote, or discipline employees and to determine and establish standards of performance for all machines, employees, and operations.
9.02	Each employee shall give his/her undivided attention to the work assigned to him/her by the company throughout his/her work shift.
9.03	A record card covering each year of an employee's service is maintained for the purpose of recording his/her attendance, performance, and miscellaneous pertinent facts concerning his/her work record. No derogatory notation may be placed on his/her card without first notifying the employee concerned. In the event of a grievance regarding disciplinary action, a copy of said record card and attachments to the record card which pertain to discipline will be provided to the union upon the written permission of the subject employee.
9.04	Reprimand and derogatory notations placed on an employee's card by his/her supervisor are to be signed by the employee concerned. If the employee refuses to sign such notation, the supervisor will within five (5) calendar days of such refusal, give the employee a written copy of the notation. The problem can then be negotiated, provided a written grievance is received within five (5) calendar days from the date of the written copy of the notation. If no grievance is received within the time limits as herein expressed, the notation will remain on the employee's record card as accepted. If the supervisor fails to give the employee a written copy of the notation within the time limits as herein expressed, the notation will be removed from the employee's record card.
Reprimands for offences such as illegal strike, slowdown, work stoppage, refusal to follow reasonable instructions from a supervisor and/or to respect supervisor's authority, fighting with other employees, if not repeated within TWO (2) years will be disregarded in the administration of discipline. All other offences exclusive of those listed above will be disregarded if not repeated within ONE (1) year.
9.05	Where an employee is removed from the rolls of the Company, s/he will be given an opportunity to review his/her record card with the Personnel Department. In the case of a discharge, the employee, if s/he so desires, may be accompanied by his/her Steward or designated Union representative.
9.06	Warnings, reprimands, suspensions, or discharges may follow conditions of which typical examples are:
a)	Stealing Company property or that of fellow workers.
b)	Reporting production falsely or punching other than employee's own
card.
50
Sabotage.
c)
d)	Violation of safety rules.
e)	Refusal to follow reasonable instructions from a supervisor and/or to respect supervisor's authority.
f)	Refusal to follow the negotiated procedure as outlined in this Agreement, Article V.
g)	Reporting for work intoxicated.
h)	Disorderly or immoral conduct on Company property.
i)	Obtaining employment on the basis of false information as to age or identity.
j)	Continual lateness.
k)	Avoidable waste of materials.
l)	Defective workmanship.
m)	Low production.
n)	Multiple reprimands.
o)	Endangering his/her life or that of fellow employees.
p)	Smoking in areas and at times in which smoking is forbidden.
9.07	Nothing contained in this Article shall be construed as restricting the rights of the Union under any other provisions of this Agreement.
9.08	Notices that the Union desires to have posted on the Company's notice boards shall be submitted to the Plant Manager or Manager Industrial Relations for approval. After agreement as to posting, the Company will post the notices on the bulletin boards customarily provided for all notices to employees.
9.09	The Company agrees to provide adequate relief for normal personal needs when and where necessary in any department where the work requires continuous operation.
9.10	A Joint Occupational Health & Safety Committee shall be appointed consisting of up to eight (8) individuals; up to four (4) representing the employer and selected by the Company and up to four (4) representing the workers and selected by the Union. Each party will designate an individual from their representatives on the committee to provide for co-chairmanship. Where prescribed by legislation, at least one member representing the workers and one member representing the employer will be certified. Additionally, the parties may each designate up to two alternate representatives to serve on the Committee in the temporary absence of regular representatives.
The function of the Joint Occupational Health & Safety Committee shall be:
(a) To facilitate the promotion of occupational health and safety in the workplace;
51
(b)	To make a monthly inspection of the plant or place of employment for the purpose of determining hazardous conditions, to check unsafe practices and to receive complaints and recommendations with respect to these matters;
(c)	To investigate promptly all critical accidents and any unsafe conditions or practices which may be reported to it;
(d)	To hold regular meetings at least monthly for the discussion of current accidents, their causes, suggested means of preventing their recurrence, and reports of investigations and inspections;
(e)	To keep records of all investigations, inspections, and recommendations together with minutes of meetings. The minutes shall indicate what action has been taken with respect to recommendations previously made, and if no action has been taken, the reasons therefore shall be given;
(f)	The Union Chairperson of the Joint Health and Safety Committee, or designate, shall have the right to accompany all authorized Ministry of Labour Safety Inspectors on tour of the plant and shall receive copies of any reports sent to the Company pertaining to such inspections;
(g)	Accident, injury, and occupational illness records shall be kept by the Company, and shall be made available to the Joint Occupational Health end Safety Committee. These records shall include all reports required by the Ministry of Labour under the Occupational Health and Safety Act or Sections 9.10, 9.11(b), and 9.12 of this Agreement. The Company also agrees to make available to the Committee upon request, the trade name and /or technical description (including chemical analysis, if available) of WHMIS controlled materials in the plant.
(h)	Due consideration will be given to recommendations of the Safety Committee. Any questions concerning the adoption of recommendations of the Safety Committee may be referred to the grievance procedure at Step #3. Members of the Safety Committee will be permitted to attend grievance meetings regarding such problems.
(i)	Differences not resolved within the Committee regarding occupational health safety problems may be referred to the grievance procedure at Step #3 for adjustment. Members of the Occupational Health & Safety Committee will be permitted to attend grievance meetings regarding such problems.
(j)	Members of the Occupational Health & Safety Committee shall be permitted to enter the plant when off shift for the purpose of investigating occupational health and safety matters in accordance with Article V, Clause 5.11, of the present Agreement.
In the event that a Union member of the Occupational Health & Safety Committee is requested by the Company, or because of a necessity which is specified under the Occupational Health and Safety Act or Sections 9.10, 9.11, and 9.12 of this Agreement, to report for work outside his/her normal working hours, s/he shall be compensated at the appropriate premium pay as per Article VI clause 6.05.
<k) Notice of the occurrence of an accident in the plant will be furnished to the Occupational Health & Safety Committee representative.
52
(1) If a problem arises requiring a member of the Safety Committee to contact employees during his/her working hours, such contact shall be arranged by such member through either his/her immediate supervisor or the department/area manager concerned.
A Union Joint Occupational Health and Safety Committee member will, at their discretion, be involved in the safety orientation for new hires and replacement employees.
9.11	(a) An employee will report to his/her supervisor, or management representative, any unsafe condition or actions which s/he believes may endanger him/herself or any other employee and will provide a reasonable opportunity for the matter to be addressed.
(b)	An employee may refuse to work or do particular work where s/he has reason to believe that:
(i)	any equipment, machine, device or thing s/he is to use or operate is likely to endanger him/herself or another employee, or
(ii)	the physical condition of the work place or the part thereof in which s/he works or is to work is likely to endanger him/herself.
9.12	(a) If as set down in Article 9.11(b)/ an employee refuses to work or do particular work, s/he shall promptly report the circumstances and reasons for his/her refusal to his/her supervisor, or management representative, who, in the presence of the refusing employee, shall forthwith investigate the report with a union representative of the Occupational Health and Safety Committee, or if not readily available, another knowledgeable union representative. Until the investigation is completed, the employee shall remain in a safe place near his/her work station.
(b)	Following the investigation and any steps taken to deal with the circumstances that caused the employee to refuse to work or do particular work, if the employee continues to have reasonable grounds to believe that carrying out the work would endanger him/herself or another employee, then an inspector representing the Ministry of Labour, shall be notified to investigate the refusal to work and they shall give their decision in writing as soon as practicable.
Pending the investigation and decision of the inspector, the employee shall remain in a safe place near his or her workstation during his/her normal work hours, unless the Company, subject to the provisions of this Agreement, assigns reasonable, alternate work during such hours, or where re-assignment is not practical, gives other direction to the employee.
Pending the investigation and decision of the inspector, no employee shall be assigned to use or operate the equipment, machine, device or thing or to work in the workplace or the part thereof which is being investigated, unless in the presence of a Union member of the Occupational Joint Health and Safety Committee, or if none available, another knowledgeable Union representative, the employee has been advised of the other employee's refusal and the reasons for the refusal.
53
No disciplinary action or reprisal shall be taken against any employee by reason of the fact that s/he has exercised the right conferred upon him/her under any Act or Sections 9.10, 9.11, and 9.12 of this Agreement, respecting the occupational health and safety of employees.
9.13	(a) The Company shall supply all protective clothing and other devices (excluding safety footwear and regular work clothing) deemed necessary by the Company to protect employees -com injuries arising from their employment with the Company.
(b) All employees shall follow the Company safety rules at all times while on the Company premises and use or wear the personal protective devices that the Company reguires to be used or worn.
ARTICLE X
ATTENDANCE REGULATIONS
10.01	Regular attendance is expected of every employee.
10.02	An employee who expects to be late or absent must report the reason to the Company at least one (1) hour, if possible, prior to starting time of his/her shift. If s/he is unable to contact the Company due to not having reasonable access to a phone and s/he will only be off one (1) shift, s/he must personally report his/her absence and the reason to his/her supervisor during his/her following shift. If s/he expects to be absent more than one (1) shift, s/he must notify the Company at the earliest possible time. In the case of illness of an employee s/he must make every reasonable effort to notify the Company as soon as possible.
10.03	An employee may be reprimanded, suspended, or removed from the rolls at the Company's option as resigned where:
a)	S/he is absent three (3) consecutive days for reasons other than
illness or injury, or seven (7) days in the case of illness or injury, and has not obtained an approved leave of absence or an extension of same.
b)	Without condoning absenteeism or no report, s/he is absent on more
than one occasion in thirty-one (31) consecutive calendar days and has not obtained an approved leave of absence.
c)	S/he is absent three (3) consecutive days after being approved for
work with a definite time to start work.
10.04	Department/area manager may grant a leave of absence, except in cases of illness or injury, up to fifteen (15) days. Leave of over fifteen (15) days but not in excess of ninety (90) days are arranged through the Personnel Department by the supervisor. An employee desiring a leave of absence of either more or less than fifteen (15) days duration must make his/her request in writing to his/her supervisor. The supervisor will inform the employee as promptly as possible regarding his/her written request. Before an employee can take a leave of absence, s/he must have a written approval of such leave.
54
10.05	Leaves of absence may be granted for reasons other than illness or injury upon application of the employee and approval of the Company. Such leaves shall not exceed the following:
Credited Service
a)	Less than 2 years
b)	2 years but less than 5 years
c)	5 years or more
Duration
15 days
2	months
3	months
Provided, however, that where leave of absence is granted to an employee in (a) above because of illness or death in the immediate family, such leave shall be extended to cover travelling time. If the employee, while on leave of absence, takes employment, his/her leave will be cancelled and s/he will be considered as resigned.
10.06	Leave of absence shall be granted for illness or injury of the employee provided s/he makes written application to his/her supervisor for same. Where the illness or injury prevents the employee from making such application, the supervisor shall make same on his/her behalf and if granted, a written leave will be given to the employee. The duration of such leave of absence shall be dependent on the nature of the illness or injury, the medical aspects of the case, and the effort the employee is making to restore himself/herself to normal health, but shall not, except as hereinafter provided, exceed the following:
Credited Service	Duration
a) Less than 1 year	1 calendar week for each month of credited service
b) 1 year but less than 2 years	6 months I
c) 2 years but less than 5 years	12 months 1
d) 5 years but less than 10 years	24 months
| e) 10 years and over	36 months
Provided, however, the Company in consultation with its medical department will exercise primary control as to how long beyond the periods specified in (a) to (e) the sick case is carried.
EXCEPTION:	For W.C.B. cases, the maximum allowable leave of absence for
seniority employees will be forty-eight (48) months.
10.07	Employees who are members of the "Reserve Force" may be granted, upon request, a leave of absence without pay, not exceeding two (2) weeks, to attend summer camp training. The employee must, upon request of the Company, produce written proof of service.
10.08	An employee who is a properly designated representative of the Local Union, upon request to his/her supervisor, shall be permitted time off without pay for the investigating or handling of grievances, attending to Local Union business, or a convention, but in the latter instance, s/he shall be given a written leave of absence.
It is understood that the supervisor and Union representative must take factory production requirements, degree of urgency and circumstances
55
surrounding the request into consideration when granting any request for time off.
An employee who is elected or appointed to serve as a representative of his/her Local Union, the U.S.W.A., Canadian Labour Congress, or Ontario Federation of Labour, shall upon written request, be granted a leave of absence without pay up to a period of one (1) year. An extension of such leave shall be granted on a yearly basis upon written application. In either case, the Union will give consideration to factory production requirements.
10.09	An employee granted a leave of absence for a period in excess of fifteen (15) days must, prior to resuming work:
1)	Report in person to the Personnel Department not later than the last
normal work day of his/her leave.
2)	If required by the Company, pass the Medical Department's examination. This examination shall be for the purpose of determining whether or not the employee has sufficiently recovered from the illness or injury to resume work and to prevent any employee from resuming work who had, while on leave of absence, contracted an infectious or contagious disease, or who has incurred a disability which, in the opinion of the Medical Department, precludes resumption of employment without endangering the health or safety of the employee or his/her fellow employees. If an employee is thus prevented from resuming work, s/he shall be given such further leave of absence as may be required to remedy the condition.
10.10	Le ave of absence shall apply only to an employee who is actively employed by the Company, is on an approved leave of absence, or is on vacation.
10.11	An employee who has been employed for at least thirteen (13) weeks may request, in writing at least two weeks prior to the anticipated commencement of the leave, and shall be granted, the following Leave of Absence without pay. It is understood by both parties that the following is for information purposes and that the full text of the applicable sections of the Employment Standards Act of Ontario, the Regulations to the Act, and any subsequent changes, modifications, or amendments thereto shall govern the actual circumstances of the Leave.
(a)	Pregnancy Leave of a maximum of seventeen (17) weeks is available to the natural mother of the child and the request for leave must be accompanied by a certificate from a qualified medical practitioner stating the expected birth date. pregnancy leave ends seventeen (17) weeks after commencement or on an earlier date provided the employee advises the Company, in writing at least four (4) weeks in advance of an earlier return date.
(b)	Parental Leave of a maximum of eighteen (18) weeks is available to
each parent of either a natural or an adopted child. The Parental leave of a natural mother must begin immediately following the expiration of her Pregnancy Leave; otherwise, Parental leave must commence within thirty-five (35) weeks of the date of the child's birth or coming into custody, care, and control of the parent. Parental leave ends eighteen (18) weeks after commencement Or On an
56
earlier date provided the employee advises the Company, in writing at least four (4) weeks in advance of an earlier return date.
During either Pregnancy or Parental leave, seniority continues to accrue and the employee continues to participate in each type of benefit plan provided by the Company, and all required contributions will continue to be made, unless the employee elects in writing not to continue participation in the benefits. Upon return from Pregnancy or Parental leave, the employee will be reinstated to a position of the same status and pay as the position held at the commencement of the leave.
ARTICLE XI
VACATIONS
11.01	Employees who have one or more years of credited service as of July 1st of the current year shall be granted a vacation, the duration of which shall be based upon credited service, and the payment for which shall be a percentage of the employee's total earnings for the previous
calendar year.	Vacation		
Credited Service	8 Hour Schedule	12 Hour Schedule	Payment
Group A - 25 Years or more	30 shifts	21 shifts	12%
Group B - 20 years but less than 25 years	25 shifts	18 shifts	10%
Group C - 12 years but less than 20 years	20 shifts	14 shifts	8%
Group D - 5 years but less than 12 years	15 shifts	11 shifts	6%
Group E - 1 year but less than 5 years	10 shifts	7 shifts	4%
Vacation selection outside the summer vacation schedule or shutdown period (Article 11.05) will be administered in blocks of five (5) consecutive scheduled work shifts with excess shifts per the entitlement above to be taken as single shift vacations. No vacation shifts will be scheduled on a statutory holiday.
Employees must select their vacation preferences by seniority by December 24th of each calendar year to enable the vacation schedule to be programmed by early January. Floaters by seniority must be selected by January 31 after which any remaining openings will be filled on a first come/first served basis.
57
SCHEDULING OF VACATION ENTITLEMENT
outside the summer vacation period (12 weeks prior to Labour Day)where all employees book equivalent of 2 weeks vacation made up of 7 shifts on 12 hour schedule, or 10 shifts on 8 hour schedule
	1ST STEP	2ND STEP	3RD STEP
	SCHEDULE *	SCHEDULE	SCHEDULE
ROUP A			
	Minimum -	5 shifts -	Balance of 4 to 6
2 HR - 14 SHIFTS	3 consecutive shifts	can be non-	shifts (to total 14
	Optional -	consecutive	maximum)
	4 or 5 consecutive		can be non-
	shifts		consecutive
HR - 20 SHIFTS			
	5 consecutive shifts	5 shifts -	
		can be non-	10 shifts -
		consecutive	can be non-
			consecutive
IROUP B			
	Minimum -	5 shifts -	Balance of 1 to 3
.2 HR - 11 SHIFTS	3 consecutive shifts	can be non-	shifts (to total 11
	Optional -	consecutive	maximum)
	4 or 5 consecutive		can be non-
	shifts		consecutive
1 HR - 15 SHIFTS			
	5 consecutive shifts	5 shifts -	
		can be non-	5 shifts -
		consecutive	can be non-
			consecutive
moup c			
	Minimum -	Op to 4 shifts	
12 HR - 7 SHIFTS	3 consecutive shifts	can be non-	0
	Optional -	consecutive	
	4 or 5 consecutive		
	shifts		
8 HR - 10 SHIFTS			0
	5 consecutive shifts	5 shifts -	
		can be non-	
		consecutive	
GROUP D			
	Minimum -	Balance of 0 to 2	0
12 HR - 4 SHIFTS	2 consecutive shifts	shifts (to total 4	
	Optional -	maximum)	
	3 or 4 consecutive	can be non-	
	shifts	consecutive	0
8 HR - 5 SHIFTS			
	5 shifts -		
	can be non-	0	
	consecutive		
GROUP B			
	0	0	0
12 HR - 0 SHIFTS			
	0	0	0
8 HR - 0 SHIFTS			
ALL VACATIONS MOST BE BOOKED BY DECEMBER 24 FLOATERS (BY SENIORITY) MOST BE BOOK BY JANUARY 31ST, AFTER WHICH WILL BE FILLED ON A FIRST COME-FIRST SERVED BASIS.
11.02	Vacation payment to an employee in Group E hired after January 1st of the previous calendar year shall be based upon his/her total earnings
58
for the period July 1st of the previous year to and including June 30th of the current year.
11.03	An employee with less than one year of credited service as of July 1st of the current year will be granted a vacation payment of 4% of his/her earnings up to and including June 30th of the current year. Such payment shall be made between July 1st and December 15th of the current year. Where the Company follows its normal practice of closing down for vacation and provided the employee is not scheduled to work during such shutdown, s/he shall be paid his/her vacation payment immediately prior to such shutdown.
11.04	Vacations shall be scheduled to commence not earlier than January 1st of the current year for those employees who are in Groups A, B, C and D and not earlier than March 1st of the current year for employees who are in Group E, and must be completed prior to December 31st of such year. An employee who attains one (1) year of credited service between March 1st and June 30th inclusive, shall not be granted his/her week of vacation pay until after the date on which s/he attained such credited service. An employee who attains one (i) , five (5), twelve (12), twenty (20) , and twenty-five (25) years of credited service between January 1st and December 24th of the calendar year shall not be granted his/her additional week's vacation with pay until after the date on which s/he attains such credited service.
ADDENDUM
An employee may request pay in lieu of vacation time off up to the maximum listed in the following schedule:
Vacation Eligibility
25 shifts (8 hour) or	18 shifts (12 hour)
30 shifts (8 hour) or	21 shifts (12 hour)
Pay in Lieu of Vacation 5 shifts 4 shifts
10 shifts 7 shifts
The employee may only express such preference at the time that s/he is contacted for selection of his/her preferred weeks of vacation. Such choice will be first choice for vacation selection.
Employees who qualify as of July 1st, and have elected to take pay in lieu of vacation time off in accordance with the above regulations, will receive their vacation cheques for said week or weeks by mid July.
Those employees who qualify for their 5th or 6th week of vacation between July 1 and December 31 per this clause 11.04, and who have elected to take pay in lieu of vacation time off in accordance with the above regulations, will receive their vacation cheque for said week(s) the week following their qualification for the additional week(s).
11.05	Each eligible employee will schedule seven (7) consecutive work shifts (12 hour schedule) or ten (10) consecutive work shifts (8 hour schedule) of vacation during the twelve week period ending Labour Day holiday in each year of the agreement, where applicable. In any year the Company elects to close down for vacation, the employee who qualifies for vacation is expected to take his/her vacation during such period,
59
providing s/he is not scheduled for maintenance or emergency work during the closing-down period. The Company will make a reasonable effort to post the time of such closing down by April 1st of the current year.
11.06	A definite period for vacation must necessarily be scheduled by the supervisor of the department, giving due consideration to production requirements. No vacation pay will be authorized unless taken except as defined in this Article.
11.07	Vacation payment will not be made to an employee while s/he is absent from work by reason of sickness, injury, or leave of absence. If upon the employee's return to work:
(a)	the Company is unable to schedule his/her vacation prior to December 15th of the current year, or
(b)	the employee is unable to return to work for the reasons outlined above prior to December 15th of the current year
s/he shall be paid his/her vacation payment.
11.08	An employee whose employment is terminated by reason of authorized
retirement, permanent and total disability or death or by payment of a severance award under the provisions of the Pension Plan Agreement or Severance Award Agreement on or after July 1st, 1998, 1999, 2000 and before July 1st, 1999, 2000, 2001 shall be paid a vacation payment based on the percentage defined in Clause 11.01 and	the wages s/he	earned from
July 1st,	1997, 1998,	1999,	2000 whichever	is	applicable	to his/her
termination date.
11.09	An	employee in	Groups	A, B, C, D or	E	of Clause	11.01 whose
employment is terminated because s/he resigns or is discharged, shall be paid a vacation payment per Clause 11.08.
11.10	An	employee in	Groups	A, B, C, D or	E	of Clause	11.01 whose
employment is terminated because s/he is laid off shall be paid a vacation payment as follows:
1)	Where termination occurs prior to July 1st of the current year and
the employee has not had his/her vacation for such year, s/he shall be entitled to four per cent (4%) according to current legislation of his/her total earnings from July 1st of the previous year to his/her termination date. Should such employee be rehired at any time during the next vacation year (July 1st of the current year to June 30th of the next year) and the Company is unable to schedule his/her vacation prior to December 31st of the current calendar year, s/he shall be paid the vacation payment which s/he would otherwise have received but for such termination, less any amount s/he has received for the current vacation year in lieu of time off.
2)	Where termination occurs after July 1st of the current year and the
employee has not had his/her vacation for such year, s/he shall be paid vacation pay to which s/he is entitled on July 1st and in addition to, four per cent (4%) of his/her earnings according to current legislation, from July 1st of the current year to his/her termination date.
60
3)	Where termination occurs after July 1st of the current year and the
employee has had his/her vacation for such year, s/he shall be entitled to four per cent (4%)according to current legislation of his/her total earnings from July 1st of the current year to his/her termination date.
4)	Where an employee is not recalled from lay-off within the current
year, s/he shall be paid a vacation payment per clause 11.08, less any amounts of vacation payment received during the current year.
11.11	An employee whose employment is terminated for any reason and who has less than one (1) year of credited service at such time, shall be paid a vacation payment as follows:
1)	Where termination	occurs	before July 1st	of the current	year	and the
employee has not	had a	vacation payment	for such year,	the	employee
shall be paid four per cent (4%) according to current legislation of his/her total earnings from his/her hiring date to his/her date of termination.
2)	Where termination	occurs after July 1st	of the current	year	and the
employee has not	had a	vacation payment	for such year,	the	employee
shall be paid four per cent (4%) according to current legislation of his/her total earnings from his/her hiring date to June 30th of the current year and in addition, s/he shall be entitled to four (4%) per cent according to current legislation of his/her total earnings from July 1st of the current year to his/her termination date.
3)	When termination occurs after July 1st of the current year and the
employee has had a vacation payment for such year, s/he shall be entitled to four per cent (4%) according to current legislation, of his/her total earnings from July 1st of the current year to his/her termination date.
11.12	Where an employee has been unable to work during the preceding calendar year, or any part thereof, owing to sickness or injury and for this reason only, the vacation pay is less than the following minimum, the vacation pay shall be increased to a minimum of the applicable E.I.C. maximum. Provided, the employee must have resumed his/her normal duties not less than two (2) months before vacation is granted.
11.13	An employee who has been on sick leave during the current year and who returns to work during such year, may by mutual agreement, at Step #3, be paid the vacation payment due to him/her in lieu of time off.
11.14 In no instance will vacation be paid twice for the same period of time.
11.15	In computing the earnings for vacation pay the following items
shall be included:	Uniroyal Goodrich total taxable earnings (exclusive
of special payment not covered by the Collective Labour Agreement), vacation from the preceding year, Ontario Health Insurance premiums which are paid by the employer on behalf of the employee and short work week benefits paid under the S.U.B. plan and Workplace Safety and Insurance Board payments and Weekly Indemnity for lost time ’in the previous calendar year.
61
ARTICLE XII
DURATION OF AGREEMENT
12.01	This Agreement shall be effective from June 1, 1998 and shall remain in full force until May 31, 2001 and thereafter from year to year unless either party gives to the other party, notice in writing of cancellation within a period of ninety (90) days prior to May 31, 2001, or any anniversary thereafter.
12.02	Subject to the provision for cancellation, either party may give the other a notice of proposal for revision within a period of ninety (90) days prior to May 31, 2001 or any anniversary date thereafter in which event the parties shall meet to consider the proposed revisions within twenty (20) days of the date of such delivery of notice and this Agreement shall continue in full force and effect until agreement is reached upon the proposed revisions. Provided that if negotiations for revision of this Agreement continue for two (2) months without agreement, this Agreement may be cancelled by either party upon thirty (30) days written notice to the other.
12.03	In the event of written notice of cancellation having been given by either party as provided for in Clause 12.01 and 12.02 herewith, negotiations shall be carried on during the period of notice of cancellation with a view to arranging a new Agreement. Should such negotiations extend beyond the expiration date, this Agreement shall not expire, but shall continue in full force and effect until the expiration of the applicable periods referred to in the Labour Relations Act, as amended, or until a new Agreement is entered into by the parties, whichever date shall occur first.
12.04	The Pension Plan Agreement, Severance Award Agreement, Insurance Program Agreement, Supplementary Unemployment Benefit Plan Agreement, Separation Payment Plan Agreement, the Mutual Dental Care Plan Agreement, Appendices A,B,C,D,E and P, and the Letters of Understanding (#1 to #17 inclusive) attached hereto form part of this Collective Labour Agreement.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties have executed this Agreement this tenth (10) day of July, 1998.
Signed, Sealed and Delivered in the presence of:
62
APPENDICES TO THE AGREEMENT
BETWEEN:	UNIROYAL GOODRICH TIRE MANUFACTURING,
KITCHENER, ONTARIO
A DIVISION OF MICHELIN NORTH AMERICA (CANADA) INC. hereinafter called the "Company"
AND:	UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA ON BEHALF OF
LOCAL #677
hereinafter called the "Union".
During the recent negotiations the Union and Company agreed to the following Appendices to the Agreement:
APPENDIXA
ITEMS ORIGINATING FROM MEMORANDUM OF JULY 11, 1991
FLEXIBILITY/MACHINE UTILIZATION
While the existing contract affords management considerable flexibility to operate the plant in a cost effective manner, poor communications and/or past practices need to be addressed. The Company recognizes its responsibility for good communication and consistent treatment of all employees.	It is,
therefore, understood that, in the future, the Company will expect cooperation in the following:
To balance production requirements, a qualified employee or crew can be moved to another operation in any department for which the employee or crew is qualified. This will include, for example, moving a builder between first stage and second stage building, even when they have work on their original operation. Further, if an incentive operator were to "cap out", the Company may move an employee to the "capped out" machine. The practice of employees claiming "ownership" to a machine will be discontinued in order to operate the facility in a most cost effective manner. The Company will continue the practice of issuing a weekly work schedule. Further, to use human and capital resources to their fullest potential, the Company will, for example, use dual classifications where required.
APPENDIX B
INTERIM INCREASE FORMULAE
1.	The amount of the interim increase shall be calculated and recalculated as provided below on the basis of the Consumer Price Index published by Statistics Canada (1986 = 100) and hereinafter referred to as the C.P.I.
2.	First Year of Agreement . . .
a)	"The base for calculations" is the average C.P. I. for the months of April, 1998, May, 1998 and June, 1998.
b)	The first adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay period
commencing September 26, 1998. It will reflect one cent (1C) per hour for each full . 083 point that the average C.P.I. for the months of
63
June 1998, July 1998 and August 1998	exceeds the base for
calculation.
c)	A second adjustment will be calculated, replace the first adjustment,
if any, and paid as of the pay period commencing on December 26,
1998.	It will reflect one cent (1$) per hour for each full .083 point that the average C.P.I. for the months of September, 1998, October, 1998 and November, 1998 exceeds the base for calculation.
d)	A third adjustment will be calculated, replace the second adjustment,
if any, and paid as of the pay period commencing on March 27, 1999. It will reflect one cent (1C) for each full .083 point that the average C.P.I. for the months of December, 1998, January, 1999 and February, 1999 exceeds the base for calculation.
e)	A fourth adjustment, if any, will be calculated and will be carried
over throughout the second year of this agreement, and paid as of the pay period commencing on June 26, 1999. It will reflect one cent (1$) for each full .083 point that the average C.P.I. for the months of March 1999, April 1999 and May 1999 exceeds the base for calculation.
3.	Second Year of Agreement . . .
a)	The base for calculations" is the average C.P.I. for the months of April, 1999, May, 1999 and June, 1999.
b)	The first adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay period commencing September 25, 1999. It will reflect one cent (1$) per hour for each full .083 point that the average C.P.I. for the months of June 1999, July 1999 and August 1999 exceeds the base for calculation.
c)	A second adjustment will be calculated, replace the first adjustment, if any, and paid as of the pay period commencing on December 25,
1999.	It will reflect one cent (1C) per hour for each full .083 point that the average C.P.I. for the months of September, 1999, October
1999	and November 1999 exceeds the base for calculation.
d)	A third adjustment will be calculated, replace the second adjustment, if any, and paid as of the pay period commencing on March 25, 2000. It will reflect one cent (1C) for each full .083 point that the average C.P.I. for the months of December 1999, January 2000 and February
2000	exceeds the base for calculation.
e)	A fourth adjustment, if any, will be calculated and will be carried over throughout the second year of this agreement, and paid as of the pay period commencing on June 24, 2000. It will reflect one cent (1C) for each full .083 point that the average C.P.I. for the months of March 2000, April 2000 and May 2000 exceeds the base for calculation.
4.	Third Year of Agreement . . .
a)	The base for calculations" is the average C.P.I. for the months of April 2000, May, 2000 and June, 2000.
b)	The first adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay period
commencing September 30, 2000. It will reflect one cent (1C) per hour for each full .083 point that the average C.P.I. for the months of June 2000, July 2000 and August 2000 exceeds the base for calculation.
c)	A second adjustment will be calculated, replace the first adjustment,
if any, and paid as of the pay period commencing on December 30,
64
2000.	It will reflect one cent (1$) per hour for each full .083 point that the average C.P.I. for the months of September 2000, October
2000	and November 2000 exceeds the base for calculation.
d)	A third adjustment will be calculated, replace the second adjustment, if any, and paid as of the pay period commencing on March 31, 2001. It will reflect one cent (1C) for each full .083 point that the average C.P.I. for the months of December 2000, January 2001 and February
2001	exceeds the base for calculation.
5.	The interim increase will be considered as earnings but will be boxed separately from other wage payments on the employee's time sheet.
6.	In the event Statistics Canada does not issue the appropriate Consumer Price Index on or before the date on which an adjustment is to be calculated, any adjustment required will be made at the beginning of the first pay period following receipt of the index.
7.	No adjustments, retroactive or otherwise, shall be made due to any revision which may later be made in any published Consumer Price Index by Statistics Canada.
8.	Continuation of the interim adjustments is dependent upon the availability of the official Statistics Canada Consumer Price Index calculated on the same basis and in the same form as that published for February 1998.
9.	Interim increase payments will be based on hours worked and hours paid for, including earnings for any payment under the S.U.B. Agreement and overtime.
10.	Future COLA payments, during the life of this Agreement, will be rolled into the wage rates on a yearly basis, effective June 1st of each contract year. They will be rolled into the rate structures on a straight cents per hour basis.
Notwithstanding the provisions for Interim Wage Increases as set out above, payment of COLA amounts generated will be made ONLY after due consideration of the provisions set out in the 6th Letter of Understanding to the Pension Plan.
11.	An advanced COLA of 17C per hour will be granted and the total value of that advanced COLA that would otherwise have been applied to the wage rate structure effective June 1, 1992 shall be applied as set out in the 6th Letter of Understanding to the Pension Plan.
Recovery of	the	COLA advanced will be	as follows:
(a)	5C	from	the	Interim	Wage	Increase	due	September	28, 1992,	plus
(b)	5C	from	the	Interim	Wage	Increase	due	December	28, 1992,	plus
(c)	7C	from	the	Interim	Wage	Increase	due	March 29,	1993
Should the Interim Wage Increase calculations at the above dates fail to produce an increase equal to or greater than the recovery instalment due on the respective effective date of adjustment, the balance due on said instalment(s) will be carried forward and deducted from the next subsequent Interim Wage Increase(s) in which there is a sufficient increase to cover the advanced amounts.
65
APPENDIX c
J.I.T., S.P.C. AND EMPLOYEE PARTICIPATION PROGRAMS
PROJECT:
Expand the use of J.I.T., S.P.C. and Employee Participation Programs by establishing a joint committee to formulate policy and oversee the program.
Company and Union will have equal representation at all policy meetings. The parties will select their representatives.
OBJECTIVE:
To Reduce waste defined as anything other than the minimum amount of equipment, materials, parts, floor space and workers' time which are absolutely essential to add value to the product by adopting a theme of Continuous Improvement.
STEPS REQUIRED:
Management and Union to provide encouragement, support and leadership to enable employees to utilize their full potential which will assist our plant to become a competitive and innovative world class manufacturing facility.
CRITERIA:
1.	Any reduction in staffing as a result of this project will be handled through attrition.
2.	The Company will advise the Union in advance of implementing any action related to this project.
3.	Should this project require new or revised standards, the Union Time Study will be involved with the Company Industrial Engineer in the development of the standards and will be paid average hourly earnings while so involved.
APPENDIX D
INTEGRATION OF NON-VALUE-ADDED JOBS INTO VALUE-ADDED JOBS PROJECT:
Integrate Non-Value-Added Jobs into Value-Added Jobs and provide for efficient utilization of Manpower.
STEPS REQUIRED:
Examine Work Content with a view to combining functions and redeployment of available waiting time.
Joint Union/Company analysis of Work Content.
1.	Mixing Department:
Evaluate work content on #1 Banbury to make the operation more cost competitive.
Evaluate workload of Mixing Department cleaning functions.
66
2.	Calendering/Extruding Department:
Evaluate work content on 4-Roll Calendar to make the operation cost competitive.
3.	Tire Preparation Department:
A)	Evaluate work content in the following job classifications:
a)	Liner Reroll
b)	#2 Bias Cutter Service
c)	Liner Pickup g) Vacation Replacement
B)	Investigate feasibility of Module Concept in Bead Area.
4.	Curing Department:
Evaluate work content of Press Operators to determine feasibility of performing bladder changes and taking over responsibility of Press Startups.
5.	Final Finish Department:
Evaluate work content in the following job classifications:
a)	Rework
b)	Bulge Detection
c)	Light Buff
d)	T ire Repair
Cover above jobs under the Job Classification of Tire Repair with understanding that the two senior employees in this group currently on one shift (days) will remain on that one shift until retirement, termination or transfer from their current job.
CRITERIA:
1.	Any reduction in staffing as a result of this project will be handled through attrition.
2.	The Company will advise the Union in advance of implementing any action related to this project.
3.	Should this project require new or revised standards, the Union Time Study will be involved with the company Industrial Engineer in the development of the standards and will be paid average hourly earnings while so involved.
d)	L iner Repair
e)	Miscut
f)	Sweeper
APPENDIX E
CONVERSION TO "MEASURED DAY WORK" SYSTEM
PROJECT:
Convert all present "Incentive Operations" excluding Tire Building to a "Measured Day Work System".
67
STEPS REQUIRED:
Develop machine capacities to develop targets, manning requirements and
standards for costing purposes.
Joint Company/Union analysis of work content.
CRITERIA:
1.	Any reduction in staffing as a result of this project will be handled through attrition.
2.	The Company will advise the Union in advance of implementing any action related to this project.
3.	Should this project require new or revised standards, the Union Time Study will be involved with the Company Industrial Engineer in the development of the standards and will be paid average hourly earnings while so involved.
APPENDIX F MAINTENANCE
ADDENDUM RELATING TO SKILLED TRADES APPRENTICESHIP PROGRAMS:
All apprentice training programs shall conform to the Ministry of Skills Development Regulations. The apprentices will be registered in the approved regulated program. The Company agrees to pay apprentice's wages and benefits while at school under this training program.
The number of apprentices will be determined by the Company based on needs to support the operation. These positions will normally be filled from within, providing the selection criteria is met. All new apprentices must demonstrate the potential for dual skills and level 4 certification. Pay will be based on progressive certification at levels one, two and three.
Seniority:
1.	The trainee will continue to accumulate seniority on the job from which they were transferred as long as they are in the training program. Should the employee drop out of the program before the training is completed, or after they have completed the training program and there is no permanent vacancy which they can enter in their own particular trade group, they will return to the job from which transferred and be subject to the regular seniority program under the current collective agreement.
2.	When the trainee has successfully completed the program and is transferred to a vacancy in their own trade, at that time all their company service will be credited to their trade occupation.
Overtime:
Apprentices shall be the last group to be asked to work overtime in their assigned trade. The Company agrees to offer overtime to apprentices where there is an opportunity for the apprentice to gain work experience required by the trade regulation but not usually available during regular hours.
Selection of Trade:
After the original trade selection has been made, this selection cannot be changed, except by mutual consent of the Company and trainee.
68
SUPPLEMENTARY AGREEMENT FOR SKILLED TRADES
The Company will, upon request of the Union, provide a letter for a skilled trades employee to assist him/her in obtaining a "U.S.W.A. Journeyman's Card". Such letter shall contain a statement in reference to the employee's skills and qualifications that can be used in the recommendation to obtain a "U.S.W.A. Journeyman Card". The Company will, upon request of the employee, provide a letter to assist the tradesperson in obtaining a O.T.A.B. (Ontario Training & Adjustment Board) license in the Province of Ontario. Such a letter shall contain a statement to include the employee's skills and qualification to assist in obtaining the tradesperson's license in the Province of Ontario.
OUTSIDE CONTRACTORS
The practice of "matching" of hours of skilled trade employees to that of outside contractors will be discontinued. The Company will continue the practice of upgrading the skills and abilities of Skilled Trade employees to reduce the use of outside contractors.
The Company will continue its practice of notifying the Union when outside contractors are to be engaged in maintenance work in the plant. Such notice will be in writing and in advance, if possible.
The Company also agrees to use union contractors where possible and cost competitive in the above mentioned maintenance work.
MAINTENANCE DEPARTMENT
Level System:	A Maintenance Department skilled trades career development
system will be followed. The 2 trades recognized for certification are Industrial Electrician (regulation 1062) and Industrial Mechanic (regulation 1063). This will include 1 through 5 different pay levels as follows:
Level M-l Entry level with solid theoretical and limited practical skills. Level M-2 Solid theoretical and some trade related skills and /or experience in a single trade.
Level M-3 Pull knowledge and competency in a single trade.
Level M-4 Level 3 certification in a trade, and level 2 certification in the second trade.
Level M-5 Level 3 certification in both trades.
In addition there will be a limited number of Machinists (regulation 734/91), general maintainers and lubricators positions based on Company needs. Any further reductions in these areas will be made through attrition.
Existing trades persons who are currently working as a regulated tradesperson will automatically be placed at level 3 and will be grandfathered at level 3, for pay purposes, without a requirement for certification. No layoffs from skilled trades will occur as a result of this program over the life of this agreement.
Anyone who does not achieve level 3 certification within 3 years (3 attempts) will be removed from the program.
All new entries to Maintenance will be assessed and placed at their assessed and certified level upon completion of the probationary period. These
69
employees will commence at their job start rate and achieve their level of pay after 90 days.
Level 4 position will be dual skill shift troubleshooters.
The number of positions will be based on Company needs. Level 4 can only be achieved through certification in one trade at level 3 and at level 2 in the other trade. Grandfathering does not apply.
The number of level 5 (Technical Specialist) jobs will be limited to meet the needs of the plant. Level 5 would normally require certification in both trades (no grandfathering).
The selection process for open positions at any level will be based on skills and ability. The most senior person will be selected from those who meet the selection criteria.
A trades person may become certified in a skill prior to being selected for a higher position. However, the pay level can only be achieved when the candidate has been selected and certified.
To attain a specific level, each trades person is expected to be certified at the skill level through the T.S.L.C. (Trades Skills Level Certification) .
Employees are required to maintain the qualifications & skill levels for which they are being paid.
The in-house Skilled Trades Training Program will provide the training opportunities to achieve the required certification by the Regulations and T.S.L.C. The TNA (Training Needs Assessment) will be utilized to determine and prioritize training needs. All skilled trades employees will be required to perform a TNA, except those who are eligible to retire within 5 years.
Prior approval for training must be obtained from the Maintenance Department Head.
The Normal process for open positions will follow these steps:
Selection------> Job Experience ---------> Training -------> Experience------->
Certification ---> Pay
Pay level applies to job worked.
Hours of Work - Exceptions for Maintenance
In general, the Maintenance Department will follow the hours of work established for the plant under 6.01 of the CLA.	There must be some
exceptions to assure the department is able to provide the essential services to maintain the plant and production equipment.
Some of these exceptions are:
1.	The powerhouse will have a 365 day shift schedule (366 day for leap year).
2.	Normally the work day will not exceed 12 hours, however, the Company reserves the right to exceed 12 hours for job continuity during
70
emergencies and breakdowns. Special shift coverage will be expected for P.M., major maintenance and project groups. Normally this would be for planned work with a minimum of 2 weeks notice. For major breakdowns requiring additional maintenance support outside the normal schedule, where notice cannot be given, the normal overtime rules will apply.
TOOL ALLOWANCE
The Company will provide a tool allowance of up to $100 per year for the replacement of broken tools required in the performance of the employee's job, provided the broken tool is stenciled with the employee's name and replacement is verified by receipt from a reputable supplier or purchased through Company stores.
71
LETTERS OF UNDERSTANDING
BETWEEN:	UNIROYAL GOODRICH TIRE MANUFACTURING,
KITCHENER, ONTARIO
A DIVISION OF MICHELIN NORTH AMERICA (CANADA) INC. hereinafter called the "Company"
AND:	UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA ON BEHALF OF LOCAL #677
hereinafter called the "Union".
During the recent negotiations the Union and Company agreed to the following Letters of Understanding:
Letter 1
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT RE PRODUCTIVITY
During the 1989 contract negotiations, the Company and the Union agreed that it is in their mutual best interests to develop a procedure to enable the Company to take advantage of business opportunities, maximize productivity capabilities, maximize operating effectiveness and strengthen the plant's operations consistent with the welfare and job security of the employees.
This Memorandum of Agreement provides authorization to the parties to enter into discussions for the purpose of jointly developing, approving, and implementing programs to meet the objectives set forth above. The approval and implementation of any change shall be accomplished in each case through a Memorandum of Agreement between the parties. The approval of the Memorandum shall be made by the majority of the bargaining unit members in the department, departments, or operations within a department(s) which are directly involved.
Fundamental to this joint effort is the concept that the ongoing prosperity of Uniroyal Goodrich Tire Manufacturing, Kitchener, Ontario, mutually beneficial to both parties. This Memorandum of Agreement will serve as an instrument in achieving the common objectives of the Company and the Union as well as to solidify the continuing co-operative and constructive relationship between the parties.
CURING EFFICIENCY BONUS
During the period, August 1, 1998 through to May 31, 2001, the Company will provide a curing efficiency bonus /breach four (4) week period where the average efficiency exceeds the target efficiency.
Curing efficiency will be calculated daily according to the following:
Actual curing count
(Number of presses scheduled) x (Current time - 7am)
(Daily average cycle time)
•	The standard period of calculation will be /’□□o 7:00 a.m. - 7:00 a.m.
•	Actual curing count is the number of tires actually cured.
•	The number of presses scheduled are the total which have a production
ticket assigned.
•	The daily average cycle time is calculated using the specific cure law
and press cycle time for each press with an assigned ticket.
72
•	Each consecutive four (4) week period, the plant average curing efficiency is calculated.
•	When the achieved efficiency exceeds the target efficiency, the gain in tires is calculated.
•	The gain is calculated based on the business plan tires per day budget for the four (4) week period.
•	This gain is translated into dollars by multiplying the gain in tires by the fixed cost contribution per tire from the Company's financial project justification tables. It is converted from U.S. currency to Canadian currency based on the current exchange rate.
•	A fixed percentage of this savings is returned to eligible employees in the form of a lump sum on the second pay period following the end of the four (4) week curing efficiency bonus period.
•	Eligible employees are those that meet the attendance criteria during the four (4) week bonus period.
-	If active less than 50% of scheduled work time not eligible.
Eligible if active 50% or greater of scheduled work time.
-	Replacement employees and students are not eligible for the curing efficiency bonus.
•	Contract Year____________1998________1999________2000
Business Plan	92.0%	92.5%	93.0%
Target Efficiency
% Savings Returned	25.0%	25.0%	15.0% **
to Employees
** Percentage of Savings Returned to Employees is reduced effective June 1, 2000 replaced by the $.10/hour guarantee, which will be rolled into wages.
Letter 2
VOLUNTARY OVERTIME
It is understood and agreed that the Company will ask for volunteers for overtime work beyond the requirements of the normal work week schedule (except up to two (2) hours required for start up and shut down shifts) on an individual basis to replace absentees or to meet production requirements.
It is further understood and agreed between the parties that should the Company not obtain cooperation from employees in performing necessary overtime to maintain scheduled production levels, the Union agrees that it will meet with the Company when requested to put in place a plan which will provide the required manning to meet production overtime requirements.
The Company will maintain records pertaining to overtime hours offered and worked and will make every effort to equalize the overtime hours offered.
When the Company deems it necessary to perform work on overtime, such overtime shall be distributed as equitably as reasonably practical within a group. It is understood that this section does not assume that each employee sharing overtime with a particular group will at any given time have received the same number of overtime hours but merely expresses the fundamental policy of the Company to keep such hours as nearly in balance from time to time as is practical under the circumstances.
73
If the balance of hours worked among a group which normally shares such overtime is not properly maintained because of improper allocation and a grievance is filed, and as a result an employee is found not to have had his/her fair share of hours, the condition shall be identified and preference given to the aggrieved employee over the other employees involved as soon as practicable, until a fair balance is re-established.
The Union will have the right to check over the aforementioned records pertaining to overtime hours offered and worked.
Letter 3
FOR THE HANDLING OF EMPLOYEES WHO ARE MEMBERS OF THE BARGAINING UNIT AND WHO ACCEPT ASSIGNMENT TO SUPERVISORY DUTIES.
1.	Employees who accept assignment as supervisors and elect to withdraw from
the bargaining unit:
-	These	employees will	be paid	rates and work scheduled hours	as
determined by the Company.
-	Upon completion of the assignment, the employee will be returned to
the bargaining unit to a job per the Collective Agreement.
2.	Employees who accept assignment of supervisors for a period of up to three consecutive months and elect to remain in the bargaining unit:
-	These	employees will	be paid	rates and work scheduled hours	as
determined by the Company.
-	Upon completion of the assignment, the employee will be returned to
the job which he held prior to assignment.
-	It is	agreed that any	employee	who changes jobs as a result of	the
assignment will be informed that such change is on a loan basis	and
that at the end of the assignment, he will return to the job he held prior to the assignment.
3.	Employees who are temporarily loaned to supervisory duties for a period
not to exceed four weeks:
-	These employees will be paid per the terms and conditions of the
Collective Agreement.
-	During the term of the assignment, the company will not be required
to secure permission for daily and/or weekly overtime to the extent of half-hour per day.
-	Upon completion of the assignment, the employee will be returned to
the job he held prior to the assignment.
4.	It is understood that the lengths of assignments specified in 2 and 3 above may be extended by mutual agreement between Company and Union.
Letter 4
VOLUNTARY OVERTIME, AND THE PAYMENT OF TIME AND ONE HALF (CLAUSE 6.06) WHEN AN EMPLOYEE IS LATE AND IS ASKED TO WORK OVER
74
Under the Collective Agreement, Clause 6.06 provides for payment of time and one half, for all hours in excess of eight hours in a twenty-four (24) hour period.
Local 677 would waive this condition of payment provided the employee who is more than two (2) hours late, for whatever reason, is not eligible to be asked for work.
If an employee is late two hours or less, and agrees to work an equivalent of hours on voluntary overtime, they would not be eligible for the time and one half payment, as per clause 6.06, on the following day when they report for their normal shift.
The interpretation will remain in effect as long as Voluntary Overtime continues to be an Agreement between Local 677 and Uniroyal Goodrich Tire Manufacturing, Kitchener, Ontario.
The interpretation of clause 6.06 does not apply to any other circumstances other than when an employee is unable to start their shift on time and are late two (2) hours or less.
This interpretation was discussed and agreed to by the Executive Board of Local 677 at their regular monthly meeting in July, 1985.
Letter 5
SAFETY SHOE SUBSIDY
The Company agrees to reimburse employees up to $130.00 in any period of 24 consecutive months toward the purchase of approved safety shoes for each eligible employee:
This subsidy is subject to the following terms and conditions:
1.	The applicable amount will be paid only to employees who have established seniority and who submit an authorized receipt certifying purchase of approved safety shoes.
Probationary employees will be reimbursed up to the applicable amount toward safety shoes purchased at time of hiring provided they complete the probationary period.
2.	After the expiration of the twelve month period under the previous Agreement, the first payment will establish the twenty-four month period for each individual employee.
3.	Wearing of safety shoes within the facility is mandatory.
Letter 6 POOL OF HOURS
The Company will make available to the Union a pool of hours to be administered by the Union President to cover time lost from work by Union members for the purposes of conducting legitimate Local Union matters related to the administration of the various Collective Agreements between the parties. The number of hours available per month will be calculated each month on the basis of 9 hours per week per 100 employees and rounded to the nearest 5 hours, accumulative to a maximum of 400 hours.
75
For month of June, 1986 -
700 employees x 4.33 weeks/month x 9 hours/week divided by 100 employees = 272.8 rounded to 275 hours
The Local Union President will provide the Manager of Industrial Relations, each Monday, with a list of names of employees, hours to be paid to each, and the employee's personal straight-time Average Hourly Earnings plus any applicable interim increase, for the previous week.
The following example details the available hours accumulative to the maximum of 400 hours under this commitment:
Month
Hours
Available
Accumulative (Max. 400)
Hours Hours Used Left
July, 1986 August, 1986 September, 1986 October, 1986 November, 1986 December, 1986 January, 1987
275
275
125
180
275
275
275
275
375
400
400
275
375
400
175 100 100 275 180 220 400 0 175 100 145 230 etc., etc...
Letter 7
PAYMENT FOR MEETINGS & UNION TIME STUDY
The Company will continue its present practice of payment for attendance at meetings and for the payment of training time for a Union time study person on the following basis:
1)	Payment for attendance at all meetings requested by the Company or the Union for the purpose of explanation of operating procedures commonly known as "procedure meeting".
2) Payment for a total of two meetings concerning a new or revised incentive standard; such two meetings may be comprised of any one of the following combinations:
a)	two explanation meetings; OR
b)	one explanation meeting and one grievance meeting; OR
c)	two grievance meetings.
3)	Payment for every second meeting (half the number of meetings) for the negotiation of Collective and Welfare Agreements, providing that satisfactory progress is being made and also providing that such payment will not be made when negotiations are conducted at the conciliation and/or arbitration levels.
4)	Payment will be made to a Union Time Study Trainee while s/he is being trained under Company direction.
Letter 8
UNION PRESIDENT'S PAY
The Local Union President will be reimbursed by the Company for forty (40) hours per week at the highest base hourly rate in the plant, plus any applicable interim increase, for time spent in the conduct of legitimate
76
Local Union matters concerning the administration of the Collective Labour Agreement.
In the absence from work of the Local Union President, for periods of 4 days or less, the Local Union Acting President will be reimbursed for eight (8) hours per day at his/her respective Average Hourly Earnings.
In the absence from work of the Local Union President, for continuous periods of five (5) days or more, the Local Union Acting President will be reimbursed for eight (8) hours per day at the Local Union President's rate.
It is understood that upon the resignation or completion of Local Union President's term of office, that the Local Union President shall:
(1)	be returned to his/her original job (if it still exists) and crew with full seniority and service. This is effective only if the Local Union President has not transferred to a posted position under the provision of clause 8.19 during his term, or
(2)	be returned to the most recently accepted posted position.
Letter 9
UNION VICE-PRESIDENT
At the request of the Union, the Company will grant the Union VicePresident a full time day assignment for local Union business, to be paid out of the Union pool of hours, at his/her average hourly rate x 40 hours/week. It is understood that upon resignation or completion of Local Uhion Vice-President's term of office, that the Local Union Vice-President shall (1) be returned to his/her original job (if it still exists) and crew with full seniority and service. This is effective only if the Local Uhion Vice-President has not transferred to a posted position under the provision of clause 8.19 during his/her term, or (2) be returned to the most recently accepted posted position.
Letter 10 PLANT CLOSURE
In the event a full plant closure of the Uniroyal Goodrich Tire Manufacturing, Kitchener Plant at 131 Goodrich Drive ("Kitchener Plant") becomes necessary during the life of this agreement:
1)	The Company will notify the Local and International Union at least six
(6) months prior to the cessation of production operations.
2)	Following such notification, the Local and International Union will have
the right to discuss and explore with the Company any possible means of averting the closure.
3)	If attempts to avert the plant closure are not successful, the plant
closure provisions provided in paragraphs 4 to 8 shall apply. The Company and Union representatives will meet to discuss the manner in which the closure is carried out.
4)	Benefit coverage for the benefits of Medical/Dental and Life Insurance
coverage (excluding any optional coverage) shall be provided to employees whose employment is terminated by the Company as a result of the full plant closure in accordance with the following formula:
77
SERVICE AS AT EMPLOYEE'S DATE OF TERMINATION	LIMITED BENEFIT COVERAGE AS DESCRIBED ABOVE
under 2 years	2 months
2 years but less than 5 years	4 months
5 years but less than 9 years	6 months
9 years but less than 14 years	8 months
14 years but less than 17 years	10 months |
months
5)	A Joint Adjustment Committee shall be established and shall consist of
three (3) representatives appointed by the Company and three (3) representatives appointed by the Union. The mandate of the Committee shall be to assist employees with job search and social counselling. A Chairperson will be selected by the Committee, subject to the approval of the Industrial Adjustment Service.
6)	Subsequent to notification to the Union of the cessation of production
operations, to provide for the efficient wind down of the Kitchener Plant, the Company shall have the right to fill any position by temporary assignment and the posting and bumping procedures of the Collective Agreement shall not apply; bumping procedures shall only apply as employees are laid off to the street.
7)	The Company shall have the right to use outside contractors to dismantle
and/or remove equipment and otherwise provide for the cleaning and decommissioning of the Kitchener Plant. However, where in the Company's judgement it is efficient to use bargaining unit members for such work they will be used.
8)	In accordance with Article VIII 3(b) , the Company and the Union shall
give a written order to the trustee that the remaining assets of the
S.U.B. Trust be paid to the Company. These assets shall then be paid as follows:
With respect to employees who remain in the bargaining unit after the full cessation of production operations, funds sufficient to provide for the same funding level which existed at the date of the full cessation of production operations in regard to the employees shall be transferred to an equivalent S.U.B. Plan;
Remaining funds shall be distributed on a pro rata basis among the terminated employees who have credit units in the S.U.B. plan.
Letter 11
TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGES
During 1986 negotiations, it was agreed by both parties that the trend is toward greater automation and technological change which could significantly alter the structure of the industry that remains.
In implementing any technological change, both parties recognize the import-
78
ance of minimizing disruption to the workforce. With this objective in mind, it is agreed that:
a)	The Company will notify the Union of any technological changes when the necessary approvals for expenditures are obtained and earlier if possible.
b)	During the regular "state of the business" meetings with the Union
Executive, technological change items will form part of the agenda.
c)	Wherever possible, any workforce reduction will be handled by attrition.
d)	Wherever possible, remaining employees affected by technological change
will be re-trained on the new eguipment, operation or procedure.
Letter 12
In the event of any future contract issues related to the new 12 hour core schedule, both parties agree to resolve each issue in a manner consistent with cost parity to the previous eight hour core schedule. This letter applies to the Collective Agreement and its ancillary agreements and related interpretations.
Letter 13
EXCEPTIONAL SHIFT SCHEDULES
The parties (Company & Union) have identified, through mutual agreement, the following exceptions to the 4 crew, 12 hour rotating core shift schedule:
2 Crew	1 Crew
12 Hour Days 8 Hour Days (Mon - Fri)


*
*
*
*

*
Chemical Weighing..................
Banbury Cleaner....................
Banbury Waste Control..............
Receiving Truckers.................
Trucker/Strip Mill Operator........
Cement House Operator..............
Documenter/Trainer ................
Safety Co-ordinator................
Johnstone Slitter..................
T.L R. Technician..................
Mold Repair........................
Mold Prep..........................
WSW Rework/Final Classify..........
Pass. Repair (R3) .................
Lab Specialist.....................
Raw Material Inspector.............
Lab Technician.....................
Blow Point Tech....................
Test Centre/Architecture Technician
Bogy Testing.......................
Storeskeeper.......................
Maint. Level 5 Technical Specialist..
Maintenance Planner...............
Maintenance GM ...................
Machinist .........................
Lubricator ........................
Mixing Sweepers....................
.X
......................................X
.......................................X.
.X.
..X
........................................X.
.......................................X..
........................................X..
.X.
....................
.X.
.X..
....X
X
.X..
X
.X
.X.
.X.
X
(not scheduled Sun 3.7 pm) ......................X
(12 hour and 8 hour combination)
..X.
X
.X.
X
X
.X
79
Powered Sweepers .... AR & Waste Control Maximizer.........
X
*
*
X
X
Scheduled 3:00 to 11:00 pm Sundays only when production running full 21 shift operation.
The following general conditions are understood and agreed to with respect to the work schedules for the foregoing listed job functions:
1.	If the needs of the plant or internal or external customers and employees are not met, schedules will revert to the plant 14 shift 12 hour core rotating schedule with reasonable notice given to the Union.
(Minimum of 2 weeks notice).
2.	All other provisions of the collective labour agreement apply.
3.	The parties agf66 to meet and attempt to resolve any unseen issues which may arise.
4.	This Letter of Understanding for the listed functions is for purposes of identifying hours of work and shift rotation only.
Letter 14
LATERAL SENIORITY (DEPARTMENT #64551)
The Company and the Union enter into this agreement to assist people to utilize their seniority in Department #64551 Building Room and to assist people to exercise their lateral seniority (building machine to building machine) in Department #64551.
1.	Post any required vacant home posts as they become open. They are to be filled through Lateral Transfers in the tire builder class-i£ication in Department #64551. Subsequent openings as a result of the initial posting will be filled through the Lateral Transfers on hand.
2.	Those person who are to be bumped off home posts and are unable to secure a desired home post through the Lateral Process, (within the Department #64551 Progression system) would now b@ placed by seniority into any remaining open home posts after the Lateral Process has been exhausted, through consultation with the parties.
Letter 15
Mutual Respect
We recognize and accept that the quality of OUT 'labour - management
relationships' at Kitchener play a fundamental role on the level of
progress and quality of life we all experience in our work place.
We pledge to maintain a foundation that:
•	Adheres to our company values in all our behaviours (respect for the customer, the employee, the facts and the shareholder).
•	Commits each of us to observe and comply with the terms, conditions and spirit of our collective labour agreement.
•	Recognizes the union's obligation to represent their membership and the need for pertinent information to fulfill that obligation.
•	Demands every member of management and every union official conduct themselves with integrity and total honesty in their dealings.
80
We commit ourselves to the following activities to keep our relationship a constructive one:
•	The plant management team will review the 'multi - year' plan with the local union officers within 1 month of its approval at the corporate level.
•	The plant management team and union leadership will engage in advance
discussions to exchange view points prior to implementing change.
•	area manager and the head of plant maintenance will meet a minimum of once every 2 months (with a target of once per month) with the appropriate union officials to review their departmental performance and plans for the upcoming period.
•	The plant management team will meet semi-annually with the union executive to review overall plant performance. There will be a segment of each meeting for a progress review of our labour - management relationships.
•	We will target joint training sessions to help us develop in areas such
as:	problem solving, grievance handling, teamwork and business
understanding. The training will be mutually selected.
Letter 16 STUDENTS
Definition:
Hours of Work:
Wage Rates:
Overtime:
Probationary
Period:
Seniority:
Benefits:
An individual who is attending post Secondary education.
The normal work period for students is 15 April to 15 September.
The hours of work for students will be scheduled as per 6.01 and the Exceptional Shift Schedule Letter #13.
Students will be paid according to the experience rate factors represented in clause 7.31/7.32 -Incremental Hiring Rates.
Students will not be eligible for the Curing Efficiency bonus.
Students shall receive overtime rates of pay per clause 6.05. Regular full-time employees will first be offered any available overtime.
Students are subject to the same conditions of employment as probationary employees.
Students are not eligible under any of the provisions of Article VIII - Seniority.
Students are not eligible for benefits. Students will be eligible for the safety shoe program.
Letter 17 Replacement Pool
Definition:	A pool of employees shall be established to fill
positions which are temporarily vacant due to such things as:
a)	seasonal peaks in shipping demands
b)	abnormal peaks in absence levels due to sickness, accidents, Workers Compensation,
81
leaves of absence, etc., beyond planned replacement coverage.
c)	other temporary peaks in production requirements
Hours of Work:	The hours of work for replacement employees will be
scheduled as per 6.01 and the Exceptional Shift Schedules Letter #13.
Wage Rates:	Replacement employees will be paid according to the
experience rate factors represented in clause 7.31/7.32 -Incremental Hiring Rates. When replacement employees are not assigned to a specific job class, group level 2 rate at the applicable experience factor will apply (clause 7.32).
Replacement employees are not eligible for the Curing Efficiency bonus.
Stat. Holiday Pay:Replacement employees will be eligible for Stat.
Holiday(s) as specified in the Employment Standards Act per the provisions of Clause 6.09.
Overtime :	Replacement employees shall receive overtime rates of
pay per clause 6.05.
Regular full-time employees will first be offered any available overtime.
Probationary
Period:
Seniority :
Benefits:
Replacement employees are subject to the same conditions of employment as probationary employees. The probationary period for replacement employees is 520 hours worked, excluding overtime.
Within the replacement pool, seniority is accrued through hours worked in the plant. A separate seniority list with job qualifications for replacement employees will be available. The most senior qualified replacement employees will be selected for the temporary assignment.
Replacement employees are not eligible under any of the provisions ofArticle VIII - Seniority.
Replacement employees will be eligible for the following benefits at the following level of hours worked, excluding overtime:
1)	Safety Shoes - 520 hours worked
2)	Prescription Drugs (under Article VI, 6.01(e) and
6.02)	- 2080 hours worked
3)	Supplementary Health (under Article VI, 6.01 and
6.02)	- 4160 hours worked
4)	Pension - qualifications as per the Ontario
Pension Benefits Act
S.U.B
Maximum
Qualification for Permanent
Positions
Replacement employees are ineligible for S.U.B.
Replacement employees working in the plant at any Number: given time will be limited to no more than 30 people. Outside the summer period of 15 April to 15 September, summer students are included in the limit of 30 people.
The most senior replacement employee who met the company hiring criteria will be hired for permanent production openings.
82
RATES OF PAY
The following base rates are to be effective June 1,1998 at 7:00 a.m. These revised rates cancel and supercede all existing base rates currently in effect.
Minimum Bate/	Experienced
Group	Base Bate per	unit	Hourly
No.	Hourly	Value	Bates
2 .
4
5	13.909	(A) .23182
6	14.177	(B) .23628
7
(A)	Unit value .23182 to be used by incentive employees in the bead area
(B)	Unit value .23628 to be used by tire builders.
17.016
17373
17.679
17.985
18.546
18.903
19.290
Maintenance Trade Pay Progression
Ml Start rate
12 Month or Course
18.23
19.23
M2 Certification
12 Months and Positive Assessment
20.23
21.23
M3 a»Vi.
Course in Primary Trade *
Course in Secondary Trade *
With Certification
Entry into Dual Skill Path
12 Months on Dual Skill and Positive Assessment
22.23 22.48
22.73
23.23
24.23
24.73
M4	25.23
M5	27.23
Powerhouse	3rd class
2nd class
21.86
22.42
* Applicable to Grandfathered M3 only
Includes course since June 1,1995 through Uniroyal Goodrich Technical School To qualify for “Course in Secondary Trade” rate, must have successfully completed primary course.
83
WAGE RATES KITCHENER PLANT LEARNING SCHEDULES FOR
TRANSFERRED EMPLOYEES WITH GREATER THAN 3 YEARS SERVICE
Note: # of shifts shall mean # of worked shifts
Transferred employee may move to experienced rate upon completion of full learning schedule period or certification, whichever occurs first.
84
During the 1998 contract negotiations, the following items were agreed upon by the parties:
A)	Effective July 13,1998,7:00 pm
I.	Earnings potential of all employees will be increased by forty-four cents ($0.44) per hour made up of twenty-five cents ($0.25) per hour general wage increase plus nineteen cents ($0.19) per hour advanced COLA. This forty-four cents ($0.44) is to be folded in for incentive employees at an eighty (80) unit hour.
II.	Retroactivity to be provided on all hours worked from June 1,1998 to and including July 13,1998 at 7:00 pm.
B)	Effective June 1 1999,
I. Earnings potential of all employees will be increased by thirty-four cents ($0.34) per hour made up of ten cents ($0.10) per hour general wage increase plus twenty-four cents ($0.24) per hour advanced COLA. This thirty-four cents ($0.34) Is to be folded in for incentive employees at an eighty (80) unit hour.
C)	Effective June 1 2000,
I. Earnings potential of all employees will be increased by nineteen cents ($0.19) per hour made up of ten cents ($0.10) per hour curing efficiency bonus guarantee plus nine cents ($0.09) per hour advanced COLA. This nineteen cents ($0.19) Is to be folded in for incentive employees at an eighty (80) unit hour.
85
Agreement
Pension
S. U. B
Severance
Separation
Insurance
Dental
Uniroyal Goodrich Tire Manufacturing, Kitchener, Ontario
A Division of Michelin North America Inc.
United Steelworkers of America on behalf of Local 677
June 1st, 1998 - May 31, 2001
AGREEMENT
PENSION PLAN
THIS AGREEMENT made and entered into this first day of June, 1998
BETWEEN:	Uniroyal Goodrich Tire Manufacturing,
Kitchener, Ontario
a Division of Michelin North America (Canada) Inc. hereinafter referred to as the "Company",
AND:	United Steelworkers of America on behalf of Local #677
hereinafter referred to as the "Union".
WITNESSETH THAT:
Subject to obtaining and retaining such acceptance of the Pension Plan by such Pension Commissions and other supervisory bodies as the Company may deem necessary and subject to obtaining and retaining such acceptance of the Pension Plan by the relevant tax authorities as the Company may deem necessary to establish that the Company is entitled to deduct the amount of its contributions to the Pension Fund as an expense before taxes under the provisions of the Income Tax Act, and any other applicable tax laws, as now in effect or as hereinafter amended or adopted, the Company agrees with the Union that the Company will:
(a)	provide the pensions, deferred vested interest payments and deferred life annuities provided for herein which are awarded to those who become eligible therefor during the term of this Agreement or of any renewal hereof, and
(b)	preserve the deferred vested interests created by each previous Pension Plan Agreement between the Company and the Union.
No action taken in performance of the terms of this Agreement and consistent herewith is to be construed or interpreted as being a violation of any of the terms of any collective agreement between the Company and the Union.
As used in this Agreement,
(a)	The term, "employment", means the status of a person who is employed by
the Company in the bargaining unit hereinafter defined during all times s/he is enrolled on the factory payroll.
(b)	The term, "employee", means a person who is in employment or who since
s/he was last in employment has retained his/her credited service under a collective agreement hereinafter defined.
(c)	The term, "former employee, " means the status of a person who previously
had been in employment.
(d)	The term, "collective agreement, " means the collective agreement between
the Company and the Union dated June 1, 1998.
(e)	The term, "bargaining unit," means the unit of employees defined in the
collective agreement.
(f)	The term, "credited service," means the service of an employee which has
3
been and remains credited to him/her, or would be credited to him/her re-employed after lay-off, in accordance with the provisions of Article III of the Pension Plan.
(g)	The term, "normal retirement date," means the first day of the month following an employee's 65th birthday, or the employee's 65th birthday if it should fall on the first day of the month.
(h)	The term, "retirant," means a person who has retired and has become and remains eligible for a pension under the pension plan.
(i)	An employee who is "totally and permanently disabled," means one who is certified by a medical practitioner to be disabled oy bodily injury or disease other than disability which:
(i)	was contracted, suffered, or incurred while the employee was engaged in or resulted from his/her having engaged in, a criminal enterprise, or
(ii)	resulted from wilfully self-inflicted injury, or
(iii)	can be established as due to service in armed forces of any country,
which will presumably permanently, continuously and wholly prevent him/ her, during the remainder of his/her life, from meeting the requirement of any job whatsoever for which the employee is reasonably suited by virtue of the employee's education, training, or experience. Such medical practitioner, referred to above, shall be a medical doctor, licensed to practice under the laws of a province of Canada or of the place where the employee resides.
(j)	An employee who is "occupationally disabled," means one who is certified
by a medical practitioner to be disabled by bodily injury or disease other than disability which:
(i) was contracted, suffered, or incurred while the employee was engaged in or resulted from his/her having engaged in, a criminal enterprise, or
(ii)	resulted from wilfully self-inflicted injury, or
(iii)	can be established as due to service in armed forces of any country,
which will presumably permanently, continuously and wholly prevent him/her, during the remainder of his/her life, from meeting the requirements of any job whatsoever covered by the Collective Agreement. Such medical practitioner, referred to above, shall be a medical doctor, licensed to practice under the laws of a province of Canada or of the place where the employee resides.
(k)	The term, "statutory benefit," means the amount of any pension plan,
old-age, or disability benefit payments, including any future increases therein, which occurs before retirement, payable under any Federal and/or Provincial legislation amending, superceding, supplementing, or incorporating existing Federal and/or Provincial legislation to which a retirant shall be or upon application would be entitled; provided that
4
such term does not include Workers' Compensation or a benefit payable pursuant to occupational disease laws or a benefit payable on a "needs test" basis or solely on account of blindness or service in the armed forces or other national service or a benefit payable to or in respect of dependents, or a benefit payable under the Old Age Security Act, Canada, and the term, "Old Age Security Date," means the first day of the month in which the employee or retirant first qualifies (or could qualify but for some act or failure to act by him/her or by another on his/her behalf, such as leaving Canada, failing to make timely application for benefit, or failing to notify the proper authority of his/her address), for benefit under the provisions of the Old Age Security Act, Canada, as in effect at the first day of June, 1998.
(l)	Subject to the provisions of Clause 8.01, the term "effective date of
the pension plan", means the first day of June, 1998.
(m)	The term, "pension plan", means the Company's non-contributory pension
plan as set forth hereinafter.
(n)	The term, "Deferred Vested Interest", or "Deferred Vested pension",
means vesting as defined in Clause 1.08.
(o)	The term, "Deferred Life Annuity", means deferred life annuity as
defined in The Pension Benefits Act of Ontario.
(P) The term "spouse" means the person of the opposite sex who at the earlier of the commencement of an employee's pension and the date of his/her death meets one of the following eligibility requirements:
(i)	the person who is the lawfully wedded spouse of the employee; or
(ii)	in the absence of an individual meeting the conditions of
paragraph (p) (i) , the person who has resided with such employee as his/her spouse for a continuous period of three years or more and has been publicly represented as his/her spouse; or
(iii)	in the absence of an individual meeting the conditions of
paragraph (p) (i) or (p) (ii) , the person living in a conjugal relationship of some permanence with the employee provided they are the natural or adoptive parents of a child;
provided that not more than one person shall be a spouse hereunder and in the event of more than one person having claims to be such, the determination of the Company as to which person shall be the spouse, on the basis of evidence available to it and which it considers sufficient for the purposes of such determination, shall be final.
(q) The term "YMPE" means the Year's Maximum Pensionable Earnings established each year under the Canada Pension Plan as amended from time to time or under any superceding legislation.
(r)	The term "Special Early Commencement Date" means the date on which an
employee's pension commences as a result of his/her retirement under the provisions of clause 1.03.
(s)	The term "Early Commencement Date" means the date on which an employee's
(pension commences as a result of his/her retirement under the provisions of clause 1.04.
5
Wherever the masculine gender appears in this Agreement, it shall be construed as meaning male or female, unless the context in the Clause requires otherwise.
ARTICLE I
ELIGIBILITY FOR RETIREMENT AND
AMOUNT OF PENSION
1.01	Normal Retirement
(1)	An employee
(a)	who has been in active employment on or after the effective date of
the Plan, and
(b)	who has attained age sixty-five (65), and
(c)	who has credited service
may retire on or after the first day of June, 1998 and is eligible for a Normal Retirement Pension upon his/her retirement.
(2)	The normal retirement pension is to consist of
(a)	(i) a basic monthly pension for life at forty dollars ($40.00)
for each year of credited service for an employee whose retirement is on or after June 1, 1998 but prior to June 1, 1999, or
(ii) a basic monthly pension for life at forty-one dollars ($41.00) for each year of credited service for an employee whose retirement is on or after June 1, 1999 but prior to June 1, 2000, or
(iii)	a basic monthly pension for life at forty-two dollars ($42.00) for each year of credited service for an employee whose retirement is on or after June 1, 2000.
(b) a supplementary monthly pension payable with each monthly payment of the basic pension up to and including the payment for the month in which the Old Age Security date occurs; the amount of such supplementary pension to be fourteen dollars ($14.00) multiplied by the number of years of credited service up to a maximum of thirty (30) years of such service for an employee whose retirement is on or after June 1, 1998.
1.02	Automatic Retirement
An employee, or a former employee eligible to receive a pension as provided in Clause 1.01, shall be retired on his/her normal retirement date.
1.03	Special Early Retirement
(1) An employee
(a)	who has attained age sixty-two (62) but not age sixty-five (65) ,
and
(b)	who has ten (10) or more years of credited service, and
6
(c)	who has acquired any credited service since attaining age sixty-two (62)
may retire on or after the first day of June, 1998, and is eligible for a Special Early Retirement pension upon his/her retirement.
(2)	An employee
(a)	who has attained age fifty-five (55) but not age sixty-two (62) , and
(b)	who has thirty (30) or more years of credited service, and
(c)	who has acquired any credited service since attaining age fifty-
five (55) ,
may retire on or after the first day of June, 1998, and is eligible for a Special Early Retirement pension upon his/her retirement.
(3)	The Special Early Retirement pension is to be calculated, as to the
basic portion and the supplementary portions, in the same manner as for normal retirement.
(4)	An employee who has 30 or more years of credited service may elect to
retire on or after the effective date of this Agreement and is eligible for a Special Early Retirement pension to be calculated as to the basic portion and the supplementary portions, in the same manner as for normal retirement.
(5)	Notwithstanding the foregoing, the amount of supplementary monthly
pension payable to an employee at his/her Special Early Commencement Date shall not exceed the amount determined in accordance with applicable legislative requirements.
1.04	Early Retirement
(1)	An employee
(a)	who has attained age sixty (60) but not age sixty-two (62) or is between age sixty-two (62) and age sixty-five (65) but does not qualify for Special Early Retirement, and
(b)	who has ten (10) or more years of credited service, and
(c)	who has acquired any credited service since attaining age sixty
(60) ,
may retire on or after the first day of June, 1998 and be eligible for an Early Retirement pension in the event of such retirement but discharge for cause is not to be considered as retirement for the purpose of this subsection.
(2)	An employee
(a)	who has attained age fifty-five (55) but not age sixty (60) or is
between age sixty (60) and age sixty-five (65) but does not qualify for Early Retirement under subsection (1) of this section or for Special Early Retirement, and
(b)	whose combined age (computed to completed months for a fractional
7
year) and period of credited service (computed to completed months for a fractional year) total eighty-five (85) years or more, and
(c)	who has acquired any credited service since attaining age fifty-five (55)
may retire on or after the first day of June, 1998 and be eligible for an Early Retirement pension in the event of such retirement but discharge for cause is not to be considered as retirement for the purpose of this subsection.
(3)	The Early Retirement Pension is, at the employee's option, to be either
(a)	a deferred monthly pension calculated as to the basic portion and the supplementary portion, in the same manner as for Normal Retirement, the payment of which is to commence with the month following that in which the employee attains age sixty-two (62), or
(b)	An immediate pension, the monthly amount of which is first to be
computed, as to the basic portion and the Supplementary portion, in the same manner as for Normal Retirement but each monthly payment of the basic pension and each monthly payment of a supplementary pension, whether becoming payable before, during, or after the month in which the Retirant becomes eligible or is deemed to become eligible for a Statutory Benefit, is to be reduced by either
(i)	four-tenths (4/10) of one per cent for each complete month, if any, to elapse from the date of Early Retirement to the first (1st) day of the month coincident with or next following the sixty-second (62nd) anniversary of the Retirant's birth, or
(ii)	four-tenths (4/10) of one per cent for each full month, if any, by which the Retirant's credited service at his/her date of early retirement is less than thirty (30) years, whichever reduction is less.
(4)	Notwithstanding the foregoing, the amount of supplementary monthly pension payable to an employee at his/her Early Commencement Date shall not exceed the amount determined in accordance with applicable legislative requirements.
1.05	Legislated Retirement
(1) An employee
(a)	who has attained age fifty-five (55) but not age sixty-five (65)
but does not qualify for Special Early Retirement or Early
Retirement, and
(b)	who has two (2) or more years of credited service, and
(c)	who has acquired any credited service since attaining age fifty-
five (55) ,
may retire on or after the first day of June, 1998 and be eligible for a Legislated Retirement pension in the event of such retirement.
8
(2) The Legislated Retirement Pension is to be an immediate pension, the monthly amount of which is first to be computed, as to the basic portion only, in the same manner as for Normal Retirement but each monthly payment of the basic pension is to be reduced so that it is actuarially equivalent in value to such basic pension commencing at the employee's normal retirement date. For greater certainty, an employee receiving a Legislated Retirement Pension will not receive a Supplementary pension.
1.06	Absence from Work
Absence of an employee or former employee from active employment at any time when s/he would otherwise be eligible for Normal Retirement, Special Early Retirement, Early Retirement or Legislated Retirement is not to preclude such Retirement at such time provided such absence is due to disability or sick leave, lay-off or other Company-approved leave of absence and provided the employee has retained his/her credited service under a collective agreement since s/he was last in employment.
1.07	Total and Permanent Disability
(1)	An employee
(a)	who becomes totally and permanently disabled while accumulating credited service with the Company, and
(b)	who has ten (10) or more years of credited service at the time of occurrence of total and permanent disability,
may retire on Disability Retirement on or after the first day of June, 1998 and prior to his/her normal retirement date and is eligible for a Disability Retirement pension in the event of such retirement.
(2)	The Disability Retirement pension is to be calculated, as to the basic
portion and the supplementary portion, in the same manner as for normal retirement, but, while the basic portion and supplementary portion are applicable, the Supplementary Portion is subject to deduction of the Statutory Benefit.
(3) There is not to be any duplication of a pension under this Section 1.07
by a pension under any other Section of this Article I.
(4)	A retirant on Disability Retirement is reguired to submit to a physical
examination at any time during such Retirement up to his/her normal retirement date for the purpose of determining his/her condition, whenever such examination is requested by the Company, but not more often than twice in any calendar year after total and permanent disability has been established.
(5)	A retirant who refuses to submit to any physical examination properly
requested in accordance with the provisions of subsection (4) of this Section 1.07 is to have his/her Disability Retirement suspended until s/he does submit to such examination.
(6)	If, after his/her retirement on Disability Retirement but before his/her
normal retirement date, a retirant ceases to be totally and permanently disabled or engaged in any occupation or work with job requirements similar to the requirements of any job whatsoever for which the employee is reasonably suited by virtue of the employee's education, training, or
9
experience, his/her Disability Retirement may be terminated by the Company.
(7)	Where Disability Retirement is terminated pursuant to the provisions of
subsection (6) of this Section 1.07, the former employee is to be rehired by the Company in a capacity consistent with his/her physical and mental ability and with the credited service which s/he had immediately prior to commencement of his/her Disability Retirement.
(8)	An employee rehired pursuant to the provisions of subsection (7) of this
Section is, upon his/her return to work, to be credited with the credited service which s/he had immediately prior to the commencement of his/her Disability Retirement, and no other account is to be taken of his/her previous retirement in determining his/her rights and benefits on and after a subsequent retirement.
1.08	Occupational Disability
(1)	An employee
(a)	who becomes occupationally disabled while accumulating credited service with the Company, and
(b)	who has ten (10) or more years of credited service at the time of occurrence of occupational disability,
may retire on Occupational Disability Retirement on or after the first day of June, 1992 and prior to his/her normal retirement date and is eligible for an Occupational Disability Retirement pension in the event of such retirement.
(2)	The Occupational Disability Retirement pension is to be calculated, as
to the basic portion and the supplementary portion, in the same manner as for normal retirement, but, while the basic portion and supplementary portion are applicable, the Supplementary Portion is subject to deduction of the Statutory Benefit.
The basic portion of the Occupational Disability Retirement pension will be reduced by one quarter of one percent (0.25%) for each month, if any, that the pension commencement date precedes the earliest of:
(a)	the date the employee attains age 60;
(b)	the date the employee would have completed, had the employee continued in employment after his/her occupational disability date, thirty (30) years of credited service; or
(c)	the date on which the aggregate of the employee's age and years of credited service would have been, had the employee continued in employment after his/her occupational disability date, equal to 80 years.
The supplementary pension will not exceed the maximum allowable under Regulation 8503(2) (b) of the Income Tax Act.
(3)	There is not to be any duplication of a pension under this Section 1.08
by a pension under any other Section of this Article i.
(4)	A retirant on Occupational Disability Retirement ia required to submit
to a physical examination at any time during such Retirement up to his/her normal retirement date for the purpose of determining his/her
10
condition, whenever such examination is requested by the Company, but not more often than twice in any calendar year after occupational disability has been established.
(5)	Aretirant who refuses to submit to any physical examination properly requested in accordance with the provisions of subsection (4) of this Section 1.08 is to have his/her Occupational Disability Retirement suspended until s/he does submit to such examination.
(6)	If, after his/her retirement on Occupational Disability Retirement but before his/her normal retirement date, a retirant ceases to be occupationally disabled or engages in any occupation or work with job requirements similar to the requirements of any job whatsoever covered by the Collective Agreement, his/her Occupational Disability Retirement may be terminated by the Company.
(7)	Where Occupational Disability Retirement is terminated pursuant to the provisions of subsection (6) of this Section, the former employee is to be rehired by the Company in a capacity consistent with his/her physical and mental ability and with the credited service which s/he had immediately prior to commencement of his/her Occupational Disability Retirement.
(8)	An employee rehired pursuant to the provisions of subsection (7) of this Section is, upon his/her return to work, to be credited with the credited service which s/he had immediately prior to the commencement of his/her Occupational Disability Retirement, and no other account is to be taken of his/her previous retirement in determining his/her rights and benefits on and after a subsequent retirement.
1.09	Deferred Vested Pension
(1) An employee whose services with the Company are terminated on or after
June 1, 1998 and prior to the completion of two (2) years of Credited Service at the date of termination of employment, shall not be eligible to receive any benefit under the terms of the Pension Plan.
(2)	An employee
(a)	whose services with the Company are terminated on or after June 1,
1998, and
(b)	who is not and does not become eligible for a severance award under the Severance Award Agreement, between the Company and the Union
is, upon application made not earlier than sixty (60) days prior to his/her normal retirement date, to be considered a retirant for the purposes of the Pension Plan, but for no other purpose, and as being entitled to payment of his/her deferred vested interest in the Pension Plan (but no other benefit) commencing with the later of the month following that in which s/he attains age sixty-five (65) or the month following that in which application is made therefor.
(3)	(a) Plan Vested Pension
For a former employee who, provided s/he had ten (10) years or more of credited service at the date of termination of employment, the monthly amount of the payment of deferred vested interest in the Pension Plan is to be $40.00 for each year of the credited service
11
which s/he had immediately prior to termination of his/her service if the date his/her service terminated was on or after the first day of June, 1998 but prior to June 1, 1999, or $41.00 for each year of the credited service up to the date of the termination of his/her service if the date his/her service terminated was on or after June 1, 1999 but prior to June 1, 2000, or $42.00 for each year of the credited service up to the date of the termination of his/her service if the date his/her service terminated was on or after June 1, 2000.
(b) Legislated Vested Pension
For a former employee who, provided s/he has two (2) years or more, but less than ten (10) years of credited service at the date of termination of employment, the monthly amount of the payment of deferred vested interest in the Pension Plan is to be calculated in the amounts as set out in subsection (3) (a) above but only for credited service accrued on or after January 1, 1987 and up to the date of the termination of his/her service. In addition, such former employee referred to herein whose service terminated on or after the first day of June, 1998, shall be eligible for a pension in respect of credited service up to January 1, 1987 calculated in the amount of the increase in the basic pension formula from that in effect at January 1, 1987.
(4)	At the employee's election, the pension under this Clause 1.09 may
commence on the first day of any month following attainment of age fifty-five (55) . In this case, the pension will be reduced to be actuarially equivalent in value to the pension otherwise payable at Normal Retirement Date. Application for such retirement income must be made in writing by the Employee not earlier than sixty (60) days prior to his/her elected date of commencement of such income.
(5)	An employee entitled to receive pension in accordance with Clause 1.09
or the spouse of a deceased employee who is entitled to pension under the Pension Plan may direct that the lump sum that is actuarially equivalent in value to such pension:
(a) be transferred to another registered employers' pension plan, or
(b) be transferred to such other registered vehicle, as may be approved
under applicable pension legislation and Revenue Rules, in the name of the employee, or spouse where applicable, or
(c)	be applied towards the purchase of an immediate or deferred life
annuity commencing prior to the employee's attainment of age sixty-nine (69), or at the employee's beneficiary's attainment of age sixty-five (65), if applicable, in a form acceptable under Revenue Rules,
provided, however, that the administrator of such plan or the issuer of the annuity agrees in writing to administer such transferred pension credit as a deferred life annuity within the conditions of applicable pension legislation.
The transfers under this subsection shall be subject to any limitations prescribed under applicable pension legislation in respect of such transfer of monies.
12
(6)	The provisions dealing with deferred vested interests in each previous
Pension Plan Agreement between the Company and the Union are to continue to apply to a former employee whose service with the Company was terminated during the currency of such Agreement.
(7)	An employee whose employment is terminated and who is eligible for a
benefit under Clause 1.09 based on information then on file with the Company will be notified, at the time of termination, of his/her eligibility for a deferred vested pension.
1.10	Pension on Closure
In the event of the complete and permanent closure of Uniroyal Goodrich Tire Manufacturing, Kitchener Plant, Kitchener, Ontario, an employee who has 25 or
more years of credited service and is not otherwise eligible for a pension according to the Pension Plan Agreement shall be eligible for an immediate pension under this provision. The amount of such immediate pension shall be determined in accordance with Article I clause 1.01(2) (a) and applicable legislative requirements.
No retirant receiving a pension on closure under this clause 1.10 shall be entitled to any pension or award under any other article or clause of this Pension Agreement.
1.11	Death Prior to Pension Commencement
In the event of the death of an employee entitled to pension under clause 1.09 as applicable, prior to the commencement of pension under the Pension Plan, the following benefit is payable to his/her spouse unless waived in prescribed form in accordance with pension legislation applicable to the Agreement:
The actuarial equivalent value of the basic portion of the pension that the employee would have been eligible to receive in accordance with Clause 1.03, Clause 1.04, Clause 1.05 or Clause 1.09 assuming that the Employee retired or terminated employment, as applicable, on the date of death.
At the spouse's election, the benefit shall be payable as an annuity commencing on or before the spouse's attainment of age sixty-five (65) or as a lump sum. If the Employee has no spouse at date of death, the above benefit shall be payable in a lump sum to the beneficiary designated by him/her to receive such benefits.
ARTICLE II
STATUTORY BENEFIT DETERMINATION
2.01
(1) Where a Retirant is eligible to receive a Statutory Benefit from the date of his/her retirement, the monthly amounts to which s/he is so entitled from and after retirement (or would be so entitled but for some act or failure to act by him/her or by another on his/her behalf, such as having disqualifying or partially disqualifying earnings, failing to make timely application for benefit or failing to notify the proper authority of his/her address) constitute the monthly amounts of his/her Statutory Benefit for the purposes of the plan and are not to be
13
affected by	any pension	index,	earnings'	index, or	other	similar
escalation in the Statutory Benefit after retirement.
(2) In the case of any other Retirant,
(a)	his Statutory Benefit is to be deemed to commence at the earliest date of eligibility therefor, and
(b)	the monthly amounts of his/her Statutory Benefit for the purposes
of the Plan are the monthly amounts, determined on the basis of the laws, regulations, rules, and practices in effect at the date of retirement, to which s/he will be entitled from and after such earliest date of eligibility neglecting:
(i)	any pension	index,	earnings'	index, or	other	similar
escalation in the Statutory Benefit after retirement, and
(ii)	any change in laws, regulations, rules, or practices
taking effect after retirement, and
(iii)	any change in benefit due to earnings after retirement, and
(iv)	any loss of benefit or change in benefit due to some act or failure to act by the Retirant or by another on his/her behalf, such as having disqualifying or partially disqualifying earnings while eligible for benefit, failing to make timely application for benefit or failing to notify the proper authority of his/her address.
(3)	In applying the provisions of subsections (1) and (2) of this Section 1, and of Sections 2 and 3 of this Article II, no account is to be taken of any option to receive a Statutory Benefit in a reduced amount on account of receiving it prior to the normal earliest date of eligibility therefor and the Statutory Benefit and the earliest date of eligibility therefor are to be determined for the purposes of the Plan as if such option had not been and could not be exercised but a Statutory Benefit available on account of disability is not to be construed as an option to receive a Statutory Benefit in a reduced amount on account of receiving it at an earlier age.
2.02	In the case of each Retirant, the Company is to determine, as of the date of retirement:
(a) the estimated monthly amounts of Statutory Benefit available from and after the earliest date of eligibility therefor, such estimate
(i)	to be based on the laws, regulations, rules and practices in effect at the date of retirement, and
(ii)	to be made on bases designed to protect the Plan against over-payment and to that end, may be determined as if the Retirant had been in full-time, active employment with the Company from and including the first day of January, 1966 up to the date of retirement, and
(iii)	not to assume any earnings after retirement or any pension index, earnings' index, or other similar escalation in the
14
monthly amounts of the Statutory Benefit after retirement, and
(b) unless the Retirant is eligible or deemed to be eligible to receive a Statutory Benefit from the date of his/her retirement, the anticipated earliest date of eligibility for Statutory Benefit, such determination to be based on the laws, regulations, rules and practices in effect at the date of retirement.
2.03	The determinations by the Company pursuant to Section 2 of this Article II are to control and govern in the operation of the Plan and in calculations of the payments and changes in the payments to be made thereunder except as follows:
(a)	if a Retirant establishes to the satisfaction of the Company
(i)	that the earliest date of eligibility for Statutory Benefit anticipated by the Company is in advance of the actual earliest date of eligibility therefor, and
(ii)	that the deferment from the anticipated date to the actual date is not due to:
(A)	any act or failure to act by him/her or by another on his/her behalf, such as having disqualifying earnings while eligible for benefit or failing to make timely application for benefit, or
(B)	any change in laws, regulations, rules or practices taking effect after his/her retirement,
the earliest date of eligibility for Statutory Benefit is to be corrected and his/her pension to be recalculated accordingly, and/or
(b)	if a Retirant, following application for correction made to the
Company within twelve (12) months of his/her earliest date of eligibility for Statutory Benefit establishes to the satisfaction of the Company that the monthly amounts of his/her Statutory Benefit have not been correctly estimated, on the basis stipulated in paragraph (a) of Section 2 of this Article II, the estimate is to be corrected and his/her pension to be recalculated accordingly, and/or
(c)	if a Retirant makes application for use of actual Statutory Benefit within twelve (12) months of his/her earliest date of eligibility for Statutory Benefit and establishes to the satisfaction of the Company,
(i)	that the amounts of his/her Statutory Benefit differ by at least one dollar ($1) per month from the estimated amounts of Statutory Benefit, and
(ii)	that such difference does not result from any act or failure to act by him/her or by another on his/her behalf, such as having disqualifying or partially disqualifying earnings while eligible for benefit, failing to make
15
timely application for benefit, or failing to notify the proper authority of his/her address
his/her application for use of actual Statutory Benefit is to be accepted by the Company and his/her pension is to be recalculated accordingly, but taking into account the provisions of subsection (3) of Section 1 of this Article II.
ARTICLE III CREDITED SERVICE
3.01 An employee's credited service shall mean the period of time dating from an employee's company service date in effect as of June 1, 1998, as established by prior rules and policies, or as thereafter adjusted or determined by the service credit rules and other applicable provisions of the Collective Agreement dated June 1, 1998, but no credited service shall be accumulated while s/he was on Disability Retirement under this Plan or any other Pension Plan of the Company.
An employee granted a leave of absence or extension of same under the last paragraph of Clause 10.08 of the Collective Agreement of June 1, 1998 between the Union and the Company or any leave of absence or extension granted under subsequent Collective Agreements between the Union and the Company shall, while on such approved leave or extension thereto, accumulate credited service for the purpose of determining eligibility for retirement. The additional service thus accumulated will be excluded from the computation of credited service for calculation of pension.
While on a Company approved leave of absence for sickness or injury, where such sickness or injury, as certified in writing by a qualified medical practitioner as defined herein, prevents the employee from performing the duties of the employment in which the employee was engaged before the commencement of the leave of absence for such sickness or injury, an employee may, without returning to active service, accumulate a maximum of one year additional credited service for the period from the last day of active employment. Such additional credited service will be used in the determination of eligibility for retirement and in the computation of credited service for calculation of pension.
Credited service is to be computed to completed months for a fractional year.
3.02 The records of the Company shall be presumed to be conclusive of the facts concerning the credited service, employment, non-employment, or disability retirement of any employee, a former employee, retirant, or applicant for a pension, unless shown beyond a reasonable doubt to be incorrect. An applicant for pension or retirant shall prove his/her age by evidence satisfactory to the company.
ARTICLE IV PAYMENT OF PENSIONS
4.01 Net Amount Payable
No employee, former employee, or retirant is entitled to a pension under the Pension Plan Agreement, except as expressly provided in this Article IV.
16
4.02 Date of Payment
(1)	The pension payable to a retirant on normal (including automatic)
retirement, a retirant on special early retirement, a retirant who has elected the immediate pension available in the event of early retirement, or a retirant on legislated retirement:
(a)	becomes payable, if s/he is then living:
(i)	on his/her normal retirement date, or
(ii) for special early retirement during the month next following the date on which s/he files an application for such pension with the Company, or
(iii)	for non-deferred early retirement during the month next following the date on which s/he files an application for such pension with the Company, or
(iv)	for legislated retirement during the month next following the date on which s/he files an application for such pension with the Company, and
(b)	is payable during each month thereafter during his/her lifetime.
(2)	The pension payable to a retirant who has elected the deferred pension
available in the event of Early Retirement:
(a)	becomes payable, if s/he is then living, during the month next
following the date on which s/he attains age sixty-two (62) .
(b)	is payable during each month thereafter during his/her lifetime.
(3)	The pension payable to a retirant on Disability Retirement:
(a)	becomes payable, if s/he is then living, on the first day of the
month next following the latest of,
(i) the date on which his/her Disability Retirement commences, or
(ii)	the date on which s/he ceases to receive remuneration from the Company, or
(iii)	the date on which s/he ceases to be eligible for a weekly indemnity benefit under the Insurance Program Agreement, between the Company and the Union, or
(iv)	the date on which s/he files an application for such pension with the Company on a form supplied by the Company, and
(b)	is payable during each month thereafter up to and including the
earlier of:
(i)	the month in which his/her Disability Retirement is terminated pursuant to the provisions of subsection (6) of Clause 1.07, or
(ii)	the month in which s/he dies.
17
(4)	The Company may adopt such procedures as it may find convenient with respect to the payment of pensions where the net annual amount payable is less than two percent (2%) of the YMPE as at the date of retirement, disability, or termination of employment and may pay any such pension quarterly, semi-annually or annually, or if permitted by law, by a lump sum payment which in the opinion of the Company, is of equivalent actuarial value.
4.03	Term Certain Pension and Optional Form of Normal Pension
(1)	The basic portion of a Normal (including automatic), Special Early or
Early Retirement Pension but not the supplementary portions, is payable for a term certain commencing with the date of retirement and ending with the month in which the 60th monthly payment falls due, and for the Retirant's remaining lifetime if any.
(2)	Any payments to be made pursuant to subsection (1) of this Clause 4.03
after a retirant's death are to be made as they respectively fall due, to the retirant's beneficiary, if any, otherwise to his/her estate.
(3)	An employee has the right, by notice in writing on a form supplied by
the Company, to elect that, if and when s/he becomes entitled to a Normal (including automatic), Special Early, or Early Retirement pension, and without affecting the supplementary portion of such pension, the basic portion shall be converted as of and from the date of his/her retirement into an adjusted basic pension of equal actuarial value as determined by the Company payable for a ten (10) or fifteen (15) year term certain as specified in said notice of election and for his/her remaining lifetime, if any.
(4)	An employee who has made or is deemed to have made an election pursuant
to subsection (3) of this Clause 4.03 may, at any time prior to his/her retirement, revoke such election by submitting written notice of such revocation to the Company, but may not make another election pursuant to subsection (3) of this Clause 4.03.
(5)	An election made or deemed to have been made by an employee pursuant to
subsection (3) of this Clause 4.03 is inoperative and ineffective in the event of the death of the employee prior to retirement.
(6)	Where an election made or deemed to have been made pursuant to
subsection (3) of this Clause 4.03 comes into effect and the retirant dies prior to the month of expiry of the term certain elected, payments of the actuarially equivalent adjusted basic pension, but not the supplementary pension, are to be made to the retirant's beneficiary, if any, otherwise to his/her estate from and including the month following the retirant's death to and including the month of expiry of the term certain elected.
(7)	The estate of a retirant or of a beneficiary has the right, at any time
when entitled to receive any payment pursuant to subsection (2) or (6) of this Clause 4.03, to elect to receive, in lieu of the remaining payments to the estate, a lump sum settlement equal to the commuted value of such remaining payments, such commuted value to be calculated on the basis of interest at such rate as may be determined by the company.
18
4.04 Spouse Option
Notwithstanding any of the provisions of this Pension Plan Agreement, a spouse option pension may be payable in accordance with the provisions of this Clause 4.04. An employee who shall have attained age fifty (50) and is accumulating credited service and has a spouse as defined in section 1.01(b) (i) of Article I of the Insurance Program may prior to the employee's retirement or his/her becoming totally and permanently disabled, elect as a spouse option election that the employee's pension be payable as follows:
(a)	provided the employee's election is in effect at his/her normal
(including Automatic), special early or early retirement, the basic monthly pension amount determined pursuant to Clauses 1.01, 1.02, 1.03, or 1.04 of Article I shall be converted into a reduced pension of egual actuarial value as determined by the employer and shall be payable each month thereafter during the employee's lifetime. Commencing with the month following the month of the death of the pensioner, a spouse option pension equal to fifty (50) percent of such actuarially-reduced basic monthly pension shall be payable to the said spouse, provided such spouse is then living, each month thereafter during the lifetime of such spouse. Any supplementary pension payable to the employee shall be payable as otherwise provided in this Pension Plan Agreement.
(b)	if the employee dies while accumulating credited service, while eligible
to retire except under Clause 1.05 and prior to the employee's retirement and while the employee's election under this clause 4.04 is in effect, there shall be a spouse option pension payable to the said spouse, provided such spouse is then living, commencing with the month following the month of the employee's death and each month thereafter during such spouse's lifetime. The amount of the spouse option pension shall be equal to fifty (50) percent of that basic monthly pension amount which would have been payable to the employee if the employee had retired immediately prior to the death and the employee's basic monthly pension had been determined and converted in accordance with (a) above.
The amount of the survivor's pension will be reduced by the pension payable to the spouse under Clause 1.10 as though the spouse had elected the annuity option under Clause 1.10.
An employee's spouse option election shall be made by application in writing on a form supplied by the employer and submitted to the employer with proof of age and of the marriage. Such election shall be irrevocable, provided, however, that the death of said spouse or dissolution of their marriage prior to the date on which the first pension payment is due to the employee shall nullify the spouse option election. An employee's spouse option election shall be effective upon submission of the employee's application if such application is also accompanied by evidence of the employee's good health satisfactory to the employer, otherwise such election shall be effective at the earlier of (i) the expiration of a one-year (l-year) period from the date of submission of application with proof of age and of the marriage or (ii) submission of such evidence of good health and proof of age and of the marriage, provided, however, that no election may become effective after the employee's retirement date.
If an employee's election under this Clause 4.04 shall have become effective, the amount of any basic monthly pension payable under this Pension Plan Agreement shall be further reduced. The amount of such reduction shall be determined on the basis of the period, or periods,
19
any one or more spouse option election was in effect and at a rate of 6/10ths of one (1) percent per year computed to 1/12 year for each completed month of such period or periods. If there is more than one period, the amount of reduction shall be cumulative. If the spouse option election is not in effect at the employee's retirement, pension benefits will be payable as otherwise provided in this Pension Plan Agreement.
(c)	Notwithstanding any other provision of this Pension Plan, with respect to the basic portion of the pension payable in the normal form, an employee entitled to such pension under the Pension Plan, shall elect, or shall for purposes of the Pension Plan be deemed to have elected, an optional form of pension under which s/he shall receive a pension actuarially equivalent in value to the basic portion of his/her pension, payable during his/her lifetime with the provision that on his/her death, sixty percent (60%) of such actuarially reduced pension shall be continued to his/her surviving Spouse during the spouse's lifetime. An employee may elect to receive such pension in the normal form or an alternative form as described in the Pension Plan provided a waiver has been signed in a manner prescribed under pension legislation applicable to the Pension Plan.
4.05	Beneficiary
(1)	Subject to the provisions of this Clause and to any applicable laws, an
employee or former employee may designate a beneficiary or a new beneficiary to receive the payments, if any, to be made under this Plan after his/her death.
(2)	An employee or former employee who has designated a beneficiary or a new
beneficiary pursuant to subsection (1) of this Clause 4.05 may revoke any such designation.
(3)	The right to designate a beneficiary or a new beneficiary or to revoke a
designation of a beneficiary pursuant to subsection (1) or (2) of this Clause 4.05 is to be exercised by the execution by the employee or former employee, and by delivery to the Company, of an instrument in writing which expressly provides that the designation or the revocation whichever is the case, is made with reference to this Plan.
(4) A designation of a beneficiary or a new beneficiary or a revocation of a
designation of a beneficiary made prior to the first day of June, 1998 by a person who is an employee on or after that date is and shall be deemed to have been made, in the case of a designation, pursuant to subsection (1) of this Clause 4.05, or in the case of revocation, pursuant to subsection (2) of this Clause 4.05.
(5)	Upon delivery to the Company, prior to or on or after the death of the
employee or former employee, of a designation of a beneficiary or a revocation of a designation of a beneficiary made or deemed to have been made pursuant to subsection (1) or (2) of this Clause 4.05, the designation or revocation, even if it is contained in a will or in an instrument purporting to be a will, relates back to and has effect as and from the date of its execution but without prejudice to the Company, the Trustees, or any Insurance Company on account of any payment or payments made under this Plan prior to such delivery.
20
(6)	Where an employee or former employee is not permitted to make a designation of beneficiary under the preceding provisions of this Clause
4.05,	any payments to be made with respect to him/her after his/her death will be made to his/her estate but no provision of this Plan is to be construed as taking away any rights of such employee or former employee to direct how monies received by his/her estate are to be distributed or otherwise dealt with by his/her personal representatives.
4.06	Retirant Unable to Care for his/her Affairs
(1)	If the Company finds that any retirant is unable to care for his/her affairs because of illness or accident, any payment due, unless a prior claim therefor has been made by a duly appointed guardian, committee or other legal representative, may be made to the spouse, a child, a parent, or to any other person deemed by the Company to have incurred expense for such retirant.
(2)	In acting under the authority of subsection (1) of this Clause 4.06, the Company is to endeavour to give effect to the wishes of the retirant where such wishes were expressed in writing by the retirant before s/he became unable to care for his/her affairs.
(3)	Any payment made pursuant to the preceding provisions of this Clause
4.06,	is a payment for the account of the retirant and is to constitute a complete discharge of all liability under the Plan therefor.
4.07	Governing Provisions
The preceding provisions of this Article IV are to be read, interpreted, and
construed as being subject to Clauses 7.07 and 7.08 (General Provisions).
4.08	Maximum Benefits
Anything to the contrary contained herein notwithstanding, the maximum amount of lifetime annual pension provided to any employee or former employee under this Plan and any other pension plan of the Company shall not exceed the product of (a) and (b) where:
(a)	is the lesser of:
(i) two percent (2%) of the average of the best three (3) years of remuneration of the employee; and
(ii) $1,722.22 or such higher amount as permitted under the Income Tax Act and the regulations thereunder, and
(b)	is the sum of:
(i)	the lesser of:
(A)	pensionable service prior to January 1, 1992; and
(B)	thirty-five (35) years, and
(ii)	pensionable service after December 31, 1991;
where pensionable service is the service permitted under the Income Tax Act and Regulations thereunder.
21
4.09 In no event shall the value of the total amount of retirement income payable on closure or on a special early, early retirement or legislated retirement date, excluding supplementary pension, exceed the value of a maximum pension as defined in Clause 4.08 above, payable at the earliest of age sixty (60) Of normal retirement age as a single life annuity guaranteed for ten years.
ARTICLE V
ADMINISTRATION
5.01	The Company shall have the sole responsibility and authority consistent with the provisions of this Agreement for the operation and administration of the Pension Plan.
ARTICLE VI
FINANCING
6.01	Pension Fund
(1)	The Company is to maintain a Pension Fund consisting of a trust fund or
funds and/or an Insurance Company and/or Canadian Government Annuities Branch contract or contracts for the purpose of providing benefits under the Plan.
(2)	The Company undertakes to make, during the continuance of the Plan,
payments and special payments into the Pension fund not less than:
(a)	all current service costs for each year, and
(b)	the equal annual amounts sufficient to liquidate any initial
unfunded liability existing on the first day of January, 1965 over a term not exceeding twenty-five (25) years from that date, and
(c)	the equal annual amounts sufficient to liquidate any additional past service liability created as of the 1st day of November, 1965 and additional past service liability created as of the 1st day of November, 1968, and as of the 1st day of October, 1971, and as of the 1st day of October, 1974, and as of the 1st day of October, 1977, and as of the 1st day of October, 1980, and as of the 1st day of October, 1983, and as of the 1st day of June, 1986, and as of the 1st day of June, 1989, and as of the 1st of June, 1992, as of the first day of June 1995, and by this Agreement as of the 1st day of June, 1998, over a term not extending beyond the limits specified in the Pension Benefits Act of Ontario.
(d)	the equal annual amounts sufficient to liquidate any solvency
deficiency over a term not exceeding that permitted by the Pension Benefits Act of Ontario, from the date such solvency deficiency is determined, and
(e)	such amounts as may be required to maintain in the Pension fund,
assets estimated, on a sound actuarial basis, to be sufficient to pay all benefits theretofor awarded to Retirants on or after their respective retirement dates under the Plan, and
22
(f)	where special payments have been or are made pursuant to paragraph
(b) and/or paragraph (c) and/or paragraph (d) hereof in excess of the amount or amounts stipulated therein, the equal annual amounts required to be paid thereafter pursuant to the said paragraph or paragraphs may be recomputed accordingly.
(g)	Notwithstanding the foregoing, contributions made to the Pension
Plan by the Company after 1991 must be in accordance with all legislative requirements under the Pension Benefits Act of Ontario and the Income Tax Act and the rules and regulations thereunder and the company must take whatever steps are required by the legislative authorities to ensure that the Plan remains registered.
(3)	All payments made into the Pension Fund are to be held and administered in accordance with all applicable Federal and Provincial legislation, and specifically including The Pension Benefits Act of Ontario.
6.02	Disbursements from Pension Fund
(1)	The Pension fund is to be used, on proper authorization of the Company
in accordance with the Plan, to pay such benefits as are payable under the Plan.
(2)	No employee, prior to the award of a benefit to him/her under the Plan,
is to have any right to a benefit or any interest in any trust fund or Insurance Company or Canadian Government Annuities Branch contract established or entered into for the purpose of providing benefits under the Plan.
6.03	Benefits Payable Solely from Pension Fund
(1)	The benefits payable in accordance with the provisions of the Plan are
paid solely from the Pension Fund and each employee, retirant or other person who claims the right to any payment under the Plan is entitled to look only to the Pension Fund for such payment.
(2)	No liability for the payment of benefits under the Plan is imposed upon
the Company or upon the officers, directors, or shareholders of the Company save to any extent to which the Company may fail to carry out the provisions of Clause 6.01 of this Article VI.
6.04	Non-Alienation of Benefits
(1)	The pension benefits provided under the terms of this Plan are for the
employee's own use and benefit and are not capable of assignment or alienation and do not confer upon the employee, any personal representative or dependent, or any other person, any right or interest in the said pension benefits capable of being assigned or otherwise alienated.
(2)	To the fullest extent permitted by the laws applicable, the benefits
under this Plan are not subject to attachment or legal process for debts of retirants or beneficiaries.
(3)	Support and Division of Property on Marriage Breakdown
(a) Subject to the Pension Benefits Act of Ontario and pursuant to a written agreement, decree, order or judgement of a competent
23
tribunal, a benefit payable under the Pension Plan may be subject to execution, seizure or attachment in satisfaction of an order for support or maintenance or may be assigned, pledged, charged, encumbered or alienated to satisfy a division of matrimonial property.
(b)	The determination of the benefit payable to a person under
paragraph (a) and of the employee's remaining benefit entitlements shall be subject to the Pension Benefits Act of Ontario and the Income Tax Act and the rules and regulations thereunder.
(c)	The benefits payable under the Pension Plan shall be reduced by an
amount which is actuarially equivalent in value to the benefit payable under paragraphs (3) (a) and (3) (b) of this clause 6.04.
6.05 The Employer shall not receive, at any time, any amounts from the Fund, except such amounts as may remain after termination of the Pension Plan and the satisfaction of all liabilities under this Pension Plan and such amounts as may arise out of the variation in actual from expected actuarial requirements or as may arise in such other manner as may be permitted under the then applicable policies of the Department of National Revenue and applicable Pension Benefits legislation, which exception amounts shall revert to the Company, subject to the approval of any applicable statutory authorities.
ARTICLE VII GENERAL PROVISIONS
7.01	No employee shall be required or permitted during the term of this Agreement or of any renewal thereof, to make any contribution to or under any pension plan of the Company. Any vested interests which the employees have acquired in the benefits purchased by contributions made by and for them to date under the Company's joint contributory plan formerly in effect shall be preserved.
7.02	The credited service of any employee who shall retire under the Pension Plan in accordance with the provisions of Article I thereof shall cease for the purpose of applying the provisions of any Collective Agreement which now is or hereinafter shall be in effect between the Company and the Union, except that if a retirant is rehired on cessation of his/her disability retirement, s/he shall be credited with the service which s/he had at the time of his/her disability retirement and shall accumulate further service from the time that s/he starts to work after his/her rehire.
7.03	The establishment of the Pension Plan shall not give any employee any additional right to be retained in the employment of the Company; and all employees shall remain subject to discipline, discharge, or layoff to the same extent as if such plan had not been put into effect.
7.04	If any dispute shall arise between the Company and any employee, applicant for a pension who is represented by the Union, or retirant with reference to eligibility, age, credited service, or amount of pension or as to his/her retirement by the Company, such dispute may be taken up as a grievance under the grievance provisions of the Collective Agreement then in effect, omitting, however, all steps preceding presentation of the grievance to the Manager Industrial Relations at the plant. If any such grievance
24
shall be taken to arbitration in accordance with such procedure, the arbitrator or Board of Arbitration, insofar as it shall be necessary to the determination of such grievance, shall have the authority only to interpret and apply the provisions of this Agreement and of the Collective Agreement. s/he or it shall have no authority to add to or subtract from any provisions of this Agreement or to waive or fail to apply any deductions or any requirement of eligibility for benefit under this Agreement. The decision of the arbitrator or Board of Arbitration on any grievance properly referred shall be binding upon the Company, the Union, the employee, applicant for pension, or retirant concerned therein.
7.05	If any dispute shall arise between the Company and any employee, applicant for a disability pension who is represented by the Union, or retirant on disability retirement as to whether such person is, or continues to be, totally and permanently disabled or occupationally disabled as defined in this Agreement, such dispute shall be resolved as follows:
The employee, applicant, or retirant shall be examined by a physician appointed for that purpose by the Company and by a physician appointed for that purpose by the Union. If they shall disagree concerning total and permanent disability or occupationally disabled the question shall be submitted to a third physician selected by the said two physicians. The opinion of the third physician, after examination of the employee, applicant, or retirant, and consultation with the other two physicians, shall decide such question and such decision shall be binding upon the Company, the Union, and the employee, applicant, or retirant concerned therein. Any physician appointed or selected as provided for herein must be legally licensed to practice medicine and the fees and expenses of the third physician shall be shared equally by the Company and the Union. If the dispute is as to whether or when an employee had become totally and permanently disabled or occupationally disabled and the decision made pursuant to this paragraph is that the employee is totally and permanently disabled or occupationally disabled, s/he is and shall be deemed to have become totally and permanently disabled or occupationally disabled as to the commencement of continuous total disability.
7.06	The Union shall be furnished with such pertinent information as it may request from time to time concerning the operation and administration of the pension plan, and awards thereunder, insofar as it affects employees, or applicants for pension who are represented by the Union and retirants.
7.07	Deferred Life Annuity
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained elsewhere in this Agreement, a person who is employed by the Company in the bargaining unit and is enrolled on the factory payroll is entitled, upon termination of his/her employment prior to his/her attaining retirement age, to a deferred life annuity payable during his/her remaining lifetime but in any event with the guarantee that at least a total of sixty (60) payments will be made commencing in the month following that in which s/he attains age sixty-five (65) .
Application for payment of the deferred life annuity is made to the Company on a form supplied by the Company on or after the date two (2) months prior to the former employee's normal retirement date and there is no liability for payment of interest or for delay in payment unless and until application has
25
been so made. The monthly amount of the deferred life annuity is the greater of the amount in (1) or (2) below:
(1) If the employee has been in the service of the Company for a continuous period of ten (10) years, or has been a member of the Pension Plan for such period, whichever first occurs, and who has attained age forty-five (45) , the sum of (a) and (b) below:
(a)	(i)	$36.70 multiplied by the number of years of credited
service if any, accumulated by the employee in respect of employment prior to the first day of January, 1965 if termination of service takes place on or after June 1, 1998, but prior to June 1, 1999 or
(ii)	$37.70 multiplied by the number of years of credited
service, if any, accumulated by the employee in respect of employment prior to the first day of January, 1965, if termination of service takes place on or after June 1, 1999 but prior to June 1, 2000, or
(iii)	$38.70 multiplied by the number of years of credited
service, if any, accumulated by the employee in respect of employment prior to the first day of January, 1965, if termination of service takes place on or after June 1, 2000, and
(b)	(i)	$40.00 multipli ed by the number of years of credited
service accumulated by the employee from and including the first day of January, 1965, to and including the date of termination of his/her service with the Company or of his/her membership in the Pension Plan, whichever is the case, if termination of service with the employer takes place on or after June 1, 1998, but prior to June 1, 1999, or
(ii) $41.00 multiplied by the number of years of credited service accumulated by the employee from and including the first day of January, 1965, to and including the date of termination of his/her service with the Company or of his/her membership in the Pension Plan, whichever is the case, if termination of service with the employer takes place on or after June 1, 1999, but prior to June 1, 2000, or
(iii)	$42.00 multiplied by the number of years of credited
service accumulated by the employee from and including the first day of January, 1965, to and including the date of termination of his/her service with the' Company or of his/her membership in the Pension Plan, whichever is the case, if termination of service with the employer takes place on or after June 1, 2000.
(2) (a) if the employee has completed two (2) years of credited service;
(i)	$40.00 multiplied by the number of years of credited
service accumulated by the employee from January 1, 1987 to and including the date of termination of his/her service with the Company or of his/her membership in the
26
Pension Plan, whichever is the case if termination of service with the employer takes place on or after June 1, 1998 but prior to June 1,1999, or
(ii)	$41.00 multiplied by the number of years of credited
service accumulated by the employee from January 1, 1987 to and including the date of termination of his/her service with the Company or of his/her membership in the Pension Plan, whichever is the case if termination of service with the employer takes place on or after June 1, 1999, but prior to June 1, 2000, or
(iii)	$42.00 multiplied by the number of years of credited
service accumulated by the employee from January 1, 1987 to and including the date of termination of his/her service with the Company or of his/her membership in the Pension Plan, whichever is the case if termination of service with the employer takes place on or after June 1, 2000; plus
(b) any increase in the basic amount of pension from that in effect at January 1, 1987, multiplied by the number of years of credited service accumulated by the employee prior to January 1, 1987.
When credited service under this Agreement differs with the Pension Benefits Act of Ontario, such act shall govern in (l)(b) of this Clause.
The deferred life annuity is for the employee's own use and benefit and does not confer upon the employee, any personal representative or dependent, or any other person, any right or interest in the deferred life annuity capable of being assigned or otherwise alienated. The deferred life annuity is not capable of surrender or commutation and does not confer upon the employee, any personal representative or dependent or any other person, any right or interest in the deferred life annuity capable of being surrendered or commuted.
7.08	Where an employee is entitled to a deferred life annuity pursuant to Clause 7.07:
(a)	The monthly amount, if any, of the payments of his/her deferred vested interest in the Pension Plan, computed in accordance with the provisions of Clause 1.09, of the Pension Plan Agreement is to be reduced by the monthly amount of the deferred life annuity, and
(b)	any option which s/he would otherwise have to waive his/her right to a
deferred vested interest in the Pension Plan and to receive a severance award pursuant to the Severance Award Agreement in lieu thereof is to be restricted to the ratio of the deferred vested interest that would have been provided for him/her but for the terms of the Clause 7.08 which:
(i)	$40.00 multiplied by the number of his/her years of credited
service, less the monthly amount of the deferred life annuity,
is of
$40.00 multiplied by the number of his/her years of credited service,
if termination of employment takes place on or after June 1, 1998, but prior to June 1, 1999; or
27
(ii)	$41.00 multiplied by the number of his/her years of credited service, less the monthly amount of the deferred life annuity,
is of
$41.00 multiplied by the number of his/her years of credited service,
if termination of employment takes place on or after June 1, 1999, but prior to June 1, 2000; or
(iii)	$42.00 multiplied by the number of his/her years of credit service, less the monthly amount of the deferred life annuity,
is of
$42.00 multiplied by the number of his/her years of credited service
if termination of employment with the employer takes place on or after June 1, 2000.
7.09	The Company undertakes to provide employees with a written explanation of the terms and conditions of the Pension Plan Agreement and of the rights and duties of such employees with reference to the benefits available to them under the terms of the Pension Plan Agreement, and any other information as is required under Applicable Pension Laws.
7.10	The provisions of this Article VII so far as they relate to the Pension Plan Agreement are and shall be deemed a part of the Pension Plan Agreement.
ARTICLE VXXI TERM OF AGREEMENT
8.01	As promptly as possible after execution of this Agreement by the Company, the Company shall submit it to the relevant government tax and other relevant authorities for the purpose of obtaining their approval of it. If on the effective date of the Pension Plan Agreement the Company has not all approvals which it may deem necessary to establish that it is entitled to deduct the amount of its contributions to the Pension Plan Agreement as an expense under the provisions of the Income Tax Act, or any other applicable tax laws, or to qualify under any other applicable law, as now in effect or as hereinafter amended or adopted, the Agreement shall not become effective.
If the requirements of such authorities shall necessitate any modification or changes herein, the Company will promptly notify the Union and the parties will meet within ten (10) days thereafter for the purpose of negotiating regarding such modifications or changes.
8.02	In the event of withdrawal of the approval, as defined in Clause 8.01 hereof, by the relevant government authorities at any time during the term of this Agreement, this Agreement shall terminate on the effective date of such withdrawal or upon the expiration of thirty (30) days after the Company shall first have been advised by such authorities of such withdrawal of approval whichever is later. During such thirty-day (30-day) period, the parties will meet for the purpose of negotiating any modifications or changes required in order to obtain such approval of such authorities; provided, however, that notwithstanding the other provisions of this Article until reinstatement of
28
such approval, the Company shall not be required to make any contributions to the Pension Fund which it is not entitled to deduct as an expense before taxes under the provisions of the Income Tax Act, and any other applicable tax laws now in effect or hereinafter amended or adopted.
8.03	If at any time during the term of this Agreement it shall be necessary or appropriate to make any revision of this Agreement in order to obtain or retain the approval, as defined in Clause 8.01 hereof, by the relevant authorities, the Company may make such revision retroactively or otherwise with the consent of the Union. The making of such revision shall be the subject of immediate negotiations between the Company and the Union and in such negotiations, the Company and the Union shall recognize that the Collective Agreement then in effect was executed in the expectation that the Pension Plan or one with substantially equivalent benefits would be and remain in effect during the term of this Agreement and of any renewal thereof theretofor made.
8.04 This Agreement may be appropriately modified or terminated in the event of the enactment of Federal, Provincial, or Municipal Governmental legislation affecting:
(a)	a contributory (Company or employee) pension plan applicable to
employees, or
(b)	a change, modification, or supplement to the statutory benefit that
results in a reduction of the aggregate of benefits to employees.
In the event of enactment of such legislation, should the parties be unable to agree upon appropriate modifications of this Agreement, either party may by thirty (30) days notice, effective no later than thirty (30) days after such legislation has been officially proclaimed, terminate this Agreement.
8.05	In the event of refusal by the relevant government authorities to approve this Pension Plan on or before three (3) months from date of ratification, or in the event of the government authorities refusing to approve the Pension Plan as defined in Clause 8.01 hereof, after such date, or of their withdrawal after such date of such approval thereof previously given, or in the event that this Agreement is terminated by either party pursuant to the provisions of Clause 8.04, either the Union or the Company may apply to the Ontario Labour Relations Board for permission to terminate any collective agreement then in effect and the other party shall join in such application. On termination, the provisions of the Collective Agreement shall continue to operate in the manner as provided in the Labour Relations Act of Ontario. If subsequent to notice of termination of such Collective Agreement or subsequent to termination of this Agreement, the parties settle any difference between them and this Agreement is reinstated, or Successor Agreement is made, then such Collective Agreement, if terminated, shall be reinstated to continue in full force until subsequently terminated according to its provisions as contained therein.
8.06	This Agreement constitutes a full settlement of all retirement and pension demands of the Union for its duration, and during the term hereof or of any renewal hereof, neither the Union nor its representatives shall:
(i) make any demand that this Agreement be changed in any respect or terminated or that a new pension plan be established for the employees or that the company contribute or pay any greater amount
29
for pensions for the employees than it is required to pay under the provisions of Clause 6.01 hereof, nor
(ii) engage in, or continue to engage in, or in any manner encourage or sanction any strike or other action which will interfere with work or production at the plants of the Company for the purpose of securing any such change, increase, or termination; and except during the last forty-five (45) days of the term of this Agreement or of any renewal thereof the Company shall not have any obligation to negotiate or bargain with the Union with respect to any of the matters referred to in (i) of this Clause.
8.07 Subject to the foregoing, this Agreement shall become effective on June 1, 1998 and shall remain in full force and effect until midnight May 31, 2001, and shall continue in effect thereafter from year to year for further periods of one year each unless either party shall have given written notice of termination or written notice of proposals for amendment to the other party prior to, but not more than ninety (90) days prior to, the expiration date or any yearly period thereafter. In the event of written notice of termination or proposals for amendment having been given by either party herein provided, negotiations shall be proceeded with during the notice period with a view to completing a new Agreement. Should such negotiations extend beyond the expiration date, this Agreement shall not expire, but shall continue in full force and effect in accordance with The Labour Relations Act of Ontario, or until a new agreement is entered into by the parties, whichever date shall occur first. In the event of termination of this Agreement by strike or lock-out, the benefits described therein shall be provided for ninety (90) days.
8.08	Any funds remaining after the satisfaction of all liabilities to employees, former employees, retirants and beneficiaries under the Plan may be returned to the Company.
Termination of this Agreement shall not have the effect of automatically discontinuing the pension plan insofar as it affects the pensions of those retiring before the termination date and no pension granted prior to such termination shall be reduced, suspended, or discontinued except as specifically provided in the Pension Plan.
LETTERS OF UNDERSTANDING - PENSION
During recent Contract Negotiations, the following Letters of Understanding were agreed upon by the parties:
1.	The Company agrees to furnish the Union with a copy of documents filed by the Company with the Pension Commission of Ontario and their response, including Annual Information Returns and Valuation Reports in respect of the Pension Plan and the Pension Fund.
2.	The Company agrees to facilitate the employees' funding of a pension differential relative to past service.
3.	A member of the Union will be appointed by the Union to represent the Union on the Pension Advisory Committee as an advisory member.
4.	In view of the Company's having increased the basic pension benefit above the $27.00 level as set out in Article I, Section 1.01(2)(a), the parties agree that the increase in liability applicable to past service
30
and the ongoing expense for future service generated by the aforementioned increase in benefit level will be funded by reduction of the COLA that might otherwise become payable.
It is further recognized that the COLA reduction (after due consideration for "roll-up") required to fund the aforementioned pension benefit increase is equivalent to $0.13 per member per hour (applicable to the past service liability) for the entire period June 1, 1992 through May 31, 1997 and an on-going, non-refundable amount of $0.04 per member per hour (applicable to the future service). It is further understood and agreed by the parties that no effort to negotiate any modification whatsoever to this funding arrangement will take place during future contract negotiations.
COLA reduction will commence immediately with the application of an Advance COLA in the amount of $0.17 as set out in Appendix B of the Collective Labour Agreement. To satisfy the requirement for funding of the past service liability by May 31, 1997, the COLA advance must be recovered no later than the adjustment scheduled for March 29, 1993. Should COLA fail to generate sufficient values to provide for full recovery by March 29, 1993, COLA recovery will be delayed and the past service liability may not be fully satisfied by May 31, 1997 in which case the parties agree that the provisions of this Letter of Understanding will continue to apply until such time as the full liability as outlined in paragraph one has been satisfied.
Once the aforementioned liability has been fully satisfied, the $0.13 carved out of COLA to satisfy the past service liability will be reinstated at the next available COLA adjustment date in accordance with the procedures outlined in Appendix B of the Collective Labour Agreement. It is expected that the $0.13 COLA carve-out will be reinstated with the adjustment scheduled for June of 1997.
5.	In view of the Company's having increased the basic pension benefit above the $33.00 level as set out in Article I, Section 1.01(2) (a), the parties agree that the increase in liability applicable to past service and the ongoing expense for future service generated by the aforementioned increase in benefit level will be funded by the permanent non-recoverable reduction of COLA of $.13 that otherwise would have become payable under letter 4 above.
31
AGREEMENT
Severance Award
This Agreement made and entered into this first day of June, 1998 by and between Uniroyal Goodrich Tire Manufacturing, Kitchener,Ontario, a Division of Michelin North America (Canada) Inc., hereinafter referred to as the "Company" and the United Steelworkers of America on behalf of Local 677, Kitchener, Ontario, Canada, hereinafter referred to as the "Union".
WITNESSETH THAT:
Subject to obtaining and retaining such acceptance of the Severance Award Agreement by such Commissions and other supervisory bodies as the Company may deem necessary and subject to obtaining and retaining such acceptance of the Severance Award Agreement by the relevant tax authorities as the Company may deem necessary to establish that the Company is entitled to deduct the amount of its payments pursuant to the Severance Award Agreement as an expense before taxes under the provisions of the Income Tax Act, and any other applicable tax laws, as now in effect or as hereafter amended or adopted, the Company agrees with the Union that the Company will:
a)	pay the severance awards provided for herein to those who become eligible therefor during the term of this Agreement.
No action taken in performance of the terms of this Agreement and consistent herewith is to be construed or interpreted as being a violation of any of the terms of any collective agreement between the Company and the Union.
As used in this Agreement,
a)	The term, "employment", means the status of a person who is employed by the Company in the bargaining unit hereinafter defined during all times s/he is enrolled on the factory payroll.
b)	The term "employee" means a person who is in employment or who, since s/he was last in employment, has retained his/her credited service under a Collective Agreement hereinafter defined.
c)	The term, "collective agreement" means the collective agreement between the Company and the Union dated June 1, 1998.
d)	The term, "bargaining unit" means the unit of employees defined in the collective agreement.
e)	The term "credited service" means the service of an employee which has been and remains credited to him/her, or would be credited to him/her if re-employed after lay off, in accordance with the provisions of Article II of this Agreement.
f)	The term "Pension Plan Agreement" means the Pension Plan Agreement in effect between the Company and the Union.
Wherever the masculine gender appears in this Agreement, it shall be construed as meaning male or female, unless the context in the Clause requires otherwise.
32
ARTICLE I
ADMINISTRATION
1.01	The Company shall have the sole responsibility and authority consistent with the provisions of this Agreement for the operation and administration of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II CREDITED SERVICE
2.01	An employee's credited service shall mean the period of time dating from an employee's company service date in effect as of June 1, 1998 as established by prior rules and policies, or as thereafter adjusted or determined by the service credit rules and other applicable provisions of the Collective Agreement dated June 1, 1998, but no credited service shall be accumulated while s/he was on Disability Retirement under the Pension Plan Agreement or any other Pension Plan of the Company. An employee granted a leave of absence or extension of same under the last paragraph of Clause
10.08	of the Collective Agreement of June 1, 1998 between the Union and the Company or any leave of absence or extension granted under subsequent Collective Agreements between the Union and the Company shall not accumulate credited service while on such leave. Credited service is to be computed to completed months for a fractional year.
2.02	The records of the Company shall be presumed to be conclusive of the facts concerning the credited service, employment, non-employment, or disability retirement of any employee or applicant for a severance award, unless shown beyond a reasonable doubt to be incorrect.
ARTICLE III SEVERANCE AWARDS
3.01
(1)	The Company will pay a severance award, from the general funds of the Company, to any employee who is released from employment on or after June 1,	1998 be cause s/he becomes physically or mentally unable to
perform the work of his/her classification or that of another classification to which s/he might be eligible for transfer or as a result of complete and permanent closure of all the Company's operations covered by this Agreement, provided that in any case s/he has five (5) or more years of credited service but is ineligible for any normal retirement, special early retirement, early retirement, legislated retirement, or disability retirement pension, or deferred vested pension under the Pension Plan. Such severance award is to be payable in a lump sum and is to be equal to the appropriate percentage on the following table applied to the annual average of the employee's total earnings from the Company during the lesser of his/her period of credited service or the last 120 months thereof multiplied by his/her total years and decimal-equivalent months of credited service:
33
Period of Credited Service Prior to Normal Retirement Date
Percentage
5 years but less than 10 years 10 years but less than 15 years 15 years but less than 20 years 20 years or more, and under Age 65 At normal Retirement Date 5 years or more
Notwithstanding the provisions of this Clause 3.01 (1), an employee eligible for a deferred vested pension under Clause 1.09 of the Kitchener Pension Agreement whose age and service are such that his/her rights on termination of employment are not locked-in, or are partially locked-in under Applicable Pension Laws may, in lieu of such deferred vested pension which is not locked-in, elect to receive a Severance Award. The Severance Award shall be reduced in respect of an employee whose rights are partially locked-in under Applicable Pension Laws; the reduction shall be the actuarial equivalent of the employee's deferred vested pension which is locked-in under Applicable Pension Laws.
(2)	In computing total earnings for the purpose of calculating any severance award, all earnings from the Company for the period of credited service shall be included. In addition, in the case of an employee who received no compensation from the Company during any period of authorized absence to perform services for the Union in an official or representative capacity while an officer of the Union, the compensation which s/he would have received from the Company had s/he been available for regular employment on his/her regular classification shall be included. Also, in the case of an employee whose credited service includes any period for which s/he was absent for service with the armed forces and received no compensation from the Company, which s/he would have received had s/he been available for regular employment during such period on his/her regular classification at the time s/he left shall be included. For whole and fractional years of credited service during which s/he was in employment prior to 1955, earnings for the year 1955 determined as aforesaid, increased proportionately to reflect a full year's earnings if no earnings have been included for one or more pay periods in 1955, shall be taken to be the rate of his/her earnings for all such whole and fractional years of credited service prior to 1955; but if any employee had no earnings for 1955 (either actual or included in accordance with the preceding sentences), his/her earnings for the next succeeding year in which s/he had earnings increased proportionately to reflect a full year 's earnings, if no earnings have been included for one or more pay periods in such year, shall be taken to be the rate of his/her earnings for all such whole and fractional years of credited service prior to 1955.
(3)	Absence of an employee from active employment at any time when s/he would otherwise be eligible for a Severance Award is not to preclude such severance award at such time provided such absence is due to disability or sick leave, lay-off, or other Company-approved leave of absence and provided the employee has retained his/her credited service under a Collective Agreement since s/he was last in employment.
2%
2*%
3%
4%
3%
34
ARTICLE IV
GENERAL PROVISIONS
4.01	The credited service of any employee who shall receive a severance award shall cease for the purpose of applying the provisions of any Collective Agreement which now is or hereafter shall be in effect between the Company and the Union.
4.02	If any dispute shall arise between the Company and any employee or applicant for a severance award who is represented by the Union, with reference to eligibility, age, credited service, or amount of severance award such dispute may be taken up as a grievance under the grievance provisions of the Collective Agreement then in effect, omitting however, all steps preceding presentation of the grievance to the Manager Industrial Relations of the Company. If any such grievance shall be taken to arbitration in accordance with such procedure, the arbitrator or Board of Arbitration, insofar as it shall be necessary to the determination of such grievance, shall have the authority only to interpret and apply the provisions of this Agreement and of the Collective Agreement.
S/he or it shall have no authority to add to or subtract from any provisions of this Agreement or to waive or fail to apply any deductions or any requirement of eligibility for benefit under this Agreement. The decision of the arbitrator or Board of Arbitration on any grievance properly referred shall be binding upon the Company, the Union, the employee, or applicant for severance award concerned therein.
ARTICLE V TERM OF AGREEMENT
5.01	As promptly as possible after execution of this Agreement by the Company, the Company shall submit it to the relevant government tax and other relevant authorities for the purpose of obtaining their approval of it. If on the effective date of the Severance Award Agreement the Company has not all approvals which it may deem necessary to establish that it is entitled to deduct the amount of its payments under the Severance Award Agreement as an expense under the provisions of the Income Tax Act, or any other applicable tax laws, or to qualify under any other applicable law, as now in effect or as hereafter amended or adopted, the Agreement shall not become effective. If the requirements of such authorities shall necessitate any modification or changes herein, the Company will promptly notify the Union and the parties will meet within ten (10) days thereafter for the purpose of negotiating regarding such modifications or changes.
5.02	In the event of withdrawal of the approval, as defined in Clause 5.01 hereof, by the relevant government authorities at any time during the term of this Agreement, this Agreement shall terminate on the effective date of such withdrawal or upon the expiration of thirty (30) days after the Company shall first have been advised by such authorities of such withdrawal of approval, whichever is later. During such thirty-day (30-day) period, the parties will meet for the purpose of negotiating any modifications or changes required in order to obtain such approval of such authorities; provided, however, that notwithstanding the other provisions of this Article until reinstatement of such approval, the Company shall not be required to make any payments under the Severance Award Agreement which it is not entitled to deduct as an
35
expense before taxes under the provisions of the Income Tax Act, and any other applicable tax laws as now in effect or hereafter amended or adopted.
5.03 If at any time during the term of this Agreement it shall be necessary or appropriate to make any revision of this Agreement in order to obtain or retain the approval, as defined in Clause 5.01 hereof, by the relevant authorities, the Company may make such revision retroactively or otherwise with the consent of the Union. The making of such revision shall be the subject of immediate negotiations between the Company and the Union and in such negotiations, the Company and the Union shall recognize that the Collective Agreement then in effect was executed in the expectation that the Severance award Agreement or one with substantially equivalent benefits would be and remain in effect during the term of this Agreement and of any renewal thereof theretofore made.
5.04 This Agreement may be appropriately modified or terminated in the event of the enactment of Federal, Provincial, or Municipal Governmental legislation effecting a change, modification, or supplement to the statutory benefit that results in a reduction of the aggregate of benefits to employees. In the event of enactment of such legislation, should the parties be unable to agree upon appropriate modifications of this Agreement, either party may by thirty days' notice, effective no later than thirty days after such legislation has been officially proclaimed, terminate this Agreement.
1. In the event of refusal by the relevant government authorities to approve this Severance Award Agreement on or before three months from date of ratification, or in the event of the government authorities refusing to approve the Severance Award Agreement as defined in Clause
5.01	hereof, after such date, or of their withdrawal after such date of such approval thereof previously given, or in the event that this Agreement is terminated by either party pursuant to the provisions of Clause 5.04 either the Union or the Company may apply to the Ontario Labour Board for permission to terminate any collective agreement then in effect and the other party shall join in such application. On termination the provisions of the Collective Agreement shall continue to operate in the manner as provided in the Labour Relations Act of Ontario. If subsequent to notice of termination of such Collective Agreement or subsequent to termination of this Agreement, the parties settle any difference between them and this Agreement is reinstated or a successor agreement is made, then such Collective Agreement if terminated, shall be reinstated to continue in full force until subsequently terminated according to its provisions as contained therein.
5.OS	This Agreement constitutes a full settlement of all severance pay demands of the Union for its duration, and during the term hereof or of any renewal hereof, neither the Union nor its representatives shall:
i)	make any demand that this Agreement be changed in any respect or terminated or that additional severance awards be established for the employees or that the Company contribute or pay any greater amount for severance awards for the employees than it is required to pay under the provisions of Clause 3.01 hereof, nor
ii)	engage in, or continue to engage in, or in any manner encourage or sanction any strike or other action which will interfere with work or production at the plants of the Company for the purpose of securing any such change, increase, or termination; and except during the last forty-
36
five (45) days of the term of this Agreement or of any renewal thereof the Company shall not have any obligation to negotiate or bargain with the Union with respect to any of the matters referred to in (i) of this Clause.
5.07 Subject to the foregoing, this Agreement shall become effective on June 1st, 1998 and shall remain in full force and effect until midnight May 31, 2001, and shall continue in effect thereafter from year to year for further periods of one year each unless either party shall have given written notice of termination or written notice of proposals for amendment to the other party prior to, but not more than ninety (90) days prior to, the expiration date or any yearly period thereafter. In the event of written notice of termination or proposals for amendment having been given by either party herein provided, negotiations shall be proceeded with during the notice period with a view to completing a new Agreement. Should such negotiations extend beyond the expiration date, this Agreement shall not expire, but shall continue in full force and effect in accordance with The Labour Relations Act of Ontario, or until a new agreement is entered into by the parties, whichever date shall occur first. In the event of termination of this Agreement by strike or lock-out, the benefits described therein shall be provided for ninety (90) days.
37
AGREEMENT
Insurance Program
This Agreement made and entered into this 1st day of June, 1998 by and between Uniroyal Goodrich Tire Manufacturing, Kitchener, Ontario, a Division of Michelin North America (Canda) Inc., hereinafter referred to as the "Company" and the United Steelworkers of America on behalf of Local 677 Kitchener, Ontario, Canada, hereinafter referred to as the "Union".
WITNESSETH THAT:
Subject to like approvals (if, and to the extent deemed necessary by the Company) required pursuant to the preamble of the agreements known as the "Pension Plan Agreement" and "Severance Award Agreement" made and entered into on the 1st day of June, 1998, between the parties hereto, and subject to the terms and conditions hereinafter stated, the Company will provide Life Insurance, Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance, Sickness and Accident Benefits, Hospital Expense Benefits, Surgical Benefits, Medical Benefits, effective as of June 1st, 1998, described generally as follows:
ARTICLE I DEFINITIONS
1.01	In this Agreement
a)	"employee" means and includes each and every hourly-rated and incentive employee in the occupational classifications represented by the Union as set forth in Article II, Subsection 2.01 of the Collective Agreement between the Company and the Union, dated June 1st, 1998.
b)	"dependent" means and includes a person not in the employ of the Company who is:
i)	the legal spouse or common-law spouse, but only if the common-law spouse is of the opposite sex and has been publicly represented as the spouse and has co-habited with the employee for a period of not less than one (1) year.
Only one spouse at a time may be claimed.
ii)	the unmarried children from birth to the 21st birthday. The words "child" o r "children" mean the employee's natural children, adopted children, step-children, foster children, or other children who depend on the employee for support and live with the employee in a parent-child relationship. Fully employed children are not considered as dependents under this definition.
iii)	the unmarried children of 21 years or more of age who are
dependent on the employee for support and maintenance and who are mentally or physically incapable of self support (or full time students up to the age of 25 years) will be eligible for the benefits provided under Article V and Article VI of this Agreement and the Mutual Dental Care Plan.
38
Fully employed children are not considered as dependents under this definition. To be eligible for this benefit, such children must have been continuously covered as dependents prior to obtaining age 21.
All of the above are subject to the conditions and limitations pertaining to dependents set forth in this Agreement.
c)	The term "physician" means a medical practitioner who is a duly licensed member of the College of Physicians and Surgeons of Ontario or such similar statute or law as governs the practice of medicine in the jurisdiction in which any medical, surgical, or diagnostic services are rendered to an employee or his/her dependent.
d)	The term "Loss of Use" means the total and irrecoverable loss of use, provided the loss is continuous for 12 consecutive months and such loss of use is determined to be permanent.
Wherever the masculine gender appears in this Agreement, it shall be construed as meaning male or female, unless the context in the clause requires otherwise.
1.02	An employee will be considered to be single and without dependents until s/he has properly enrolled his/her dependents, in accordance with the company 1 s rules, on the application forms applicable to the specific dependent benefits, and s/he may be required to furnish such proof as the Company may reasonably require to establish the eligibility of any person claimed as a dependent. S/he must further inform the Company of any changes in the status of his/her dependents which would affect their eligibility under the Plan within thirty-one (31) days after such change occurs.
ARTICLE II
GROUP LIFE INSURANCE FOR EMPLOYEES
2.01	The Company will provide for an eligible employee, without cost to the employee, Non-Contributory Group Life Insurance Benefits, in the amount of $35,000 which will provide for the payment of a death benefit under the terms and conditions ordinarily found in a Standard Group Life Insurance Policy issued in the Province of Ontario. The employee will designate a beneficiary on a form provided by the Company.
2.02	The Non-Contributory Group Life Insurance (but not the Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance) of an employee provided herein shall be continued in force in the amount of $10,000 for an employee who retires and becomes eligible for a monthly retirement pension (other than for reasons of disability or a Legislated Retirement Pension and other than deferred vested interest or deferred life annuity payment) under the Pension Plan Agreement at no cost to the employee.
2.03	If an employee for whom insurance coverage is provided in accordance with the provisions of this program is eligible to receive a disability pension under the terms of the Pension Plan Agreement, s/he shall continue to be insured for the full amount of his/her Non-Contributory Life Insurance (but not his/her Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance) at no cost to him/her and until the period of his/her permanent incapacity ceases or until his/her normal retirement date, whichever occurs first. The insurance for such employee who continues to be permanently and totally disabled or
39
occupationally disabled on his/her normal retirement date shall on such date be continued in an amount specified in Clause 2.02.
2.04	The Company will provide Group Life Insurance (but not Group Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance) for each employee who is entitled to receive a Severance Award as provided in Clause 3.01(1) of Article III of the Severance Award Agreement at no cost to him/her in the amount of one thousand dollars ($1,000) .
2.05	The policy of group Life Insurance shall provide that a person within thirty-one (31) days after his/her Life Insurance ceases because of termination of employment shall have the privilege of obtaining without medical examination, an individual policy of Life Insurance of a class and under the conditions specified by the Insurer in the individual's certificate of insurance, and that should death occur during this thirty-one (31) day conversion period, a death claim will be paid.
This right of conversion extends as well to the amount of Life Insurance discontinued upon termination of service because of regularly authorized retirement or payment of a severance award.
2.06	If an employee becomes permanently and totally disabled or occupationally disabled and will thereafter during life be unable to engage in any occupation or employment for wage or profit:
i) before attaining age sixty (60) years,
ii) after having been insured under the life insurance plan for at least one year, and
iii)	prior to completion of 10 years' credited service,
the Company will cause the insurer upon proof thereunder, to the satisfaction of the insurer, to pay such employee the amount of Non-Contributory Life Insurance (but not Non-Occupational Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance) in force upon such life at the time such disability commenced, in instalments as the Company may direct. Such settlement shall be accepted in lieu of all other Life Insurance Benefits provided for on the life of such person under the Plan.
2.07	Optional Contributory Group Life Insurance Program
While eligible for Non-Contributory Group Life Insurance as outlined in Section 2.01, an employee, upon providing evidence of insurability acceptable to the carrier, may elect to purchase additional Contributory Employee Group Life Insurance in the amount of $10,000 at a weekly premium based on age, sex, and whether the employee is a smoker or a non-smoker as effective from time to time. A separate beneficiary designation will be completed for the Contributory Group Life Insurance coverage.
While eligible for Non-Contributory Group Life Insurance as outlined, an employee, upon providing evidence of his/her spouse's insurability acceptable to the carrier, may elect to purchase Contributory Spousal Group Life Insurance in the amount of $10,000 at a weekly premium based on the spouse's age, sex, and whether the spouse is a smoker or a non-smoker as effective from time to time. The spouse must designate the employee as beneficiary on a form provided by the Company. While eligible for Non-Contributory Group Life Insurance as outlined, an employee may elect to purchase Contributory
40
Children's Group Life Insurance in the amount of $5,000 for each wholly dependent child under the age of 21 at a weekly premium as effective from time regardless of number of children covered). The employee must be the designated beneficiary of the child/children.
An employee who retires and is eligible under the provisions of Section 2.02 as a retiree for the continuation of a reduced amount of Non-Contributory Group Life Insurance, may continue to carry his/her Contributory Employee Group Life Insurance (but not his/her Contributory Spousal or Children's Group Life Insurance) up to December 31 in the year in which s/he attains age 64.	For the purpose of determining monthly deductions, the applicable
weekly premium level as effective from time to time will be adjusted to a monthly equivalent.
The following guidelines will govern the administration of the Optional Contributory Group Life Insurance Program:
a)	For the purpose of determining weekly deductions, a non-smoker is someone who has not smoked tobacco products for at least 12 months. If originally insured as a smoker, new evidence of insurability must be presented (at the annual July review and re-enrolment set out in (d) below) and accepted by the insurer before any reduction in future premiums will be recognized. For the purpose of determining weekly deductions, premiums will be calculated each January based on age projected to December 31 of the same year.
b)	If, in any week, a participating employee does not generate sufficient pay to enable the deduction of premiums, the retroactive premiums will be deducted, in full, at the earliest opportunity.
c)	If a participating employee is absent from work in accordance with Article VII, Section 8.05 (first paragraph) or Section 8.09(b) of this Insurance Agreement, s/he may continue his/her Contributory Employee, Spousal, and/or Children's Group Life Insurance by prepayment of the full amount of the required premiums for the period covered under Section 8.05 (first paragraph) or Section 8.09(b) provided that such period will not extend coverage beyond the period for which the employee, spouse or child would normally be eligible for coverage.
d)	The level of participation in the Contributory Program will be reviewed annually each July. Non-participating employees will be allowed to apply for coverage and current participants allowed to drop or amend existing coverage at that time. The Company may discontinue the Contributory Group Life Insurance Program if the results of the annual review indicate that fewer than 25% of the active employees are participating in the program.
e)	The conversion privilege as outlined in Section 2.05 shall apply to Contributory Employee and Contributory Spousal Group Life Insurance (but not Contributory Children's Group Life Insurance) which ceases because of termination of employment, retirement, or attainment of age 65. This conversion privilege will also apply should the Contributory Group Life Insurance Program be discontinued because of lack of required employee participation levels.
41
ARTICLE III
GROUP ACCIDENTAL DEATH AND DISMEMBERMENT INSURANCE FOR EMPLOYEES
3.01	The Company will provide for eligible employees without cost to them, Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance in the amount of $35,000.
3.02	Benefits will be paid for accidental loss of life, loss of use of limbs, and sight caused by external, violent, and accidental means. The full principal sum to which an employee is entitled will be paid for the accidental loss of use of two hands or feet, or sight of eyes, or any two of them. One half the principal sum will be paid for the accidental loss of use of one hand, one foot, or the sight of one eye. Provided, however, that the full amount will be paid only once to or on account of any employee.
3.03	Survivor Income Benefit
The Company will provide a Survivor Income Benefit Program which will provide a benefit of $350. per month ($6,300 in total) for a 18 month period following the death of the employee effective from the first day of the month following the month in which death occurs and payable on the last day of the month in which the benefit becomes effective to the beneficiary designated by the employee on a form provided by the Company. If no beneficiary designation is on file at time of death, the benefit will be payable to the estate of the deceased employee. Alternatively, when the benefit becomes payable, the beneficiary or the estate will have the option of receiving payment in an actuarially equivalent lump sum rather than the aforementioned 18 monthly instalments.
ARTICLE IV
NON-OCCUPATIONAL GROUP SICKNESS AND ACCIDENT
4.01	The Company will provide for its eligible employees, without cost to them, sickness and accident insurance benefits for bodily injuries caused by non-occupational accidents, incapacitating surgery verified by a physician, or sickness which totally and continuously disable such employees from working in accordance with the following schedule:
66 2/3% of the employee's average insurable earnings over the last twenty (20) weeks of insurable employment (as used by the Human Resources Development Canada) or at the rate of 66 2/3% of the employee's average hourly earnings times forty (40) hours, whichever is the greater, to a maximum of the applicable Employement Insurance maximum per week, with a minimum of $100.00 per week.
Should the earnings index under the Employment Insurance Act change the criteria for maximum benefits, the Company may elect to adjust the maximum weekly benefit to the current level to the extent of maintaining the minimum qualification requirements of the Weekly Indemnity Plan for premium reductions under the Employment Insurance Act.
In consideration of the improved weekly indemnity benefits, the Union and the employees agree that the entire amount of rebate due to any reduced Employment Insurance premiums, if the plan is approved, shall be retained by the Company.
42
4.02	Benefits will be payable from the third continuous day of a disability due to an accident, incapacitating surgery, confinement in a hospital or sickness verified by a physician. Benefits will continue to be paid for the duration of the disability not to exceed fifty-two (52) weeks for each period of disability.
4.03	Periods of disability due to the same cause will be treated as the same period of disability unless the employee has recovered and returned to fulltime work for a period of two consecutive weeks. Periods of disability due to different causes will be treated as different periods of disability if separated by recovery and return to full-time work.
4.04	The date on which the disability begins shall be deemed to be the first day upon which the employee fails to report to the Company for work after seeing attending physician, or is required to cease work before his/her regular quitting time (for employees on 8 hour schedule, 5 hours or LESS worked or paid for; and for employees on 12 hour schedule, 7.5 hours or LESS worked or paid for), and the date upon which the disability terminates shall be deemed to be the day before the first day on which the employee is capable of returning to work. This date shall be that set by the attending physician. Part and full weeks shall be indemnified at the rate of one-fifth of the weekly amount for each normal working day of disability to a maximum of six (6) working shifts in any normal work week for employees on 8 hour schedule and at the rate of one-seventh of an equivalent biweekly amount for each day of disability to a maximum of seven working shifts in any two week period for employees on 12 hour schedule.
4.05	Weekly indemnity benefits shall not be payable for any disability:
a)	resulting from any injury or sickness for which the employee is not under the care of a physician, Doctor of Dental Surgery (D.D.S.), Doctor of Osteopathy (D.O.), Chiropractor, Chiropodist, or Podiatrist.
b)	resulting from any injury, sickness, or disease which entitles the employee concerned to compensation in respect thereof under the Workplace Safety and Insurance Board, Ontario, or under any legislation relating to compensation for injuries, sickness, or disease, arising in the course of employment.
c)	resulting from injury sustained or sickness contracted as a direct or indirect result of war or engaging in a riot.
d)	caused by alcoholism or addiction to drugs unless receiving continuing treatment under the care and supervision of a licensed physician.
e)	for any disability commencing or continuing while the employee is on a leave of absence as per Clauses 10.05, 10.08 last paragraph, and 10.11, of the Collective Agreement, until the expiration of such leave of absence.
4.06	Benefits shall not be payable for any day for which an employee is eligible for Holiday Pay, except as provided in Clause 6.10 - 2 of the Collective Agreement.
4.07	Employees regularly working on a part-time basis whose scheduled week is less than the normal work week, shall receive reduced Sickness and Accident Benefits based upon the proportion which their work week bears to the normal
43
work week. This does not include employees who are temporarily working less than normal hours because of a curtailment in production.
ARTICLE V
ONTARIO HEALTH INSURANCE PLAN (OHIP)
FOR EMPLOYEES AND DEPENDENTS
5.01	The Company will pay, to the appropriate regulatory body, all required provincial health insurance taxes and/or premiums so as to qualify the employee and his/her dependents for the hospital and medical benefits provided by the Health Insurance Act of Ontario. The amount of the taxes, including the earnings base and the percentage to be used in the calculation, the due date for payment, and the benefits provided shall be as prescribed by the aforementioned Act and/or the Regulations of the Ontario Health Insurance Plan and any subsequent amendments to the Act and/or the Regulations thereto.
Insomuch as the benefits provided under the aforesaid Act and/or the Regulations thereto are not directly related to the payment of the required taxes, the eligibility provisions of Article VIII shall, with respect to the foregoing benefits only, be understood to define the period for which the Company is obliged to pay the required taxes and the Company's obligation to provide such benefits as are provided under the Act and/or the Regulations and any subsequent amendments, during the specified period of eligibility, will be fully discharged by the forwarding of the required taxes to the appropriate regulatory body.
ARTICLE VI
NON-OCCUPATIONAL SUPPLEMENTARY HEALTH AND HOSPITALIZATION BENEFITS FOR EMPLOYEES AND DEPENDENTS
6.01	The Company will provide for reasonable and customary charges for the following services or equipment required by the employee or eligible dependent of the employee when prescribed in writing by the patient's physician:
a)	hospital out-patient services and diagnostic laboratory and X-ray examinations not covered by a provincial hospital or medical insurance plan or any other hospital plan;
b)	1. Services of a qualified Physiotherapist,	provided such
Physiotherapist is not ordinarily resident in the patient's home and is not a relative of the patient;
2. Services rendered in the patient's home by a Registered Nurse, provided such Registered Nurse is not ordinarily resident in the patient's home and is not a relative of the patient and subject to maximum total eligible expenses in a calendar year of $25,000 less the amount paid under this provision for Registered Nurses services during the two preceding calendar years plus one hundred dollars ($100) per day thereafter;
c)	rental/purchase at discretion of the Company of wheel chair, hospital bed, crutches, braces, trusses, canes, iron lung or oxygen set and other durable equipment which is required for therapeutic use;
44
d)	artificial limbs, or eyes, or other prosthetic appliances where the disability causing loss of the natural member is incurred while insured. Mastectomy bras, limited to two in any twelve month period;
e)	drugs which require the written prescription of a physician or are life sustaining (including insulin and syringes) and are dispensed by a physician or pharmacist;
f)	ambulance services including any conveyance which is officially designated as an ambulance in any emergency;
g)	treatment by radium or radioactive isotopes;
h)	blood transfusions, surgical dressings or bandages;
i)	room and board in a licensed private hospital, other than a home for the aged, which is under the supervision of a registered nurse or physician up to $10.00 per day for a maximum of 120 days during the lifetime of the insured individual;
j)	reimbursement for eyeglasses, up to a total amount of $150.00 per person in any period of 24 consecutive months, when purchased on the written prescription of a medical doctor or optometrist, excluding sunglasses, glasses for cosmetic purposes and safety glasses except where such safety glasses require prescription lenses and the Company approves their purchase;
k)	hearing aids to a maximum of $500.00 in any period of 36 consecutive months per person - including repairs and batteries;
l)	services of a qualified and registered clinical psychologist in good standing up to $40.00 per hour to a maximum of $400.00 during any period of 12 consecutive months;
m)	services of a registered masseur up to a maximum of $180.00 during any 12 consecutive months;
n)	services of a regularly qualified speech therapist up to $60.00 per hour to a maximum of $300.00 during any period of 12 consecutive months;
o)	emergency/necessary services of a duly licensed medical practitioner rendered while the employee or dependent is travelling or resident outside the Province of Ontario, payment to be limited to the amount of the charge which is in excess of the Ontario Medical Association Schedule of Fees and up to the amount which would be reasonably considered for payment in the area where the expense is incurred;
when an eligible active employee or eligible retiree returns to Ontario, reimbursement for Blue Cross Traveller's Insurance (or similar) will be provided to the maximum of $1.50 per day for a single traveller or $3.00 per day for a family multiplied by the number of days reflected in the official receipt/proof of purchase from the carrier which must be provided to the Company to substantiate the claim;
p)	Orthopaedic shoes which are part of a brace or are specially constructed for the patient, including modifications to these when prescribed by a physician or a podiatrist.
45
6.02	Co-ordination of Benefits
Allowable expenses incurred by the employee or his/her eligible dependent(s) may be claimed through this Plan, but only for that portion of the expense not paid through any other insurance plan.
6.03	Supplementary Hospital Expense Benefit
In addition to making the premium payments as defined in Clause 5.01, the Company will provide supplementary hospital expense benefits as follows:
a)	For semi-private and private room accommodations, reimbursement will be made for the difference between the daily standard ward rate and the daily semi-private room rate established for that hospital by the Health Insurance Act of Ontario and charged for room and board to an eligible employee and/or his/her dependents. In the event that the Ontario Health Insurance Plan does not set such differential, notwithstanding that the hospital involved is in fact a licensed hospital, reimbursement will be made for the difference in cost between the daily standard ward rate and the daily semi-private rate for room and board in that hospital. The period for which this benefit will be paid is up to a maximum of three hundred and sixty-five (365) days for all confinements for each eligible employee and each eligible dependent. However, the additional benefit of up to three hundred and sixty-five (365) days will be available when confinements are separated by a period of at least ninety (90) consecutive days.
b)	Special Hospital Services
Reimbursement will be made for the charges for miscellaneous services rendered by the hospital and incurred by the eligible employee or his/her dependent during the period for which a benefit under 6.03(a) above is payable, including the administration of blood and blood plasma, provided, however, that special hospital services shall not include:
i)	the services of any physician, surgeon, anaesthetist, special
nurse, and charges for the nurse's board.
ii)	any charges for diagnostic X-rays, therapy, electro-therapy, radium therapy, shock treatments, blood and blood plasma.
iii)	the services of a hairdresser, barber, telephone charges, and any other personal expense.
iv)	charges for miscellaneous services rendered by the hospital and provided for under the basic standard ward hospital benefits.
In the case of sickness, eligibility for benefits under this Section requires Hospital confinement for a minimum of eighteen (18) hours or that the hospital makes a charge for room and board. No minimum period of confinement is required for emergency care following an accident or where surgery is performed.
6.04	An eligible employee or dependent is not entitled to benefits for hospital room and services in the following circumstances:
46
i) for treatment for accident or disease for which payment is provided under Workers' Compensation Laws or other statutes.
ii)	for treatment for accident or disease for which payment is provided under the regulations of the Department of Veterans' Affairs.
iii)	for rest cures.
6.05	Maternity Benefits for Eligible Female Employees or Dependents of Eligible Employees:
A Hospital Expense Benefit will be paid for any pregnancy while a female employee or dependent of an employee is insured under the Plan. For any such pregnancy, the hospital expense benefit will be only the same Supplementary Hospital Expense as would be paid for non-maternity confinement.
ARTICLE VII
HOSPITAL, SURGICAL, AND HOSPITAL MEDICAL EXPENSE INSURANCE BENEFITS FOR retired employees and dependents
7.01	Employees who were eligible for a monthly retirement pension (but not a Legislated Retirement Pension or a deferred vested interest or deferred life annuity) or a monthly disability pension and employees whose employment was terminated at age sixty-five (65) and who were eligible for a Severance Award pursuant to the provisions of the Pension Plan Agreement and Severance Award Agreement and who were retired by the Company prior to June 1st, 1998 will be entitled to the benefits as specified in Clause 7.02 in accordance with the agreement dated June 1, 1995 to May 31, 1998 and will also be subject to the same qualifications and conditions as specified in this same Clause 7.02.
7.02	Employees eligible for a monthly retirement pension (but not a Legislated Retirement Pension or a deferred vested interest or deferred life annuity) or a monthly disability pension and employees whose employment is terminated at age 65 and who are eligible for a Severance Award pursuant to the provisions of the Pension Plan Agreement and Severance Award Agreement will be provided with the following benefits in effect when such retirement income becomes effective:
a)	The Basic Hospital Benefit provided for an employee under Clause 5.01 of this Agreement.
b)	The Supplementary Hospital Expense Benefit provided for an employee under Clauses 6.03 and 6.04.
c)	The Non-Occupational Group Health Insurance Benefits provided for an employee under Clause 5.01.
d)	Non-Occupational Extended Health Expense Benefits provided for an employee under Clause 6.01.
e)	Only those eligible dependents on record with the Company at retirement will be covered. In the event that a dependent is acquired after retirement by a retirant on whose behalf the Company is remitting premiums to the Ontario Health Insurance Plan at the individual rate, the Company will remit premiums on such retirant:'s behalf at the family rate provided such retirant continues to reimburse the Company in
47
advance monthly for the difference between the family rate and the rate for individual coverage to which he or she is entitled as a retired employee under this Agreement.
f)	In the event of termination of the Plan under the provisions of this Agreement, all insurance under the Plan will terminate at the end of the month in which such termination occurs.
g)	Dependents of an employee shall cease to be eligible for benefits under this Plan on the date on which the employee ceases to be eligible, and in the case of death of an employee, at the end of the month in which said death occurs.
7.03	It is agreed that should any legislation come into effect which would provide any or all of these benefits, the Company's obligation will be reduced to the portion of benefits not affected by the Legislation and the Company will not be responsible for any rebate payments to the pensioners.
ARTICLE VIII ELIGIBILITY FOR BENEFITS
The following regulations will determine the eligibility of present and future employees to participate in the benefits provided in this Program, as set out above.
8.01	All present employees who are actively at work on the effective date of this Agreement and who have three (3) or more months of service credit at such time, shall be entitled to the increased benefits of the program, covering death, bodily injury, or sickness suffered or incurred on or after the effective date of this Agreement. Present employees who are on vacation or who are working less than their standard shift shall be deemed to be included. Present employees not actively at work on the above date, for any other reason will become eligible upon return to active employment.
8.02	An employee attaining three (3) months credited service after the effective date of this Agreement shall be entitled to the benefits of the program covering death, bodily injury, or sickness suffered or incurred on or after the first day following the attainment of three (3) months credited service, provided such employee is actively employed on such date. If the employee is not actively at work on such date, s/he will be eligible upon return to active employment.
8.03	Coverage for an employee's dependents, will become effective on the same date as the employee's coverage except that if a dependent other than a newborn baby is confined in a hospital when the insurance for that dependent would otherwise become effective, the insurance will become effective upon final discharge from the hospital. The newborn baby will become immediately eligible as a dependent provided that the employee properly qualifies such child hereunder by registering such child with the company within thirty-one (31) days of its birth.
8.04	An employee, who had previously been eligible under the Program, and who returns to active employment after layoff or leave of absence, shall be eligible for all benefits for himself and dependents on the first day of his/her return to active employment.
48
8.05	An employee who is granted a leave of absence from work because of bodily injury or sickness after becoming eligible under the program, shall continue to be eligible for all benefits for himself and dependents, except sickness and accident benefits for employees for the period of his/her approved leave of absence or eighteen (18) months, whichever first occurs.
The Company will make available to employees whose benefits expire pursuant to this Clause, the opportunity to continue the life insurance, but not the Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance in the amount equal to the total life insurance that was in effect for such employee immediately preceding the effective date of his/her leave of absence by contributing at the rate of sixty cents (60<0 per month per one thousand dollars ($1,000) of insurance.
Provided, however, such employee 1 s opportunity to continue such life insurance and to maintain it in effect shall not extend beyond the period specified in the following schedule:
Credited Service at Date of
First Leave of Absence	Period of Coverage
Less than ten (10) years	Six (6) months
Ten (10) years and over	Eighteen (18) months
8.06	An employee granted Pregnancy or Parental Leave (as described in 10.11 of the Collective Labour Agreement) who fails to present him/herself for work at the agreed upon expiration of such Pregnancy and/or Parental Leave shall cease to be covered under all benefits of the Program upon the agreed upon expiration date of such Leave.
This does not prevent an employee from applying for a Leave of Absence under
10.06	of the Collective Labour Agreement and thereby continuing coverage for any applicable benefits.
8.07	An employee who is granted leave of absence for any reason other than sickness or injury, after becoming eligible under the Program, shall continue to be eligible for all benefits for him/her self and dependents, except Sickness and Accident benefits for the employee, until the expiration of three (3) months from the effective date of such leave, provided, however, local union officers on approved leave of absence for union business shall continue to be covered for sickness and accident benefits during such leave of absence.
8.08	An employee whose active employment is terminated by voluntary separation, by discharge for cause or by entering military service, shall cease to be eligible for any benefits under this Program as of the date of termination, except that a death claim would be paid under the Life Insurance Plan during the thirty-one (31) day conversion period.
8.09
a) An employee who is laid off shall cease to be eligible for Sickness and Accident benefits as of the day following layoff and for all other benefits under this Program at the end of the calendar month following the month during which such layoff occurs, except that maternity benefits will be paid for pregnancies commencing while a female employee or a wife of an employee is insured under the Program.
49
b) However, if at the time of layoff, the employee is eligible for and continues to receive Supplemental Unemployment Benefits, coverage for all benefits, (except Sickness and Accident Benefits) will be continued up to a maximum period ceasing at the end of the sixth month following the month in which such layoff occurs.
Each such employee in (a) and (b) above will have the privilege of continuing all benefits (except Sickness and Accident Benefits and Basic Hospital Benefits and Non-Occupational Medical Expense benefits) for a period of twelve (12) months from the date his/her coverage would otherwise have been discontinued by payment of the premium applicable to the remaining benefits. Such premium shall be payable monthly in advance to the Company.
The policy of group Life Insurance shall also apply, as provided in Clause 2.05, in this Clause 8.09.
8.10	Subject to the provisions of Clause 2.03, eligibility for any benefits under this Program will terminate automatically upon termination of employment, except that a death claim would be paid under the Life Insurance Plan during the thirty-one (31) day conversion period. Provided, however, that in the event of termination of group Hospital Expense and/or Sickness and Accident Insurance as provided in this Agreement, such termination shall not have the effect of discontinuing the payment of benefits insofar as it affects the benefits payable with respect to disabilities which were suffered or incurred prior to the date of termination.
8.11	Dependents of an employee or of a retirant shall cease to be eligible for benefits under this Plan on the date on which the employee or the retirant ceases to be eligible and, in the case of death of an employee or a retirant, at the end of the month in which said death occurs. If the spouse of a deceased employee is eligible for a Survivor Income Benefit or if the widow of a retirant is eligible for a Term Certain Pension, said spouse or widow may continue coverage for the benefits for which the employee or retirant was eligible at the time of his/her death, except Weekly Indemnity, Accidental Death and Dismemberment, Life Insurance, Ontario Health Insurance Plan benefits per Clause 5.01, by payment of the premium applicable to the remaining benefits. This privilege will cease upon remarriage or death of the spouse.
8.12	When provision is made for continuance of coverage on payment of the applicable premium by any person other than the Company, such payment shall be made monthly, in advance, and will be the responsibility of the individual concerned. This privilege will terminate on failure to pay the premiums as provided.
ARTICLE IX GENERAL PROVISIONS
9.01	The Company shall have the sole responsibility and authority consistent with the provisions of this Agreement for the operations and administration of the Program.
9.02	The Company may enter into a contract or contracts with an insurer or insurers to provide all or any of the benefits described herein, and upon so doing, the Company shall be relieved of any liability to any employee or dependent with respect to performance of the obligations contracted for by
50
the insurer; and the Company may from time to time, amend, terminate, reinstate, and/or substitute any such contract or contracts. No Insurance Company contract which may be entered into by the Company for the purpose of providing any benefit described in this Agreement shall alter, amend, or detract from the provisions of this Agreement.
9.03	The employee shall complete any application or questionnaire relating to himself/herself and to the number, sex, and age of his/her dependents or the facts pertaining to a claim for benefits presented to him/her by an insurer through the Company or otherwise.
9.04	No payment of claim will be made if the employee fails to meet the requirements of the insurer with respect to proof and time limitations under regulations normally included in policies written in Ontario as follows:
a)	Weekly Indemnity Benefits - 3 months from date of disability
b)	Supplementary Health/Hospitalization Benefits - 18 months from date expense is incurred
c)	Group Life Insurance Benefits - 6 years from date of death
d)	Group Accidental Death & Dismemberment Benefits - 6 years from date of death or 3 months from date of loss.
9.05	The insurer shall issue or cause to be issued a certificate to each employee eligible for benefits which will describe the benefits and privileges provided hereunder by said insurer.
9.06	The Company shall have the right, and an employee claiming payment of disability shall afford an opportunity to examination of the person of the employee or his/her dependent, by a physician appointed by it, when and as often as it may reasonably require while a claim for benefit is pending.
9.07 If a dispute shall arise between the Company and an employee as to whether such employee or his/her dependents is or continues to be suffering from bodily injury or sickness of degree, extent, and type that gives rise to a claim for benefits under the Program, such dispute shall be resolved as follows:
The employee or disabled person shall be examined by a physician appointed for that purpose by the Company and by a physician appointed for that purpose by the Union. If they shall disagree concerning the kind and nature of the disability, the question shall be submitted to a third physician selected by the said two physicians. The opinion of the third physician after examination of the disabled person and consultation with the other two physicians, shall be accepted by the Company, the Union and the employee as irrebuttable evidence of the facts therein disclosed, and the degree, extent and type of disability suffered by the disabled person. The fees and expenses of the third physician shall be shared equally by the Company and the Union.
9.08	If a dispute shall arise between the Company and an employee with reference to eligibility for benefits or payment of claims under the Program, or if a dispute shall arise between the Company and the Union as to whether the Company has provided and continues to provide benefits as hereinbefore described, such dispute may be taken as a grievance under the grievance provisions of the Collective Agreement then in effect, omitting, however, all
51
steps preceding presentation of the grievance to the Manager Industrial Relations of the Company.
If any such grievance shall be taken to arbitration in accordance with such procedure, the arbitrator or board of arbitration, insofar as it may be necessary to the determination of such grievance, shall have authority only to interpret and apply the provisions of this Agreement and of the Collective Agreement. S/he or it shall have no authority to add to or subtract from any provision of this Agreement or to waive or fail to apply any requirement of eligibility for benefit under the Agreement. The decision of the arbitrator or board of arbitration on any grievance properly referred shall be binding upon the Company, the Union, and the employee.
9.09	The establishment of the Program shall not give any employee any additional right to be retained in the employment of the Company; and each employee shall remain subject to discipline, discharge, or layoff to the same extent as if such Program had not been put into effect.
9.10	Where an employee receives Sickness and Accident benefits, or an employee or dependent receives payment for hospitalization, surgical, and/or medical expenses by reason of bodily injury or sickness in respect of which some third party is under legal liability, the Company or the insurer at the Company's option, shall be subrogated to the employee or dependant's right to compensation for the cost of the benefits and/or services provided in respect of such bodily injury or sickness to the extent of the amount paid by the Company either directly or indirectly, or through coverage provided by the Insurance policy, in respect thereof. The employee by acceptance of the benefits, will undertake that s/he or the dependent so entitled to compensation, shall prosecute such claim against the third party at the expense of, and to the extent directed by the Company and pay over to the Company what it is entitled to receive as aforesaid together with any expenses it may have paid or incurred from any moneys recovered from such third party. S/he or the dependent will do all acts and execute all documents necessary to permit the Company to obtain the benefit of this Clause.
9.11	The Company shall supply, upon request of the Union, the following information:
a)	A current list of employees showing sex, birth date, and hiring date.
b)	Retirant - names, type of retirement, age of retirant, amount of pension, and amount of insurance at retirement.
ARTICLE X
TERMINATION OR MODIFICATION
10.01 The Plan is subject to such amendment from time to time as may be necessary to meet the requirements of any applicable Federal or Provincial laws, orders or regulations. The relevant provisions of The Insurance Act of Ontario shall be deemed to apply except to the extent that such provisions may be waived or are superseded by the express provisions of this Agreement.
10.02	The said Plan may be modified or discontinued, after three (3) months notice to the Union but not prior to the effective date of any change in the legislation referred to hereinafter, should the whole or any part of the
52
expenses to the Company be disallowed as a deduction for income tax purposes, or should the income tax laws be changed to provide for disallowance in whole or in part of payments of this class and kind as income tax deductions. Should modification or discontinuance of the Plan become necessary for any of these reasons, negotiations will be resumed immediately after such notice is given.
10.03	Should any legislation of the Federal, Provincial, or Municipal governments alter or supersede any of the benefits provided in this Agreement, the Company shall have the option to amend this Agreement and accept the change, provided such amendment does not reduce the aggregate of benefits. However, should the Company elect not to amend the Plan and/or accept the change, the Union shall have the right to re-open for renegotiation, with respect only to the affected benefits, within 30 days following the 30th day after the official proclamation of such change. Negotiations with respect only to the affected benefits will commence within fifteen (15) days. If negotiations are not completed by the date on which such change becomes legislatively effective, this Agreement shall continue in full force and effect thereafter, subject to termination upon thirty (30) days written notice. Such notice shall be given only on such date as will allow for termination of this Agreement to coincide with the termination of the Collective Agreement then in effect. In the event of such termination, the provisions of this Agreement shall continue to operate in the manner as provided in the Labour Relations Act of Ontario.
Notwithstanding anything in this Clause to the contrary, if premiums are changed by the Ontario Health Insurance Plan for substantially the same benefits as previously provided, the Company will accept such change.
10.04	This Agreement constitutes a full settlement of all demands of the Union for life insurance, accidental death and dismemberment insurance, and accident and sickness benefits including weekly indemnity benefits, Medical Benefits, Hospital Benefits, Surgical Benefits for its duration, and during the term hereof or of any renewal hereof, neither the Union nor its representatives shall:
i) make any demand that this Agreement be changed in any respect or terminate or that a new life insurance, accidental death and dismemberment insurance or sickness or accident benefits plan be established for the employees or that the Company contribute or pay any greater amount for such benefits for the employees than it is required to pay under the provisions hereof; or,
ii) engage in, or continue to engage in, or in any manner encourage or sanction any strike or other action which will interfere with work or production at the plants of the Company for the purpose of securing any such change or termination; and except during the last forty-five (45) days of the term of this Agreement or of any renewal thereof and except during the periods as provided in Clauses 10.03 and 10.05 of this Article X, the Company shall not have any obligation to negotiate or bargain with the Union with respect to any of the matters referred to in (i) of this Clause.
10.05	Subject to the foregoing, this Agreement shall become effective on
June 1st, 1998 and shall remain in full force and effect until midnight May 31,	2001, and shall continue in effect thereafter from year to year for
further periods of one year each unless either party shall have given written notice of termination or written notice of proposals for amendment to the
53
other party prior to, but not more than ninety (90) days prior to, the expiration date or any yearly period thereafter.
In the event of written notice of termination or proposals for amendment having been given by either party herein provided, negotiations shall be proceeded with during the notice period with a view to completing a new Agreement. Should such negotiations extend beyond the expiration date, this Agreement shall not expire, but shall continue in full force and effect in accordance with The Labour Relations Act of Ontario, or until a new agreement is entered into by the parties, whichever date shall occur first. In the event of termination of this Agreement by strike or lock-out, the benefits described therein shall be provided for ninety (90) days.
54
AGREEMENT
Supplemental Unemployment Benefit Plan
THIS AGREEMENT made and entered into this first day of June, 1998 by and between Uniroyal Goodrich Tire Manufacturing, Kitchener, Ontario, a Division of Michelin North America (Canada) Inc., hereinafter called the "Company" and the United Steelworkers of America on behalf of Local #677 hereinafter called the "Union" for the occupational classifications represented by the Union as set forth in Article II, of the Collective Agreement.
WHEREAS:	The parties hereto have theretofore agreed to establish a
Supplemental Unemployment Benefit Program and agreed to negotiate the terms and conditions of a Supplemental Unemployment Benefit Plan.
NOW THEREFORE, it is mutually agreed as follows:
ARTICLE I
ELIGIBILITY FOR BENEFITS Section 1. Eligibility for a Regular Benefit
An employee shall be eligible for a Regular Benefit for any week beginning on or after the effective date of this Agreement if with respect to such week he:
(a)	was on a qualifying layoff, as described in Section 4 of this Article,
for all or part of the week;
(b)	received an Employment Insurance Act Benefit not currently under protest
by the Company or did not receive an Employment Insurance Act Benefit
for any one of the following reasons:
(1)	S/he did not have prior to layoff a sufficient period of employment or earnings covered by the Employment Insurance Act;
(2)	exhaustion of his/her Employment Insurance Act rights;
(3)	s/he was serving an Employment Insurance Act "waiting week" while
temporarily laid off out of line of Seniority for a maximum period up to six weeks pending placement under the terms of the Collective Labour Agreement provided that the provisions of this Item (3) shall not be applicable to:	(a) plant rearrangement, (2) inventory layoff;
(4)	the week was a second "waiting week" within his/her benefit year under the Employment Insurance Act, or was an Employment Insurance Act "waiting week" immediately following a week for which s/he received an Employment Insurance Act Benefit, or occurring within less than 52 weeks since his/her last Employment Insurance Act "waiting week";
(5)	s/he refused a Company work offer which s/he has an option to refuse under the Collective Labour Agreement or which s/he could refuse without disqualification;
55
(6)	s/he	was on layoff because s/he	was unable to do work offered by the
Company while able to do other work in the plant to which s/he would have been entitled if s/he had had sufficient Credited Service.
(7)	s/he	was denied an Employment	Insurance benefit solely because of
the	U.I. allocation to such	week of earnings from a "waiting
period";
(8)	it is determined with the concurrence of Canada Employment and Immigration Commission, that, under the circumstances, it would be contrary to the intent of the Plan and Commission policy to deny him/her a benefit;
(9)	s/he was required to take work under the Employment Insurance law paying less than 80% of his/her "Weekly Straight Time Pay", while temporarily laid-off and waiting recall;
(10)	s/he voluntarily took work paying less than 80% of his/her "Weekly Straight Time Pay", while temporarily laid-off and waiting recall.
(c)	was actively seeking work or had accepted work other than that covered by the Bargaining Unit which paid less than 80% of his/her "Weekly Straight Time Pay" while temporarily laid-off and waiting recall, had not failed or refused to accept work deemed suitable under the applicable Employment Insurance Act and has met any registration and reporting requirements of an employment office of such applicable Employment Insurance Act.
(d)	has to his/her credit a Credit Unit or fraction thereof;
(e)	did not receive an unemployment benefit under any contract or program of another employer or under any other "SUB" plan of the Company (and was not eligible for such a benefit under a contract or program of another employer with whom s/he has greater Credited Service than with the Company nor under any other "SUB" plan of the Company in which s/he has Credit Units which were credited earlier than his/her oldest Credit Units under this Plan);
(f)	was not eligible for an automatic Short Week Benefit;
(g)	has made a Benefit application in accordance with procedures established by the Company hereunder.
Section 2. Eligibility for a Special Short Week Benefit
An employee shall be eligible for a Special Short Week Benefit for any Week beginning on or after the effective date of this Agreement if:
(a)	during such Week s/he performed some work for the Company or performed Compensated Work for the Union or was otherwise compensated by the Company for a day or part thereof but his/her Compensated or Available Hours were less than the number of hours in his/her Normal Work Week. During a week of scheduled shutdown, compensation for a holiday or holidays (but only with respect to an Employee laid off in a reduction of force in accordance with the applicable Collective Labour Agreement),
56
for vacation or for work for the Union or a combination thereof, shall not of itself qualify him/her for a benefit hereunder;
(b)	With respect to such Week his/her Company pay and any Company pay which
s/he would have received, for hours scheduled for or made available to him/her but not worked did not equal or exceed his/her EEIAEL.
(c)	with respect to such Week s/he satisfied all of the eligibility
conditions for a Regular Benefit.
Section 3. Eligibility for an Automatic Short Week Benefit
(a)	An Employee shall be eligible for an Automatic Short Week Benefit for
any week beginning on or after the effective date of this Agreement if:
(1)	during such Week s/he performed some work for the Company, or performed Compensated Work for the Union or was otherwise compensated by the Company for a day or part thereof, but his/her Compensated or Available Hours were less than the number of hours in his/her Normal Work Week. During a week of scheduled shutdown, compensation for a holiday or holidays (but only with respect to an employee laid off in a reduction of force in accordance with the applicable Collective Labour Agreement), for vacation or for work for the Union or a combination thereof, shall not of itself qualify him/her for a benefit hereunder;
(2)	s/he has at least 1 Year of Credited Service as of the last day of such week;
(3)	s/he was on a qualifying layoff, as described in Section 4 of this Article, for some part of such Week;
(4)	with respect to such Week his/her Company pay and any Company pay which s/he would have received for hours scheduled for or made available to him/her but not worked, equalled or exceeded his/her EEIAEL, subject to (i) below if less than his/her EEIAEL.
i) If with respect to such week his/her Company pay and any Company pay which s/he would have received for hours scheduled for or made available to him/her but not worked equalled or exceeded his/her allowable earnings but is less than his/her EEXAEL, s/he shall be eligible for an Automatic Short Week Benefit for such week, provided s/he registers with the Human Resources Development Canada and provided s/he is ineligible to receive an Employment Insurance Benefit for such week, because s/he is serving a "waiting week", or part thereof.
The Company will establish a procedure for notifying employees in writing of any requirement to register at the Human Resources Development Canada Office in order to establish a waiting week or part thereof.
(5)	s/he did not have a period or periods of lay off in the Week and in the preceding or following week occurring in such sequence as
57
to constitute a "week of unemployment" (as defined under the applicable Employment Insurance Act) which included some part of the Week:	provided, however, that when an Employee has a period of
layoff with respect to which s/he has established such an Employment Insurance Act "week of unemployment", which starts on a day other than Sunday or Monday, s/he will be entitled (if otherwise eligible) to receive a partial Automatic Short Week Benefit with respect to any hours of layoff on days within a Work Week which are not included in such (or any other) established Employment Insurance Act "week of unemployment".
(b)	No application for an Automatic Short Week Benefit, other than a partial
Automatic Short Week Benefit, will be required of an Employee. However, if an Employee believes himself/herself entitled to an Automatic Short Week Benefit for a Week which s/he does not receive on the date when such Benefits for such Week are paid, s/he may file written application therefor in accordance with procedures established by the Company.
(c)	An Automatic Short Week Benefit payable for a Week shall be in lieu of
any other Benefit under the Plan for that Week, except that this provision does not apply to a partial Automatic Short Week Benefit.
Section 4. Conditions With Respect to Layoff
(a)	A layoff for the purposes of this Plan shall arise from any temporary layoff resulting from a reduction in force, the discontinuance of a plant or an operation or a temporary layoff occurring or continuing because the employee was unable to do the work offered by the Company although able to perform other work in the plant to which s/he would have been entitled if s/he had sufficient credited service. Medically restricted employees awaiting suitable placement will be considered on layoff occurring in a reduction in force.
(b)	An employee's layoff, as defined in paragraph (a) of this section, for
all or part of any Week will be deemed qualifying for Plan purposes only if the following conditions are met, as applicable thereto:
(1)	such layoff was from the Bargaining Unit;
(2)	such layoff was not for disciplinary reasons, and was not a
consequence of:
(i)	any strike*, slowdown, work stoppage, picketing (whether or not by Employees), or concerted action, at a Company Plant or Plants, or any dispute of any kind involving Employees or other persons employed by the Company, and represented by the Union whether at a Company Plant or Plants or elsewhere;
(ii.) any war or hostile act of a foreign power (but not government regulation or controls connected therewith);
(iii)	sabotage or insurrection, or
(iv)	any act of God; provided, however, this subsection (iv) shall not apply to the first two (2) weeks of layoff
58
resulting from such cause;
* At the end of any legal strike by Employees, the Company and the Union shall mutually agree as to the period of time necessary for normal start-up which shall be incorporated as part of any strike settlement memorandum. After such period of time an Employee will not be disqualified for S.U.B. solely because of such strike.
(3)	with respect to such Week the Employee did not refuse to accept work when recalled pursuant to the Collective Labour Agreement and did not refuse an offer by the Company of other available work, which s/he had no option to refuse under the Collective Labour Agreement; provided, however, that where Skilled Trades employees refuse production work it will not disqualify them under this subparagraph (3); and
(4)	with respect to such Week the Employee was not eligible for and was not claiming:
(i)	any accident or sickness or any other disability benefit; or
(ii)	any Company pension or retirement benefit;
(c)	If, with respect to some but not all of his/her regular work days in a Week, an Employee is ineligible for a Benefit, s/he will be entitled to a reduced Benefit payment as provided in Section 1(c) of Article II.
Section 5.
Disputed Claims for Employment Insurance Act Benefits.
(a)	with respect to any Week for which an Employee has applied for a Benefit
and for which he:
(1) has been denied an Employment Insurance Act Benefit, and the denial is being protested by the Employee through the procedure provided therefor under the Employment Insurance Act, or
(2)	has received an Employment Insurance Act Benefit, payment of which is being protested by the Company through the procedure provided therefor under the Employment Insurance Act
and the Employee is eligible to receive a Benefit under the Plan except for such denial, or protest, the payment of such Benefit shall be suspended until such dispute shall have been determined.
(b)	If the dispute shall be finally determined in favour of the Employee,
the Benefit shall be paid to him/her if and to the extent that s/he had not exhausted Credit Units subsequent to the Week to which the Employment Insurance Act Benefit in dispute is applicable.
Section 6. Vacation Shutdowns
It is understood that an Employee who is eligible for weeks of paid vacation in an amount not less than the period of scheduled plant vacation shutdown,
59
will not be eligible to receive a Benefit under the Plan for the period of plant shutdown, regardless of whether s/he has taken his/her vacation prior to or is deferring his/her vacation until after the shutdown, and regardless of his/her eligibility for unemployment benefits under these circumstances. An employee who has taken vacation during a week or weeks when he otherwise would have been scheduled off in a curtailment of production shall not be disqualified from benefits under the plan, as provided above, to the extent of such week or weeks so taken.
ARTICLE II
AMOUNT OF BENEFITS
section 1. Regular Benefits and Special Short Week Benefits
(a)	The Regular Benefit payable to an eligible Employee for any Week
beginning on or after the effective date of this Agreement shall be an amount, which, when added to his/her Employment Insurance Benefit and Other Compensation, will equal 80% of his/her Weekly Straight Time Pay for each Week for which s/he is eligible for a Regular Benefit.
(b)	The Special Short Week Benefit payable to an eligible Employee for any
Week beginning on or after the effective date of this Agreement shall be an amount which, when added to the Employee's Employment Insurance Benefit and Other Compensation, (excluding the amount of any pay received or receivable from the Company) will equal the product of the number by which his/her Normal Week exceeds his/her Compensated Of Available Hours, counted to the nearest tenth of an hour, multiplied by 80% of his/her Short Work Week Average Hourly Earnings; provided, however, that a Regular Benefit shall be payable for the Week if the amount of such Regular Benefit is equal to or greater than the amount of the Special Short Week Benefit.
(c)	An otherwise eligible Employee entitled to a Benefit reduced, as
provided in Subsection 4(c) of Article I, because of ineligibility with respect to part of the Week, will receive the greater of:
(1)	A prorata amount based on the scheduled hours of work computed under
Subsection (a) of this section for each work day of the Week for which s/he is eligible under this Plan, provided, however, that there shall be excluded from such computation any pay which could have been earned, computed, as if payable, for hours made available by the Company but not worked during the days for which s/he is not eligible for a Benefit under Subsection 4 (c) of Article I; or
(2)	any Special Short Week Benefit computed under Subsection (b) of this
section for which s/he may be eligible.
Section 2. Automatic Short Week Benefit
(a)	The Automatic Short Week Benefit payable to any eligible Employee for any Week beginning on or after the effective date of this Agreement shall be an amount equal to the product of the number by which the number of hours in his/her Normal Work Week exceeds his/her Compensated
60
or Available Hours, counted to the nearest tenth of an hour, multiplied by 80% of his/her Short Work Week Average Hourly Earnings.
(b)	An eligible Employee entitled to a partial Automatic Short Week Benefit with respect to certain hours of layoff not included in an Employment Insurance Act "week of unemployment", as provided in Section 3(a)(5) of Article I, will receive an amount computed as provided in Subsection 2(a) above, based on the number by which the hours for which the Employee would regularly have been compensated exceeds his/her Compensated or Available Hours, with respect to the days within the Work Week not included in such Employment Insurance Act "week of unemployment".
Section 3. Employment Insurance Benefit and Other Compensation
(a)	An Employee's Employment Insurance Benefit and Other Compensation for a
Week means:
(1)	the amount of Employment Insurance Act Benefit received or
receivable by the Employee for the week or the estimated amount which the Employee would have received if s/he had not been ineligible therefor solely as set forth in item (8) of Section 1(b) of Article I (concerning a Week for which his/her pay received or receivable from the Company was not less than his/her EEIAEL minus $2) ; plus
(2)	all amounts by which the applicant's earnings or remuneration or
otherwise, as defined under the law of the Employment Insurance Regulations, exceed the allowable earnings under Employment Insurance Regulations, plus
(3)	all amounts s/he would have received from the Company for hours
scheduled or offered him/her but not worked; the amount being computed on the basis of "Average Hourly Earnings" as herein defined; plus
(4)	the amount of all other benefits in the nature of compensation or
benefits for Unemployment received or receivable under Municipal, Provincial, or Federal laws and regulations.
(b)	For purposes of Subparagraph (a) (1) above, the estimated amount of the
Employment Insurance Act Benefit which would have been received by the Employee shall be equal to whichever of the following amounts is applicable:
(1)	If s/he has an established and currently applicable weekly benefit rate under the Employment Insurance Act, such benefit rate plus any Dependents' allowances, or
(2)	in all other cases, the Employment Insurance Act Benefit which would apply to an individual having the same number of Dependents as the Employee and having weekly earnings equal to the Employee's Weekly Straight Time Pay.
61
(c)	If the Employment Insurance Act Benefit actually received by an Employee for a week shall be for less, or more, than a full week (for reasons other than the Employee's receipt of wages or remuneration for such week), because,
(1)	s/he has been disqualified or otherwise determined ineligible for a
portion of his/her Employment Insurance Act Benefit for reasons other than set forth in Section l(b) of Article I, or
(2)	the applicable Employment Insurance week includes one (1) or more
"waiting period effective days", or
(3)	of an underpayment or overpayment of a previous Employment
Insurance Act Benefit, the amount of the Employment Insurance Act
Benefit which would otherwise have been paid to the Employee for such Employment Insurance week shall be used in the calculation of "Employment Insurance Benefit and other Compensation" for such Employment Insurance week.
(d)	If the Employment Insurance Act Benefit applies to a period of less than seven (7) days due to commencement or termination of unemployment other than on the first or last day of the normally applicable week, the 7-day period of the normally applicable Employment Insurance week will be used in calculating Employment Insurance Benefit and Other Compensation for such Employment Insurance week.
section 4. Definition of Scheduled and Unscheduled Short Work Week
(a) For purposes of the Plan, a Scheduled Short Work Week with respect to an Employee is a Short Work Week which Management schedules in order to reduce the production of the plant, department, or other unit in which the Employee works, to a level below the level at which the production of such plant, department, or unit would be for the Week were it not a Short Work Week, but only where such reduction of production is for the purpose of adjusting production to customer demand.
(b)	For purposes of the Plan, an Unscheduled Short Work Week with respect to
an Employee is any Short Work Week:
(1)	which is not a Scheduled Short Work Week as defined in Subsection 4(a) above;
(2) in which an Employee returns to work from layoff to replace a separated or absent Employee (including an Employee failing to respond or tardy in responding to recall), or returns to work, after a full Week of layoff, in connection with an increase in production, but only to the extent that the Short Work Week is attributable to such cause.
(c)	The Company will advise a designated Union Representative, or Representatives, of the Local Union at the time of layoff of the reason or reasons causing any Short Work Week involving a substantial number of Employees.
62
Section 5. Insufficient Credit Units For Full Benefit
If an Employee has to his/her credit less than the full number of Credit Units required to be cancelled for the payment of a Benefit for which s/he is otherwise eligible, s/he shall be paid the full amount of such Benefit and all remaining Credit Units or fractions thereof to his/her credit shall be cancelled.
Section 6. Effect of Low Trust Fund Position
Notwithstanding any of the other provisions of the Plan, if, and as long as the applicable Trust Fund Position for any week shall be less than 4%, no benefit for such week shall be paid from the fund.
Section 7. Benefit Overpayments
(a)	If the Company or the Board determines that any Benefit(s) paid under the Plan should not have been paid or should have been paid in a lesser amount, written notice thereof shall be mailed to the Employee receiving the Benefit(s) and s/he shall return the amount of overpayment to the Trustee, providing, however, that no repayment shall be required if the cumulative overpayment is $3 or less or if notice has not been given within 120 days from the date the overpayment was established or created, except that no such time limitation shall be applicable in cases of fraud or willful misrepresentation.
(b)	If the Employee shall fail to return such amount promptly, the Trustee
shall arrange to reimburse the Fund for the amount of overpayment by making a deduction from any future Benefits (not to exceed $15 from any one (1) Benefit except in cases of fraud or willful misrepresentation), or by requesting the Company to make a deduction from compensation payable by the Company to the Employee (not to exceed $25 from any one (1) pay cheque except in cases of fraud or willful misrepresentation), or both. The Company is authorized to make such deduction from the Employee's Compensation and to pay the amount deducted to the Trustee.
Section 8. Withholding tax
The Trustee shall deduct from the amount of any Benefit any amount required to be withheld by the Trustee or the Company by reason of any law or regulation, for payment of taxes or otherwise to any Federal, Provincial, or Municipal Government of Canada.
Section 9. Minimum Regular Benefit
Whenever an Employee performs no work for the Company or any other employer in a Week and his/her Regular Benefit computed under (a) (1) of Section 1 of this Article provides no Benefit or Benefits of less than $10 for the Week, s/he shall be paid an amount sufficient to bring his/her Benefit for the Week up to $10.
63
Section 10
The Trustee shall deduct from the amount of any benefit, Union membership dues of those employees who so authorize by written authorization, subject to the terms and conditions under Article III of the Collective Agreement, in such amount as may be fixed by the Local Union.
ARTICLE III
CREDIT UNITS AND DURATION OF BENEFITS Section 1. General
Credit Units shall have no fixed value in terms of either time or money, but shall be a means of determining eligibility for and duration of Benefits.
Section 2. Accrual of Credit Units
(a)	For work Weeks commencing on or after the effective date of this Agreement, Credit Units shall be credited at the rate of 1/2 of a Credit Unit for each Work Week for which an Employee receives any pay from the Company and for Work Weeks for which s/he does not receive pay from the Company but for which s/he receives a Leveling Week Benefit.
(b)	For the purpose of accruing Credit Units under this Section.
(1)	pay in lieu of vacation shall be considered as pay for the Work Week
in which it is paid: and
(2)	back pay shall be considered as pay for each Work Week to which it
may be allocable.
(3) non-occupational Accident and Sickness payments, and Workers’ Compensation payments shall be considered as pay for the Work Week for which they are paid.
(4)	time lost when excused for Local Union business and a Leave of Absence for Local Union business shall be included in determining a Work Week under this Section.
(c) On and after June 1, 1998, no Employee may have to his/her credit in the aggregate at any one time under this Plan and under any other "SUB" Plan of the Company more Credit Units than specified below.
Years of Employee's
Credited Service
Maximum
Credit Units
Less than 5 5 but less than 10 10 but less than 15 15 but less than 25 25 and Over
52
78
104
130
208
However, any Employee who has at any time to his/her credit in the aggregate a total of the applicable maximum number of Credit Units (as
64
specified above) under this Plan and any other "SUB" plan of the Company and who would otherwise accumulate additional Credit Units in the Bargaining Unit in which s/he is currently employed, may direct that such additional Credit Units shall be credited to him/her and a corresponding number of Credit Units accumulated under this Plan in any other Bargaining Unit or under any other "SUB" plan of the Company, shall be cancelled, as long as the aggregate of his/her Credit Units at any one time does not exceed the applicable maximum.
(d)	No employee shall be credited with any Credit Unit prior to the first
day of which he:
(i)	has at least one (1) year	of Credited Service; and
(ii)	is on the Active Payroll	in the Bargaining Unit (or was on such
Active Payroll within 45	days prior to such first day)	but	as of
such day s/he shall be	credited with Credit Units	for	weeks
subsequent to his/her Company service date at the rate specified in Paragraph (a) of this Section.
For the purposes of this subparagraph only, an Employee is on the Active Payroll in any pay period for which s/he draws pay while in a Bargaining Unit or is on authorized leave of absence which is limited, when issued, to 90 days or less; during the first 90 days of continuous absence due to illness or injury; on disciplinary layoff; absent without leave up to seven (7) calendar days from his/her last day worked.
(e)	An Employee who has Credit Units as of the last day of a Week shall be
deemed to have them for all of the Week.
(f) At such time as the amount of any Benefit overpayment is repaid to the Fund, except as otherwise provided in the Plan, the number of Credit Units, if any, theretofore cancelled with respect to such overpayment of Benefits shall be restored to the Employee, except to the extent that such restoration would raise the number of his/her Credit Units at the time thereof above the applicable maximum, and except as otherwise provided with respect to Credit Unit forfeiture under Section 3 of this Article.
Section 3. Forfeiture of Credit units
A person shall forfeit permanently all Credit Units with which s/he shall have been credited if at any time:
(a)	s/he shall be removed from the rolls of the Company for any reason other than layoff or entering Military Service.
(b)	s/he shall lose his/her rights to rehire with credit for back service.
(c) s/he shall be on layoff from the Bargaining Unit for a continuous period
of twenty-four (24) months (or for Employees with 15 but less than 25 years of Credited Service, 30 months, or for Employees with 25 or more years of Credited Service, 48 months), Or
(d)	s/he shall willfully misrepresent any material fact in connection with
an application by him/her for Benefits under the Plan.
65
Section 4. Credit Unit Cancellation on Payment of Benefits
The number of Credit Units to be cancelled for any Benefit shall be determined in accordance with the following table on the basis of:
(a) The Credited Service of the Employee to whom such Benefit is paid; and
(b) The Trust Fund Position applicable to the Week for which such Benefit is paid.
If the Credited Service of the Person to Whom Such Benefit is Paid is:
If the Trust Fund Position Applicable to the Week for Which Such Benefit is Paid is:
1-5	5-10	10-15	15-20 20 Yrs.
Yrs. Yrs. Yrs. Yrs. & Over
The Credit Units cancelled for such Benefit shall be:
80% or over 70 - 79.99% 60 - 69.99% 50 - 59.99% 40 - 49.99% 30 - 39.99% 20 - 29.99% 10 - 19.99% 4-	9.99%
Under 4%
1.00
1.15
1.30
1.50
2.00
2.50 3.33 5.00
7.50
1.00
1.00
1.15
1.30
1.50
2.00
2.50 3.33 5.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.15
1.30
1.50
2.00
2.50 3.33
1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.15	1.00
1.30	1.15
1.50	1.30
2.00	1.50
2.50	2.00
- No Benefit Payable from the fund.
Exceptions to the Credit Unit Cancellation rates in the above table are as follows:
(1) 1/2 of the number of Credit Units will be cancelled for an unscheduled Automatic Short Week Benefit payable for three (3) or more hours when with respect to such Week the Employee has earned from the Company an amount equal to or in excess of 80% of his/her Weekly Straight Time Pay; and
(2) No Credit Units shall be cancelled when an Employee receives:
(i)	an Automatic Short Week or Special Short Week Benefit for a Scheduled Short Work Week;
(ii)	a Leveling Week Benefit; or
(iii)	an Automatic Short Week Benefit for an Unscheduled Short Work Week payable for less than three (3) hours.
Section 5. Armed Services
An Employee who enters the Armed Services of Canada directly from the employ of the Company shall, while in such service, be deemed, for purposes of the Plan, to be on Leave of Absence and shall not be entitled to any Benefits. All Credit Units credited to the Employee at the time of his/her entry into such service shall be credited to him/her upon his/her reinstatement as an Employee.
66
Section 6. Transfer Out of Bargaining Unit
If an Employee is transferred out of the Bargaining Unit to a job which is not covered by a similar Supplemental Unemployment Benefit Plan of the Company, his/her Credit Units shall be cancelled. They shall be reinstated, however, if s/he is transferred back to the Bargaining Unit with, or after s/he acquires, at least one (1) year of Credited Service therein.
Section 7. Exhaustion of Credit Units
On exhaustion of an Employee's Credit Units s/he shall not be entitled to further benefits.
Section 8. Cancellation of Credit Units
When an Employee's Credit Units are cancelled under the provisions of Section 3 of this Article, s/he shall be entitled to no further Benefits until s/he shall have been credited with additional Credit Units.
ARTICLE IV
APPLICATION AND DETERMINATION OF ELIGIBILITY Section 1. Applications
(a)	Filing of Applications
An application for a Benefit may be filed either in person or by mail in accordance with procedures established by the Company. Such procedures shall require the applicant to apply for a Benefit within sixty (60) days after each Week for which s/he is claiming Benefits; provided, however, that if the payment of the Benefit is delayed because of an Employment Insurance Act Benefit being protested, an application may be made within two (2) weeks after the protest has been settled. Under such procedures an Employee applying for a Benefit shall be required to appear personally at a location designated for this purpose to register as an applicant and to supply needed information at the time of, or prior to, making his/her first application following layoff.
(b)	Application Information
Applications filed for a Benefit under the Plan will include:
(1)	in writing any information deemed relevant by the Company with respect to other benefits received, earnings and the source thereof, dependents, and such other information as the Company may require in order to determine whether the Employee is eligible to be paid a Benefit and the amount thereof; and
(2) with respect to a Regular or Special Short Week Benefit, the exhibition of the Employee's Employment Insurance Act Benefit cheque or other evidence satisfactory to the Company of either;
67
(i) his/her receipt of an Employment Insurance Act Benefit, or
(ii) his/her ineligibility for an Employment Insurance Act Benefit only for one or more of the reasons specified in Section 1(b) of Article I; provided, however, that in the case of Employment Insurance Act Benefit ineligibility by reason of the pay received from the Company or otherwise (Item 3 of Section 1	(b) of Article I), Employment
Insurance Act evidence for such reason of ineligibility shall not be required.
Section 2. Determination of Eligibility
(a)	Application Processing by Company
When an application is filed for a Benefit under the Plan and the Company is furnished with the evidence and information required, the Company shall determine the Employee's entitlement to a Benefit. The. Company shall advise the Employee of the number of Credit Units cancelled for each Benefit payment and the number of Credit Units remaining to his/her credit after such payment.
(b)	Notification to Trustee to Pay
If the Company determines that a Benefit is payable, it shall deliver prompt written notice to the Trustee to pay the Benefit. The payment of Benefits under the Plan may be made by, and the return of amounts of overpayment may be made to, the representatives of the Trustee appointed by it for such purpose. Such representatives may be employees of the company.
(c)	Notice of Denial of Benefits
If the Company determines that an Employee is not entitled to a Benefit it shall notify him/her promptly, in writing, of the reason(s) for the determination.
(d)	Union Copies of Application and Determinations
The Company shall furnish to the Local Union SW Representative a copy of all Company determinations of Benefit Payment ineligibility or overpayment.
ARTICLE V
ADMINISTRATION OF THE PLAN AND APPEAL PROCEDURES Section 1. Powers and Authority of the Company
(a)	Company Powers
The Company shall have such powers and authority as are necessary and appropriate in order to carry out its duties under this Article, including, without limitation, the following:
68
to obtain such information as the Company shall deem necessary in order to carry out its duties under the Plan;
to investigate the correctness and validity of information furnished with respect to an application for a Benefit;
to make initial determinations with respect to Benefits;
to establish reasonable rules, regulations and procedures concerning:
(i)	the manner in which and the times and places at which
(ii)	the form, content and substantiation of applications	for
Benefits.
(5)	to designate an office or department at the Plant, or in the alternative a location in the general area of the Plant, where Employees laid off may appear for the purpose of complying with the Plan requirements;
(6)	to determine the Maximum Funding of the Fund and the Trust Fund Position;
(7)	to establish appropriate procedures for giving notices required to be given under the Plan;
(8)	to establish and maintain	necessary	records; and
(9)	to prepare and distribute	information explaining	the Plan.
(b) Company Authority
Nothing contained in this Plan shall be deemed to qualify, limit or alter in any manner the Company's sole and complete authority and discretion to establish,	regulate,	determine,	or modify	at	any	time
levels of employment, hours of work,	the extent	of hiring	and	layoffs,
production schedules, manufacturing methods, the products and parts thereof to be manufactured, where and when work shall be done, marketing of its products, or any other matter related to the conduct of its business or the manner in which its business is to be managed or carried on, in the same manner and to the same extent as if this Plan were not in existence; nor shall it be deemed to confer either upon the Union or the Board of Appeals any voice in such matters.
Section 2. Appeals Procedure
(a)	First Step Appeals
The Company shall designate one (1) person to serve as its representative for the consideration of appeals by applicants and the Union shall designate a representative for the same purpose. The Employee designated as the representative of the Union shall be paid for time lost from work in attending meetings with the Company representative for the consideration of such appeals. Such payments shall be made directly by the Company.
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
69
Any person who shall have been determined by the Company not to be entitled to a benefit, who shall have been determined to be entitled to be paid a benefit that is lesser in amount than the amount to which such person believes s/he is entitled, who questions the number of Credit Units credited to him/her at the time of layoff, who has had more of his/her Credit Units cancelled than s/he believes correct or who is determined to be ineligible for a Benefit which determination is disputed by him/her, may appeal such determination by presenting an Appeal on a form to be provided for the purpose, either to the Company representative or to the Union Representative. In situations where a number of Employees had filed applications for Benefits under substantially identical conditions, an appeal may be filed with respect to one of such Employees and the decision thereon shall apply to all such employees.
If there is no Local Union or Plant SUB Representative at any Plant because of a discontinuance of such Plant, the appeal may be filed directly with the Board of Appeals.
If either the Company representative or the Union representative shall find that such Appeal is justified, s/he shall so notify the other representative and the Company representative and the Union representative shall meet within ten (10) days from the date of the Appeal (or such extended time as may be agreed upon) to determine the disposition of such Appeal.
(b)	In the event the two parties cannot agree upon the disposition of the Appeal, the Appeal can be processed through the grievance procedure commencing at the 3rd step level. An Appeal to Step 4, Arbitration, excludes an Appeal to Expedited Arbitration.
Section 3. Determination of Dependents
(a)	Regular Benefits
In determining an Employee's Dependents for purposes of Benefit determinations, the Company shall be entitled to rely upon the official form filed by the Employee with the Company for income tax withholding purposes, and the Employee shall have the burden of establishing that s/he is entitled to a greater number of withholding exemptions than s/he shall have claimed on such form.
(b)	EEIAEL
In calculating an employee's EEIAEL, the Company shall be entitled to rely upon such information as may be available listing dependents. The employee shall have the burden of establishing that s/he is entitled to a different number of dependents than that being used by the Company.
Section 4. To Whom Benefits are Payable in Certain Conditions
Benefits shall be payable only to the eligible Employee, except that if the
Company shall find that the Employee is deceased or is unable to manage
his/her affairs for any reason, any Benefit payable to him/her shall be paid
to his/her duly appointed legal representative, if there be one, and, if not,
70
to the spouse, parents, children, or other relatives or dependents of the Employee as the Company in its discretion may determine.
Any Benefit so paid shall be a complete discharge of any liability with respect to such Benefit. In the case of death, no Benefit shall be payable with respect to any period following the last day of layoff immediately preceding the Employee's death.
Section 5. Nonalienation of Benefits
Except for a deduction specifically provided for under this plan, no Benefit shall be subject in any way to alienation, sale, transfer, assignment, pledge, attachment, garnishment, execution, or encumbrance of any kind and any attempt to accomplish the same shall be void. In the event that such an attempt has been made with respect to any Benefit due or to become due to any Employee, the Company in its sole discretion may terminate the interest of the Employee in the Benefit and apply the amount of the Benefit to or for the benefit of the Employee, his/her spouse, parents, children, or other relatives or dependents as the Company may determine and any such application shall be a complete discharge of all liability with respect to the Benefit.
Section 6. Applicable Law
The Plan and all rights and duties thereunder shall be governed, construed and administered in accordance with the laws of the Province of Ontario, except that the eligibility of an employee for, and the amount and duration of, Employment Insurance Act Benefits shall be determined in accordance with the Employment Insurance laws of the Employment Insurance Act. Payments in respect to guaranteed annual remuneration or in respect to deferred remuneration or severance pay benefits are not reduced or increased by payments received under the plan.
ARTICLE VI FINANCIAL PROVISIONS Section 1. Establishment of Fund
The Company shall maintain a Fund in accordance with this Supplemental Unemployment Benefit Plan, with a qualified trust company or companies selected by the Company as Trustee. The Company's contributions shall be made into the Fund, the assets of which shall be held, invested and applied by the Trustee, all in accordance with the Plan. Benefits shall be payable only from such Fund. The Company shall provide in the contract with the Trustee that the Fund shall be held in cash or invested only in guaranteed trust company debentures and/or general obligation of the Government of the Dominion of Canada and/or the Government of a Canadian Province.
Section 2. Maximum Funding and Trust Fund Position
(a) Maximum Funding
There shall be a Maximum Funding of the Fund for each calendar month (and for each pay period when required by the provisions of Subsection
(b)	of this Section).
71
Commencing with the month following the month in which the Plan becomes effective and for any month thereafter the Maximum Funding of the Fund shall be determined by multiplying the sum of (i) the number of employees on the active payroll and (ii) the number of persons laid off from work who are not on the active payroll but who have credit units; the above number of employees and persons shall be as determined by the Company as of the latest period for which the figures are available prior to the first Monday in the month for which the Maximum funding is being determined (or prior to the pay period if the Maximum Funding is being determined for a pay period) by the applicable amount as shown in the following table;
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
(7)
(8) (9)
(10)
(ID
(12)
For the month of June 1998 and succeeding months	$ 350
For the month in which the Trust Fund amount first reaches $350 and	succeeding
months	375
For the month in which the Trust Fund amount first reaches $375 and succeeding months
400
For the month in which the Trust Fund amount first reaches $400 and succeeding months
425
For the month in which the Trust Fund amount first reaches $425 and succeeding months
450
For the month in which the Trust Fund amount first reaches $450 and succeeding months
475
For the month in which the Trust Fund amount first reaches $475 and succeeding months
500
For the month in which the Trust Fund amount first reaches $500 and succeeding months
525
For the month in which the Trust Fund amount first reaches $525 and succeeding months
550
For the month in which the Trust Fund amount first reaches $550 and succeeding months
575
For the month in which the Trust Fund amount first reaches $575 and succeeding months
600
For the month in which the Trust Fund amount first reaches $600 and succeeding months
625
72
(13)
(14)
(15)
(16)
For the month in which the Trust Fund amount first reaches $625 and succeeding months
650
For the month in which the Trust Fund amount first reaches $650 and succeeding months
675
For the month in which the Trust Fund amount first reaches $675 and succeeding months
700
For the month in which the Trust Fund amount first reaches $700 and succeeding months
725
(17)
For the month in which the Trust Fund amount first reaches $725 and succeeding months
750
(b) Trust Fund Amount
There shall be a Trust Fund Amount for the Fund for each month commencing with the month of June, 1957. The Trust Fund Amount for any particular month shall be determined by dividing the current market value of the total assets in such Fund as of the close of business on the Friday preceding the first Monday of such month, as certified by the Trustee, by the sum of (i) the number of employees on the Active Payroll and (ii) the number of persons laid off from work who are not on the Active Payroll, but who have Credit Units, such total number to be that used in determining the Maximum Funding for such month in accordance with Paragraph (a) of this Section. The Trust Fund Amount for the Fund for any particular month commencing with June, 1957, shall be applied in connection with such Fund for all purposes under the Plan to each of the pay periods beginning within such month.
(c)	Trust Fund Position
There shall be a Trust Fund Position (stated as a percentage) for the Fund for each calendar month commencing with the month of June, 1957. The Trust Fund Position for the Fund for any particular month shall be determined by dividing the current market value of the total assets in such Fund as of the close of business on the Friday preceding the First Monday of such month, as certified by the Trustee, by the Maximum Funding of such Fund for such month. The Trust Fund Position for the Fund for any particular month shall be applied in connection with such Fund for all purposes under the Plan to each of the Pay Periods beginning within such month; provided, however, that after June, 1957, whenever the Trust Fund Position for the Fund for any particular month is less than 10%, such Trust Fund Position shall be applied in connection with such Fund for all purposes under the Plan only to the first Pay Period beginning within such month, and thereafter there shall be determined a Trust Fund Position (stated as a percentage) for such Fund for each Pay Period until the Trust Fund Position for a particular Pay Period equals or exceeds 10%. When the Trust Fund Position for a particular Pay Period equals or exceeds such percentage such Trust Fund Position shall be applied in connection with such Fund for such purposes to each Pay period until a Trust Fund Position for the following
73
calendar month shall be applicable pursuant to this Section. The Trust Fund Position for the Fund for a particular Pay Period shall be determined by dividing the current market value of the total assets in such Fund as of the close of business on the Friday preceding such Pay period, as certified by the Trustee, by the Maximum Funding of such Fund for such pay period.
(d)	Finality of Determinations
No adjustment in the Maximum Funding, Trust Fund Amount, or the Trust Fund Position of the Fund shall be made on account of any subsequently discovered error in the computations or the figures used in making the computations, except (i) in the case of an error in bad faith, or (ii) in the case where after discovery of an error adjustment is practicable, and then the adjustment shall only be prospective in effect, unless such adjustment would be substantial in the opinion of the Company. Nothing in the foregoing shall be construed to excuse the Company from making up any shortage in its contributions to the Fund.
Section 3. Contributions by Company
(a)	Company Contributions
(1)	Commencing with the pay period beginning after June 1, 1998 and with respect to each pay period thereafter, for which the applicable Trust Fund Amount is less than the figure shown in Column A, the Company shall make a contribution to the fund of an amount to be determined by multiplying the applicable figure in Column B by the total number of hours for which employees shall have received pay from the Company for such pay period (or such lesser amount as will bring the Trust Fund amount to Column A, in which case the remainder of said total number of hours shall be multiplied by the next lower figure in the applicable Column B).
Column A under 150 under 300 under 450 under 550 under 650 under 750
Column B $.21 .19 .17 .15 .13 .11
(2)	In addition to the contributions otherwise required by this Article, the Company shall contribute to the Fund the Amount of any Automatic Short Week and Special Short Week benefits paid from the Fund as Scheduled Short Work Week Benefits for any pay periods for which the Trust Fund Amount is less than $180.
(3)	Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Agreement, the Company shall not be obligated to make any contribution to the Fund with respect to any pay period for which the applicable Trust Fund Amount is more than $750, and no contribution to the Fund for any pay period shall be in excess of the amount necessary to bring the total market value of the assets in such Fund up to the maximum Funding of such Fund.
74
(b)	When Contributions are Payable
(1)	Contributions by the Company shall be made on or before the close of business on the first regularly scheduled work day in the third calendar week following the pay period with respect to which the contribution is being made.
(2)	In periods in which the Trust Fund Position equals or exceeds 10%, weekly contributions may be accumulated and made on or before the close of business on the first regularly scheduled work day of the calendar week in which the Friday used for determining the Trust Fund Position falls.
(c)	Reductions from Contributions
Contributions required by the provisions of Section 3	(a) of this
Article shall be reduced by the following:
(1)	the cost of providing Hospital-Medical Benefits for laid-off employees as specified in the Health and Life Insurance Agreement less the period following layoff for which the Company pays otherwise;
(2)	the amount of money added to each vacation cheque at the time written due to Short Week Benefit payments, consistent with the terms of the Collective Labour Agreement;
(3)	if contributions to the Fund are not required for any period, or if the contributions required are less than the amounts to be offset under this Paragraph (c) , then any subsequently required contributions shall be reduced by the amount not previously offset against contributions; any such amount not previously offset against contributions shall be deducted from the Market Value of the assets in the Fund in determining Trust Fund Position and the relationship of the Fund to Maximum Funding;
(4)	if the Company at any time shall be required to withhold any amount from any contribution to the Fund by reason of any government, or provincial law or regulation, the Company shall have the right to deduct such amount from the contribution and pay only the balance to the Fund.
Section 4. Liability
(a)	The Company shall not be obligated to make up, or to provide for making
up, any depreciation, or loss arising from depreciation, in the value of the securities held in the Fund (other than as contributions by the Company may be required under the provisions of this Article when the Market Value of the assets of the Fund is less than the Maximum Funding); and the Union shall not call on the Company to make up, or to provide for making up, any such depreciation or loss.
(b)	The Company, the Trustee, and the Union, and each of them, shall not be
liable because of any act or failure to act on the part of any of the others, and each is authorized to rely on the correctness of any information furnished to it by an authorized representative of any of the others.
75
(c)	Notwithstanding the above provisions, nothing in this Section shall be
deemed to relieve any person from liability for willful misconduct or fraud.
(d)	The Trustee shall not be liable for the making or retaining of any
investment or for realized or unrealised loss thereon whether from normal or abnormal economic conditions or otherwise.
Section 5. no Vested Interest
No Employee shall have any right, title, or interest in or to any of the assets of the Fund, or in or to any Company contribution thereto.
Section 6. Reports
(a)	Reports by the Company
(1)	The Company shall notify the Union in triplicate, monthly (or weekly if the trust fund amount is less than 10%) of the amount of Maximum Funding, Trust Fund Amount and the Trust Fund Position for the Fund as determined by it under the Plan, and shall furnish a statement showing the number of Employees on the Active Payroll and the number of laid-off Employees having Credit Units upon which the Trust Fund Position determination was made.
(2)	On or before July 30 of each year, beginning with the year 1998, the Company shall furnish to the Local Union in triplicate a statement certified by a qualified independent firm of Certified Public Accountants selected by the Company:
(i)	showing the number of hours for which Employees drew pay from the Company and with respect to which the Company shall have made contributions to the Fund during each period of the preceding year, and
(ii)	verify the accuracy of the information furnished by the Company during the preceding year pursuant to Subsection
(a) (1) of this Section.
(3)	The Company will comply with reasonable requests by the Union for other statistical information on the operation of the plan which the Company shall compile. Such information will include the
following:		
(a)	the number of Employees on layoff monthly;	
(b)	the amount of Regular Benefits paid, Special Short Week Benefits paid;	and Automatic
(c)	the duration of Regular Benefits;	
(d)	the number of Employees who have exhausted Benefits each calendar year;	their Regular
76
(e)	the number of Employees laid off and ineligible for Regular Benefits because of having less than one (1) year of Credited Service;
(f)	the total number of Employees who received one or more Regular Benefits, Special and Automatic Short Week Benefits;
(g)	the amount of the reductions monthly from contributions reduced by the provisions of (c) of Section 3 and the amounts under each category listed in (c) ;
(h)	the number of employees who drew more than 52 Credit Units during a continuous period by designated Credited Service brackets each calendar year;
(i)	on or before the end of February, of each year, the Company shall furnish to each Employee the amount of Benefits received by him/her under the Plan;
(j)	The Company will comply with reasonable requests by the Union for other statistical information on the operation of the Plan which the Company may have compiled.
(b)	Reports by the Trustee
(1)	Within fifteen (15) days after the commencement of each month, beginning with the month in which the Company shall have made its first contribution under the Plan, the Trustee shall be required to furnish to the Local Union, and the Company a statement showing the amounts received from the Company for the Fund during the preceding month.
(2)	Not later than the second Tuesday following the first Monday of each month, the Trustee shall furnish to the Local Union, and the Company (i) a statement showing the total Market Value of the Fund as of the close of business on the Friday following the last Monday of the preceding month, and (ii) a statement showing the amounts, if any, paid as Benefits from the Fund each week during the preceding month.
Section 7. Cost of Administering the Plan
(a)	Expense of Trustee
The costs and expenses incurred by the Trustee under the Plan and the fees charged by the Trustee shall be charged to the Fund.
(b)	Cost of Services
The Company shall be reimbursed each year from the Fund for the cost to the Company of bank fees and auditing fees.
Section 8. Benefit Drafts Not Presented
If the Trustee has segregated any portion of the Fund in connection with any determination that a Benefit is payable under the Plan and the amount of such
77
Benefit is not claimed within a period of two (2) years from the date of such determination, such amount shall revert to the Fund.
ARTICLE VII
CONDITIONS TO EFFECTIVENESS AND CONTINUATION OF PLAN Section 1. Effect of Amended Agreement
This Amended Agreement on Supplemental Unemployment Benefits, when it becomes effective, shall supersede and completely replace and supplant the original Agreement on Supplemental Unemployment Benefits concluded between the parties March 14th, 1958, as from time to time thereafter amended. However, until such time as this Agreement becomes effective, the Plan shall be governed in all respects by the terms of the original Agreement of March 14th,1958, as heretofore amended.
Section 2. Income Tax Rulings
This amended Agreement shall not become effective unless and until the Company shall have received from the Minister of National Revenue and the applicable Provincial Treasury Department, a currently effective ruling or rulings, satisfactory to the Company, holding that the Amendment of the Plan accomplished hereunder does not modify, alter, or change in any manner, the rulings previously issued by the Minister and the applicable Provincial Treasury Department, with respect to the Plan, including particularly their determination that Company contributions to the Plan shall constitute a currently deductible expense, and that such contributions are not taxable income to the Trust under the Dominion Income Tax Act, and applicable Provincial and/or Municipal Corporations Tax Acts, as now in effect, or as may be hereafter in, effect, or under any other applicable Dominion or Provincial and/or Municipal Income or Corporations Tax Law.
Section 3. Human Resources Development Canada Rulings and Supplementation
(a)	It is the purpose of the Plan to supplement Employment Insurance Benefits during temporary periods of unemployment to the levels herein provided, and not to replace or duplicate them.
(b)	Benefits shall not be payable to applicants under this Agreement unless
and until it shall have been established to the satisfaction of the Company, by administrative rulings from the Human Resources Development Canada of the Dominion Government or other competent authorities, or by statutory amendments, that Supplementation (as hereafter defined) is permitted. When such rulings or amendments are obtained, Weekly Supplemental Benefits shall be paid to eligible applicants (provided that the requirements of Section 2 of this Article have been met) with respect to Pay periods commencing on or after the date of the commencement of the first pay Period following the date on which such rulings or amendments shall have been received.
(c)	For the purpose of this Section, "supplementation11 means recognition of
the right of a person to receive both an Employment Insurance Benefit and a Weekly Supplemental Benefit under the Plan for the same Week of layoff at approximately the same time and without reduction of the
78
Employment Insurance Benefit because of the payment of the Weekly Supplemental Benefit under the Plan.
Section 4. Application for Rulings
The Company shall apply promptly for any required rulings from the appropriate agencies. Copies of all correspondence covering such rulings shall be mailed to the Local Union.
Letter of Understanding:
The rulings and approvals provided for herein shall be deemed to include a requirement for confirmation or ruling from Revenue Canada, Taxation in a form satisfactory to the Company, that the Plan as amended continues to be a "Registered Supplementary Unemployment Benefit Plan" as defined in section 145 of the Income Tax Act (Canada) and from any other governmental authority that the Plan is in compliance with all relevant governmental policies, guidelines and legislation.
ARTICLE VIII MISCELLANEOUS
Section 1. Receipt of Benefits
Neither the Company's contribution nor any Benefit paid under the Plan shall be considered a part of any Employee's wages for any purpose. No person who receives any Benefit shall for that reason be deemed an Employee of the Company during such period, and s/he shall not thereby accrue any greater right to participate in, accrue credits or receive Benefits under any other employee benefit plan to which the Company contributes than s/he would if s/he were not receiving such Benefits.
Section 2. Effect of Revocation of Federal Rulings
In the event that any ruling required under Section 2 and 3 of Article VII, having been obtained, shall be revoked or modified in such manner as no longer to be satisfactory to the Company, all obligations of the Company under the Plan shall cease, and the Plan shall thereupon terminate and be of no further effect (without in any way affecting the validity of operation of the Collective Labour Agreement or any other Agreement between the Company and the Union), except for the purpose of paying the expenses of administration and paying Benefits, all in accordance with the provisions of the Plan, until the assets of the Fund shall have been exhausted, except that Section 6 of Article II shall not be applicable. If there are assets still remaining in the Fund, the provisions of Section 3	(b) of Article VIII shall apply to
their disposition.
Section 3. Amendment and Termination of the Plan
(a)	So long as the Collective Labour Agreement of which this Supplemental Unemployment Benefit Plan as amended is a part shall remain in effect, the Plan shall not be amended, modified, suspended or terminated, except as may be proper or permissible under the terms of the Plan or the
79
Collective Labour Agreement. Upon termination of the Collective Labour Agreement, the Company shall have the right to continue the Plan in effect and to modify, amend, suspend or terminate the Plan, except as may be otherwise provided in any subsequent Collective Labour Agreement between the Company and the Union.
(b)	Upon any termination of the Plan, the Plan shall terminate in all respects, except that the assets then remaining in the Fund shall be subject to all of the applicable provisions of the Plan then in effect, and shall be used until exhausted to pay expenses of administration, and to pay Benefits to eligible applicants laid off, or thereafter laid off, in the order each week of the respective date as of which they were laid off. Section 6, Article II, shall not be applicable. In the Event there are any assets in the Fund after all the above payments have been made, and there are no eligible applicants remaining, all assets in the Fund shall be returned to the Company.
Upon termination, the Company and the Union will give immediately a written order to the trustee that the remaining assets be paid to the company.
(c)	Notwithstanding any other provisions of the Plan, the Company, with the consent of the Union, may make such revisions in the Plan not inconsistent with the purpose, structure, and basic provisions thereof as shall be necessary to obtain or maintain any rulings required under the Plan. Any such revision shall adhere as closely as possible to the language and intent of the Plan.
(d)	This Agreement and the obligation of the Company to continue the Plan without change or modification (except as permitted hereunder) during the life of the Collective Labour Agreement shall be deemed supplemental to and part of the Collective Labour Agreement, and during the term of the Collective Labour Agreement neither the Company nor the Union shall request any change in, deletion from, or addition to the Plan or Agreement.
Section 4. Ratification
This Agreement shall not become effective unless and until this Agreement and the Collective Labour Agreement, executed concurrently herewith, shall both have been ratified and approved by the Local Union and also the International Union and written notice of such ratification and approval shall have been received by the Company.
Section 5. Union Identification of Benefit Cheques
All cheques payable for any Benefit or Payment under the Plan shall indicate that the benefit or payment is being made in accordance with the Agreement on Supplemental Unemployment Benefits between the Company and the Union.
Section 6. General Information
Each employee will be given a copy of the Plan, and will upon request be given access to information on their credit units.
80
ARTICLE IX
DEFINITIONS
As used herein:
Wherever the masculine gender appears in this Agreement, it shall be construed as meaning male or female, unless the context in the Clause requires otherwise.
(1)	"ACTIVE PAYROLL" - An Employee is on the Active Payroll in any Pay Period for which s/he draws pay.
(2)	"AVERAGE HOURLY EARNINGS" means the average straight time hourly earnings of an Employee and is determined by dividing his/her total wage payments including shift premiums but excluding overtime premium, vacation pay, and all amounts earned while the Employee is classified as a learner, made to the Employee during the last three pay periods in which s/he worked in the Bargaining Unit by the hours s/he was paid for in those periods but excluding such hours in which s/he was classified as a learner; provided, however, that should the Employee have no earnings during such last three pay periods other than when s/he is classified as a learner, his/her Average Hourly Earnings shall be based on his/her earnings and hours, excluding earnings and hours on a learner's classification, during the pay period first preceding such last three pay periods in which s/he worked any hours while not classified as a learner.
If a general wage increase has become effective between the period for which Average Hourly Earnings have been calculated and the date of layoff, such general wage increase shall be added to the Average Hourly Earnings so calculated. In order to provide a minimum appropriate to the current wage scales in the plant, the Average Hourly Earnings shall in no case be deemed to be less than eight dollars ($8.00) per hour for purposes of calculating the Benefits Payable.
(3)	"BARGAINING UNIT" means a unit of Employees covered by the Collective Labour Agreement.
(4)	"BENEFIT" means an Automatic Short Week Benefit, Regular Benefit, Special Short Week Benefit, or any or all three as indicated by the context.
(a)	"Automatic Short Week Benefit" means the Benefit payable to an eligible Employee for a Short Work Week for which his/her Company pay and any Company pay which s/he would have received for hours scheduled for or made available to him/her but not worked equalled or exceeded his/her EEIAEL, except as provided in Article I Section 3(a)(4)(i).
(b) "Leveling Week Benefit" means the Weekly Supplemental Benefit payable to an eligible Employee for all or part of a Week because, with respect to the Week, s/he was serving an Employment Insurance Act "waiting week" and during such Week or part thereof s/he was temporarily laid off out of line of Seniority pending
81
placement in accordance with the terms of the Collective Labour Agreement.
(c)	"Regular Benefit” means the Benefit payable to an eligible Employee for a week of layoff in which s/he performed no work for the Company, or in which s/he performed some work for the Company but neither the period worked nor pay received was sufficient to disqualify him/her for an Employment Insurance Act Benefit and the amount of the Special Short Week Benefit calculated for such Week was less than the Regular Benefit amount.
(d)	"Special Short Week Benefit” means the Benefit payable to an eligible Employee for a Short Work Week for which his/her Company pay and any Company pay which s/he would have received for hours scheduled for or made available to him/her but not worked did not equal or exceed his/her EEIAEL.
(e)	"Weekly Supplemental Benefit” means either a Regular Benefit or a Special Short Week Benefit, payable under the Plan.
(5)	"COLLECTIVE LABOUR AGREEMENT” means the currently effective Collective Agreement between the Company and the Union which incorporates this Plan by reference and the supplements thereto.
(6)	" COMPANY" means Uniroyal Goodrich Tire Manufacturing Kitchener,
Ontario.
(7)	"COMPENSATED OR AVAILABLE HOURS” for a Week shall be the sum of:
(a)	all hours for which an Employee receives pay from the Company
(including reporting pay and holiday pay, but excluding pay in lieu of vacation) and each hour paid at premium rates to be counted as one (1) hour; and
(b)	all hours scheduled for or made available to the Employee by the
Company but not worked by him/her after notice consistent with existing practice under the Collective Labour Agreement (including any period on leave of absence). When work is offered and refused, hours charged will not exceed hours made available and such hours will be charged in the following order:
(i)	to the Employees who actually perform the work offered;
(ii)	to Employees who signified their intention to work and then failed to report;
(iii)	to Employees who first refused the opportunity for the work in the event that insufficient Employees offered to work the hours available (includes absent Employees who otherwise would have been offered the work); and
(iv)	when work is offered (as opposed to scheduled) on normal days off, hours worked will not be charged for Automatic Short Work Week benefits.
82
(c)	all hours not worked by the Employee because of any of the reasons disqualifying the Employee from receiving a Benefit under Subsection 4 (b) (2) of Article I; and
(d)	all hours not worked by the Employee which are in accordance with a written agreement between Local Management and designated Local Union Representatives; and
(e)	all hours which are attributable to absenteeism of other Employees, providing such absenteeism was not caused by an act of God; and
(f)	with respect to any Employee who is regularly scheduled less than the hours of the Normal Work Week, the number of hours by which his/her regularly scheduled hours are less than the hours of the Normal Work Week except when the assigned weekly premium hours have been de-scheduled as per clause 6:01 of the C.L.A. and;
(g)	all hours not worked by the Employee because of work sharing required by the Collective Labour Agreement except:
(i) where the Union is not asked by the Company to waive the work sharing provisions; or
(ii) when the Union refuses to waive the work sharing provisions and the Company, after the work sharing period, fails to lay off; and
(h)	all hours not worked by the Employee because of a change in shift resulting from a request of the Employee.
(8) "CREDIT UNITS" means the units determining duration of an Employee's Benefits which are credited to him/her generally by reason of his/her Weeks of Active Service and cancelled at specified rates for the payment of certain Benefits.
(9)	"DEPENDENT" means any person recognized as such under the provisions of the Employment Insurance Act 1997, or as amended by the Human Resources Development Canada.
(10)	"EMPLOYEE" means an employee of the Company while, during the life of this Agreement, s/he is in the collective bargaining unit as defined in and covered by the Collective Labour Agreement.
(11)	"ALLOWABLE EARNINGS" means the amount of earnings the employee is permitted to earn before any deductions would be made from his/her Weekly Employment Insurance Benefits.
(12)	"EEIAEL" (Estimated Employment Insurance Act Earnings Limit) means the amount, if any, of an Employee's remuneration which is disregarded in determining whether s/he is unemployed during a Week under the Employment Insurance Act, plus the first item in the following amounts which is applicable:
(a) if the Employee has had established under the Employment Insurance Act a currently applicable Weekly Benefit Rate for a week of "total unemployment", an amount equal to such benefit
83
rate (plus any applicable dependents' allowances if such allowances are considered under the Employment Insurance Act in determining whether an individual is unemployed);
(b)	if the employee is ineligible for Employment Insurance Act
Benefits because of exhaustion of his/her Benefit rights under the Employment Insurance Act, an amount equal to the Weekly Benefit Rate for a week of "total unemployment" which applied to the most recent week for which s/he received an Employment Insurance Act Benefit (plus any applicable dependents' allowances if such allowances are considered under the Employment Insurance Act in determining whether an individual is unemployed) ; or
(c)	for any other Employee, an amount equal to the Employment
Insurance Act Benefit Rate for a Week of "total unemployment" which would be payable to an individual having this same number of dependents as the Employee and having weekly earnings equal to the Employee's Weekly Straight-Time Pay plus any applicable dependents' allowances if such allowances are considered under the Employment Insurance Act in determining whether an individual is unemployed.
(13)	"FUND" means a Trust Fund established under the Plan to receive and invest Company contributions and to pay benefits.
(14)	"PLAN" means the Supplemental Unemployment Benefit Plan, established by an Agreement, between the Company and the Union dated June 1, 1957, as from time to time amended and as continued under this Agreement.
(15)	"PLANT" means as per Clause 2.01 of the Collective Agreement.
(16)	"PLANT REARRANGEMENT" for purposes of Article I, section 1(b) (4) are those physical rearrangements of machinery and/or equipment which affect all or substantially all of the operations in a department, division or plant.
(17)	"CREDITED SERVICE" means Credited Service as defined under the Collective Labour Agreement.
(18)	"SHORT WORK WEEK" means a Work Week during which an Employee performs some work for the Company or performed Compensated Work for the Union or was otherwise compensated by the Company for a day or part thereof but his/her Compensated or Available Hours for such Week are less than the number of hours in his/her Normal Work Week. During a week of scheduled shutdown, compensation for a holiday or holidays (but only with respect to an Employee laid off in a reduction of force in accordance with the applicable Collective Labour Agreement), for vacation or for work for the Union or a combination thereof, shall not of itself qualify him/her for a benefit hereunder.
(19)	"EMPLOYMENT INSURANCE ACT" means the Act or program, established by law, for paying benefits to persons on account of their unemployment.
(20)	"UNEMPLOYMENT BENEFIT" means a benefit payable under the terms of the Employment Insurance Act for which the person is eligible.
84
(21)	"SUPPLEMENTATION" means recognition of the right of a person to receive both an Employment Insurance Act Benefit and a Weekly Supplemental Benefit under the Plan for the same week of Layoff at approximately the same time and without reduction of the Employment Insurance Act Benefit because of the payment of the Weekly Supplemental Benefit under the Plan.
(22)	"TRUSTEE" means the Trustee or Trustees of the Fund established under the Plan.
(23)	"TRUST FUND POSITION" means the percentage position of the Fund as determined periodically pursuant to the provisions of Article VI;
"TRUST FUND AMOUNT" means the dollar amount in the Fund per eligible Employee as determined periodically pursuant to the provisions of Article VI.
(24)	"UNION" means the United Steelworkers of America on behalf of Local 677.
(25)	"WEEK" when used in connection with eligibility for and computation of Benefits with respect to an Employee means:
(a)	a period of layoff equivalent to a Work Week;
(b)	a Work Week for which a full-time Employee shall have been
scheduled or offered work for less than 27 hours including hours paid for but not worked;
(c)	a Short Work Week.
"Week of Layoff" shall include any such Week; provided, however, that if there is a difference between the starting time of a Work Week and of a Week under an applicable Employment Insurance Act, the Work Week shall be paired with the Employment Insurance Act Week which corresponds most closely thereto in time; except that if an Employee is ineligible for an Employment Insurance Act Benefit because of any of the reasons set forth in Section 1 (b) of Article I (excluding the reasons under Items (3) and (4) thereof) for the entire continuous period of layoff, the Week under the Employment Insurance Act shall be assumed to be the same as the Work Week. If an Employee becomes ineligible for an Employment Insurance Act Benefit because of the reasons set forth in Section 1 (b) of Article I, (excluding Items (3) and (4) thereof), during a continuous period of layoff, the week under the Employment Insurance Act shall be assumed to continue to be, for the duration of the lay-off period during which s/he remains so ineligible, the seven-day period for which an Employment Insurance Act Benefit was paid to the Employee during such continuous period of layoff. Each Week within a continuous period of layoff will not be considered a new or separate layoff. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this definition, if an Employee is ineligible for an Employment Insurance Act Benefit because of the reason set forth in Item (3) of Section 1 (b) of Article I, the Week under the Employment Insurance Act shall be assumed to be the seven-day period which would have been used by the Employment Insurance Act if the Employee had applied for an Employment Insurance Act Benefit on the first day of
85
partial or full layoff in the Work Week and had been eligible otherwise for such Employment Insurance Act Benefit.
(26)	"WEEKLY STRAIGHT TIME PAY" means an amount equal to an Employee's Average Hourly Earnings (as determined for a Weekly Supplemental Benefit) multiplied by the scheduled hours of work in the work week.
(27)	"WORK WEEK" or "PAY PERIOD" means seven (7) consecutive days beginning on Saturday at the regular starting time of the shift to which the Employee is assigned or was last assigned immediately prior to being laid off.
(28)	"NORMAL WORK WEEK" means The Normal Work Week for the purpose of computing a Special Short Week Benefit, the Automatic Short Week Benefit and a Regular Benefit when comparing with a Special Short Week Benefit shall be the number of scheduled work hours in the Normal Work Week (normal work week subject to removal of assigned weekly premium hours as per clause 6:01 C.L.A.) as stated in the Collective Labour Agreement.
ARTICLE X
DURATION AND TERMINATION
This Agreement shall become effective as of June 1, 1998, and shall continue in full force and effect in respect to all its terms at least until midnight May 31, 2001.
Either the Company or the Union may request renegotiation of the provisions herein by giving written notice within a period of ninety (90) days prior to May 31, 2001, or any anniversary date thereafter. In such case, negotiations will commence forty-five (45) days prior to the termination date, and if negotiations are not completed by such date, this Agreement shall continue in full force and effect thereafter, subject to termination upon thirty (30) days written notice by either party to the other. In the event of such termination, the provisions of this Agreement shall continue to operate in a manner as provided in the Labour Relations Act of Ontario.
86
AGREEMENT
Separation Payment Plan
This Agreement made and entered into this first day of June, 1998 by and between Uniroyal Goodrich Tire Manufacturing, Kitchener, Ontario, a Division of Michelin North America (Canada) Inc., hereinafter called the "Company" and the United Steelworkers of America on behalf of Local #677 hereinafter called the "Union" for the occupational classifications represented by the Union as set forth in Article II of the Collective Agreement which became effective on June 1st, 1998.
WHEREAS: The parties hereto have theretofore agreed to establish a Separation Payment Plan and agreed to negotiate the terms and conditions of a Separation Payment Plan.
NOW, THEREFORE, it is mutually agreed as follows:
Section I DEFINITIONS
"Separation Payment" means such Benefit as is payable to eligible employees in accordance with the terms of this Separation Payment Plan.
Any term used herein which has a counterpart that is defined in the Supplemental Unemployment Benefit Plan shall have the same meaning, for the purposes of this Separation Payment Plan, as such term has under the Supplemental Unemployment Benefit Plan, and in addition, the term "Plan", wherever used in the Supplemental Unemployment Benefit Payment Plan, shall be construed to include this Separation Payment Plan, except to the extent that such construction would be inconsistent with the provisions hereof, provided, however, that in the event of any conflict between the provisions of this Separation Payment Plan and the provisions of the Supplemental Unemployment Benefit Plan, the provisions of this Separation Payment Plan will control to the extent of eliminating such conflict.
Wherever the masculine gender appears in this Agreement, it shall be construed as meaning male or female, unless the context in the Clause requires otherwise.
Section II ELIGIBILITY
An applicant who is an Employee on or after June 1st, 1998, shall be eligible for a Separation Payment, provided that:
a)	on or after June 1st, 1998, s/he is laid off from the Company and has recall rights under the Collective Agreement; and the reason for the layoff was not the result of any of the circumstances specified in Section 4 (b) (2) , or 4 (b) (3) of Article I of the Supplemental Unemployment Benefit Plan, and the layoff is for a continuous period of at least two (2) years or such shorter period as the Company may determine on the basis of re-employment prospects; and
b)	s/he has had two (2) or more years of Credited Service on the last day worked for the Company; and
87
c)	s/he has not received or is not eligible to receive a Severance Award under the Severance Award Agreement dated June 1st, 1998, or any successor Agreement; and
d)	s/he has made application for a Separation Payment in accordance with the procedure established by the Company subseguent to twenty-four (24) months from the commencement date of layoff and prior to the date s/he loses his/her credited service under the Collective Agreement except in the case of an applicant whose seniority is lost on the expiry of two years of layoff who must apply within thirty days after the loss of his/her seniority rights to be eligible.
Section III METHOD OF PAYMENT
a)	A Separation Payment shall be payable to the Employee, by the Company, in a lump sum.
b)	When	the applicable	Trust Fund	Position	for the week	in	which	a
Separation Payment becomes payable is equal to or in, excess of $375, such payment shall be a first charge against any and all future Company contributions to the Trust Fund.
c)	When	the applicable Trust Fund	Position	for the week	in	which	a
Separation Payment becomes payable is less than $375, such payment shall not be charged against future contributions to the Trust Fund, for the purpose of computing Trust Fund Position, or otherwise, and shall be paid by the Company directly.
Section IV AMOUNT OF SEPARATION PAYMENT
a)	The amount of the Separation Payment payable to an eligible applicant shall be the following:
(1)	His/her average	Hourly Earnings multiplied by fifty (50) for	an
employee having	one (1) or	more but	less than two	(2)	years	of
Credited Service.
(2)	His/her average Hourly Earnings multiplied by seventy (70) for an employee having two (2) or more but less than three (3) years of Credited Service.
(3)	His/her average Hourly Earnings multiplied by one hundred (100) for an employee having three (3) or more but less than four (4) years of Credited Service.
(4) His/her average Hourly Earnings multiplied by one hundred and thirty-five (135) for an employee having four (4) or more but less than five (5) years of Credited Service.
(5)	His/her average Weekly Straight Time Pay multiplied by one (1) times his/her years of Credited Service for an employee having five (5) or more but less than ten (10) years of Credited Service.
(6) His/her average Weekly Straight Time Pay multiplied by one and one-quarter (1-1/4) times his/her years of Credited Service for an employee having ten (10) or more but less than fifteen (15) years of Credited Service.
88
(7)	His/her average	Weekly Straight Time Pay multiplied	by one and one-
half (1-1/2)	times his/her years	of Credited	Service for an
employee having fifteen (15) or more but less than twenty (20) years of Credited Service.
(8)	His/her average Weekly Straight Time Pay multiplied by two (2)
times his/her years of Credited Service for an employee having twenty (20) or more years of Credited Service.
b)	In	computing total earnings for the purpose of	calculating any
Separation Payment, all earnings from the Company for the period of Credited Service shall be included. In Addition, in the case of an Employee who received no compensation from the Company during any period of authorized absence to perform services for the Union in an official or	representative	capacity while an	officer of	the Union, the
compensation which s/he would have received from the Company had s/he been available for regular employment on his/her regular classification shall be included. Also in the case of an employee whose Credited Service includes any period for which s/he was absent, for service with the armed forces and received no compensation from the Company, the compensation which s/he would have received had s/he been available for regular employment during such period on his/her regular classification at the time s/he left shall be included. For whole and fractional years of Credited Service during which s/he was in employment prior to 1955, earnings for the year 1955 determined as aforesaid,	increased
proportionately to reflect a full year's earnings if no earnings have been included for one or more pay periods in 1955, shall be taken to be the rate of his/her earnings for all such whole and fractional years of Credited Service prior to 1955; but if any Employee had no earnings for 1955 (either actual or included in accordance with the preceding sentences) his/her earnings for the next succeeding year in which s/he had earnings, increased proportionately to reflect a full year's earnings if no earnings have been included for one or more pay periods in such year, shall be taken to the rate of his/her earnings for all such whole or fractional years of Credited Service prior to 1955.
c)	Notwithstanding the aforementioned, the amount of any Separation Payment to an eligible employee under this Section IV, shall be reduced by the single sum present value of any Pension or other benefit to which s/he is entitled under any Pension Plan financed by, or to which the Company has contributed as an employer. If such single sum present value equals or exceeds the amount of Separation Payment, such employee shall not receive any Separation Payment.
Section V EFFECT ON CREDITED SERVICE AND BENEFITS
An applicant, upon acceptance of a Separation Payment, shall cease to be an Employee and shall have his/her Credited Service cancelled as of the date his/her application for such Separation Payment was received by the Company, and shall forfeit any and all pension, insurance, or other rights under any Pension Plan or other Employee Benefit Plan financed in whole or in part by the Company.
Section VI REPAYMENT
If a person is again employed by the Company after s/he has received a Separation Payment, no repayment by the person of such Separation Payment
89
paid previously shall be required or allowed and no Credited Service cancelled previously shall be reinstated.
Section VII WITHOLDING TAX
The Company shall deduct from the amount of any Separation Payment as computed under this Separation Payment Plan, any amount required to be witheld by the Company by reason of any law or regulation for payment of taxes or otherwise of any federal, provincial, or municipal government.
Section VIII OVERPAYMENT
If the Company determines after issuance of a Separation Payment that the Separation Payment should not have been issued or should have been issued in a lesser amount, written notice thereof shall be mailed to the applicant and s/he shall return the amount of the over-payment to the Company.
Section IX REPORTS BY THE COMPANY
The Company shall furnish to the Union, from time to time, a listing showing the names of the persons who, during the preceding period, accepted a Separation Payment provided under this Separation Payment Plan, together with both the individual gross and net amounts of such Separation Payments.
The Company shall furnish to the Local Union SUB representative a copy of all applications for separation payment and Company determinations of ineligibility for separation or overpayment.
Section X
This Separation Payment Plan shall not become effective unless and until the Company shall have received favourable Federal and Provincial Tax Rulings, as provided for in Article VII, Section 2 of the Supplemental Unemployment Benefit Plan.
Section XI DURATION AND TERMINATION
This Separation Payment Plan shall become effective as of June 1st, 1998 and shall continue in full force and effect in respect to all its terms at least until midnight, May 31,	2001. Either the Company or the Union may request
renegotiation of the provisions herein by giving written notice within a period of ninety (90) days prior to May 31, 2001, or any anniversary date thereafter. In such case, negotiations will commence forty-five (45) days prior to the termination date, and if negotiations are not completed by such date, this agreement shall continue in full force and effect thereafter, subject to termination upon thirty (30) days' written notice by either party to the other. In the event of such termination, the provisions of this Agreement shall continue to operate in the manner provided in the Labour Relations Act of Ontario.
90
AGREEMENT
Mutual Dental Care Plan
(l) It is understood that:
effective on the first of the month following the date of ratification, arrangements will be made to provide eligible employees and their eligible dependants with dental coverage as outlined in the Mutual Dental Care Plan, which is identical to the Blue Cross Preventative Dental Care Plan #7, Riders 1, 2 and 4.
Coverage is based on reasonable and customary charges to the maximum recommended in the 1995 Ontario Dental Association Fee Guide for the following types of necessary dental services. The O.D.A. Fee Schedule will be increased to the 1996 dental fee schedule, effective June 1, 1999 and to the 1997 dental fee schedule, effective June 1, 2000.
When the total cost associated with the proposed dental work is expected to exceed $500, an estimate should be submitted to Mutual Life prior to the date the treatment is rendered to clarify the extent of coverage since some exclusions may apply.
Preventative Services - 100% Reimbursement
(a)	Examination and Diagnosis
-	complete oral examination (once every three years)
-	recall oral examination (once every six months)
-	special oral examination (when required)
-	treatment planning
-	consultation
-	house call, institutional call and office visit
(b) Tests and Laboratory Examinations
-	microbiologic cultures
-	caries susceptibility tests
-	biopsy of oral tissue
-	cytologic smear from oral cavity
-	pulp vitality tests
(c)
Radiographs
-	periapical (one complete series every three years)
-	periapical, one to ten films
-	occlusal
-	bitewing (once every six months)
-	extra oral
-	sialography
-	radiopaque dyes to demonstrate lesions
-	temporomandibular joint
-	cephalometric film
-	interpretation of radiographs received from another
source
-	tomography
-	hand and wrist (as diagnostic aid for dental
treatment)
91
(d)	Preventative Procedures
-	dental prophylaxis (once every six months)
-	topical application of fluoride
-	oral hygiene instruction (once every six months)
-	caries control
-	interproximal discing of teeth
-	occlusal equilibration (8 units of time every twelve
months)
(e)	Fillings
-	amalgam
-	retentive pins
-	silicate
-	acrylic or composite resin
-	stainless steel crowns
(f)	Surgical Procedures
-	uncomplicated removals
-	surgical removals
(g)	Anaethesia
(h)	In-office Laboratory Procedures
Endodontic and Periodontic Services - 100% Reimbursement
(a)	Periodontics
-	non-surgical services
-	surgical services
-	post-surgical treatment
-	scaling and root planing
-	adjunctive procedures
-	alveoplasty
<b)
Endodontics
-	pulpcapping
-	pulpotonry
-	root canal therapy
-	gingival curettage
-	alvecolectomy
-	banding of tooth
-	hemisection
-	canal and/or pulp enlargement
-	chemical bleaching only (per unit of time)
-	intentional removal, apical filling and
reimplantation
-	emergency procedures
(c) Surgical Services
-	surgical exposure, transplantation, and repositioning
-	surgical excision
-	surgical incision
-	fractures
-	frenectomy
-	miscellaneous surgical procedures
92
Dentures and Denture Repairs - 50% Reimbursement
(a)	Partial and Complete Dentures
-	complete denture (once every three years)
-	partial denture (once every three years)
(b)	Repairs and Adjustments
-	adjustments to dentures
-	repairs to dentures
-	addition of tooth
-	denture rebasing and relining
(c)	In-office Laboratory Procedures
Crowns and Bridges - 50% Reimbursement
(a)	Crowns, Inlays and Onlays
-	gold foil restorations
-	metal inlay restorations
-	porcelain restorations
-	crowns
-	other major restorative services
(b)	Fixed Bridgework (once every three years)
-	prosthodontic evaluation bridge pontics
-	retainers
-	repairs to bridges
-	abutments
-	other prosthetic services
(c)	In-office laboratory procedures
(2) Dental coverage will be provided on the following basis:
(a)	Active employees and their eligible dependants who were covered
under the Mutual Dental Care Plan dated June 1, 1998, provided they were actively at work following the date of ratification of this Agreement, will be provided dental coverage as outlined in (1) above. Employees who have not returned to active employment since the date of ratification of this Agreement will continue to be provided with their existing dental coverage; however, upon their return to active employment following the date of ratification, they will immediately be eligible for dental coverage as outlined in (1) above.
(b)	New employees hired after the effective date of this coverage
will become eligible for benefits as outlined in (1) above for themselves and their eligible dependants according to Article VIII, Clause 8.02 and 8.03 of the Insurance Program Agreement.
(c)	Employees who become eligible for a monthly Retirement Pension
(but not a Deferred Vested Pension), a monthly Disability Retirement Pension, or a Legislated Retirement Pension on or after the effective date of the new Pension Plan Agreement will be provided with Dental Benefits as outlined in (1) above,
provided they were actively at work on or after the effective date of the new Pension Plan Agreement, and provided their pensions become effective on or after that date. These employees referred to herein will continue to be provided with the dental coverage (if any) applicable at the date of being retired by the Company. Employees who have not returned to active employment on or after the effective date of the new Pension Plan Agreement will continue to be eligible for the dental coverage which they had as of their last day of active employment.
(d)	Retirants who are eligible for a monthly Retirement Pension (but not a deferred Vested Pension), a monthly Disability Retirement Pension, or Legislated Retirement Pension, who were retired prior to the effective date of the new Pension Plan Agreement, will continue to be provided with the dental coverage (if any) applicable at the date of being retired by the Company in accordance with the Mutual Dental Care Plan dated October 1, 1977, October 1, 1980, October 1, 1983, June 1, 1986, June 1,	1989 June 1,	1992 and June 1, 1995. Except as
herein provided in this part (b) the provisions of Article VIII of the Insurance Program Agreement will apply as far as they are relevant. The Dental Plan will not be included in the Insurance Program Agreement but will be attached as a separate addendum.
94