LABOUR AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
GENCORP CANADA INC.
OF WELLAND. ONTARIO ANO
LOCAL UNION NO. 485
THE UNITED RUBBER, CORK, UNOLEUM AND PLASTIC WORKERS OF AMERICA AFL'CIO'CLC OF WELLAND, ONTARIO
March S, 1993 - June 1,1999
607/4 (os)
INDBX
Pago Para.
Artleia
i Purpoaa
Oaaka of Company and Union...
Financial Difficulty.........
II	RaNgnfHon
Union flacoonWon Bargaining Sutyacta..........
III	OiaorlminaHon..................
Company or Union.............
NoDlwrlmlnnilon,.............
IV	Managamant
Managamant Functions.........
v Union Sacurity
Union MembaraNp..............
Autfierftatton (Now Emptoyaaa) ..... MaputaConoaming Emptoyofa'
Definition of Union Mambar... Vi Oaduotkm of Union Ouas
BaaponalblWy of Company .... Authorttatlon Form (Now
gmolouaaa) ......................
iaWtiiiWfiirtif nifiMtnnn
Owtflot iNMHnHutniiNiMnwnMHNNMMi
ineonaot OaducOon of Duao Union Caasing to tta Bargaining Agant
VII No 8Mko or PlokaUng
No Lookout....................
VW OriavanoaPnoadura
QrMmangaCcamnttiaaParaonmt... QrfavancaProeadura.
I
8tap t * Fonman wiih Emptoyaa
andfer&award.,
iMM< HMIIUIIII
Stop 2 - Qanaral Formnan with
Empioyaa and/or Staward... Stop 3 * Company Qrtavanoa
CommMaa wKfi Bargaining ComwMaa.......-----------
1 1.01 1 1.02
1 201 a 2.02
2 3.01 2 3.02
2	4.01
2 &01
3	8.02
3	9.03
3	8.04
3	6.01
4	&02 3 M3 6 tt04
6 0:08 6 7:01 6 7:02
6 ftOf
6	M2
0
7
7
Artlole
Pag# Para.


Step 4 • Personnel Manager and Company Representatives wHh Barg lining Committee with International Union Representative
Step 5-Arbitration.............
Arbitration Coats,
Scop* of Arbitration Board Arbitration Board Oadaion Tima Limit Additional Caaae-
Arbitration Board............
Discharge or Suspension for Cauaa
No Consideration of any Dlaputo
(Art. Vil violated)..........
Union Time Study Engineer
Studying Operation!...........
(A)	rime Limit for Study....
Aatroaotlva Payment-Rate Ortevanee
(A)	Maximum Period of Retroactivity Investigation of Qriavanoe During Working houra...Unlon Representative, investigation of Qrtevanco After Working Horn- Bargaining
Commltteo....................
Labour * Management Monthly
Moating......................,
Employaa’s Compensation for Loan of Tima Bank of Hours..
S
9 8:03

			
Disciplinary Action.....
Ik Seniority
Oeilnad.................
Probationary Emptoyasa Use of Seniority
HttMHtHIMH
mNNWuHMniiHwm«
.. 9	8:04
9	8:08
.. 9	8:08
.. 0	E07
.. to	8:03
	8:09
	8:10
	
. tt	8:11
. tt	8:12
. 11	8:13
. 11	8:14
. 12	8:14A
. 12	8:15
. 12	8:18
. 12	9:01
. 12	9:02
. 13	9:03
It
Arttcto
Pege Pat*.
Retention of

14	9:04
Accurauletton of..,,........... 14 fc08
Seniority Groupings "A* < “B". 14	9.-06
LMs-Posting 4Mt4**T>**t ...... 14 9:07
Employe*! In Armed Forcee..... 14 6:08
Reference Ou» to Factory Injuries	18	909
Supervisor* Returned to
BergelnfngUnlt	18 9:10
X Lay>Off and Recall
Department Layoff................. 18 10:01
Went WWt Layoff MHMtMiMtlllNUMMMI 18	10:02
Departmental Job Choices When
Employee Affected by Layoff---- 18	10:03
Plant-We Job Choice* when
Employee Atfeoted by Layoff---- 16	10.04
Choice Left to Last Employee
Affected by Plant Wide Layoff.. 18	10:08
Notice of Layoff................ 18	10:06
Meeting with Union on Major
Layoff*......................... 17	10:07
Order of Recall................. 17	10:08
Recalled Employee Ming to Report
Laid Off or Receded Employee refuting Job Offer Employee'* Plant-Wide Seniority
Transferred to New Job_,_.,_,_ Preference for Previous Job
XI	Transfers
AppHoanteftor •HNNHIHNMMIHNMI
Time Unit on Job Poetlng Tamparwy Job* not Potted...
Procedure..................
Reassigned Job ...........
XII	Leave of Abtence
1710:09
17	10:10
18	10:11 18 10:12
18 11:01 19 11:02
19	11:03
20	11:04
21	11:08
For Spedflo Reaeon*............ 21 12:01
Ou* to Stokneee or Injury...... 21 12:02
Article,	Pag* Pm.
Selected as an Officer or Representative of the
International Union.............. 22	12:09
Due to Pregnancy................. 23	12:04
Rsprasentalive attending Conventions or Municipal Duties.... 24	12:09
XIII WAGES
Description of Wage Rates...... 24	13:01
Management Determining Method
of Procedure..................... 24	13:02
Review of Standard Predict by
Union Representatives............ 26	13:03
Establishment of Future
Piecework Rates.................. 26	13:04
(A) 60 TUHR Expeotanoy............ 28
(6)	89 TUHR Limit (100 TUHR
Opportunity-Clean time card-). 28
(C)	M/L Payment up to an 80 TUHR. 26
(D)	M/L Payment to an 80 TUHR
(Prase Operation}.............. 26
(E)	Establishment of Piecework
Rates from Accumulated Data.... 26
(F)	Payment when Rets Changes.... 26
(G)	Payment of A.8.T.H.E.
Piecework Operations Whan
no Piecework Rate Established ~ 28 Computation of Earnings on Daily Beals...................    27	13:06
(A)	Application of Job Hourly
whom A£.T.H.E. Paid............ 27
(B)	Calculation of Job Hourly Umtt wham Two or More Jobs
Worked......................... 27
(C)	Combination Incentive-Job
Hourly Rated Operations	27
Fatigue Factors.................. 27	13:06
Allowance for Lunch Time......	27	13:07
W
Article
Pag* Para.
ChangM Affecting Old Piecework
Rataa	27	19.00
Minimum Rate Payment.......— 28 13:09
Temporary Plaoawork Rataa ~
WhenUead HH*f M niiMMMNImihinmh	28	1*10
Tampowy Plaoawork Rataa ~
Method a/Eatabiiahmant............ 28	13:11
Pooling of Piecework Rataa IHHNMlI	28	1*12
Minimum Rataa for Non-
Production Tima.................. 29	13:13
Utilization of MachMa Limitation
.......................   29	13:14
Parmanant Plaeawork Rate
Changa........................... 29	1*18
(A) Due to Changa In Mathoda,
Matarfala, ate			29	
(B) Duato Ctertaal or Mathemattoal Errora				29	
(C) Qua to Rcqunt by Employee or Tin iinlon*i*«*iH»****»***'»*■<••**■«**•«	29	
(0) Oua to Raqueat by Employee or tha Union (Rataa Prior to lfl/54)		29	
Paymant of a Company Tranafarrad Employee	.....—...	29	13:18
Paymant of a Tranafarred Employee Qua to No Wort		30	13:17
Paymant of Unuaval Condltlona Not Covarad by tnoanthra Rataa	30	13:16
Nonpayment of Loat Tima		30	13:19
Paymant of Loat Tima ~ Employer’! Raqueat		30	13:20
Tima Wagas Paid to Employee On Night Shift,		31	13:21
(A) Time Wagea Paid to Employaa During Plant Shutdown				31	
(B) SIlOltFiy irntlimillMmOHNHHMNnM	31	
Training of Tima Study Engineer....	31	13:22
Arttol#	Pag* para.
QwwaJWagaJftONMM'............... 31	13^3
(A) Effective MARCH 9,1993........ 31
(0) Effective JUNE 1,1904 ........ 31
(C) Effective JUNE 1,1908 ....... 92
(0) Interim Inoreaa# Formulae.... 32
(6) Incentive Rated Employees iMKIh 32
Night Shift Premium.............. 32	13:24
Shift Premium Exclusion........ 92	13:38
XIV Hour# of Work
Production	33	14:01
NoQuaiantaaof.................. 39	14:02
Pay Week Defined riMHNNmti .... 33	14;03
Work Day Oeflnad............... 33	14:04
Shift Starting Defined......... 33	14:00
Regular Working 8oh#dula....... 33	14:00
Remand Lunch Parlode Hourly
Rated Employ###*...........34	14:07
Root and Lunch Periods -
incenpv* Ratad Employees....... 34	14:08
Time of R#«t and Lunch Period. 34 14:00
Wa*b*Up Tim# ■ l|MM Hit* M (•» MMHHHHh 39 14:10
XV	Whge PoBdas tor Special Condltlona
ShowerTlme*Ceruln Operator™... 39 19:01
Report In Pay................. 39 19:02
Factory Injurloa 1llna<<UHIIH1Hil>Mninn 98 19:03
Meal Allowance................... 38 19:04
Jury Duty..................... 37 18:08
Union Representatives on Safety
Commit!##........................ 37 18:06
Compassionate L#av# and
Payment....................... 37 19:07
XVI	Overtime
Defined - Producffon Employees.. 37 18:01
On Saturday...................„ 38 16:02
On Sunday..................... 33 16:03
Cooperation In Preforming
Nacestary Ovanime..........as 16:04
Statutory Holiday Considered Part of Work Weak	38 16:09
vl
Article	Peg# Per*.
No Offsetting of Overtime Work  38 18.06
Cell In Pay..................... 38 16:07
Where Not Paid.................. 30	16:08
No DouMe Compensation tor
Same Houreot Work............... so	1600
XVII	Holiday Pay
Recognised Statutory Holidays
and Pay When worked.............. 38	1701
QuaMoationefOr Payment and
Method of Payment................ 40	17:02
Palling During Vacation.......... 42	17:03
Palling During Shutdown or
Sunday..........................   42	17:04
Palling on Saturday.............. 42	17:06
XVIII	vacations
BglMftyandPay	42	18#1
(A)	For Employees with Less Than
One (1) Years service......... 42
(B)	Definition of Total Eamlnga. 43
(C)	Minimum Vacation Pay In Cue
of Sickness	43
(Of Plflh A Sixth Weak Vacation are
Optional...................... 43
Employee Leaving Employment
of Company lilt....	44	tsun
Time and Pay	44	18:03
Vacation Period.................. 48	18:04
Postponement of Vacation........ 48	18:06
Employee woridng hie Vacation
Period	46	18:08
XIX	Msceilaneous
Union Notlcaa................... 48	19:01
Health and Safety............... 48	t9:02
Reference to Both Genders....... 48	19;03
Average Straight Time Hourly
Banting*........................ 47	19:04
Notification of Union
Repreeentettvee................. 47	19:08
vli
Pagt Pan.
AiKoia
Supervisor's Partarming Production Woric_n_____
Provision of CavwaNs
Company Tralnaaa on Production
Equipment......................
Relief tor Personal Needs......
OiadpHrta Notices...............
Definition of "WorWng Days".....
Guaranteed Minimum 4 Weeks Altar Transfer «*«■(
INImHMHHNmmimiihi
letters Form Part of Agreement.. Mold Installer Advance.......
XX Amendments
Amendment to Agreement XXI Duration end Termination
Duration, Termination
Commencement cf Negotiation..
Latter to Union Re: Lost Tims Lettsr to Union Re: Msdtcal Center
. 47 19:06 . 47 19:07
. 48 19:08 . 48 19. 00 . 48 19:10 . 48 19 :11
. 48 19:12 . 49 19:13 49 19:14
49 20:01
49 31:01 61 Until 82 Uritt
Letter to Union Re: Temporary
Transfers.........„....«,........ 63 Unli3
Letter io Union Re: Lost Time Due
To Bolter Failure............... 94 LMf4
Letter to Union (to; Opportunity to
Earn Up To 100 TUR............. 68 Lir#B
Letter to Union Re: Overtime ........ 66 Ltr46
Letter to Union Re; Maintenance
Overtime....................... 87 Ltr#7
Latter to Union Re: Safety Shoes.. 60 LtrM Letter to Union Re: Gloves..... 61 Ltr#S
Lettsr to Union Re: Maintenance
Tradesmen........................ 32	UrPio
tetterto Union Re: Coveralls,
Rainwear, Rubber Soots........... 63	Ur#ll
Latter to Union Re: Incentive
Jobe to Hourly Rates............. 64	Ur#i2
Letter to Union Re: Weekend Chew Conditions....................... 68	Ur*13
vlli
Employment For Disabled
Employee...................... 06	LM/14
Letter Temporary Transfer.... 07	LMH9
Task Force..................   08	UrOlO
Letter Temporary Transfer/
Production Supervision.......   a	Ltr#17
Latter of Understanding....... 70	Ltrlifl
It la understood and agreed that the attached April 16, 1990Wage Schedule 'A' and the Skilled Trades Agreement form a part of the Memorandum of Agreement.
Article Index
Page
Add# l
Eligibility for a Regular Benefit..........169
Article II
Amount of BanaMa^,....................166
Article III
Credit Unite 6 Duration of Benefits...173
AddoiV
Application A Determination of Eligibility..... 178
Article V
Administration d aie Plan and
Apprit Procedure .......................  180
Adda VI
Rnenolel Previsions........................1M
Article VII
Conditions b Effectiveneea and
Continuation of Plan......................198
Adels Vlii
Miscellaneous.............................199
Adda IX
Definitions	201
Article X
duration and Termination..................206
x
TW# AGREEMENT mad* and anttrad Into this 8th day of March 1883,
BY AND BETWEEN QENCORP CANADA INC.
of WaNand, Ontario. hanafnaftarmtorrsd to aa th* Company,
AND
LOCAL UNION NO. 488, UNITED RUBBER, CORK, UNOUSUMANO PLASTIC WORKERS OF AMER* IGA, APbCIO’CLC,
of WoHand, Ontario, haralnafter roforred to aa ths
Union.
ARTICLE 1 Purpose
1:01 It it too mutual dealr* of both partita to promote co>oparalfon and harmony and to provide an amicable method of aattHng any diffaraneaa or grievance* wMeh may aria*.
1:08 8houM th* Company find itaalf In financial diffc ctilty tt wW dlaeuea or ravlaw aamo with too aocradttad rapneaerriafew of to* Union.
Th* Company ah*H g)v« dx (0) month* node* to too Union Many proposed ratooatlon of toe plant or any part thereof.
ARTICLE II Recognition
2:01 The Company racognlzaa tha Union as the atria and axcluafva coUaedva bargaining agency for all to* *mploy«ea of the Company employed in and about the Oompany* manufacturing piant loeatad at WaNand, Ontario, Canada, save and except shift foreman and torafadlM, and aH pawn* abova to* tank of shift forth 1 ^
man and foraladiaa, all salaried office staff, salaried laboratory staff, trainees and watchmen,
2:02 The Company agrees to meat with and bargain with the accredited representatives of the Union an matter* pertaining to ratea of pay, houre of work and working condition*. *
ARTICLE 111 Oleorirolnatlon
3:01 Both the Company and thsUnlonagresthatthera shall be no discrimination or Intimidation of any sort practiced by slthar representatives ot theManagsme nt or representatives of the Union because of membership or non-membership in die Union.
3:02 Thera shall be no discrimination against any employees on aoccuntotaex, age, race, colour, creed or mtfonaJ origin.
ARTICLE IV Management
4:Q1 The Company has the sole right to manege the buitaata, aparata the plant and direct the working forces, Including (ha right to him, suspend or rflaohmaa tor Just cause, promote, demote, tranaferorlay-off, prwfdadthat the Company shall not use these rights In conffletwlth any of the provisions of this agreement,
ARTICLE V Union Security
3:01 Aea condition of employment, any employee who It a member of the Union in good standing on the thirtieth (30th.) day following the effective data of thle agreement shall maintain hie membership In die Union, and any employee hired on or alter the effective dote of We agreement or transferred into the bargaining unit, shall become a member of ilia Union following his hire or 2
trawler Into ft* Bargaining Unit and shall maintain membership; and notfater than the thirtieth (30Kr.) day Mowing the affective date of Mb agreement all employees in tti« Bargaining Uidt who am not membetn of the Union shall become members at the Union and ahafl maintain membership as a condition of employment.
A)	The above provisions shall apply for the life of this agreement
B)	The above provisions shall not apply to any am* ployiwln the Bargaining Unltto whom membership in the Union la denied or whose membership therein has bean terminated for wasont other than the failure of auch employee to tender or pay to the Union the amount of periodicdueeunHoimly required ae a condition of acquiring or retaining Union membership.
8:02 Any empwyeertired on or after the effective date of Ms agreement shell become a member of the Union, and ha shall, as a oondHton of employment, maintain his Union mtmberehip to the extent of paying membership due*.
M3 Any dbpuhaiislngea loan employed membership fn the Union shaft be subject tor the Grievance Procedure.
9:04 "Memberof theOntonTwhereuaed herein means
any employee who lea member of the Union and Is not more then three (3) months In smsars In the peymert of Union duee or assessments.
AffTfCUSVI
Deduction of Union Dues
6:01 the Company wHI deduct toe authorized Union duea and aaeeeamenfa from the ssoond pay received in each calendar month by each employee In the Bargaining Urdt, or fram any benefits paid under the Supplemental Unemptoymant Baneffta Plan whichever la applicable,
3
and remit add deductions to tho Treasurer of Local 499, URCLPWA, within tan (10) day* of the deduction. An employe# who hesnopay or who daat nothavc sufficient earning* to pay hla Union duea In thoaacond pay period, wW h«r# hfa Union du#a deducted from hie following pay In which he ha* cuffioiem earning* to make the deduction. These deduction* wWlwInduded In thetallowlngmonth’9 ramManoo. It an employ** la employed for lea* than thirty-two <32) hours fn any on* month, ha ahail not be required topayUnlondueator that month, unleaachangad by die constitution oftti* United Rubber, Cork, Unoleum and Pisano Workers of Amstfca, One* each month tire Company will give the Treasurer the Mowing Information'.
A)	A record of names, clock numbers and amount from whom pay deductions have been made.
B)	A list of the employees who have signed assignment or autlwriiation forms, from whom no deductions have been made widi ths reason whether may did not have aufltoient wages on the seaond pay period of the month, or whether they had left tha employ of the Company end date of termination or transfer out of the Bargaining Unit
C)	A property titled out ohack-otf carttflcatlcn torm supplied by (he Union,
0)	A properly filled out application for Union Mam> bershtp Card supplied by the Union.
&O2Authortza0ontoUnlofldeduct!ons8haUbealQned In triplicate by the employee conoemed end one copy returned to Treasurer of the Union. The following form of
deduction thaH tw supplied to the Company by theUnkm, and shall be used; “I hereby authorize QenCarp Canada I no. to deduct from my pay and the Trustee of the Supplemental Unemployment Benefit Pond to deduct from any benefits paid to me under the Supplemental Unemployment Benefits Ptan, first months duaa, current montitiy Union dues and any unpaid ragular monthly
4
(fun, tor a period not to exceed three (3) months, and approved aaeessments which are established by local Union No. 488, and to be checked off In accordance with the Agreement, Mid dues to bo turnod over to tho TieaeutarofUxialNo.46B. Thlaaaalgnmentandauthorl-zatlon shall be Irrevocable In accordance with tho provf-elon* of Paragraph &0S of ihoCotloodvo Labour Agree* moot batsman tho Union ond tho Company.
Signature ..	_................_	.
Addraas
Clock Card No .
Date	...... _	_
ft03 The assignments ond authorizations once ax* cutod shall bo Irrevocable lor tho duration ot this agreement or any renewal thereof, provided that if the termination of (Mo Agreement or aby renewal thereof Is followed by the execution of anewogroomont, these assignments and suthorl2adone shall be deemed to be automatically renewed tor the duration of such new agreement.
6:04 Thelinlon shaft Indemnify andeavethe Company and/or tha Trusts* of tha Supplemental Unamptoyment Beoem Fund harmleaa from any daima, auks, judgments, attachmsntaand from any other farm of flehityasaftsuft of the (tompeny and/or the Truateeot the Supplemental Unemployment Baneltt Fund making any deductions in accordance with the foregoing authorizations and assignments, and theUnloowW refund direct to alt amploy-eae from whom a wrongful deduction was made
8.08 Should the Union at any tone cease to be the authorised bargaining agent of the Employees of tha Company, any due* heldby theCompany shailbe repaid to the individual employee torn whose pay such dues were deducted.
6
ARTICLE VII Slrlk# and Lockout
7:01 The Union agrees that mere shall be no strike, partis) or complete, picketing, slowdown or stoppage of work, so tong a* this Agreement oontlnun to operate.
7.02 The Company agree* there shall benoloc tout so long aa this Apr^e^nttgieeto operate.
Grievance Procedure
0:01 A Bargaining Committee consisting of not more than live (5) member*, ad of whom shall bo regular amptoyMawfflteMeast one (1) year's seniority with the Company, shall be selected by the employees of the Company, and ihe Company shall be kept inform toby the Union of the Personnel of this Commute*.
8:02 The grievance, In order to receive consideration, must be baaed on a cteftned violation at tome right •atabdshad by tM* Agreement The Grievance muat begin to be praoeaaed through the procedure within fifteen (1B) days of fht event occurring that la the basis fortheoomptont, or within fifteen (isidayoof the time that the Individual was aware of the Incident, or should have been aware of the Incident The Grievance must be submitted In accordance with tha fallowing procedure: Rap #lThe Employee and/or tha Steward, shall discuss a grievance with his Foramen or Forelady. If no settefactoryagreemsntcsn be reached, the grtev-anoe shaft be reduced to writing and two (2) ooples of the grievance will be presented in writing to me Foremen or Fore lady. The Foreman or Foretedy shall render hlsor her written answer to the employee and/or tbs Steward within three
(3)	working days.
A]	Tha written grievance must show the date of pres-sntslfon as well aa the date of alleged violation.
BJSald anawar shall be (Inal unteas within three (3)
working days after receipt thereof by the employee and/ or the Union Steward the written grievance Is taken to 8tep 2 of the Grievance Procedure.
Step Wlfthe Employee and/orths Stewardfall to receive a eatWactory adfustment tarn the Foreman or Forslady, he stall submit the original written grievance to Ihe Genaral Foreman. A meeting shall be heidwIththeGeneralForemanwithintwo
(2)	wortdngdaysaf the time of presentation of the Grievance. The General Foreman will render a written decision within three 0) working days after the date of such meeting.
A)	Said answer shall be final unless within five (S) working days after receipt thereof by the Union Steward the original written grlavanoe la taken to Step 3 of the Grievance Ptooedure.
Step «3lf thi Union Steward fails to satlsfactorlly adjust said griavanca with the General Foreman, ha stall turn the written grievance over to the Union Bargaining Committee. Within five (8) working daya of presentation thereof, said Committee stall mset with the Company's Griavanca Com* miltee, one (1) of whom stall be a representative of the Compisny’s Personnel Department. Piece work rate grievances may be handled by one (1) representative of the Company's Personnel Department or his authorized representative. The Departmental Steward or Chief Steward may be present el said meeting If deemed necessary by the Union Bargafnfng Committee.
A)	Within three (3) working daysaftartheooncluslonof •aid mealing, the Company's Personnel Department representative stall give a written answer to the Union.
8) Said answer stall be final unless within five (6) (writing days after raoalpt thereof by pis Union Bargain* mg Committee, the Union algntflM its Intent In writing to take the Grlavanoe to Step 4 or 8 of the Grievance Procedure.
QOnoe a Griavanca haa been submitted to the Bar*
7
gtinfng Committee It shall fas settled only through ths Bargaining Committee or with the consent and approval ol that Commutes.
Step #4Ths Union may request, In writing, an International Representative to partlotpate In Ihs nego-dailonofseld Grievance. Such meeting between ths Company Personnel Department Representative and four (4) other Company representative*, ft desired fay ths Management, but fn no case lass than two (2) Company rapneenta* ttvea, and the Union Bargaining Committee Including the International Union Representative present, shell be held within ten (ID) working daysof the timsof presentation of theGrievanc* Piece Work Rate Grievances maybe handled by one representative of the Company's Personnel
Department or Ms authorized representative.
A)	Within three |3) working days after die conotualon of
aaldmeeUngiheCompan/s Personnel Department representative shall give a written answer to the Union.
B)	Unteas otherwise mutually agreed, said answer shall b* final unless within two (8) working days after the na« regular scheduled Union Membership masting either party eigniflas by written notice Ita intention to arbitrate the dispute.
Step ltd Arbitration • should either party signify by written notice to the other party He intention to arbitrate foe dispute, it ahati name Ita arbitrator. Within ten (to) days alter receiving such notice the other party shall designate Ita arbitrator fn writing. The two (2) Arbitrators so designated shad, If possible, within five (5) days, but In all cases within ten (10) days, select ■ third Arbitrator who shall be Chairman. If die appointees have not agreed upon athlfd member ofths Board within ten (TO) days, they shell request the Mnister of Labour of ihe Provinca of Ontario to nominate a Chairman.
A)	Notwithstanding the provisions of this clause either party may make application under Section 40 of the
a
Ontario Labour Rotations Aot for a single Arbitrator,
*03 Each party stall pay the coeta end expenses ol its appointees and tie ooete and expenses of the Chair, man shall be borne equally by the parties.
fcMNoauch Arbitration Board shall have any lurledic-tiontoaltar,ohings,oramsridanyoltheprovislon*oftN» Agraemsrt, or to make any decisions Incoruristont with foe provlstone of this Agreement The Arbitration Board staflnotheveeufooritytottotormlrwaqueailonlnvoiving the General Wage Level.
B;» The decision of a majority of such Board of Arbitration shad ba final and binding on both parties.
&08 No grfavancaor dispute may baaubmttcd to the sanwArWratton Board by ihtUnlon or foeCcmpany less then tan (to) days before the hearing Is to be held.
&07 Any employee who has attained seniority, found to be unjustly given a written reprimand or discharge or suspension shah be reinstated to hie formariobsnd shall be oompenseied et hie sversga straight time hourly earnings for the time lost as a result of to# Incident, teas fray for any penalty time decided upon provided the employee Wee a written grievance of suoh written reprh mand or discharge or suspension wilh the Company within live (8) working days from the data othit discharge oreuspeneton. Htta Bargaining Committee so desire, il may prooesa foa grievance immediately, starting at Step P3 of the Grievance Procedure.
8.*O7(0) With respect to e probationary employee a designated Union Steward will be present during the assessment and ftePraeident will be present at the point ol release.
Should the probationary Employee be st the end of their probationary period and the Union President Is not avail-
9
able to handle tha release, Ihe probationary period will automatically be extended until such tlnw as tha Preal* dantlsavalwbla.
8:06 in tha avant than la an Interruption in plant operation baeauaa of a strike, slowdown, picketing or other act Ift violation o? Article VII of bite Agreement, tha Company and die Union shall not oonakter tea merits of any dispute norahall any arbitration proceed or continue until weft Urns at the Interruption has been terminated.
&09 in tha avant of a dtepute between tha parties involving a rate or standard la appealed to Step #4 of the Grievance procedure, the Company, upon receiving written request from the Union, wl permits qualified Tima Study Engineer, approved by the International Union, to enter tha Plant for tha purpose of making studies of tha rata or standard In dispute In order that the Union maybe In a position to proparty present Its case to me Employer for further negotiations or to tha Arbitration Board tor determination. An Employer's Time 8tudy Engineer shall be present during such studies or observations by the Union Time 8tudy Engineer.
A)	Such UntorvSpcnscred Time 8tudlee, described in 8:09 above, must be made wHNn six (8) months cf the date the relevant grievance wee filed, otherwise the said grievance shell automatically be voided.
ftlOUponaetttamant of any grievance with respect to pay or rate Increase, any adMrimenl baaed on such grievance shall ba made retroactive to tha date that the rata or rate ohartge became affective, providad the grievance Is tiled within seven (7) working days after the rate change became affective otherwise the retroactive data •halt ba tha date the grievance was Wad.
A) The maximum parted of retroactivity shall not ex* oead ninety (90) days unlau the |ob, which te the subject of the grievance has not been performed in the sixty (80) day period immediately preoedlng the data of the time
10
study, to whfohrraw the maximum period of retroactivity •hall t» six (6) months.
8:11 Intha event It becomes necessary tortheSteward or Chief Steward (1) to leave tils place of work for Hie purpoet of Investigating a grievance in a Department or Departments ovsr which hs has Jurisdiction, he wilt report to trie Foramen and Ktvlsa him as to Ns destination. The Staward or Chief Steward (0 wffl report to the Foreman of the Department where the alleged grievance originated. In the event the representative is on a job that attooto the produetton of an Employee or group of Employees, the Foreman wn make the necessary arrangements to reHsve the representative. The representative will remain an the job until suah arrangements can be made. The Union Preeldentorhta designated wpraaen-taflve (a member of tha BargaMng Committee) and one other member of the Bargaining Committee or the Chief Staward {who haa department jurisdiction) shall ba allowed to iiweatigatoegrievanoeorcomptalnt-plant-wlde.
Inal) cases, each of the abovadeelgnated personnel shall report to Me Foreman immediate^ upon Ms return.
8:12 Any member of the Bargaining Committee shall ba pennHtad to enter tha planttarflte purpose of making an imraiMgatton of any grievance, and upon raquaat aha! ba furnished a pass permitting entrance to the plant for such purpose,
8.-13 Theraahell be one (I) regular meeting between the Companyandthe Bargaining Committee eachmonth.
8:14 An employee who toe designated Unran Representative aha! be eompenaeted tor time lost during itto regular shift when Time Studying In the plant as a result of e piecework rate grievance processed Into Step S3 of the Grievance Procedure or a practice study for a maximum period of tan (10) working days In any one (1) yssr or If attending a scheduled grievance and negotiation
meeting with the Company representatives. The rata of pay stiall be averaQestmght time hourly earnings. The total liability of the Company tor payment of Union Rap* raeentedvea shall be the maximum of ten (10) hours par wash par one hundred (100) employees, the number of emptoyoes to be founded to the next one hundred (i 00) tor the purpose of oaloulaton,
(A)	The position of Union President wVI be recognized by the Company as toll time. The rate of pay win be thm of the eleotrtolan tor 44 hours per week at straight time. The Union President Is expected to participate in Company meetings as required.
0:18 if the Bargaining Committee so desire, it msy prooees a dispute, starting at Step #3 of the Grievance Procedure. The dispute, in order to receive consideration, wil| be presented in writing and must be based on a claimed violation of some right established by this Agreement.
&16 Whan an employee Is brought into the office on a matter likely to result In a reprimand, orother disciplinary action, such employee shall ba reminded of his right to have Union Representation In (he presence of a union official.
ARTICLE IX Seniority
fcOI The principle of seniority is to give preference to employees covered by this agreement in the matter of promotions, demotions, Isyofto, and reortUngalter layoff* in aoeordanoe with their length of continuous service, baaed upon a combination of plant wide and departments! seniority.
9:02 No seniority rights era recognized during the first three (3) months which shall be the probationary period ofthenawamptoyaae. The Company shall have the right to transfer or otherwise terminate toe service of new
employee* during theirpnobalJorriry pariodw/thoutpreju-dioe to Itself. On completion of the probationary period aenlortty shall extend back to data of hire,
Where warranted the probationary period may be extended by mutual agreement between the Company and the Union fn advance oftha scheduled expiration of the employee'* probation period.
A) A probationary employee who la laid off or whoa* ■arvlcafs* terminated whit* on leave of absence due to fllneee or injury and ia.rehiwd wftftin a twelve (ta) month period shall accumulate service for the time worked and It shall be cmXM to Ms probationary service.
9.03 Seniority wi be broken for the following reasons'.
A) Voluntary termination of employment by the employee.
0)	Discharge for just oeusa no} reversed by the Grievance Procedure.
C)	Failure of ttieempioyee to notify the Company of his Intention to return to work within three (9) working' days after notice he* been sent by registered man by theCampany to the laid off employee and failure of the employee to return to work without reaeon-atria amuae within seven (7) daye after euch notice has barn sent by the Company. Notice to return to work shall be sent to the last address on the oompeny'a records of the laid off employee, it shall be dm employes's reeponalMffy to nobly the Company o< changes In address.
OAcoapIng other employment or sett-employment while on leave of absence, except due to ill health and under (motor's orders and confirmed by me company's doctor.
E)	Out of active aervlce with the company for any reason beyondfwelve (12) month* except as otherwise provided for in thte agreement.
F)	Ovsmt*ymgfeav*<rfat»encewl1hoirta reasonable
excuse.
<3}FaNufe to report absence bom work for three 13
working days without reasonable excuse.
1)	Upon receipt of the employee's roaion for ab* ■ones tarn work and within the tlma period specified In Me sub-section, the Company shall notffy the employee at the last address on the company's records that his reason for absence was unacceptable.
H) Acceptance of a Service Award.
rortwo(2j years, a mhot employee witn two (zj years or more seniority shall accumulaiesenlorlty as per clause 9:06 and shall be eligible for recall for five (S) years.
9:03A) 8srtforfty Shan accumulate torsevsrr (7) mcnlhs, provided such seniority accumulation shall not exceed Ida actual service at time of layoff.
B)	An employee with five (S) or more years seniority at time of layoff will be entitled to accumulate seniority to a maximum period ot fifteen (19) months,
9:09 The job classifications In the plant are divided into two (3) seniority groups Aand Baa outlined mSohedufe *A" of this Agreement,
9:07 Senlorily Data shelf be posted In each department of the plant every three (3) months, The Union ahull be femlthad with seven (7) copies of these seniority lists. Any contemplated change In the structure of a department will be dlieusaed with the bargaining committee.
9:08 Employ set who leave the employment of the Company to enter the Country's Armed Forest shall be grantedafeeveofabsanoeuntuauehtlmeaaservfcewilh the Armed Forces Is terminated. Seniority will seems undersuch leave, provided the employes makes application for his fob within thirty (30) days after receiving
14
Honourable Discharge, and provided Uie employes le capable of performingth* work required rf his Job. The Company wlH makeevsry effort to place employees who have become handicapped during such sendee.
9:09 Any employ*# who suffer* a serious Injury or Impairment (ram hie employment with the Company, which results In permanent disability, and he la unable ta continue working on hlsown operation, the Company will endeavour to place him on a suitable Job tor whfoh he la qualified and capable of performing In accordance with his seniority. Onoe so placed seniority may be waived in the esse of other employees displacing such employee.
9:10 Any employee presently In or who has been in what Is now the Bargaining Unit, who transfers to a supervisory position or any.position outside#:* Bargaining Unit directly oomeotsd with the operation of the plant and who hsa had at least three (fc) months' service i n the Bargaining Unitor whet Is now the Bargaining Unit,aha» accrue seniority R ia maximum period of two (2) years, end upon reinstatement shall, consistent wtth his senior* Ky, beplaced Inaecordancewith the terms of Paragraph 10:04 (3) provided he is able tp do the work
ARTICLBX Layoff and Recall
10:01 An employe* with lees then on* (1) year’s continuous service with the Company ihali be laid off on the beets of departmental seniority within his group.
10:02 An employ as with one (1) or more year’s continuous service with the Company shall be laid off on the basis of plont-wtda seniority. 8uoh employs* affected, If quallflad, shad have the right to the job held by the employes with the least seniority In the plant.
A) II he Is not qualified to displace the employe* as stated above he shad, If qualified, displace the employes
18
with the leMssnlorlty In the Production unit. If he doss not qualify for the job how fay the employee with the least service In ths Production Unit, hs shall ha laid off and provided ha has ona 0) or mors year’s service will be entitled to S.U.B. payments.
10:03 When due to lob abolishment or ourtaWment of production necessitating a reduction of on employee on a job the employee affected and qualHIed shall be given the Moating choice of Jobs but only In the order Hated below.
1)	A vacancy in both groups within his department
2)	A vacancy In one group within hie department and the |ob held by the employee with the leest seniority In the other group.
3)	Ths Job held by ths employee with the iaast seniority In etthsr group wltWn Me department.
Should a vscancy exist In arotfwr department at ths time of layoff It shall postsd, howevar, no subsequent vacancies will require posting.
10:04 An employee to be displaced from We group within hie department shall If qualified, be given the following choice of Jobe but only (n Reorder Dated below;
1)	A subsequent vacancy In both groups.
2)	Asubtaquemvaoancyinonagroupandthejobheid by tf» employee with ths least seniority In the othsr group wHMn ths plant
3)	The Job held by ths employee with the least seniority In either group within ths plant.
Should a vacancy exist at the time of layoff it shall be posted, hqwsvsr, no subsequent vacanolas wW require posting.
10:05 The emplaysa subsequently affected shall have ths right to uw Job hold by die employes with the feast seniority In the plant
10:06 When It becomes necessary to lay off employees In the plant in accordance with this Agreement, the
Company wit! give the employees three (3) normal day* notkwar a maximum of three (3) norm el days pay In lieu of natict. The Company will poit a notice stating ihe namaa of the employees being placed on layoff within tha flmt hour of the aMft on day ona of tha three day notice period, which will thenconatHute tha thraaday* of notice. During that shift tha Company will have all amployaaa affertedby saw layofftoaekimledga the teyoff notice ae poatad. fimptoyeea raelgrtng from tha Company aMN give Ota Company seven (7) days notice,
10:0*(B) Should any employee be declared surplus and farced to leave hie ciassHteailort or department in accordance with tha layoff prooedum, it la understood that tha employee may at his discretion tSsplace a weekend work shift employee only If he/she It fully qualffled,
10:07 In the event of a substantial outbade In production Involving lay-offs, tha Company agrees to meet with the Bargaining Committee of the Union to discuss a practical solution to the problem.
10:08 In tha process of recalling after a layoff, the empioyeee having the greatest plant-wide seniority shall have tha first privilege of baing recalled, providing tha lald-off employee has tha necessary qualifications to mart the requirements of the |ob.
l&OBAMfroff employeewhefUeto report toraworfc assignment without a reasonable excuse when recalled wftl be oontklered a voluntary quit.
10:10 if, due to job abolishment or curtailment id production, theemployeelstrenrferred to a job for which he la qualtfled to perform, and he refuses to accept such job, he will be considered a voluntary quit. If a lald-off employee Is recalled to a Job tor which he Is qualified to perform, and ha refuses to accept auch job, ha will be
considered a voluntary quit,
10:11 An employee's plant wide seniority shall be transferred with Wm from Job to Job.
10:iaForapertod of twelve (12) months following an employee's tranafer laanotherjoto within hi# department tr to another dspartmsnt or reoalftaajob other than the one held at the time of Ms/ayoff shall, oomlstantwlth hie •enlority, have the preference to return to hie former job before any job vacancies are posted pravldedthathohas a minimum of *i»t (6) mcMhe seniority and Wsapplioailon to return to his former job la on file. This application ta return to hie former job shad remain on active file for a period of one (f) year.
To qualify for this preference the employee must make written apportion to the, Personnel Department wfihln fourteen (14) days of Ms transfer or reeall or prior to ihe expiry date of the ft rat posting of Ms former Jobif such posting la earlier.
10:13 A preferred lay-off mey be offered when there la a epecKIc reduction i n a given product cods, thus Impact-Inga spadflo produotlon area within a department for a maximum of six (8) weeke, after which Artlole x, of the Collaotlve Labour Agraamant will be Implemented An employee maytaka a voluntary lay-off and become a person with sonority right* to recall after lay-off to hie group) department or dasWcatlon, Employees will be allowed twenty-tour (24) hours from notification <f lay-off ta daolda f they are going to take the voluntary lay-off. Employee# will be askedln Inverse ordsrofthalreenorlty.
ARTICLE XI Tranefere
11:01 EmptoyeeimayflleappllcaHonfortnansferlntfie event a vacancy occurs or a new Jab Is created. Ths filling of job vacancies sltalt be accomplished through ths job 18
potting procedure. The senior applicant with basic minimum puaJIffcatona will deselected, The successful applicant shall be moved to his new classification within tuwnly (SO) working daya, (provided the replacement^) latere telly trained on the Job(s) being vacated.) An employee not moved to his new classification within the time period noted above shall be pate the 100 true unit hour of me new job or hie Mirage hourly earnings, whichever Is the greater.
1 n the event dial new Jobe am created employees wi be notified as soon as possible. The Company will provide the employees with a description of the necessary quail* ilcatione and skills. H additional, educational requirements are a pre-requlelte, tuition funding will be provided tor both night school orday release classes under theCo* operative Education Program.
11:02 A) Notices of job vacancies will be posted tor three (3) working days. Only written applications made by theempfoyeeeandsubmltted to tot Company Personnel Department during the time the Jobaara posted will be considered. When multiple Jobs are posted, empfoyese may Indcate on the Job posting form, their choice of Jobe In tlw order of preference.
B)	in the week Immediately preceding an employee's vacation period or authorised leave of absence an eligible employee may file a written application and •ubnttltto the Company Personnel Department fora|ob that may be potted during theperlod of absence speeded In Me paragraph. Upon toe employee's return to work suoh written application shell be autometioalfy cancelled.
11:03 Temporary jobs will not be posted. Temporary Jobe am:
1.	Jobs of three (3) weeks duration or less.
2.	VaoenoiaeaeatedbyAitlcleXU-Leave of Absence.
3.	Vacancies created by Article XVtH • Vacations.
(A)	When It becomes necessary to temporarily transfer an employee under toe conditions of 11:03, the
Company will transfer srnployaas qualified toparform the work required.
Intheoaeeol the employe* fllllngth* vacancy created by tfjelUMW* of Absence, Paragraphl 0:02 wM apply to that employe* upon completion of said Nrave. An employee transferred at die request of (fie Company shaM return to the Job from which he transferred upon completion of the job required.
11 :Q4 Job vacancies created by requested transfers must not exceed two transfers In any one (l)cfralnwHWn the department or plant. Any vaoarwy creeled after two
(2)	trenefers shall be tilled et the option ol th* Company.
A) An employee refusing to accept the Jab assigned to him as a result of hie request lor transfer shall forfeit al righttothejobfromwMchhetnnfferred. He will be sent to the Personnel Department end given hie choice of avaUebM jobs ttat he la qualified to pwlomt. Mnojobaare available, he wiN belaid off.
S)An employes assigned to a job gg a result of a requested transfer, who falls to perform satisfactorily on the new job or who Ir determined unqualified shall be given Ms choleeof available Job openings If he Is qualified to perform the work required, cf ho may bereiumed tohls farmer job or placed on another(ob In accordance with the seniority regutstiona of this agreement, if qualified, otherwise, he shall belaid off.
C)	An employee shell be limited to two (2) requested tranefere ki a two (2) year parted. An employee with less then one (1) year of continuous service with (he company shall not be eligible tor a requested transfer.
OJIfen employee requests a transfer in accordance with the Job BlddingPraeadureoutilrwdinthlspBraoraph and the Job Is curtailed or abolished.thlslobbfd shall not constitute a bid as defined in Paragraph 11:04 (C).
E)An employee recalled to other than his originel group orwhowae forced Into the ether groupbeoause of aiayoffehatlhavetherfghttobldbaaktohfsoriginelflfoup and tills will not conatitute a bid sidelined In Paragraph 11:04 |C).	_
11:08 hi the event a Jobtt reassigned (ram one department to another, the employees affected wilt be given a choice to transfer with the fob or remain i the department should the job be a combination Jobpnd the major pardon of the combination job Is reassigned to another department, the employee# affected wil be given a choice to transfer with the job or remain In (he department. Sen lorflywffl apply in thedepartment to which such job !■ reassigned.
ARTICLE XII Leave of Absence
12:01 An employee wishing a Leave of Absence for a period of more than two (2) weeks shell make written application to the Personnel Department. If granted, such leaveshaUbeln writing andabopy furnished tothe Union. A Leave of Absence will normally not exceed thirty (30) days and under no cfrcumetances ninety (SO) days. A Leave ofAbeenoe will not be grantedforeelf-employment or employment elsewhere. The person on leave must return by the expiration date of the leave end upon reinstatement shall, caneietsnt with hta seniority, be placed on his preWoua or comparable work, provided he le able to do the work. Upon reinstatement ha shad receive credit for seniority for IN time he wee on such approved Leave of Absence.
12:02 An employee with more then ninety (90) days seniority but lees than two (2) years' seniority shall be grantsdaLeava of Absence for sieknees or Injury and will ba entitled to accumulate seniority up to the maximum period he is entitled to receive weakly Siokneaa indemnity payments, An employee with two (2) year* seniority but lees than ten (10) years seniority ehall be granted leave of absence forstokness or Injury and win be entitled to aooumuleta seniority foramexlmum period of eighteen (18) montho. An employee who has Iso (10) years or more seniority shall ba granted leave of absence for 21
sickness or ln|uiy and will ba entitled to accumulate seniority tor a maximum period of two (2) yearn. An employee who le unable to return to work following hie entitled accumulated seniority under this section will be retained on the active peymH until he is able to return to his job, or to a Job vacancy provided he la abf* to do the work, In such oaee Paragraph 11:02 of this Agreement wW not apply, The provisions of this section ehall not apply to a female employee who la granted leave of absenoetor pregnancy according to Paragraph 12:04. A csrlfflcate from hia physician to the Company Personnel Department is nsosssaiy from an employee requiring a leave of absence or returning to work from such leave of absence, in addition, ons week's notice to return to work shell be required. The person on leave must return to work by the expiration date of (ha leave and upon reinstatement shall, consist eh! with his seniority, be placed on Ms previous or comparable work provided he la able to do the work.
An employee who' Is receiving Worker's Compensation bsrtefftsahaU continue to accumulate seniority subject to the provisions of Article IX, Paragraph 9:0312:03 An employee selected tor fuH time duty as an officer or representative of the International U.R.C.LP.WA or Canadian Labour Congress, or Ontario Federation of Labour, wil I upon written application to the Personnel Department ba granted a leave of absence. This Isaveshill before period not to exceed one
(1)	year and will, under ths above condition, be extended upon written application to the Personnel Department. With tfte axcsptlon of a person who Is totally and permanently disabled at the expiration of the leave of absence, any person covered by this provision must make written applloattontorreinsMsmantwtthin twenty (20) days after being released from suoh ftil rime duty. Uponrainetsts-mant he shad, consistent with tbs santortty, be placed on his previous or oomparablt work provided he Is able to do the work, in both cases upon refnetatomenr, he shell
22
receive credit for seniority lor the time he was on such leeve of absence provided, however, that so much lews of absence as exceeds flvs(9) yearsshallnolbecredltsd to his seniority.
ifcO* A) A pregnant employee employed for three months as of the expected date of birth of her child shelf be entmed to up to seventeen (17) weeks maternity leave and each parent shall be entitled to up to eighteen (18) weeks parental leave In acoordanoe with this Arttofe. Pregnancy Itsve may begin no esrilsr than sevtntssn (17) weeks before the expected date of birth. The cm-ptayte must give at least two (4) weeks written rwKoe of the date the leave to to begin and provides certMcatt from a tsgaly quitted medical praotMoner stating the expected data of birth. Noth* may be given w#Wn two (2) weeks stopping work whew the employee slops work ssriy because of eomplicatiorw caused by hr pregnancy.
An employes who intends terraoums empioymentfollow-lng maternity end parental leave shea advise the Corn-
party in writing one month before expecteddata of return.
Parental leave for an employee of 10 weeka leave muet commence when the maternity leave cndaandlnalf other oesee parantet leave must commsnee within thirty Sve (38) wseke of the birth of a child,
B)	Empkryoet who hive been employed for three (3) months are entitled to adoption leave up to eighteen (t 8) weak* each. The adoption leave must commence no mow than eighteen (18) weeks altar the child coma* into custody, oare and control of the parent for the first time. ThssmptoysoshalbsgraniidatsBveofafcasnoetorthe period of time necessary (not to exceed six (i) mantfii) to meat the requirements of adopting a chid.
The employes must ghre the Company at least two (2) woks written notiea of the date the leave ttrio begin unless thechlld becomes fmmerfetely available, in which oese, such leave may commence at such time aa Is mutually agreeable to the employee end the Company.
23
An employee who does not provide written notice to the contrary,ehellb0‘deismadto be returning at the expiration of the maximum allowed under maternity and parental leave.
This proviaion «ha« be oonsletent with the provision under the employment Standards Act and the UIC Act
12:08 Any employee aataoted or elected for Union dutee including Attending conventions cr performing municipal efoodvaduHetehallepply for In writing, and be granted, aleaveofabaanoa nottoexceed two (2) weeks, provided wherever possible the employee et the Union give the Company seven (7) days' notice prior to foe commencement dale of such leave of absence. On hie return, he shall be reinstated to his former Job, His seniority shall accumulate during such leave of absence.
ARTICLE XII!
Wages
13:01 Except as heralnettar provided, the General WageSoaleand various roteacontaJnad therein, such os hiring rates, job hourly rates, best rates, expectancies and limits, tn effect Immediately following the effective date of this agreement, will remain In effect for the life of this agreement
Nothing in thte arttofe ahali be interpreted as prohibiting the Company from placing any Job on a piecework basis.
A)	The established hiring rates, bus rates, job hourly rates, expeotanoiea and tlmfta, ae eat forth in Paragraph 13.-01 above ahatl bs made a part of this agreement and era attached hereto as Schedule *A*.
B)	New established piecework rates on new Jobs or operations within the asms fobclaasIflcatlonwKI carry the same hiring rate, base rata, Job hourly rate, expectancy and lilWtaa iecomma neurata with thoseeatabliahadjobs in effect
13:08 It shall be e function of Management to deter* mine the method of procedure (standard practice) used 24
In performing en operation. Rates shall be estab Ifshed to conform tothla method and procedure.
A copy of tt* standard practice I or a permanent place work rate shall beavallabieln the Department Foreman's Offtee for wvlew upon request by the department employee.
A)	Ali workers than adhere to the standard practice.
B)	The Company shall have the right to time etudy any job at any time.
op	, .	.	.
fog procedure ahaN be followed:
A) The foreman of the department, or a Company representative, shed show a copy of all new permanent standard practices to the Union representative ot the department «o that he may review how the Company wente the job performed. This shell be done prior to the Time Study Department's making a time etudy of the job or operation.
S) The Union representative shall select a qualified employee on hte shift to be studied. The Union Steward wW bepreeent tor duration of the time etudy.
13:04 Future piecework rates shetibe eo established so that an eighty (8(4 trueunlt hour pays not more nor lees foanthejob hourly expectancies eetabBehed by the tarma of this Agreement, and which, together with the procedure for arriving at laid expectancies, era listed In Ihe Schedule "A* of this Agreement,
A)	An eighty (SO) true unit hour shall be the job expectancy of the plant with the exception of Banbury operation! where the Jobexpectanoy will be an eighty-flve (60) true unit hour.
B)	Aninety.ftve (06) trueuntthourehaUbetheplantlimlt except that employees will have the opportunity to earn and be paid In excess of a ninety-live (OS) hue unit hour uptoamaxfmum of onehundred(tOO) true unit hourwlth a dean time card.
30
It fa undamtood and agreed between tha parties signing (hit Coliectlve Labour Agreement that (ha (aim "olean time card* referred to abova shall hava the tallowing Interpretation and meaning:
A dam time card maana any time card (hat dots not contain a job hourly rata payment.
C)	With (ha exception of the opemikma llatad in Para* graph 13:04 (Q), cycle or machine controlled, Individual, group or draw [oba or oparatlona shall be paid machine llmtattan (M.L) up tom eighty (80) (me unit hour whan die machine or cycle capacity dots not allow the unit to pertormatatiuoelghty(ao)untthourorbetter. An eighty
(M)	true unit hour shall pay the expOclancy of the job.
D)	On press operations in the container and plaauo molding (wham machine assignments apply), median)* caljubber goods molding and join block press operator^ whew operators am loaded bmowanirteiy (90) true unit hour, machine Nmltatlon (tf ,L) will be paid up io a ninety (90) trua unit hour or batter, On Etanbuiy opera-dona machine llmltattan (M.L) will be paid at an eighty* five (89) true unit hour.
E)	in the ease of new operations that are tha same as existing operation! on which tha Company hat accumu-Mad data,theptacawoik ratatarsuch operationsmaybe computed from existing data. Tha Union may request a Tima Study check on any new rate so established.
P)	tn the event that a temporary or permanent rata cannot be aetabUahad at Pie uma of a change, the actual measured effective elapsed time of tha element or elements added ahaii be paid tarat the employee's average straight lima hourly earrings untH a temporary or psnma-nsnt rate oan be established.
G)	Allnawptaeawotk operations having no permanent rata or temporary rate shad be paid (or at average straight Uma hourly aamfngs until aptaoawptk rata oan be established on tha job.
1) UtM employee (fees not work at make-out effort, ha ahaH tw paid only his job hourly rate for tha time ha was working on euoh new placawork operation.
as
13.-08 Employe's tamings tor any one day shall not exceed tha job hourly limit as shown m Schedule “A" which Is mads a part of this agreement it is understood that employes'# aamlngs shall bo computed on a dally bads.
A) An employs* transfarrad to another job due to lack of work, job Wd or recall, and who is being paid average straight tima hourly aamlngs on tha job, whoso Job hourly limit Is lower than tha employes'* avarage straight time hourly earnings, Shan receive only tha job hourly limit for thapsrtodoftlmssparitQnthlejobandlnacoordanoawim Paragraph 13:09 above.
6) If during dm shitt an employee It working on two (2) or more jobs whose job hourly rata Is different, the job hourly Mtforaaoh jobmutllpllad by tha number of hours worked on each job will be used to determine the job hourly limit for me day.
C)	If during tha shift an employee la working on an Incentive ratedoperetkmandajcb hourly rated opwation the job hourly lima for the Incentive operation may not apply.
13:09 Fatigue factors deefdad upon by tha terms of this agreement wlti be used aa a gulda in detetmin Ing future fatigue factors to ba allowed In future piecework mas, and are attached hereto aa Schedule "A" which forms a pan of this Agreement.
13:07 Fkra percent (8%) of tha dHfarentW granted between tha job hourly rates andtha job expectancy rates has bean granted In feu of payment for lunch time aa such, and It ie agreed that future piecework ratasshall not oomain any additional auowanoet for lunch time
13.-08 UnH such time aa additional changes are mads m job factors affecting s piecework rate, those jobs or operetonswWch have been ealabllahedprforto January 1st, 1984, will not be changed unless otherwlsemutually agreed. Any chanQtinjob factor madeeftarJanuary tat,,
V
1854in tha aforamentiortsd piecework rate, which affects the piecework rata will result m s complete ra-study ofthe lab or operation and tha re-eetahllehment o( tha piecework rata aa outlined In thfa articla.
A)	Tha aforegoing paragraph shall not conflict with Paragraph 13:14.
B)	The aforegoing paragraph afialf not conflict with Paragraph 13:15 (C).
13:09 Tha minimum rata for aH employ oaa shall ba tha [ob hourly rate of their Job. if aprobatlonaiy employee with one (1) month or lass aarvlca la placed on an Incentive rated job, ha shall receive the hiring rata for the job, or hb actual eamlnge, whichever la tha greater.
19:10 Temporary rataa may ba used on naw jobs and for jobs which are In Ihe process of development. Such rataa shall ba designated aa temporary and an element sheet provided end shell automatically be canceled when a permanent rata fa established.
13:11 Temporary piecework raise shall pay for job conditions, lay-out and affective method prevaing when studying and setting tha rata. Temporary rata* shea not ba used for more than sixty (60} working days for that job.
A) Whan a Tima Study has bean completed on a job
thmweseetabiiahed In accordance with Paragraph 13:04
(Qora temporary piecework rata the following shell
apply,
i) A rate aetebllahed In aocordenoe with Paragraph 13:04 (C) will ba re-established aeatemporarycr permanent piecework rata.
II)	A temporary rate wM be reestablished aa a permanent piecework rate.
13:12 Piecework rataa will bo potted on a rate board to bo provided In each department.
A) Permanent piecework rataa shall become effective after being posted for one (1) working day. This time may be shortened by mutual agreement 28
0} Temporary piecework rates shall become effective In the first working day after they are posted. However, when achange In a permanent or temporary rats may be mads under the pmuMons of Paragraph I3;t9 or Paragraph 13:18, thanaw temporary rate than become effective immedletefy upon posting.
13:13 The guaranteed minimum tor ad non-productive time (Ml be Me |ob hourly rate, wtth the exception of a probatlonery employee wtth one 0) month or tees service whose rata thill ba tha Job hiring rata of his job.
13;U Tima allowed Mr machine or job limitation may be Litiffzecf without (ncrem/no tha total piecework rata
13:18 After a permanent rata hat bean established it will nrri be changed except Mr one of tha following reasons;
A)	The Company makes a change of methods, materials, tools, design or style of product resulting In a ohenoa In tha |ob factor affecting tha rata The rale will be changed to the extent of such change In {ob factor.
B)	Cierlcai andtor mathemetioal errors wffi ba corrected when Miaul. If said errors prove the empMyea's eamfhga haws bean adversely affected, such employee shaft raoeiva not more tfmnamaxJmum of ten<10) working days ratroeo-tlva payment In the amount of tha error.
Q A logMmtte rapuest by the Union for a re-study and the results of the study warrant a change.
0) A request la made by the employee or the Union to re-study old piecework rates (rateseatablished prior to January 1,1084). These lobe will ba restudied and estabMthed under the terms of this agreement.
13:10 Anlnoenfiveor hourly rated employee temporarily transferred at the request of the Company while his 29
regular work Is available shall be paid hlaaveragestralght time hourly earnings, or the rote of the lob transferred to, whichever Is the higher. The same than apply when ha Is requested to perform experimental work.
13:17 When work Is not available on an employee's regular job and he Is offered other work on an hourly rated lob, he shall receive Ms hourly rets for that particular Job to wftloh he Is transferred. If offered work on an Incentive rated job, he ahaU receive the hourly rateforthatiob or his regular hourly rate or Ms actual earnings, whichever Is the greatest
13:18 Employees required to carry on their operation under unusual conditions that are found to exist In material, mechanical, or operation, that am beyond the employee's control, which have not been included In the Incentive rata ormachina limitation, when they we unable to maintain normal output when working at normal epeed (make out effort), shall bebonuaad up to average straight time hourly eamtnge from the time such condition is reported to the department foreman or applicable night shift supervisor, and the condition Is found to exist. The Job may be raetudied end a temporary rate established for ths baianco of the time such condition continued to exist, Should It be found that the unusual condition did not sjdat, the employee will be paid his regular piecework rate,
A) If the employee does not work at make out effort for thefufi shift, hsahMI be paid only his job hourly mteforlhe lime he la working on the unusual condition described above.
13:19 Lost Ume due directly to work stoppages, slowdowns or strikes within the plant shall not be paid for by the Company.
1330 An amptoyae atari! be paid Ms average straight time hourly earnings, for time tost on his operation if called away from same at the employer's request.
30
13:2t When possible, all employees working on the night shift win receive their wages on pay dey before
leaving the plant
A) Provided the payroll department works the week fbttowtng the piani shutdown for the vacation period, an employee on vacation, If he so requests, win beglven his pm oheque (lorwork performed in the week prior to Ms vacation) at the plant b stween the hours of 8:30 a.m. and 5:00 p.m, on any normal pay day.
BJThePayroiiDepartmentwMIssueflcliequsforany short pay which exceeds (25.00 during the same pay week,
13:22 The Company agree* to the principle that a qualified time study engineer should aealstthalocal union In disputes involving piecework rates and standard practices as they relate to the piecework rate and win cooperate in the training of such engineers,
A)	fcleagreed taelaX expenses Incurred Inlhetraining of such men wM be borne by the Union.
13:23 A) Effective a. fOB3. a homd.maqB increase of 49 cents per hew Effkt^TunTT, 1B93~aC.d.LA adjustment wli be calculated that w» reflect oneeent (ti) perhourforeach full .3 points that the C.P.l. index exceeds the base for cateufatloa The base for calculation is May, 1983, In* creased by six percent (6%), Once this point Is reached any Increase win be based on the C, P, I. for tha second fij month after the point fs reached compared to die base The last oatcutation for each contract year win be for the month of May.
B)	Bhflhia Jury I.JflB*. a boxed wagatneramanf 40 cants per hour.
Effective Juie 1,1994 a C.O.LA adjustment will be calculated that wl It reflect one cent (1 s) perhourforeach hill .a points that die C.P.I. Index exceeds the base for calculation. The base for cafcufallon la May, 1994, in* creased by six percent (6%). Once this point Is reached 31
anylncraasewillbebesedontheC.P.I.forlhesecondfull month after die point to reached compared to the base. The lest calculation for each contract year wilt be for the monthofMay.
O Effective June 1, t89S, a boned wage Increase of 40 cento per hour.
Effective June 1,1908 a C.O.LA adjustment will be calculated that wjH reflect one cent (to) per hour for each full .9 points that the C.P.I. Index exceeds die base lor calculation. The base for calculation Is May, 1995, increased by sixpsreent (6%). Once this polnttoreached any increase will be based on the C. P. I. for the secondftf month after the point to reached compared to (he base. The fast calculation for each contract year wW be tor the month of May,
D)	Eachad]ueimentapeclfied inParagraph 13:23 A) 8) C) win replace the previous adjustment, r any, In Its entirety. The amount Of C.O.LA. Increase shall be calculated and recalculated as provided above on the bests of the Consumers Price Index (C.P.I,)puMsh*d by Statistics Canada (1971 * 100%)
E)	forlnoentlve ratedoperation* they will be addedto the hiring rate, job hourly rate and to th e average straight time hourly earnings (noteweedlng the95T.U.H.R. limit for the job classification) by job classification andgroup-Ing. Perlodusadtodetefmlnethaav'e/ageatralflhttime hourlyeamlngs wiH be the last four (4) foil weeks h April of each contract year.
Night Shift Premium
13.24 For hours worked between three (3:00) p.m. to eleven (i f ;00) p m. there shall be paid a premium rata of thirty canto (30C) per hour, For hours worked between eleven (11:00) p.m. to seven (7:00) a.m. there shall be paid a premium rate of thirty-five cento (38e) per hour.

13:25 Shift premiums shell not be included;;? cafcula-tlon of overtime compensation. Shift premiums shall not beueedfortha purposeof eslcutatinginoentive earnings,
32
ARTICLE XIV Hour* of Work
14:01 The normal working hours <f the employees covered by this Agreement shall be eight (fl) bouts per day, five (8) days par week, making a normal workweek of forty (40) hours. The normal work week shall be from eleven (11:0fl) pm Sunday io eleven (11:00] pm Fit day.
The Company may also establish shut schedules foi continuous operations,
In the event th* Company finds It Is necessary to Impla-rnentacomirujous operation, both parties wHI discuss the most feasible and effective schedule.
14:02 The Company does not guarantee (o provide any work to the extent of tftehoursrr days indicated li Paragraph 14:01 of this Article.
14:03 The pay week shall begin with Die shift atartlng nearest Sunday, eleven (11:00) p.m. and end with the shift ending nearest Sunday, eleven <11:00) p.m,
14:04 The work day shall be the twenty-four (24) hours following the employee's starting time.
14:03 the first shift wHI start at eleven (tl:00) p.m, Sunday or the time nearest eleven (11:00) p.m. where production requirements make it necessary, exoept that straight day shift operations will start at seven-thirty (7:30) am Monday.
14:08 A) The regular working schedule for incentive and hourly rated employees shall be as follows:
Eight (8) hour rotating shifts*
Seven (7:00) am ta throe (3:00) p.m.
Three (3tf0) pm to eleven (11:00) p.m.
Eleven (11:00) p.m. to seven (7:00) a.m.
Should a multi-shift operation revert to a single shift the above hours of work shall apply.
33
B)The regular working schedule (or incentive and hourly rated employee's eMU be as follows:
Straight day shift
8aven-thfrty (7;30)a.m, to eleven-thirty (1 t;30)a,m. Twelve (12:00) noon to lour (4:00) p.m.
14:07 Employees on hourly rated lobswin be allowed the following rest and lunch period without toss of earning#:
(I)	Eight (9) hour rotating shifts - (“A" Classification Jobs).
One (1). twenty (20) minute lunch period.
Two (2), ten (tO) minute rest periods.
(II)	Straight day shifts,
One (1) tm (10) minute rest period, morning and afternoon.
(III)	Eight (8) hourrotgttog shifts - (“B" Classification Jobs)
one (1), thirty (30) minutelunchperlod. two (2). ten (10) minute rest periods,
14:0$ employees on incentive jobs will be permitted the following rest and lunch periods without Increasing the rate or making any additional allowances:
(I)	Eight (8) hour rotating ehffte ("A" Classification Jobs).
One (1). twenty (20) minute lunch period.
Two (2), ten (10) minute rest periods.
(II)	Straight day shifts
one (1), ten (10)mtnute rest period, morning and afternoon,
(III)	Eight (8) hour rotating shifts fB" Classification Jobe).
one (1), thirty (30) minute lunch period, two (2), ten (10) minute rest periods.
14:09 The time of rest and lunch periods shall be so arranged as not to interfere with production cycles.
34
14:10 Employees shad be allowed five (8) minutes without low of pay at the end of each shift for the purpose of washing up immediately before quitting time, excepton operations designated by the Company as continuous operations where employees shall continue to operate their jobs until relieved by the following shift operator. Rilashad not apply when an employse leavesprlortohle regular scheduled quitting time. TMstl me allowance shall not be used as a means of Increasing an Incentive rate.
ARTICLE XV
Wage Potlelee for Special Conditions
18:01 Banbury operators, Banbury mlllmen. Com-pcundmen, open mIH mixing operators; employ e»(s) who k>ad8 outside scrap truck, (east end north bulking and mixing department) and lilt truck operators) when handling caibon black, and Goodman Cutter while locatedlri Mixing Department, will be allowed fifteen (16) mlnutas showertlmeupon completion of their shift, at stralghttkne pay at the applicable hourly rate.
A mafntenarrce emptoyae(s) assigned to the mixing department (hi excess of on8 (1) hour) shall be allowed fifteen (15) minutes shower lime upon completion of said assignment. He must report i o flic Supervisor who as-signsd fit* work and advise him as to his destination and have his time card authorized. On the afternoon and the midnight shifts said authorizalln must be obtained from the mixing Supervisor. Should the assignment be forafull shift he {they) shall be allowed fifteen (18) minutes showier lime upon die completion of their shift et their
straight time pay at the applicable hourly ^ If It appears that this clause b being abused it may be necessary to establish control to eliminate the abuse.
18:02 An employee reporting for work who has failed to receive notice at his last recorded address at least fou r
(4)	houre Inadvancenottoreport, and receives leeslhan four (4) hours shall b® paid lor not leas than four (4)hours
88
at hi* average straight time hourly eamlngB. An employee or employee* covered by this paragraph Is required to ring inhlatlmeoardreport to hlsfaremen and ring outhlBtlmecardffnovrorMBavellable. Reportlngpaywiil not be paid when:
A)	An employee has not been notified because he was absent or on vacation or leave of absence et tfjetlme of announcement of no work wee made.
B)	in the event of strikes, stoppages of, or Interference with workln connection with labour disputes, catastrophles.MIure of utilities, acts of public enemy, or breakage of major equipment.
16:03 An employee who Is InfuredwMfeon duty andls treated In the Drat aid department shall be paid average straight time hourly earnings tr time lostwhlle aftoe first akf department. An employee Injured at work and referred by the Company for out of plant treatment or examination bya physician ora hospital shall be paid at average hourly earnings for necessary time lost from Ids regular shift for the lint authorised treatment. Under no circumstances widen employee be paidlor time before
or after shift hours.
15:04 Any employee required to work through two (2) cr marc hour8 In expose of hti regular shift wltho ' advance nodes will be given a meal allowance of five dollars ($8.00).
18:05 An employee who la selected for Jury duty or subpoenaed as a witness shad be reimbursed by the Company athtoavaraaestralght time houriyeamlngs tar normal working hours lossless any payment received lor time spent on said jury or other defined duly during the normal work week. The proof of payment tor said Jury or other defined duty is to betorwarded by the employee to the Company Perswmul Department prior to any Company reimbursement being made.
18:08 Tima apart by the two (2) Union 6afety repre-sentativea on Ihe monthly safety tour and the four (4) V ! Union Safety representativesattendlng toe Safety meetIng win be paid at their average straight time hourly earning*.
Bereavement Pay
1 5:07 An employee win be granteea leave of absence from work because of death m his Immediate family, and shall be paid hie average straight time hourly eamln gsfor hie scheduled working hour* so exoueed during the first (tire# (3) payroll day* starting on the payroll day following the death of a member of hi* family and ending on the day of the funeral, If on the day of the funeral an employee i s scheduled to work on the 11:00 p.m. • 7:00 a.m. shift he sfaalbegrantedalaaveafabaancaandtwcompeneatod for time loel on thla shift provided such paymentdoer not exceed the maxhnumthree (3) day period specified in this paragraph. The term 'member of hie (011111/ means a husband or wife, child, foster children, grandparents, grandchild, parent, step-parent, psrenteln-law,brother or ■later, aon-Maw, daughter-in-law, brother-in-law, sis-ter-IrMew.spouesa grandparent, spouses brother-in-law, spouses ejster-ln-law, the category of relatives specified above Include legal end blood relationships. Noentrapay allowance will be paid for multiple or simultaneous deaths occurring within any three (3) day period. Should the death occur on the calendar day Thursday, and burial takes place on Monday, flien the paynol day Monday
shall be included as the third (3rd)day provided for m this paragraph. Any pay received far compassionate leave ana holiday dial be in leu of pay lorsuchhoHday under Article XVII.
ARTICLE XVI Overtime
16:01 An hourly and/or incentive rated employee, working in excess of eight (B) hours in any twenty-four (24) hourpedod, shallbepaid atthe rateoftimeandone-
16:02 Al work performed by hourly and/or Incentive rated employees between the hours* of eleven {11:00) p.m. Friday and eleven <11:00) p,m, Saturday, shal be paid at the rate of time and one-half provided the employee^) has vtotad or been compensated by the Company for forty (40)fegularhour8ln the week, except that normal working hours not worked due to Union leave or other approvedleavas ofabsenceshallbe countedas time worked tor purposes of computing weekly overtime,
16:03 All work performed by hourly and/or Incentive
rated employees between the hours of eleven (11:00} p.m. Saturday and eleven (11 :Q0) pm Sunday shal be' paid at the rate of double time.
18:04 It £recogn$zadthatlt may be necessary to work beyond the normal work day or work week. Every reasonable effort will bemadetoavoid having employees work In excess of twelve (1 a) consecutive hours in any twenly-lbur(24) hourparlod. The Union, the employees andtheCompany are expected toco-operate inperformIng necessary overtime. Overtime will be distributed In accordance with Letter #6 of the Collective Labour Agree, ment
18:08 Any holiday as listed In Paragraph 17:01 of Article XVII occurring during the work week whether worked or notehell be considered as part of the normal work week as defined in Paragraph 14:01 and 14;02 of Article XIV.
18:08 Employees who worked overtime shall not be required to tale time off to offset such overtime.
18:07 When an employee Is called beck to work because of an emergency after leaving the Company premises hesbefl be entitled to receive hts time andone-half pay for hours worked buttn nocase shaft be paid less than lour (4) hours pay at Job hourly rats.
38
On the fat day of the work week a maintenance employee^} called In to work on an emergency prior to the sunt of his regularscheduled shift Shan be paid time and one half for hours worked but In no case paid less Itian four (4) hours pay at Jolhcurly rate:
16:08 Work performed by an employee in excess of eight (8) hours /nanytwerty-four (24) hourperlod will not be paid for at time and one-half when:
A)	Such overtime Is caused by a personal arrangement mads between two (2) employee#, thatls, where one employee works for another.
B)	A change la made in an employee's working hours at hie own request.
C)	The time Is spent by the Bargaining Committee members Ii grievance meetings with Company representatives during the member's regular scheduled shift hours, however, such time will be considered part of the representatives regular shift hours in determining overtime houre on regular deportment work.
0) It Is esused by the regular weekly shift change.
16:09 Compensation for overtime work shall not be paid twice for the same hours of work.
ARTICLE XVII Holiday Pay
17&1 The folowlng days shall be recognized as holidays and paid for at the rate of double tine lor hours worked, in addition to the holiday pay where eligible; Pint Year of Agreement,
Canada Day, CMo Holiday, Labour Day, thanksgiving Day, December 24 for Christmas Day, December 87 tor Boxing Oey, December 2B, December 29, December 31 lor New Year'sOay, Good Friday, Victoria Day.
Second Year of Agreement.
Canada Oay, Cfvio Holiday, Labour Day, Thanksgiving 39
Dey, Oecember 26 as Boxing Day, December 27 as Christmas Day, December 28, December29, January 2 as New Year’s Day, Good Friday, Victoria Day.
Third Year of Agreement
Canada Day, Civic Holiday, Labour Oay, Thanksgiving Day,Christmas Day, BoxingDay, Decembers?, Decern-ber26, New Year’s Day, Good Friday, Victoria Day,
17:02 The Company will allowthe following with pay an the baeia of one (J) normal day at average straight time hourly earnings Ins ary weekly sickness Indemnity payment for such cfeyt. In the ease of the Mix-Mill Operation, the quality bonus Shal be ineluded in this payment'
First Year of Agreement,
Canada Oay, Civic Holiday, Labour Day, Thanksgiving Day, December 24 for Christmas Oay, December27tof BoxingDay, December 26, December 29, December31 for New Year’s Day, Good Friday. Victoria Day,
Second Year of Agreement CanadaDy, Civic Holiday, Labour Day, Thanksgiving Oay, December 28 as Boxing Oay, December 27 os Christmas Oay, Decembers December 28, January 2 as Hew year’s Oay, Clood Friday, Victoria Day.
Third Yearof Agreement
Canada Day, Civic Holiday, tabour Day, Thanksgiving Day .Christmas Day, Boxing Day, December27, December 28, New Year's Oay, Good Friday, Victoria Day.
ToquaMy tor paymsntonthe above designated holidays, when not worked, the employee must work his last regular shlftsimmediateiy prior toand Immediately following such holiday unless hie absence is caused by any of the following reasons:
A) An employeewhoseabeenoe is due to personal injury cr proven unavoidable illness of the employee, thBttrriptoy8B*s^tou86oruiwiRrri6dtitikiy must work his lastfUl scheduled shift wfthki thirty {30) calender days prior to the day on which the
holiday faHs or hi» first lull scheduled shift within thirty $0) calendar days following the day on which the holiday (alto. “Proven unavoidable lUnaas" shell be Interpreted to mean that the burden of proof rests an the employee.
m Employees who refuse or who absent themselves when scheduled forworkonahollday shall not reosive holiday pay unless the reason tor absence la personal injury or proven unavoidable Klnets of the employee, theemptoyee'8 spouse cr unmarried ohM.
C)	Empfoyeea who due to an approved leave of absence leave work or return to work during the work week in wWOMhehollday tolls shall be paid for such hoAdfty, provided such employees work their last fun scheduled shift prior to end their first M scheduled shift after the holiday.
D)	Employees who are laid off In the work week In which a holiday occurs shill be paid tor such holiday provided they qualify under Paragraph 17:02 (A)and <G) above.
E)	Employees returning to work after a layoff must work at least one (1) day during the week In which such holiday tolls as am# as quality under Paragraphs 1T.02 (A) end (8) above.
F)	Plant operations wilt normaly be completed by flour (4:00) p.m. on Christmas and New Year's Eve and any emergency work scheduled after four (4:00) p,m. on these days win be performed on a voluntary basis.
Q)	With the change of starting time from the normal Monday morning start-up to the eleven (11.DO) p.m. Sunday start-up for thepurpcaes of payment for the designated holidays spalled out in this clause whether worked or notortor any overtime payment, thsdssfgnatsd holidayshall commence at eleven (f 1:00) p.m. the day preceding the holiday andend at eleven (t 1:00) p.m. the day of the holiday.
41
17:03 Should such a holiday aa defined In this Article tell during on employee's vacation period, such employee aa eligible underParagrapti 17:02 shall be paid for such holiday an the baaia of one (1} normal day atlhelreverage straight time hourly earnings In addition to vacation pay or they may take die next scheduled work day Immedl-ately fallowing their scheduled vacation period as the holiday,
17i04 Shouldthe holiday oceurwitWn theannual plant shutdown orona Sunday, the Holiday wKl betaken on the Monday Ii the next work week io the aotual date of a holiday,
17:05 Should the holiday occur on a Saturday, the holiday will be taken an the Friday preceding or Die following Mondayin conjunction with a survey of thelocal Industries.
ARTICLE XVIII Vacations
18:01 All employesswhoprfortoDecember31stof the current year have been
continuously employed for the fallowing periods will receive vacation with pay as follows:
1 • 5 years • two (2) weeks vacation with pay - four percent (4«) of total earnings, ti ■ 12 years • three (3) weeks vacation with pay • six percent (6%) cf total earnings.
12 • 20years- four (4) weeks vacation with pay ■ eight percent (8%) of total earnings.
20 ■ 30 years • five (8) weeks vacation with pay • ten percent (10%)of total earnings.
30 years and over' six (6) weeks vacation with pay-twelve percent (12%) of total earnings.
A) An employ eewtti less than one (1) year's continuous service with the Company shell receive four percent
(4%) of him total earnings for his service prior to January 1sl of the current year.
B)	Total Earnings’ shall be the grass earnings from the Company (including Ontario Health Insurance Com* mission Plan Premiums, which are paid by the Company on behalf of the employee and which are regarded as Income under the provisions of the Income Tax Act, and Worker’s. Compensation payments for lost time) during the twelve (12) monthsprior to January 1st of theourrent year and short work week benefits paid under the 8up< plemental Unemployment Benefits plan, Thiele intended to bring all employees to a standard vacation period for the express purpose of computing vacation pay during their employ with the Company. The vacation pay therefore wfll be computed on the grass eantinge in the prevtouscelendaryearstarlngon January island ending on December 3let,
Commencing wkh the vacation year 1978, weekly accident and sickness benefits as defined In 8ectlon 2, A, (1) of the Welfare and Insurance Agreement, paid to an employee in the preceding calendar year, dial be included an pari of Total Earnings" aa defined above,
C)	When an employes haebeen unable to work during a portion of the preceding yeerowingtoekskneseorinjuiy not covered by Iris Worker's Compensation Act and for these reasons only, his vacation pay calculated in accordance wtih this clause Bteas titan three hundredend eighteen dollars <$318,00) per week the vacation payto which he is entitled will be increased to the above minimum, provided he hae worked a minimum of th rae (3) months in Ihe vacation year.
D)	The fifth anti sMh weeks of vacation si each year are options! to any employee entitled to receive them and In order to beellglble tatake and observe such additional weeks ofvacatlonh thecurrent year the employeemust notify Ihe employer that he will be observing such additional week or wreaks of vacation by not later than dune 1. Failure by Ihe employee to notify the employer in accordance with this section will deprive the employee of
43
the right to taka time off to observe such additional weeks of vacation but will not daprivs him of hla vacation pay for the additional week or weeks. Employeeswlshlng payment for the fifth and sixth weeks of vacation not to be taken, must notify the Company h writing two (2) weeks prior to payment
10:02 An employee whose employment with theCom-peny Is terminated for a ny reason (otherthanlay-off) end who has not received his vacation payment In the current calendar year shall receive with his last pay cheque, a vacation payment based on the applicable percentage defined In Paragraph 18:01 of his total earnings tor the preceding calendar year. Vacation pay awarded under thleaacllon will beforeetvlceerendered intheprloryear, It addition, he shall receive vacation pay based on die applicable percentage as defined In Paragraph 18:01 of his total earning* from January 1 at of thecurrent calendar year until hla termination date. Vacation pay awarded under Ihis section will be for services rendered In the current year. An employee who has received his vacation paydurlngthe current calendsryearwfil receive with his last pay cheque the applicable percentage as defin ed hparagraph18;01 of hla totaleamings from January 1st of the current year unfit hla termination data.
Vacation pay awarded under this section will bo f a services rendered to toe current year,
The estate or beneficiary of a deceased employee shall be paid a vacation payment In accordance with the provisions of this section.
A) A lald-off employee shall receive priorto toe plant vacation period a vacation payment based on toe applicable percentage defined In Paragraph 18:01 of his Wat earnings tor (ha preceding calender year.
(8:03 AM employees wHl receive their vacation pay prior tothevacatlon period. The Company will provide toe employee8 with their vacation pay for the period of toe vacation to be taken on the fast pay period prior to the
44
oommencementofthelrvaeation. TheemployeewHIgive two waste written notice, IpossIWe,
1 S:04 Vacations s h a I Ibe granted atsuch Ume between Jine 1st and September 1st inoluslve as the Company flndi mo»t suitable considering the wishes by seniority of tha employees end the eflldent operation of the plant. The Company may schedule a shutdown for vacation period The Company wilt make reasonable effort to post the time of such vacation period by March 1st of the currant year. Vacation dates, however, may be changed by die Company h oases where it sfbund necessary for the efficient operation or due ta emergency conditions.
18:05 Vacations may not be postponed from one vacation period to another and will be forfeited unless completed during the vacation period, except when an employee is required to work during the vacation period, then such employee's vacation shall be completed by tlaoember atst of the current year.
18:08 At the option of the Company any employeecr employes* may be asked to work diiing the vacation period and If the employes or employees work during this vacation period t h y shall be entitled to vacation pay In addition it their regular pay, aa provided In Paragraph 18:01 of this Article, except In oases failing under Paragraph i8:05 of this Article.
AfrrtcLBXix
Mleceltensous
1 ftOt Bulletin Boards > The Company agrees to post notice* of meetl ngs and other Union business andatielre on butlattn boards provided for such purpo se. There shall t>* one < 1) such bulletin board at the north gate and one (1) atths main gale. It is agreed, that such notices must be approved by theMarmgerof Industrial Relatlonaof the Company, or fits designated representatives.
19:02 A)Health end Safety ■ The Company will con-46
tfrme to make reasonable and necessary provisions lor the healthand safety of its employees whie employed, Proper safety devices and other necesssry equipment shall beprovlded by the Company In accordance with its present practice and used properly by the employee. Four(4)representatlveeofthe Urionshaffbelndudetf on the Plant Safety Committee.
6) (1) The Company eheil pay the Union Health and Safety Chairperson (8) Hrs. pay per week at his A.H.E. In orderthathemay perform !he functions necessary ta Me office and work In conjunction with the plant Safety Co-ordinator.
B)(2)The Company ahull agree to the following with respect to !he members of the Union Health and Safety Committee:
a)	ToComplyfufywIthaksectlonsoftheOccupBtlonal Healthand Safety Act,
b)	Toreoelvscopiesafalleoolctent, Incident, injury and lines* reparte within 24 hre,
c)	Minutes of ail meetings of the Health and Safety Committee shall be kept by the Company. They shall be formalized and approved by the Co-Chairpersons forwarded to the Joint Healthand Safety Committee, Union President and the Plant Manager.
d)	The Joint Health and Safety Committee shall meet at least ones per month or more often if deemed necessary and agreed upon by the co-Chafrparsons.
All statutes, recommendations and dispositions of flndingsshallbersported and where possible target doles tor completion V\A be established,
e)	AS safety provisions must be consistent with the Occupational Health and SBfety Act
19:03 It Is understood that where the masculine pronoun 6 used in this agreement l shall refer to both genders unless the contents of the clause require other, wise.
46
18:04 “Average Straight Time Hourly EarnlnsB,> wherever used In the agreement ahall bethe average earnings exclusive of overtime and night shift premiums and shall be computedffom the second previous pay period prior tothe week in which they are to be used. If an employee was absent for this period, the preceding week's pay period ahall be used.
18:05 No employee ahall be recognized by the Company as a steward, or as a member of the Executive Board of the Union until the Manager of Industrial Relations has been notified In writing of htaststus and jurisdiction, by thePrssIdant, Vice-President, or Secretary of the Union. Each member of the Executive Board shall have at toast one (1) year's seniority with the Company and shall be regular employees of the Company during their time ot office. '
19:08 Members of factory management ahall not do the work which la normally assigned to direct workers, except for temporary periods in emergencies or In relieving employees for personal time or in instructing employees or li carrying out functions necessary to the fulfillment of their supervisory responsibilities, such as checking workmanship, and quality and running equipment to check on operating problems or maintenance needs. It Is recognized that in the performance of experimental and deveiopmentwork onpraductlonequlp-ment, It Is sometimes neceasarytor supervision or technical personnel to perform operations for occasional short periods of time in order to pet the fed" cf the operation. Direct work by supervisors and technical personnel ahall beforthe purpose stated aboveandahall not be lor the purpose of displacing direct workers.
19:07 ThepresentCompanypolicyofpravWingcov-eralls to female employees, shall be contlnuad for the duration of this agreement.
47
19:06 The Company shall have the right to place a number of trainees throughout the plant, no! lo exceed two percent (2%) of the factory enrollment These trainees wilt be used for educational and self-training purposes and maybe assigned to production equipment for these purposes. The trafnee(s) shall no! displace a direct worker and may be retained on any one Job classification for a maximum period of three (3) months.
10:09The Company agrees to provide adequate relief for normal personal needs In any departmentwhere the work requires continuous operation.
19:10 An employee will be given a copy of any disci-pfinenotice concerning his conduct«the time tflepleced in tils personal record. A copy of every discipline notice will be forwarded to the secretary and to the Union President'* deslgneted representative by the Personnel Manager of the Company. Disciplinary notices for of-fansaa not repeatedwlthln a one f/tyearperfod will be cancelled end not wed for disciplinary action, however, they will remain a pari of the employee's record for a period of five (5) years and then will be removed and destroyed.
19:11 The term WbrioigOeys* whenever It appears lithe Agreement shall be Interpreted to mean normal working days, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and paid holidays unless such specified days are scheduled and worked by a majority of employees.
19:12 Fore maximum period of up lofour (4) weeks Immediately following an Incentive rated employee's transto duetojob abolishment, or curtailment of prodtrc-Yon, or Jotabld, the guaranteed minimum fir productive tlmeprovfded the employee works at makeouteffort shall be his actual Incentive earnings but not less than the hiring rats tor the Jobclassifteetton worked.
46
10:13 All letters one (1) through eighteen (18) adden-dume or appendices bytitle shall form part of the Collective Agreement.
19:14 The Company wlf reimburse employees tor the coat of short term and long term disability forms.
ARTICLE XX
Amendments
20:01 Amendments totheAgreementmaybo made by mutual agreement of both parties. Proposed emend-meninshal be submitted ki writing bythepartyaubmittfng the change and negotiations on such proposals Bhall begfnwiiinlhir1y(30)daya. Duringthenegotiationsand thereafter, ft no eonelualon Is reached, the provisions of this Agreement shell remain In effect.
ARTICLE XX1 Duration and Termination
21:01 Save ai the Pension Plan and Service Award Agreement, TheWaffare and Insurance Agreement and the Supplemental Unemployment Benefits Plan Agreement and Separation Payment Plan signed between rite parties, this Collective Agreement shaft be the entire one and ahal be effective from the athday ofMerch, 1993, end shafl continue in force until the 1 St day ol June, 1908, and taryearty periods thereaftw.ur^awirifari'ndHce la' ~ given to either party within ninety (80) days Immediately prior to the expiration data or the onnhrersary date of any yearly periodSTmittadaalredtotwrfrmteor toamend the Agreement. In the event such notice is given the parties shall commence negotiations within fifteen (15) days thereafter and If such negotiations are not concluded prior to the termination date ol this Agreement, It shall continue in toll force and effect thereafter until negotiations have been concluded, subject to cancellation by either party upon thirty (30) days' written nodes to the other party <r
49
untiltheprocedurecontemplated by the Labour Relations A* has been completed.
In witness whereof the parties heretohave executed this Agreementtfils 8th day of March, 1983.
Not withstanding olhar provisions of the agreement, the Company ahaH have the option any lima after the effective dateofthlsagroement and before January^ t996lo request a one year extension or the agreement and all other agreements, until June 1,1997, by giving written request ta die Union. The Union will have sixty (90) calendar days from receipt of such request to reject the Company request for an extension.
The Company will grants wage Increase, effective June 1,1999of forty-five (45) centsper hour F such extension Is not rejected by the Union within said sixty (80) days.
Signed, sealed and delivered In (he presence of:
LOCAL455,	QENCORP
UNITED RUBBER,	CANADA INC.
CORK, LINOLEUM &	WELLAND.
PLASTIC WORKERS OF AMERICA, AFLCIO-CLC.	ONTARIO.
F. Houle	B. Baird
T. Gasperetti	0. Whldden
N. Labbe	N. Maifhot
B. Martin	0. Molnar
P. lampman C, Scime International	T. Qrano
Representative
50
Utter No. 1
March B, 1993.
President, Local 485 United Rubber, Cork, Unoleum and Plastic workers of America 214 King Street Welland, Ontario
Deer Sir:
Itia the intention of the Comppany that multipleabsen ■ teee who ant unable to provide satisfactory explanation to the Medical Centre <r Personnel Department for their absences will be requiredto report to the Medical Centre or Personnel Department after each subsequent absence prior to commencing work.
h the event of an employee beingtold to report tothe Medical Centre he will be paid from the time he was scheduled to report provided he Is reedy end willing to return to work.	.
The purpose of this visit is to provide an adequate follow up and control of abeenteslsm.
Multiple absentees wHl be reviewed with the Union. A "Multiple Absentee” Is defined wan employee who has four (4)aeparateunaxcusedab8encesdurlngRS0ven (7) month period. The multiple absenteswho dose not lose unexcused flmeovarathre (5) month period wM have his name removed from this list (Worker's Compensation cases will be excluded).
The Arbitration decision or November 12,1986, becomes pert and parcel of this leter.
Yours very truly,
B.O. Baird
Manager, Human Resources
51
Uttar No. 2
Match 0.1003.
President, Local 466 United Rubber, Cork, Linoleum and Plastic Workers of America 214 Wing Street Welland, Ontario
Dear Sir:
For many years services of a fully equipped Medical Centre have been provided to ell employees of this Company. From time to time everyone has utilized these services for themselves or h some cases members of their families. Qualified end experienced personnel are available and ready to assist you With thfs Implant service, illnesees &raften detected and arrested in the early stages. Complete medlool histories for each employee have bien complied and am referred to when needed. The Medical Centre therefore is provided lot your benefit
Due to your record of frequent absences you are hereby advised that you mutt report to the Medical Centra tor clearance before reluming to work following any future absences. Your schedule forthe first work day that totowa such an absence will begin at the tlmey o u are scheduled to report to the Medical Centre and are ready end willing foreturn to your regular Job.
To minimize any lost time it Is suggested that you contact and dear the Medical Centre In advance ofyour return to work. If you have obtained clearance from your own doctor, please bring in the certificate at this time.
Thiaprocedure will remain in effect untllyour absentee record has Improved to the extent outlined In the letter to the UnionPrealdent, dated Maths, 1993 atwhlch time you will be notified accordingly, As you are aware the Medical Centre Is open from 9:00 a.m. to 4:30 pm
92
Monday to Friday.
Yours truly,
B.D. Baird
Manager, Human Resources
Letter No. 3
March 8,1089.
President, Local 455 United Rubber, Cork, Linoleum and Plastic Workers of America 214 King Street Welland, Ontario
Deaf Sir:
As agreed to durln g these negotiate ni it la u nderstood end agreed thsttempomry transfers are exemptfrom the provisions of Article IX, X, XI of this Collective Labour Agreement
Fora period of up to one |1) work week, In case of temporary curtailment cif production necessitating a reduction d an employee ar employees on a job the employee or employees effected, shall, If qualified, be temporarily transferred on the toll owing basis:
1.	For the first work day or balance of (he shift, the employeeor employeesaffeclad onthe|ob on that shift, shall. If qualified, be transferred ta available jobs Ii the department or plant on that shift,
2.	Forthasscond workday orshlftandforthe balance of that work weak, the employee with the taaat seniority on the job In the deportment on that shift, shall. If qualified, be transferred to available jobs in the department or plant.
3.	it the curtailment of production continues into the following work weak tha provisions of Article X shall apply fa tha employee with thefeast seniority in the department or plant.
93
4.	If the work offered to the employee described in Section 1 end 2 above Is hourly rated, he shal receive the hourly rate forthet particular Job to which he (s transferredor the hourly rate of Me regular Job whlcheverls greater, If offered work on an Incentive reted job, he shall receive the hourly rateforthatjob or the hourly rata of his regular Job or hie actual earnings whichever is greatest.
Yours very truly,
B.O. Baird
Manager, Human Resources Letter No, 4
March 6,1963.
President, Local 4SB,
United Rubber, Cork, Unoleum and Plattlc Workers of America,
214 King Street,
Welland, Ontario
Dear Sir:
S h understood and agreed that when work ie not available on an employee's regular job due directly to a fedf ure of bolter facilitiessuch Wrne ta»t shall bePaW for at an employee’s average hourly earnings If offered other work or Me aotual earnings if greater, provfded that the bailer breakdown exceeds two (2) or more hour* during the work shift.
Ifanemptoyeedoespotwprfcatmakeoufeftortheehall
be paid only his jobhourlyrateforttie time spentonsuch
other job,
Yoursvery truly,
8,0.	Baird
Manager, Human Resources
64
Utter No. 0
March 0,1903
Preelderrt. local 465 United Robber, Corfc, Unoleum and Ptaatlc Workers of America 214 King Street Welland, Ontario
Deer Sir:
It le underatood and agreed that every reasonable effort will be made to provide an employee with the opportunity to earn ip to die 100 T.U.H, rats by keeping him an Incentive operations throughout his shift.
An employee has the right to appeal any decision that £ inconsistent with the Intent of this letter through the usual grievance procedures.
Vours vary truly,
B.D. Baird
Manager, Human Resources
05
Letter No. 6
March 6,1083
President, Local 498 United Rubber, Cork, Unoleum and Plastics Workers of America 214 KingStnwt Welland, Ontario
Dear Sir
It is understood and agreed that every reasonable effort win bemads by the Company to distribute necessary overtime work In a Mr and equitable manner,
To accomplish this undertaking thefollowingsequen-tlal procedure shall detetmlnethe employee^) eligible to work the required overtime. A refusal at any one of the sequential steps Iithls procedure rnjIMes (He employee^) sllgibWIy for any required overtime work.
1.	Theemptoyeefejinlhedepartmenialjobclaealflca-, lion who normally works that shift, on the equipment or machine fequtred, Including employeela) temporarily transferred autof the job classification.
i An employee who hasatCompany request tempe-rarlly transferred for at lent three (3) consecutive days to the departmental job classification on the specific shift, on the equipment or machine prior to the overtime work requirement.
3.	The senior employee In !he departmental job d«u-slllcation who normally works that shift on other comparable equipment or machine.
4.	The senior employee in the a ame departmental job dassWcstlon who normally works on other shifts.
5.	The senior qualified departmental employaiwho normattywwksonarialherjob on theshlft Involved.
9,	The senior qualified departmental employee who normally works on another lob oh other shifts.
58
7. A qualified employee from another department In
the plant,
It Is further understood end agreed by the Union that certain emergency conditions may occur that may preclude the above procedure being followed, it k the intention of both parties to minimize this type of ease.
When an employee £ asked to work weekend and holiday overtime h accordance with Utter #8 an answer must be given at the beginning of their next scheduled shift.
If Urey are asked to work overtime after Wed. 11MQ P.M. an answer must be given Immediately,If the above £ notfollowed, the employee wil nullify his/her eligibility for overtime.
Yours very truly.
B.D. Baird
Manager, Human Resources Utter No. 7
March B, 1993
President, local 498 United Rubber, Cork, linoleum end Plastic Workers of America 214 King Street WMIand, Ontario
Dear Sirs
Equal opportunity shall be given to all maintenance employees normally performing the wo rk to participate ii - the overtime providing thin is consistent with the continuity of work.
Master overtime list widbe posted, and updated weekly. A new list will be posted at the anniversary date of each contractor, and the overtime of the employee with the 67
lowest amount of hours will be reduced to aero, and aN other employees hours to bereduced correspondingly.
To accomplish this undertaking the followingsequen-tial procedure Shan determine the employee^) eligibility to work the required overtime.
STEP f: The employee^) in the Job daesWcation who normally works that shift wilh the lowest overtime hours recorded.
STEP 2: The smployee(s) in the job classification who normaliy works that shift with next lowest overtime hours recorded, end so on,
STEP3: The employee^) ip die job classification with the lowest overtime hours recorded, and so on.
STEP 4: in the oaee of employees In the same ]ob classification having equal overtime hours, seniority wW determine entitlement.
STEP 8: The employes in this job claaslfleationwlth the lowest number of overtime hours as of 7:00 am Thursday will be offered the weekend overtime shifts (both shifts IT required) available to hlmeil shifts offered whether worked °r
refused will becharged at theapplicable rate. Overtime hours wW be recorded and charged as follows:
1,	Al overtime hours, either worked, or refused wilt be charged on the bails of hours paid, (led hoursettime and one half posted as 12 hours • 9 hours at double time posted ae 16 hours).
2,	An employee who refuses overtime work wiltbecharged with the overtime hours available,
3.	A new employee, transferred employee, or an employee receded from extended fey-off will be charged with me average number of overtime hours within the job classification.
4.	Daily emergency overtime will be offered to the em. ployee on the shift on which the overtime occurs,
86
regardless of his overtime hours, and w# not be charged.
5.	Employees absent. Including vacation, mH have all overtime hours that wouWhave been available to them charged as a sum of the average overtime hours worked in their classification during their absence, weekly,
6.	An employee scheduledto work a hours overtime who goes home at Ns own request prior to com plating the 8 hours will be chargedter a shift. II he goes homeat the company’s request he will be chained with the actual overtime hours paid.
7.	AH statutory holidays under this agreement shall be considered overtime and shaH be offered and charged as above,
8.	Call In procedures for emergencies, and ail overtime hours worked during the regular five (5) day week, will remain outside of the overtime procedure, i.e. hours wIN not becharged. The curfent.meUiod of calling in by seniority and clasefflcation istwtif remain In elect
9.	If i n overtime shMt{s) cannot be covered it wW be scheduled to the low seniority and up within the |ob dassMotUon required.
Yours very truly,
B.O. Baird
Manager, Human Resources
68
Litter No. 8
MarchS, 1993
Presktont, Local 45S United Rubber, Cork, Linoleum and Plastlo Workers of America 214 King Street Welland, Ontario
Deer Sin
The Company will subsidize an employee eluty dollars <860.00) towards the cost of purchase of one (1) pair of leather safety shoes peryear for hie personal use during hisregulsrworking hours, This paymentwill be madeto eachemployee during the third pay period of January of eachyear, ItahaHbemandatoryforatlemployeestowear safety shoe* vrfien on Company premises.
Employees who are not on the active payroll when the payment of safety shoes Is made in January, will receive their 8afety Shoe Allowance upon return to work.
Yours very truly,
8.0.	Baird
Manager, Human Resources
60
Letter No. 8
March 0,1993
President, Local 485 United Rubber, Cork, Linoleum and Plastic Workers of America 914 King Street Wetland, Ontario
Dear Sir:
As agreed during these negotiations, the Company shed provide gloves on operations that require the use of this hand protective equipment.
The Initial pair of gloves shall be supplied at no cost to the employee. Provided ths employee returns the worn pair to Stores a replacement pairof gloves shall be at no cost to the employee, otherwise the ful coat of tho replacement pairshall be borne by the employee.
Currentp r i m of tWs handprotectlve equipment shall be posted on the 8toree bulletin board.
Yours very truly,
B.D. Baird
Manager, Human Resources
61
Utter No. 10
March 8,1093
President, Local 408,
United Rubber, Cork, Linoleum and Plastic Workers of America 214 King Street Wetland, Ontario
Dear Sir
The present practices listed below shall becominued for the duration of 1hls Agreement,
1.	Replace at no coatto the maintenance tradesman or set-up men any worn or damaged bola.
2.	ThescheduUngofmaintenancetradesmen'sweek* end work as contained In the “Maintenance Weekend work Schedule".
3.	Upon request the Company will cooperate with employees in certifying work experience bo as to enable the employee to apply for U.R.W. journeyman card,
4.	The Company shad provide to lha maintenance tradesman, a one Urn# $100.00 tool allowance for the purchase of tools.
Yours very truly,
B.O. Baird
Manager, Human Resources
62
Latter No. 11
MarchS, 1883
President, Local 465 UfHled Rubber, Cork, Unofaum and Plaitfo Workers of America 214 Kino Street Welland, Ontario
Dear Sr:
Fortheduretton of this Agreement the Company agrees
1.	The present practice of providing and cleaning coveralls to the following cteeslficatiora:
Mixing
$et-Up
Trucker • Department 181
2.	In addition to the above, the Company will provide and dean 10 paire of coveralls la die following ctasslflcatlorta:
Maintenance Solvent Room Attendant
3.	Rainwear wW be provided to allemployaea working outside In Inclement weather.
4.	The Company will furnish one (1) pair of safety rubber boots to Janitors for use when working outside In Inclement weather or washing down the shower room area. These rainwear boots will be made available through the Stores and relumed to the Stores when not being used.
Yours vary truly,
B.O. Baird
Manager, Human Resources
63
Utter No, 12
Marche, 1893
President, Local 405 United Rubber, Cork, Linoleum and Plastic Workers of America 214 King Street Welland, Ontario
Dear Sir:
During the 1907 contract negotiations, the Company and Union hawbeen discussing the desirability of oon-vertlngsomelncsnllve Job# loan hourly rate. The parties agree that there may be some merit tn doing so, especially in connection with cycle or machine controlled operations. Because of the complications involved the parties agree to establish a |oint committee within 30 days of ratification. This committee shall consist of three (3) Union appointees and three (3) company appointees to Investigatelhese matters and to implementthe changes where the committee agrees a change should be made, subject fa membership approval.
Compensation for Ume spent on subject matter shall be paid at average hourly earnings.
Yours very truly,
B.O. Baird
Manager, Human Resources
a4
Uttar No. 13
Marche, 1993
President, Local 486 United Rubber, Cork, Unoleum and Pieatlo Worker* of America 214 King Street Welland, Ontario
Dear Sir:
Until aU employeea on layoff are offered recall, the weekend crew win nofbeutlteed In a department unless the department la being worked ta capacity an a tve (Q) day best*.
Employeea on layoff who refuse en offerof weekend orewwork will retain thek seniority rightaona# recaflllats. These employeea wilt not be offered weekend crew work again unless they give thirty (Jfljdays notice (hat they wish to be considered again far weekend crow.
Employees on layoff who accept an offer of weekend crew work, wil regardless of any other lanpuege, retain thalr seniority rights to return to die regular work force. Yours very truly,
0.D. Baird
Manager, Human Resources
Letter No. 14
March 0,1883
President, Local 48S Unted Rubber, Cork, Linoleum and Plastic Workers of America 214 King Street,
Wdand, Ontario
Dear Sin
As agreed to during theta negotiations It Is understood and agreed that Clause 8:09 of Article IX shal be handled in the following manner*
When an employee ie permanently disabled aa a result of hie employment with theCompany and medical documentation of the employee's restrictions has been provided lo the Company, and na|ob has been found by the Company which the employee can perform, a Joint Commtttaeconslstfng of thePresIderrt, Vice President of the local Union, the Manager, HumanResourcea and Ihe Company Safety Representative, shall meet and deter, mine what fobs the employe Is capable and qualified to perform In the plant.
The employee shall be placedon said job. If a vacancy exists at that point In time. If no vacancy exists ihe employee shall be placed on layoff until a job vacancy he la capkileof performing becomes available, if, during this layoff period, the employee receives compensation other than pension benefits due to hie disability, heshall continue to accrue seniority for this period of time.
The vacancy described herein shall not be posted, In accordance with Art We KE of this Agreemani.
Yours very truly,
B.D, Sabd
Manager, Human Resources
69
M i r No. 15
MarchS, 1893
President, Local 455,
United Rubber, Cork, Linoleum and Pleatlo Workera at America,
214 King Street,
Welland, Ontario
Dear 8k:
The Company recognizes the rilflloultlee that may be created when temporarily transferring an employee to a different shift. The Union recognizes the Importance of maintaining productivity, quality and safety standards. Accordingly within this understanding the Company wll make every reasonable effort to minimize this problem. Yours very truly,
B.Q. Bakd,
Manager. Human Resources.
87
Utter No. 16
March 8,1989
Preaidant, Local 45$
United Rubber, Cork, Linoleum and Plastic Worker* of America
Dear Sir,
During the 1M0 negotiation*, the Company and the Union have agreed io form a joint task force, whose specliloassignment will beto review the Incentive8ys* tarn as outHnad In Article XIN.
This committee win be made up of six (6) members, three (3)membora from the Unlanand three (3)members from Management
ThiscommltteeahaK be required to presenttts recommendations lothe Company Bargaining Committee and the Union Bargaining Committee.
Any decision to act upon or not act upon the TSsk Fores recommendations will be the sole responsibility or the joint bargaining committee.
Yours very truly,
B.D. Baird,
Manager, Human Resources.
68
Utter No. 17
March 8,1993
President, Local 455,
United Rubber, Cork, Linoleum and Plastic Workers of America,
514 King Street,
Welland, Ontario
Dear Sir.
Any bargaining unit employee who accepts a temporary transfer toactasaProductlon Supervisor for training purposes, vacation, sick replacement or overtime replacement shall have the responsibility for directing the work force In regards to - |ob assignments, quality of work, proper process controls in effect, adherence to specifications, schedulingof overtime, replacement employees Id cover for absenteeism, shift reports, time cants, S.P.C, requirements, maintenance requirements. Their authority wHi not extend into the disciplinary procedure, at o ventm s rights wi II beln their current assignment only and training periods will not exceed th ree (3) months.
The Intent of these assignments Is to bIIow Interested employees to Increase their overall knowledge wkh'hands on“ ceeporwibIRy In an Industrial environment.
Yours very truly,
8.0.	Baird,
Manager. Human Resources.
69
Utter No. IB
March 6.1993
President, local 486,
United Rubber, Cork, linoleum and Plastic Workers of America,
214 King Street,
Welland, Ontario
Dear Sir:
Curing the 1993 negotiations it has been agreed between the Company and the Union that synchronous manutacturlngwIH belmplementedatOenCorp, Welland. The following will be the parameters for implementation.
1.	Jab rates shal reflect the highest rats in the crew when persons are dra wn from more than one das* alflcatlort. This wffl reflect the craw A.H.E.
2.	H there are fnsufftelsnl persons within the depart* mant to fill all available Jobs In the work cell, then those remaining jobs will be posted.
3.	Unless otherwiseprovlded synchronous manufacturing system shall be consistent with the C.L.A.
4.	To ensure an orderly transition the Union shall be Involved in alliacets of the implementation such as Jobtraining, etc.
Yours very truly,
8.0.	Baird,
Manager. Human Resources.
70
Banbury Operator	10.42
Banbury M6&Conpewdar	10.42
Banbury Ccoipowder 3 Sarv.	10.42
Track*	10.42
EttuOingMulHm Operator	10.43
Extruding T/O Helper	1042
Extrunng T/O Checker	1042
MoHTarfmcian	10.42
Serve* Operator	io<2
Department Sal-Up	to.42
waceschepuie ~*r PtoducMtoi Group "A*
RraaMr. brttou** % Black	TOtahtM payWetfc CMOlUa	_JQbHoai cSb«[|	*M P1M UM lUtR. (423 EapaeMtey	MTflia UMJt IJH	140 Tn» UMIt Uartt
7.4*76	11200	8216	10251 (*S	11.790	10413
72960	11280	8258	10.476 {BS	11.710	12225
72950	11280	8258	1047609	11.710	12236
	10230				
7.16SO	10290	6201	9253	11245	11243
72BB0	10.490	7206	9.440	11210	11200
7.1650	10290	8201	9253	11248	11.943
7.1690	10600 t0260	8201	9253	11245	11242
11200
S-OC-AudBuir	ta«	H3B0	0040
Ut Track Operator	1042	10370	7306
Uattral fee. SHOO	10.42	10320	
SNnans	m<2	10920	
SJ»-C.		11340	
Sakai* doom AttanSrt	10.42	1130	
WAGE SCHEDULE *A*
Group'S
JottHourty)
I»t423
•SfStTSf
Join Block Press Operator	10.14	ft ftft*jQ	10230	7466
Group 8				
Ganarai Fnsfting liisc. \	1014 10.14	94400 64400	10210 10210	7.638 7.638
Product Repair	taw		10.440	
Group*				
Tobacco Cultar (UanuH) SIB Assembly Operator	1014 1014	64025 64025	10260 10260	7.706 7.706
£1 ¥
9.1S4	10.870	11.442
9.120	10430	11.400
9.120	10.830	11.400
9204	10430	11404
9204	10430	11.504
Ill
LATicMcianii Lab Technician 1 Production Scfcaduiar 11 Production Scheduler t Storekeeper
$11-55
$10.05
sioao
$10.05 $10.80 $ 9.40
$10.05
Data Entry Accounts Rectivobls Accaunli
Training Manual Coonhnalor Quatty Aesurance Clerk
WAGE SCHEDULE Group A
too	270	366
Dtp	Days	Oays
$11.80	$12.05	$1235
$1020 in, 05	$1095 $1190	$1055 $11.80
$1090	$10.55	$10.80
$11.0*	$11.30	$11.80
$ 9.60	S 8.75	$ 990
$1030	*10.55	$10.60
Group B
$ 9.95	*10.t0	$10.30
$ 9.34	* 999	$ 9-59
$10.26	$10.41	$10.58
$1098	$10.41	$10.56
$1098	$1041	$10.56
$1098	$10.41	S10.S6
$1098	$10.41	$10.56
WAGE SCHEDULE
,-‘=T' TOM16S AGREEMEN
imimui
Maintenance
UedHana	Stoanaur
Ths Skfli^rradesAgreciiMttas beat develop in cocpeation between Gen Oxp Canada tne^WedarviOmario. known as Tt CoRfnty and Laeat «S6. UnXed AMar. Ceik. Unoiaum and PMfc WMai» of Amarica, fcnoMn as Tiw (Mon.
1. Purpose: Th» purpose OJ Bus writ* up s
(A) To tayduam rules and regulations tor wotttngm the MamiensnceDepeifcnorii.
iBl To ervatto the Mainenarea Oeparwwrt to mwnsam pure teolrties in flood operating condition tnus beeping eqjuipm
*~»«i oxnoieia coopatadonaxiassiEtanoa between Supetvisoiy and Trada&o
The paifesjjiB that tt< M^jiiiwgncs Dfipannwil ^al pa rirjpala in >ny Connnny itwiOftd fartig progmus durtng normal wori*^ hours.
It is recognlzad (hat courses <2uriny«i employee's regular eorfcng hours «A be paid Icr at their hourty rata. Course* ma^ ate be ottered outside the empkqees normal weiliag hot** and shsi fa* paid a* Moes:
ATTENDANCE MANDATORY - Employee paid bis appiiceMe rate of fOf mdtxing premiums
OoBnBowr. QUAtff1CAT)0»SfroRSiaLlEDTRAOE8MM4
t * current Ontario CenSca* at QitaKeaKiai in the Trade aptlM far or ondrt data
WAGE SCHEDULE
SMLIED TRADES AGREEMENT
A tradesman sci be cfaasitad as o«ao»ll»tolOMW<9 and pastes »a Ontario CcrtfflattaotOiiiiMiHaino in hia
nspecfiMtode.
SMIcelTfKte at specified t>y Ortafio PftxiooaloBniBrjnansiMtfbgbK not hated loth* IcAjuuift:
MOUSTRML MBCHMfl&INUVffaGHT EUECTOICWN PLUMBER
GENERAL CARFBffSt
Tlie Cooipany ana Union asroetfeai in *ie men: at an emergency a stodeO tradesman may bo requestad to perform duties outside oS his ctataiScaSoo if irmfliciant tradesmen are atiaMde on sMt in da category in wHch soe»> emergency arose.
The daCnticmol an emergency she! consrMCI anew mam of the fotawng conations:
i.	Equipment conditions wMd> ataman the satetyol Personnel end sMe atromjbygs mu not available.
Z	tfroaMoieo or Mura otprorfciqronaqurprnenteftichwd cause g>cess»e rertueaonaixlflxstiutdoein
oi production.
u
GROUP'A-
STARTWGfiATE 1*t 7S0 hows 2nd.750hours
M. 750how* 4th. 750 haw* 5th. 750 how* 6th. 750hows 7th 750 houts
*ta2B per hour $12.77 per hour tOSpKlae $12.88 per hour $128$ per hour $t364 par hour
$1320 par hour
Thar**h»Oh*»**>Wn»onih»«rMei»o»M*Mifcaiti>tihr8KawiBar.
Toc< and Diu Msfcura final yg»r ot progression through lha Appro**** Program
Mnamanto	(tilt
APPRENTICE MA1MTEHMNCE TRADES
Upon completion ot the seventh levat ol the jporantieeshtp program progression through the tnelyoer of (he apprenticeship program $1356
Three months	$13.67
$1366
Three months	(t&H
Sac months	$146$
Sot months	$13.78
(fine months	$13.58
Tweivs months $14.02
WAGE SCHEDULE
SKILLED TRADES AGREEMBfT
NOTE: Towarant jnaeasaa in th» above rata schedUte. the AegantiO's Progress must be SaS»tacIO»)i rod* Opinion ol Technical and/or Maintenance Manager. It proper progress is not shown fay the apprentice. rare 'nxtaaas nay he bHdfti abeyance for B otaxmjtnum d two (2J 750 hour perKxf*. In Hie event this sfcuaSon occurs, it coiAJ be ennsitlerep Pul the spprerrtiee has not proven bfcnaeK putable for thi* work and KaMe IBr dfethaigei
R is understood that The Company earaxrt gwv«« steady nark, bat «# make every rwasonabfe eHcrrto suppV the
TOOL AND DCKAKBl
STARTING RATE
THUS 0) MONTHS	SUT6IHR.
stOLKhivi
S10.67/HR JOB HOURLY RATE AFTER ONE (1) MONTH
JANITOR'S RATE
MEMORANDUM OP AORBKMENT
Subject: Week-end Work Crew
This Memorandum of Agreement la supplemental to the Agreement entered into by and between Local 455, United Rubber, Cork, Linoleum and Plastic Workers of America, and GenCoip Canada lno„ Welland, Ontario.
The parties agree that it la In their mutual Interest to ensure that the Company remains competitive and reaches the highest levels of productivity possible. To this end the following understanding in entered Into.
The signing of this Memorandum ofAgreementand the understandings contained therein ehall supersede c e t tain provisions of the Collective Sargaktlng Agreement only as they apply to employees employed ee part of the weekend crew. It to understood that this Agreement la necessary to clarity the conditions and terms of employ, ment under which Individuals will work on week-end crews.
it to the Company's Into* to employ the week-end crew tor the shifts outlined below, If e week-end crew employee to to be transferred to e Monday ta Friday operation, the Company will discuss the reason for the transfer with the Union. No transfer ehall taker place without the Union Bargaining Committee's agreement.
The Company at its sole discretion may Institute weekend work shifts. The Company may unilaterally al any time disco nttnue such week-end work shifts. The normal hours of work for Individuals assigned to these shifts would be twelve (12) hours perday andtwenty-four(24) houreperweek. Employeeswhoworkthelrnormatwork week would earn twenty-tour (24) hours pay per week and such pay would becalcuiatad aa totfowe:
Twelve (12) hoursstralghttlme payforSaturday work. Twelve (la jhoursatrelght time pay kr Sunday work.
Probationary Period-
No seniority rights are recognized during the first ala (6) months which shall bathe probationary period of the 51
new employees. On completion of Hie probationary period seniority shall extend booh to date of hire.
A) Wherewarrantsdtheprabatlonary period maybe extended by mutual agreement between theCom* pany and the Union in advance of the scheduled expiration of the employee's probation period.
Pue la the unique character of the week-end crew, certain benefits and proviatona of the Agreement between the parties will be applied In a different manner as regards ta week-end crew employees.
Week-end work orew vacancies shrill be postsd for bid, but openings will be awarded to the most senior qualified employees Si each classification. Under the terms of this Agreement It is understood that "qualified shall be interpreted to mean hilly qualified for pay purposes, therefore, only fully qualified employees may exercise a shift bid or preference' to the week-end work crew,
Due ta the unique character of the week-end work crewemptoyees, thoseemployees assigned to the weekend crew will be so assigned toramlnlmum period of six (8) months and win not be allowedto exercise bid rights or shift rights for that period. The Illustration below perhaps best explains the concept.
Normal Work Week	Week-End Crew
Fiiy qualified on ——-------------» Same Job
fob (At top rate)
Same job classification	| After 6 months
l on same (ob on Another job classification	| week-end shift
Employees may exercise shift preference or bidding rights when vacancies occur except no week-end work orawemptoyees will be allowed to bid on vacancies which occur on the week-end crew In other classifications. Such employee will have first right io transfer to the regular shift schedule, if a transtorofan employee occurs from the week-end operation to the regular Monday to
Friday operation he win accrue service for pension and vacation benefits as provided by the provisions of the Collective Agreement. WaekendWorkCrewemptoyees will not be eligible to transfer to the Monday to Friday Operation wfi He Monday to Friday employees are waltln g recall from layoff.
Due to the character of the work Involved, It k anticipated thatno Inexperienced personnel wDIbaassIgned to the week-end work crow. Employees on the week-end orewwlll be permitted to trade shite with otherweek-end crew personnel only with the permission of the supervisor.
Should an employee bededaradeiirpfueandforoed to leave his classification or department In accordance with lay-off procedure, it Is understood that the employee may athlsdlscnollondisplaceaweek-sndworkshiftemployae only if ha/she is fully qualified.
Compensation
Employees worklngon the week-end workcrowwIR be paid in accordance with the rate structure established at the plant. Pay cheques wlbedistrlbuted onSaturday of each work weak.
Employees of the week-end work crew wlR normally work a twelve (12) hourshlfton Saturday and Sunday.
Payment for overtime hours worked by week-end crew employees will be paid at the rate of time and one-half for hours workedIn excess of twelve (12} on Saturday and Sundayand Inexcess of forty (40) In a work week. In addition, time andono-hsK shal be paid fr d hours worked hi excess of eight <fl> ki any wok day during the first five (5) days of the work week (Monday through Friday).
Double time will be paid for all work performed on halfdays. There will be no pyramiding of overtime.
Shift premium - for hours worked between eleven (11.00) p.m. to eleven (11:00) a.m. there shall be paid a thirty-six cents (38o) shift premium per hour.
83
A weak-arid crew employee reporting for work who has tailed to receive notice notto report and receives leas than one-half the normal work day shad be paid for not teas than one-half the normal work day at his average hourly earning* subject to the provisions of Paragraph 18:02.
A week-end crew employee called In at a time other than hie regular ehlft by reasonof emergency work shall receive at least six (6) hours pay at the straight-time rate If called in on Saturday or Sunday.
Lunch and breakparloda for the week-endcrewwlll be recognized on the basis of two (2) break periods of fifteen (15) minutes and one thirty (30) minute lunch period
Benefits
Benefits shall be ee follows: Unemployment insur-aneeCommlsslon.CanadaPenalan Plan,Worker,sCom* pensation. The Company will fclso provide Pension provisions in compliance wiih the hourly Pension Plan document and prorated ding and dental benefits. NO other benefits covered by (he Collective Agreement shall apply to the week-end crew employees.
Holiday Pay
Employees of the week-end crewwHf receive nine (5) hours pay at average hourly earnings for nine (0) statutory holidays, namely, New Veer’s Day, Good Friday, Victoria Day, Canada Day, Civic Hdilday, Labour Day, Thanksgiving Day, Christmas Day, and Boxing Oay, in lieu of having holidays off. Should a holiday fall on Saturday cr Sunday and be celebrated on such day In accordance with the Agreement, week-end employees will beisgulredtowork onsucha holiday end will receive a normal work day pay at average hourly earnings and die holiday premiumforauchwork, ThenormalholldayellflfollltyreQuirememsoftheAgrae-ment shall apply toweefamdwork crew personnel.
Vacation
Employees assigned to th* week-end work crew with the exception of maintenance personnelwill be required to take vacation during tie scheduled plant shutdown. Should their vaoatton eligibility exceed the shutdown period, they willbe paid vacation pay inf ou of time off for additional vacation perioda.
Wteian employee has been unaUeto work during a portion of the preceding year owing to sickness (excepting pregnancy) or injuiy not covered by the Worker’e Compensation Act and for these reasons only, Me vacation pay calculated inaccordancewlih Oils clause Is less than one hundredandflfty dollars ($160.00) perweakthe vac ationpayto which fie is entitled will belnoreated to the above minimum, provided ha has worked a minimum of three (3) months in the vacation year.
Jury Duty
Week-end work crew employees are Ineligible tor jury duty pay unless they are specifically required to serve on Jury duty on their normal week-end scheduled days of work. In such oaaaa, the provisions of Paragraph 16:09 shall apply.
Funeral Leave
Should a week-end work crew employee suffer a death In his family in accordance wkh Paragraph 16:07 the employee shal be entitled ta sixteen (16) hours of straight tknepay should the funeral occur Monday through Friday. It the funeral should occur on his regular shifts (Satunlay-ffunday) h# shall beoompensated tortwenty-lour(24) hours. Suchpay shat! notbeconslderad as lime worked for overtime purposes.
In witness thereof, the parties hereto, by their duly authorized representatives, have executed this Agreement at Welland, Ontario, on the 1st day of April, 1990.
LOCAL 455,	GENCORP
UNITED RUBBER, CORK,	CANADA INC.
LINOLEUM AND PLASTIC	WELLAND,
WORKERS OF AMERICA, AFL-CtOCLC.	ONTARIO
F. Houle	B. Baird
T. Oasperettl	D. Whldden
N. Lebbe	N. MeUhot
e. Martin	D. Molnar
P. Lampmon C.Solme International	T. Grano
Representative
Subject: Continuous 6-2/3 Day Schedule
This Memorandum of Agreement is supplemental to die Agreement entered Into by and between Local 465, United Rubber, Cork, Linoleum & Plastic Writes of America, Welland, Ontario, and QenCorp Canada Inc., Welland, Ontario on the tat day of April, 1990.
In order to provide the Welland plant the opportunity to become efficient and competitive, the Company and the Unton agree to enter Into die following Memorandum of Agreement.
The purpose of thle Agreement as signed by both parties wlH serve to outline the conditions of work In rotation to me 6-W3 daysfour (4) crewrotetlrtg schedule.
Basedon thle Memorandum of 5-2/3 days tour (4) craw rotating schedule the following conditions wilt apply.
Imptementatlon
The Company reserves the right, at Its soie discretion, to place any or all job classifications, as is necessary, os
86
a 6-2/3 days lour (4) araw rotating schedule. However, should it become necessary the Company reserves the right to discontinue such schedule at lb sole discretion.
Hours of Work
The normal working hoursshall be eight (8) hoursper day and forty (40) hours perweek. The normal work week shall be from eleven (11:00)p.m. Sunday to eleven (11:00)p.m. the following Sunday. The Company shall reserve the right to schedule employees on the open shift as per production and maintenance requirements dictate.
Overtime
The Company wt pay tone and one had for eH houre worked Inexcess of eight (8) ihans twenty-four (24) hour period or forty (40) etralghttime hourslR any work week. Hours that are nbtworkaddueto Union leeveofabeencee or other approved leave of absence shall be counted a8 time worked lorpurpoeee of computing weekly overtime payment,
Designated HoWsy
Should a designated holiday fall on an employee's sehBdulsd work day the holiday will be worked, If required, and the employee wfll be compensated accordingly In lieu of time off, If a designated holiday falls On an employee’s scheduled day df hewW not receives day In lieu neither shad the hours paid be used for the purpose of computing weekly overtime payment
Vacation
A calendar week Sunday through Saturday will be the vacation schedule for the 6-2/3 lour (4) craw rotating
87
schedule.
Tha signing of this Memorandum of Agreement end the understanding contained therein shad supersede certain provisions of the Collective tabour Agreement only a8thy apply to the employeesemployedas part of the 6*3/3 day four (4) craw rotating schedule.
In witness thereof, the parties hereto, by their duly authorized representatives, have executed this Agreement at Welland, Ontario, on the let dayof March 8,1983.
LOCAL4S5,	OENCORP
UNITED RUBBER, CORK	CANADA INC.
UNOLEUM AND PLASTIC	WELLAND,
WORKERS OF AMERICA,	ONTARIO
AFL-CIO-CLC	
F. Houle	0. Baird
T.Gasperettl	0. Whldden
N. Lflbtw	N. Mallhot
B. Martin	D. Molnar
P. Lampmsn	T. Grano
C.Sdme International	
Representative	
as
WELFARE AND INSURANCE
agreement
between
GENCORP CANADA INC.
LOtfAL UNION NO. 488 0?THE UNITED RUBBBR, CORK,
UNOLEUM AND PLASTIC WORKERS OP AMERICA AFL-CIO-CLC
MarchS, 1993
AGREEMENT FOR INSURANCE BENEFITS
Welfare and Insurance Agreement batween OenCorp Canada Ino. and Local Union No. 466 of the United Rubber, Cork, Linoleum and Plastic Workers of America, AFL-CKW3LC, March 8.1903.
ARTICLE]
Insurance Program
The Insurance Program described herein shall be mada effective for all houriy employees represented by the Union, {such employees and ell other employees here after represented by the Union being hereinafter referred teas pie “Employees"), on Midi 8,1983.
Section I.Qroup UfO Insurance and Non*Occupatlonal Accidentel Death and Dismemberment in* su ranee.
A. The Company will provide without coat to the employ, eea:
1.	Ufa Insurance Benefits of $25.000foreach regular full-time employee.
2.	Non-Occupational Accidental Dealh andDlsmem- '
bermant Insurance Benefits at S25.000 lor each regular full-time employee, beginning onthedate this program becomes effective, or, the date following thedateon which hecompfetee three (3) months of accumulated service, whichever la later, provided that an employee not actively al work on the date his coverage would otherwise become effective, would immediately became Insured upon return to active employmentwlth the Company: provided, however, that employees already covered underthe terminated insurance program shad be Insured hereumtBrfor the amount of U s Insurance and Accidental death and Oh-mambermant Insurance Benefits In effect under the terminated plan, until they return to active employment
3.	The foregoing shall not be construed to exclude coverage for employees who are an vacation, leaveof absence for local Union activities, in an official representative capacity, orwho are working lees than their standard shift.
4,	There will be no duplication In whole or part in payment of benefits under the terminated Insurance Program and the Insurance Program of March 8,1993.
B. The HI amount of Accidental Deathand Dismemberment Insurance Benefits shall be payable 7 a nonoccupational accident causes the loss of:
Life	One Hand and One Foot
Both Hands	One Hand and Sight of One Eye
Both Peat	One Foot and Sight of one Eye
8ight of Both Eyes
One-half of such amount stal be payable If a nonoccupational accident causes the less of one hand, one loo!, or the eight of one eye; provided, however,
that the fill amount will be paid only onca to or an account of any employee. The loss must occurwithln si (6) months afiar the accident to qualify lorbenefKs.
C. Unless otherwise specifically provided In this Para-cyaphe, all Insurance coverage under this Section i 8ha» cease on thsdateol termination of an employee's regular active employment with the Company regardless of the reason tharafor. Exceptions shall bemads with respect to such cessation of coverageonly in the following cases to the extent Indicated:
1. Owing an authorized leave of absence, exoeptlor military service coverage under this Section 1 will be continued fOraperiodnottoexcead ninety (BO)
days, except that coverage under this Section 1 ahallbeconfinued In force during theperlodofany leave of absenoe granted by the Company for Union activities for those employed by a local Union In an official or representative capacity.
(A) in tha event of lay-off:
(i) An employee who Is not eligible for Supplemental Unemployment Benefits wil have his Life Insurance Coverage end Non-Oc-cupatlonal Accidents! Death and Dismemberment Insurance Coverage continued to aie end of the calendamtonlh following die month during which lay-off occurs and <111 an employee who Is etfglbto tor Supplemental UnemptoymentBenefltewffl have hie life Insurance and Non-Oocupatlonai Accidental Death and Olemambarment insurance Coverage continued until the lest of the weeklySupplefflenlal UnemploymentStne-fits with rsspecttosuchlay-ofl Is paldor until the expiration date of six (0) months from the date of the lay-off whichever Is the shorter period.
91
{Ill) I an employee (8 laid off and is already In receipt of weekly accident and sickness benefits under this Agreement, the Lite Insurance and Non-occupadonal Accidental Death and Dismemberment insurance In respect to such employee, shall continue lorthe period to whieh he la entitled under Article 1-Section II of this Agreement but he shell not be entitled to any additional extension of his coverage during the p shod of layoff.
{IV) An employaewillhavethe privilege of continuing We Ufe Insurance and Non-occupa-ttonal Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance Cove rageathlsexpenseet the prevailing group rates fur a period of twelve ft 2)monthefromthedabhlscoverage would otherwise have been discontinued.
2. The Life Insurance (but not the Accidental Death and Dismemberment insurance) coverage of a covered employee, whobocomes totally disabled for employment after helms completed ten (10) or more years continuous service forth# Company, andwhodoaenolrecelveaaorvlce award, wlfl be continued IntheMiamountuniiiageOB. Evidence of continued total disability must be provided by the Employee at any time. If such employee receive# a service award, life Insurance coverage will be continued in the amount cf $2,600.
0. TheLlfelnsurance (but not the Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance)coverage of an Insured employee who becomes totally disabled tar employmentbefor# helms completed ten (10) years of cominuousseivtae for the Company, and who does not receive a service award, will be continued In the full amount for the period of such disability not to exceed the period of employment completed prior tosuch disability and In no event
82
to exceed five {3) years. Evidence of continued total disability mud be providedby the employee at anytime. It an employee receives a service award after complatlno at leaat five (6) years but leas than ten (10) years service, Ufa insurance coverage will beoontlnued In the amounlof S2.Q00.
4.	The Ufa Insuranoe {butnotthe Accldantal Death and Dismemberment Insuranoe) coverage of a covered employes who li retired on his normal retirement date or special early retirement or on early retirement under the the Company's Pension Plan and is entitled to a pension thereunder will be continued thereafter only inlhe amountof $8,000.
5,	The Ufe Insurance (but not the Accidental Death and OlBmembarmant insurance) coverage of a covered employee, who £ retired underthe Company's Pension Plan before hie normal retirement date because of permanent disability (an defined In aatd Pension Plan) will be continued In the foil amount until the employee attains hie normal rstfrementdate: thereafterhls Ufe Insurance (but not Ihe Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance) coverage will be continued in the amount of $8,000.
e. The terminated Life insurance Is continued for a thirty-one (31) day period during which application and payments of required premiums by Urn employee can be made to the Insurance Company toconvert any part butnotless than $600 of the full amount of terminated Ufe Insurance, The converted policy will be the type customarily issued by the Insurance carrier, except term insurance or a policy containing Disability Ben-
U. Survivor Income Benefit Insurance (A) Transition 9urvlvor Income Benefit.
The Company agrees foprovide (to other than a
93
retired employee) Transition Survivor Income Benefit Insurance in the amount of $460.00 per monthtoraperlod up toamaxlmum of twenty-four (24) montha. Such Transition Survivor Income Benefit Insurance shall be in force only after an empbyeehaahadoneyeor of continuous service wUhtheCompanyandwhllehalalnauredforNon-OccupadonalAccidental Death andOlsmember-men! underArtlcle iSeotioo 1-A-2, and only while ho has at least one eligible dependant.
(0) Payment of Transition Survivor Income Benefit. Intheeventofdeathofi n/nsuredemployeefram any cause, benefits shall be payable monthly commencing on the first day of the calendar monthfollowing thedeathof die employee, andon the first day of eachmonth thereafter unto twenty-four (24) such payments have been made oruntil there are no eligible survivors In any class of efigible survivors. If earlier, ii no event w» the maximum amount payable on amount of the deethofanyemployeeexceed$460.00 per month or$10,SOO.OO Intotal. PsymentsshaH be made to the eligible survivor or li equal shares to the eligible survivors In the first of the classes of survivors set forth In subsection (C) heroin li which there is an eligible survivor or survivors.
(9 Classes of Eligible 8urvlvora.
The classes of Eligible Survivors (also referred to herein as Eligible Dependents) and the order of qualifying for benefits are aa follows:
Class A: The spouse of a deceased employee, bu! only If legally married to the deceased for at feast one (1) year Immediately prior to this death or was a common lawspousefor no less than one (f) year Immediately priorto this death.
04
Class B: Any child of !he deceased employee, who, at the time a transition Benefit drat becomes payablelohim.febolh unmarried andunder twenty-one (21) years of age, butsuchchlld shall cease tobsa ClassB Eligible 8urvfvor upon marrying or reaching his twenty-flrat birthday.
Class C: A paientofthedeoeasad employe* for whom the employeehad during (he calendar year preceding the employee's death, provided at least fifty percent (60%) of the parenfa support
(D)	Sequence of Payment
Payments shall be made to (he eligible survivors as set forth li Subsection (C) above in the following order.
(I) Cima A eligible Survlvore,
If a Close A Eligible 8urvlvor dies or becomes Ineligible priorto the payment of the maximum numberof twenty-four (24) bene, fit payments, the right to any remaining payments shell pass in equal shares forthe balance of the maximum number of payments to any sDrvMng children who then qualify under Class B or, ifthereare none, then it equal shares lorthe balance of the maximum numberof peymentstoany surviving parents who then quality under Class C. (il) Class B Eligible Survivors.
II, after having qualified under Class B, a child merries, ord(«». Or attain* agetwanty-one (21), any remaining payments shall be divided equally among any surviving children who continue lo qualify underclass 8. After the lest child merries, dies, or attains, age twenty-one (21), any remaining pay. ments shal be divided equally among any
surviving parents who then quality under Class Q.
(ill) Class C Eligible Survivors.
f more than one (1) parent qualifies under Class C andalther parentdles, any remaln-Ingpayments shall bepayablatothesurviv-Ing parent
(IV)	No Eligible Survivor.
If no BUg Ibla Survivor of the employeequall-lits In any dess on the first of the month following die death of the employee, no payments win be made hereunder. Once begun, payments will oesse when there la. no eligible survivor In any class.
(E)	Forthe Eligible Class A survivor of en employee who was Bctively at work on or after March 8. t893 and who died since that date, the amount of the transition survivor benefit &al be $400.00 per month reduced by the amount of any survivor's Disability ofRetlrementBenefit payable underthe Canada Pension Plan orby any Old Age Security Benefits payableunder the Old Aga Security Act In accordance with the terms of such plan ana acts an may be nowin affect or hereafter amended; provided that in no event shal the monthlyTrsn-sltlon Survivor Benefit be reduced below the sum of *200.00,
For the Eligible Claaa B or Class C Survivor or Survivors of an employee who was actively at work en or after Match 8,1993 and who has died since that date, the mount of the Transition Survivor Benefit shall be $480.00 for any month for which no Eligible Survivor or Survivors of the deceased employee Is or are entitled to a Survl* vota Disability or Reifremant Benefit payable under the Canada Pension Plan rr an Old Age SecurityBenefltpayabteundertheOldAgaSecu-rity Act Jh accordance with the terms of such plan
98
and acta aa may ba now In affect or hereafter amended, andahallbereducedto$200.00for any month tw which an Eligible Survivor or Survivora Is or era entitled to such a atatutory benefit, except that lor months hi which two or more survivors shares Transit Ion Survive r Income Benefit im mediately following the death of the employee, each survivor's ehare Is computed es a fraction of the Transition Survivor Income Benefit that would be paldtohlmasasolesurvlvoraccordlngto hie own eligibility for a statutory benefit.
(F)	Survivor Income Benefits lor Class A eligible survivor age 47 or over at the time of death of employee. There shall also be payable In accordance with thetsrmsand conditions of (hie Subsection to a Claes A eligible survivor, both terms as defined In Subsection {Q above, who waa forty-seven (47)yearsofageormoreon1he date cf the employee's death and who has received twenty-four (24) monthly payments of the Transition Survivor Income Senefltprovlded InSubaectlons {A), (S) and (C) above, an additional Survivor Income Benefit of $480.00 per month (hereinafter referred ta as a Bridge Survivor Income Benefit) as follower
(I)	The Bridge Survivor Income Benefit will become payable commencing with the first month following the month lor which the twenty-fourte monthly payment of the Transition Survivor Income Benefit is-pald.
(II)	The Bridge Survivor income Benefit will cease to be paid immediately upon the occurence of:
(A) The death or remarriage of the Cnees A eligible survivor or
(a) Attainment by the Class A eligible survivor of such age at which oidAge
97
Security Benefits become payable, other than on a ’'needs" baste under any Federal or Provincial Legislation, as now In effect or hereafter enacted or amended.
(Ilf) The amountof the Bridge Survivor Income Benefits shall be reduced by any Survivor's Disability Benefit payable under the Can* ada Pension Plan, as now in effect or as hereinafter emended.
(Cl) OpdonalContrlbutory Lite Insurance-to beeffec-
lh».
(A) Employee Ufa Insurance,
In addition lo the Company-provided Sasic UfS Insurance, an ellglbte employee may elect, inwrMngonaddlmnal$13,00aofUfe Insurance on hie fife. Such Life Insurance shall be on a contributory basa The current rate of weekly contributions, which will bededucted from en employee's earnings Is $3.10, Should the retecharged by the Insurance Company for this contributory benefit be altered, the emplqyee'scon-tribution will be altered accordingly. An election b participate must be made wilhln 31 daysofbecamlng eligible orevldence of teeurabBtywHIberequIredbeftmcoverage can become effective,
Once an election to participate haa been made,anemptoyeemayoancelhlsoptlanal coverage at arty lime, In writing, but evidence of insurability will bo required if he subsequently decides to reapply for optional Lite insurance and any insurance would take effect the first of the month following election and acceptance by the insurance company of evidence of insurability.
9B
The coat, if any, of providing evidence of insurability will be the responsibility of the employee.
Thedetaile concerning total and permanent disability are the same as those pertaining totheCompan/sBasIcUfe insurance Plan as set out in Article I, Section t, A-2, of this Insurance Program Agreement ElglbMty ^participate In this Optional Iife Insurance Ptanceases upon termination of employment, retirement, or attainment of age 85 whichever occurs first, exceptthat the conversion provisions outlined InArtlole t. Section 1-C-r of this Agreement wlH apply.
The Optional Lite insurance described above shall be provided conditional upon at least 50% ofettgiblaemptoyeas applying for such coverage on or before April 1,1887.
A medical examination at the employee’s expense may be required to provide evidence of Insurability satisfactory to the carrier; If the employee doea not enroll during the enrolbnent periods described In (A) above; itan employee hired after the effective date does not enroll within thirty-one (31) days after becoming eUglble; erf the Optional Contrtoutory Ute Insurance previously terminated bscauee an employee revoked the required payroll deduction authorization or failed to make the required contribution.
(B)	Dependent Ufa Insurance,
Provided that an eOgtole employee has applied for or maintained the coverage desert b i d in (A) above, he may ea In writing Dependent Ufa Insuranceon a contributory basis, Ir the amoiint of $8,000for a spouse
and 41.000 for each dapendent child. Spouse and dependent child are as defined In Section 111, (5) of Ihe insurance Program Agreement
The current rats of weekly contribution, which will bededuoted from an employee's
earrings is $.S9. Should the rates charged by the insurance company tor this contributory benefit be altered, the employee's weekly contribution rats wilt be altered accordingly. An election toportldpatemuet be made within thirty-one (31) days of becoming eligible, or evl dence of Insurability atths expense of the employee, wilt be required before coverage can become effective.
Section It Accident Sickness Benefits for Employees
A. The Company will provide without coat to the am-
UloyesaeWy Accident end Sickness Benefits at the rate of fl 8-2/3% of the employee's averag e hourly earnfngstfmes 40 hours to a maximum cftheUIC weekly amount, S447.00, wfih a minimum payment of 4280.00 a week.
2.	Barters!.
Benefits will be paid to employees for accident or sickness not covered by a Worker's Compensation Act, whlleunderihecare ala doetorticensqd topracUcemedldne. Forpurpomofapreoedlng sentence, a doctor licensed to practice medicine means either a doctor of medicine (M.D.) or a doctor of Osteopathy <D.O.) oreOoctor of Chiropractic (D.C.).
Benefits will be payable from the first day of disability dueto un accident, or the eighth day of disability due to sickness except that the disability results In die confinement to hospital of the em-100
ptoyse or out patients surgery performed li a hospital, the benefits will be paid as, from and Including the first day of such hospitalization. Benefits wiN be paid torthe duration of the disability but not exceeding fifty-two (82) weeks of any such disability fbren employee,
Benefits far dlsabMfies due to pregnancy will be available only lithe pregnancy commences while the employees Insured underthls program, and an payable from the time the employee ceases work.
An employee shall be deemed to be totally disabled and eligible for benefits If the disability is suchthatlhe employees unable lo work, There will be no flmitfothenumber of different periods of disability lor which benettB will be paid. Periods of disability due to the same cause will be considered the same period of disability, unless separated by a return to full-time work for at least two
(2)	weeks. Periods of disability due to different causes wM be considered different periods of disability If separated by a return to fun-time work. Disabides giving rise to claims for any accident and sickness benefits may be verified by the Company by medical examination at any time, Benefits may be suspended Khe claimant fails to hava such examination made. Employees who become disabled shall notify the employing Company's Insurance department of such disability notlatarthan ten (10) days following aie first dey of the periodfor which benefits under this Section tare claimed, and sbaN give newnotlce thereof at Intervals of nomorethsnthirty (30)daysthereafter for the duration a i such disability. If any such notice Is not tlmaly Iliad, nobeneflts will bepald for periods previous to such notice unless the delay shall be shown to have been unavoidable and aatlalactory evidence of physician's care and disability £ furnished.
101
inthe event an employee'sWorker'sCompense-tlon claim Isdelaysd for s period greater than six (6) weeks or ia rejected and such claim le appealed the employee shall bo provided with the weekly Sickness indemnity Benefits providedfor under this Section, if end when the Worker's Compensation claim Is allowed for the accident the Worker's Compensation Board will first reimburse the Company to the extent of the payments made before any payment Is made to the employee,
S. Should the earnings index underthe Unemployment Insurance Act change the criteria for maxi-mumbeneflts, the Company will adjust the weekly benefit to tha extent of maintaining the minimum qualification requirements of the weekly indemnity plan for premium reducttonsunderthe Unemployment Insurance Act.
4. Eligibility for Insurance.
A. A regular full-time employee will receive coverage under thin program on the affective date or the date following the date on which he completes the required period ai eligibility, whichever is later, provided that an employee not actively at work on the detehfsoovsrage would otherwise become effective, would Immediately become insured uponhla return to active employment with me Company. Employ ess already covered under the terminated Insurance program shall be Insured hereunder for benefits Iieffsct underthe terminated plan, but there will be no duplication in whole or part in payment of benefits underthe terminated Insurance program. The foregoing shall not be construed to exclude employees from coverage wAo are on vacation, or leaveof absence for local Union activities.
102
0.	Unless otherwise BpecitIcaHy provided In this Paragraph 0, all Insurance coverage, underSeetlon II shall cease on the daleof termination of an amptoyse's regular active employment with the Company, regardless of the reason therelor. Exceptions shall be made with respect to such cessation of coverage only to the extent Indicated.
1.	Accident and Sickness Benefits w* be continued In force during a period of any reeve of absence granted by the Company for Union activity for those employed by the locel Union In an official orrsprseefttalfve capacity.
2,	It an employee £ re-employed with credit tor prior service, coverage under the plan will toe retaliated immediately. provided the probationary period had been completed prior ta layoff.
C. An employee hired after the date this program become* effective will become Insured on the date following the completion ofthree (3)monthsof accumulated service, providedhe Is actively at work on the effective date. Employees not actively at work on the effective dite will become Insured Immediately upon return io active employ-merit wilh the Company.
Section Nl Hospital Itstton, MetNoal, Surgical, and Extended Health Care.
A. Hospital and Medical and Surgical Benefits for employees and dependents.
1. Benefits will be provided by the Company and without c o a I to th e employee* as provided by the Ontario Health Insurance Organization Act (1971).
The amountof the monthly premium, the due date <£ payment end the benefit period provided by such paymentshill be such as are prescribed by the regulations of the Ontario Heatlh insurance Commission.
2.	in addition by way of a supplementary hospital benefit, the Company agrees to pay the whole of the monthly premium In respect to each employee eligible to receive this benefit from the Company, as a result ot ths enrolment of himself and his dependents, If any, In an authorized form which will provide such employee and his dependents,
If any, with reimbursement or Indemnity for the , excess of the cost Incurred by him and/or his si t rj, dependents fir hospital accomodation provided at the semt-privats rate level over the cost of 0 hospital accomodation at the standard or public ward level provided and Included In the I n-palent Insured services supplied under Ihe Hospital Services Commission Act of Ontario.
3.	For the purpose of determining whether an em-ployse of other person is eligible to have the premium or premiums referred lo in (1) and (2) above of this Section paid by the Company with respect to any particular month, such employee or person shell be deemed to be so eligible with respect lo theflret and each succeeding month in which he Is described in part B hereof as being eligible for the benefits of the plan arising oui of death, bodily Injury or sickness suffered or In* curred In such month and each succeeding month so that the Company’soblJgallon to provide ben* slits will be fully discharged by the making of the paymentofthemonthly premiumsaa aforesaid an such dates notwithstanding that the said employee or other person may not be entitled under the plans described In (1) and (2) above of this Section to receive the benefits of the services therein provided in concurrent months or sue*
104
8.1.
I
exceptions) orlts equivalent coveragethrough an insurer or carrier of He choice for its employees ( end eHgibte dependents.	q v
la,	h Is understood and agreed that the coveragefor /\ Sa eye glassee will be based on a maximum of / [v 4140.00 every two (2) years.
lb.	t is understood and agreed that the safety eyeglass program will be Instituted by the Company end allowttwamployeesto purchaaeat no cost to the employee one pair of prescription eye-wear every two (2)yeare.
fe. Coveragefor hearing aid on a one fcne only basis for employ ms 4000.00.
1d. Out of Canada Medical coverage will be provided * maw of 4100,000.00 perpersan per lifetime.
C.1- The surviving epouie of a deceased employee or of a deceased pensioner shall be given the right to purchase at hie or her own expense directly from the Insurer or Insurers providing them, the benefits described biArlfde 1, Section II I, A-2 and B-1, on a (fty-direct basis If the Company Is able to arrange such coverage vwth the Insurer on thfa basis.
a Eligibility for Insurance.
1. An employee wl# receive coverage under this program on the effective date or the dale following Ihe dele on which he completes the required period of etigfbWty, whichever a later, provided thatan employee not actively at work on the date hie coverage would otherwise become effective, would Immediately become insured upon his return to active employment with Ihe Company, Employees already covered under the terminated Insurance program ehel I be insured hereunder for
100
benefits in effect under the terminated plan, but there wilt be no duplication In whola or part in payment of benefits under the terminated Insurance program. The foregoing shall not be Construed to exclude employees from coverage who are on vacation, or leave of absence for local Union activities.
2.	An employee hired after the date of this program becomes effective will become Insured on the date on which he Is actively at work following the deieonwhlchhecompletedthreemontha service credit.
3.	If an employee la re-employed with creditlorprlor service, coverage under the plan win be reinstated Immediately, provided the probationary period had been completed prior to lay-off.
4.	Coverageforan employee'sdependentswill becomeeffective on the same date au the em-ployee'seoverage.except that If a dependent Is confined h a hospital (other than by reason of birth) when the insurance lor that dependant would otherwise become effective, foe insurance will become effective upon final discharge from the hospital.
8. An employee's dependents are:
(A) Spouse.
Spoused defined as a person legally mar-riedtotheampfoyaeorapersonoppostteln sex not married to the employee, who has been co-habiting for a period not less than one (1) year with the employee,
(8) An smployeB'sunmsrried children lesBthan twenty-one (21) years of age, The word "child" In addition to the employee's own children Includes such step-children, foster children, or other children (all unmarried) as depend wholly upon the employee loreup* port and maintenance and live with himlna normal parent-child relationship.
106
If an employee acquires a child dependent otter than by birth, legal adoption, or mar* tege, such dependent ahall not become eflglbte until three months have elapsed from the date suoh ohHd was added to the employee's Insurance record.
The employee steH complete proper insur* ance forms to be made available to him lor the recording of etigible dependents The employee shall promptly advise the Com* pany of any change In eligible dependents. Maternity benefits underfills Section III will bepaMonlytorthepregrmncfeeofa/ema/e employee or wife of an employee or de. pendent vMd that commence whfie the female employeeorthe wlfeof an employee or dependant child is Insured under this program,
(O An unmarried child 21 years to 29 years of age, who isdependant on the employeefor support and maintenance, and whole enter a full-time student or mentally or physically Incapable cf self-support, w* be entitled to Me benefits provided under Article l, Section iff, A*2 and Article I, Section ill, C.
6.	Thereshallbenodupllcationofbenefltsgnderthls Section III with respect to the Insurance of any person covered hereunder, whether such duplication would arise from a person’sstalus as an employee or dependent Ayr employes who works fir another employer, and by reason of such employment he or his dependents are covered by another employer-furnished non-contrlbutory Ontario Health Insurance Commission Plan and BlueCrosa Comprehensive Extended Health Care Planor as equivalent, shall be entitled only to the benefits of this Section 111 which are li excess of the other plan provided his credited length of service Isiesswith
t07
(he Companythanwlih the other employer, If die spouse or other dependent of an employee Is employed and, by reason of such employment, fc covered by another employer-furnished non-oon-trfbutory Ontario Health Insurance Commission Pian and Blue Cross Comprehensive Extended Health Can Plan or Ra equivalent, for himself or dependents, the amount payable under this Section III shall be reduced by the value of any benefits which are provided under euch other pian, in those cases where the husband and spouse are employed, the male employee shall be covered by the primary Insurance and Include his dependent ohlldren. The female employee shall be covered as e single individual with no dependent. Any paymentofbenefits underSeo-tion III which Is payableto a hospital or physician shell be paid directly to the hospital or physician entitled thereto.
E Termination of Insurance.
(If Except as described In this Paragraph E, al insurance under this Section Nl wilt terminate when employment with the Company terminates excspt as follows:
(A)(1) An eflfllblsemployes who is laid off wilh am or moreysars of seniority and emitted to the receipt of a Supplemental Unemployment Benefit under the SupplementalUnemploy* merit Benefit Pian with the Company shall be entitled to the Benefits described In Section III.ArtldeA andBerlsIngoutofany bodily Injury cr sickness suffered or Incurred by himself or hls dependents during the period from thedate of his lay-off that he receives weekly Supplemental Unemployment Benefits under the Supplemental Unemployment Benefits Plan with the Company or during the period ending six (8) months from the date of hls lay-off, which* 108
evens theahorterperiod, buthe shall not be entitled to the benefits deserl bed fa Section II, Article A, arising outof any bodily Injury or sickness suffered or Incurred after the date upon which the lay-off occurred.
(II) Anallgibleemptoyee whois laid off with one or more years of seniority and not entitled to the receipt of a Supplemental Unemploy-mertt Benefit under the Supplemental Urr-employment Benefits Plan with the Company. or an eigtofo employee who la laid oft with lees than one year’s seniority shall, In either case, be entitled to the benefits cb scribed fn Section III, Article A andC arising ou! of any bodily injury or afokness suffered or Incurred by himself or his dependents during the period ending upon the last day-of the calendar month following the month during whfbhthelay-oft occurs, butshall riot be entitled to benefits described in Section II, Article A, arising out of any bodily Injury or sickness suffered or Incurred after the date ifxm which the ley-off occurred,
(B)	During authorized leaveof absence except
far military service, coverage under Section lit will be continued for a period not to exceed 90 days, except lhat ai coverage wderthfa Insurance program shall becon-tlnued In torceduring the period of any leave of absence granted by the Company for Union activates for those employed by a local Union Inofficial or representative capacity.
/q Employees off work due to injury or sickness wilt continue to be insured under Sea. lion I and III, subject to the provisions of this Insurance programduringths periodic which they accumulate seniority.
109
F. 1. Employeeswho have retired and are eligible fcr a pern ion pursusnttothe Pension Plan,or employ* eea who have reached their normal retirement date and who are eligible fa r a service award, shal receive the baneflta provided for In this Section III A2 and B1 except that the dependents of such employees wilt not be covered unless they were dependants at the line of the employee's retire* merit
(A Employeeewhohaveretlredprlortothelrnonnal retirement data and are eligible tor a pension pursuant to the pension plan shall receive the benefits provided iithls Section III, A*1, A-2 and 8*1. Thepwvielona of Section Hi, A*1 shall cease when the pensioner reechos his normal retirement age et which time hospital-medical coverage wlli be as provided under the tprme of the Ontario Health Insurance Act 2, The benefits provided under this Welfare and Insurance Agreemont will not beappllcable either before or after an employee's normal retirement date for any employee who terminated employ, mentand isellgible fora deferred vested pension, or who is emfifed i o early retirement or a eervfoe award as a result of complete and permanent cloture of the Company's factory In accordance with the temw of the Agreement for Pensions and Service Awards as amended April 1,1890.
Section IV. * General Provisions
A,	fttsfurthwagreed between the parties that, so longaa the employes ison the active payrollof the Company, whereverOntario Health InsuranceCommlsslon rules end regulations conflict wild the provisions of the Welfare and Insurance Agreement; the rules and regulations of the above-named Commission will supercede the applicable provisions of the Welfare and Insurance Agrement,
110
B.	Medical Examination by the Company.
1.	Dlaablliilasgfvlng rise to elalma for any benefits under this In surance Program may bo verified by the Company by medical examination at any reasonable time. Benefits may be suspended If the claimant falls to have suchexemlnatlon made.
2.	' If any dlsputeshall arise ooncernlng thedlsablllty
of any employee, such difference shall be resolved as follows:
The employes shall be examined by a physician appointed for toe purposeby the Company. If the employee's physician and the Company's physician should disagree concerning disability that question shall be submitted to a third physician selected by such two physicians. The medical opinion of the third physician afcrexamlnaWon of the employee end consultation with the other two physicians shall decide such question, it is agreed and understood that when a third (3rd) physician'smedical opinion Is required, the Company will absorb the cost.
C.	Definition of "Physician".
1. Wherever the word "Physician" or "Doctor" is used in this Insurance program 1 shall mean either a doctor of medicine (M.O.) or a doctor of Osteopathy (D.O.) or a doctor <f Chiropractic (D.C.).
O.	TherewHI be no duplication inwhole or part, In payment of benefits under the terminated insurance program.
E All chang ea in benefitsin tNa Agreement tor Insurance Benefits are effective ApriH, 1990 and are applicable ta ail employees with the exception of those who retired prior to June 1,1M1.
P.	This InsuranceProgram as described above may be appropriately modlfledwherenecessitated by Federal or Provincial Government statute or regulation.
- Q.An Insurance Certificate or Rider shall be Issued to each employee outlining hie benefits in connection with the Insurance coverage provided hereunder,
H. The Company may alone or li conjunction with other
tit
corporations subsidiary to or affiliated with the Company, enter intoa contract or contracts with en Insurance company orinaurance companies to provldethe Insurance benefits described herein, end upon so doing, the Company shod berelievedofany individual liability to any employee of any beneficiary designated by such emplayeeatfier than tomalntaln such contract orcomracta /nforee for the duratlonof this Agreement. The employer shall be liable for benefits described in this Insurance Programwhlcharenot provided Insald Insurance contracts. In the event any dispute shal arise based on the question whether the insurance contract provides the insurance coverage hersfnsbove described,such dispute shall be subject to the grievance procedure of the Labour Agreement, including arbitration; cmitfng, however, allstepa precedi representation of grievance to the industrial Relations Department of the Company.
1. The benefits provided by this Insurance Program In Beu of any andsfl similar benefits which are or may beprovlded by any'law or laws. Any amounts required to be pa id by the Company as contributions, (axes or benefits under any law or laws providing hon-oocupatlonal Insurance Benefits shal reducetothefiill extent thereof theamount6 the Companyshallbe required ta pay hereunder, and appropriate adjustment shall be made 2h the benefits available hereunder.
I. PremlumreducHonabroughtaboui by the Introduction on January 1.1972 of the Ontario Health insurance Organization Act (1971) combining Ontario Hospital Services Commission end Ontario Health Insurance Plan shall be retained by the Company to pay the Increased premiums for improved benefits and re• fimrfc outlined in this memorandum. The improvements made Si the weekly Sickness Indemnity Payments are with the understanding that the Ontario Health Insurance Legislation will permit savings (brought about by this iegfslatfon) io be returned to
112
employees in the form of additional benefits.
J.	Inconslderatlon of the fact that !he Company/s herein' Improving benefits, the Patties hereto agree that the Company shall be entitled It retain the lull amount of any premium reduction under the Unemployment insurance Act, l.e., twelve-twelfths (12/12) of the premium reduction granted by the Unemploymentlnsur-ance Commission.
K.	The Companywill undertake to providethe benefitsof Slue Cross extended Health Care Plan or Its equivalent for aH pensioners who retired prior to and subsequent to June 1,1072.
It is understood that should any legislation come Into effect which would provide anyor all of these benefits, the Company's obligation will be reduced to the portion of benefit not afleoted by the legislation and the Company will not be responsibletar any rebate payments, to the pensioners.
ARTICLE II
Duration end Termination
1,	Subject io the approval of this Agreement by the Company Bnd by theloca! Union, this Agreement shall becomeeffsotlve on MarchS, 1993.
2,	This Agreement constitutes a settlement for the duration of this Agreement of all Issues with respecttotoe sub|ect matters covered hereby,and, while this Agreement continues in effect, the Company shall have no obligation to negotiate or bargain with any local Union with respect toarvy subject mattercoveredhereby, nor shall there beany strike or work stoppage with respect to such matters.
3,	This Agreement shad continue In force until midnight, May 31.1986, and thereafter shall renew Itself for yearly periods unless written notlceofdesire to amend this Agreement is given by either the Union or the Company to foe other notless then sixty (00) days, or
113
mora than ninety (SO) days prior to the expiration data of the original term or any renewalterrh. lithe event such notice la given, negotiations shall begin within fifteen (15) daya unless otherwise mutually agreed. If negotiations are in! satisfactorily concluded prior to said expiration date, this Agreement shallcontinue In ftill force and effect thereafter, subject to the right of either the Union or the Company to terminate this Agreement, by giving ninety (BO) daye written notice to the other.
4.	IntheeventofthersfusaloftheBoardcf Directors of the Company I o approve this Agreement on or before the 1st day of December, 1893, or in the event that this Welfare and Insurance Agreement is terminated pursuant to Section III of this Article II, either the Union or the Company may apply to the Ontario Labour Relatione Board for permission to lermlnateenyCoHocilve Labour Agreement then In effect and the other party shall Join b such application. If, subsequent to notice of termination of such Collective Labour Agreement or subsequent loterminatlon of this Agreement the parties settleanydiffarencebetweenthemandlhlsAgree. mantle reinstated or a successor Agreement Is made then such Collecttve Labour Agreement, Iftermlnated, shall be reinstatedtb continue in full force until subsequently terminated according to Its provisions as contained therein.
In witness thereof, the parties hereto, by their duly
authorized representatives, have executed this Agreement at Welland, Ontario, on the 0th day of March 1893,
114
LOCAL458,
'UNITED RUBBER, CORK, LINOLEUM AM) PLASTICS WORKERS OP AMERICA, AFL-CIO-CLC
F. Houle T.Gaaparettt N, Labbe 8. Martin P. Lampman C, Sdme International Representative
GENCORP CANADA INC. WELLAND, ONTARIO
B. Baird D.WhWden
N.	Mallhot
O.	Molnar T. Grano'
116
DENTAL CARE PLAN
11> understood lint, effective the first of the month following the date of ratification, arrangements will be made to provide tor all eligible employees and their dependents, dental coverage outlined In the Excelsior Dental CarePlan, or any other carrier of the Company’s choice which Is Identical to Blue Cross Dental Plan ft7, which is based on the 1980 Ontario Qantal Association Fee Guide.
Furthermore, the Excelsior Dental Care Plan #7 will be effective ae of the first of the month following the date of ratification foraltemployeesandthefrdependentsetlgfble for benefits under theWelfare and insurance Agreement who were actually atwork on orafterthe date of ratification. Newemployeashlredetiertheaffactivedateofthia coverage will become eUgfole for coverageaccording to Article I, Section III • D - 2 of the Welfare end Insurance Agreement Benefits ofthe Basic Plan will apply to retlrants who are otherwise eligible provided their pensions become effective on or after June l, ?978 end they were actively at work an or afterthat date.
On October 1, 1978 the Excelsior Riders fit and #2
Identical to Blue Cross Riders 01 and #2 became effec-We, On the first day of the month following ratification of the G.L.A. the Excelsior Rider U4 will become effective. Benefits relative to Excelsior Riders IM end #2 will become effective for eligible employees and their de-pendentsaccordmg to the Welfare and Insurance Agreement provided they were actively at work on or after the afteefivedateoftheintroductlonoftheRldars. The Riders will also apply from date of Introduction ta those persona retired on or after June 1,1978 provided they were actively at work on or after June 1.1978.
Benefits relative to Excelsior Rider #4 will become effective for eEgibteemployees and their dependenisaccord-ing to Ihe Welfare and Insurance Agreement provided they wersactively at work on orallerthe effective date of the introduction of (he Rider. The Rider will also apply
from date of Introduction to those persons retired on or after Junel, 1084provided Iheywere actively atwork on or after June 1,1984.
Effective March8,1983, the 1992 O.D.A. Schedule win become effective for all employees. This 1992 O.D.A. Schedule will also apply from the date of introduction to those persons retired an orefter March 8,1993, provided they were actively at work on or after March 9,1993. Effective June 1,1984 the 1999 O.D.A. Schedule will become effective for all employees. This 1993 O.O.A. Schedule wH also apply from the date of introduction to those persons retired on or after June 1,1994, provided thy were actively at work on or alter June 1, 1994. Effective June 1,1998 the 1994 O.D.A. Schedule will became effective for aN employees. This 1994 O.D.A. Schedule win also apply from the date of Introduction to those persona retired on or altar June 1,1994, provided they were actively at work on or after June 1,1994.
The Denial Plan wHI be tnoludad In the Welfare and Insurance Agreement butwlli be attached as a separate addendum.
in witness whereoltheparties hsve execirtedthls Agreement this 1st day of March 8,1993.
LOCAL486,	GENCORP
UNITED RUBBER, CORK, CANADA INC. LINOLEUMANO PLASTIC WELLAND, WORKERS OF AMERICA,	ONTARIO
AFL-CIO-CLC
F. Houle
T.Gasperettl
N.Ubbe
B.	Martin
P. Lampman
C.	Sdme International Representative
8. Saint D. Whlddan N. Makhot D. Molnar T. Grano
117
PENSION PLAN AND SERVICE AWARD
Agreement dated March 0,10# between QenCorp Canada Inc., Welland, Ontario, hereinafter called die "Company” and the United Rubber, Cork, Linoleum and Plaatlc. Workersol America, APL-CIO-CLC, local Union No, 45S, hereinafter caled the "Union".	'
118
ARTICLE!
Btnsflte and Obligations
Paragraph 1:01
The Pension Plan and Service Awards of the General Tire and Rubber Company of Canada Limited, Industrial Products Division, effective as of December 1,1960 set forth In the Agreement April 1,1956, between ihe parties thereto amended effective as of December t, 1969, December 1, 1964, December 1,1967, December I, 1970, Junel, 1972, June 1,1976, June 1,1978, June 1, 1981, June 1,1984, April 1,1997, April 1,19901s hereby adopted between the parties hereto as further amendedeffecbve as of Much 6,1999, as it employees (as defined h the Pension Plan) retiring op or after that date so that the Peneion Plan and Sarvlca Award Agreement between the partie8hereto shall read as tolows.
Paragraph 1:02
The Company agrees that prior to midnight June 1,1996, It will not modify amend or terminate the Pension Plan or Service Awards aa emended, insofar os they apply to employees in such Bargaining Unit, and, further, that so long thereafter as this Agreement continues it effect, the Company shall continuato matte the PenalonPianand
Service Awards, as amended, available to all employees in such Bargaining Unit.
Paragraph 1:03
Both parties agree (hat the Pension Plan arid 8ervtee Awards, as emended, constitute full set' tlement of all Pension and Seivfce Award demends by tile Union, and that any and alt other Pension Benefits, Service Awards or plans heretofore provided or made avwMeWe for any of the employees of the Company may be withdrawn, suspended, discontinued or cancelled without In
any case consulting with the Union and without giving rise to or causa for any grievance or any charge of unfair labour practice.
Paragraph 1:04
It la understood that thePenalon PlanandService Awards may be made available to any other persons employed by the Company or by any subsidiary oramRatedcorporalion. tfdeslrablefbr the sound and efficient operationof the Pension Han, necessaryrecords may be consolidated by the Company and notkapt separately fir partteu-lar grouped employees.
Paragraph 1:09
A report will be prepared annually covering the operations of the Pension Plan and the Union Shell be lurnlshed with copies (hereof. From time to time during the tern) of this Agreement, the Union shafl be furnished such additional Information as shall be reasonably 'required for the pur. pose of enabling It to be property informedeon-earning the operationof the Pension Plan insofar as 1 effects the employees.
Paragraph 1:09
All of the commitments made by Ihe Company In Ihia Agreement are contingent upon and sub|eot
toe
(A)	Receipt by the Company of a written ruling by the relevant tax authorities sa the Company may deem necessary loestabllah that the Company Ib entitled to deduct the amount of Itscortributlona to the Pension Fund as an expense before taxes under the provisions of the Income Tax Act, or any other applicable tax laws as now in effect ores hereafter amended or adopted.
(B)	Obtaining authorization from ihe Board of
120
Oirectorsand the Shareholders of the Company-for the eitablishrnent of the Pension Plan and Service Award Agreement
Paragraph 1:07
The following terms, wherever used Inthie Plan, shall have the meanings set forth below, despite any definitions at vadanoe therewith in any other document:
1.	“Actuarial Equivalent" means a benefit hav-
'	Ing, atthe dais of determination an actuartally
equivalent value whan computed attherate of interest last adopted by the Pension Board on the recommendation of the actuary retained by ths Penalon Board.
2.	"Company' maans QanCorp Canada Inc
B.	"Commuted Value* means the value cateu-
lated In the prescribed manner and w of a fixed date of a pension, a deferredpansion, a pension benefit or an ancillary benefit,
4. “Continuous Service," "Credited Service," “Service" or “Seniority” mean an emptoyee'e record of unbroken service which shall be equivalent to hla continuous service with the Company and Ita predecessors of the General The A Rubber Company of Canada Limited, Industrial Products Division, Mansfleld-Donffl an General CompanyUd., as it appears on hie seniority record maintained by the Company In conformity with the Collective Labour Agreement between the Company and the Union effective April 1,1981, with reaped io any former employee of Joseph Stokes Rubber Company Limited Including any employee of the Company acquired by it prior to July at ,1981, continuous service shad include service withsucttcampanlesprfortoJulyaf, 1981,
121
which continued after that date with the GeneralTira&RubberCompanycf Canada Limited, Industrial Products Division, Mansfleld-Danman General CompanyUm-dad, and subsequent thereto with me Company
(A} Contlnuouieervlce or seniority is broken In accordance with the terms of the Collective Labour Agreementbe-twsan the Company and the Union effective March 8,1993.
&.	"Effective Date"of the Plan means Decem-
ber 1, 1938.
6.	"Employee* meanBtny poisonwho le regularly employed by and rendering service to 9te Company on a full time or pan time basis, and who Is a person to whom, or Is a member of a group* of per sons ta wham the benefits of this Plan have been made and continue to be available by designation by the Company, but the term does not include any person engaged on a temporary, probationary or casual basis.
7.	"Employing Company" means:
(A) The Company;
(6) AnyparttdpatingeubsIdlaryCompany, but only fors period of time lor which it has been designated aa such by the Company;
(Cl Any corporation or bualnass which after the effective date of this plan Is merged into or consolidated with, or substantially all of whose assets are acquired by the Company or any par. defeating subsidiary company or any such corporation or business, and Is designated ail an employing Cam-party by the Company;
(D)	Any parent of the Company; or
192
(E)	Any other subsidiary of e parent of the Company.
8.	"Normal Retirement Date" meera the (tret day of thecalendar month coinciding with or next following the sixty-fifth birthday of an employee;
9.	"Other Pension" means any pension or payment In the rwtttire of oron account ofa pension tom any source or fund to whlchar employing Company or any subsidiary or any predecessor thereof she* have directly or Indirectly contributed; but this term does not Include:
(A) A pensionto lie paid pursuant to Ihe provisions of this Plan; or {S} A pension payable pursuant to the provisionsotany privets pianadopted by an employing Company subsequent to Ihe effective date of this Plan whloh specifies that pensions thereunder shed notbededuoted from benefits payable underlie Plan,
10.	"Pension Board" means the Board constitutedunder Article VltosdrrinlslBr the plan.
11.	"Pension Oats” means the first day ofthe month li which the employee retiree In accordance with the termsoftheptan or the drat day of the month In which the employee's permanent disability is finally established. provided the employee's written application la received by the Panslon Board not later than the end of the month following the month of such retirement or establishment of permanent disability; otherwise the pension dates shall be the first day ofthe subsequent month hi which said written application Is received by the PensionBoard.
12.	"Pensioner" or “Rettont* means a person who has retired and has beengrantedpen-
123
don benefits in accordance will) this Flan.
13.	“Permanent Disability" or “Permanently Disabled* lor the purpose of (his Plan means:
(A)	thata parson has been totalfy disabled
by bodily Injuiy of disease as certified by e qualified mediaal practitioner so as to presumably wholly prevent him during the remainder of his life from meeting the Job requirements of any Jab in the bargaining units; and
(B)	that such total disability shall have continued for a periodof not loss than six (3) consecutive months.
14,	"Plan " means the Pension Plan as set forth herein end as modified or amended from time to tint
II. "ServlcsAmid" means any service allowance or payment of a similar kind by an employing Company. .
16.	"SpousB'meansskherofamanandwoman
who,
(A)	are married to each other, or
(B)	are not married to each other and are living together in a conjugal relationship,
(I)	continuoi/»(y lor a period of n ot lees than one year, or
(I) in a relationship of soma permanence, if they are the natural or adoptive parents of a chiid, bothas defined mtbefamllyLawAct, 19B6.
17.	"Statutory BanefltDate'shallmeanthedate at which any benefit becomes payable on an unreduced basis under die provisions of the Old Aga Security Ad, Canada.
1B, “Statutory Bensflt" means the amount of any old age or disability benettt payable underany Federal and/or Provincial Legislation now in effect or under any future 124
Federalcr Provincial Legislallonamendlng, superseding, supplementing or In corporal* Ing existing Federal and/or Provincial legislation to which a pensioner shall be or upon eppflcatlon would be entitled; provided that such term does not Inckide Worker’s Compensation or a benefit payable pursuant to occupational disease laws or a benefit payable one "means test" basla or solely on account of blindness or service hi the Armed Forces or other National 8ervice or a benefit payable to or in respect of dependentaora benefit payable under the Old Age Security Act, Canada
19.	"Subsidiary' means any corporation of whose outstanding voting stock mora than fifty percent (80%) la, at the time in question, owned directly cr indirectly by the Company or anothersubsldlary.
20.	Trust Agreement" meana any agreement by andbetwaenlhe Company end a True* tee under the terms of which a trust fund Is operatedfbr the purposes of providing the benefits of this plan.
21.	"YearsofCredited $ervice"meanstheyaan and fractions thereof, computed h tvwfflha to the nearest calendar month, of an employee's period of continuous service.
ARTICLE R Retirement
Paragraph 2:01
An employee who subsequent to the effective date of the Plan shall have reached his normal retl remert d els shall retire and after Ms retirement receive a pension determl ned Inaocordence with Article III of the Plan,
128
Paragraph 2:02
An employee who shell have completed at least ten (10) full yean of credited service and who shall become, through some unavoidable cause, permanently disabled after the effective date of the Plan, aheH be eligible lo retire and after hie retirement to receive a pension, comma ncl ng not eerller then the seventh month following the occurrence of the disability determined In accordance with Artists III of this Plan, A pension for permanent dlsafaWItv shall cpnHnueonlvsolona as the pensioner shall continue to be permanently disabled. Disability shall be deemed to have resulted from an unavoidable causa, lor the purpose of tWe phut, unless It (I) was contracted, suffered or Incurred while the employee was engaged In, or resulted from hie having engaged In, a criminal enterprise, or (II) resulted from a wilfuSy aeff-lnfflcted Injury, Permanent dlaabity resulting from any such enumerated cause or exclusively from military service after the effective detect the Plan which prevents him from retuml ng to employmentand for which he receives a pension from the Federal or Provincial government shall not entitle the employee to a pension under this Paragraph. A continued existence of permanent disability maybe verified by the Company by medical examination at any time prior to the employee's normal retirement date and should the pensioner refuse to submit to msdlcsl examination, any pensiongranted underfills Paragraph shall be discontinued until withdrawal of the refusal.
[A) llafterhiaratfrementondlsabilltyretlrement but before hie normal retirement dele, a pensioner shall cease to be totally and permanently disabled or D he shall beable to meet the job requirements of any job fri
129
the Bargaining Unit, hisdlsabltlty retirement may be terminated at the Company's option, and, if ao terminated by the Company upon hie prompt application, he shall be rehlred In a capacity consistent with his seniority and hie physical andmentalablHty. If the former pensioner shall be rehlred, he ahaH be credited upon subsequent retirement, with the credited service ha had at the time of Ms disability retirement, and shall accumulate further service from thefime he Btarts to work after Ms rehfre.
Paragraph 2:03
An employee, who qualifies and applies for early retirement, special early retirement, or normal retirement, but is absent due to physical disability or lay-off or approved leave of absence which commenced subsequent to the effective date of the "Plan', shall bs eligible to receive a pension provided that his service is no! broken in accordance with Article I of this Agreement,
ARTICLE ill Pension Amount
Paragraph 3:01 - Normal Retirement
{A) The monthly amount of any pension payable under thla Plan to an employee retiring on Ms normal retirement date shall be;
(1)	A basic monthly pension for Kfe calculated as follows:
(I)	The first fifteen (18) years of credited service st twenty two dotiamand twenty five cents ($22.28) per month for each year of credited service.
(II)	The second fifteen (18) years of credited service et twenty lour dollars and twenty five cents ($24.26) per month for each year of credited service.
127
(Ill)	All credited service In excess of thirty (30) years of credited service at twenty five (tollers and seventy five cents (928,78) per month lor each year of credited service.
The above amounts are payable to ait employees retiring on or after March 8, 1993, and
(2) (A) A type A supplementary pension payable with each monthly paymentof the Basic Pension up to and Including the payment for the month in which the statutory benefit date occurs, the amount of such supplementary pen* slon to be thirteen dollars ($13.00) if ratlranient takes place on or after March 8,1983.
The applicable supplementary pension stall be multiplied by the number of years of credited service if) to a maximum of thirty (30)years of service, end
(8) A Type B supplementary pension pay. able with each monthly payment of the Basic Pension from and including the payment for the month following the month in which the statutory benefit date occurs, the amount of such supplementary pension to be$4,30 multiplied by the number of yearn of credited service 141 to a maximum of thirty <30) yearn of such service less the statutory benefit, lees the deductions provided tor in Article IV.
(C)	An employee msy retire with thirty (30) or more years of service with an unreduced pension. Pension Plan Supplement shall not be reduced tor taking Canada Pension Plan early, or
128
becoming eligible /or such,
Paragraph 3:01
(B) Incalculaling the supplementary pension payable underthe pravlsionsof Paragraph 3.-01 {A) (2) (B) for an employee eligible to receive a statutory benefllfromthedateofhls retirement,themonthfy amounts to which he la so entitled from and after retirement (or would be except for an act or a failure to act by him or by another an his behalf) constitute the monthly amounts of Me statutory benefit for thepurposes of the Planandarenotto be affected by any Pension Index, Earnings Indew, or other similar escalation in the statutory benefit altar Ms retirement.
Incalcufatlng the supplementary pens Ion payable underthe provisions of Paragraph 3:01 (A) (2) (B) for an employee who Is not eligible to receive a statutory benefit from the date of retirement, but from soma future dale upon attainment of his statutory benefit date.
(1)	The statutory benefit Is to be deemed to commence at the normal earliest date of eligibility therefor;
(2)	The monthly amounts of statutory benefits are to be determined on the basis of the laws, regulations, rules and practices in effect et the date of retirement;
(3)	Such amounts of statutory benefits are not to be affected by;
(I) any pension Index, earnings index, or o#w similar escalation In the statutory benefit after retirement, and
(II)	anychangeln laws,regulations, rulee a practices taking effect after retirement, and
(III)	any change in benefit due to earnings afterretirement, and
(IV)	anyactorafafiuretoactby himor by
129
another on Ms behalf,
(4)	No account is to bo taken of any option to receive a statutory benefit in a reduced amount on account of receiving it prior to normal earliest data of eligibility therefor and the statutory benefit and the earliest dale of eligibility therefor are ta be deter* mined ae if such option had not been and could not be exercised but a statutory benefit an account d disability le not to be construed as an option to receive a statutory benefit Inareduced amount on account of receiving It at an earlier age.
(a) The employer may use an estimated statutory benefit designed to protect the plan against overpaymentand tothatand it may be determined as if the pensioner had been In foil-time active employment with the Company from and Including the first dey of January 1966 up to the date of retirement,
Paragraph&Of
(O 1.	Provided that if the pensioner makes apptl-
cation for his actual statutory benefit within twelve {IS) monthsof his first data of eligibility for such statutory benefit and furnishes evidancs, satisfactory to the employer that
(I)	The earliest date of eilg Ibllty for statutory benefit anticipated by the employer le in advance of the actual earnest date of efigMly therefor, and
(II)	The deferment from the anticipated date to the actual date is not due to
(A)	anyaotorfalluretoaotbyhlmor by another on his behalf, or
(B)	any change in taws, regulations, rules or practices taking effect after hie retirement.
130
The earliest date of eligibility ot statutory benefit ia tobecorracted, the monthly amount of his statutory benefit are to be re-estl-mated and his pension bto be recalculated according.
2, Purtherprovidedthatlfthepensfonermakss application to the employer for use of his actuel statutory benefit within twelve (12) months of his mafest date of eHglbity tor toe statutory benefit and furnishes evidence, satisfactory to toe employer that
(I)	the amounts of his statutory benefit differ byetfsast$1.00 per month from the estimated amounts of statutory Pen eftt, and
(II)	such difference does not result from any act or failure to act by him or by another on his behalf.
His application for use ol actual statutory benefit la to Ae accepted by the employer and Ms pension Is to be recalculated accordingly but taking into account toe provisions of Paragraph 3:01 (B) (1) of Article III,
Paragraph 3:02 • Disability
The monthly amount of pension payable to an employee retiring due to a permanent disability In accordance with Paragraph 2:02 of Arttcfsllof this Plan shall be or the basis of ssrvlcs credited in accordance with the Collective Labour Agree-mentthcbesicamountandsupplefnsrtaryamount shall be calculated as tor normal retirement and shall be payable from the date he ceases to receive remuneration from the Companyor draw weeklylndamnltybeneflta. Suchmontoly disability pensions shell be subject to the deduction a described In Article IV of tola Agreement. The' supplementary amount will cease lobe paid under the same conditions as set out In Paragraph
131
3:01 of Article III oI this Plan. An employee who applied and qualifiesfor a disability pension under thfs Plan shall not be eligible lor any other pension under any other section or article of this Agreement
Paragraph 3:03 - Special Early Retirement
(A) An employee whohas attained age sixty-two (62) and hasten (10) or more yean of credited service or an employee who has attalnsd age fifty-five (60) butnotagesMy-two{62) saxlwhohaethlrty (30) or mors years of credited service may retire a! the option of the employee on <r after the effective date of the pension pian and prior foN* normal retirement dote and shall be entitled to a pension upon h!» retirement. Such pension shall been immediate pension, tho’monthly amountof which as to the basic and supplementary pensions aha# be computed as If he were a pensioner entitled toapensionatnormairetirementdate and with the crafted service which hehae at the date of such early retirement. The payments shall be subject to tea deductions provided tor in Article IV and Shan continue as to the basic pension to be peld monthly throughout the Astons of the early pensioner but the supplementary pension will bu reduced It accordance with the provisions sat forth In Paragraph 3:01 of Article ill,
<B) Anemployee; who has thirty (30) or more years of credited service, may retire on or after the 1st day ai April, 1993 and is allgfole lor a Special Early Retirement Pension upon his retirement.
2. Such Special Early Retirement Pension la to be calculated as ta the baste portion and thp supplementary portions, ki the aame manner ae for normal retirement
Paragraph 3:04 • Early Retirement
(A) Anemployeewhoha9ettalnedagesixty(60)end
132
hasten (10) or mom years of credited service or has attained age IWty-flwe (SB) but not age sixty (00) and whose combined years of age and years of cred&ed service (being computed to completed months for a fractional year in each case) jhall
date of this Agreement and prior to tile normal retirement date and shall &esntMed toa pension upon his retirement
(B) The pension payable uponan early retirement in aocordsnoewltheubaeotione (A) and (B) of Para* graph 3:04 of this Article III shall consist of either; (I)	A deferred monthly pension baaed upontils
credited sendee at the date of inch early radrament and computed as to the basic andsupplementary pensions inaecordanea with the provisions of Paragraph 3:01 of Article III, the payment of which shaH commence with the first day of the month coincident with or next following the month in which the employee attains sbdy-two (63) years of age and payments of which shall be Bubjsct to the deductions provided for in Artfote IV and shall continue as I o die basto pension to be paid monthly throughout foe lifetime of (he early pensioner, but the supplementary pension will ba reduced In accordance with the provisions sat forth in Paragraph &01 of Article ilt, or
Paragraph 3:04
(B) (II) Animmedlatapension, themonthly amount of which as to the basic end supplementary pensions shall first be computed as If he were a pensioner entitled to a pension at normal retirement date not subject to the deductions provided for an Article IV and with the credited service wblcn h e has at the
133
date of such early retirement but each payment of such pension, whether becoming payablebnfora, during, orafterthemonthln which he is first eligible for any statutory benefit, shallbereduced,for each complete month to elapse from hie	retirement until
the earlier of the first day of the month coinddentwith or next following the month in which he attains sixty-two (62) years of age or the first day of the month coinddent with or next following themonthinwhich he would have completed thirty (30)yearsof credited service had he not retired, by 4/ 10ths of 1 % of the amount so computedfr the first monthly payment before deductions and the paymentsa8so reducedshall then be subject to the deductions provided fr in Article IV and shall continue as to the basic pension to be paid In he reduced amount monthly throughout the lifetime of the early pensioner, but the supplementary pensionwill be reducedlnaccordancewith the provisions setforth in Paragraph3:01, of Article III.
The above deductions, other than those provided for in Article IV, shell not apply to the basic pension of en employeewho has attained age 56 butnot age 62 and who has 30ormorebutleasthan37years of credited servloe.
(C)	An employeewho has attained age fifty-five (55) but not age sixty (60) end hasten (10) or more years of credited service, may be retired at the option ofthe company or undermutually ssllsfac-tiy conditionsand In either such event shall be entitled to a pension upon his retirement. Such pension shall consist of an Immediate pension, the monthly amount of which as to the basic and supplementarypensions shall becomputedas if
134
he were a pensioner entitled to a pension at normal retirement date and with the credited service which he has at the dale of early retirement The payments shall than be subject to the deductions provided for in Article IV and shall continue as to the basic pension to be paid throughout the lifetime of the early pensioner but the supplementary pension will be reduced in accordancewith the provisions set forth I n Paragraph 3:01 of this Article III.
Paragraph3:0S • Deferred Vested Pension
(A) Any employee with continuous service with the Company whose services with the Company are terminatedafterthe effective date of this Pension Plan, and who has two (2) or more years of credited service at the date of termination of employment, but is ineligiblefor eithera pension orservlceawardshal, uponappllcatlon not earlier than sixty (60) days priorto his normalretirement dale, be considered a pensioner for the purpose of the Pension Plan but for no other purposeand shall be entitled to his vested interest In the Pension Plan (but no other benefits), commencing with the later of (t) the monthfollowing that in which he attains age slxty-flve (85), or (2) the month following that in which application is made therefor.
'Nevertheless, ifapplicationfor pensionis made after the former employes has attained age 65 and such former employee had attained age 46 prior to terminating employment, he will also receive retroactive monthly pension payments for the period fromhianormal retirement dateto the date his application is received."
Then will beno liability for the paymentof interest or fr any delay in payment unless and until application has been made, The monthly amount of such payment shall be computed as ifhe were
139
a pensioner entitled to a pension at normal retirement date with the credited service which he had atthedateofthetermlnatlon ofhisservice with the companyandehall apply onlytothebasicpension described inParagraph3;01 of this Article III and the payments as so computed shall then be subject to the deductions provided for inArtide III. (8) ifsuch employee Is subsequently re-employedby theCompanyandsubsequerrtlybecomesellglble for a pension on retirement the amount of his benefitinduding deferredvested pension will not exceed the amount he would have been entitled to hadhis credited service with the Company both before and afterre-employment beencontinuous. (C> the provisions dealing withdeferred vested pension in each previous Pension Plan and Service Award Agreement betweentheCompanyandthe Union shall continue to apply to an employee whose employment was terminated during the currency of each such Agreement
Paragraph 3:06
Eachpenslonshallbepald in month Installments commenting on the Ant day of the month following or coincident with the date of retirement, and the last monthly installment shall be payable during the month inwhich the pensioner's death shall occur. At the discretion of the Pension Board, the last monthly installment of a pension payableunderthlsPianmay, inthe event of death ofapenslonerpriortoreceiptofsuchlnstallments, bepaidtothesurvlvlng spouseorother dependents of such pensioner.
Paragraph3:07 • Optional Form of Normal Pension
(A)	The basic monthly pension payable for life to an employeeretlrlng underthe pianonnormal retirement, disability retirement, early retirement or special early retirement or on the retirementof a
136
former employee entitled to a deferred vested pension, lees the deductions provided for in Ar-tlole IV shall be guaranteed for five (6) years from the dateof his retirement and shall bepaidinsixty (80) consecutive monthly payments from such date, during his lifetime and after his death the balance remaining, if any, of such sixty (60) consecutive monthly payments shall be paid to the benefidaryof such deceased pensioneror, if none, to Ms estate.
(B)	An employee has the right, by noticeinwrltlng on aform provided by the Company and submitted to the Company on or before the employee's 60th birthday,orafter the employee's 60th birthday but prior to the date the employee leaves active employmentand before horeachesage sixty-five (85) and accompaniedby evidenceofgood health satisfactory to the Company to elect that, If and when he becomes entitled to a pensionfollowing normal retirement end without affecting his supplementary pension a the deductions from his pension, hislifetimebasicpensionbefbrededuo-tionsshallbeconverted Into a reducedpensionof equal actuarialvalueas determined bythe Company payable for a ten (10) or fifteen (15) year term, as specified insaid noticeof electionandfor the employee's remaininglifetime, if any.
(C)	Anemptoyeevthohasmadeanelectionpursuant to this Article, may, aianytimepriorto age sixty-five (65) revokethe election by submining written noticedsuchrevocatlontotheCompany but may notthereafter make an election underthis Article. An election madeby an employee pursuanttothis Article shall be inoperative and ineffective in the event of the death of the employee priorto retirement Where an election pursuanttothis Article comes into effect and the pensioner dies priorto the month of expiry of the term certain elected, payments of the acfuartally equivalent pension,
137
butnotthesupplementarypension, will bemade tothepensioner'sbenefldary, If any, otherwiseto hisestate, from and Including the monthfoilowing thepsnslorter's death to and indudingthe month of expiry of the tarn certain elected. The estate of a pensioner <r of a beneficiary shall have the right at any time vilien entitled to receive any payments pursuant to this Article, to elect to receive in lieu of the remaining payments to the estate, a lump sum settlement equalto the commuted value to be determined on the basis of Interestatsuch rateas may bedeterminedbythe Company.
Paragraph3:08 • Beneficiary
(A) Subject to the provisions of this Section, an employee or penskmerwho has attained the age of twenty-one (21) years, who is domidled in and ordinarily a resident In the Province of Ontario, maydealgnate e benefidaryrr a newbenefidary to receivethe payments, ilany, to bemade under this plan after his death. An employee or pensioner who hasdesignatedabeneflclary ora new beneficiary pursuant to this Artide may revoke any such designation.
(E)The right to designate orto revoteadsslgnation of a beneficiary pursuant to Paragraph3:08 (A) of this Article Is to be exercised by the Execution by the employee or pensioner and by delivery to the Board of an instrumental writing which expressly providesthatthe designation or revocation whichever is the case, k made with reference to this Plan.
(C)	Upondellvary to the Board, priortooronorafter the death of the employee or pensioner, of a designation or revocation of a designation of a beneficiary made pursuant to Paragraphs 3:08 (A) and (E) of this Article, the designation or revocation, evenifit B contained ina will orin an
138
Instrument purportingto be a will, relates back to and has effect as and from the date of its execution but without prejudice to this Company on account of any payment or payments made underthisplan priorto such delivery.
(0) Where an employed or pensioner is not permitted to make a designation underthe provisions ofthis Article, any payments to be made with respect to him after his death, will be madeto his estate. No provision of the Pension Plan Is to be construed as taking away any rights of such an employee or pensionerto direct hcrw his monies received by his estate are to be distributed or otherwise dealt with by his personal representatives.
(E) ttatwlthstandlng the designation <r rights of any beneficiary, wheretheemployeehasaspouseat the dateof death, any benefits payable underthe Plan shall be payable to the spouse and the administrator of the Pianshall befully discharged' of ail liabilities tor benefits paid to that spouse, subject only to any other claims by a former spouse which has beenprevlously recorded with the PlanAdministrator.
Paragraph 3:09 • Pensioner Unable to Care for his Affairs
If the Board finds that any pensionerto whom a pension is payable from the Pension Fund is jnableto care far hisaffairs becauseof illnessor accident, any payment due (unless a prior daim therefor shall have been made, by a duly ap-pointedguardian, committeeor other legal representative) may be paid to the spouse, a child, a parent, or a brother or Bister, or to any person deemed by the Board to have incurred expense for such pensioner. However, the Board shall endeavour to give effect to the wishes of the pensioner In this respect when such wishes shall have been expressed in writing by the pensioner beforeheshallhavebeocmeunableto carefor his
138
affairs, Any such payment shall be a paymentfor the account of the pensioner and shall be a complete discharge of any liability underthe Plan therefore.
Paragraph3;l0 • Spouse Option
Notwithstanding any cf the provisions <£ this Pension Plan and Service Award Agreement, a SpouseOptionPensionmaybepayableinaccor-dancevwth the provisions ofthis Paragraph3;10. An employee who shallhave attained age fifty-five (90) and is accumulating seniority and has a spouse to whom the employee Is and has been legallymarried at least one (1) year or a common-law spouse with whom he bin been living for at least one (1) year and whom he has publicly represented as hla spouse may thereafter and prior to the employee's retirement elect as a spouse option election that the employee's pension be payable** follows'.
(A)	Provided the employee's slsctlonls In effect . at his normal special early or early retirement, the baslo monthly pension amount determined pursuant to Paragraph3:0i (A)
(B)	(C) (0) of Article ill shall be converted into a reduced pension of equal actuarial value as determined by the employer and shall be payable each month thereafter duringthe employee’s lifetime. Commencing with the month following the monthofthe death of the pensioner, a spouse option pension equal to sixty (60) percent of such actuarially reduced basic monthly pension shall be payable to the said spouse, provided such spousels then living, each month thereafter during the lifetime of such spouse. Any Type A supplementarypension payable to the employee shall be payable as otherwise provided inthis Pension Plan and
140
Service Award Agreement <B> If the employee dies while accumulating seniority, whte eligible to retire and priorto the employee's retirement and while the employee's election under this Paragraph 3:10 is in effect, there shall be a spouse option pension payabletothe said spouse, provided such spouse is then living, conv mendngwiththemonthfollowingthe month of the employee's death and each month thereafter during auch spouse's lifetime. The amount of the spouse option pension shall be equal to sixty (60) percent of that baslo monthly pension amount which would have been payable to the employee if the employee had retired Immediately priorto death and the employee's basic monthly pension had been determined and con verted Inaccordance with (A) above.
An employee's spouse option election shall be made by application^ writing on a form supplied by the employer and submitted to the employer with proof of age and of the marrfageoreommon-law arrangement, such electionahal! be irrevocable, providedhow-ever, that the death of said spouse or dlsso* lutton of their marriage priorto the date on which the first pension payment Is due to the employee shall nullify the spouse option election. An employee's spouse option electionshall beeffectlve uponsubmlsslon of the employee's application if such application isalso accompanied by evidence of the employee's good health satisfactory to the employer, otherwise such electionshall be effective at the earlier of (I) theexplration of a two (2) year period from the date of submission of application with proof of age and of the marriage or (II) submission of
141
such evidence of good health and proof of age and of the marriage or common-law arrangement, provided however, that no election may become effective after the employee's retirement date.
If an employee's election under this Para-graph3:10drf have becomeeffectlve, the amount of any basic monthly pension payable underthis Pension Plan and Seivlce Award Agreement shall befurther reduced. The amount of such reduction ahall be determined on the basis of the period, or periods, any one or more spouse option election wasln effect and at a rate of 6/1 Oths of 1 percent peryearcomputedto 1/12 year for each completed month ofsuchperfod or periods. If there It more than one period, the amount of reductionshall be cumulative, if thespouse option electionla not Ineffect at the employee's retirement, pension ben; •fits will be payable as otherwise provided in this Pension Pian and Service Award Agreement
ARTICLE IV
Deductions
Paragraph 4:01
(A) There shall be deducted from the amount of pension payable to each pensioner and each recipient of a total and permanent disability pension under the provisions of Articles Hand III, a sum equal to the full amount of any benefit, annuity, pension or payment of similar kind pay. ableofsuchperson after retirement for any period of service covered by this plan, under any other plan of the Company or its parent or any affiliate or subsidiary of either to which the person is of shall be a, upon application would becomeentl-tied; provided that, If such person shall have 142
contributed to the source or fund from which any such benefits, annuity, pensioner payment shall be paid or become payable, such full amount of thedeductionforsuch benefit, annuity, pensionor payment shallbe decreased by the amount which shall be attributable to the contributions which such person shall have made to such source or find.
(B)	The deductions from pensions referred (o In Para-graph401 of this Article IV shall not be made from the monthly or lumpsum paymentsto a beneficiary or the estate of a pensioner where an employee has elected anoptionalform of pension In accordancewith Paragraph 3:07 of Article III.
(C)	ThereshallbedeductedfromtheamountofType
A supplementary pension payableto each recipient of a total and permanent disability pension under the provisions of Article III orto the recipient of an early retirement pension under the provi-sionsof Article III.	,
The sum equal tothe amount of statutory benefit towhich thepensloner shallorcouldbe entitled to receive upon application.
Paragraph 4:08
Each person who retires under the plan shall furnish to the Board proof satisfactory to it of the amount of any such benefit, annuity, pension or payment to which ha is or shall be or upon application would become entitled and, upon request of the Board, win authorize the Board to obtain Information relating to such benefit, annuity, pension or payment from any government agency. If any applicant for a pension or pensioner shall fail to furnish any such proof or authorization, the Board may compute his pension and deductions on the basis of estimates which in ft judgement are reasonable. The deductions which are provided for Inthls Article III
143
shall be made not only with respecttoany tfthe above-mentioned payments which shallactually be receivedby a pensioner, but also with respect to any such payments to which he would be entitled, except faraome actorfailuretoad by him or on his behalf, such as leaving Canada, failure to make applicationtherefororfailureto notify the proper authority of his address.
Paragraph4:03
It any of the payments which are deductiblefrom penalons under this Article IV shallbepald in the oaaa ot a pension from a pension planestablished by the General Tire and Rubber Company of CanadaUmlted orita parent or otherwise paid or payabletoapenaionsrinelumpaum, it shall be prorated on a monthly basis from the date on which itshallbepaW In the csss of apenslon from a pension plan .established by the General Tire and Rubber Company of Canada Limited or its parent or otherwise paid or payable (at a rata each month equal to the sntlra amount of pension otherwise payable to such pensioner from the pensionfund Insuch month) and no pensionshall be payableto such pensioner under the planuntlf said payment, as thus proratedshallbe exhausted,
ARTICLE V
Application For Retirement
Paragraph 8:01
Eachapplicationlbrretirement shellbeinwrltlng on the form or forms provided by the pension board and shall be m ad e to the PensionBoardand shallbeflladlnsuehmsnner and with suchperson as the Pension Boardmay specify, The Pension Board may require that there befomishedto Ith connection with any such application for retirement proof of age and any other Information as may reasonably be required. If an applicantfalis 144
to famish such informationor proof, the Pension Board may compute his pension, if any, on any basis by it deemed reasonable.
ARTICLE Vi Administration
Paragraph 6:01
The administration of this Plan shall be the responsibility of the Company and shall be carried out by a Pension Board, which shall consist of three (3)or more persons from the management oftheemployingCompanyto beappolnted annually by the Board of Directors of the employing, Companyandtoserve untilthelrsuceessors shall have been appointed in like manner. At the time of their appointment, the Boardof Directorsshal! designate one(1) of the members ofthe Pension Board as its Chairman.
Paragraph6:02 • The Pension Board Shall Have Authority:
(A)	To grant pensions in the amounts and upon the termsandcondltlonsprovldedfrunderthls Plan; provided such aotion as shall be taken isinnoway Inconsistent with any applicable laws, rules or regulations that mayhavebeen or shall be adopted orpromulgatedbya govemmentauthorityhaving jurisdiction over the Fund or Plan;
(B)	To interpretand apply the provisionsof the Plan, to resolve ambiguities and to correct errors, and to make, amend, repeal, and enfbrcesuch rules and regulations as It may deem necessary or properfar the efficient operation of this Plan;
(C)	Prom time to time, to adopt mortality tables and th e interestratetobe used asthe basis for all actuarial calculations;
(0) To appoint an actuary who shall recommend to the Pension Board the mortalitytables and Interest rates, and shall make actuarial valuations of 145
the assets and liabilitiesof the Plan; and (E) To perform such other duties as maybeassigned to itfrom time to time by the Boardof Directors of the employing Company.
Paragraph 8:03
The Pension Board shall hold meetings upon such notice, at such placeor places, and at such time as the members oftheboardshalldetermine from time to time. A majority of the memb ers of th e Pension Boardat the time In office shall constitute a quorum, for the transaction of business: but a majority of those present, though less than a quorum, may adjourn any meeting from time to tlmeuntilaquorumshallhavebeenobtained. Any action approvedby (he vote of a majority of those present at any meeting, If thosepresent constitute a quorum, shall be the action of the Pension Board, the PensionBoard may take action without-meetinglf approvals the actionis in writing by ail members at the time In office,
Paragraph 6:04
The PensionBoard shall prepare or oause to be prepared, an annual repot within a reasonable period of time after the end of each calendar year after the effectivedate setting forth i n reasonable summarythe operationofthe Planfbr such year.
Paragraph 6:06
The Company shall provide to each member a written explanationof the terms and conditionsof the Pian and amendments thereto applicable to Mm, together wlthan explanation of the rights and duties of the employee with reference to the benefits available to him under the terms of the Pension Plan.
146
ARTICLE VII Payment of Pensions
Paragraph 7:01
TheCompanylsfreetodetermlnethe mannerand means of making provisions for, and paying, the pension benefits set forth in this Plan: however, the Company agrees to reserveor set aside each year ihe amount required on a sound actuarial bads to pay the pension benefits provided by the Planforthe life of each pensioner retired underthe flan during such year.
Paragraph 7:02
For the purpose of this Plan, the Company may establish, or oause to be established, alone or In conjunction with other employing Companies, a pension trust or trusts. Any employing Company may pay, or cause to be paid, Into such trust or trusts such amounts as the Company shall approve.
Paragraph 7:03
The funds of any such trust or trusts may be invested, reinvestedandusedforthe payment of or making provisions for pensions granted in accordance with thta pian and for the payment of such costs and expenses, Including taxes, of operation and administration of this plan as may berequlredbylaworas may from time io time be directed or approved by the PensionSoard; but in the discretion of the Company such fonds or any partorparte of them maybe commingled with any otherfond or funds established for use In connection with the payment of pensions to any employees of any employing company. No part of the assets of the trust or trusts may be used for or diverted to purposes other than the exclusive benefit of employees at any time pin- to the
147
satisfaction of all liabilitiesto employees covered by the trust or trusts.
Paragraph 7;04
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained elsewhere In this Artlcls, paymentsto the Fund, the Investment and loan of monies constituting said Fund, and the payment of pensions, shall be made in such manner as to comply with legislation that may havebeenor shallbe adopted or promulgated by a governmental authority hav-Ingjurisdiction ovarthe Fund or Plan. Appropriate adjustments shall be made in the Ran where necessary.
ARTICLE Vllt Qeneral Provisions
■Paragraph 8:01
Nothing In this Plan shall bedeemedto give any employeetherighttobe retained Intheserviceof an employing Company or to Interfere with the rightof theemploying Company by which he shall then be employed to discharge any employee at any time. The foregoing shall not be deemed to modify the provisions of any Agreements which maybemadebyanyoftheemployingCompanies with the recognized Collective Bargaining representative of any of their employees.
Paragraph8.,02
Sale, transfer, anticipation, assignment, pledgeor any kind of encumbrance of pensions will not be permitted orrecognized under any circumstances. Neither pensions, nor any payment on account thereof, shall be subject to attachment or other legal process ir or against a pensioner.
148
Paragraph 8:03
Subject to the provisions of any Agreements which may be made by any of the employing Companies with the recognized Collective Bar* gaining representatives of any of their employees, the Company reserves therightto modify, amend or terminate this Plan, in whole or in part, at any timeandfbrany reason. On and after termination of this Plan, no further pension rights or obligations shall accmeundar this Plantoanyemployee \Mto has not retired thereunder prior to such termination provided, however, that no pension granted priorto the dateof such termination shall be reduced, suspended or discontinued, except as otherwise specifically providedherein.
Paragraphfl:04
Inthe event of termination, all assets of the Pian shall be used for the exclusive benefit of the participants ar# no parithereof shall be returned to the Company, except the excess, If any, which may exist becauseoferroneousactuariabompu-tation.
Paragraph 8:06
No employee prior to his retirement under the conditions of eligibility for pension benefits as provided by this Plan shall have any rights or Interest whatsoever in or to any portion of any funds which maybepaW intoany pension tnet or (mats established for the purpose of pay Ihg pensions and no employee cr pensioner shall have any right to pension benefits except to the extent provided in this Plan,
Paragraph 6:08
The Company may act for and on behalfofanyor all of the employing Companies in all matters
149
pertainingto the operation and administration of this Plan.
ARTICLE IX Conditions
Paragraph 9:01
The Plan and all of the Company's obligations end employee's tights thereunder are conditioned an and subject tothe approval of the relevant govem-mentaltax authorities. Ifontheeffectivedateof the Pension Plan the Company has not all the approvals which it maydeem necessaryto establish that it is entitled to deduct the amount of its contributions to the Pension Pianos an expense before taxes under the provisions of the Income Tax Act, ora 9 other applicable tax laws, as new in effect or as hereafter amended or adopted, the Plan shall not become effective.
Paragraphs^
Inthe event of refusaibythe Boardof Directors or bytherelevant authorities, to approve this Agreement an or before the 1st day of Decembert993 or inthe event of the government tax authorities rsfaslnotoapprovethla Agreement, asdefinedh Section 9:01 hereof, after such date or <£ their withdrawal after such date of approval of this Agreement previously given, eitherthe Unionor ths Employer may apply to the Ontario Labour Relations
Boardfor permission to terminate any Collective Labor Agreement then in effect, and the other party shalljoin in such application. If subsequentto noticeof termination of such Collective Labour Agreement, or subsequentto termination of this Agreement, the parties settle any difference between them end this Agreement is reinstated or a sucoessor Agreement is made, then such Collective LabourAgreementifterminated, shall be rein-
100
stated to continue In full force until subsequently terminated according to its provisions as contained therein.
ARTICLE X Service Awards
Paragraph 10:01
Under the following terms and conditions, the Company will pay a Service Award:
(A)	an employee must have five (5) or more years of credited service;
<B) an employee is no longer able to meetthe requirementsof his job and cannot qualify for transfer, under the terms of the Labour Agreement to another job within the plant, and Is Ineligible for any pension under the Pension Plan. The employee’s qualified’ fionsareto be determined bythe Company.
Paragraph 10:02
Any employeewho becomes eligible foraService Award under the conditions a8 stated in Paragraph! 0:01 aboveshallhave said Service Award calculated on the basis of a percentage of his aggregateearnlngs during his period of continu. ous service determined as follows: for an employee with at least five (5) and less than ten (10) years of continuous service - two percent (2%); For an employee with at least ten (10) and less than fifteen (15) years of continuousservice- two and one-half percent (2-1/2%);
For an employee with fifteen (15) ormoreyearsof continuous service • three percent (3%);
For an employee with twenty (20) or more years of continuous service • four percent (4%);
For an employee with at least five (5)years of continuous service who retires on his normal retirement date • three percent (3%).
151
Paragraph 10:03
An employes who Is laid off and Is eligible for recall shall not be entitled to a Service Award.
Paragraph 10:04
An employee, by his acceptance of a Sewice Award, thereby terminates his Service with the Company and loses ail seniority and re-employment rights, and he may be rehired only at the option of the Company, and then only as a new employee without credit for previous service.
Paragraph 10:05
An employee discharged for cause forfeits ell rights to and is not ellglbl e for for a Service Award.
Paragraph 10:06
I nthe event that all operations of the employer at the plant covered by this Agreement shall be completely and permanently discontinued, an employee who Is not offered like employment and/ or a transfer Inorto another substituted factory of the employer ii Canada, and le released from employment as a result thereof, shall beentitled to early retirement (but no other benefit) without the consent of the Company, if such employeeis otherwise aVglbfe for early retirement under the provIslonsofthePenslon Plan. If such employee Is Ineligible for a pension under such Pension Plan, and is ineligiblefor a Service Award under the Sewice Award Plan (but has five (5) or more years of continuous service), the Company will pay to such employeethe Sewice Award (but no other benefit) whichhe would be eligible to receive If hewere releasedfrom employment becausehe had become physically or mentally unable to perform the work of his classification or that of anotherclassiflcatlon to which hemlght be eligible for transfer.
192
ARTtClflXt Appeala Procedure
Paragraph 11:01
If any dM^roncea shell nrftsbatWMn any am ploying Company or the Pension Board and any emptoyeewhoahalf bean applicantfor retirement orpanalonaraata:
(A)	The number of years of credited service of such employee or pert*loner; or
(B)	The age of such employee or pensioner; or
(C)	The amount of pension or service award to which an employee or penaloner is entitled; or
(D)	Whether such employee or penaloner, If he shall have bean determined to be permanently disabled butahaU not have reached hlsnormal retirement date, became permanently disabled through some unavoidable cause;
And if agreement cannot be reached be* tween the Pension Boardendtheemployee or pensioner such question may be taken if) ae a grievance under Pie grievance procedure provided for in the applicable Labour Agreement at the level at which a grievance la preaented to the Company's Grievance Committee* If any such grievance shall be takin before an impartial umpire or arpltretor In accordance with such pm«»dure, then the Impartial umpire or arbitrator shall have authority only to decide the question pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement applicable to the question, but heshali have no authority in anyway to alter, add to or subtract tram any of such provisions. The decision of the Impartial umpire or arbitrator on any such question shell be binding on the employing Com*
103
pany, the Pension Board and the employee or pensioner and all other interested per-ties.
Paragraph 11:02
fcny difference shall arise between any employ. Ing Company and any employee as to whether such employee la or continues tobe permanently disabled, such difference shall be resolved aa follows:
The empkiyeeehall be examined by a physician appointed lor the purpose and compensated by the employing Company and by a physician ap* pointedfor the purpose, and compensated by the employee or the Union. It they shall disagree concamlngwhathertha employee Is permanently disabled, that question shal be submitted to a third physician selected by such two physicians. The medical opinion of the third physician, after examination of the employee and consultation with the other two physicians shea decide such question. The fees end expensee of the third physician shall be borne by the employing Company . In the event the amployes refuses to be examined or fade to appoint or cause to beep* pointed, a physician to represent him for the purposes of Vila Paragraph, he Shalt have no rights to any pension under the plan until the retinal Is withdrawn orsuch appointment I8made.
ARTICLE XI General Provision*
Paragraph 12:01
OurlngthatermofthlsAgrsemant, butonly solong as Ihe provisions of Article 1 hereof, arid the Pension Planend ServiceAwarda, insofar as they apply to the emptoysea represented by the Union, shall continue h effect without modification or ohenge,neltheriheUnlonnoranyof itaolficersor 184
representatives nor any of the employees shall: {A) demand that the Company increase the rates of pay ol the employees on account of or for use In paying the cost, In whole or in part, of pension benefits or Service Awards lor the employees: of
(8) demand that the pension benefits underthe Pension Plan, or Service Awards, or the provisions of Article 1 erf this Agreement be changed In arty respector terminated erthat new penelon, Service Awards, or similar benelts be established or that the amount which the Company le required by the provisions of Article 1 of this Agreement to pay or cause to be paid or provided for anyorafl suchbenaWsfortheemptoyeesrepresented by Pie Union be Increased: or (O engage or continue lo engage In or In any manner encourage or sanction any strike, work stoppage, interruption or Impeding ot work at any of the plants or establishments of the Company tor thepurpose of securing any such Increases or any such change or any other action with respect to pension benefits and/br servlet awards and the Company shad not have any oblgatton to negotiate or bargain with the Union with respeetto any of the matters covered by, or relating to, Clauses (A), (B), (C) of this Paragraph.
Paragraph 12:02
Subject to (he foregoing, this Agreement shall become effective Apr# 1,1993and aha* continue In lullforee and effect In respect to all benefits at least unM the first day of June, 1996or If nonotice la given an provided in the following paragraph, then this Agreement shell be extended from year to year thereafter. the last day of the original
iaa
period orof any extended period being referred to herein aa the termination data.
Paragraph 12:03
Either the Union or the Company may give to the other a written notice of lie desire to modify or Its Intention to terminate this Agreement notlew than sixty (90) days nor more than ninety (90) days prior to the termination date. In such era!, negotiations wf commence within fifteen (15) days of notification unices otherwise mutually agreed andlf negotiations are notcompleted prior to the termination date, this Agreement shall continue Infull farce andeffsctthereafltr,subject to termination upon at least sixty (60) days' written notice by either party to the other given on or after the termination date,
Paragraph 12:04
T ermlnation of this Agreement shall not have the effeot of automatically discontinuing the Pension Plan Insofar a8 It affects the pensions of those retiring before the termination date and no pern slon granted prior to such termination shad be varied, reduced, suspended or discontinued except ae specifically provided In the Pension Plan.
lea
Signed this 8tfi day of March, 1893 at Welland, Ontario, batwaar:
LOCAL48S,	QENCORP
UNITED RUBBER, CORK, CANADA INC. UNOLEUMAND PLASTIC WELLAND, WORKERS OF AMERICA,	ONTARIO.
AFl-CIQ'CLC
F. Houle T. Oaaparaltl N. Labbe
B.	Martin P.Lampman
C.	Sclme International Representative
$
e. Baird D, Whidden
N.	MaHhot
O.	Molnar T. Grano
197
tITH AMENDED AGREEMENT ON
SUPPLEMENTAL UNEMPLOYMENT8ENEFIT8 PUN
This Agreements made and entered Into thleath day of March, 180$, by and between GenCorp Canada tno. (heretnafler referred to a» the "Company") and Local Union No, 489, United Rubber, Corik, Linoleum end Plaetio Workers of America hereinafter referred to as the “Union").
Whereas thepertlee hereto established a Supplemental Unemployment Benefits Plan by an Agreement an Supplemental UnempioymerrtBeneflta dated the 3rd day of March, 1687 as amended.
And whertM the parties desire to provide for certain modWcetlons and amendments thereto.
Now, therefore, It la mutualy agreed as follows;
Article Index	Page
Article 1
EKglbHity for a Regular Benefit............ 189
Article II
Amount of Beneltts......................... 166
Credit Units & Duration of Benefits.......... 173
Article tV	,
Application* Determination of Eligibility,. 17B ArtlefeV
Administration of the Plan and
Appeal Procedure •«<*»!<*****■*•<	■•••■**■>*■>» 160
Article VI
Financial Provisions..................   186
Article Vlt
Conditions to Effectlvsneas and
Continuation of Plan..................   166
Article VMt
Miscellaneous........................... 189
Article IX
Definitions	  201
ArtleleX
Duration and Termination..............   208
188
ARTICLE!
Eligibility for EenefKa 8eotlon 1. Eligibility lor a Regular Benefit
An employee shall be eligible foraregular benefit for any week beginning on or after the effective bate of this Agreement Ifwlth respect to such week he:
(A)	waeonepualHying layoff,ea described InSectkin 4 of this Article, tor all crpart of ffiewetlq
(B)	received an Unemployment Insurance Syetem Benefit not currently under protest by the Company a <Bd nutrecetva an Unemployment Insurance System Benefit fr only one or more of the following reasons:
1.	He did not have, prior to layoff a sufficient period of employment or earnings covered by the Unemptoymentlnaurance System:
2.	Exhaustion of Ns Unemployment Insurance System Benefit rights;
3.	H» was serving an Unemployment Insurance System “waWng week" while temporarily laid off out of line of seniority pending lor a maximum period up to six weeks pending placement under the terms of the Colecllve labour Agreement provided that the provisions of tills Item (3) shall not be applicable to: 1) plant rearrangement, (2) Inventory layoff.
4.	The weak was a second "waiting week" within his benefit year under the Unemployment Insuranoe System, or was an Unemployment Ins uranceSystem "waiting weak" Immediately foUowfng a weak for which he racelvedenUnemployment insurance8ya-tem tonal*, orocourrlng within less than fifty-two (82) weeks since Ns last Unemployment insumnceSystem "watting week";
6.	He refused aCompany work offer wh Ich h a
189
has an option to refuse underthe Collective Labour Agreement or which heoould refuse without disqualification.
e,	Newas on layoff becausehe was unahleto
do work offered by the Company while able to do other work £1 the plant to which he would have been enMM V ha bad had sufficient seniority;
7. He was denied an Unemployment insur* anes Benefit solely because of the U.l. allocation to such week of eemfngefrom a “waiting period*;
6. Itlsdetermlnedwiththeconcurrenceofthe CenadaEmploymentendlmmigratlonCom-mission, that, underthe circumstances, It would be contrary to the Intent of the Plan and Commission pqlicyto deny him a, benefit;
9.	He wee required to take work under the Unemployment Insurance law paying less than go% of his 'Vreekly straight time pay; while temporarily lald-off and waiting recall.
10.	He voluntarily took wak paying leas than 60% athto"m»kly straight time pay", while temporarily lald-off and wailing recall.
(C)	Was actively seeking work <r hadaccepted work other than that covered by the Bargaining Unit which paid fees than 80% of his "weekly straight time pay" while temporarily lald-off and waiting recall, had not failed or refused to accept work deemedsuitableunder theappllcable Unemployment Insurance System and hasmet any ragtetra-tkmandrsportlngrequlrements of an employment office of such applicable Unemployment Insurance System.
fOJHaa table credit a credit unit or fraction thereof; •
(E)	Did not receive an Unemployment Benefit under any contract or program of another employer or under any other "sub" plan of !he Company (and
160
was not eligible for such a benefit under a co ntraet orprogram of anotheremployer with whom hehas a greater seniority than with the Company nor under any other‘sub* plan of the Company li whtuh he has credit unite whloh were credited earlier than hla oldest credit units under this plan);
(P) Wee not eligible for an automatic short week benefit;
(G)Has made a benefit application in accordance wflh procedures established by the Company hereunder.
Section 2. Eligibility For A Spscfsl Short Weak Benefit
An employee shall be eligible lora Special Short Week beratit for,any week begkmlng on or after the effective dele of this Agreement Hi
(A)	During such .week he performed some work for the Company or performed compensated work forth* Union cr wa» otherwise compensated by the Company for a day or part thereof but hie compensated or available hours woe leas than the number of hours in hla standard work weak. During a week of scheduled shutdown, compensation ter a hoHdiy or holidays (but only with respect to an employee laid off In a reduction of force In accordance with foe applicable Collective Labour Agreement), lor vacation or for work lor the Union or a combination thereof, shall not of Itself qualify Mm for a benefit hereunder;
(8)Wh respect tosuch week hit Company pay and any Company paywhlch hewould have received for hours scheduled for or madeavokableiohlm but networked did not equal orexceed Ms allowable earnings;
(C) With respeot to such week he satisfied all of the etigibitity conditions tor regular benefit.
161
Sections. Eligibility For An Autom at Ic Short Weak Ban tilt
(A) An employee shall be eligible for an Automatic
Short Week benefit tor any wed! beginning on or
alter the effective date of this Agreement It
1.	Ourtngsuchweekhepertormedaomework for the Company, or performed compensated work lor the Union or was otherwise compensated by the Company for a day or part thereof, but his compensated or available hours were leu than the number of hours In his standard work week. During a week of scheduled shutdown, compensation for a holiday or holidays (but only with respsot to an employee laid off In a reduction of force in socordahce with the applicable Collective Labour Agreement), for vacation or work for the Union or a combination thereof, shall not of Itself qualify him for a benefit hereunder;
2.	He had at lead one (t) year of seniority as of the last day of such week;
3.	He was on a qualifying layoff, as described In Section 4 of thla Article, tar soma part of such week;
4.	With respect to such week hfa Company pay andeny Company pay which ha would have received for hours scheduled for or made available to him but not worked, squatted or exceeded his allowable earnings; and
9. Hedldnothaveapertodorperiodsoflayoff Intheweekandlntheprecedlngor following
week occurring In such sequence as to constitute a 'week of unemployment" (as denned under the applicable Unemployment Insurance System) which inducted some partof the week; provided, however,
162
that when an employee has a period of layoff with respect to which he has established such an Unemployment Insurance System "week of unemployment", which starts on a day other than Sunday or Monday. hewlll beenllSed (If otherwise eligible) to receive a partial automatic Short Week benefit with respectloany hours of layoff on days wllhln a work week which are not Included in such (or any other) established Unemploymenlnaurance 8yst#m “week of unemployment*,
(B)	No application for an Automatic Short Week bene, tit, other then a partial Automatic Short Week benefit, will be required of an employee. However,If an employee believes Nmaelf entitled loan Automatic Short Week benefit fora week whfchhe does not receive on the date when such benefits for such week arepaid, he may file written application therefore In accordance with procedures established by the Company.
(C)	An Automate Short Week benefit payable for a week shell be hi Heu of any other benefit under the Plan forthat weak, except that this provision does not apply lo a partial Automatic Short Weak benefit.
9eotkm 4. Conditions With Respect to Layoff
(A)	A layoff for the purposes of this Plan shall arise from:
1.	Any temporary layoff resulting from a reduction in force, the discontinuance of a plant or an operation or a temporary layoff occurring or continuing because the employes wee unable to do the work offered by the Companyattioughabletoperform other work li the plant to which he would have been entitled If he had hadaufftdeM senior-
163
fly. Medically restricted emptoyeses awaiting suitable placement will be considered on layoff occurring fa a reduction In force.
2.	A temporary leave of absence resulting from pregnancy, training, Illness. Injury or care ofa child or children In accordance with Sub-Section 20(1) of the Unemployment InsuranceAot.
(e) An employees layoff, as defined In paragraph(A) of this section, for all or part of any week will be deemed qualifying for Plan purposes only if the fQilowfngcandlUbnsaremot,esappllcablethereto:
1.	Any accident or sickness or any other disability benefit; or
2,	Such layoff was not for disciplinary ream s , and was nota consequence of.
I)	Any etrfte*, slowdown, work stoppage, picketing (whether or not by employees), or concerted action, at a Company plant or plants, cr any dispute of any kind Involving employees or other persons employed by Ihe Company, and represented by the Union whether at e company plant or plants or elsewhere;
II)	Any war or hostile act of a foreign power (but not government regulation or controls connected therewith);
III)	Sabotage or Insurrection; or
IV)	Any act of Gad; provided, however, this Subsection (IV) shell not apply to the first two (2) weeks of layoff resulting from such cause:
*A| the end of any legal strike by employees, lha Com. party and the Union shell mutually agree aa to the period of time necessary for normal start-up which shall be Incorporated as part of any strike settlement memorandum, After such period of time an employee will not be disqualified for S.U.B. solely because of such strike.
164
3.	With respect to suchweek the employ eedld not'refuse to accept work when recalled pursuant to the Collective Labour Agreement and did net refuse an offer by the Company of other availablework, which he had nooptlon to refuse wider the Collective Labour Agreement; provided, however,that where maintenance employees refine production work It wHI not disqualify them under this Sub-paragraph (3);
4.	With respect to such week the employee was not sllglblefbrand wee not claiming:
[I)	Any accident or sickness or any other disability benefit (except a Canada Pension Flan Disability Benefit) to a medically restricted employee waiting suitable placement under the tarms of the applicable Collective Labour Agreement or except a benefit which he received or could have received while working full time; or
(II)	Any Company pension or retirement benefit; and
(C) If, with respect to some but not dl of Ws regular work dev* Ins weak, an employee isinellgtbie (or a benefit by reason of subparagraph (B) (2)or(B) (4) of this Bectlon. (and £ otherwise eligible for a benefit), he will be entitled to a reduced benefit pay mentas provided In 8ection 1 (C) of Article II.
Section 8. Disputed Claims I or Unemployments-suranee System Benefit*
(A) with respect to any week lor which an employee has applied for a benefit and for which he:
1.	Has been denied an Unemployment Insurance System benefit, end the denial is being protested bythe emptoyeethroughthe procedure provided therefor underlheUnemploymentlmuraneeSys-
tarn, or
2.	Has received an Unemploymentlnauranca System benefit, payment ofwhleh it bains protested by the Company through the procedure provided therefor underthe Unemployment Insurance System.
And theemployee Isellglbla to receive a benefit under the pian except for euch denial, or protest, the payment of auch benefit shall be suspended until euch dispute shall have been determined,
{B)lf thedlapute shiafJ be finally determined In favour of the employee,the benefit shall bepald tohimlfandi othe extent that he had not exhausted credit units subsequent to Ihe week to which the Unemploymentlnsur-ance System Benefit In dispute is applicable.
Section 6. vacation Shutdowns
It la undaistood that an amployaa who la eligible far weak of paid vacation inanamountnot leas Mian the period of scheduled plant vacation shutdown, will net be eligible to receive a benefit under the Plan lor the period of plant shutdown, regardless ofwhether he has taken his vacation prior to or la deferring Ms vacation urn# after the shutdown, and regardless of his eligibility lor unemployment compensation under these circumstances. An employee who has taken vacation during a week or weeks when he otherwise would have been scheduled off In a curtailment of production shall not be disqualified from benefits undertha plan, as provided above, to the extent of such week orwesks so taken.
aruclbii
Amount of Benefits
Section 1. AsgulsrBenentsAndSpecIslShortWork Benefits
(A)	The regular benefit payable to en el IgWe empk any week beginning on or after the affective
160
for s of
this Agreement shall be an amount, which, when added to his Unemployment Insurance Benefit and other compensation, will equal 60% of Ns weekly straight time pay tar each week for which he Is eligible for a regular benefit
(B)	The Special Short Week benefit payable to an eligible employee tor any week beginning on or after the effective date of tMs Agreement aheH be an amount which, when addedtoffta employee's Unemployment inaurance Benefit and other compensation, (exclude Ing the amount of any pay received tr receivable from the Company) wW equal the productof the number by which his standard work week exceeds bin compon-satedoravaNable hours, counted.tolhe nearest tenth
of an hour, nui ItipHed by 80% o< hla Short Work Week
average hourly earnings; provided, however, that a regular benefit did be payable for die week If the amount of sueh regular benefit is equal to or greater than the amount of the Special Short Week benefit
(C)	An otherwise eligible employee entitled to a benefit reduced, as provided In Subsection 4(C) of Article 1, because of InefigfeHity with respect to part ofthe week, win reoeive the greaterof;
1.	1/0 computed under Subsection (A) of this Sec. Don for each workday of the week far which he la
eligible under this Plan, provided, however, that there ehall be excluded from such computation any pay which could have been earned, corn* puted, as H payable,for hours made availableby the Company but not worked during the days for whichhelsnotadglbleforabenetltunderSubeec-tJon 4(C) of Article l;cr
2.	Any Special Short Week benefit computed under Subsection <B) of this Section for which ha may be eligible.
(D)	|n no event wifi payments In respect of guaranteed annual remuneration or In respect of deferred remu-Deration or severance pay benefit a be reduced or in reaped of deferred remuneration or severance pay
18T
benefits be reduced or increased by payments re* celvsd underthls Plan.
Section 2. Automatic 8hort Weak Benefit
(A)	The Automatic Short Week benefit payable to any ellgfcle employeefor any week beginning or or after the effective date of this Agreement shall be an amount equal to the products !he number by which the number of hours Si his standard work weak exceeds hti compensated or available hours, counted to the nearest tenth of an hour, multiplied by 80% of his Short Work Week average hourly earnings.
(8) An eligible employee entitled to a partial Automatic Short Weak benefit with respect to certain hours of layoff no! included h an Unemploymentlnaurance System "Weak of unemployment", aa provided in 8eellon 3(A) (8) of Article 1. wl receive an amount computed as provided In Subsection 2(A) above, based on the number by which the hoursfbr which the employee would regularly have been compensated exceeds hie compensated or available hours, with respect to the days wl thin the work week not Included in such Unemployment Insurance System “week of unemployment".
Section a. Unemployment Insurance Benefit and OtherCompeneatlon
(A)	An employee's Unemployment Insurance Benefltand other compensation for a week means;
1.	The amountof Unemployment Insurance System ben eflt received or receivable by the employ ee for the week: plus
2.	Al pay received or receivable by the employee from the Company and except In determining the amount of e Special Short Week benefit, any amountof unearned pay computed, as if payable, tor hours madeavallaWe by the Company but not worked after notice consistent with practices under die Collective Labour Agreement has been
168
given for such week; and provided, that Ifwages of remunsratlonare received or receivable by the employee from employera other than the Com* pflny and are applicable to the same periods as hoursmade available by the Company, only the greater of [A) such wages or remuneration In excess of his allowable earnings from other employers: or (B) any amount of pay which could have bean earned, computed, as If payable, for hours made available by the Company shall be Included; and further provided, that any pay received or receivable lor a shift which extends through midnight shall be allocated:
(I) To the day on which the shift started If he was on layoff with respect to the corresponding shift on the following day,
(ll| TothedayonwhtohtheshlftendedHhewas on layoff with respect to the corresponding shift on the preceding day, and (IH) According to the pay lor the hours worked each day, If ha wee on layoff with reapeetto thecorreapofidlng shifts on both preceding and the following days: and, in any such event, themaximum regular benefitamount shall be modified lo any extent necessary so that the employee’s benefit will be Increased tooffoetanyreduetton InhlsUnem-ployment Insurance System benefit which may have resulted solely from the Unemployment Insurance Systems’ allocation of his earnings lor such a shift otherwise than as aoeclfled Si this Subsection: plus
3.	All wages or remuneration, as defined underthe law of the applicable Unemploymentlnaurancs System, In exeeee of his allowable earnings received or receivable from other employers for such week (excluding such wages or remuneration which were considered in the calculation under Subsection (A) (2) of this Section); plus
4, The amcxjrt of all other bweflte In the nature of compensation or benefits for Unemploymentre-celvsd or receivableunderany Province or Cana* dlan government system.
(B)	If the unemploymentlnsuranee Systembenefit actually recalved by an employee for e week shall be for less, or mom, than a full week (for reasons other then the employee’s receipt of wages or remuneration for such week), because
1.	Hehas been disqualified orotherwisedetermlned Ineligible foraportionofhliUnemploymenflnsur-ance System benefit lor reasons other than set forth Si Section 1 (B) of Article 1, or Z The applicable Unemployment Insurance week Includes one or more "waiting period effective days”, or
3.	Of an underpayment or overpayment of a previous Unemployment Insurance System benefit, the amountof the Unemploymentlnsuranee System benefit which would otherwise have been paid to the employes for such Unemployment Insurance week shall be used in the calculation of “Unemploymentlnsuranee benefit andotiweem-pensalion1* for such Unemployment Insurance week.
(C)	ll the Unemployment Insurance System benefit applies (o a period of leas than seven (7) days due to commencement oriermlnallonol unemployment othar than on !he first or last day of the normally applicable week, the seven (7) day period of the normally applicable Unemployment Insurance week wil be used in calculatlngUnemploymentlnsurencebenefit and other compensation for such Unemployment Insurance weak.
Section 4. Definition of 8ehaduled and Unscheduled Short Work Wstk
(A) For purposes of the Plan, a scheduled short work 170
week with reap act to an employes Is a short work week which Management sohedulss |n order to reduce the production of the plant, department or other unit In which the employes works, toe level batowthe level et which the production of such plant, department, or unit would befbrthe week were It note short work week, but only where such reduction of production to for the purpose of edfuatktg production to customer demand.
(B)	For purposes of the Plan, an unscheduled short work week with respect to-an employee Is any abort work week
1.	Which to not a scheduled short work week as defined In Subsection 4 (A) above;
2.	Inwhich an employee returns to worit from layoff to replace a separated or absent employee (In* eluding an employee felling to reapond or lardy In responding toreeali),or returneto work,afterafuH week of layoff, In connection with an Increase in production, but only to the extent that the short work week to attributable to euoh cause.
(QThe Company wHi advise a designated Union representative, or representatives, of the local Union at die time of layoff of the reason or reasons causing any short work week Involving a substantial number of employees.
Section *. insufficient Credit Units For Pull Benefit
If an employee has tohto credit less than theful number of credit units required to be canceled for tht paymentof abenefit for which he Is otherwlaeeligible, he shall bepald the fun amount of such benefit and all remaining credit units or fractions thereof to We credit shaft be cancelled.
Seotlon 6. Effect of Low Trust Fund Position
Notwithstanding any of the other provisions of the Plan, if. and as long as the applicable treat fund position for any <71
week shall be less than 4%, no benefit for such week shal I be paid.
Section 7. Benefit Overpayment
(A)	lf the Company or the Board determines that any benefitfe) paid underthe Plan should not have been paid or should have been paid It a lesser amount, written notice thereofshaN be mailed to die employee receMnglhe benefits) andheshall retumthe amount of overpayment to the trustee, providing, however, that no repaymentahall be required if the cumulative overpayment Is $3.00 or less or If notice has not been given within 120 days from the date the overpayment wea established or created, exoept that no such limitation shall be applicable hcasssaf fraud or willful misrepresentation.
(B)	lf the employee shal fan to return such amount promptly, the tnetee shall arrange to reimburse the fund for the amount of overpayment toy making a deduction from any future benefits (not to exceed $15.00 from any one benefit except In cases of fraud or willful misrepresentation), or by requesting the Company to make a deduction from compensation payable by the Company to the employee (not to exceed $26.00 from any one pay cheque except In cases of fraud or willful misrepresentation), or both, The Company Isauthorized to make such deduction from the employee's compensation and to pay the amountdedueted to the trustee.
Section e. withholding Tax
The trustee shall deductfram the amount of any benefit any amount required to be withheld by Ihe trustee or the Company by reasonof any laworregulation, for payment of taxes or otherwise to any federal, provincial, ormunlcl-pal government of Canada.
172
Section*. Minimum Regular Benefit
Whenever an employee perform* no work tor the Company a any other employer. li a week and Me regular benefit computed under Section 1 (A) of this Article provide* no benefit or benefit* of tew than $10.00 for the week, he shall be paid an amount aufficient to bring hie benefit lor the week up to $10.00.
8eetlon 10. Deduction of Union Ours
The trustee shall deduct from benefit* paid under the Plan, to thoee employees who have signed a written authorization, union membemhlpdueelnsuch amounts* may be fixed by the local Union,
ARTICLE III
Credit Unite end Duretion of Benefits Section 1, General
Credit unite shall have no Brad value In terms of either time or money, but shell be a means of determining eligibility tor the duration of benefits.
Section 2. Accrual of Credit Units
fAJForwork weekscommendngon or afterthe effective date of this Agreement, credft unks ahall be credited
at the rateof 1/2 ofacredfl unit tor each work week/or which an employee receives any pay from the Company and for work weeks tor which he does not receive pay from the Company but for which he receives a leveling week benefit,
(8)For the purpose of accruing credit units under this Section:
1,	Pay In lieu <f vacation shell be conskleredee pay for the work week In which It la paid; and
2,	Back pay shall be considered as pay for each work week to which It may be allocable.
173
3. Non-occupational accident and sick ness payments, and Workers' Compensation payments shall be considered as payfor (/rework week lor which they are paid.
4.	Time lost when excused for local Union business and a leave of absence lor local Union business shall be Included In determining a work week under this Section.
(C)No employee may have to his credit in the aggregate at any one time under ihls plan and underany'S-UB,’ Plan of the Company more credit units than specified
below:
Yean of Employee's Seniority	Maximum
credit Unite
Less than flue (6)	52
Five (5) but less than ten (10)	78
Ten (1but less than fifteen (16)	104
Fifteen (18) but less than twenty-live (25) 130 Twenty-five (28) and over	20B
However, any employee who has at any time to his credit lithe aggregates total of the applicable maximum number of credit unite (as specified above) under this Plan and any other “S.U.B," Plan of the Company and who vwxid otherwiee accumulate ad. dfffpnal credit unite infhe Bargaining Unit In which he iscurrentiy employed, may direct that such additional oredit units shall be credited to him and a corresponding n umber oi credit unit* accumulated under this Plan In any other Bargaining Unit or under any other "S.U.B." Plan of the Company, ahall be cancelled, as long as theaggregatoolhlscred It units at any onetime does not exceed the applicable maximum.
(O)No employee shell be credited with any credit unit prior to the first day of which he:
(I) Has at least om year of seniority, and (It] Is on ihe active payroll In the Bargaining Unit (or was on such active payroll within forty-five (45) days prior to such first day) but as of such day he
174
shall be credited with credit units lorweeks sub. sequent to Ms Company service date at the rate specified in Paragraph(A) of thisSectlon. Forthe purposes of this 8ubparagraph only, an employee Is on the active payroll In any pay period I or which hedrawe pay while in a Bargaining Unit a- la on authorized leave of absence which is limited, when Issued, to ninety <00) days or leas: during the Drat ninety (90) day8 of continuous absence due to Knees or injury; on disciplinary layoff; absent without leave n5to fourteen (14) calendar days from Ms fast day worked.
(E)	An employeewho has credit units ae of Ihe last day of a week shall be deemed to have them lor all of the week.
(F)	At such time as the amount of any benefit overpay, ment la repaid lo the fund, except as otherwise provided Inthe Plan,the number of credit units, if any, theretofore cancelled wMt respect to such overpayment of benefits shall be restored to the employee, except to the extent that such restoration would raise the num berof his credit units at the tl me thereof above the applicable maximum, and except as otherwise provided with rtspsot to oredit unit forfeiture under Section 3 of this ArtloJe.
Section 3. Forfeiture Of Credit Unite
A parson shall.forfeit permanently all credit unite with
which he ahaH have been credited If at anytime:
(A)	Heahallbe removedfromtherollsof theCompanyfor any reason other then layoff or entering military service,
(fl)He shall lose his rights to rehire wilh credit for back service,
(C)He shall be on layoff from the Bargaining Unit for e continuous period of twenty-tour (24) months (orfbr employees with fifteen (16) but leas Pnn twenty-five (26) years of seniority, thirty (30) months, or for
178
employees with twenty-five (26) or more years of seniority, forty-eight (48) months), or
(D)He shall willfully misrepresent any material fact In conneclloh with an application by him lor benefits under the Plan.
Section 4. Credit Unit Cancellation on Payment of Benefits
The number of credit units to be cancelled lorany benefit shall bedetermlned In accordance wMhthe following table onthebaeleofr
1. The seniority of (he employee Iowhom8uch benefits paid; and
Z The trust tund position applicable B> the week lor which such benefit la paid.
If the seniority of the person to whom such bsnefiHs paid is:
1-9	9-10 10-15 IS-20 20yrs
years years years years Hover
It the trust fund position
applicable to The credit unite cancellad lor the week for such benefit shal be: which such benefitis paid le:
90% or over	1.00	1.00	1.00	1.00	1.00
70 = 79.99%	1.15	1.00	1.00	1.00	1X0
60-69.99%	1.30	1,15	1.00	1.00	1.00
80 - 69.90%	1.50	1.30	1.15	1.00	1.00
40-49.69%	2.00	1.50	1.30	1.16	1.00
30-39.99%	ZOO	2.00	1.50	1.30	1.15
SO • 29.99%	3.33	2.50	2.00	1.60	1.90
10-19.99%	6.00	3.33	2.90	ZOO	1.50
4- 9.99%	7.50	5.00	3.33	2.50	2X0
under 4%	- NO BENEFIT PAYABLE -
Exceptions to the credit unit cancellation rates In the above table are as follows:
176
1.	1/2 of the number of credit unite wilt be cancelled lor an unscheduled eutomatio short week benefit pay. able for three (3)or more hours when with respect to such week the employee has earned from the Com* pany an amount equal to or h excess of 80% of his waeMy straight tine pay; and
2.	No credit unit shall be cancelled when an employes receives:
(I)	An automatic short week or special short week benefit for a scheduled short work week ;
(N)	A levelling week benefits: or (111) An automatic short week benefit for an unscheduled shod work week payable for Jem than three
(3)	hours.
Section a Armed Sendees
An employeewho enters the Armed Services of Canada directly from the employ of the Company shall, while In such sendee, be deemed, for purposes of the Plan, to be on leave of absence and shall not be entitled to any benefits, All credit unfit credited to an employee at the
time of his entry into such sendee shall becredted to him
ipon his reinstatement as on employee.
Bastion 6. Transfer Out of Bargaining Unit
If an employes Is transferred out Of the Bargaining Unit to a Job which Is not covered by a similar supplemental Unemployment benefit plan of the Company, his credit units shall be welled, They shad be reinstated, how ever, If he is transferred back to the Bargaining Unitwlth, at after h e acquiree, at least one year's seniority therein.
Section 7, Exhaustion of Credit Unite
On exhaustion of an employee's credit units he shall not be entitled to further benefits.
Stetlon 8. Cancellation of Credit Units
Whenanamployee't credit units are cancelled underthe provisions of Section 3 of this Article, he shall be entitled to nofurthor benefits untilha shall have bean credited with additional credit unite.
ARTICLE IV
Application and Determination of eligibility Section 1. Applications
(A)	Filing of Applications.
An application far a benefit may be filed either In person or by mall In accordance with procedures established by the Company. Such procedures shall require the applicant to apply tor« benefitwlthin sixty (60) day*'after each week for which he Is claiming benefits; provided, however, !het If the paymentof the benefit to delayed .because of an Unemployment Insurance System benefit being protested, an apptl-cation may be made within two (2) weeks after the protest has been settled. Undersuchproceduresan employee applying for a benefitshaU be required to appeer personally at a location designated lor this purpose to register a8 an applicant and to supply needed Information at ihe time of,or prior to, making hia first appficatloft following layoff.
(B)	Application information.
Applications filed for a benefit under the Plan will Include:
1.	In wriling any Information deemed relevant by the Company with respect to other benefits received, earnings and the source thereof, dependants, and such other Informalkm a6 the Company may require In order to determine whether the employee to eligible Sr be paid a benefit and ihe amount thereof; and
2.	With respect to a regularor special short week benafit the exhibition of the employee's Unem-
176
pfoymont Insurance System benefit cheque or other evidence satisfactory to the Company of either
(I)	His receipt of or entitlement to an Unemployment Insurance System benefit, or
(II)	His ineligibility for an Unemploymentlnsur-ance System benefit only for one (1) or more of the reasons specified it Section t
(0)	of Article 1.
8e«tlon2, Determination of Eligibility
^Application Processing by Company WhenanappIlaettanfsiHadfarabenefItundBrthe Plan and Oie Companyla tarnished with the evidence and Information required, Ihe Company shell determine die employee's entitlement to a benefit. The Company shaft advise thbemptoyeeofuwntimbqr of oredft units cancelled for each benefit payment and the number of credit unde remaining hi his credit after such payment.
(0) Notification of Trustee I o Pay If the Company determines that a benefit Is payable, it shall deliver prompt written notice to the trustee la pay the benefit The payment of benefits under the Plan may be made by, and toe return of amounts of overpaymentmaybemadeto,therapreMntaOveeof Ihe trustee appointed by It tar such purpose, Such representative may be employees of the Company.
(C)Notlce of Denial of Benefits
If the Company determines that an employee la not entitled to'a benefit, It shall notify him promptly, to writing, of toe reaaonfs) for thedetermlnatton,
(O)Unkin Copies of Application end Pctermtaattone The Company shad forrtshpromptly to the local Union 8.U.B. representative a copy of each application and a copy of all Company determinations ol benefit payment Ineligibility or overpayment.
170
ARTICLE V
Administration of tht Plan and Appeal Procedures
Station t. Powers and Authority of the Company (A) Company Powers
The Company shall have such powers and authority as are necessary and appropriate to orderto carry out its duties under this Article, Including without llmlta-don, the following!
t. To obtain suchlnformatlonastheCompany shall deem necessary in order to cany out As duties underthe Plan;
2,	To investigate the correctness and validity cf Information furnished with respect to an appUoa-lionfor benefit:
3,	' To make Initial determinations with respect to
benefits;
4,	To establish reasonable rules;, regulations and procedures concerning:
(I)	The manner In which and the times and
eacsa at which applications shall be filed r benefits; and
|ll) The form, content and substantiation of applications for benefits,
6.	Todeafgnale an office or department atthe plant, orb the alternative a location lithe general area of theplant, where employees laid off may appear for thepurposeof complying with thePIsn requirements;
8. To determine !he maximum funding of the fond and the trust fond position;
7.	To establish appropriate procedures for giving notices required to be given underthe Plan;
8,	To establish and maintain necessary records; and
0.	To prepare and dlaWbute information explaining file Plan.
180
<B) Company Authority
Nothing contained in this Ran ahall be deemed to qualify, limit or altar in any mannar the Company's sole and complete authority and discretion to establish, regulate, determine or modify at any time levels of employment, hours of work, the extent of hiring and layoffs, production schedules, manufacturing methods, the products and parts thereof to be manufactured, where and when work shell be done»marketlng of ft products, or any other matter retailing to the conduct of its business or the manner in which its business is to be managed or carried on, inthesame mannerand to the same extent an Iflhls Plan were not In existence: nor shell it be deemed to confer either upon the Union or the Hoard of Appeal any voice in such matters.
Section & Appeals Procedure
(A) Brat Step Appeals
TfieCompanyshaH designate one person to serve as Its representative ter the consideration of appeals by applicants and the Union shall designate a representative for the seme purpose. The employee designated as the representatfveof theUnlon shall bepald for time tost from work In attending meetings with the Company representative for ttieconsWerattonofeuch appeals. Such payment shaBbe made directly by the Company.
Any parson who shall have been determined by the Company not to beentttfed to a ben eft. who shall have been determined lobeentRledtobepaidabeneflt that is lesser in amount than the amount to which such person believes he Is entitled, who questions the number of credit units credited to him at the time of layoff,who has hadmoreofWs'eredlt units cancelled than he believes correct or who is determined ft) be Inoflgibtaforabenefit which determination Is disputed byhlm, may appealsuchdstsrmlnatton byprssentlng
161
anappeal (other than determinations madeln connection with Section 1 (B) (9) of Article 0, on a form to be provided for the purpose, either k) the Company representative or to the Union representative, h situations where a number of employees had filed applications for benefits under substantial^ Identical conditions, an appeal may befiledwtih respect to one of such employees and ihe decision thereon shall apply toallsuoh employees. If therels no local Union or plant 8.U .B. representative at the plantbecauee of discontinuance of ouch plant, the appeal maybe filed directly with the Board of Appeals.
Appeals concerning determination made in connection with 8ection 1 (B) (11) of Article I (contrary to Intent of plan) shell be made directly to the Board. Such written appeal must be Died within thirty (30) days following thedateofnotioCofauchdetermlnafion or denial or reduction of such benefit to such person, or within thirty (30) days after the date of mailing of a cheque of such smaller amount by the trustee to such parson. The representative who reoelves said written appeal wW promptly fumtoh one (1) copy tothe representative of the other party. If either the Company representative or the Unton representative shall find that such appeal Is justified, he shall so notify the other representative and the Company representativeand Union representative shall meet within ten (10) days from the dateof the appeal (or such extended time as may be agreed upon) to determine the disposition of such appeal.
Intheeventthe two (2) parties pannot agree uponthe disposition of the appeal, either representative may refer the matter to the Boardof AppealsfOrdiapostiton, on a farm to be provided for that purpose.
(B)1. Within twenty (SO) days after disposition of an appeal by the Company and Union representatives, !he Union representative may request a ruling by the Board of Appeals. Such e request shall be In writing, shal specify ihe respects It
1a2
which the Pten Is claimed to have been violated and ahall set forth the facta reded uponas justifying a reversal or modification of the determination appealed from, A copy of said request will be furnished to the Company representative. The Board of Appeals shaft haveno Jurisdiction to act upon an appeal made after the time specified above or upon an appeal which does not other* wise comply with this Subparagraph. Subject to the Ihiltettons of Subparagraph (2) set forth below, the handling and disposition of such request la the Board of Appeals shall be In accordance with the regulations and procedures established by the Board.
The Union representative, or the Union member of the Board of Appeals m ay withdraw any appeal to the Board at any time before ft is decided by the Board.
2. In ruling uponappaals, the Board shell have no authority to waive, vety, qualify, or alter In any manner, theraflgfbHfty requirements setforth In the Plan, the procedure for applying for benefits set forth herein, or any other provisions of the Plan, and shad have no Jurisdiction other than to determine, on the basis of the facte presented and In accordance with the provisions of the Plan:
(I)	whsthartbe first step appeal end the appeal
of the Board were made within the time and in the manner specified in this Section;
(It) whetherha employee Is an eligible person with respect to the benefit involved and, If so;
(III)	the amount of any benefit payable;
(IV)	whetherthe accrual or oancelalian of credit units was properly determined,
(V)	anyquestlonbyelthertheCompanyorthe Union oonci irhmg the interpretation or application of this Plan unless specifically excluded from the appeals procedure.
183
3.	There shall be no appeal from the decision of the Board of Appeals. It shall be final end binding upon the Union, ita members, the employee hi vofvsd,thetruBtea,andtheCompany. The Union will discourage any attempt of Its member to appealand will no! enoourage or co-operate with any of Its members In any appeal to any court or labour board from any decision of the Board, nor will theUnion or itsmembers by any othermeans attemptto bringaboutasetttemsnt of any claim or Issue on which the Board Is empowered to rule hereunder.
(OAppilcabiHty of Appeals Procedure The appeals procedure set forth In this Section maybe employed only lor the purposesspscMod I n the Plan. Such procedureshall not be used to protest a denial of an Unemployment Insurance System unemployment benefit or to determine whether or not a benefit should hsve been peld under an Unemployment Insurance8ystem. (Appeal proceduresunderUnem-ploymert Insurance taw being the exclusive remedy therefor}. The Boardof Appeals shall have no power to determine questions arising under any Collective Labour Agreement, even though relevant to the la-suee before ths Board. All such questions shall be determined through the regular procedures provided therefor by the Collective Labour Agreement, and all determinations made pursuant to such Agreement shall be accepted by the Board.
(D)Camposltlon and Procedure - Board of Appeals.
1.	There shall be established e Board of Appeals constating of lour (4) members, two (8} of whom dial be appointed by the Company (hereinafter referred to as the Company members}, and two
(2)ofwhomshallbeappointedasfoHow8: one(i) by the International Union, United Rubber, Cork, Linoleum and Plastlo Workers of America, and one(1) by Local 455, hereinafter referred to as the Union members. Each member of the Board shall
134
hove an alternate: In the event a member !s absent from a meeting of the Board, hie alternate may attend, and when In attendance, shaft exer-doe the powers and perform the duties of such member. Eltherthe Company or the Union at any time may remove a member appointed by It end may appoints membertoffll any vacancy among the members appointed by It. The Company end the Union each shall notify the other In writing of the members respectively appointed by It before any such appointment shall be effective.
2.	The m sm bora of the Board a haiiappolnt an impartial chairman, who dial serve until requested In writing to resign by two (2) members ofthe Board, If the members of the Board are unable to agree upon a chairmen, he shall be selected in accordance with the applicable provtskme of the Collective Labour Agreement, The impartial chairman Ohatl be considered a memberof the Board, but shal attend meetings and shall vote only it matters within thaBoard's authority to determine, and only when the other members of the Board shall have been unable to dispose of a matter by a majority vote, except that the impartial chairman shall haveno voteconceming determination made In connection with Section t (B) (6) of Article I (oontrary to fatmt cf Plan).
3.	At least one (1) Union member and one (1) Company membershallbe required to be present at any meeting ofthe Board inorder lo conatitule a quorum for the transaction of buslneae. At all meetings of the Board, the Company members shall haw a total of two (2) votes and the Union members shall have a total of two {2} votes, the vote of any absent member being given to the member present, appointed by the same patty. Decisions of the Board shall be by a majority of the votes cast.
4.	The Board shall not maintain any separate office
or staff, but the Company and Union ahafl be responsible forfumlshlng such clerical and other assistance as its respective members of the Board ahall require. Copies of all appeals, reports ► and documents to be filed with the Board pursuant to the PlanshaUbefHedta duplicate, one (1) copy to be sent to the Company members at the address designated by them, andthe otherto be set to the Union members at the address designated by them.
Ssotlon 3. Determination of Dependants
(A)	Regular Benefits
In determining an employee's dependants for pur. poses of regular benefits determinations, the Cam-pany shall be entitled to mty upon the official form filed by the employee with the Company for Income tax withholding purposes, and the employee shall have the burden of establishing that he Is entlllad to a greater number of withholding exemptions than he shell have claimed on such form.
(B)	AHowable Earnings
In calculating an employee's allowable earnings, the Company shall be entidsd to rely uponauch information as may be available listing dependants. The employes shall have !he burden of establishing that heleentlDedto a differentnumberof dependants than that being used by the Company.
Seetlen A, To Wham Benefits Are Payable In Certain Conditions
Benefits ahall be payable only to the eligible employee, except that If the Compartyshall And that l heemployeeie deceased or is unable to manage his affairs for any reas on, any benefit payable tohlmstrall bepald to Wadulv
186
appointed legal representative, If thoebeone.and, if not, to the spouse, parents, children, ’or other relatives <r dependants of the employee as the Board In Its discretion may determine,
AiybenefitsopBldehall be a com pletedlsebarge of any debility with respect fosuch benefit, in the case of death, no benefit Bhall be payable with respect to any period tofiewing the last day of layoff Immediately preceding the employee's death.
Section 8. NonsUenatton el Benefits
Except fOradeducllonspeeiflcallyprovirfedfor underfills Ran, no benefit shall be subject In any way toaUenation, sale, transfer, assignment, pledge, attachment, garnishment, execution, orancumbranceof any XInd and any attempttoaccomplishthesameehBlibevotd, In the event that such an attempt hasbeen madewfth respect to any benefit due or to become due to any emptoyee,th9 Company ink eole dkemtion may terminate the interest of the employee in thsbenef K and apply the amount of the benefit to orfer the benefit cf the employee, his spouse, parents, children, or other relatives or dependants as the Company may determine and any such application shall be a complete discharge of ell liability with respect to the benefit
Section 6, Applicable Law
The Plan and ell rights and duties thereunder shall be governed, construed, and administered In accordance with the laws of the Province cf Ontario, except that the eUgibflfty of an employeefor.andlh* amount and duration of, Unemployment insurance System benellts shad be determined In accordance with the Unemployment ins ur-enca laws of the Unemployment Insurance System.
Section 7, Grievance Procedure
No question involving the interpretation or application of 187
the Plan, except to toe extant otherwise specified in Section 2 of this Article, shall be subjectto the grievance procedureprovlded In the CottaodveUbour Agreement.
ARTICLE VI RnenoJet Provisions Section 1, Eetabltehment of Fund
The Company ahall maintain a fund In accordance with this Supplemental Unemployment Benefit plan, with a chartered bank or banks or a qualified trust company or companies selected by the Company as trustee. The Company’aconlr^uione shall be madelnto the Fund,the asaeteofwhlch shirt I be held, Invested and applied by the trustee, all In accordance the Plan. Benefits shall be payabiecnly from such find TheCompany shad provide In the contract with Ihetniatee lhat the fund shell beheld In cash or Invested only In general obligations of the Government of the Dominion of Canada and/or the Government of a Canadian Province.
8eotlon 2. Maximum Fuiuflng And Tritet Fund Position
(A)	Maximum Funding
There shall be a maxim urn funding ol the fund for each calendar month (and for each pay period when required by the provMone of Subsection (S) of this Section). Commencing wflh the monthfotowmg the month in which to e Plan becomes effective and for any month thereafter the maximum funding of the fund shad be determined by multiplying the sum of (l)the number of employeesontheectlve payroll and (!■) the number of persona laid off from work who are noton the active payrollbutwho have credit units; the above number of employees and persons shall be a8 determined by the company se the latest periodfor which (tie figures areaveUaMeprter to the first Monday in thB month for which the maximum funding le being deter-168
mined (or prior lo the pay period II the maximum funding la being determined fora pay period) by die applicable amount aa shown In the (blowing table:
(1)	For the month of July, T973
and succeeding months	$380
(2)	Forthe month In which the trust fund m ou nt Drat reaches S380
and succeeding months	$378
(3)	Forthe month In which the trust fund amount first reaohei $278
end succeeding months	$400
(4)	Far the month in which Ihe trust fund amountflret reaches $400
and succeeding months	$42B
(8) Forthe month In which the trust fund amount first reaches $428 end succeeding months	$480
(e) For the month h which the trust fund amount first reaches $460 and succeeding months	$478
(7)	Far the month In which the trust fund amount first reaches $475
and succeeding months	$800
(8)	Forthe month h which the trust fund amount first reaches $800
end succeeding months	$828
(9)	Forthe month In which the trust fund amountflret reaches $528
and eucoeeding months	$880
(IQ)For the month hi which the trust fund amount first reaches $889 end succeeding months	$875
(11)	For the month In which (he trust fund amount first reaches $875
and succeeding months	$800
(12)	For the monlh In which the trust fund amount first reaches $600
and succeeding months	$629
(13)	Forthe month In which the feist
169
fund amount first isaohes $625 end succeeding months
6880
(14)For the month In which the trust fund amount first reaches6680 and succeeding months
6976
{1S)Fof the month hi which die truBl fund amount first reaches 6875 and succeeding months
6700
(16)For the month In which the trust fund amount first reaches 6700 and succeeding months
6725
(17)Fcr the month Inwhloh the trust find amount first reaches $725 and succeeding months
$750
(3)rrruit FundAmount
There shall betrustluridamount forthefiind for each month commencing with the month of March, 1968. The trustfumfamountforHrty particular month shallbe determined by dividing fits currantmarket value ofthe Mat assets £ such fund as of the close of business on tho Friday preceding the first Monday of such month, as certified by the trustee, bythe lumof (I) the numberof employees on the active payrolland (II) the number of parsons laid off from work who are not on theacflvepayroll, but who have credit units, such total number to be that used li determining the maximum funding forsuoh month Inaccordance with Paragraph (A) of this Section. The trust fund amount forthe fund tor any particular month cammefldng with Match,
1688, shall be appllad In connection with such fund tor alt purposes under the Plan to each of the pay periods beginning within such month.
(C)Trust Fund Position
There shell be. a tnst fund position (stated as a percentage) lor the fund lor each calendar month commencing with the month of March, 1998. The trust fund p ositton for the fund for any particular month shall
bedetermtaed by dividing the current market value of
the total assets In such fund as of theclose of business
on the Friday preceding the first Monday of such month, as certified by the trustee, by the maximum funding of such fund for auch month. The truat fund position for the fund lor any particular month shall be applied In connection with auch fund for all purposes under the Plan to each of the pay periods beginning within such month; provided, however, that after March 1,1 MB, whenever the trust fund position forthe fund for any particular month is leas lhan 10%, such tmstfuid position shal be appffed inconnection with such fund for all purposes under the plan only to the first pay period beginning within such month. And thereafter there shall be determined a truat fund position (stated as e percentage) for such fund for each pay period until the trust fund position for a particular pay period equate or exceeds 10%. When the trust fund position for a particular pay period equate or exceeds such percentage such trust position shall be applied In connotation with subfund lor such purposes to each pay period unfit a truat fund poaiNori for the following calendar month siutlf be applicable pursuant to this Section. The trust fund position for the fund for a particular pay period shall be determined by dividing the current market vetueof the total assets In such fund as ot the dose of business on the Friday preceding such pay period, an certified by the trustee, by the maximum funding of auch fund lor such pay parted.
(D)FlnaWy of Detarmlrietlons
No adjustment In the maximum funding, mist fund m ount, or the trust fond position of the fond shal be made on account of any subsequently discovered error In the computations or the figures used h making the computations, except (I) In foe case of an errors bad faith, or (II) in foe case whereafter discovery of an error adjustment is practicable, and then the adjustment shal only be prospective In effect, unless such adjustment wnJd be substantial ki the opinion of tfre Company. Nothingln foeforegolng shall beconstniad
191
to excuse the Company from making upany shortage ki ita contributions to (he kind.
Section 3. Contributions by Company
(A) Company Contributions
1.	Commencing with the pay period beginning April 1, 1990, and with respect to each pay period thereafter, for which the applicable trust fund m o u n t S less thanths figure shown h CdumnA; IheCompany shall makeacontribullon to thefund of an amount to ba determined by multiplying the applicable figure in ColumnB by the total number of hours for which employees shal have received pay from the Company for such pay period (or such lesser amount as will bring the total market value of the tond to the than applicable trust fund amount In QolumnA, In which case theremainder of said total numbarof hours shall ba multiplied by the next lower figure Inthe applicable ColumnB).
Column A	Columns
$150	$.17
$300	$.15
$450	$.13
$600	$.11
$850	$.09
$760	$.07
2.	Inaddltlontotheconlributlanaotherwlserequired bythlsArtiole,theCompanyshalloantrlbutetothe fund tfieamountof any automatic short week and special short week benefits paid from the find as scheduled short work week benefits for any pay periods for which (he trust fund amount is less then $180,00.
3,	NotwlthslandlngarryotherprovialonsafthtsAgreement the CompanyshaH not be obligated to make any contribution to the fund with respect to any pay period for which the applicable trust fund amount is more than $750.00, and no contrlbu-
192
Horn to the fund for any pay period shall be In excess of theamountnecessary to bring the total market value of the assets hi such fund up to $760.00.
(B|Whsn Contributions are Payable
t. Contributions by the Company shall be made on or before the close of business on the first regularly scheduled work day In the third calendar week following the pay period with respect to which the contribution b being made,
In periods In which the trust kind position equals or exceeds 10% weekly contributions may ba accumulatad end made on or before the dose of business on ttwffrst regularly scheduled workday of the calendar week In which the Friday used for determining the trust fund position kills.
2.	The first contribution by the Company to thefund shari be made on the Monday following the last Friday of the calendar month next following the calendar month In which fulfillment of all of the applicable conditions to effectlveneet of the Plan with respect to such fund set forth In Article VIII shad have been completed.
3,	The first cantrtautlon by the Com pany to the fund shall cover aM amounts required robe paid under this Article lo such kind with respect to each pay period beginning within the period of time commencing after April 1,1990, and ending with the lastday of thetast payperiod immediately preceding the date on which (he krst contribution under Subsection (A) (1) of this Section shall become payable.
(C) Reductions from Contributions
Contributions required by the provisions of Section 3(A) of this Article shell bereduced by the following:
1.	Thecostofprovldlnghospltal-medlcalbenefilefbr laid off employees as specified in the Pension Plan and Severance Award Agreement and the Health and Ufa insurance Agreement less the
193
period following layoff for which the Company pays otherwise;
2.	The amount of money added to each vacation cheque at the time written due to short week benefit payments, consistent with the terms of the Coflecllve labour Agreement;
3.	If contributions to thefund are not required for any parted, or if the contributions required are lees (hah the amounts to be offset under this Para, graph (C), then any subsequently required contrh bulloneahalt bereduced bytheamountnotprevl-ou$iy offset against contributions;
4.	Any such amounts not previously offset against contributions shall be deducted from the market volueof I he assets bitha fund In determining iruat fund position and the relationship of (he fund tq maximum funding;
5.	If the Company at any time shall be required to withhold any amountfrom any contribution to the fund by reason of any government, or provincial law or regulation, the Company shall have the rtght todeductsuch amountfrom the contribution and pay only the balance to the fund,
Suctions. Llsbility
(A)	The Company shall not beobllgeted to make up or to provide for making up, any depredation, or loss arising from depredation, Inthe value otlheaeourltlee held In the lurid (other than a8 contributions by the Company may be required under the provietoneof this Aitlde when the market vaiueofthesssetsofthefund Is leas thanthemaxirTujmfundtr>g);arxJlhaUnfort shall not call an the Company lomaka-up. or to provide lor making up, any such depredation or lose.
(6) The Company, the trustee, and the Union, and each ofthem, shell notbekebtebeoauseof any act or failure to act on the part of any of the others, and each is authorized to rely on te correctness of any Informa-194
tton furnished to It by an authorized representative of any of (to others.
(C) Notwithstanding the above provisions, nothing In this Section shall bs deemed to relieve any person from (lability lor wiHM misconduct or fraud.
(DJThe trustee shall not be liable tor the making or retaining of any Investment or tor realized or unreal* Ized low thereon whether from normal or abnormal economic conditions or otherwise.
Section s. No Vested Interest
• No employee shall haveany right, title, or Internet in or to
any of the assets of the fund, Or In or to any Company
contribution thereto.
Sections. Reports
(A)	Report by the Company
1.	TheCompanyehalfnotifythelocalUnionandthe International Union monthly of the amount of maximum fuYfng,truet1utoamountandthetnjM fundpoaltfonforthefundoBdetermlnedbyltunder toe Plan, and shall furnish a statement showing the n u mber of employees on the active payroll and toe number of laid off employees having credit units upon which the trust fund position determination was made.
2.	On or before Jute 1 of each year toe Company shal furnish Id the loeal Union and Intarhattonat Union an statement certified by a qualified Independent firm of certified public accountants selected by the Company;
(I) showing toe number of hours for which employees drew pay from toe Company and with respect to which the Company shall have made contributions to the fund during each period of the preceding year, and
195
(II) Verifying the accuracy of Ihe Information furnished by the Company during the preceding year purauant to Subsection (A) (1) of this Section.
3.	The Company will comply with reasonable requests by the Union tor other statistical Information on the operation of the Planwhlch the Com. party shill compile. Such information will Include the following:
(A)	Thenumber of employees on layoff monthly:
(B)	Theamountof regularbenefilspald, special and automatic short week benefits paid;
(C)	The duration cf regularbenefita;
(0)	The number of employees who have exhausted their regular baneflte each calendar year;
(E)	The number of employees laid off and Ineligible for regularbenefita because of having Isas than Ohs (1) year of seniority;
(F)	The total number of employees who received tme (1) or more regular benefits, special and automatic short week benefits;
(G)	The amourrtof the reductions monthly from contributions reduced by the provisions of (C) of Section 3 and the amounts under each category listed In (G);
(H)	The number ef employees who drew more than fifty-two (52) credit units during a con-tinucus period by designated seniority brackets each calendar year;
(1)	On or before February 28th of each year, the Company shod furnish to each employee the amount of benefits received by him under the plan;
(J)	The Company will comply with reasonable requests by the International Union for other statistical Information on the operation of the Plan which Ihe Company may have compiled.
(B)	Reports by the Trustee
1. Within ten (10) days after (he commencement of each month, beginning with the month In which the Company shell have made its first contribution under the Flan, the trustee shall be required to furnish to the local Union,international Union and the Company a statement showing the amounts received from the Company for thefund during the preceding month,
i. No later than the second Tuesday following the first Monday of each month, the trustee shall fumlsh to the local Union, International Union and the Company (l)a statement showing the total market value of thefund as of the doae of business on theFrlday following thetaat Monday of the preceding month, and (II) a statement showing the amounts, If any, paid as benefits from the fund each week during the preceding month.
Section 7. Cart of Administering the Plan
(A)	Expense of Trustee.
The costs and expensesIncurred by thetnjstee under the Planand the feea charged by the Trustee shall be charged to the fund.
(B)	The compensation of the Impartial Chairman, which shall be In such amountand on such bashas may be determined by the other membersof the Board, shall be paid from the fund, reasonable and necessary expenses of the Board for forms and stationery require In connection with the handling of appeals shall bebomaby thefund. TheCompanymembersand (he Union members of the Board shall serve without compensation from !he fund.
(C)	Coat of Services.
The Com pany a hal I be retmbu r sed each year from the fund for the cost of the Company of bank fees and auditing fees.
197
Section 6. Benefit Draft* Not Praaantad
If th» trustee has segregated ary portion of the fund In connection with any determination that a benefit & payable under the Plan end the amounts euoh benefit Is not claimed within a periodof two (2) years firm the date of such determination, such amount shall revert to the fund.
ARTICLE VII
Condition e to Efteetlveneaa and Continuation of Plan
Section 1. Effect of Amended Agreement
Thin amended Agreement on Supplemental Unemployment benefits, when Itbecomeeeffectfveehafiitupersede end completely replace and supplant the original Agreement on Supplemental Unemployment benefits concluded between the partlee March 3,1887, ae from time to time thereafter amended.
However, untH eueh lime a5 this Agreement becomes effective, Ihe Plan shall be governed In aD respects by the terms of the original Agreement of March 3,1957, as heretofore amended,
Section 2. Income Tan Ruling*
This amended Agreement shal not become effective unless and until fits Company shall have received from the Minister of National Revenue and the applicable Provincial Treasury Department, a currently effective ruHngorrulings,satisfactory toihsCompany, holding that the amendment of the Plan accomplished hereunder dose not modify, alter, of change In any manner, the ruling* previously issued by the Minister and applicable provincial Treasury Department, with respect to the Plan, Including particularly their determination that Company contrlbutiona to the Plan shall constitute a currently deductible expense, and that such contributions are not taxable Income to the trust underthe Dominion Income 188
Tax Act, applicable provincial and/or municipal Corporation Tax Art#, a* now Ineffect, ores may behemafter In effector under any other applicable Dominion or provincial and/or municipal income or Corporation# Tax law,
Sections. Unemployment ineurance CommiMlon Rulings and Supplementation.
It lathe purposeof the PlantosupplementUnemployment InsuranceSenaflts to thelevele herein provided, and net to repbceor duplicate them,
Section A Application for Ruling*
The Company atari! apply promptly lor any required ruling# from the appropriate agencies. Copies of ell correspondence covering such rulings shall be mailed to the International Union and the local Union.
ARTICLE VIII MieoallHieoue Section 1, Receipts of Benefits
Neither the Company's contribution nor any benefit paid under the Plan shall be considered a part of any employes's wages lor any purpose, No person who receives any benefit shall for that reason be deemed an employee of the Company during such period, and he shell not thereby accrueany greater right to participate In, accrue credits <r receive benefit# under any other employee benefit Plan to which the Company contributes than he would if he were receiving such benefits.
Section 2. Effect on Revocation of federal Ruftnga
In the event that any ruling required under Sections 2 and 3 of ArticleVII,having beenobteined, shall be revoked or modified toauch manner ee no longer to be satisfactory
tothe Company,al obligation* of theCompany undertfie Plan shall cnn, and the Plan ahallthereupon terminate and ba of no furthareffact (without In anyway affecting the validity of operation of the Collective Labour Agreement or any other Agreement between the Company and the Union), except for the purpose of paying the expenses of administration andpaylng benefits,all Inaccortiance with the provtotonaofthe Plan, unW the assets of thefund shall have been exhausted, except that Section 6 of Article it shelf notbe applicable. If there areesasts stHI remaining In the fund, the provlalona of Section 3(B) of Artlote Vlll shall apply to their disposition.
Ssctlon 3. AmsndmsntendTsrmlnatlonofthsPlan
(A)	So longas the Collective Labour Agreement ofwhlch this Supplemental Unemployment Benefits Plan as emended Isa partahallramain Staffed, the Plan shall not be amended,modified,suspended orterminatsd, except an may ba proper or permissible under the terms of tha Plan or the Collective Labour Agreement. UponterrnlnetlonottheColleetlveUbourAgreamenti the Company shel havethe right to continue the Plan In effect and lo modify, mend, suspend or terminate the Plan, except as may be otherwise provided In any subsequent Collective Labour Agreement between Ihe Company and the Union.
(6) Upon any termination of the Plan, (ho Plan shall terminate In all respects, except that the assets then remaining In the fund she* be subject to all of the applicable provisions of the Plan then In effect, and ahali be used until exhausted to pay expenses of administration, end to pay benefit* to eligible applicants laid off In theorder each week of therespectfve dates* of which they were laid off. Section 6, Article II, ahali notbe applicable. In the event there are any asset* m the fund after all of the above payment* have betnmade, Ihe remetnlngeaaets ahallbe refundedto the Company.
200
(C)	Notwithstanding any other provisions of the plan, the Company, with the consent of the Union, may make such revisions in the Plan not Inconsistent with the purpose, structure, and basic provisions thereof as shall be necessary to obtain or maintain any rulings required under the Plan, Any such revision shall adhere as closely as possible to die language and Intent of the Plan.
(D)	Thls Agreement andthsobllgatton of the Company to continue the Plan without change or modification (swept as permitted hereunder) during the Iks of the Colsative Labour Agreement shall be deemed sup. plemental to and part of the Collective Labour Agree* mem, and during the term of the Collective tabour Agreement neitherthe Company nor the Union shall request any change In.detetionfrom, or addition to the Plan or Agreement
Ssotlon 4. Ratification
This Agreement shall not become effective unless and unto this Agreement and the Collective Labour Agreement, executed concurrently herewith, shall both have been ratified and approved by the Local Union end also the International Union and written notice of such ratification and approval shall havebeen received by the Company.
Section s. Union identification of Benefit Cheques All cheques payable fer any benefit or payment underthe Plan shall Indicate that the benefit or payment z being made £1 accordance with the Agreement on Supplemental Unemployment benefits between the Company end the Union.
ARTICLE IX Definitions
As used herein;
1 “Acttve Payroll’ ■ an employee Is onlhe active payroll 201
In any pay period ter which he draws pay;
2.	"Average Hourly Earrings" means an employee's houriy earnings pfusWe off shift premium butexdud-Ing overtime based on a six week pay period Immediately preceding the date of his lay off, provided that It such employee was assigned or transferred to a new operation at a lower rate during such six week pay period, the hours worked and his earnings or such new jab will be excluded from hie average hourly earnings. Provided, however, that should the employee have no earnings during such six week period other than os a learner, his average hourly earnings shall be based on the first work week preceding such teeming period.
It a general wage increase has become effective between theperiodferwhleh average hourly earnings has bssn calculated, and the date of layoff, such general wage Increase shall be added ta the hourly eernlnga so calculated.
hi order to provide a minimum appropriate to the current wage scales In the plant, the average hourly eernfnge ahaH In no case be deemed »o be less than two dollars and thirty-live cents per hour, for the purpose of calculating the benefits payable.
3.	"Bargaining Unit" • means a unit cf employees covend by the Collective labour Agreement.
4.	"Benefit" - means an automatic short week benefit, regular benefit, special short week benefit, or any or aK three (3) a8 indicated by the context,
(A) “Automatic Short Week Benefit" means Ihe benefit payable to an etlglblaemployee for ashort work week tor which his Company pay and any Company pay which he woddhave received for hours scheduled tor or made available to him but not worked equalled or exceeded his allowable earnings-
IB) "Leveling Week Benefit" means the weekly supplemental benefit payable to an eligible employee tor all or part of a week because, with respect to
202
the week, he was serving an Unemployment Insurance System ^«rttlngweek"snd during such week or part hereof ha wn temporarily laid off out of line of seniority pending placement In accord* ance with the terms of the Collective Labour Agreement.
(C) 'RegularBflrieffi*msans the benefit payabletoan ellgfoJe employee foraweek of layoff In which he performed no work for the Company, or In which he performed some work for the Company but neither the period worked nor pay received was sufficient to disqualify him for an Unemployment Insurance System benefit and the amount of the special short work week benefit calculated fir such week was less than the regular benefit amount;
(0) 'Special Short week Benefit* means the benefit payable to an ofiglbie employee lor a short work week for which hie Company pay end any Company pay which hewould have received for hours scheduled for or made available to him bur not worked did not equal or exceed Ms allowable earnings;
(E)	"Weekly Supplemental Benefit" means either a regular benefit or a special short week benefit, payable under the Plan.
0.	"Board" meansthe Board of Appeals.
8. "Colleeiive Labour Agreement" means the currently effective Cofiedive Labour Agreement between the Company and the Union which Incorporates this Plan by reference and the Supplements thereto.
7. ”Company”ahaJI mean QenCorp Canada Ino., Welland, Ontario.
& "Compensated or Available Hours" tor a week shaH be the sum of:
(A) All hours for which an employee receives pay from the Company (including reporting pay end holiday pay, butexcludlng pay in lieu of vacation) wilh eachhourpald at premium rates to be counted
os on# hour
(B)	All hours scheduled (or or mad# available to the employee bytheCompany butnotworkedby him after notice consistent with existing practice undo-die Collective Labour Agreement (including any period on leave of absence), When work is offered and refused, hours charged will no! exceed hours made available and such hours will be charged In the following order
1.	To the employees who actually performed the work offered,
2.	To employees who signified their Intention to work and then failed to report,
3.	To employees who first refusedthe opportunity far the work In the went ttiat Insufficient employees offered to work the hours available (Includesabsent employees who otherwise would have been offered the work).
(0 All hours notworked by theemployeebpeause of
any of lha reasons disqualifying the employes
from receiving a benefit under Subsection 4 (B) (2) of Article I; and
(P)	All hours not worked by the employee which are In accordence with a written Agreement between local Management and designated local Union representatives: and
(E)	Allhours which are attributable to absenteeism oi other employees, providing such absenteeism was not caused by an act of Cod; and
(F)	Wlh raspect to any employee who is regularly scheduled leas than the hours of the standard workweek (40), the number of hours by which his regularly scheduled hoursaw less than the hours of the standard work week: and
(<3) All horns notworked by the employee because of work sharing required by the Collective Labour Agreement except:
(I) Where lha Union Is not asked by the Com-204
pany to waive tha work sharing provisions: or
(II) When ths Union refuses to waive !he work sharing provisions and the Company, after !he work sharing period, fails to lay off;
(H)	Allhours not worked bythe employee because of a change In shift resulting from a request of the employee,
6. <lCredltUnlta*meanstheunitsdetermlfllngduration of an employee's benefits which are credited to him generally by reason of his weeks ofacthre service and oancelled at specified rates for !he paymentof certain benefits:
10.	"Dependent" means any person recognized as such underthe provisions of the Dominion Unemployment Insurance Act, 1858, bythe Unemployment Insurance Commission.
11.	"Employee" means an employee of the Company while, during the Ufa of Ihta Agreement, he is In the Collective Bargaining Unit a8 defined In and covered by the Collective Labour Agreement.
12.	"Allowable Earnings" means ihe amount of earnings the employee 18permitted to earn before any deductions would be made from his weekly unemployment Insurance benefits-
13.	"Fund" means a trust fund established under tha Plan to receive and Invest Company contributions and to pay benefits.
14.	''Ptafl'mean* the Supplemental Unemployment Benefits Ptaneslebllahed by "Agrssmsnt on Supplemental UnemploymentBanefits" between the Company and the Union dated Marph 7th, 1807, aa fromtlme to time amended, end aa continued under this Agreement
18. “Plant" means QenCorp Canada lno„ Welland, Ontario.
16.	"Seniority" means seniority status underthe Cokec-ttve Labour Agreement.
17.	"Short Work Week’ means a work week during which an employee performs some work tor the Company or
200
performed compensated work for the Union or was otherwise compensated by the Company for a day or part thereof but his compensated or available hours for such week are less than thenumber of hours In his standard work week. Curing a week of scheduled shutdown, compensation fora holldayorhoHdays (but only with respect to an employee laldotf In a reduction cf force In accordance with the applicable Collective Labour Agreement), for vacation or for work for the Union or a combination thereof, shall not of Hseif qualify him for a benefit hereunder;
^"Unemployment lnsurance8ystem" means the system or prog ram,established by law, for paying bene* (lie to persons on account of their unemployment, under which an individual's eligibility for benefit payments le not determined by application of a "means" or "disability* test; Including any such system or program established for the primary purpose of education or vocational training where such programs may provide for training allowances.
1 ^'Unemployment Baneffi* means a benefit payable undereuchUnemployment Insurance Systemlnclud-Ing any dependency allowances and training allowances (excluding any allowance for transportation, subsistence, equipment orothercostof training), If an employes receives a Workers'Compensation Benefit while working lull time and a higher Workers' Compensation benefit while on layoff from the Company, only theamount by which thoWorkers’Compensatlon benefit la increased shall be Included.
^“Supplementation* meansrecogntHon of therlght of a parson to receive both an Unemployment Inauranee System benefit and a weekly supplemental benefit underthePlan forth# same week oflayoff at approximately the same time and without reduction of the UnemploymentlnsuranceSyslem benefit because of thepaymentof the weekly supplemental benefit under the Plan.
21.	"Trustee" means the trustee or trustees of ths fund 206
established underthe Plan,
22.	'Trust Fund Position" means the percentage position of the fund as determined periodically pursuant to the provisions of Aittole VI.
Trust Fund Amount" mean8the dollar amount inthe fund perellglble employee as determined periodically pursuant to the provisions of Article VI.
23.	"Unfon'means Local 48Sol the United Rubber, Cork, Unoleum and Plastic Workers of America.
24.	■Week1'when used In connection with eligibility for and computation of benefits with respect to an employee means:
(A)	A period of layoff equivalent to a work week: (6)A work week for which a full-time employee shall have been scheduled or offered work for lees then twenty-seven (27) hours Including hours paid lor but not worked) if on a standard eight (6) hour day;
(C)	A short work week.
"Week of Layoff’ shall Include any such week; provided, however, that If there la a difference between the starting time of fhe work week and of a week underdo applicable UnemploymenSnaur-ance System, tha work week shal be paired with the UnamptoymentlnsurancaSystem week which corresponds most closely thereto In time: except that If an employee la Ineligible lor an Unemployment Insurance System benefit because of any of !he reasons set forth in Section 1 (8) of Article I (exchid/ng Item (3) thereof) for the entire continuous period of layoff, the w o k underthe Unemployment insurance System shall be assumed to be the same as the work weak. If an employee becomes Ineligible for an Unemployment Insurance System benefit because of the reasons set forth in 8ectlon t (B) of Article I, (excluding item (3) them), during a continuous period of layoff, the week under the Unemployment Insurance System shall beassumed to contlnueto be, for the duration of the layoff period during which he
207
remains so Ineligible, theseven (7) day period lor which an UnemploymentlnsuranceSystem Benefit waepald to thaemployeeduringsuchcontlnu-0U8 period ol layoff. Each week within a confirm* ous period of layoff will not be considered a new <r separate layoff.
as.“Weekly Straight Time Pay* an amount equal to an employee's average hourly earnings (as determined fora weekly aupplemwterybsneflt) multiplied byforty {40) or in the ease of a part time employee, by the proportionately reduced numberof hours.
20, Work Week* or "Pay Period* means seven (7) eon. secuUvt days beginning on 8unday at the regular starting time of the shift to which the employee Is assigned or was last assigned Immediately prior to being laid off.
27.’Stendard Work Week" • the standard work week for the purpose of computing a special short week bene* fit, the automatic short week benefit and a regular beneflfwhen comparing with a apodal short week benefit shall be no more than forty (40) hours, and shall be the number of hours In the standard work week aa stated in the Collective Labour Agreement, AftTICLEX
Duration and Termination
This eleventh amended Agreement shaB become effective on March 8,1892 and shall continue Ineffect without change or modification except a8 provided above for a periodofthreeyeersexplrlngonJune1,19B6. (Theprior Agreement concluded between the parties on March 8, 1999, having been iieffectfrom April 1,1990 to June 1, 1993).
This Agreement shall continue In force after June 1,1996 from year to year unless either party glvss the other p arty notice In writing of cancellation or proposals for revision within a period of not lest than two (2) months or more than three (3) months prior to Ihe anniversary date. If 208
either party gives the other a noth* of cancelation, this Agreement shad terminate In accordance with such nodes. If either party gives the other anotiea of proposals for revision In accordance wllh the above terms, the parties shall meet to oonaktar the proposed revisions within fifteen daysof thedateofdeliveryofauoftnoHae. If no agreement onthe proposed revisions Is reached by midnight June 1, 1096, or by midnight of any other subsequent anniversary date, at the cats may be, tMa Agraament shad be continued In operation foraperiodnot exceeding one year until a new Agreement le reached or untllthe procedure contemplated bythe LabourRelatlona Act has been completed,
This Memorandum of Agreement la subject to the approval of the membership Of Local 488 end the Interne-tlonat Union, United Rubber, Cork, Unoleum and Plastic Workers of America, AFL-CIO-CLC,
Signed thlaSttt day of Mareh, 1993, at Welland, Ontario,
LOCAL 450,	GENCORP
UNITED RUBBER, CORK, CANADA INC. UNOLEUM AND PLASTIC WELLAND. WORKERS OF AMERICA,	ONTARIO
AFL'CIO-OLC
F. Houle	B. Baird
T. GaapsretH	□. Whldden
N. Labbe	N. Mailhol
8. Martin	0, Motnar
P. Lampman	T. Qrano
C, 8dme, International
Field Representative
209
March a, 1993
The President Local Union 480,
The United Rubber, Cork, Linoleum and Plastic Workers ot America.
214 King Street,
Welland, Ontario
Den'Sir:
This letter wHI serve to confirm the undertaking given to you by the Company during recent negotiations that the provisions for reductions from contri buttons as outlined In Article VI, Subsection 3 (C) (1) of the S.U.B. agreement will not apply during the term of this Agreement Yours vary truly,
8.D. Baird
Manager, Human Resources
Separation Payment Plan
TWe Agreement madeandentarad into as ofthls 1st day of April, 1990, by end between QenCorp Canada Inc., (hereinafter referredto as the “Company") and Local Mo, 485, United Rubber,Cork,Linoleum andPlastlc Workers of America (hereinafter referred I o as the "Union"). Whereas the parties hereto established a Supplemental Unemployment Benefits Plan by an Agreement on Supplemental Unemployment Benefits dated the 3rd day of March,1987, which has been amended from time to time. And whereas in conjunction with such Plan the parties haveagresdtoenterintoOils Separation Payment Plan. Now therefore it £ mutually agreed as follows;
Section 1. Definitions
(A)The term "Company" shell mean QsnCorp Canada 210
Inc., Welland, Ontario.
(B)	The term "Plan"aa used herein shallmean the Agree* merit on Supplemental Unemployment Benefits on* teredMto by the Company and the Union at It may be ernendedfrorntimetetlme and IhauohAgreemantthe (arm "Plan"shatl be construed to Include the Separa* tlon Payment Plan except where such construction wodd be Inconsistent with the provisions of this Agreement.
(C)	The tern ‘Separation Payment'’ means such benefit unpayable to eligible employees Inaccordance with the terms of (Me Separation Payment Plan,
(D)	The term ‘Union* means Local 466 ofthe United Rubber, Cork, Linoleum end Plastic Workers of America, representing certain employees at Gan* Cog) Canada Inc., Welland, Ontario.
(E)	Other Terms:
Any other term used herein which ha8 a counterpart which le defined Intho Supplemental Unemployment Benefits Agreement ae amended shall have the same meaning for the purposes of this Separation Payment Plan ns such term has under the Supplnm ertfal Unemployment Benefits Agreement,
Seothm2. Eligibility
An applicant who lean employeson or after June t, tfl$4
shall be eligible for a Separation Paymentprovldedthet:
(A)	On or after June f, 1M4 h* fe laid off frgm the Company and has recall righfsundw the Collective Labour Agreement: and Ihe reason far layoff was not the result of m y of the circumstances specified In Article t * Sectlon4 (0),(2),(3], (4) ofthe Supplemental Unemployment Benefits Plan, and the layoff Is for a continuousperfodof at least two years orsuchshorter period aa the Company may determine on the basis of re-emptaymant prospects; and
(B)	He has had two or more yeara ofsenlority on Ihe lest day worked for the Company; and
211
(C)He has nol received or le not eligible to reoelve a service award under any Pension Plan and Service Award Agreement of the Company; and <D) He hasmadeappflcationtoraSeparation Payment h accordance with the procedure eitabllshed by (he Company subsequent to twenty-four (24) months from the commencement data of the layoff and prior to the date he loses his seniority under the Collective Labour Agreement, excepthi the case of anapplicsnt whose seniority la lost an the expiry of two years of layoff who must apply within thirty days after foe lose of his seniority rights to be eligible.
Section 3. Method of Payment
(A) A Separation Payment shell be payable to foe employee by lie Company In a lumpsum.
(S)	When foe applicable trust fund position for foe week In which a Separation Payment becomes payable is equal to or In excess of fifty (SDK) percent such payment shall be a first charge against any and all future Company contributions to the trust fend.
(C)Wtien the applicable trust fund position tor the week in which e Separation Payment becomes payable Is lees than fifty percent (80%) such payment shell not be charged against future contributions to the trust fend for the purpose of computing trust fond position or otherwise and shall be paid by Hie Company directly,
8eoUon «. Amount of Separation Payment
(A) The amount of the Separation Payment payableto an eligible applicant shall be the following:
(I)	Foranemployeehavingtwoormorebutlessthan three completedyearsof credited service with the Company prior to hie most recent layoff, Ms average hourly earnings multiplied by fifty (60)
(II)	For an employee having three or more but 212
less than four completed years <f credited service with the Company prior to his most recent layoff, his average hourly earnings multiplied by seventy-live (75).
(Ill)	For an employee having four or more but less than five completed years Of credited service with the Company prior to hfsmoat recent layoff, his avenge hourly earnings multiplied by one hundred (100).
(IV)	Fqr an employee having five or more but lass than ten completed years of credited service prior to hla most recent layoff, two percent (2%)bt hie total earnings (as defined tn Subsection (B) cl this Section A. )
(V)	For an employee having ten or more but lass Ihart fifteen completed years of credited service prior to his most recent layoff, two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of his total earnings (as defined in Subsection (B) of this Section 4.)
(VI)	For an employee having fifteen or more completedyeare of credited service priorto his most recent layoff, t h ree percent (3%) of his total earnings (as defined In Subsection (B) of lids Section 4.)
(B)(1) In computing total earnings for the purpose ol calculating any Separation Payment, all earnings from die Company far the period of credited service shall be Included.
(2)	For whole or fractional years of credited service during which he was In employment priorto 1955, earnings for the year 1955, determined as aforesaid. increased proportionately to reflect a full year's earnings, if no earnings have been Included for one or more pay period In 1955, but [/ any employee had no earnlnga for 1955 (either actual or Included/n accordance wilh the preceding sentences), hlseamlngs for thensnt succeeding year tn which he had earnings, (neresssd
213
proportionately to reflect a lullyear's earnings, if no earnings have been included for one or more payperlods in such year, shall betaken to be the rate of his earnings for all such whole and fractional years of credited services prior to 1956.
(3)	Earnings loryears of credited service from 1955 until live years preceding hia last layoffehall be averaged proportionately on an annual basis for years during which the employee lost time from work by reason of being laid off due to a reduction ht the work (one or leave of absence for Union activity.
(4)	Eamlnga far the five years Immediately preceding the dale of his last layoff shal be his actual earnings.
Section 6. effect on Seniority and Benefits
An applicant, uponacceptenceof a Separation Payment, shalloaaaatobeanamployaaand shall havehtesanlorlty cancelled a8 of the date his application lorsuch Separation Payment waa received by the Company, and shall forfeit anyand ailpension, fnsuraneaorotherrightB under anypenaion planorothsrsmployaebenaflt plantinanced to whole or to part by the Company.
Section 6. Repayment
If a parson la again employed by the Company after he hasrecshrsdaSeparationPaymentnorepaynientby the person ofsuchSspamtion Paymentpald previously shall be required or allowed and no seniority cancelled previously shall be reinstated.
8aet(onr. Withholding Tax
The Company shall deduct from the amount of any Separation Payment an computed upon this Separation Payment Planany amount required to be withheld by the
Company by reason of any laworregulflllonfbr payment of taxes or otherwise of any Fflderai, Provincial o r Mo n Id-pal Government.
Section S. Overpayment
If the Company determinesafter Issuance of a Separation Payment that the Separation payment should not have been Issued or should have beenlssuedlnaJeaser amount, written notice thereof shall be mailed to the applicant and heahall retumthe amountofthe overpayments the Company,
Station d. Reports by the Company
The Company shall furnish to tha Union from time to time a listing showing the name* of tha parsons who, during the period covered by the report, accepted a Separation Paymentprovtded under this Separation Payment Plan, togetherwith both the individual gross and net amounts of such Separation Payments.
Station 10. Conflict
Inthaeventthatthsra should beany conflict between the provisions of this Plan and the provisions of the Supplemental Unemployment Benefits Plan, the provisions of this Planshall be paramountandahall govern.
Section 11. Duration end Termination
This Plan shall remain li offset tor the duration of the Supplemental UnemploymentBermflta Plannowlneffact between the parties and shall terminate whenever such Plan Is terminated.
215
h witneea whereof the parties hereto have executed the above at Welland, Ontario, (hi* 8th day of March, 1993.
LOCAL 485,	GENCORP
UNITEDRUBBER, CORK, CANADA INC., UNOLEUM ANO PLASTIC WELLAND, WORKERS OF AMERICA, ONTARIO AFL-CIO-CLC
F, Houle T. Gasperettl N. Labba 6. Martin P, Lampman C. fidme, International Representative
B. Baird 0. Whfddan
N.	Msllhot
O.	Molnar T. Grano
816
March 6.1893
The President, local Union 436.
The United Rubber, CnHUnoloum and Plastic Workers of America,
214 Kiig Street Welland, Ontario
Dear Sir:
This latter will confirm the undertaking given to you during rodent negotiations diet the Company will undertake to advise thoM former employees mentioned under Section £ (D) of the Separation Payment Plan of the requirement*to apply lora Separation Payment, Parmer employe** w« bo named by registered mail thirty (30)days prior to theexpfraNortof their seniority and a copy of each such notice w*lbe mailed to the Secretary of the Union,
Yours very truly,
B.O. Baird
Manager, Human Resources
217
Letter of Understanding
March 8,1993
President Local 455,
United Rubber, Cork, Linoleumand Plastic Workers of America,
214 King Street,
Welland, Ontario.
Dear Sir,
As discussed and agreed during the 1990 Negotla< tlons, the Automatic Short Work V\feek Benefit Fund will only be charged the amount of hours that are made available to work, as outlined in Definition Number eight (8) of the S.U.8. Agreement It is further agreed vtfien an employee works the overtimemake-uphourshe/she will not forfeit the Short Work Week Benefitandshallreceivepremiumra*" <orthe make-uphoura.
Yours very truly,
S.D. Baird
Manager, Human Resources.