between
GATES CANADA INC.
Brantford, Ontario
and the
UNITED RUBBER, CORK LINOLEUM, and PLASTIC WORKERS OF AMERICA
Local Union No. 733 AFL-CIO-CLC
Gates Canada Inc.
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Article I	Recognition			3
Article II	Discrimination			3
Article III	No Strike or Lockout			4
Article IV	Hours of Work			5
Article V	Wages			7
Article VI	Overtime			22
Article VII	Vacations			31
Article VIII	Grievance Procedure			34
Article IX	Seniority			41
Article X	Leave of Absence			58
Article XI	Miscellaneous			61
Article XII	Union Security 			65
Article XIII	Duration of Agreement			66
Supplemental Agreements,.
Letters of Understanding.
Summaries of Benefit Plans,
Calendars................
C.L.A. Index.............
Notes....................
.,68
.79
,113
122
126
131
-6 SBt
1
AGREEMENT
This AGREEMENT made and entered into as of the 28th day of April, 1994.
BETWEEN
GATES CANADA INC.
in Brantford, hereinafter referred to as "the Company",
AND
LOCAL NO. 733 OF THE UNITED RUBBER, CORK, LINOLEUMAND PLASTIC WORKERS OF AMERICA, AFL-CIO-CLC,
hereinafter referred to as "the Union".
2
ARTICLE I
Recognition
1.01	The Company recognizes the Union as the sole and exclusive bargaining agency for all the employees of the Company, save and except foremen, persons above the rank of foreman, uniformed security guards, Chief Engineer, office and sales staff.
1.02	All provisions between Gates Canada Inc. andU.R.W., Local 733 shall be consistent with all Ontario legislation and any applicable Federal legislation.
Allegations of any inconsistency under this provision may be pursued through the grievance procedure and/or arbitration.
ARTICLE II Discrimination
2.01	The Company and the Union agree that there shall be no discrimination or intimidation of any sort practised by the Company or by the Union by reason of any activity or lack of activity, past or future, of any employee with or in respect to membership or nonmembership or activity or lack of activity in the Union.
2,02	The Company agrees that it will not by any means, directly or indirectly, persuade or influence, or attempt to persuade or influence any
3
employee against membership or activity in the Union. The Union agrees that it will not solicit membership on Company time.
2,03	The Company and the Union agree to maintain the policy of no discrimination by reason of age, sex, race, colour, creed or national origin.
ARTICLE III
No Strike or Lockout
3.01	The Union agrees to the no-strike provisions of the Labour Relations Act of Ontario which says, "No employee bound by the Agreement shall strike", and "No employee shall do any act if he/she knows or ought to know that, as a probable and reasonable consequence of aie act, another person or persons will engage in an unlawful strike." Under the Act a "strike includes a cessation of work, a refusal to work or continue to work by employees in combination or in concert or in accordance with a common understanding, or a slowdown or other concerted activity on the part of employees designed to restrict or limit output."
3,02	The Company agrees that it will not take over the processing of materials from any other firm at which a strike is in progress, with the purpose of assisting that firm in breaking the strike. Employees under the bargaining unit, will not be required to cross the picket lines of other firms where duly sanctioned strikes are in progress.
4
3.03	The Company agrees there shall be no lockout so long as this Agreement continues to operate.
ARTICLE IV
Hours of Work
4,01 The normal weekly schedule of the factory is a five day, forty hour week, Monday to Friday inclusive, but this shall not be construed as a guarantee of hours of work per day or per week Each employee is assigned regular shift hours according to his/her type of work and number of shifts per day. Weekly starting times and shift starting times will be scheduled in accordance with production requirements. In the event production conditions require that a major change be made in starting times as set forth above, the Union Executive will be advised of the change and reason therefore. Normal shift schedules will be as follows: Material Preparation Department, Belt Department, Hose Department and Maintenance:
Day Shift:	7 a,m, to 3 p.m, ■ 20 minutespaid
lunch period.
Afternoon Shift:	3 p.m. to 11 p.m. • 20 minutespaid
lunch period.
Graveyard Shift: 11 p.m, to 7 a.m. -20 minutespaid
lunch period.
5
Warehouse:
Day Shift:
7	a.m. to 3 p.m andior
20 minutes paid lunch period.
8	a.m. to 4 p.m andior
20 minutes paid lunch period.
9	a.m. to 5 p.m. ■ 20 minutespaid lunch period.
Afternoon Shift 3 p.m. to 11 p.m. - 20 minutes paid
lunch period.
Lab:
Day Shift:
8 am. to 4 p.m, and/or
20 minutes paid lunch period.
7 a.m. to 3 p.m. - 20 minutespaid lunch period.
Afternoon Shift 3 p.m. to 11 p.m. 20 minutespaid
lunch period.
On operations where production conditions make it advisable, such as warehouse and Power Plant, other starting times may be used.
4.02	Two IO-minute rest periods will be allowedeach.shift with smoking privileges.
4.03	The following job operations will be allowed special clean up:
6
1.	Banbury crew.
2.	Car unloaders when unloading carbon black.
3.	Mechanics, Helpers, and Oilers when working on Banburys.
4.	Employees working in the Banbury area who are subjected to excessive carbon black by handling, or because of a mishap.
5.	Lead extruder crew.
Employees working on the above operations will be given twenty minutes in which to wash up, without loss of pay. Whether or not they complete their shift before such wash up will be left to the discretion of their foremen. If they are required to finish out their shifts, instead of leaving work twenty minutes early, they will receive twenty minutesextra pay for the shift just completed, but the extra twenty minutes will not count as time worked for overti me equalization. If the employee doesn’t clean up, he/she will not receive the clean up allowance.
ARTICLE V
Wages
5.01 Definitions
1. Satisfactory Effort
For the purpose of this agreement an employee will be considered to have put forth satisfactory effort by working at E.I.E. effort level or above
7
(limit being CAP) for all productive time available during his/her shift excluding standard allowances.
5.02	(a) The establishment of all new cost standards or changes in standards will be either through stop watch readings or from consistent achievement of production levels in cells or group areas. These cost standards will be expressed at 126% on the Company's effort rating scale.
(b)	All present and future cost standards will be calculated so that an operator working under machine or cycle restricted times can maintain CAP productivity.
(c)	In establishing cost standards, consistent standard data will be used and applied by the Company.
(d)	Interference times set by the Company by using manuals will be spot checked by stop watch readings before they are included in the cost standards for an operation. If interference times cannot otherwise be agreed upon they will be subject to a joint time study at the request of the Union.
5.03	Changes in cost standards on operations will be made when the job content changes are of a fairly significant magnitude. Smaller changes will be accumulated and periodically. Operations will be cleaned up with the net effect of the changes rolled into the cost standards.
In cells or group areas, cost standards will be reviewed and discussed by the groups and changed as required, normally twice yearly.
8
5.04	(INACTIVE)
5.05	(a) Any mathematical error in a cost standard will be changed as it is discovered.
coststandar 'ill be honoured. It is the Company's intention to have cost standards which reflect our true labour costs.
5.06	It is agreed that the Company shall base its cost standards on the full use of an employee's time, which consists of full productive time on the job less reasonable allowances.
5.07	The department steward concerned will be notified of new or changed cost standards.
5.08	In the event a dispute between the parties involving a cost standard is appealed to Step 3 of the Grievance Procedure, the Company upon receiving written requestfrom the Union, will permit a qualified URW International Time Study Engineer, approved by the International Union, to enter the plant for the purpose of making studies of the rate or standard in dispute in order that the Union may be in a position to properly present its case to the employer for further negotiations. The employer's industrial engineer shall be present at all times during such studies or observations by the Union Methods Engineer.
5.09	The Company will recognize a qualified Local Union Methods Engineer who is a member of Local 733, and whose function it will beta investigate disputed cost standards on behalf of the Union.
A request for a check on any
9
The Local Union Methods Engineer will represent the Union in discussions of timestudy matters with the Company Industrial Engineering Department, and may take timestudies of operations on which cost standards are subject to protest. It is understood that a Company Industrial Engineer shall be present at all times during such studies or observations by the Union Methods Engineer. The Company will pay the Union Methods Engineer when it removes him/her from his/her job to discuss time study matters or when it asks him/her to check-study a cost standard.
5.10	(a) The following rules shall govern the implementation of new and revised cost standards:
(1)	The supervisor of the department or the Industrial Engineer shall present a copy of the proposed procedure to the employees and the Union Methods Engineer and/or his/her designee so that they may review how the Company wants the job performed. The purpose of this review is to allow the employees the opportunity to study the procedure, become familiar with it, and to suggest changes. The operator shall have 16 hours to work on the proposed procedure before a time study is commenced. This 16 hour break-inperiod may be increased or decreased by mutual agreement with the employee(s) involved. The operatorwill initial and date the procedure which will indicate his/her understanding of it. All employees are required to adhere to the standard operating procedure for the purpose of determining a new or revised cost standard.
(2)	It is understood that new or revised cost standards set through time studies shall be
10
based on time studies taken under normal ■conditions, and not under any specially created circumstances.
(3)	Following the time study and after the study has been broken down, a pre-posting discussion will be held among the Union Methods Engineer and/or his/her designee, the employee(s) who was studied, the Industrial Engineers involved, and other appropriate Company and/or Union representatives to explain the result of the study and the proposed cost standard. If at this time, any questions of quality are raised, they will be resolved. The Union Methods Engineer shall be furnished copies of spread sheets and standard data sheets.
5,11	It will be the practice for the Company Industrial Engineer to contact the Steward or Union Methods Engineer in the department, giving him/her a brief outline of what study is to be made in the department.
5.12	A classified worker temporarily transferred at the request of the Company while his/her regularwork is availablewill be paid CAP of his/her classification or CAP of the job transferred to whichever is the higher.
An unclassified employee so transferred will be paid his/her regular rate or the rate of the job transferred to, whichever is the higher.
An employee requested to perform experimental work will be paid CAP.
The allowances under this clause will apply when individual operators or crews are involved in training employees who are other than their own replacements. Training of an employee’s own replacement is covered under Section 5,23.
11
All the above allowances will be paid only if the employee makes satisfactory effort on the temporary job.
5.13	Where an employee is advised by the supervisor or foreman, after having worked four (4) hours or more on his/her regular shift, that there is no further work available on his/her operation or group of operations for the balance of the shift, the employee may elect to go home or accept another job assignment at the prevailing rate of the job assigned for the four (4) hours or less in the remainder of the shift.
5.14	A classified operator will be paid for the following conditions occurring within his/her shift when such a condition exists for longer than .1 hour.
CAP will be paid for the following conditions:
(a)	Mechanical downtime (including preventive maintenance).
(b)	While awaiting stock, liners, etc.
(c)	While working with malfunctioning equipment.
(d)	While working with defective stock
(e)	While following a prescribed nonstandard procedure,
All of the above allowances will be paid only if the employee makes satisfactory effort on the job.
5.15	If an employee reports for work at his/her regular scheduled time and there is not four hours’ work available for him/her on his/her regular job, or if he/she works less than four hours on his/her regular job, he/she will be given either four hours' work at some other job at the rate of the job
12
assigned, or his/her rate, whichever is higher, or four hours' pay at his/her unclassified rate or his/her rate if a classified worker, unless he/she has received two hours' prior notification not to report to work. If the Company elects to give the employee four hours' pay as aforesaid, the employee will be permitted to leave the plant at once. This report-in pay provision does not apply if there is no work because of power failure, breakage of major equip-ment(Banbury unit, Calender unit), catastrophe, violation of 3,01, or where the employee failed to keep his/her correct telephone number on file with his/her supervisor, or cannot be reached by telephone. Report in pay will be calculated at the applicable rate of pay for the day i nvolved.
5,16	Shift premium will be paid as follows:
For all hours worked on the scheduled swing
shift
-	$.34 per hour.
For all hours worked on the scheduled graveyard shift
-	$.37 per hour.
In calculating overtime payment, the shift premium will not be included.
5.17	All employees shall be paid weekly and the employees working on the night shift will receive theirwageson payday beforeleavingthe plant.
“In the event a day shift employee is released from work as a result of lack of production on a normal pay day, and he/she requests that he/she be paid before leavingthe plant, every reasonable effort will be made to comply with this request. The employee shall not be entitled to pay for the time spent waiting on his/her cheque."
13
5.18	If an employee is injured in the factory, or on Company property, if the injury would be covered under the Workers' Compensation Act, and as a result of such injury loses time from the shift on which it occurred, he/she will be paid for such lost time, provided:
(a)	He/she reports such injury to his/her supervisor or the plant nurse, providing a plant nurse is employed, as soon as possible after its occurrence;
and
(b)	He/she immediately seeks medical attention for such injury;
and
(c)	He/she is excused for the balance of the shift by his/her supervisor, a doctor of medicine, or a registered nurse on duty in the emergency room of a Brantford hospital.
(d)	If the incident occurs on a regular shift, payment will be at straight time. If on an
overtime assignment, payment will be at
the applicable overtime rate.
If the employee is unable to return to the Company premises before the end of the shift he/she will also receive payment for the time between the end of the shift and the time of return. Such payment will be at straight time if the accident occurs on a regular shift and at the applicable overtime rate if it occurs on an overtime shift.
An exception to this will occur when the accident happens on a regular shift and the employee is already scheduled to work overtime at the end of the shift. In such cases, the employee will receive payment
14
at the applicable overtime rate following the end of his/her regular shift until the time of return to Company premises.
If the accident occurs on an overtime shift immediately preceding a regularly scheduled shift the employee will receive payment at the overtime rate for the balance of the overtime shift followed by payment at straight time rate until the time of return to Company premises.
In the event that an employee is sent directly home without returning to the plant, payment will cease at the end of the shift on which the injury was incurred, whether straight time or overtime.
In the event that an employee is confined to hospital, payment will cease at the end of the period he/she was scheduled to work, whether straight time or overtime. For the purpose of this paragraph “confined to hospital” shall mean that the employee is assigned a hospital bed and remains in hospital for a minimum of eight (8) consecutive hours thereafter.
All of the above terms and conditions apply only to the date on which the injury is actually incurred and only if covered under Worker's Compensation.
Payment for time lost under the circumstances describedabove will be made at CAP in the case of a classified worker or at his/her hourly rate in the case of an unclassified worker.
5,19	Standard operational procedures provided by the Industrial Engineering Department will be made available in each Department. All employees are required to adhere to the standard operational procedures.
15
5.20	New or modified equipment (taken out of production), or a new product, will be released for regular production on a form and a copy of the release will be given to the Local Union Methods Engineer.
5.21	An employee will be paid for time lost on his/her operation if he/she is called away from same by the employer, In the case of a qualified classified worker such payment will be made at CAP or at attained progression rate for a unclassified worker or a nonqualified Classified worker.
Up to a maximum of one and one-half (1 112) hours of pay at straight time will be paid for time spent by employees taking tests required by the Company outside regular working hours. Payment will be made as set forth previously in this clause.
5.22	Changes in established cost standards from standard data will be made within seven (7) working days following a change in job content, unless otherwise mutually agreed. It is understood that where an employee increases his/her efficiency through his/her own skill and effort, it shall not be interpreted as being a change in job content, provided he/she follows the standard operational procedure and maintains quality standards.
5.23	(a) An inexperienced employee working in an experienced classified crew operation will be paid his/her training rate.
(b)	An experienced crew working with an inexperienced crew member will be paid their CAP.
16
(c)	An experienced classified employee assigned to train an inexperienced employee will be paid his/her CAP.
(d)	An experienced employee required by the company to be trained on unfamiliar methods or equipment within his/her classification will be paid cAp during such training periods.
(e)	The training guarantee rate for a new unclassified employee in progressionwill be hisher attained progression rate. Such guarantee for an employee who has completed his/her progression will be the job rate of the operation on which he/she is training. On non cellular classified operations, the employee will be paid his or herjob rate while under direct training and CAP once he or she is removed from direct training.
On cellular classified operations with long training jobs, the employee will be paid 105% of his or her E.I.E. for the specified training period and then be considered experienced.
5.24	Employees' timecards shall be turned in daily at the end of the shift. If a foreman believes that a timecard has been made out incorrectly, the timecard will be returned to the employee. The foreman, employee and shift steward will make a reasonable effort to settle any differences. If no satisfactory determination of the point is made by the end of the employee’s next shift the timecard shall be cleared through the Payroll Department on the basis of the foreman's interpretation of correctness. If the point is still in dispute the employee will make out a duplicate card and it may be processed through the regular grievance procedure,
5.25	A new employee will progress from the starling rate to the job rate of hisher classification in
17
increments of ten cents ($.10) per hour per week if employed in an unclassified job. The starting rate for classified jobs is the job rate of the classification.
5.26	In order to be eligible for payment under the guarantee provisions of this Agreement, an employee must be qualified in the classification(s) where such guarantees may be claimed except where covered elsewhere in this Agreement.
(a)	In order to establish his/her qualifications for payment in a given classified operation, an employee must have completed his or her direct training period and, in the case of cellular classifications, the specified training period.
(b)	An employee who has established (or reestablished) and has continued to maintain his/her qualifications for payment in a given classification will be said to have qualified for that classification and will carry that qualification for payment until such time as he/she has not performed satisfactorily in that classification for a period of six months.
(c)	An employee(s) assigned to a classified job (hired, bid, or displaced) in which he/she has had prior satisfactory service within the six (6) month period immediately prior to his/her reassignment to this classification will be considered an experienced employee(s) for purposes of guarantee payments under Clause 5.14 of this agreement.
5.27	Interim Wages Increases (in April 1980-April 1983 Contract)
18
1. The amount of interim increase shall be calculated and recalculated as provided below on the basis of the Consumer Price Index published by Statistics Canada (1971=100) and hereinafter referred to as the C.P.I.
First Year of Agreement
(a)	"The base for calculation" - the average C.P.I. for the months of February 1980, March 1980 andApril 1980.
(b)	The first adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay period commencing July 27,
1980.	Itwill reflectone cent($.01) per hourfor each full .4 points that the average C.P.I. for the months of April 1980, May 1980 and June 1980 exceeds the base for calculation.
(c)	A second adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay period commencing on October 26, 1980. Itwill reflect one cent ($.01) per hourfor each full .4 points that the average C.P.I. for the months of July 1980, August 1980 and September 1980 exceeds the base for calculation.
(d)	A third adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay period commencing January 25,
1981.	Itwill reflectone cent($,01) perhourfor each full .4 points that the average C.P.I, for the months of October 1980, November 1980 and December 1980 exceeds the base for calculation.
(e)	A fourth adjustmentwill be calculated and paid as of the pay period commencing April 26, 1981. Itwill reflectone cent ($.01) perhourfor each full .4 points that the averageC.P.I. for the months of January 1981, February 1981 and March 1981 exceeds the base for calculation.
3,	SecondYear of Agreement
(a)	"The base for calculation" - the average C.P.I. for the months of February 1981, March 1981 andApril 1981.
19
(b)	The first adjustmentwill be calculated and paid as of the pay period commencing July 26,
1981.	Itwill reflectonecent($.01) perhourfor each full .4 points that the average C.P.I, for the months of April 1981, May 1981 and June 1981 exceeds the base for calculation.
(c)	A second adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay period commencing October 25, 1981. Itwill reflect one cent ($.01) per hour for each full .4 points that the average C.P.I. for the months of July 1981, August 1981 and September 1981 exceeds the base for calculation.
(d)	A third adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay period commencing January 31,
1982.	Itwill reflectone cent($.01) perhourfor each full .4 points that the average C.P.I. for the months of October 1981, November 1981 and December 1981 exceeds the base for calculation.
(e)	A fourth adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay period commencing April 25, 1982. Itwill reflect one cent($.01) perhourfor each full .4 points that the average C.P.I. for the months of January 1982, February 1982 and March 1982 exceeds the base for calculation.
4.	Third Year of Agreement
(a)	'The base for calculation" - the average C.P.I, for the months of February 1982, March 1982 and April 1982.
(b)	The first adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay period commencing July 25, 1982. It will reflect one cent ($.01) per hour for each full .4 points that the average C.P.I. for the months of April 1982, May 1982 and June 1982 exceedsthe base for calculation.
(c)	A second adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay period commencing October
20
31, 1982. It will reflect one cent ($.01) per hour for each full .4 points that the average C.P.I. for the months of July 1982, August 1982 and September 1982 exceeds the base for calculation.
(d)	A third adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay period commencing January 30,
1983.	It will reflectone cent($.01) perhourfor each full ,4 points that the average C.P.I, for the months of October 1982, November 1982 and December 1982 exceeds the base for calculation.
5.	The interim increase will be considered as earnings but will be boxed separately from other wage payments on the employee's time card.
6.	In the event Statistics Canada does not issue the appropriate Consumer Price Index on or before the date on which an adjustment is to be calculated, any adjustment required will be made at the beginning of the first pay period following receipt of the index.
7.	No adjustments, retroactive or otherwise, shall be made due to any revision which may later be made in any published Consumer Price Index by Statistics Canada.
8.	Continuation of the interim adjustments is dependent upon the availability of the official Statistics Canada Consumer's Price Index calculated on the same basis and in the same form as that pub-lishedfor April 1980.
9.	Each adjustment specified in the Interim Wage Increase Formula will replace the previous adjustment, if any, in its entirety except the fourth adjustment in the first year of the agreement will be carried over throughout the second and third year of the Agreement and the fourth adjustment in the second year of the Agreement will be carried over throughout the third year of the Agreement.
10.	All of the above provisions in Article 5.27 are not applicable during the life of this Agreement.
21
5.28	Classification and wage rates are attached hereto as Schedule "A" and form part of this Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Overtime
6.01	Time worked outside of an employee’s regular eight hourshift in any 24 hour period from the timehe/she is requiredto start work will be paid for at the rate of time and one-half. Time and one-half will be paid for Saturday work.
6.02	Overtime does not include:
(a)	Time worked by employees substitut-ingfor another at their own request,
(b)	A change of an employee’s working hours at his/her own request in writing.
(c)	In no case will overtime be pyramided.
6,03	Employees, after two weeks of service, shall be paid an amount equal to one standard shift for each of the following eleven holidays:
New Year's Day Good Friday Victoria Day Canada Day Civic Holiday
22
Labour Day Thanksgiving Day Children’s ChristmasParty Christmas Day
Two Floaters to be designated for each year.
The actual dates on which the foregoing holidays will be observed are set out in Supplemental Agreement No. 2.
6.04	Ifa holiday falls on Sunday, the next following work day shall be observed as a holiday. If a holiday falls on a Saturday, the Company may, at its option in each such case, elect to celebrate the holiday on the Saturday on which it falls or the Friday immediately preceding, or the Monday next following such Saturday. If a holiday falls within a period when an employee is on vacation, he/she will have the choice of (1) receiving holiday pay without taking the holiday, or (2) taking the holiday on eitherhis/her last shift prior to his/her vacation or the first shift after his/her vacation. Flowever, this choice must be declared to his/her supervisor at least two full calendar weeks priorto the date on which such vacation is scheduled to begin. In departments where a seven-day schedule is required and/or in the maintenance departments, the minimum of employees necessary to keep the factory in operating condition shall work on the holiday. From time to time, emergencies may arise which will make it necessary for certain employees to work on a holiday in order that other employees will not suffer lost time.
When an employee works on a holiday, he/she will be paid double his/her regular rate for the hours actually worked plus holiday pay, if he/she qualifies under the provisionsof this Article.
Employees in classified classifications will be paid holiday pay based on his/her E.I.E, Employees in unclassified classifications will be paid holiday pay based on his/her current hourly rate. Employees in
23
split job classification where the regularjob consists of part time classified and part time unclassified operations, will be paid daily holiday pay based on the E.I.E. of the classified part of classification. Only the employee actually at work for at least seven (7) hours on his/her last regular scheduled shift before, and at least seven (7) hours on his/her first scheduled shift following the holiday, shall receive holiday pay, except where the employee is on vacation, or is absent due to death in the immediate family as per Clause 10.02, personal injury, proven unavoidable illness, jury duty, or excused by supervision.
An employee shall receive Holiday pay while off work due to a Plant accident. His/her holiday pay will be based on classified or unclassified classification under whichever classification the employee is listed at time of the Plant accident.
6.05	Double time shall be paid for all authorized work performed on Sunday (12 midnight Saturday night to 12 midnight Sunday night), except the Graveyard and Afternoon shifts will be paid double time as follows: Sunday for a Graveyard Shift employee will start Saturday night at the same time his/her regular Graveyard Shift starts during the week. Sunday for an Afternoon Shift employee will end Sunday night at the same time his/her regular Afternoon Shift endsduring the week
6,06	If an employee is called into the plantfor work during hours outside his/her regularly scheduled shift, and his/her response to such call resultsin his/her having to make an unscheduled additional trip to the plant, he/she shall receive a minimum of three hours of pay as a result of such trip. The minimum rate of pay to which the employee may be entitled underthis provision will be his/her regularhourly rate. Hours paid for under this clause will be subject
24
to the premium payment provisions found elsewhere in Article VI of this Agreement. Upon resolutionof the emergency, the employee will be released from work.
This clause does not apply when an employee comes to work early and works into his/her regular shift.
6,07	Employeeswho work overtime shall not be requiredto take time off to offset such overtime.
6.08
(a)	Employees will be notified forty hours in advance if required by the Company to work overtime, except in emergencies.
(b)	In the Maintenance Department the weekend work schedule will be posted no later than 1:00 p.m, on Thursday of the week involved. This schedule will cover the requirements which can be foreseen prior to such Thursday; requirements which arise subsequent to the determination of the aforementioned schedule will be treated as emergencies underthe provisionsof paragraph
(a) of this clause 6.08.
6,09	Applicable guarantees will be paid during time worked on Saturday and Sunday.
6.10	(a)
1.	The purpose of this procedure is to provide, insofar as is reasonably possible, a balance of opportunities for overtime among individuals within any given classification.
25
2.	Overtime shall be offered first to the required number of individuals who hold a classification where overtime is required and who are capable of performing the work to be done starting with the employee who has the least amount of hours credited to his/her record and for whom the necessary equipmentis available.
3.	11a sufficient number of employeeswith-in the classification are not available under No. 2 above then the overtime may be offered to any individual outside of the classification at the Company's discretion.
4.	Records of overtime offered, accepted, refused and actually worked will be kept in each department and will be made available to employees on request. Hours paid under the call-in pay provision of the C.L.A. which exceed hours actually worked will be recorded for balancing purposes.
5.	If an individual is offered work and accepts, the amount of such overtime actually worked will be recorded for balancing purposes. Ifhe/she is absent for all or part of the assignment he/she has previously accepted, the full amount of overtime offered will be recorded for balancing purposes.
6.	If an individual is offered overtimework and refuses, the amount offered or that actually worked by another employee accepting the same assignment, whichever is greater, will be recorded for balancing purposes.
7.	Overtime worked by an individual outside of his/her classification in accordance with No. 3 above will not be
26
shown on his/her record for balancing purposes within his/her classification. Overtime worked by an individual outside of his/her classification subsequent to reporting for duties within his/her classification will be shown on his/her record for balancing purposes within his/her classification. Overtimeworked by an individual within his/her classification subsequent to reporting for duties outside his/her classification will not be shown on his/her record for balancing purposes within his/her classification.
8.	Time paid for such purposes as attending meetings, taking tests, washup, weekend startups, etc., will not be shown on an employee's record for balancing purposes.
9.	There will be no obligation on the Company to balance overtime hours at different premium rates, ie. whether any given overtime assignment is at time and one half or double time will be immaterial.
10.	When an employee enters a classification and qualifies under No. 2 above he/she will be assigned a cumulative record equal to the average for all other persons in that classification.
11.	Employees who do to wish to be offered overtime may sign a form to this effect. This form will remain in force until revoked in writing and will waive his or her right to be offered available overtime during the time it is in force. If revoked, the employee shall then be treated as if he/she was entering the classification under No. 10 above.
12.	In crew situations where one or more
27
members refuse overtime offered and replacement(s) cannot be found the records of all members of the crew will be handled as in No. 6 above.
13.	Classifications in the Skilled Trades, Technical Division and Apprentices will be considered as separate classifications and will be balanced within their facility only, ie. there will be no obligation on the Company to offer overtime at one facility to individuals normally assigned to another facility. Similarly, movement from one facility to another in the same classification will be considered as entering a classification under No. 10 above.
14.	Eligibility for overtime during periods of absence will be governed by the following;
a)	Sickness or Iniurv
Eligibility to be offered overtime will not become effective until the employee has actually returned to active duty.
b)	Jury Duty
Eligibility will be effective on weekends and on any week day that the employee actually reports to work on his/her regu-larshift
c)	Bereavement Leave
An employee will not be eligible for overtime during the period covered by the three or fewer working days that the leave is in effect. For example, a bereavement leave beginning on a Thursday and continuing through Monday would exempt an employee from eligibility through that full period, including the weekend.
d)	Vacation. Personal Leave of Absence or Union Le ve of Ab ience
An employee will not be eligible for
28
overtime during his/her entire vacation or leave period. The vacation or leave period will be deemed to start at the conclusion of his/her last shift of work and continue to the end of the last scheduled shift of absence. If this last shift occurs on a Friday, then eligibility will be restored as of 11:00 p.m. on the Friday.
e) Disciplinary Suspension
An employee will not be eligible for overtime during any period of disciplinary suspension without pay unless otherwise determined through the grievance procedure.
15.	Any overtime opportunities which occur during an employee's absence for any of the reasons outlined in No. 14 above will be recorded for balancing purposes in accordance with No. $ above. The exception to this will be during Leaves of Absence for Union Business. Overtime opportunities occurring during such leaves will not be recorded as refused.
6:10 (b) If an employee is not offered overtime he/she was entitled to, the following procedure will be used.
1. For a violation to have occurred the following conditions must exist:
(i)	There must be a difference of more than eight (8) accumulated overtime hours between the employee with the fewer hours and the employee who worked the overtime hours.
(ii)	The difference in hours referred to in (i) above will be calculated based on the accumulated hours held by each of
29
the two employees before the overtime is actually worked and recorded.
2.	Violations as defined under No. 1 above will require making the affected individual whole.
3.	Overtime hours paid for under No. 2 above will be added to the accumulated overtime hours of the individual receiving payment.
4.	On all shifts where daily overtime due to absenteeism may be required at the beginning of the following shift it will first be offered to employees within the classification on the shift then at work; if not filled it may then be offered to other employees on the shift then at work outside the classification; if not filled it may be offered to employeesin the classification not at work.
(b)	All recorded overtime hours shall be reduced to zero on January 1st, of each year.
(c)	Designated Company and Union representatives shall meet monthly to review overtime records and make adjustments as necessary. Meetings may be held more or less frequently as necessary.
30
ARTICLE VII
Vacations
7.01	All employees who prior to December 31st of the current year have been continuously employed for the following periods, receive vacation with pay as follows:
(1)	Employees with less than one year service must complete one year before they are entitled to time off for a vacation.
(2)	One year but less than five year's service -two weeks of vacation with pay at 4% of total earnings for the previous calendar year.
(3)	Five years but less than fifteen year's service - three weeks vacation with pay at 6% of total earnings for the previous calendar year.
(4)	Fifteen years but less than twenty years service - four weeks vacation with pay at 8% of total earnings for the previouscalen-dar year.
(5)	Twenty years or more of service - five weeks vacation with pay at 10% of total earnings for the previous calendar year.
(6)	Twenty-Five years or more of service - six weeks vacation with pay at 12% of total earnings for the previous calendar year.
Employees hired after May 1, 1991 will follow the same vacation schedule as above except they will have a maximum of four(4) weeks entitlement. This shall apply during the term of this agreement.
31
7.02	Total earnings include regular and overtime pay, vacation and holiday pay, Weekly Indemnity payments made in the previous year, Ontario Health Insurance Plan premiums which are paid by the Company on behalf of the employee, short work week benefits paid under the Supplemental Unemployment Benefits Plan, Workers' Compensation Payments for lost time, and bonusesforthe twelve month period priorto January of the current year. In the vacation year of 1993 and thereafter, Worker's Compensation Payments for lost time received during the twelve (12) month period ending on October 31st of the preceding year will be used in calculating that portion of total earnings.
The value of Ontario Health Insurance premiums will be the same as those that were in effect during December 1989, Beginning in January 1991, an employee will be credited on a monthly basis with the applicable single or family premium rate for the purpose of vacation pay calculation at year end. The employee’s status will be determined each month by his/her status then in effect under the extended health care program.
7.03	An employee whose employment with the Company is severed, shall receive any vacation pay then due him/her under the provisions of sections 7.01 and 7.02, and in addition shall receive vacation pay based on the appropriate percentage according to his/her service (as provided in section 7.01) of his/her total earnings (as defined in section
7.02	but applied to the current year only) received in the year in which his/her employment is severed.
An employee whose employment with the Company is severed and who has less than one year of service at the time of such severance, will be paid vacation pay in accordance with the Employment Standards Act of the Provinceof Ontario.
32
7.04	Vacation will be taken at any time during the calendar year, at such times as is most convenient to the Company, but every reasonable effort shall be made to schedule vacationsat times suitable to the employees.
In any event employees who are entitled to two or more weeks of vacation will be given the opportunity of taking two of these weeks together.
A vacation shutdown may be scheduled between July 1 stand August 31st.
Employees off on weekly indemnity or Workers’ Compensation during previously scheduled vacation time will beallowedto submit a requestfor alternative time off under an unpaid leave of absence in accordance with the provisions of the existing guidelines for vacation scheduling.
7,05	When an employee of one or more years seniority, has been unable to work for a portion of the precedingvacation year, because of verified sickness or injury, and for that reason only, his/her vacation pay, calculated in accordance with Section 7.01, is less than $400.00 per week, the vacation pay to which he/she is entitled will be increased to the above minimum, provided he/she has worked a minimum of three months in the vacation year.
7,06	Vacation payments will be made as vacations are taken, and in amounts corresponding to the amount of vacation being taken at a given time.
33
ARTICLE VIII
Grievance Procedure
8.01 The Union Bargaining Committee shall consist of five members. The composition of said committee shall be as follows:
The President and Vice-president of the Local Union and three Divisional Chairpersons.
8.02
(a)	For the purpose of adjusting grievances, the Bargaining Unit shall consist of three divisions one of which encompasses all Bargaining Unit employees at the Iroquois Street facility, (exclusive of Skilled Trades), a second encompassing all Bargaining Unit employees at the Henry Street facility exclusive of Skilled Trades, and a third which consists of the Skilled Trades. Each such division will have a Divisional Chairperson designated by the Union.
(b)	The Union shall be permitted to appoint Stewards to a maximum number of one (1) for each twenty (20) employees in the Bargaining Unit. Adjustments to the number of Stewards may be made once each three (3) months based on the number of employees appearing on the most recent seniority list. The Union must provide the Company with a complete list of appointed Stewards detailing the area(s) each is responsible to representand must keep the list up to date at all times.
34
8.03	Any employee with a grievance shall discuss it with his/her supervisor and give the supervisor twenty-four (24) hours, (the 24 hours shall be extended to a maximum of 48 hours if requested by the supervisor), in which to adjust or reject the grievance. Ifthe employee is not satisfied with the answer or he/she wishes to take the grievance through the grievance procedure, it shall be dealt with as follows:
Step 1 - The employee’s Steward or in his/her absence an alternate Stewardwill first discuss the matter with the employee’s supervisor and will give the supervisor 48 hours in which to adjust or reject the grievance. If the Steward feels that the employee’s presence is necessary to the resolution of the grievance, the employee may be present at this meeting.
Step 2 - Failing settlement at Step 1 then within five (5) working days from the Step 1 answer the grievance shall be reduced to writing, signed by the employee and Steward, dated and presented by the Divisional Chairperson to the employee's Department Manager. The written grievance should state the relief desired in settlement of the grievance. (it is understoodthat the granting by the Company of the relief requested in the grievance, shall resolve the grievance.)
The Department Manager shall hold a meeting within five (5) working days of receiving the grievance, with the Divisional Chairperson, Steward and Supervisor, where the grievance will be reviewed.
Within two (2) working days of such meeting, the Department Manager will provide the Divisional Chairperson with a written answer to the grievance.
35
Step 3 • Failing settlement at Step 2, the grievance shall be submitted by the Union President or his/her designee within five (5) working days of the Step 2 answer to the Human Resources Manager or his/her designee. The grievance shall be processed to the next regular meeting of the Union-Management Committee. Such Committee shall meet on the 1st and 3rd Wednesdays of each month from 1:00 p.m. to 3:00 p.m, and shall be composed of the Union President, Vice-President, the appropriate Divisional Chairperson and the Human Resources Manager.
The Human Resources Manager shall render a written decision within five (5) working days after the meeting.
It is understood that at Step 3, the Company may bring in persons necessary to assist in settlement of the grievance and the Union may bring in appropriate Local and International Union officials who are necessary to settle the grievance. It is further understood that the time limits referred to herein exclude Saturday, Sunday and holidays. Extension of these time limits may be granted upon written request by either party.
Step 4 - Either party may, within thirty (30) full working days of the date of the Company's Step 3 answer, request that any difference as hereinbefore provided be submitted to arbitration, it shall make such request in writing addressed to the other party to this Agreement, and at the same time nominate an arbitrator. Within ten full working days thereafter the other party shall nominate an arbitrator and notify the other party. The Company and the Union shall attempt to select by agreement a chairperson of the arbitration board. If they are unable to
36
agree on such a chairperson within a further period of three working days they will draw a name from the agreed upon list of arbitrators. The list will be kept current by an annual review by the parties.
The parties may, by mutual agreement on a case by case basis, use a single arbitrator in lieu of the three person board provided herein.
8.04	No person shall be appointed as an arbitrator who has been involved in an attemptto negotiate or settle the grievance.
8.05	The arbitration board or single arbitrator shall not have jurisdiction to amend or add to any of the provisions of this Agreement, or to substitute any new provisions in lieu thereof, nor to give any decision inconsistent with the terms and provisions of this Agreement. No matter may be submittedto arbitration which has not been properly carried through all previous steps of the Grievance Procedure.
8.06	The proceedings of the arbitration board or single arbitrator will be expedited by the parties hereto, and the decision of the majority of such board or of the single arbitrator will be final and binding upon the parties thereto.
8,07	Each of the parties hereto will bear the expenses of the arbitrator appointed by it and the parties will jointly bear the expenses of the chairman of the arbitration board.
8.08	Any and all time limits under this agreement may be extended by mutual agreement of the parties in writing.
37
8,09	In disciplinary cases, either party has the right to request the presence of the aggrieved employee at Step 3 of the Grievance Procedure.
8.10	If a senior employee is discharged or suspended and he/she feels that he/she has been unjustly dealt with, he/she shall within five working days notify the Company and the Union in writing. It shall then constitute a grievance and shall be dealt with under the Grievance Procedure, starting at Step 3. If, subsequently, it is settled in favour of the employee, he/she shall be reinstated in his/her former position and shall be compensated for all time lost less pay for any penalty time decided upon, and less any pay he/she has received during the time he/she was off. Employeesdischarged or suspended shall have the privilege of discussing their position with the Steward before leaving the plant. In the event that an employee is "suspended pending investigation" the Company will waive the five (5) working day time limit for filing a grievance specified above.
The above time limit will be deemed to start at the point in time that the final decision regarding formal suspension or discharge is rendered and communicated to the employee.
8.11 A Steward, or Union Methods Engineer, or the Local President, ora member of the bargaining committee, or if necessary, any combination of two of these individuals will be provided an opportunity to investigate a grievance within the last half hour of his/her shift on which a request to do so is made to his/her supervisor. However, if a Steward cannot be excused without an undue loss of production an alternate Steward will be excused for such purpose.
38
If a grievance involves health and safety the Union Safety Representative may also be excused along with the Steward. If a grievance involves cost standards the Local Union Methods Engineer may participate in the investigation along with the Steward. Union representatives will be paid by the Union for time spent away from work under this provision.
8.12	Once a grievance has been submitted to the Bargaining Committee, it shall be settled only through the Bargaining Committee or with the consent and approval of the Committee.
8.13	No grievance, verbal or written, withdrawn or dropped by the Union or granted by the Company priorto Step 3 of the Grievance Procedure will have any precedent value. A grievance may be settled by the Company and the Union during Step 3 of the Grievance Procedure, or at any time after Step 3 but priorto arbitration, with no precedent value, provided both the Company and the Union agree in writing.
8.14	Notwithstanding the foregoing, grievances protesting new or revised cost standards will be filed at Step 3 of the grievance procedure and will be processed in the following manner:
(a)	The grievance will be assigned to the Local Union Methods Engineer and the Company Industrial Engineering Department and a meeting will be held within ten (10) working days from the date the grievance is filed for a thorough review of the problem. During this review, either party upon request will be granted a joint Company-Union time study.
39
zb) If the grievance is not resolved in the above manner, the Union may submit the dispute to a review by the Company Industrial Engineering Department and a full time URW International Time Study Engineer. During this review, upon request, either party will be granted a joint Company/Union time study.
(C) At any stage during this procedure, ifthe Local Union Methods Engineer or Internationa) Time Study Engineer and the Company Industrial Engineer agree in writing that the other's rate is correct, then the matter will be settled on that basis.
(d) If the matter is not resolved in the manner described above, either party may request that the dispute be submitted to arbitration. Within twenty (20) working days of such request, the parties shall attempt to select by agreement an arbitrator to hear the matter. If they are unable to agree upon an arbitrator, then within ten (10) working days thereafter each party shall select a nominee for the purpose of naming an arbitrator to hear the dispute. If they are unable to agree upon an arbitrator they must then request the Minister of Labour for the Province of Ontario to appoint an arbitrator. The arbitrator must be a qualified Industrial Engineer if one is available. No person shall be appointed as an arbitrator who is or who has served in the employment of Gates Rubber Company or the United Rubber Workers, or who has been involved in an attempt to negotiate or settle the grievance. The Arbitrator will hear evidence submitted by the parties and may conduct such further investigation as he/she may feel necessary for resolution of the dispute. Upon the completion of the
40
hearing and his/her investigation, the Arbitrator will issue an award which affirms the position of the Company or the position of the Union. The Arbitrator shall not be empowered to make any award other than to affirm, in its entirety, the final position of the Company or the Union. The award of the Arbitrator shall be final and binding upon both parties.
(e) In the event the Local Union does not have a qualified Local Union Methods Engineer available, an International Time Study Engineer may assist with a grievance filed under this Section 8.14, as outlined in sub-section 5.08 (a).
8.15	It is understood that a grievance arising directly between the Company and Union will be considered a policy grievance and may be filed either by the Union President, or his/her designee, on behalf of the Union or by the Human Resources Manager, or his/her designee on behalf of the Company and will be processed beginning at the third step of the grievance procedure.
ARTICLE IX
Seniority
9.01	New employees will be considered probationary until they have been employed for three months. Seniority shall then be credited as of the
41
date of first entry into the service of the Company. At the Company’s discretion, the employee’s probationary period may be extended for a one (1) month period, subject to notificationto the Union.
An employee's probationary period may be extended by the amount of time spent on any modified work assignment(s) recommended by a physician and/or by the entire length of any period of absence when the period of absence exceeds five (5) consecutive working days. The Union President will be notified in writing when an employee’s probationary period is being extended and the &te to which the extension will apply.
(a)	An employee who has been completed his/her probationary period will be known as a senior employee.
9,02	Seniority lists shall be posted in each Department of the plant. The Union shall be furnished with a copy of the Seniority list every three months.
9.03
(a) When a vacancy occurs, it shall be posted in the Plant where it exists for a period of two working days. Only senior employees within such Plant will be eligible to bid on this vacancy and the job will be awarded to the most senior bidder who is capable of doing the job within a reasonable training period. An employee on lightduty because of a temporary medical restriction who signs a job posting must be medically capable of beginning training within ten (10) calendar days of accepting the bid in order to be the successful bidder. If additional medical information is required by the Company this time limit will be extended accordingly if the information is not
42
received back within the ten (10) day time limit. Notwithstanding the foregoing, vacancies in the Warehouse, Laboratory, SkilledTrades Division and in the Transport Driver classification will be posted in all Plants with the understanding that the qualification requirements contained in the appropriate Supplemental Agreements must apply. Forthe purpose of this clause, the Warehouse shall be deemed to be a part of the Plant containing the Belt and Millroom Departments. Within forty-eight (48) hours of the removal of the bid, the employees who signed the bid will be contacted regarding acceptance or rejection of the job. Contact will not be further required afterthejob has been awarded.
(b)	When an employee is advised that ha/she is entitled to a job under this provision, he/she must immediately accept or reject the job, and his/her failure to accept or reject the job immediately shall be considered as a rejection of the job. (At any time prior to the bid being removed from the posting, the employee may remove his/her name from the bid by having a supervisor initial his/her name removed.) An employee who is offered the job, and who either accepts or rejects it, will not be permitted to bid on another opening for twelve (12) months. The foregoing time limits will not apply to an individual who wishes to bid on another job within his/her classification on his/her shift or on another shift. A notice will be posted indicating the successful bidder on the job.
(c)	The following rules shall govern in the application of the restrictions found in Clause9.03 (b).
1,	The time restrictions found in Clause 9,03
43
(b)	commence running on the calendar date (he employee signs the certification indicating his/her acceptance or rejection of the job.
2.	If an employee is the successful bidder on a job (referred to hereafter as the original job) thereby acceptingthe time restrictions imposed by Clause 9.03 (b), and that job to which he/she has bid is subsequently eliminated orhe/she is bumped from it, his/her bidding rights will be restored at the time of such elimination or bump, subject to the following conditions:
If he/she is offered recall to the original job under the provisions of Clause 9,07 and he/she accepts or rejects such recall, the original bidding restrictions will be reimposed with the same beginning date as the bidding restrictions referred to in the preceding paragraph.
(d)	Job vacancies created by the awarding of bids shall not exceed two transfers in any one chain. Any vacancies createdafter two transfers shall be filled in the following manner:
1.	If the vacancy created is a day shift job, it will be offered by seniority to employees within the same classification on other shifts,
2.	The Company will offer the vacancy by seniority to the employees who have filed self-requested transfers to the Plant where the vacancy exists; who are capable of performing the job within a reasonable training period.
3.	The remaining vacancy may be filled in the following manner: The Company shall be permitted to transfer one bargaining unit
44
employee provided he/she is agreeable, to fill the vacancy before hiring a new employee to fill the vacancy.
4.	Before proceeding under No. 3 above, a maximum of two (2) additional day shift jobs will be posted. If a third day shift job remains it will be offered by seniority within the classification to employees on the afternoon and night shifts.
If a vacancy is awarded to an employee under the provisions of Paragraph 2 or 3 above, the employee filling the job will accept the bidding restriction found in Clause 9.03 (b) unless such employee is newly hired under Paragraph 3 as an unclassified employee in which case bidding rights will be granted in accordance with Clause 9.04.
(e)	1. In the eventthat an employee is awarded a job through a job posting bid, self-requested transfer or company option and fails to qualify on that job within a reasonable training period he/she shall be returned to his/her previousjob with the balance of his/her bid restriction in force.
The vacancy thus created will be posted as a new opening.
The employee affected by the return of the employee who failed to qualify shall be returned to his/her previousjob and his/her bidding rights will be restored. If such job has been eliminated the affected employee will be treated as a displaced employee and will place him/herself in accordance with the terms of Clause 9.06 of the Collective Labour Agreement.
45
2.	In the event that an employee is awarded a job through displacement or recall from layoff and fails to qualify on that job within a reasonable training period he/she shall be treated as a displaced employee and will place him/herself in accordance with the terms of Clause 9.06 of the Collective LabourAgreement.
3.	An employee(s) who has qualified in his/her job and who subsequently becomes unable to perform that job because of substantiated chronic medical reasons or other legitimate reasons determined to be beyond his/her control shall be treated as a displaced employee and will place him/herself in accordance with the terms of Clause 9.06 of the Collective Labour Agreement. If the failure to qualify is caused by a serious injury or impairment from his/her employment with the Company and resultsin permanent disability, the terms of Clause 9.14 of the Collective Labour Agreement shall take precedence.
(f)	No vacancy will be posted if there are employees in displaced status requiring placement as provided in 9.06 (e) (See Clause 9.16, Paragraph (b) for meaning of the word “displaced'.)
(g)	In any event, once a bid chain has begun, it may not be interrupted to accommodate a displaced employee or an employee holding rights under Clause 9.07 except by mutual agreement between the parties.
9.04	Notwithstanding the provisions of Clause 9.01 and 9.03 (a) probationary unclassified employees with at least 30 days of service will be allowed to
46
sign for a posted classified vacancy in their respective departments, and in the event no senior employee has bid for and accepted the job, it will be awarded to the probationary bidder who has the greatest service. If a probationary employee is awarded a job underthis provision, he will acceptthe bidding restrictions contained in Clause 9.03(b). Nothing in this clause is to be construed as granting seniority to an employee prior to the completion of his/her probationary period.
9.05	(a) For the purpose of seniority application, the Bargaining Unit will be divided into three (3) seniority groups:
1.	Maintenance
2.	Lab
3.	Other departments in the Bargaining Unit which at present are: Belts, Hose, Material preparation, and Warehouse.
9.06
(a)	When it becomes necessary to reduce the work force, probationary employees shall first be laid off and then a sufficient number of senior employees shall be laid off, in reverse order of seniority, to reduce the work force to its proper number.
(b)	When the strength of a department is to be reduced, the appropriate number of employees will be removed (by layoff or displacement) so that the required number of employees remain.
(c)	When the strength of a classification is to be reduced, the appropriate number of employees will be removed, (by layoff or displacement) so that the required number of employees remain.
(d)	An employee displaced from his/her
47
classification will be placed as follows, (unless taking step (2) would place him/her on a less preferred shift in which case he/she may skip step (2). (For the purpose of this paragraph Day Shift is the most preferred, Graveyard shift is the second preference and Swing is the least preferred.) An employee may also skip step 2 to remain on his/her shift provided such move results in the employee remaining in the same department. If an employee volunteers to go to a less preferred shift he/she will fill an available opening or take a job in his/her classification in accordance with his/her seniority.
(1)	Notwithstanding the provisions of Clause 9.03 (a), if a vacancy exists at the time of his/her displacement, which vacancy would otherwise be posted underthe provisions of said Clause 9.03 (a), he/she will be given the option of filling such vacancy or placing him/herself underthe procedure described elsewhere in this Clause 9,06 (d).
(2)	Take a job on which he/she has had satisfactory prior service, in accordance with his/her seniority, orfailingthis
(3)	Take ajob in an equal or lower rated classification in accordance with his/her seniority, or, failing this
(4)	Take the job of the least senior employee.
(5)	If an employee is unable to maintain his/her shift through the application of 1 through 4 above, he/she may exercise his/her seniority to displace the least senior employee in a higher rated classification on his/her same shift, excluding long training jobs under 9.06 (j).
(e)	he/she will displace the employee with the least seniority in another seniority group
48
providing he/she has adequate seniority and is capable of doing the job within a trial period of two weeks, or, failing this /n he/she will be laid off from the plant.
The term "Prior Satisfactory Service” as used in this Article shall mean:
(1)	In the case of unclassified jobs, the employee has held the classification for three consecutive months during the most recenttwelve month period priorto his/her claiming priorsatisfactory service.
(2)	In the case of classified jobs, the employee cames an active E.I.E, in the classification where he/she claims priorsatisfactory service. In conjunction with the General Agreement on Implementation of a NonRated Payment System the term "prior satisfactory service" shall mean the direct training period for each job classification plus an additional four (4) weeks.
Further, in the case of classified jobs, the employee must have held such classification on a full time basis.
(h)	To determine what is meant by "equal or lower rated classification," E.I.E. will be used for classified classifications and Job Rate for unclassified classifications.
(i)	Notwithstandingthe preceding provisions of this Article IX, an employee in the following classifications, which are long training jobs, shall not be subject to replacement by another employee (having more seniority) for displacement, layoff or recall unless the other employee has the necessary prior satisfactory service to enable him/her to do the work satisfactorily:
CalenderOperator Banbury Operator
49
Lead ExtruderOperator Tuber/lnsulator Operator Twin Drum Builder
Should an employee be laid off out of seniority under this clause, he/she would receive S.U.B. payments starting the first full week of layoff. At such time as his/her S.U.B. payments may be exhausted he/she would be recalled consistent with his/her plant seniority.
9.07	Where an employee has been displaced from his/her job due to a cut in production and such job is resumed again within a three month period from the day he/she is displaced, he/she will be offered such job before it can be declared vacant. If during said three-month period the employee bids and is granted another job he/she will forfeit his/her rightto his/her former job.
9,08	Laid off senior employees will be recalled in accordance with their seniority before any new employees are hired.
In the event that ten (10) or more employees are to be recalled from layoff at the same time to the same plant or if a total of twenty (20) or more employees are to be recalled at the same time to more than one plant, the following procedure will be applied following the completion of any bid chains then in process:
(a)	The provisions of Clause 9.03 (9and9.07 of this agreement shall be applied before final job vacancies are determined.
(b)	Subject to the application of (a) above, vacancies will be posted under the provi-
50
sions of Clause 9.03 of this agreement only if they are day shiftjobs.
(c)	Thereafter,
i)	Employees will be recalled to work and assigned at the Company's discretion to fill vacancies on which they have held an Active E.I.E. within the last twelve (12) months of recall date.
ii)	Employees not assigned underi) above will be offered the choice of remaining vacancies in order of seniority.
iii)	Any vacancies remaining after ii) above has been completed will be posted under the provisions of Clause 9.03 of this agreement prior to hiring new employees.
9.09	Senior employees on lay off will be eligible for recall for a period of two years. Seniority shall accumulate for two years provided such seniority accumulation shall not exceed his/her actual service at time of lay off. A probationary employee who is laid off will have no recall rights, but if ha/she is re-hiredwithin a six month period he/she shall accumulate service for the time worked and it shall be credited to his/her probationary service.
9.10	An employee will lose his/her seniority for the following reasons:
(1)	Voluntarily quitting.
(2)	Discharge, not reversed through the grievance procedure.
(3)	Absence from work for three (3)working days without notifying the Company, unless a grood reason is given for not notifying the Company.
(4)	Failure to return to work or notify the Company of his/her intent within three (3) working days after receiving notice of
51
recall, but in any case he/she must return within seven days of recall notice unless he/she has a good reason for needing a longertime.
(5)	An employee who is laid-off with less than five years of factory seniority and is not recalled to work by the Company during the following two year period shall thereupon lose his/her seniority. An employee who is laid-off with five years or more of factory seniority and is not recalled to work by the Company during the following five year period shall thereupon loss his/her seniority.
9,11	The President, Vice-president, Secretary, Treasurer, Union Methods Engineer and the Bargaining Committee with one years continuous service shall not be laid off as long as there is work in the plant which they are capable of doing. Additionally, Divisional Chairpersons shall not be laid off or displaced from their Division so long as there exists work within their Division which they are capable of doing. The Company shall be kept informed of the personnel of the officers, Bargaining Committee and Stewards.
9.12	It is the intent of the Company to give Senior Employees five days advance notice of layoff, except where it is impracticable to do so. If notice is not given as provided above, the employee will be paid his/her attained hourly rate in lieu of work for that part of five days during which work was not made available.
9.13
(a) Any employee presently in, or who has
52
been in, what is now the Bargaining Unit, who transferred to a supervisory position or any position outside of the Bargaining Unit directly connected with the operation of the plant and who has completed his/her probationary period in the Bargaining Unit, or what is now the Bargaining Unit, will continue to accumulate seniority for the time spent on such supervisory or other position. If such employee is transferred back into the Bargaining Unit, he/she shall be returned to the department in which he/she last held a Bargaining Unit job, and will then be placed, exercising all of his/her accumulated seniority, as "an employee displaced from his/her classification", underthe provisionsof 9,06 (d),
(b)	On the first Occasion an employee transfers from the Bargaining Unit to non-bargaining unit work after the effective date of this agreement, he/she shall retain and accumulate seniority for a period of up to six (6) months from the date he/she was transferred out of the Bargaining Unit after which time he/she will retain but not accumulate seniority.
On the second and subsequent occasions he/she transfers from the Bargaining Unit to non-bargaining unit work after the effective date of this agreement he/she will retain but not accumulate seniority.
If the Company elects to return any such employee to the Bargaining Unit, he/she shall be returned to the department in which he/she last held a Bargaining Unit job, and will then be placed, exercising all of his/her retained seniority, as "an employee displaced from his/her classification", underthe provisionsof 9.06 (d).
(c)	In the application of Clause 9,06 (d) (3) as
53
provided for in this Clause 9.13, the employee returning to the Bargaining Unit will be assumed to carry the classification rate, (“A", “B” or "unclassified") which he/she carried at the time of his/her transfer out of the Bargaining Unit.
9.14	Any employee who suffers a serious injury or impairment from his/her employment with the Company, which results in permanent disability, and he/she is unable to continue working on his/her own operation, the Company will endeavour to place him/her on a suitable job for which he/she is qualified and capable of performing, in accordance with his/her seniority; once so placed, seniority may be waived in case of other employees displacing such employee. If superseniority is to be awarded pursuant to this section, the terms and conditions of tho job placement shall be mutually agreed to in writing by the Company and the Union.
9.15
(a) An employee absent from work because of bodily injuries caused by accident or sickness and qualified to receive weekly sickness and accident benefits under the terms of the Health and Life Insurance Agreement in effect from time to time between the Company and Union, shall be entitled to accumulate seniority and service during the period of his/her absence on the following basis:
(1) A senior employee who has less than two (2) years continuous service with the Company will be entitled to accumulate seniority and service up to the maximum period he/she is entitled to receive weekly sickness and accident benefits.
54
(2)	A senior employee who has two (2) years or more but less than ten (10) years of continuous service with the Company will be entitled to accumulate seniority and service for a maximum period of one (1) year.
(3)	A senior employee who has ten (10) or more years of continuous service with the Company will be entitled to accumulate seniority and service for a maximum period of two (2) years.
(b) The provisions of subsection (a) shall in no way limit the accumulation of seniority and service by an employee who is receiving Workers' Compensation Benefits.
An employee will not be subject to automatic termination at the end of his/her seniority accumulation period. It is understood, however, that this in no way restricts the right of the Company to terminate an employee for just cause.
9,16
(a)	"Lay off means to terminate an employee's employment due to a reduction in the size of the workforce. "Laid off shall have like meaning.
(b)	"Displace" means to remove an employee from his/her job classification either as a result of lack of work in that job or as the result of another employee exercising his/her seniority as provided in 9.06, A displaced employee, as contrasted with a laid-off employee, has enough seniority to remain on the payroll at time of cut back while the laid-off employee does not. To displace or to be so displaced shall have like meaning. The term "displaced" may also be used to describe an employee removed from his/her department due to a reduction in production.
55
9.17	When employees are recalled from layoff, they will be given their choice of available openings in order of their seniority. If, in this process, an employee selects an A or Bjob, he/she cannot bid on another job for a period of six months. If he/she selects an unclassifiedjob, he/she has immediate bidding rights.
9.18	An employee having at least six (6) months of seniority who is interested in being considered for a transfer from one department to another, may advise the Company on a form which may be obtained from the ProductionOffice.
Such requests shall be kept on file in the Human Resources Department. A copy of each requestfiled will be given to the employee and the Union. An employee shall not have more than one such request on file at any time. The Company will honour such request by seniority providing the request is on file within twenty-four (24) hours from the occurrence of the vacancy to be filled by self-request, and further providing the employee is capable of doing the job within a reasonable training period before hiring from the outside subject, however, to the restrictions contained in Paragraph (a), below:
A transfer effected under the provisions of this Clause 9.18 shall be known as "self-requested transfer".
If an employee accepts a self-requested transfer, he/she accepts with it the bidding restrictions found in Clause 9.03 (b).
The remaining vacancy may be filled in the following manner:
56
The Company shall be permittedto transfer one bargaining unit employee provided he/she is agreeable, to fill the vacancy before hiring a new employee to fill the vacancy.
(a) An employee shall not be eligible for a self-requested transfer if:
(1)	He/she carries the bidding restrictions found in Clause 9,03 (b), (This does not preclude an employee's filing a request pending the expiration of his/her bidding restrictions.)
(2)	In the case of transfers to the Transport Driver Classification or to the Laboratory or Maintenance departments, he/she does not meet the qualifications set forth elsewhere for entrv into those departments.
If an employee declines to accept a self-requested transfer for which he/she is eligible, then his/her request which established such eligibility shall be voided and he/she cannotfile anotherto replace it for a period of six months.
9.19	If an operation is transferred from one department to another or from one shift to another, the employee(s) assigned to such operation immediately prior to such transfer will be given the opportunity of transferring with it. Should this opportunity be declined, such employee(s) will be placed in accordance with the provisionsof Clause 9.06,
9.20
(a) Employees will be allowed to exercise their shift preference by seniority within their classification once each year under the following schedule:
Employees will be given the opportunity to select their shift preference to be effective
57
on the first Sunday following February 1st of each year during the life of the agreement. On January 1st, of each year, the Company will make available a form, to be submitted by the employee no less than fifteen (15) days prior to the effective date of the shift preference change. An employee displaced from his/her shift through the operation of this clause will remain in his/her classification and immediately exercise his/her opportunity for shift preference by seniority. An employee when exercising shift preference will bump the junior employee in the classification on his/her preferred shift.
In the event an employee is displaced under clause 9.06, his/her option to exercise shift preference will be restored and applied immediately within his/her existing or new job classification.
ARTICLE X
Leave of Absence
10,01	Seniority shall accumulate during any approved leave of absence.
10.02	In the event of the death of a member of an employee's family, the employee will be granted
58
a leave of absence for a reasonable time and will be reimbursed for lost time at his/her E.I.E. if on a classified job or unclassified rate if on an unclassified job up to a maximum of three (3)consecutive regular work days, one of which is the day of the funeral. The term “member of an employee’s family" means a husband or wife, child or parent, parent-in-law, brother or sister, brother-in-law or sister-in-law, son-in-law or daughter-in-law, grandparents, great grandparents, grandchildren and great grandchildren, and grandparents and great grandparents of the spouse. To qualify the employee must attend the funeral.
For the purposes of this Section, a stepparent or foster parent shall be considered as a parent and a stepson or daughter or foster son or daughter shall be considered as a son or daughter only where the stepparent or foster parent has taken the place of the natural parent in relations to such child and is not in receipt of any financial aid for the support of such child.
10.03	Leaves of absence may be granted to employees for personal reasons for a period not to exceed three (3)months, upon application of the employee and approval of the Company, so long as the services of the employee are not required, and there are employees available in the plant capable of doing his/her work.
10,04	Jury Duty Pay - The Company agrees to pay an employee who serves as a juror in a legally constituted court the difference between his/her earnings as ajuror and his/her E.I.E. or unclassified ratehe/she would have realized had he/she worked his/her scheduled shift. In order to be eligible for payment employees must notify their supervisor within twenty-four (24) hours after receipt of notice of
59
selection for jury duty and must furnish a written statement from the appropriate public official showing the date and time served and the amount of pay received.
10.05	A senior employee elected or selected as a full time officer or representative of Local 733, the URCLPWA, CLC orOFL upon request in writing to the Company, will be granted a leave of absence for whatever time is necessary. Should he/she request reinstatement within 30 days after the termination of the Union position, he/she will be reinstated in his/her former job. If his/her former job has been eliminated, he/she will be offered an available opening or have his/her seniority rights restored under Clause 9,06 (d),
10.06	A senior employee selected or elected to attend the convention of the International URCLPWA, CLC or OFL or for specific Union duties or Municipal elective duties will be granted a leave of absence upon application in writing at least one week priorto the day the leave starts. Not more than three employees at a time from Local 733 shall be off work for the purpose of attending the above convention, and the leave of absence shall not exceed three weeks. The Company will grant a leave of absence for up to five delegateselectedto attendthe Districte Council Convention of the URCLPWA, The Union will provideto the Company at least two weeks notice in writing of such leave.
60
ARTICLE XI
Miscellaneous
11,01	Subject to the terms and conditions of this Labour Agreement, the operation of the plant and the direction of all the employees, including the making and enforcing of reasonable rules to assure orderly and efficient plant operations, the determination of employee competency, the right to hire, to transfer, to promote, to demote, to suspend or discharge for just cause, to lay off for lack of work, are rights vested exclusively in the management of the Company. It is further agreed that the direction of the working forces, the right to plan, direct, and control plant operations, the right to relocate or close the plant, the right to introduce new or improved production methods or facilities, the amount of employees or supervision necessary, the right to place work with outside contractors, combining or splitting up department, schedules of production, establishment of standards of quality and quantity, determination of the extent to which the plant will be operated, and production or employment to be increased or decreased are vested exclusively in the Company.
The above rights of management are not to be considered as all inclusive, but are examples of some of the types of matters or rights or functions which the Company has not granted and are still part of the inherent rights of management. All of the rights, powers, authority, etc., that the Company had prior to the signing of this Agreement are retained by the Company, except those clearly spelled out as granted by management in this Agreement. If the Company in exercising its inherent rights to manage, violates any of the express provisions of this Agreement, the Union may file a grievance.
61
11.02	Presence of all employees on the job is necessary if regular production lines are to be kept running and full-time jobs are to be provided. Absenteeism on one job will adversely affect other employee's jobs. The Company and the Union agree that regular attendance will be required of all employees.
If an employee desires to be excused from work, he/she shall obtain permission of his/her foreman in advance. I n case of emergency where it is not possible to make previous arrangements, he/she shall notify the department or shift supervisor at the earliest possible moment. Absence without leave, or report, or without reason for non-reporting, or cases where the cause of absence is misrepresented will be reason for disciplinary action by the Company. Excessive unexcusable absenteeism may be the cause for discipline including dismissal.
11,03	One bulletin board will be provided in each Bargaining Unit Department for the exclusive use of the Union. These boards will be used for notices of meetings and other Union business or affairs. All material posted on these bulletin boards must bear the approval of a designated representative of the Human Resources Manager before being posted.
11.04	The Company shall provide proper safety devices and maintain sanitary conditions in the plant, and agree insofar as possible to eliminate conditions hazardous to the health and welfare of the employees. The employees will co-operate in keeping all areas of the plant and grounds in a clean and sanitary condition, and will be responsible for keeping their own work areas in a clean and orderly condition.
62
(a)	Three representatives of the Union shall participate in the plant Safety Program and will be paid theirA.H.E. or their job rate whichever is the higher up to four (4) hours per month for meetings with the Company and safety inspection throughout the plant.
11,05	The Company shall provide and have printed at its own expense sufficient copies of this Agreement and letters of understanding to fill the needs of the Union and the Membership.
11,06	Amendments • Any of the provisions of this Agreement may be amended by mutual consent of the parties in writing.
11.07	There shall be one regular meeting between the Company and the Union each month.
11.08	When a derogatory notation is placed in an employee's personnel record, the employee will be given a copy of the notation and a copy will be furnished to the President of the Local Union. If the employee feels that the notation is unjustified or inaccurate, the problem may be processed through the regular grievance procedure. Derogatory notations for offenses, except those for violation of Article III, not repeated within one year will be disregarded in the administration of discipline, and will be removed from the employee's department personnel record.
Any employee who is called into the foreman's office or the Human Resources Department to be reprimanded, disciplined, or discharged, shall be reminded in advance of such meeting of his/her right to have his/her Union Steward or Representative pre-
63
sent at such meeting. Any discipline administered without a Steward except where the employee refused the presence of a Steward will be removed from the employee's record and the employee will be made whole. If the employee does refuse the presence of a Steward, the employee shall sign an appropriate notation to this effect.
11.09	The parties have executed separate agreements covering Letters of Understanding, the Retirement Plan, Insurance, SUB, Skilled Trades, Apprenticeship Program, and Laboratory Job Classifications, Schedule "A" and Separation Payment Plan which form part of this agreement.
11.10	Persons not in the Bargaining Unit shall not work on jobs which are included in the Bargaining Unit except for the purpose of instruction, experimenting, temporary fill-ins during the shift, or in emergencies.
11.11	The Company may appoint Lead Hands. The rate for lead hand duties shall be $.30 added to his/her regular rate of pay. Names of lead hands appointed will be posted in their respective departments. A copy will be provided to the Union.
11.12	Where the term "working days" appears in this Agreement, it shall mean regularly scheduled working days exclusive of Saturdays, Sundays, Holidaysand days on which the plant is shut down.
64
ARTICLE XII
Union Security
12.01
(a)	Any employee who is a member of the Union in good standing on the effective date of this Agreement shall maintain his/her membership in the Union as a condition of his/her continued employment.
(b)	Any employee in the bargaining unit who is not a member of the Union shall become a member of the Union within 30 days of the signing date of this Agreement as a condition of continued employment.
(c)	Any employee hired or transferred into the bargaining unit on or after the effective date of this Agreement shall within 30 days become a member of the Union as a condition of employment and maintain his/her membership in the Union.
12.02	The Company will deduct from the wages earned (including regular Supplemental Unemployment Benefits paid) the authorized monthly Union dues and assessments from the first pay received in each calendar month and remit said deductionsto the Treasurer of Local733, URCLPWA.
12.03	Authorizations for dues deductions will be signed by the union member on a form furnished
65
by the Union and a copy of the authorization will be given to the Company. Authorizations once executed shall be irrevocable for the duration of this Agreement or any renewal thereof, provided that if the termination of this Agreement or any renewal thereof is followed by the execution of a new Agreement, these assignments and authorizations shall be deemed to be automatically renewed for the duration of such new Agreement.
12.04	Authorization for Union deductions shall be automatically revoked upon: (a) Termination of employment; (b) Transfer of employment into an occupation outside the bargaining unit.
ARTICLE XIII
Duration of Agreement
13.01 This Agreement shall be effective from the twenty-eighth day of April, 1994 and shall continue in torce until the 27th aav of April 1997, and shall continue automatically thereafter for annual periods of one year each, unless written notice is given to either party not more than ninety (90) days immediately prior to the expiration date or the anniversary date of any yearly period, that it is desired to terminate or to amend the Agreement. In the event such notice is given, the parties shall commence negotiations within fifteen (15) days thereafter.
66
The final termination of this Agreement will be in accordance with the Ontario Labour Relations Act.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto have executed this Collective Labour Agreement as of the 28th day of April, 1994.
LOCAL733. U.R.W.	GATES CANADA INC.
C. Scime	I.A. Pierce
G. MacDonald	B. Kelley
R. Sardinski	R. Sedman
R. Schmidt C. Noble J. Yardy
67
SUPPLEMENTALAGREEMENT NO. 1 WAGE AGREEMENT
In settlement of all wage demands presented against the Company during these negotiations, the following adjustments will be made:
1.	Effective April 28th, 1994 a general wage increase of $.30 per hour to be incorporated in the wage structure, plus a wage adjustment in the amount of $.10 perhourto beboxedonthe side.
2.	EffectiveApril 28th, 1995 a general wage increase of $.30 per hour to be incorporated in the wage structure, plus a wage adjustment in the amount of $.10 perhourto be boxedon the side.
3.	EffectiveApril 28th, 1996 a general wage increase of $.30 per hour to be incorporated in the wage structure, plus a wage adjustment in the amount of $.10 perhourto be boxedon the side.
4.	Skilled Trades Inequity increases as follows to all employees holding Journeyperson classifications, including Oiler Mechanic:
EffectiveApril 28th, 1994 - $.10perhour. EffectiveApril 28 th, 1995 - $.10 per hour.
5.	Lab Classification Inequity increases as follows to all employees holding the Laboratory Technician and Service Technician Classifications:
EffectiveApril 28th, 1994 - $.10 per hour EffectiveApril 28th, 1995 - $.10 per hour EffectiveApril 28th, 1996 - $.05 per hour
68
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto have
executed this agreement as of the 28th. day of April,
1994.
LOCAL 733, U.R.W.	GATES CANADA INC.
C. Scime	I.A. Pierce
G. MacDonald	B. Kelley
R. Sardinski	R, Sedman
R. Schmidt C. Noble J. Yardy
69
SUPPLEMENTALAGREEMENT NO. 2 HOLIDAY OBSERVANCE DATES
The purpose of this Agreement which is supplemental to the Collective LabourAgreement executed concurrently herewith, is to set forth the dates on which the holidays provided for in Clause 6.03 of the said Collective Labour Agreement will be observed.
1.	Holidays referred to above will be observed on the dates indicated below:
1994	1995	1996	1997
a NewYears Day
b.	Good Friday
c.	Victoria Day	May 23
d.	Canada Day	Jul. 1
e.	Civic Holiday	Aug. 1
1, Labour Day	sept. 5
g,	Thanksgiving Day Oct. 10
h.	Children's Xmas
Party	Dec. 26
I. Christmas Day	Dec. 27
j.	Floater No. 1	Dec. 28
k.	Floater No. 2	Dec. 29
Dec. 30/94 Jan. 1 Jan. 1
Apr. 14 Apr. 5 Mar. 28
May22 May 20
Jul. 3 Jul. 1
Aug. 7 Aug. 5
Sept. 4 Sept. 2
Oct, 9 Oct. 14
Dec. 25 Dec. 23 Dec. 26 Dec. 24 Jan. 2/95 Dec. 25 Jan. 2/96 Dec. 31’
11-7 shift will observe holidayon Jan. ^97
The schedule for Christmas and NewYears Holidays for 1996 will be subject to further discussion between the parties.
70
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto have
executed this agreement as of the 28th. day of April,
1994,
LOCAL 733, U.R.W. GATES CANADA INC.
C, Scime	I.A. Pierce
G. MacDonald	B, Kelley
R. Sardinski	R,	Sedman
R, Schmidt C. Noble J, Yardy
Ql
.EMENTAL AGR IENTN 3 MIONS FOR TR iPORT DRIVER CLASSIFICATION
In order to qualify as a Transport Driver a person must:
1,	Possess a valid chauffeur's driving permit or, when required, a valid Class "A" driving permit as designated by the appropriate Governmental licensing authority.
2,	Possess and maintain a driving record indicative of a competent, safe and accomplisheddriver.
3,	Have had satisfactory experience driving a single axled gas powered transport truck or other comparable model within the most recent five years prior to entry into the classification.
71
4.	Be bondable.
5.	Be age 25 or older.
6.	Be and must remain medically fit as determined by medical examination at time of entry into the classification and at twelve month intervals thereafter, eras otherwise required.
In addition to the foregoing, he/she must successfully pass a test of his/her proficiency in operation of the equipment he/she is to drive.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto have executed this Supplemental Agreement on Qualificationsfor Transport Driver Classificationas of the 28tii.day of April, 1994,
LOCAL 733, U.R.W. GATES CANADA INC.
I.A. Pierce B, Kelley R, Sedman
C. Noble J. Yardy
C, Scime G. MacDonald R. Sardinski R. Schmidt
72
SUPPLEMENTALAGREEMENT NO. 4 QUALIFICATIONS FOR STORESPERSON CLASSIFICATION
Inorderto qualify as a Storesperson a personmust:
1.	Havea minimum educational level of Grade 10 graduation.
2.	Score within the acceptable range on the required aptitude test.
3.	When a job bid occurs, all eligible applicants who hold a grade 10 education cr better will complete the GATB test as at present. The job will be awarded to the highest seniority applicant who scores at the 50th percentile or higher on the test.
4.	In the event that an employee wishes to bump into the classification under the terms of the Collective Labour Agreement he/she will be required to have completed at leasta grade 10 education and score at least at the 50th percentile on the GATB tests.
5.	Except for employees who hold recall rights to the classification, those who have previously held the job and who wish to return either through the bid procedure or by bumping will be required to qualify under either 3. or 4, above as applicable.
73
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto have
executed this Supplemental Agreement as of the
28th. day of April, 1994.
LOCAL733, U.R.W.	GATES CANADA INC.
C. Scime	I.A. Pierce
G. MacDonald	B. Kelley
R, Sardinski	R. Sedman
R. Schmidt C. Noble J. Yardy
SUPPLEMENTALAGREEMENT NO. 5 HEALTH AND SAFETY
The following has been agreed to during 1994 contract negotiations:
(a) The Company and Union agree that it is in the best interest of both partie8 to work together cooperatively to identify and recommend reasonable measures to protect the health and safety of employees.
It is recognized that input from employees and the Union through discussion, formulation and communication of recommendations is important to the success of Health and Safety efforts at Gates Canada Inc.
74
(b) A training session will be arranged for members of the Joint Health and Safety Committees to provide the knowledge necessary to be able to read and understand the internal environmental testing reports furnished by the Gates Corporate Industrial Hygienists. Such training will be arranged through the Corporate Safety Department as early as is practical.
(o) When the annual visit to conduct internal environmental testing is made by the Gates Corporate Industrial Hygienist the co-chairs of the Joint Health and Safety Committees will be given an adequate opportunity to discuss with him/her any specific concerns, questions or requests they may have.
(d) Union Health and Safety Representatives will continue to be paid their normal rate of pay for time spent on health and safety matters at the request of the Joint Health and Safety Committees or by the management of the company.
(e) The parties agree that every reasonable effort will be made to maintain one (1) replacement Certified Worker Health and Safety Representative at each of the three main Brantford facilities. This will be subject to continuation of a requirement in law for certified representatives and the availability of certified training programs.
(9 Supervisors and Health and Safety Representatives will receive at least one (1)
75
Joint Health and Safety Training Course in each year of the Collective Labour Agreement. Subjects for training will be recommended by the Joint Health and Safety Committees and may vary in content between facilities. The content, duration and scheduling of such courses will be subject to approval by the Company.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto have executed this Supplemental Agreement as of the 28th. day of April, 1994.
LOCAL 733, U. R,W,	GATES CANADA INC.
C, Scime	I.A. Pierce
G. MacDonald	B, Kelley
R, Sardinski	R. Sedman
R, Schmidt C, Noble J, Yardy
SUPPLEMENTALAGREEMENT NO. $ SAFETY FOOTWEAR AGREEMENT
The parties hereto agree that the following shall govern the payment of subsidies by the Company to hourly employees toward the purchase of safety footwear:
1. The wearing of safety footwear by all hourly employees while working in Gates Canada Inc. shall remaincompulsory.
76
2,	All safety footwear must be of a type approved by the Canadian Standards Association for industrial use. The running shoe type of safety footwear will not be permitted.
3.	The Company agrees to subsidize employees safety footwear cost as follows:
a)	All hourly employees on the active payroll on May 1, 1994 will receive the sum of seventy-five dollars ($75.00). Such payments will likewise be made to employees on the active payroll on May 1st of each year thereafter.
b)	Employees on layoff status on May 1st. of each year will receive the subsidy upon return from layoff for the year in which they are recalled.
4.	Employees will be free to purchase safety footwear from the supplier of their choice providing it meets the standard set out in 2) above.
5,	This Agreement supersedes any previous Agreements made regarding safety footwear and is made without prejudice to any other agreements between the Company and Union.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto have
executed this Supplemental Agreement as of the
28th. day of April, 1994.
77
LOCAL 733, U.R.W.
C. Scime G. MacDonald Fi. Sardinski R. Schmidt C. Noble J. Yardy
GATES CANADA INC.
I.A. Pierce B. Kelley R. Sedman
78
April 28, 1994
Mr. Garry MacDonald President
Local No. 733, URCLPWA
Letter of Understands. No. 1 of 23 RE: Application ol Article IX of Collective Labour igreement
DearMr, MacDonald:
I n our contract negotiationsjuSt ended, we agreed on the following interpretation applicable to the seniority provisionsof our Collective Labour Agreement:
It is agreed that it will be perinissible to temporarily relieve employees of their wor^t, out of seniority, for a period up to three days when ^uch temporary relief is occasioned by equipment bn ikdown, powerfailure or shortage of materialsfrom i itside sources.
Yours truly,
I. A. Pierce, Dire :or Corporate Labor Mations
ACCEPTED AND AGREED:
Garry MacDonald, President Local No. 733, URCLPWA
79
April 28, 1994
Mr, Garry MacDonald President
Local No. 733, URCLPWA
Letter of Understanding No. 2 of 23 RE: Miscellaneous Matterto be Printed in the CLA Booklet
Dear Mr. MacDonald:
In the negotiationsjustcom|: would include in the printed manes of the benefitsprovidi
SUB Agreement Health and Life Insurances Agreement Separation Payment Plar
ejeted, we agreed that we ' CLA booklet brief sum-lid underthe following:
Yours truly,
I.A. Pierce, Dii wtor Corporate Labqr Relations
ACCEPTED AND AGREED: i
I
Garry MacDonald,President!
Local No. 733, URCLPWA !
80
April 28, 1994
Mr, Garry MacDonald President
Local No. 733, URCLPWA
Letter of Understand g No. 3 of 23 RE: Application of Carta COLA Provisions
Dear Mr, MacDonald:
In the 1974 negotiations, we eached certain understandings with respect to he Interim Increase (COLA) language to be int irporated in our new Collective LabourAgreement.
1,	It is agreed that the adju ments provided for at periodic intervals under :aid language do not pyramidon each other.
2,	The Company has taken the position that payments under the COLA provisions are subject to reduction. It is the Union's: position that there can be no reduction in any sudji payments.
3,	In view of the foregoing, it: has been agreed that any dispute which may arise in regard to reducing COLA payments will be subject to arbitration.
Yours truly,
I.A Pierce, Dire tor Corporate Laboi Mations
ACCEPTED AND AGREED:
Garry MacDonald, President Local No. 733, URCLPWA
81
April 28, 1994
Mr. Garry MacDonald President
Local No. 733, URCLPWA
Letter of Understai RE: Practices
Dear Mr. MacDonald:
This confirms certain conr Company during the contra plated.
The Company will:
1. Continue to sponsor the have done in the past, enough interestin itto mi
ijiding No. 4 of 23 Ibe Continued
nitments made by the t negotiationsjust com-
tcnic pretty much as we f there continues to be ke itworthwhile.
2. Supply safety boots, rub ler aprons and eye protection without charge foi jobs as required.
Sell Gates merchandise publishedcatalogue leve
to employees at lowest plus applicable taxes.
4.	Provide gloves without ci st to employees occupying the classifications list d below, with the understanding that stringent controls will be set up to prevent abuse of the privi ege:
a.	BeltVulcani^
b.	Open-end P
c.	HelperClas
d.	Lead Extrudj
ers
ress Operator isifications in Crews
r Crew
82
e.	Curved Host Jure Operators
f.	Horizontal Wire Braider Operators
5,	Sell gloves at one-half G not covered in 4, above, f<
es cost to employees use intheirjobs.
6.	Supply and launder covr jobs listed in Clause 4,031
ills for employees on the Agreement.
7,	Keep sets of coveralls i ailable which will be issued to any employee e signed to the following jobs, as required:
a.	Clean a
This involves a complr machine; not simply a els surfaces,
b.	Clean curved hr
c.	Lead Ext
i degrease braider. s wash down of the ling of the deck outer
9 cure area and pit. der crew.
Yours truly,
I, A. Pierce, Director Corporate Labo delations
ACCEPTED AND AGREED:
Garry MacDonald, President Local No. 733, URCLPWA
83
April 28, 1994
Mr, Garry MacDonald President
Local No. 733, URCLPWA
Letter of Understi RE: Application
Dear Mr, MacDonald:
:apding No. 5 of 23 of Clause 9,07
In our recently completed the following understanding cation of Clause 9.07:
1, The word "job" as it is positions within a given c
2, An employee may secur^ recall tights under9.07 as a result of
rpegotiationswe reached with regard to the appli-
used in 9.07 means all assification.
a. Being displaced from hii tion of strength in that cla
s/her job due to a reduc-ssification; or
Being bumped from employee.
tjis/herjob by another
3.	If more than one employ given job, such rights wi dance with seniority.
4,	If an employee holds re and he/she refuses re becomes available to hi
ee has recall rights to a ' be exercised in accor-
tall rights to a given job call when the job again m/her, he/she thereupon
forfeits his/her recall right and that job becomes a vacancy.
5,	If an employee is displace within the meaning of 9.07, accordingly holding ecall rights to the job and shift from which he/sh was displaced, and is subsequently displaced t jm another job while holding recall rightsto the >rmer, he/she must, at the time of the latter dis lacement, declare to which job he/she wishes tis/her recall rights to apply, i.e, he/she cannot h Id recall rightsto more than onejob.
“The term 'recall' as used ir this interpretive letter means the return of an en iloyee, displaced from his/her job but not laid o , to a job from which he/she was displaced. It I sars no relationship to the recall rights covered ii Clause 9.08. 'Recall rights' as used in connecti n with 9.07 apply only to moves within the plant rhile the 'recall rights' provided in 9.08 referto r< jming a person to the payroll from laid off status Rights granted under 9.07 do not survive layoff."
Yours truly,
I. A. Pierce, Dire or Corporate Labor delations
ACCEPTED AND AGREED:
Garry MacDonald, President Local No. 733, URCLPWA
85
April 28, 1994
Mr. Garry MacDonald lflfot733, URCLPWA
Pocsi
Letter of Undersl RE: Application
(tending No. 6 of 23 of Clause 5.12
Dear Mr. MacDonald:
In our negotiations just com would combine the content: understanding, (Numbers 11 applications of Clause 5. This we have done, with n letter No. 22.
A. Old letter No. 11 provided as follows:
This is to record an under our recent negotiations re< Section 5.12 of the Collectiv
We have agreed that the p
Dieted, we agreed that we :s of our 1971 letters of and 22) which pertain to 2 into this single letter. bw modifications to 1971
standing reached during yarding the application of e Labour Agreement.
prase “the rate of the job
transferred to", where it appears in the second sentence of Section 5.12 shall be given the meanings described in numbered paragraphs 1,2 and 3 below:
1.	If an unclassified worker is transferred to another unclassified operation, {he phrase “rate of the job transferred to” shall m|ean the rate of the job transferred to as shown ip Schedule “A”.
2.	if an unclassified worker is transferred to a classified operation on which he/she has had prior satisfactory service, as defined in Section 9.06 (h), the phrase “rate of the job transferred to” shall mean the rate structure of the job transferred to
86!
including the job rate, E. E. and CAP and the guarantees found in Sec ion 5,14, when such guarantees are applicable.
3, If an unclassified worker i$ transferredto a classified operation on which he/she has not had prior satisfactory service, is defined in Section 9,06 (h), the term "rate ol he job transferredto" shall mean the job rate of I e job transferred to.
It is also agreed that:
1, This letter only interprets t i phrase referredto in its second paragraph.
This letter has no applicatk than those specifically d paragraphs 1,2 and 3 abo
i to any situation other scribed in numbered
3. The contents of this lette will not be used as a basis for interpretation of any other provision of the agreement or modification of any existing, accepted practice.
B. Old letter No. 22 provided, s follows:
There have been Company I inefit Transfers which were of excessive duration, (t g. the one year example), and there have been Is gthy transfers across shifts which may have created in undue hardship.
Without losing sight of the fa : that this language in Clause 5,12 provides a vital fl< tibility to the Company which cannot be seriously im| lired, we have agreed that we will give consideratior to bidding in anticipated long term situations and tl it we will avoid crossshift Company Benefit Trai sfers of more senior
87
employees (where a substantial length of time is involved), where within-the-fehift transfers will suit the purpose equally well, without an undue disruption of production.	i
It is recognized, however, that developmental work presents a different problem from the ordinary Company Benefit Transfer,! and that in these cases the Company must reserve the complete right to select the operator(s) for such work.
C.	Normally, we will not Company Benefit Transfer an employee for a period longer than one month unless the employee so transferred is willing to accept such transfer for a longer period of time. This thought must be applied with due regard to the qualifications of available personnel.
Where a long term Company Benefit Transfer may be anticipated, we will, before [bidding, as suggested in the second paragraph of o d letter No. 22, offer the employees within the classification involved an opportunity to reposition thpmselves on more desirable shifts.	!
D,	Where a C.B.T, has surpassed twenty-one (21)
days in duration and it appears that it may extend beyond the normal thirty (3 0) day limit, the Department Manager andj Divisional Chairperson will review the situation tb determine if there are other qualified people available to take over the C.B.T. assignment andjto make appropriate arrangements. This would, of course, not be necessary if the individual involved has already agreed to accept the assignment beyond the thirty day limit.	T
88'
Yours truly,
I.	A. Pierce, Dire
corporate Labo
ACCEPTED AND AGREED:
Garry MacDonald, President Local No. 733, URCLPWA
89
or
delations
!
April 28, 1994	,
Mr. Garry MacDonald President
Local No. 733, URCLPWA
Letter of Understanding No. 7 of 23 RE: Paymentfor Uh ion Representatives
Dear Mr. MacDonald:
In the negotiationsjust endf the Company will pay Union Representati lows:	'
d, we have agreed that ves for time lost as fol-
1.	The Company will pa1 Bargaining Committee up meetings.
2,	The Company will pay Bargaining Committee orji of each Step 3 meeting
Yours truly,
I .A. Pierce, Dir Corporate Labe
ACCEPTED AND AGREED:
Garry MacDonald, President Local No. 733, URCLPWA
90
each member of the to two hours for Step 3
each member of the e hour each in advance
■petor
r Relations
April 28, 1994
Mr. Garry MacDonald President
Local No. 733, URCLPWA
Letter of Understar ling No. 8 of 23 RE: Applicationo: Clause 10.02 of the Collective Li tour Agreement
DearMr. MacDonald
It was agreed in 1977 contract negotiations that in conjunction with Clause 10.Q2 of the C.L.A, that in special circumstancesapproVed by the Company, an employee may be granted a one day leave of absenceinthe event it is not possible for the employee to attend the funeral of a designated relative.
Yours truly,
I.A. Pierce, Dir< :tor Corporate Labo Relations
ACCEPTED AND AGREED:
Garry MacDonald, President Local No. 733, URCLPWA
91
April 28, 1994
Mr. Garry MacDonald President
Local No. 733, URCLPWA
Letterof Understa idlng No. 9 of 23 RE: Partial Payfc 1 Union President
Dear Mr. MacDonald:
The President of Local 733, on Fridays to conduct affairs Company will pay the Local his/her regular rate of pay, observed on a Friday, the Ui ular scheduled wok-day pre< substitutedforthe Friday.
U.R.W, will be off work |of the Local Union. The Union eight hours pay at When a paid holiday is irtion President’s last regrading the holiday will be
Yours truly,
I .A. Pierce, Director Corporate Labor Relations
ACCEPTED AND AGREED:
Garry MacDonald, President Local No. 733, URCLPWA
April 28, 1994
Mr. Garty MacDonald President
Local No. 733, URCLPWA
Letter of Understanding No. 10 of 23 RE: Vacation Replao ment Employees
DearMr, MacDonald
It is agreed that in the future Jluring the period from June 1 through September 1 the Company may hire vacation replacements in the Warehouse at contractual starting rates, and they wjll progress as per the Collective Labour Agreement. Vacation replacement employees so hired may be a! signed to any job, any shift. They will not be covers i by the Company for Extended Health Care, Dental, Weekly Indemnity and Life Insurance.
Vacation replacements will no be hired at such time as senior employees are on la; off status.
Yours truly,
I. A. Pierce, Dire< ;or Corporate Labor delations
ACCEPTED AND AGREED:
Garry MacDonald, President Local No. 733, URCLPWA
93
April 28, 1994
Mr, Garry MacDonald President
Local No. 733, URCLPWA
Letterof Understai RE: Job VacaiT
ding No. 11 of23 ey for Posting
Dear Mr. MacDonald:
During the 1977 negotiations, the parties discussed what would constitute a job vacancy for the purpose of posting.
As a result of our disoussi' vacancy exists and must b£ worked in excess of thirty (30’
If a special circumstance (30) hours must be exte Head and Division Chairpi the expiry of the thirty (3t( at a mutually agreed upon
’n, it was agreed that a jxisted when such job is ') hours a week.
arises where the thirty ihded, the Department erson will meet before ) hours to try to arrive solution.
Yours truly,
I.A. Pierce'Diiaotor Corporate Laixpr Relations
ACCEPTED AND AGREED:
Garry MacDonald, President Local No. 733, URCLPWA
i
i
I
April 28, 1994
Mr. Garry MacDonald President
Local No. 733, URCLPWA
Letter of Understating No. 12 of 23 RE: Partial Pay for Union Methods Engineer
DearMr. MacDonald
The Company will pay up to , a maximum of twenty (20) hours per week at his/h^r regular rate of pay for the actual time the Union Methods Engineer is off his/her regularjob and engaged in duties required of him/her as Union Methods Engineer, In order to be
ed from the International Time Study School or from an equivalent program recognized by the Union and Company.
If the Union Methods Engineer is required by the Union to engage in time study duties in excess of twenty (20) hours in a week He/she will be released for the requiredtime butwithoMt pay by the Company.
The Company may assigr( work to the Union Methods Engineer for the balance of hours in the week during which he/she is not engaged in time study activities with payment at his/her regular rate of pay or the rate of the job to which he/she is assigned, whichever is higher.
All Company payment for time study activities will be subject to reasonably detailed documentation of the time spent
95
Yours truly,
I.A. Pierce ector Corporate Latior Relations
ACCEPTED AND AGREED:
Garry MacDonald, President Local No. 733, URCLPW
i
E
April 28, 1994
Mr. Garry MacDonald President
Local No. 733, URCLPWA
Letter of Understanding No. 13 of 23 RE: Application of Clause 9.03 (9 of the Collective Labour Agreement
I
DearMr. MacDonald:
In the 1969 negotiations, there was a lot of discussion about the application of this section, and I want to reiterate our thoughts in regard to its application in the way it was negotiated.
The purpose of 9.03 (f) is to allow placement of employees who must be placejd underthe provisions of Section 9.06. This means tpat before 9.03 (f) can be applied, there must be a need for its application i n order to utilize 9.06,
The Union is concerned thatwfe might misapply 9,03 by displacing an employee whfn a vacancy occurs in order to avoid biddingtne vacancy, This would be an obvious misuse of 9.03 (9 andifar from its intent, particularly since the job occupied by the displacee would soon have to be filled, ^uch a dodge would be transparent, and not condoned by the Committee or by me.
We have assured the Union ithat we will not "play games" with this language. I
I will expectyou to see to it theft we use this language only in the spirit in which it was intended.
97
I.A. Pierce, Oifi Corporate
Lab-31
ACCEPTED AND AGREEC
ector
r Relations
Gariy MacDonald, Presidei Local No. 733, URCLPWA
9
April 28, 1994
Mr, Garry MacDonald President
Local No. 733, URCLPWA
Letter of Understanding No. 14 of 23 RE: Adjustment of P t Cheque Errors
Dear Mr. MacDonald:
Pay cheque errors will be adjusted as soon as possible after notification has bfen furnished to the Company by the employee bui at any rate, not later than three (3) working days after the error has been established,
Yours truly,
I. A Pierce, Dire :|or Corporate Labor Relations
ACCEPTED AND AGREED:
Garry MacDonald, President Local No. 733, URCLPWA
99
April 28, 1994
Mr. Garry MacDonald President
Local No. 733, URCLPWA
Letterof Understanding No. 15 of 23 RE: Vacation Schedule Policy
DearMr. MacDonald:	i
The existing Vacation Schedule policy will continue to provide for a maximum of |15% of the employees being off on vacation subject to the other provisions remainingthe sam§.
I
Yours truly,
I.A. Pierce, Director Corporate Labor Relations
ACCEPTED AND AGREED: !
Garry MacDonald, President;
Local No. 733, URCLPWA
April 28, 1994
Mr, Garry MacDonaldPresidi it Local No. 733, URCLPWA
Letterof Understar ling No. 16 of 23 Re: Layoffand/or I seal! Temporarily outofSe iority
Dear Mr. MacDonald:
This will confirm our agrei nent arrived at during 1985 C.L.A, Negotiationsth t, upon mutual consent between the Company and fie Union, the Company will be permittedto do the following:
a)	In the event of layoff retain necessary employees out of seniority for a maamum of four (4) weeks beyond normal layoff dati for the purpose of training replacements. An er late additional seniority i being retained out of seni
b)	In the event of recall fn language included in Cli the actual date of return
jloyee will notaccumu-ider Clause 9.09 while rity.
n layoff under the new tse 9.08 of the C.L.A., o work may not neces-
sarily be in order of sen rrity for the purpose of proceeding with startup jperations in the most
orderly fashion possible accumulate additional sei while recalledoutof senir
An employee will not ority under Clause 9.09 ity.
Yours truly,
I.A. Pierce, Dir tor Corporate Latx Relations
ACCEPTED AND AGREED:
Garry MacDonald, President
Local No. 733, URCLPWA
101
April 28, 1994
Mr. Garry MacDonald President
Local No. 733, URCLPWA
Letter of Understanding No. 17 of 23 Re: Notificationpf Intentions to Contract Out Work
Dear Mr. MacDonald:
If the Company is considerirpg contracting out work, they will advise the designated Union Representative.
Such notification will be made in advance of arrangements being made, wherever practical to do so, to allow an opportunity for inpjjt on the use of skilled trades employees. If it is mutually agreed upon between the Company and the Union the work involved may be performed by skilled trades employees. Otherwise the work will, be performed as designated by the Company. 1
When it is not practical to gjye advance notification, the Company will provide subsequent notification to the designated Union Representative.
Yours truly,
i
I, A. Pierce, Director Corporate Labo'r Relations
ACCEPTED AND AGREED: j
Garry MacDonald, President, Local No. 733, URCLPWA
102 i
April 28, 1994
Mr, Garry MacDonald President
Local No. 733, URCLPWA
Letter of Understanding No. 18 of 23 Re: Expedite Bid Chains
DearMr, MacDonald
1,	All paperwork to be processed in 48 hours (two (2) working days) anter bid removal.
2,	Divisional Chairperson to meet with Department Head to discuss expediting movement as quickly as possilale.
3,	The Company will make a good faith effort to have a pool of approved applicants available to fill job openingsasthiiy may occur.
4,	If ajob is being closed on ina bid or displacement then training of the employee leaving that job will commencewlthin two (2) weeks.
5,	Normallyall movementYVillbe done inthe Ume frame corresponding with actual training Ume per classification. 1
6,	The foregoing is subj ret to review at the request of either party,
Yours truly,
I, A. Pierce, Dire dor Corporate Laboi Relations
ACCEPTED AND AGREED:
Garry MacDonald, President
Local No. 733, URCLPWA
103
April 28, 1994
»
Mr. Garry MacDonald President
Local No. 733, URCLPWA
Letter of Understand Re: Genera'IAgreement of a Non-Rated Pay
ing No. 19 of 23 on Implementation ment System
Dear Mr. MacDonald:
The parties hereto agree that conditions shall be applied to removed from payment undo
by agreement between the pa
the following terms and each operation that is r the incentive system rties.
1. Unless specifically modifl agreement, the relevant p LabourAgreementwill ap|
under this or another ortions of the Collective
2, Payment for experienced cap rate of the operation all hours wo iked on sucti operatlon(s) including
ho require training on o do not hold an active
overtime. Employees w such operation(s) and wh E.I.E. in the classification will be paid for the specified training period at jcb rate following which
they will be considered receive cap rate
operators will be at the number(s) involved for
experienced and will
3, Employees who hold the Utility classification and who act as relief operators during break periods
or during other absence jjf the operator or while sharing duties normally performed by the operator will receive cap payment lor that operation for all such hours of work. Eligibility for cap paymentwill
104'
begin when the employee is capable of performing the operation without direct supervision by a trainer. During direct training, the employee will receive his/her regular rate of pay or job rate for the classification on which! training is being conducted, whichever ishighef,
4,	Employees are expected jto produce top quality products using S.RC, as outlined in the operation as a tool to achieve this quality. At all times, quality will be of primary importance.
5,	Employees are expected^ work at a satisfactory effort level for all productive time available during their shift, excluding the usual standard allowances. Employees ajje expected to work as a team within the team ^irea as defined in the agreementon that area.
6,	An experienced employee working in a team defined in the agreement dh that area will, if transferred under Clause 5.12 of the C.L.A. to an operation in his/her own or slnother defined team, receive the cap rate for his/her own classification prpap rate for thejob transferred to, whichever is
An experienced employee working in a team definedinthe agreement that area will, if transferred under Clause 5.12 of the C.L.A, to an operation which is not in a defined team, receive the cap rate for his/her own classification or payment as prescribedin Clause 5.12, whichever is higher.
An employee working in a team defined in the agreement on that area will be offered the option to leave the plant under the terms of Clause 5.13 of the Collective Labour Agreement provided there is no other productive work available on any other operation includedin the defined team area. For purposes of this claus^, productive work shall
105
be defined as performing duties directly on a product and does not include work pertaining to facilities such as clean up, painting, etc.
Ifan employee is not offered the option to leave, payment will be at cap fpr the operation assigned or cap for the employees own classification, whichever is higher.	1
i
If an employee is offered the option to leave and elects to stay at work, payment will be made in accordance with Claus? 5.13 of the Collective
LabourAgreement.	j
I
The Company will endeavour to balance the option to leave under Clause 5.13 as equitably as is practical between employees in a classification
on a shift,
Where an employee assigned to a team defined in the agreement on thqit area comes under the terms of Clause 5.15 of jhe C.L.A. “E.I.E,” will be changedto read "Cap payment” in that clause. In all other respects, the t?rms of Clause 5.15 will apply.	i
7.	Part of the job will consist of time set aside for discussions aimed at improving all aspects of the job in areas of quality, quantity, work environment and items of preventive maintenance that would best be done by the operators to ensure high quality production.
8.	Record keeping in S.P.C tion, downtime, defects, to monitor and improve non-rated system.
and statistics of produc-etc. will be used as tools the effectiveness of the
9,	In the event that eithelr party gives notice of tenninetion of a specific] agreement relating to a non-rated area, the company and Union will coop-
erate in reintroducing pr soon as possible to eacl that was formerly incentf be accomplished on any the fourteen (14) day noti
per incentive rates as operation in that area » rated. If this cannot given operation within e period then payment
will continue on such operation as outlined in Item 2 or 3 of this agreementliuntil such time as the rates are installed.
10.The Company has set concerning the removal of dated May 1,1989 and
0iut general intentions iincentive rates in letter 11,1989.
May
11. The patties agree to meet any unforeseen items thi period this agreement is ir may be amended at any ment between the parties.
and attempt to resolve may arise during the effect. This agreement ime by mutual agree-
12. All guarantees will be pai non-ratedpaymentsysten is eligible to be paid at tt being performed when t arises.
at cap rate under the provided the employee > cap rate for the work e guarantee situation
13. All specific agreements relating to non-rated areas are hereby updated ilong with this General Agreement.
Yours truly,
I.A. Pierce, Dire tor CorporateLabo Relations
ACCEPTED AND AGREED:
Garry MacDonald, President
Local No. 733, URCLPWA
107
April 28, 1994
Mr, Garry MacDonald President
Local NO. 733, URCLPWA
]
Letter of Understanding No .20 of 23 Re: Prior Satisfactory Service
Dear Mr. MacDonald:
I
In conjunction with the Gjeneral Agreement on Implementation cf a Non-Rated Payment System the term “prior satisfactory service” shall mean the direct training period for each job classification plus an additional four (4) weeks.
Yours trnly,
I.	A. Pierce, Director Corporate Labor Relations
ACCEPTED AND AGREED: j
Garry MacDonald, President Local No. 733, URCLPWA (
108
April 28, 1994
Mr, Garry MacDonald President
Local No. 733, URCLPWA
Letter of Understanding No. 21 of 23 Re: Shift Change Guidelines
Dear Mr, MacDonald:
As you know, Clause 6,02 (b) < a change in working hours a request without the necessil rates.
This has been a source ol between the Company and th< and in orderto minimize future lowing guidelines are being iss vision.
1.	Requests must be in writing and approved in advance c Except in the case of extei such arrangements must t two (2) working days priorti
2,	The changes, in most cai complete shift change. Fo ee may be allowed to chs afternoon shift for one or m
: the C.L.A, allows for an employee's own of paying overtime
continuing conflict Union for some time lisagreement, the fol-ed for use of this pro-
and must be received the change of hours, lating circumstances, i made no later than the change.
is, should only be a example, an employ-ge from day shift to re days but a change
109
from 7-3 to 8-4 should r >t normally be permitted except in extenuatingcin umstances,
3.	Good judgement and ronsistency should be applied in determining ti 9 validity of the request. Changes should be gran ed only where there is a compelling personal n »ed on the part of the employee and notmerel 1 for convenience or personal preference. As an example, medical appointments which ca inot be altered may be considered valid reason!. Leaving early to avoid holiday traffic or working »xtra time to make up for being late would definite y not be acceptable reasons.
4.	All requests must be app iroved by the Department Head and processed thr ugh Human Resources priorto being granted.
5,	In all cases, potential f oblems which might be created by a shift changr must be a prime consideration.
Yours truly,
I .A. Pierce, Di actor Corporate Lab >r Relations
ACCEPTED AND AGREED
Garry MacDonald, Presiden Local No. 733, URCLPWA
11<
April 28, 1994
Mr. Garry MacDonald President
Local No. 733, URCLPWA
Letterof Understand ig No. 22 of 23 Re: Amendment to ichedule A'
DearMr. MacDonald
Schedule 'A' to be amende^! to reflect combination of Warehouse Man classification and Trucker Stockman classification Intel single classification of Warehouse Man.
Employees going into the i Warehouse Man on or aftei 1994 agreement will be req lift operator’s license ae pa job, excluding vacation repl
ngle classification of the effective date of ired to obtain a fork of qualifying for the cements.
Yours truly,
I. A Pierce, Dlri dor Corporate Latx Relations
ACCEPTED AND AGREED
Garry MacDonald, Presldeni Local No. 733, URCLPWA
111
April 26, 1994
Mr. Garry MacDonald President
Local No. 733, URCLPWA
Letter of Understanding^. 23 of 23 Re: Trainingof Multiple Machine Classifications
Dear Mr. MacDonald:
In multiple machine class will complete training of aspects of the job within
date on which initial trainiiV circumstances beyond Company render compli^i
impractical.
ifications the Company the employee on all ten (10) weeks of the ig starts except where the control of the nee with this clause
If the Company fails to conjiply for reasons within its control and the employee is denied an overtime opportunity as a result, he/she will be made
whole.	i
Yours truly,
I, A Pierce, Diijector Corporate Labfjr Relations
ACCEPTED AND AGREED:!
Garry MacDonald, Presiderjt Local No. 733, URCLPWA '
112
SUMMARIES OF BENEFIT PLANS
The next several pages contain brief descriptions of certain employee benefits negotiated by the Company and the Union in thp form of Agreements on Health and Life Insurance, Supplemental UnemploymentBenefitsand Separation Payments.
Please keep in mind that the'brief summaries presented here only highlight the contents of lengthy Agreements, and are intended solely to let you know of the existence and nature pf these benefits in a general way. The language of the actual Agreements will govern in the application oflthese pians.
If you have questions on any of the benefits described here, feel free to ^sk your supervisor to arrange an appointment for ypu with someone who will provide you with properexplanation.
HEALTH AND LIFE INSURANCE PLAN
1. LifeandA.D. & D, Benefits
Life A.D.&D, Employees May 1,1994 $25,000	$25,000
Pensioner	$ 8,000 none
2,	Transition Survivor Income benefit
Minimum service required for eligibility is 1 year. Payable to the spouse, dependent children or dependent parent(s) upon the death of the employee, as set forth in thp Agreement.
113
I
The amount payable is j $350 per month to be reduced by any Statutory Benefit receivable provided the Benefit is not reduced below $150 per month, The benefit is payable for a period of 24 months.
3,	Bridge Survivor I ncome Benefit
Payable to the spouse of a deceased employee in the amount of $350 per month to be reduced by any Statutory Benefit receivable,
The Survivor must have been at least age 47 at the date of the death of Ithe employee and must have exhausted the Benjefits payable under the Transition Survivor income Benefit. The amount of Benefit will be reduced by any Survivor's or Disability Benefit payable under the Canada Pension Plan in effect as of October 19,1977.
Payments cease upon dbath, remarriage or upon attainment of the age that old age security benefits become payable, othelr than on a needs basis, under Federal or Provincial Legislation.
4.	Weekly Indemnity Benefits
Payable from the first day of accident or hospital confinement, or from the pighth day of sickness.
Weekly Indemnityshallnptbe payable for disability resultingfrom bodily injjry orsicknessfor which the employee is notundefthe care of a physician.
Periods of disability due tb the same cause will be
considered the same period of disability unless separated by return to full time work for at least two weeks. Periods of qisability due to different
causes will be considered different periods of disability if separated by return to full time work.
114
The benefit payable will be $350.00 per week.
5,	Hospital, Surgical and Medicjal Benefits
I
Basic hospital, surgical andjtiedical expense benefits, as well as supplementation to the semi-private level are prov'idedthroqgh the Ontario Health Insurance Plan and Great West Life.
Additional benefits which are presently supplied under Great West Life Extebded Health Plan are outlined below:
. Ambulance Services
, Drugs for which a medical elector’s prescription is required.
. Private nursing care by a Registered Nurse registered in Ontario (who is not# relative).
, Physiotherapy and out-patient diagnosis provided in hospital, when not covered by the Ontario Health Insurance Plan.
. Upto$10 a day for care in a licensed private hospital up to 120 days.
. The cost of special remedial appliances and artificial limbs.
. Blood and specialized treatments such as radium and radioisotopes.
. Hearing aids on the written prescription of a medical doctorto a maximum of $400 in all.
. Eyeglasses, up to a total amount shown below in any period of twenty-four consecutive months, when provided on the written prescription of a
115
medical doctor or optometrist (but not the cost of the eye examination). ;Thiscoverage does not include eyeglasses required for cosmetic purposes only, sunglasses or safety glasses.
Effective May
1,1994 -$140.00
Up to $200 in any period of twelve consecutive months, for services of a registered clinical psychologist.	I
Under certain conditions, the services of a registered masseur, up to $7 [per treatment, for a maximum of twelve treatments during any period of twelve consecutivemonths.
. Under certain conditions, the services of a regularly qualified Speech THterapist, to a maximum of $200 during any period of twelve consecutive months.	1
Increased benefits for mbdical services performed outside the Province qf Ontario, when a subscriber or dependents arje travelling.
6,	Eligibility, LayoffandTenjnination
An employee hired after the effective date of the Health and Life Insurer!1® Plan will be eligible for benefits on the first da/ °f the second month following the month in whic'1 he/she is hired, providing he/she is actively ^ffiployed on the working day coincidentwith orfollowingthat date.
An employee who is ls|id off and is eligible for Supplemental Unemployment Benefits will continue to receive benefits during such layoff up to a maximum period of six months. When these benefits are exhausted, the employee may purchase
the benefits, at his/her oWn expense, at the prevailing group rates for an Additional period of 12 months.
An employee who is on layoff and is not eligible for Supplemental Unemployment Benefits will have his/her coverage cohtinued in accordance with the provisions of the Health and Life Insurance Agreement in effect on the date of his/her layoff.
He/she will also be granted the opportunity to purchase the benefits, at grou|s rate for an additional period of 12 months.
Injury or Illness-An employee who isabsentfrom work because of sickness or bodily injury shall continue to jbe eligible for benefits during the period in which he/she accumulates seniority under the provisions of the Collective Bargaining Agreement.
Benefits under this Plan terminate automatically for an employee and his/(ier dependents when his/her employment is pemjianently terminated.
However, employees who retire at age 65 and receive normal Pension Benefits, will continue to receive coverage for Hospital, Medical, Great West Life Extended Hedlh Care Benefits and Blue Cross Dental Plan as outlined in the Agreement, as well as the Insurance Benefits for pensioners described in the Health and Life Agreement.
7.	Basic dental coverage is provided through the Blue Cross Dental Plan Noj 9 or Managed Dental Care Plan No. 47. Eligibility for coverage is the same as outlined in No. 6 above except in the case of layoff. An employee who is laid off may, at his/her option, retain coverage through the
117
Group Plan at his/her own expense for as long as he/she would be eligible for Company and/or self paid coverage under othir plans outlined in No. 6 above.
In general terms oie plai following services as sh and his/her eligible depam
ns cover the cost of the own for each employee idents:
PLANS PLAN 47
.Examinations& Consultations .X-Rays
.Diagnostic Services .Cleaning & Polishing .Fillings
.Surgical Services Root Canal Treatment .Treatmentof Gum Diseas .Dentures .Crowns & Bridges .Overall Annual Maximum .Orthodontic Services .Orthodontic Lifetime Max. ,
100% 100% 100%	100%
100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 50%	75%
50%	75%
none $1,500 not included 50% none $1.000
11
SUPPLEMENTALUNEMPLOYMENT benefits PLAN
1.	Who is eligible for Benefits?
Any employee of Gates (panada Inc., in the Bargaining Unit, with one or more years of service, who is laid off because of a reduction in production requirements.
2.	What is a Credit Unit?
A Credit Unit is a term of reference which has no fixed value in either time or money, butisa means of determiningduration of benefits,
3,	How do we get Credit Units?
A Credit Unit is credited to an employee on the basis of 1/2 Credit Unit for each work week for which an employee draws ppy, up to a maximum of 208 Credit Unitsas provided in the Agreement.
4,	How do we apply for Benefit^?
You must report in person to the designated Company location during eafch week of lay off for which you make application for benefits.
5.	How much is the Benefit?
(a) An amount which, wherl added to the applicant’s Unemployment Insurance Benefit and for other compensation for such!week, will equal 80% of his/her weekly straight time pay including C.O.L.A., based on 40 hours!
(b) Providing, however, that such benefit shall not exceed $70.00 plus $1.50 for each of not more
119
than 4 dependents, for any week in which he/she is ineligible for an Unemployment Insurance Benefit.
6.	Are there any deductions from the Benefit?
Yes. The Company is required to deduct from any benefit payment any amount required for Union Membership dues, or by Federal, Provincial or Municipal Government^ as payment for Taxes or otherwise.	i
7,	How long do Supplementary Unemployment Benefitscontinue? i
i
The number of benefitQyments you may receive varies with the regulariPof your employment prior to lay off, your senioriy, and the amount in the Trust Fund at the timey]ou apply for benefit.
8,	Howdo I qualify for a short work week benefit?
!
(a)	You must have 1 yeir seniority.
(b)	If you are not offered 40 hours work in a regu-
larly scheduled weekyqu may be eligible for short work week benefits.	'
9,	What isthe amount of sihort WorkWeek Benefit?
If you qualify for a Shoft Work Week Benefit, the scheduled Short Work Week Benefit payment will be based at 80% of yoipr average hourly earnings for all hourslessthan <^0, if eligible. Ifyou qualify for an unscheduled! Short Work Week Benefit, the payment will be baseq on the same method of calculation.
1^0
SEPARATION PA' MENT PLAN
The separation payment pli 1 exists in conjunction with the agreement on supp smental unemployment benefits.
The purpose of this plan is l ments to certain employee! continuous period for at least
In order to qualify for this be have had at least two years he/she was laid off, and m lished procedural requiremer ify for benefit under this plai or has received a severance ment plan.
The amount of separation p employee's seniority, eamir commuted value of vested p«
permit lump sum pay-placed on layoff for a wo years.
efit the employee must of seniority at the time st comply with estab-i. Ha/she will notqual-if he/she is eligible for award under the retire-
yment is keyed to the is and reduced by the ision benefits.
An applicant for a separation payment will have his/her seniority and all rights pertaining thereto, except for vested pension b nefits, cancelled as of the date of his/her applicatio
121
C.L.A. INDEX
A
Agreement	•	Duration and Termination
•	Printing
•	SeparateAgreements Incorporated
Amendments	•	MutualAgreement
Arbitration	•	Board Jurisdiction
-	Decisions
-	Expenses
•	Procedure
Attendance Available Openings
ft
Bargaining Committee
BargainingUnit • Defined • Divisions - Work
Bereavement Leave Bid Restrictions
Bulletin Boards
£
Call in Pay
Clean-upAllowance
C.O.LA
CompanyBenefitTransfer (C.B.T.) Cost Standards
Q
Defective Stock Definitions
DerogatoryNotatlons
Discharge
Discipline-UnionRepresentatlon
Discrimination
Clause
13.01
11.05
11.09
11.06
6.05
8.06 8.07
8,03 Step 4
11.02 9.17
6.01
1.01
0.02(a)
11.10
10.02
9.03(b)
9.03(c)
9.03(e)
11.03
6,06
4.03
5,27
5,12
5.02(a)
5.14(d)
5.01 9.16(a) 9.16(b)
11.08
8.10
11.01
11.00
2.01
2.03
126
Page
66
63
64 63 37 37 37 36 62 56
34
3
34
64
58
43
43
45
62
24
6
19
11
8
12
7
55
55
63
36
61
63
3
3
Displacement • Defined
• and Layoff Procedure
9.16(b)	65
9.06	47
E
Experimental Work	5,12	11
E
Failure to Qualify	9.03(e)	45
a
Grievance - Cost Standards
•	Investigations
•	Policy
■	Precederrtvalue
■	Procedure
•	Settlement authority
8.14	39
8.11	38
8.15	41
8.13	39
8.03	35
8.12	39
Guarantees
5.14	12
H
Health and Safety	11.04	62
Holiday • Payment	6.03	22
* Paymentfor work on	6.04	23
• Qualifying	6.04	23
• Scheduling	6,04	23
Hours of Work	4.01	5
1
Inexperienced Crew Member Injury	. Payment
Interference Times Interim Wfege Increases International Time Study Eglneer
5,23(a) (b)	16
5,18	14
5.02(d)	8
5,27	19
5.08	9
>1
Job	■ Content Change
■ Postings
- Transfers
5.22	16
9.03(a)	42
9.03(d)	44
9,19	57
Jury Duty
10.04	59
L
Layoff	• Defined
- Notice • Procedure
9.16(a)	55
9,12	52
9.06	47
127
Lead Hands
Leave of Absence- Bereavement
•	Jury Duty
•	Personal
•	UnionBusinesa
LocKOut	-Unlawful
Long Training Jobs
11.11
10,02
10.04
10.03
10.05
10.06
3.03 9.06{l)
U
MachineCycle Time Malfunctioning Equipment Management Rights
Materials	- ProcessingforStruck Firm
Mathematical Errors Mechanical Oowntime Meetings	* Company/Union
5.02(b)
5.14(c)
11.01
3,02
5.05(a)
5.14(a)
11.07
64
56
59
59
60 60
5
49
8
12
61
4
e
12
63
Q
Option to Leave Work Overtime	-Agreement
- Wined
•	Exclusions
•	Holidays
•	Notification
•	Offset
•	Review of Records
•	Sundays
5,13	12
6.10(a)	25
6,01	22
6,02	22
6.04	23
6.08	25
6.07	25
6.10(c)	30
6.05	24
e
P*y	• cheques
- Progression
Payments	* CalledAway By Employer
•	Cali in
•	Report In
Picket Lines
Prescribed NonStandardProcedures Prior Satisfactory Service Probationary	-JobBlds
•	Period
5.17	13
5,25	17
5.21	16
6,06	24
5,15	12
3.02	4
5.14(e)	12
9.06(g)(z)	49
9.04	46
9.01	41
a
Qualify	-Failure to
Qualification lor Guarantees
9.03(e)	45
5.26	18
126
A
RecallRIghts
Refusal lo Work Report In Pay Rest Periods
£
Satisfactory Effort-Defined • Required
Schedule A	-Incorporated
Seff RequestedTransfers Seniority	- Accumulation of
* Establishmentof -Groups
-	Lists
-	Loss of
-	Super
Shift	■ Preference
• Premium
Short Schedule Slowdown Standard Data
Standard Operational Procedures (S.O.P) Stewards	-Appointment
Strike	- Unlawful
Suspensions
I
Time	• Cards
-	Limits
*	Use of Employee's
Total Earnings -Defined Training	-Guarantees
•	Other than Replacement
-	Replacement Transfers fronVto Bargaining Unit
y
Union	-Activity
- Dues
9.08
9.09
3.01 5.15
4.02
5.01
5.14
5.28
9.18
9.09
9.15
10.02
9.01 9.05
9.02
9.10
9.11 9.14 9.20
5.16 5.13
3.01 5.02(c) 5.19 8.02(b)
3.01 8.10
5.24
8.08
5.06
7.02
5.23
9.13
2.02
12.02
12.03
12.04
50
51
12
7
12
22
56 51 54 58
41 47
42
51
52 54
57 13 12 4 9
15
34
4
38
17
37
9
32
16
11
16
52
3
65
65
66
129
Methods Engineer Security
U9e of Employee's Time
5.09	9
12.01	65
5.06	O
Y
Vacans,	■ Posting Procedure
Vacation
Entitlement Limitation Payment* Regular
*	Minimum
*	Termination
*	Scheduling
9.03(a)	42
9.03(d)	44
7.01	31
7.01	31
7.01	31
7.06	33
7.03	32
7.04	33
W			
wages	• Schedule 'A'i ncorporated	5.26	18
Wailing for Stack		5.14(b)	12
Working	- Day Defined	11.12	64
	- Hours	4.01	5
130