INDEX
Page
Collective Labour Agreement ................................. 4 - 38
Life Insurance and Welfare Benefit Plan
F1 an	............... ••• , ,,  ..................... 39	54
Plan on Supplemental Unemployment
Benefit Plan .............................................55 - 85
Pension and Severance Award
F .1 .an	. "  .......... ...............................86 - 104
X#
COLLECT l VE LABOUR AGREEMEN'f SUBJECT INDEX
Section
•	UN
•	MR
Absence before and after a Holiday ....
Accumulation Seniority ....... ........
Address, Change of, Affecting Seniority
Arbitration Procedure ..................
Average Earnings, Calculation of ...„•.
Bereavement Pay ........................
Cal 1- in Pay . ...................
Delay Time ..... ... ..... . . . u... ...... ...
Determination of Departmental Seniority
after Transfer ......ll«..............
Oicaharge for Cause ................... .
Disputed Standard . ............
Employees covered by Agreement • • ..... .. Exceptions to Holiday Pay Qualifications
Experimental Work and Pay ..............
Failure to Report for Work After Recall
Functions of Management ...... .....
Grievance Procedure ..... . ,..,. „
Hal idays — Paid ....................
Hours of Work .......................
Illness Before or After Paid Holiday
Injury at Work .• ..................
Job Posting .........................
Jury Duty ........ ..................
Key Operations ••. ...........
Lay-Of f .......... .................
Leave of Absence ...................
Leave of Absence - Seniority ........
Loss of Seniority Rights ...........
Maternity Leave ...........
Negotiating Committee ...............
n
• U tl u
• ••.
.	II	H	II	11	M	•»
«	«	h	■	«	II	n
5.01 7.03 ?• .1.7
,04,3.12
6.06
6.09
4 • 02 ( B) 6 .. 03
7
n u N n • a H u
,05,7.07 ':;. 02 6.14
1

6.12,
0.1 5. 01 6.07 7.17 ,9.01 3.04
t< a • . .
IIUMnUHUMUn
..........5 .. C> .1
M
N U I	II	U II	■ II . I II 11	a	M M	N U
UUMIIMiinMI'MIlM ««nMN ...	9	H111111i«IIItHII»	HU
5.01
4.01 5.031(b)
(d),6.08 7.20 6. .10 7,14
7,
7,
15
21
7 .. 03
7.04 7.21(e) 3.0 2
ii
u
H
II
11
II
II II


II II
II U M

Section
n n ti II rr
Negotiating Procedure ......
Night Shift Premiums .,.....
Overtime Pay ............. .
Designated Holidays ........
Pase to Enter Department ...
Payment for Stoppage of Work Payment for Waiting Time • ••
Personal Complaint ..........
Probationary Period.........
Recal l Procedure ...........'
Reduction in Time Standards Report-In Pay ......
Rest Periods ... . . . . ... . . ,, .. ....
Retroactive Pay ~ Time Standards..........
~ Unjust Discharge .....
Seniority • . . . . • • . .....»...» . ...
Records ... .«... . . ... .. .... ........ . . . .
Shift Premiums ................ , ■■ . »». ....
Stoppage of Work ...............•.... • •..
Strike .......................... .......
Temporary Lay-off .......................
Time! Standards .....
Transfers
-Employee Request .. .
-Lack of Work „.„,.,,.
-Seniority ..........
Trial Period, New Standard
Union Dues .............. . .
Vacation Policy . . . . .. ... .
Waiting Time ...........
II	•	II	II	IlUVUlllNIU
.	N	.. _.	...	*	.	.
M u N n V
M»NUII*II*H m m .	* . i<a«H
UIIMMIIII*-IIII
m a u • (i
II w w M « a m „
. .	It
It M II
I. .. II H
II
II
ii a
II
it
II ..


3.01,3.04
4.04
4.02
5.01
3.18
6.05
6.03
3.12
7.02 7.lb
6.13 6 .. 04
4.05 6. 14
3.19 7.01,7.21
7.09
4.04 3.13-6.O5
3.13
7.13
6.12-6.16
7.19 6.02 7.05-7.07 6.1.2
2 .. 01--2.10 0 .. 01-8.09 6.03

x
Cj.i.
pi
2.06 All present employees, new employees and employees transferred into the bargaining unit on or after the effective date of this Agreement shall have their membership dues deducted from their wages by signing the authorization for deduction form as provided in Section 2.10. The authorization farm for* deduction of dues which has been signed by present employees in the bargaining unit under the provisions of all previous Collective Agreements between the parties shall be authorization for the Company to deduct membership dues in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement.
2.07	The authorization forms for deduction of dues which have been, or which may be, executed shall be irrevocable for the duration of this Collective Agreement and any extension or renewal thereof, and if the} termination af thim agreement and any extension or renewal thereof is followed by the execution of a new Agreement, these authorizations shall be deemed to be automatically renewed for the duration of such new Agreement. Any authorization shall cease to be effective upon termination of employment, or upon transfer to an occupation outside the bargaining unit.
2.08 On the individual employee's first pay day of each month, or in the case of a new employee the first pay day in the month following employment, the Paymaster shall make deductions from the wages of the employee in accordance with authorizations then in his hands, and shall forward such deductions ta the Union within one week thereafter, together with a list of employees from whose wages dues have bean deducted.
2.09 It is the responsibility of the Union to notify the Company from time to time of changes in the? amount of Union dues, not later than the! 25th of any calendar month. Changes so notified shall be effective on the first pay day of the following month.
2.10	The authorization referred to in Section 2.06 above mhall be completed in triplicate on forms supplied by the Company. The original shall be retained by the Company and one copy retained by the employee and the other by the Union,
The following form of authorization shall be used.

BECKERS LAV-TECH INC•, Kitchener Authorization fir Deduction of Union Dues
Na me !

I, the undersigned employee, hereby authorize BECKERS LAY-TECH INC., Kitchener, to deduct from wages owing me, and the Trustee of the S.U.B. Fund to deduct from any Supplemental Unemployment Benefits payable to me from the S.U.B. Fund, commencing with my first pay in the month of
•....... and subsequently from my first pay in each month the amount of
first month's Dues, rejoining Dues or monthly Dues, as applicable, and as determined by Local Union No. 67, United Rubber, Cork, Linoleum and Plastic Workers of America in accordance with the U.R.C.L. & P.W. of A. constitution - the same to be remitted by the Company to the Union.
This authorization shall continue in effect for the duration of the present Collective Agreement and any extension or renewal thereof; and if termination of the present Collective Agreement or extension or renewal thereof is followed by the execution of a new Collective Agreement this authorization shall continue in effect for the duration of the new Collective Agreement and any extension or renewal thereof; and shall be irrevocable during such period or periods ..
AUK. ....... n II ti ii. ....... II II If II ...... II ....... ............ a...u. .........
S i g I (,ed

II a • II
ii a It u
u
u
Witness ..............

Address .................. 11 « 11 ...
Clock No
2.11	The Union shall indemnify and save the Company and the Trustee of the Supplemental Unemployment Benefit Fund harmless from any claims, suits, judgements, attachments and from any other form of liability as a result uf the Company making any deductions in accordance with the foregoing authorizations and assignments, and the Union. will make refunds directly to all employees from whom a wrongful deduction was made.
ARTICLE III NEGOTIATING PROCEDURE
3.01	Both parties agree to meet promptly to discuss and n oti.ate any dispute er grievance which may arise and every effort shall b made mutually to settle such matters as quickly as possible.
-7-
3.02	A Plant Negotiating Committee not to exceed five (5) Union members who are regular employees of the Company and who have at least, one year's seniority shall be selected by the Union. The Company shall be informed by the Union of the personnel of this Committee.
3.03	The Union shall keep the Company informed of these members in all departments who are authorized to represent the Union in dealing with the Area Ma.nager.
NEGOTIATING AND GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
3.04	The following procedure shall be followed in negotiations for the settlement of disputes or grievances on the part cf the employees!
Step 1 - Any employee who has a complaint as an individual shall, with, without, or through his steward, who may call in the chief steward, discuss; the matter1 with the Area Manager in order to reach a settlement, any negotiations started with the steward may be continued with him.
Step 2 - Failing settlement through the Area Manager, the complaint shall be referred in writing by the Chief Steward to the Plant Manager. A •ec isicin at this step must be reached within three normal working days of receipt of the written statement of the grievance, unless time is extended for further investigation by mutual consent.
Step 3 - Failing settlement through the Plant Manager, the Plant Negotiating Committee shall submit the written statement of the grievance to the Human Resources Manager and a meeting shall be held with the negotiating committee at a time mutually agreed upon within two full normal working days from receipt of the written statement of the grievance. A written decision at this Step must be reached within three normal working days after thrn conclusion of the meeting.
Step 4 -• Failing settlement, under- the above-? procedure, the Plant Negotiating Committeo shall meet with a Management Committee and/or the Vice-President Manufacturing within two full normal working days, if possible. A written decision will be rendered within 5 normal working days after the conclusion of the meeting(s) of this step 4. It is understood that an International Representative of the U.R.C.L. & P.W.A. may participate in this step.
It is agreed and understood that the time limits set out in Stap 2, Step 3 and Step 4 may be extended by mutual agreement in writing and signed by both Parties hereto.
Step 5 - Each of the parties hereto agrees that any grievance with respect to a misinterpretation of this Agreement which has not been settled after being properly carried through all previous steps of the grievance procedure contained in the abave paragraphs of this Agreement shall be referred to a Board of Arbitration at tho written request of either of the parties hereto, provided that such a written request is made within 35 days of the completion of the grievance procedure-
Such Board shall be composed of one person appointed by the Company, one person appointed by the Union, both of whom shall choose and agree to a third person to act as Chairperson, but in the event that the persons chosen by the Company and the Union fai1 to choose a third person within 7 normal working days, the Minister of Labour' for the Province of Ontario shall be asked to appoint a person as Chairperson.
3.05	In cases of Arbitration concerning the discharge or suspension of an employee, a single Arbitrator will be substituted for a Board of Arbitration, as provided for in this Article III, if requested by either the? Union or the Company ..
In the cases of Arbitration concerning other than the discharge or suspension of an employee, q single Arbitrator may be substituted for the Bear'd of Arbitration, as provided for .in this Article II I upon mutual agreement in writing between the Union and the Company.
In the cases of substitution of a single Arbitrator for a Board of Arbitration, as provided above, all other applicable provisions of this Article III will continue to apply sc far as they arm relevant.
3.06	The Company and the Union shall within three normal working days from the date of appointment of the Arbitrators sign a Joint stipulation or failing this, separate stipulations of the dispute on the question which is to be arbitrated.. Such stipulation or stipulations,
Sihall contain a statement, of thi;i issue? in dispute and in addition, any include a brief statement of the position of either party on the question at issue.
3.07	Unless otherwise mutually agreed in writing by the parties hereto, the Arbitration hearings shall begin within seven normal working days from the date of filing the stipulation with the Board. The jurisdiction of the Arbitration Board shall be limited to a decision on the dispute or question set forth in the stipulation. The Arbitration Board shall not have any Jurisdiction to change, modify or disregard any of the provisions of this Agreement, nor substitute any new provisions of this Agreement, nur substitute any new provision in lieu thereof, nor to give any decision inconsistent with the terms and provisions of this Agreement..
-9-
3.0S On a question pertaining to "Time Standards" a representative of a reputable Industrial Engineering Finn tsrn:i11 be retained as chairman and whoever is so selected shall be required to make or have made a thorough time study of the standard disputed and to report to tha Board the information obtained from his study. No additional person shall be employed by the chair-man to make studies without the consent of the Board Member-si representing both parties. Both members of the Board may make, or have made, such time studies as they may require far submission to the board.
3.09	The Arbitration Board shall not have authority to decide a question invol virig a general wage level demand,
3.10	All decisions of the Board of Arbitration arrived at in accordance with the provisions r.if this Agreement shal1 be final and binding on all parties concerned.
3.11	Each of the parties hereto shall bear the expenses of the Arbitrator appointed by it and the parties shall Jointly and equally bear the expense of the Chairman and other expenses incurred.
3.12	Nothing contained in this article shall prohibit an employee from presenting a personal complaint directly to the Management.
3.13	Both parties of this Agreement undertake to abide by the Labour Relations Act of the Province of Ontario to the effect that no employer who is a party to a Collective Agreement shall declare or cause a lock-out and no employee, bound thereby, shall go on strike during the term of this Agreement. There shall be no slow-down or stoppage of work causing interference with production during the term of this Agreement.
In the event of any strike, slow-down, sit-down, or concerted stoppage of work, either- partial or complete, the Union shall, at the request of the Company, forthwith .inform the Company as to whether or not. the same was authorized by the Union.
COMPANY AND UNION MEETINGS
3.14	The> Company agrees to pay for- meetings with the Union for the purposes outlined herein. Such payment shal1 be made at the average hourly earnings of the employee attending the meeting,
{.l) One (1) meeting each month of the Plant. and Management
Negotiating Committee, not to exceed two and a half (2 1/2) hours, may be held and paid for by the Company, at a time and a date to be mutually agreed upon. The Plant Negotiating Committee shal l designate in advance the monthly meeting for which the members in attendance shall be paid.
“10-
(b)	The Company will pay for grievance meetings attended by two or members designated by the Union in connection with the processing of formal grievances at Step 2, Step 3 and Step 4 of the grievance procedure.
(c)	The Company will pay the Plant Negotiating Committee as defined in Section 3.02 abcive, for all time spent at any meeting called by the! Company.
3.15	The Company shall pay the Negotiating Committee Q.O hours for" every meeting during negotiations for the renewal of t:h<-:1 Agreements between the Company and the Union at which an Officer of the Ministry of Labour is not in attendance. Such time will be paid for at a straight time Average Hourly Earnings to a maximum of eight hours per day, per Committee member.
3 .. 16 The company will pay the Local Union President, cir in his absence from work the Local Union Acting President, for 50'1. of the? hours. s;pent in the conduct of legitimate Local Union matters concerning the administration of the Collective Labour Agreement. Such payment in total will not exceed twenty (20) hours in any one week. Payment will be made at the level of the highest skilled trades job in the plant, plus any applicable interim increase whether boxed or unboxed, or his average hourly earnings, whichever is the higher. In addition to the above, the Union President, or- Acting President, shall also be eligible for payment as provided in Section 3.13 of Article III, of the Collective Labour Agreement, including payment for Grievance mastings held after his regular shift.
The Local Union President will retain seniority on h.is Job during the term of his office.
3.17	Should it be necessary for any member of the Plant Negotiating Committee to enter any department in connection with his duties an the Committee, he shall first obtain permission from his Area Manager or the Plant Manager who wi 11 issue the necessary pass. The paas shal 1 then be s;;hown to thi& Area Manager or' department head of the' department whic:h it is necessary to t:snter before contacting any employee. Such permission shall not be withheld unreasonably.
3.18	A permanent pass shall be issued to the Chief Steward and to the President of the Union for their sola use during their' term ,:,f office in the carrying out at their duties as Union Officials. It ii;; understood that biwfore leaving thoir work, t.he Chief Steward or the! President of thm Union shall first obtain permission from his Area Manager- and wi 11 contact a Management Representat..iv before conducting Union business in another department.
-1.1-
I n any
the	that an employee is	to discip
record that is	more
the	discipline will riot be considered.
linary action, the date
It is understood that the hours of work pei'" day and week on certain operations may be flexible to meet operating requirements, but any decision regarding changes in hours will be discussed with the Plant Negotiating Committee and if a conclusion is not reached, the subject matter can be negotiated and 4B hours notification given to the employees concerned. The Company will supply the Union with tho current list of hours of work.
4.02	All hours worked in excess of normal as; defined In Section 4.0l. of this Article shall be considered am overtime. Overtime at the rate of cine and one half times regular rates af pay will be paid as followsc
(a) for" all hours worked in excess of eight (8) hours in any twenty-four (24) hour period.
(b)	For all hours worked from 7:00 a.m. Saturday to 12 midnight Saturday and at this rate only.
(c)	Payment for all hours worked from midnight Saturday to midnight Sunday shall be at double the regular rate of pay, and at this rate only.
(d) A scheduled shift commencing at 11:00 p.m. Sunday shall be paid at the rate of double time from UsOO p.m. to 12 midnight and for hours
'Pollowing at thra rate of time and one half ..
(o) An employl*? called in at the Company's request for work not continuous with his (scheduled shift:, will be paid for a minimum of four (4) hours at one and one hal f timwm his regular1	te of pay for the hours
worked, whichever is greater. If thm call-in is during the hours when overtime is payable at the double time rate under Section 4.02 (c), then payment far the four ( 4) hours minimum or for- hours worked, as stipulated above, will be at the double time rate.
The minimums will not apply when such unscheduled work forms a continuous period with the employee's regularly scheduled working hours and commences within one and one half (1 1/2) hours of his regularly scheduled working hours.
(f)	An employee reporting for work on his regular shift if sent home before the close of his regular shift, and required to report back for work within the twenty-four (24) hour period, shall be paid time and one half for all hours worked on call back, prior to thm start of his next regular shift.
(g) No overtime will bii! paid in the- following cases:
(i) Under conditions applying t:o the regular- shift. changes.
•-13-
shift premium will be paid each hour” of work far -the	i na cco rda n c e with the sche d u I e as des c r i b e d below
IT the	d u r i n ga n y ana d a y	over more tha n one shi ft,
the premium paid	be that which applicable to the shift during
which the greater number	are worked. Should the condition exist
wherein such hours are equally divided between	the higher
premium will apply to all hours	that day.
If an	four	aver an a shift where higher
premium applicable, the higher premium will apply to	overtime
Effective PR
Afternoons
t o

(o) In the case of an employee who is absent on either the day before or the day subsequent to a designated holiday because of personal illness or injury. Such illness or injury to be verified by a doctor's certificate or advice immediately after commencement of the shift to the Area Manager, guard's office. First Aid or Human Resources Department. The Company reserves the right to verify such report through the nurse's personal visit to the ill or injured employee or by other means.
(f)	In the case of a Union Official who in the performance of his Union duties is required to be absent from work and is therefore unable to complete his regular scheduled shift before or after a designated holiday. In such case he shall obtain permission, in advance, from his Area Manager for such absence.
(g)	In the case of ar, employee who is absent on the day previous or subsequent to a designated holiday by reason of answering a call for, or serving as a Juror or subpoenaed crown witness.
(h) An employee who would otherwise qualify for a designated holiday, except for having been laid off within five (5) normal working days prior to such holiday shall receive payment for such designated holiday.
5.02	If any such designated holiday falls cm Saturday or Sunday it shall be observed on Monday. If two successive designated holidays fall on a Friday, Saturday, Sunday or Monday, they will be observed on Friday and Monday.
5.03	If the designated holidays as specified above are worked, then payment shall be made at the rata of two (2) times, plus holiday pay and at this rate only. If the hours worked do not constitute a normal shift, straight time will be paid for the balance of such normal shift, but in any event, payment shall be made for not less than four (4) hours work at two (2) times, plus holiday pay.
• 04 I f one* of the designated holidays specified above falls within the vacation period of an employee otherwise eligible for such holiday pay, he shall be paid for suc:h holiday. If ths employee so requests, he will be granted an additional day off work, without pay, at a time mutually agreeable between the employee and the Company if arranged prior to the scheduled vacation period. This section shall not apply to the December 24th, Christmas Day and New Year's Day designated holidays, or the floater holiday should it be observed on or about the Christmas -New Year's period.
5.05 For purposes of this Agreement, the time constituting a designated holiday period shall be considered as starting at 7:00 a.m. on the designated holiday and ending at 7s00 a.m. on the day after such hoiliday.
- 16-
ARTICLE VI
WAGES - SPECIAL CONDITIONS
6.01	When'work is available on an employee's regular Job and he is requested to do other work, he will be paid at the rate earned on the temporary job or his average hourly earned rate, whichever is higher.
6.02	When an employee is transferred from his regular job to another job because of lack of work, or at hi.i::; own request: or because he no longer" has the qualifications,; for- his regular job, he shall be paid the rate earned on the job he is transferred to.
6.03
( a) When due to stork or operating conditions, <An employee is requested by the Company to remain on the premises, a full-time a1lowance will be made for all delay*; amounting to six minutes or over. Payment for waiting and delay time when no work is done will be at the individual's average hourly earned rate, but not exceeding the (90%) level of the occupational wage scale for the Job. However, such employee may be required to accept work which he is able and equipped to perform other than his regular assignment during such periods and shall then be paid ,at the rate earned for the temporary operation or his average hourly earned rate, whichever is the higher.
( b) In case of machinery or power" breakdown or- other causes beyond the
Company's control causing an interruption in production, the employee shall be paid at his average hourly earned rate, but not exceeding the (90X) level of the occupational wage scale of the job for all delays amounting to si:-. (6) minutos or over during the period he is required to remain on the premises. If the employee is required to accept work which he is able and equipped to perform ether than his regular assignment during such period, the method of payment shall be as set forth in Section 6.03 (.:1).
6.04	An employee reporting far work who has not been
notified not to report, and who iw not provided with alternative work, or an employee who has been notified to report, for- work and is not provided with alternative work, shall be paid a minimum of four (4) hours time, at rates as specified for delay time in Section 6.03 above, but this is not to apply i.n cases of machinery or power breakdown or other causes.. beyond the Company's con tro1.
6.05	No payment shall be made under Section 6.03 and 6.04 above
for	lost time as the	r-esult	of	a	stoppage	of	work	by or through the	Union
or- i ts members.
-17-
CALCULATION OF AVERAGE HOURL.Y EARN I MBS
6.06	(a) For thtl' purpose* of payment c>f average hourly earned rate under Section 5.01, 6.10 the employee's average hourly earned rate shall be calculated by dividing the straight-time earnings, exclusive of all premiumsp and exclusive of earnings an odd jobs during vacation shut down and exclusive of earnings for all overtime and exclusive of earnings for all waiting and delay time paid under Section 6.03, by the straight-time hours worked in the last week in which the employee has worked at least 24 straight-time hours.
(b)	For	all	othejr purposes	of	payment of	average	hourly	earned	rate
the following method of calculation exclusive of all premiums shall apply.
Ci) Hours qualifying for payment of average hourly earned rate shall be paid at the employee's most recent week's earned efficiency an that job.
(ii)	If he has not been on that job in the previous four (4) week's earned efficiency of tho regular experienced employee on that job.
(iii)	If nc employee has worked on that job in the previous four (4) weeks, he shall be paid at the rate as calculated in 6.06 (a.).
(t:) In the case of an employee on a daywork job, his average hourly earned rate shall be that rate as calculated in 6.06 (a),
6.07	Experimental work and the taking of inventory shall b(.! paid for at the average hourly earnings of the employee sc engaged.
6.08	An employee injured at work shall be paid at average hourly earnings for necessary time lost from his regular hours of work tor treatment in the factory first. aid center. An employee injured at work .and referred by the Company for out of plant treatment or examination by a Physician or a Hospital shall be paid at average hourly earnings for necessary time lost from h.i.s regular shift for the first authorized
tr<;*« tmer, t •
-■18-
BEREAVEMENT
his average hourly straight time earnings, exclusive of any premiums for thf.i period of such service? ..
Should an employee receive a call for jury duty or is a subpoenaed Cr-own Wi tnesa, which may interfere with a previciusl y scheduled vacation period, he shall immediately inform the Company in writing of such cal 1 for Jury duty or as a subpoenaed Crown Witness and of his desire tc.i have his vacation period rescheduled and the Company upon receipt of such written request will reschedule his vacation period ..
6.11	The Company agrees to provide the Union with the current Wage Schedule and Job Classifications which form part of the Collective Labour Agreement.
-20'
TIME STANDARDS
6.12	The determination af time standards is a management function and al 1 new standards shall be given a reasonable trial by employees affected. A trial of two (2) weeks shall be considered as reasonable. New standards and changes of time standards shal1 be explained by the Area Manager with an Industrial Engineer to the operators concerned, and the departmental representatives. Data used in the determination of standards shal l be available for reference . The new or- changed 'standards shal 1 be posted in the department and shall become effective the first shift twenty-four- (24) hours after posting except where standards are revised as ,i resul t: of change in spec:i f ica. tion but no change in method, or1 where
e?leme?nt:es are eliminated from an established standard, in which case the revised standard shall become effective at the start of the first shift after posting.
6.13	There shall be no reduction in time standards, without a corresponding change in method, operation, layout, or product specification, or unless mutually agreed to.
6.14 Any disputed standard shall be negotiated through procedure established in Article III, If any adjustment is made as a result of negotiations, any retroactive payment adjustment will be made for a period of three (3) weeks prior to the filing of grievance or to the date of the setting of the Standard, whichever date shall be the later, It is further agreed that, where there is a. standard .in dispute, the Union may, at the fourth step of the grievance procedure, with the approval of the Company, use the services of a U..R.W. Time
Study Engineer who may observe and/or study the job in dispute.
6.15	No assistance shall be given to an employee while such employee is being studied for the purpose of setting time standards, nor shall a study be taken of « supervisor for this purpose.
6.16	(a) When an operation covered by time standards becomes subject to a change in method, operation, layout or product specification including the introduction of new models of an existing product and therefore goes off-standard, employees will be paid their average hourly earned rate calculated as .in Section 6.06 (b) for hours worked on such off-standard operation, subject to Cb) and (c:) below.
( b) An estimated temporary standard may be issued as soon as possible and employees w.i 11 them be paid (according to the efficiency earned on such estimated temporary standard.
(c)	Within thirty (30) production days from the date of issue of an
estimated temporary standard, but: excluding any shut-down periods affecting Hm operation, a regular time standard will bF..' .issued.
-2.1-
ARTICL.E VII !3EI\| I OR ITY
7.0.1. Seniority is preference or priority by length of service with definite rights qualifying employees for employment when work is available, the purpose of which is to provide a declared policy of work security mem.;ured by length of service.
7.02	An employee shall be considered a probationary employee and shall have no seniority rights until he shall have completed 3 months continuous employment or if such time is interrupted by lay-off excluding temporary lay-offs as defined in Section 7.13, then 4 months of actual employment within 12 months of his original hiring date. Upon completion of the probationary period specified above, all time worked plum properly approved absences, except, the times spent on lay-off, shal 1 be cumulative in computing seniority and establishing seniority rights.
7.03	Seniority shall be accumulated by time worked in the employ of the Company, plus time-’ lost in excess of six ((.:,) continuous months due to lay-off during slack periods or approved leaves a1 absence, except that in the case of leave of absence directly attributable to extenuating illness or injury, seniority may be accumulated up to an amount equivalent to the seniority of the employee at the start of such leave, but such accumulation during time lost may not exceed twelve (12) months, or except as provided for in Sectian 7.21 Cc), (d), (e) and (f) and in all instances seniority accumulated shall be credited to such employee upon his return to work.
An employee who has five (5) or more years' seniority, may accumulate up ttJ one (1) year seniority during lay-off or properly approved leave of absence as provided in Section 7.21. Seniority accumulated shall be crredi ted to such employee upon his return to i'4ork.
7.04 An employes shell l lose his senior! ty rights for- any of the following reasons#
(a)	Voluntary termination cf employment with the Company.
(b) Unauthorized absence exceeding 5 consecutive normal working days.
(c) Discharge, except as provided in Section 3.19 ..
(d)	Failure	to	return	to	work	•following lay-off	within	seven	(7) days
after the employee has been noti fied aw per- Section 7.17 of this article.
(e) Failure to return to work an expiration of leave of absence c:>r any extension thereof.
--22-
( f) f.\fter continuous lay-off of cme year fc::ir those employees having less them one Cl) year'si seniority and after two (2) years for those having one (1) year but less than five (5) years' seniority and after five (5) years for those with five (5) years' seniority an cl over.
7.05(a) When an employee with seniority i.s transferred to another
department cir is recalled from lay-off to a department other than the department from which he was laid off, he will continue to accumulate seniority in his former department far a period of three months and upon completion of three months satisfactory service in the new department him seniority, including accumulation, will bE* transferred to the new department.
(b)	Whan an employee is displaced to another department under Section
7.15	his seniority shall be established in the new department immediately on transfer, soley to prevent displacement from the department by employees with less plant seniority. Similarly, Job seniority shall bet established in t:he new department but. only when the employee has attained the qualifications required to maintain the production standard of the Job. Such employee will, however, be eligible for recall to his former department as provide! for- .i.n ;31=’c::ti.on 7.07.
7.06(a) When an employee with seniority is transferred to another job
within his department, other than the job from which he was laid off, he will continue to accumulate seniority on his former job for u period of three months and upon completion of three months -sa tisfactory service on his new job, his tseniority including accumulation, will be transferred to the new job.
( b) When an employee is displaced to another Job tinder Section 7.15, his seniority shall be established on the new Job on transfer, solely to prevent his displacement from the job by employees with less plant seniority but only if the employee has attained the qualifications required to maintain the production standard of the job. Such employee will, however, be eligible for recall to his former job as provided for in Section 7.07.
7.07	When due to decreased production in one job or department, an employee is transferred to a different job or department then that employee shall be subject to recall, in accordance with seniority rules, ass f cj 1 lows :
(i) If the employee has btaen in the? new job or- department for less then three.-? months, hm must return to the job or department from which he warn displaced.
(ii)	If the employee has been in the new job or department for three months or more, he may return to his former job or department cm 1 y thrrjugIi appl.ication for transfer.
-23".
7.08 When lay-offs taka place, the Company shall, whenever possible give employees affected seven (7) days notice of such lay-off.
An employee who desires tci leave the employment-, of the* Company shall, whenever possible notify the Area Manager concerned seven (7) days in advance.
7.09	A seniority list shall be posted in each department of thm plant showing the accumulated seniority status of employees in that department. This list shall be revised at least once per year. A c:opy of all lists posted shall be given to the Union President. If requested by the Union or an individual employee, ths Company's service records shall be available for reference to this members of the Plant Negotiating Committee to the extent reasonably necessary to ascertain the accuracy of the seniority lists.
7.10	Employees who have given long and faithful service to the Company and who are unable to perform their regular work shall bei given preference an other work they are qualified to perform, at the prevailing rate of pay for sue h wc,rk •
7.11	An employee of the Company excluded from the bargaining unit,
may be transferred to a vacant job in the bar-gaining unit, provided he was. formerly in the bargaining unit, and will have plant service converted to plant seniority at the time of such transfer, except however, the period of time excluded 'from the bargaining unit shall be discounted in the determination o'f seniority. Such employee would also be eligible for previous seniority for which he may have been previously credited and may displace the least senior employee with less seniority than his own on hi.si former job.
7.1.2 "Qual 1 ficati ans" , "Cue lif led " and "satisfactory “service" as referred to in this Article shall be determined by the Company on the basis of such items as experience, competence, physical fitness, skill, knowledge, adaptability, efficiency, responsibility and integrity.
7.13 In the case of tempanary lay-off of employees* in a department or division for a period of up to but not exceeding two (2) weeks, such employees shall not be eligible ta displace employees of other departments or divisions during such period, except in the c:ase of lay-off extending over- one ( 1) week an employee wi th senior! ty can displ ace another employee who has no seniority, providing he has had previous satisfactory service on that Job.
-24-
7.14	Operators employed on jobs known as "Key Operations” shall
not be subject to lay-off other than on the basis of Job seniority. Such "Key Operations" shall be posted with departmental seniority lists
throughaut the plant.
7.15	LAY OFF PROCEDURE
In the event it becomes necessary to reduce the number of employees in a department for a period of time in excess of a period of a temporary reduction as stipulated in Section 7.13 the Company will, in determining which employees are to be laid off, recognize the principle of seniority in displacement of employees from a job, and lay-off will be in order of seniority of employees of the department and also subject to the limitations of key operations and qualifications, and according to the following procedures
(a)	A probationary employee who is displaced •from the job on which he is employed will be laid off, except that he may be placed on a vacant job for which he has the necessary qualifications.
(b)	An employee with seniority who isdisplaced from the job which h e is employed may:
(i) Displace the least senior employee, having less seniority
than his own, on the job on which he has seniority, provided ho has the qualifications required to maintain the production standard of that job, he may—
(ii) Displace the least senior employee having less seniority than his own, in the department in whic:h he has seniority, oi, a job for which he has the necessary qualifications. if he is the least senior employee in his department, he may--
(iii)Displace the least senior employee, having less seniority
than his own, in the plant, cm Job for which he has the necessary qualifications. If he is the least senior employee in the plant, he will ba laid off, except that he may be placed on a vacant job for which he has the necessary qu;alifications.
(c)	If an employee at the time of lay-off under the provision of paragraph (b) above, has satisfactory service on another job in his department or the plant, and has the qualifications required to maintain the production standard of that job, he may return to it and displace any employee with less seniority, provided he notifies the Company of his intentions within five (5) normal working days of hit; displacement.
(d)	When it is necessary to reduce the number of employees from a given job, Section 7.15 of the Collective Labour Agreement shall be» followed. Should two (2) or- man;.' employees have equal job seniority, the employee(s) to be laid off under this Section 7,15 shall be decided by lot.
-25—
7.16	RECALL PROCEDURE
(a)	Whenever it is necessary to recall employees who have been laid off, the order of recall will be general ly in the reverse order-to lay-offs according to the following procedure:
(i) If the vacancy to which an employee is to be recalled is on a key operation, those employees with previous satisfactory service on that operation, who have been laid off and retain seniority status, will be recalled in order of seniority.
(ii) Employee'll who have been laid off and retain seniority status, and have the necessary qualifications, will be recalled in order of seniority.
(b) No new employee,! shall be hired to fill vacancies until employees who have been laid off and retain seniority status and have the necessary qualifications to fill the vacancy have been recalled to work.
(c) When it is necessary to recal1 the number of employees to a given job, Section 7.16 of the Collective Labour Agreement shall be followed. Should two (2) or more employees have equal Job seniority, the employee(s) to be recalled under this Section 7.16 shall be decided by lot.
7.17	Employees are required to keep addresses up to date so they can be located whenever" production warrants rehiring. Employees who fail to do this and cannot be located when there is an opportunity to work shall lose their seniority.
An employee notified of recall must inform the Company of his intention to return, within three (3) normal working days, after notification by registered letter to the latest. address. Failure to notify of int.ent.ian to return will be interpreted as refusal to do so. If the employee desires to return to work, he must do so within seven (7) calendar- days .after- he has notified the Company of such intention. Failure to do so will result in complete loss of seniority.
In the event that an employee is unable to return to work due tci i J. 1 ness, injury or pregnancy, and so not.if ies the Company within seven ( 7) calendar days or notification at recall, hio seniority status shall be preserved during the? period of illness, injury or pregnancy as governed by Section 7.04 (f). Seniority status shall be forfeited following failure to report far work after' a second notification following recovery from illness, injury or- pregnancy. It is the employe»3’s obligation to notify the Company immediately upon recovery from such illness, injury or pregnancy ..
■26-
7.18	Any of th!.'.' provisions of the lay-off or recall procedure may be superseded by other arrangements, for legitimate reason®, when negotiated between the Company and the Plant Negotiating Committee.
7 • .19
(a)	An employee with ;;,t least: six months seniority who wishes t0 transfer from his job to another job or department in the bargaining unit shall make 1:1 written application in triplicate (one copy to be retained by the employee) stating the Job or department to which he desires to transfer. The application shall ba made through the employee's Area Manager who shall note on-the application the date and time that it is received and forward the application to the Human Resources Department. An employee shall not have more than one application pending. Such application shall be automatically cancelled after one year. Subject to the qualifications of the applicant, and the necessity of maintaining an officiant work force, the applicant with the most seniority will be transferred when a vacancy, which is not the result of lay-off, occurs. An employee transferred under this section shall not be eligible for a second transfer under this section for a period of six months from the date of transfer.
(b)	an employee who has been transferred to another job, as a result of application for transfer, is displaced from that job before the expiration of three (J) months, for any reaeon, will be returned to the jab on which he retains seniority, and w i 11 displace the least senior employee having less seniority then his own. If there is no one on that job with less seniority, hew ill be placed on the jab to which he is entitled under Section 7.15. Thereafter, he may immediately make application for transfer, nutwithstanding the limitation of Section 7.19 (a) above.
(c)	an employee,	has been transferred at his request is
unable, after a reasonable break-in period for the job, to attain the existing standards of quality and efficiency of the Job, (not to equal three (3) months in duration), he w i 11 be returned to the job an which he retains seniority. If for some reason he is unable to return to the job on which he retains seniority, he w i I I be placed on the job to which he i s entitled under Section 7,15. Thereafter, the employee sha.11 not be eligible far a second transfer except as provided in Section 7.19 (a) above.
7.ZO When a job vacancy occurs in the bargaining unit, the? information shall be posted «n the bulletin boards for fourty-eight (48) hours (two full working days exclusive of Saturday, Sunday or Holiday) excluding any subsequent vacancies, the applications received in answer to this notice and those filed previously with the Human Resources Department requesting transfer under Section 7.19 will be considered in filling the vacancy, subject to the qualifications as defined in Section 7.12, the most senior of these applicants! will be given the job.
■27-
L.EAVE OF ABSENCE
7.21 Leave of absence may be granted to csmployees with seniority status under certain conditions without loss of seniority privileges. Application for such leave shall be in writing and the employee shall be given written advice of the decision. Leave of absence may be granted under the following circumstances!
(a)	Leave of absence not exceeding three (3) months and subject to extension for pertads of three? (3) months, up to one (!) year -for employees with up to ten (10) years seniority and two (2) years for employees with ever ten (10) years seniority may be granted -far csxteriuating causes such as sickness, injury, bereavement, or serious personal necessity. Under- extreme circumstances, a request for a further extension of leave of absence by an employee and supported by the Union would receive consideration.
(b) Leave of absence not exceeding three* (3) months may be granted during slack periods, but those who are granted such leave must return to work within seven (7) days after notice of recall has been sent, in order t:o retain seniority standing.
(c)	Employees who are engaged in service with the Country's Armed Forces shall be considered on leave of absence and shall accumulate seniority during such service, in accordance with federal legislation.
(d)	A member cif the	Union may at the?	written request	of the Union, be
granted special	leave of absence	to engage in Union duties with
the United Rubber , Cork, Linoleum and Plastic Workers of Amer ic:a, Canadian Labour Congress, the Ontario Federation of Labour or Local 67, for r period not exceeding the term of this Agreement, subject to renewal. When leave? is granted -for this purpose, the members shall accumulate? their seniority during the full term of leave only if they return to active service with the Company on the expiration of the leave.
(e)	A female may be	granted leave of	absence between	the fourth and
fifth months of	pregnancy (or in	accordance with	the provisions
of the Employment Standards Act of Ontario) based on medical certification .. Within a four- (4) month period after childbirth sshe shall report to the Human Resources Department with a doctor's certificate stating date of birth of the child and dec l ar iny her physical fi t.ness for work. Subj ec: t to physical qualifications, she shall be entitled to return to work as provided for in subsection 7.21(g).
Seniority may be accumulated up tt) an amount equivalent to the seniority credited to the employee at the start of such leave, but not in BXCHS6 of twelve (12) months accumulation.
( f) An employee injured on the job, who subsequentl y becomes a
Workmen Compensation case, c:md .is placed on leave of almence,?, shall accumulate -seniority during f;;uc:h period.
(g) An employee who intends to return to work following an approved
leave of absence, or who needs to have such leave extended, shall report to the Human Resources Department at least three (3) normal working days prior to the expiry date of the leave, so that his return to work may be arranged.
Subject to physical qualifications, such employee will be entitled to return to the Job ho left. If his farmer’ job icj no langer available or if his seniority no longer qualifies him fcjr h.i.n farmer- Job, he will be given the job to which he would have been displaced had he been at work, if this can be readily established, or such other suitable job which is consistent with his seniority.
ARTICLE VIlI VACATIONS
8.01	Hourly rated employees of the Company who have accumulated one (1) er more years seniority as of June 30th of any year, shall be entitled to vacation with pay on the following basis.
(a) Employoes having one (1) year's ueniarity or" more as of June
30t.h, will receive two (2) weeks vacation with pay amounting to 4% of their earnings for the twelve (12) months period ending May
31st ..
( b) Employees h/aving five (5) years seniority or mure as of June
30th, will receive three (3) weeks vacation with pay amounting to 6X cf their earnings for the twelve (12) months period ending May
3lst.
(c:) Employees having twelve (12) years seniority or more as of June
MW	flay
31st ..
(d)	Employees having twenty (20) years seniority or mare as of June 30th, will receive five (5) weeks vacation with pay amounting to 10X of their earnings for the twelve (12) months period ending May 31st.
--29--
Employees having thirty (30) years seniority or mare as of June 30th, will receive five (5) weeks vacation with pay amounting to 12'Y. of their earnings far the twP-1ve (12) mcmths per-.iad ending May 3.1st.
(f)	An active f?mplayee who accumul.utes and is credited in the current calendar year, with five (5), twelve (12), twenty (20) or thirty (30) years seniority between June 30th and December 31st shall receive, after such seniority is credited, one additional weeks vacation with pay amounting ta 2X of his earnings for the twelve ( .1,2) months ending May 31st of the current year. At thei discretion of the Company, the additional weeks vacation may be granted prior to the date on which such seniority is credited, however, vacation pay paid in advance shall be deducted from the final pay if the employee c:easem to be actively employed or if employment is terminated for any reason prior to the qualification date. An employee who qualifies under this subsection after December 24th shall be granted vacatian for the remaining days of the year only,
8.02 Employees who have been hired prior' to June 30 th of any year bi.it have not accumulated at. least one (1.) years seniority shall be entitled to vacation with pay on the basis of 4X of their earnings for the period of their employment. The vacation shall be considered to be at the rate of one-half day for each full month of employment. In the event that a half day is calculated, it shall be rounded off ta a full day.
8.03 When an individual leaves the employ of the Company prior to the vacation date and ham qualified for vacation pay as outlined in Section
8.01	and 8.02, he shall be paid the amount of the vacation earned at the time of separation.
8.04	Employees who, when laid off for an indefinite period, receive their vacation pay and return to work during the vacation year will have the value of previously paid vacation pay deducted from their vacation pay as specified in Section 8.01 and 8.02 above.
8.05	The Company wi11 schedule a summer vacatian period of 2 weeks during the months of July ar August for all eligible employees and will designate this period at least 3 months .in advance. At t.he» same time the Campany will endeavour ta designate the third week of vacation for eligible employees. Vacation periods far employees eligible for a fourth, f ifth or sixth weak of vacation will be scheduled by th!:.' Company giving due consideration to production requirements and employee requests according to seniority. It is understood that the third, fourth, fifth and sixth weeks of vacation need not he granted together nor consecutively with the other two weeks. If the employee is unable to take his vacation for reasons af an approved leave of absence for sickness, injury or pregnancy, his vacation shall be rescheduled.
•-30-
#
16 Vacation pay shall be paid on the regular pay day immediately prior to the employees vacation.
8.07 In cases of emergency when it may be necessary to arrange for employee's to work during the fifth or sixth week of their vacation, such employees required to work any or all of these weeks shall be paid vacation pay at a later date, An employee may be requested to work during his fourth week of vacation and if he so agrees, he shall elect to reschedule his vacation.
0„08 When an employee with one (1) or more years seniority has been unable to work for a portion of the preceding vacation year because of verified sicknes»s, injury or pregnancy and for those reasons only, the vacation pay calculated in accordance with Article VIII is less than $339.00 for an employee in each week of vacation pay, the vacation pay will bro increased to the above minimum providing tho employee has worked three (3) months or more during the vacation year.
8.09 The following shall be included a& earnings for tho purpose of calculating vacation pay: Wages Paid, Overtime Premiums, Night Shift Premium, Vacation Pay paid in the preceding year, Designated Holiday Pay, Workers Compensation Payments for Lost: Time, Short Work Week Benef i t.s paid under the Supplemental Unemployment Benefit Plan, weekly indemnity paymen tm and 0.1-1. 1 • F'. Premiums which are regarded as income under the Income Tax Act.
ARTICLE IX
FLINCT IONS OF MANAGEMENT
9.01 The management of the plant and its direction of the working forces, including the right to hire, suspend or discharge for just cause, and the right to relieve employees of their duty because of lack of work or for other legitimate reasons, is vested exclusively in the Company. This right shall not be used to discriminate against any employee as an individual nor to violate the terms of this Agreement,
9.02	The Company reserves the right to discharge for just cause including but not restricted to the following: insubordination, chronic abscmce or- tardiness, continued unsatisfactory workmanship or dishonesty^
-31-
ARTICLE X l"II !3CELLANEOUS
10.01	Bulletin Boards with locks will be furnished by the Company where the Union may post notices relating to the following matters of business connected with Local 67. U.R.C.L. and P.W.
Ca) Union Meetings
(b)	Union Appointments and Elections Cc) Union Recreation and Social Affairs
10.02	Employees who are excluded from the bargaining unit shall net perform work which replaces production or maintenance employees on their regular Jobs and overtime, except in the event of an emergency, or for the purpose of training, taking inventory or experimental work.
10.03 Four inembers of the bargaining unit appointed by the Union and four members of management appointed by the Company shall constitute a Safety Committee and shall meet once per month for the purpose of promoting safety and accident prevention. Payment for time lost from regular hours to attend the monthly meeting will be at the employees average hourly earnings.
10.04	The Company agrees to contribute the sum of Fifty (90) per cent of the total cost toward the purchase of Company approved safety shoes for each eligible employee subject to the following terms and conditions:
1.	The fifty (50) per cent will be paid only to employees who have established seniority and who submit an authorized receipt certifying purchase of approved safety shoes. Probationary employees will be
r eimbursed 'fifty ( 50) per cent, towards safety shoes purchased at the time of hiring provided t:hey complete tha probationary period.
2.	Reimbursement will be made only once in any twelve month period for each eligible employee, with the first payment establishing the twelve month period for each individual employee, except as provided in paragraph 3 below.
3.	It is understood that employees regularly working in the Cement house or Compounding departments shall be eligible for a second pair within the twelve (122) month period as described above.
10.05	In accordance with the Ontario Labour Relations Act, the Life Insurance and Welfare Benefit Plan, Supplemental Unemployment Benefit Plan, Pension and Severance Award, Appendix "A" Interim Increasief,
Letters of Understanding #1 through #4, shal1 form part of the Collective Labour Agreement.
-3.2-
ARTICLE XI
DURAT I CJI\I OF AGREEMENT
11.01 Amendments: Amendments to this Agreement may br;. made by mutual consent. of both parties. Proposed amendments shall be submitted in writing by the party desiring a change, and negot iations thereon sha 11 start, within twenty (20) days of such notice. Durins the negotiations and thereafter, if no conclusion is reached, the provisions of this Agreement shall remain in effect.
11 .02 This Agreement shall become effectives as of _AfiC'Ud4S4_12Sfli=s:= jmd shall remain in fuUl force and effect in respect to all untllmldnlght:	d sha 11 continue .in ef feet the reaf ter
~7roll/eaTnn;oyaar7aF^rur1cnerperiods of one; (1) year unless either party g.i ves wr itten notice of termination or written notice of proposals for amendment to the other party prior to, but not more than three (3) months prior to the expiry date or any yearly period thereafter. In the event of written notice having been given by either party as provided herein, negotiations shall commence within fifteen (IS) days of receipt of such not. ice with a view to completing a new Agreement. Should such negotiations extend beyond the expiration date, this Agreement shall not expire, but shall continue in full force and effect in accordance with the Labour Relations Act of Ontario, or until a new Agreement is entered into by the parties, whichever date shall occur first.
.33^
Dated at Kitchener this 28th
day of June 1988
Signed on behalf of the parties hereto by their duly authorized representatives.
BECKERS LAV-TECH INC., Ki tchemer
D. HUTTON
8. BECKER
P. JOVANOVICH
Local Union No. 67, United Rubber, Cork, Linoleum and Plastic Workers of America.
J.D• FUHRMAN N. LEHMANN C .. NOBLE
CHARLES BARSONY Int. Rep.
-■34-
BECKf i LAY-TECH INC.
Bax 9027, 51 Breithaupt St., Kitchener, Ont. Canada N2G 4R9
March 21,1.988	TETTEn OF UNDERSTANDING #l
Mr. J,D. Fuhrman, President,
Local Union No. 67, U.R.C.L. and P.W. of A,, 141 King St. East, Kitchener, Ontario.
N2G 2KB
Dear Mr. Fuhrman:
This letter will serve to confirm the understanding reached between the parties during recent negotiations regarding heat relief for employees.
During the months of June, July, August and September an outside temperature check on Plant 1 property wlll be made by the Company and the Un Ion, starting at 9:00 a.m. and every four (4) hours thereafter. until 1 :00 a.m. Temperature checks will be made only on those days where the forec ast h I g h exc e e d s 80 degree s F •
When the outside temperature Is 80 degrees F or more, the following courses of a c t Ion w i 11 b e tak e n :
a)	If there is a reading of 85 degrees F or more. one addltlonal ten (10) minute break on each half of the shift-,, throughout the Plant,
b)	In addition to (a) above, extra relief operators will be given ta Miii and Banbury Operators, Farmers In Fibre Finishing. Feeders In Fibre Finishing and Pour Operators in R.I.M. Operations. This extra relief will be given whenever possible, up to a maximum of one ( 1) ten ( 10 ) minute break per hour.
c)	If there Is a temperature reading of at least 80 degrees F but less than 85 degrees F., the operations as specified In sub paragraph ( b) above, will be given addltlonal breaks as outllned In sub paragraph
(a)	above.
d)	Employees in the Plant who cannot tolerate the heat will , on an individual basIs , upon request , be issued a pass to I eave the Plant, and will not be required to see a Doctor, and/or make a hospital
visit.
Yours tru1y,
Peter Jovanovich Director - Human Resources
April 12, 1988
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #2
Mr. J.D. Fuhrman, President, Local Union No. 67,
U.R.C.L, and P,W. of A.,
141 King Street East, Kitchener, Ontario N28 2K8
Dear Mr. Fuhrman:
This letter will serve to c infirm the understanding reach between the parties during recent negotiations regarding plant overti	scheduling.
Whenever- overtime work is required on ;a daily basis, or for weekends and designated holidays, the overtime will be offered/scheduled in the following sequence.
1 To employee(s) by job classification on the line and shift the
overtime is scheduled. If any vacancies occur, they shall be filled as set out below,
2.	Employees brought forward, nt-ixt shi -ft.	by
3.	The most senior employae(s) overtime is scheduled.	in
'1 •	The most senior employee(s) (if possible).	in
5.	The most, senior employee(s) (if possible).	in
6.	The most senior- employee(s) possible).	in
job classification, on the liie from the t,e classification, on the shift the the classi f i<:ation, in the department the department with previous experience the? plant with previous experience (if
7. "Odd jobs” or- "open jobs" ( defined as jobs not held by any employee( s) for job seniority purposes) will be filled as follows:
(a) Most senior employee(s) on the shift the overtime is scheduled.
(b) Most senior smployee(s) in the department (if possible).
(c)	Most senior in the plant (if possible).
(d)	At the discretion of the Area Manager-.
-35(b)-
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #2 CON'T
GENERAL PftPVISIGNSs
1.	It is the responsibility of management to determine and schedule overtime hours and to contact the appropriate employees according to the sequence above.
2.	Any refusals of overtime will be recorded before proceeding through the sequence.
3.	Employees wi 11 not be ^scheduled to work more than twelve ( 12) continuous hours in any twenty-four (24) period.
4.	A vacation week shall start on Sunday and end on Saturday. Employees shall not be scheduled for hours during their vacation week(s).
5. No transfer' of offers Sihal 1 be agreed either between employees and employees or employees and management.
6. The tor m "if possible" is defined to mean that the* senior employee may not be able to be brought forward because of working the 11-7 shift and the scheduled overtime is on the 7-3 shift. However, this shall not prohibit an employee from working four (4.0) hours over on the next shift, if scheduled.
Yours truly,
Pmter Jovanovich,
Diroctar - Human Resources
rtpr.il jl2, jl9BS
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #3
Mr. J.D. Fuhrman, President, Local Union No. 67,
U.R.C.L. and P.W. of A.,
141 King St., East, Kitchener, Ontario.
N20 2K8	’
Dear Mr. Fuhrman:
This letter will serve to confirm the understanding reached between the parties during recent negotiations regarding bereavement pay for smployeei:•
In the event an employee i55 absent from work for three (3) consecutive days during hiss regular work week, to attend a funeral under the provisions stipulated in Section 6.09, of the C.L. A., and the funeral day is held on Saturday of that week, the employee will be paid for three (3) consecutive days, notwithstanding the provisions of Section 6.09.
Yours trul y ,
P .. Jovanovich
Director -- Human Resources
June 22, 1'108
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #4
Mr. J.D. Fuhrman, President, Local Union No. 67,
U.R.C.L. and P.W. of A.,
141 King Street East, Kitchener, Ontario.
N213 2K8
Dear' Mr. Fuhrman:
This le;ttc-3r w.i 11 serve t.a cr.onf irm the understand .ing reached between the parties during recent negotiations concerning the early retirement option after 30 years of credited service and age 55.
It is understood and agreed that the Company shall withhold three cents ( $.03) per hour from the silent C.0.L..A., and from each of the f inst eleven (11) interim increases which will be calculated and paid as of the pay period commencing on July 24, 1988, up to and including the pay period commencing January 20, 1991.
It is further understood and agreed that if any of the first eleven (11) interim increases, as described above, produces less than three-centsi ($.03) per hour, the Company shall absorb any such loss during any such
period.
Effective with the pay period commencing on April 21, 1991, the thirty-six cents ($.36) per hour, plus the regular interim increase shall be folded into the wage rates as specified in Appendix "A", Interim Increase of the C . L II Am
Yours truly,
Peter Jovanovich Director   Human Resources
APPENDIX "A" OF COLLECT!VE LABOUR AGREEMENT INTERIM INCREASE
1.	The amount of the interim increase shall be calculated and
recalculated as provided below on the basis of the Consumer Price
Index published by Statistics Canada (1971 « 100) and hereinafter
referred to as the C.P.I.
2.	First. Year of Agreement
(a) The; base calculation: the? average C.P,I. for the months c:f February, March and April 1988.
(b)	The first adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay period commencing July 24, 1988. It will reflect one cent ($.01) per hour for each full .26 points that the average C.P.I. for the months of April, May and June 1988 exceeds the base for calculation.
(c)	The second adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay period commencing October 23, 1988. It wil1 reflect one cent.
( $, 01) per hour for- each full .26 points that the average C.P.I. for the months of July, August, and September 1988 exceeds the base for calculation.
(d)	The third adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay period commencing January 22, 1989. It will reflect one cent ($.01) per hour far each full .26 pointsi that the? average C.P.I. for the? months of October, November and Decamber 1988 exceeds the base fur calculation.
(j) The fourth adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay pe?riod commencing April 23, 1989. It will reflect one cent ($.. 01) pm- hour few eac:h full .26 points that the average .C.P.I. for the months of January, February and March 1989 exceeds the base for calculation. This adjustment will be folded into the Occupational and Day Work Rates on April 23, 1989 as specified hetrein.
3.	Second Vear of Agreement
(a) The base for calculations the average C.P.I. for- the months tif February, March and April 1999.
( b) The? first adjustment wi 11 be calculated and paid as of thro pay period commencing July 23, 1989. It will reflect one cent ($,01) per hour for each full .26 points that the average C.P.I. for the months of Apri1, May and June 1989 exceeds the for- calculation.
-36
go
) The second adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay period commencing October 22, 1989. It will reflect one cent ($.01) per hour for each full .26 points that the average C.P.I. for the months of July, August and September 1999 exceeds the.' base for' calculation.
(d)	The third adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay period commencing January 21, 1990. It will reflect one cent ($.01) per hour for each full .26 points that the average C.P.I. far the months of October, November and December 1989 exceeds the base for calculation.
(e)	The fourth adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay period commencing April 22, 1990. It will reflect one cent ($.01) per hour for each full .26 points that average C.P.I.
•for the months of January „ February and March 1990 exceeds the base for calculation. This adjustment will be folded into the Occupational and Day Work Rates on April 22, 1990 as specified herein.
4.	Third Year of Agreement
(a)	The base for calculation: the average C.P.I. far the months of February, March and April 1990.
(b)	The first adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay period commencing July 22, 1990. It will ref lect one cent ($.01) per hour for each full .26 points that the average C.P.I, for the months of April, May and June 1990 exceeds the base for calculation.
(c)	The second adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay period commencing October' 21, 1990. It will reflect one cent ($.OD per hour' for each full .26 points that the >sverage C.P.I. for the months of July, August and September 1990 exceeds the base for ca1c:ulation.
(d)	The third adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay period commencing January 20, 1991. It will reflect one cent ($.01) per hour for each full .26 points that the average
C »p.l • for the mcm ths of Oc tober, Novembs?r and December 1990 exceeds the? base for calculation.
(e)	The fourth adjustment w i 11 be calculated and paid as of the pay period commencing April 21, 1991. It will reflect one cent (S.01) per hour far each full .26 paints that the average C.P.I. for the months of January, February and March 1991 exceeds the base for calculation. This adjustment will be folded into the Occupational and Day Work Rates an April 21, 1991 as specified herein.
•37-
5.	? Interim Increase w.i.11 be considered as earnings butt will be boj-ced 'separately from other- wage payments on the employee's time card.
6.	In the event Statistics Canada does not issue the appropriate Consumer Price Index on or before thm date on which an adjustment is to be calculated, any adjustment required will be made at the beginning of the first pay period following receipt of the Index.
7.	No adjustments retroactive ar otherwise, shall be made due to any revision which may later be made in any published Consumer Price Index by Statistics Canada..
B. Continuation of the Interim adjustments is dependent upon the
availability of the off icia 1 {Statistics, Canada Consumer Price Index calculated on the same basis and in the same form as that published ■far Apri :i. .1.9SS.
9.	Each adjustment specified in the Interim Increase will replace the previous adjustment, if any, in its entirety, except the fourth
adj ustment in the first ye>ar of the Agreement, the fourth adjustment in the second year of the Agreement, and the fourth adjustment in the third year of the Agreement, will be folded-in as specified herein.
10.	Method of Fold-In
Ca) Daywork Rates - the total amount of Interim Increase to be* folded-in as specified herein will be unboxed and added to maximum of the day work rates.
( b) Incentive Rates - the total amount of Interim Increase to be
folded-in as specified herein will be unboxed and added to all incentive Occupational Rates Scales at the 100% level.