00732 (02)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
ARTICLE 1
Purpose..................................  5
ARTICLE 2
Interpretation............................ 7
ARTICLE 3
Scope of Agreement....................... 15
ARTICLE 4
Working Hours............................ 17
ARTICLE 5
Rates of Pay............................. 21
ARTICLE 6
Seniority................................ 41
ARTICLE 7
Holidays................................. 63
ARTICLE 8
Vacation................................. 65
ARTICLE 9
Security of the association.............. 71
ARTICLE 10
Grievance and arbitration procedure...... 73
ARTICLE 11
Miscellaneous........................... 85
ARTICLE 12
Duration of the collective labour agreement.. 89 LETTERS OF AGREEMENT #1 ■ #16.............. 91
APPENDIX “A” APPENDIX “B” APPENDIX “C” APPENDIX “D” APPENDIX “E” APPENDIX “F”
109
?
117
119
?
119
3
COLLECTIVE LABOUR AGREEMENT
This Collective Labour Agreement is made and entered into this 27th day of April, 1986, between Goodyear Canada Inc., with respect to certain employees of its Quebec City Factory, hereinafter referred to as the “Employer” and the Local 149 of the Union hereinafter referred to the Goodyear Quebec Employee’s Association, Local 149.
ARTICLE 1 PURPOSE
1.01	It is the mutual desire ofithe contracting parties to promote cooperation and harmony and to provide an amicable method of settling any dispute or grievance that might arise between them.
1.02	They agree to work in harmonious relationship and undertake:
a)	That there shall be no discrimination, interference, restraint or coercion by or on behalf of the Employer regarding any employees covered by this Collective Labour Agreement because of membership or non-membership in the Association.
b)	That the Association its members or its agents, shall not intimidate or coerce said employees into membership in the Association.
1.03	Furthermore, they recognize that individuals are not always perfect in their human relationships and they both pledgethat there will be no undue criticism of the Association or of the Employer.
5
ARTICLE 2 INTERPRETATION
2.01	In this collective labour agreement and in its application, unless the context requires otherwise, the followingwords and expressions will have the meaning hereinafter given to them.
a)	“Employer” means GOODYEAR CANADA INC., Quebec City Factory, Quebec, P.Q.
b)	“Employee” means and includes each and every hourly-rated and/oi) piecework employee of the Employer except the following: office personnel, factory clerkS, supervisors and those of higher rank, production controllers, watchmen and constable, laboratory personnel and those belonging to the administrative staff.
c)	“Holiday” meansarjd includesonly the days as enumerated on the next page. The observance day of any holiday may be changed by mutual consent between the Employer and the Association.
d)	“Qualification” means the ability to perform the operation to which an employee is assigned in a competent manner and to produce the same standard of quantity of work as if usually obtained from such operation; “to qualify” or “qualified” shall have A like meaning.
7
LIST OF HOLIDAYS
1987 • 1988
1988 ■ 1989
1986 ■ 1987
Good Friday Easter Monday St-John Baptiste Confederation Day Labour Day Thanksgiving Christmas Eve Christmas New Years Eve New Years Floating Holiday ***
June 24, 1986 July 1, 1986 September 1, 1986 October 13, 1986 DecemberTM, T988 December 25, 1986 December 31, 1986 January 1, 1987 June 23, 1986
April 17, 1987 April 20, 1987 June 24, 1987 July 1, 1987 September 1, 1987 October 12, 1987 December 24, 1987 December 25, 1987 December 31, 1987 January 1, 1988
April 1, 1988 April 4, 1988 June 24, 1988 July 1, 1988 September 1, 1988 October 10, 1988 DecemBer24,4988 December 25, 1988 December 31, 1988 January 1, 1989
***Tobe determined by the G.Q.E.A. and the Company
e)	“Layoff” means the termination of work of an employee by the Employer for an indefinite period caused by the decision of the employer to reduce or eliminate the work upon which the employee was engaged; “laid off” shall have the like meaning.
f)	“Seniority” means “Factory seniority”.
g)	“Factory Seniority” means the status that an employee aquires after he has worked for the Employer for three (3) cumulative months in the factory and six (6) months in the maintenance department in any twenty-four (24) month period.
h)	“Classified job seniority” meansthe status that an employee with Factory seniority acquired after he has worked continuously for the Employer for three (3) consecutive months or for three (3) cumulative months in any thirty-six (36) month period on the same classified job for the following jobs:
—	Banbury operator
—	Service man (banbury)
—	Mill man (banbury)
—	Tuber operator
—	Slug Cutter operator
—	Injection presses operator
—	Coulter Punch
All otherjobs will be fora period of two (2)months for every period of thirtynsix (36) months at the same classified job
i)	“Probationer” means an employee without Factory seniority.
j)	“Probationary period” means the time during which the probationer works for the Employer.
11
k)	“Base rate” shall mean the maximum rate per hourfor all day-work operations and the rate per hour upon which incentive rates are calculated.
l)“Average hourly earnings” as used in this Agreement, is defined as the employee’s hourly earnings exclusive of all premiums. The average hourly earnings for piece-workers shall be determined from the latest pay sheet available to the Employer.
m)	“Incentive rates” means rates of pay calculated on the basis of time standards, whereby the employee’s hourly earnings may fluctuate with his output per hour.
n)	The term “vacatidn” shall not include a vacation caused by any of the following:
1)When an employfee is absent by reason of sickness or acciddnt,
2)	When an employee is on vacation,
3)	When an employee is on an authorized leave of absence,
4)	When a qualified employee is in ajayoff status except as provided in section (3) of this Collective Agreement.
2.02	Inthis Collective LabourAgreement, wherever the MASCULIN appears, it shall be construed as meaning any employee, male or female.
13
ARTICLE 3
SCOPE OF AGREEMENT
3.01	The terms of this Collective Labour Agreement shall apply to all employees and the Employer recognizesthe Association as the sole bargaining agent for said employees for the duration of this Collective Agreement. The Association received its accreditation certificate October 24, 1985.
3.02	a) The management of the Factory and the direction of the working force, including the right to plan, direct and contiiol factory operations; to maintain the discipline and proficiency of employees, and to require the employees to observe Factory rulefe and regulations, to determine in all cases the qualifications of the employee, to hire, layoff or relieve, classify, transfer the employees from their duties, to promote, to demote and discipline or discharge employees, for just cause, are to be the sole right and function of the Employer.
b)	The products to be manufactured, the location of factories, the schedules of production, the methods, processes and means of manufacturing, are vested solely in the Employer.
c)	The parties agree that the foregoing enumeration of the management's rights shall not be deemed to exclude other functions not specifically set forth, the Employer therefore retaining all rights not otherwise specifically covered by the Collective Labour Agreement which are inherent to his usual power of management.
15
(d) The exercise of the foregoing rights and prerogativesshall not conflict with any provisions of the Collective Labour Agreement. The Employer agrees not to discriminate against any employee in the exercise of such managements rights.
3.03	a) The Association shall not cause, authorize or sanction, and no employee shall take part in any strike, slow-down, stoppage or interruption of work of any kind during the term of this Collective Labour Agreement.
b) The Employer shall pot cause or sanction a lock-out during the term pf this Collective Labour Agreement.
3.04	In the event that any of the provisions of this Collective Labour Agreement are found to be in conflict with any valid arid applicable Federal or Provincial law now existing, or hereinafter enacted, it is agreed that such law shall supersede the conflicting provisions without in any way affecting the remainder of the Collective Labour Agreement.
ARTICLE 4 HOURS OF WORK
4.01	The normal weekly schedule of the Factory is based on a five-day (5) work week; the weekly schedule may, however, toe based on a five and one half (5 112) or six (6)lday week if warranted by production requirements or the availability of man-power, as determined by the Employer; the Employer will assign tp each employee his regular shift hours, according to his type of work and the number of shifts per day, as follows:
17
All Departments
Steady day shift:	07H00 to 15H30
Rotating shifts:	07H00 to 15H30
15H30 to 24H00 00H01 to 07H00
The week beginning at 24H00 Sundays.
4.02	“Overtimework” means all time worked in excess of an employee's regular shift hours in any twenty-four (24) hour period from the time he is required to start work; and also means all work done by the end of the second shift Friday until the start of the third shift Monday. (From Friday midnight until Sunday midnight ■ 48 hours)
Overtime work does not include:
(a)	Time worked by employees substituting for one another at their own request, with the approbation of their imrjnediate superior.
(b)	A change of an employee's working hours at his own request,
(c)	The regular shift change,
(d)	The time spent on employee committee work or similar activity. However, such lost time on an employee's regular shift will be considered part of his regular shift hours in determining work.
4.03	An employee shall not loose the opportunity to work his available regular shift hours because he has done overtime work.
19
4.04	An employee
(a)	required to work two (2) hours or more past his regular finishing time will be given a meal ticket valued at $3.00 to purchase a meal. An additional ticket will be given for each four (4) hours of overtime thereafter, or
(b)	called in to work four (4) hours earlier, or
(c)	required to report to yvork without a previous notice allowing for sufficient time to eat or prepare a meal, shall be, provided with a meal ticket valued at $3.00 to purchase a meal. This provision shall not apply to weekend work when an employee works the dame length of shift he does on weekdays and when he has been notified of such work previously.
4.05	The Employer will provide adequate relief when and where necessary.
4.06	A ten minute rest period shall be granted on each half of an employee's shift and shall betaken in accordance with a time sqhedule prepared by the department foreman.
ARTICLE 5 RATES OF' PAY
5.01 The base rate shall be the ones in effect at the date hereof and shall remain in effect for the duration of this Collective Labour Agreement; however, any individual base rate requiring an adjustment, because of phange in the working conditions, may be adjusted.
21
The Association is to be notified of such changes and will also be given in witting the old and new rates of such changes.
5.02 The minimum hiring-in rate in effect for the duration of this Collective Labour Agreement for all employees other than the maintenance: $6.50, real rate excluding “BOXED.”
5.03	When transferring qualified employee or employees with seniority, the minimum transfer rate in effect for the duration of this Collective Labour Agreement for all employees other than the maintenance: $6.80 excluding “BOXED”.
5.04	(a) When an incentive worker on his regular
operation is assigned to work for which incentive rates are not available, he shall be paid at the rate of 95% of his average hourly earnings or the base rate of his regularop'eration if higher, except where the incentive worker has not attained a base rate level, in which case he will be paid at the rate of his average Hourly earnings. All the foregoing to be conditional upon a satisfactory effort being made.
(b)	The following crews: Tubers, Banbury working on the I.O.D. andithe die tests only, shall be paid their average hourly earnings or base rate, if higher, providing a satisfactory effort is made.
(c)When there is insufficient work on an employee’s regular operation to complete a full shift’s work and the employee is temporarily
23
assignment to another operation he shall be paid 95% of his average hourly earnings, the base rate of his regular operation, the base rate of the temporary assignment or his incentive earnings whichever is the greatest provided a satisfactory effort is made.
(d)	Any employee on the Banbury operation, assigned to Banbury Cflean-up, specifically authorized by the foreman, shall receive 95% of his average hourly earnings, providing he has made a satisfactory effort. This provision, however, does not apply to employees on the Banbury operation when'they are assigned to cleaning other than the Banbury (clean-up).
5.05	All overtime work shall be paid at the rate of time-and-one-half, except for the period from 12:00 midnight Saturday to 12:00 midnight Sunday, when double time will be paid. Overtime premium shall not, however, be paid twice for the same hours worked.
i.e. An employee called in two (2) hours early will receive two (2) hours at time-and-one-half and straight time for all regular shift hours.
5.06	Employees on second and third shift operations shall be granted premium payment as follows:
For all hours worked on the regularly scheduled second shift - $0.25 per hours,
For all hours worked on the regularly scheduled third shift - $0.30 per hour.
5.07	In order to give the equivalent of eight (8) hours of pay to an employee working on a seven-hour (7) shift, he shall be paid an extra shift allowance of fifteen (15) percent of his earnings on the seven-hour (7) shift.
25
5.07	In order to give the equivalent of eight (8) hours of pay to an employee working on a seven-hour (7) shift, he shall be paid an extra shift allowance of fifteen (15) percent of his earnings on the seven-hour (7) shift.
(If an employee coming in late is allowed to start work, the fifteen percent (15%) will still apply.)
5.08	When an employee has not been notified of a change in his starting tiryie and comes to work at his scheduled time, or| if he reports for work on his scheduled shift anc| is required not to work on such shift by reason, of some mechanical breakdown in the Factory; due to conditionsthat are beyond the employee's control, he shall receive for that day a remuneration equal to four (4) hours of pay to be paid at 85% of his average hourly earnings or his base rate, whichever isthe higher, provided that the conditions which caused such mechanical! breakdown are within the employer's control, however, if he is requested to do so by the Employer, such employee shall completd a minimum of four (4) hours of such available work as the Employer may assign to him, and if the employee refuses to do such work, he shall forfeit such remuneration of four (4) hours of pay. Furthermore, the employee shall not be entitled to this remuneration of 'four (4) hours of pay, referred to above, if the mechanical breakdown is due to a cause or condition outside of the Employer's control or due to stoppages or interruption of work of any kind brought about in any department of the Faptory which affects any employees or group of eijiployees as a result of the action of some other employee or group of employees.
27
5.09	An employee not previously scheduled to work who is called to work and consequently works in an emergency on Suhday or on a holiday, or at any time between ohe hour after he has left work and two hours before his next scheduled shift, shall receive either four (4) hours at his regular rate of pay or tegular rate of pay plus premium pay applicable for actual time worked whichever is the greater, this provision does not apply, however, to an employee called in early on his scheduled shift.
5.10	If the Employer terrjiporarily assigns an employee for the benefit of the Employer to another operation whil^ there is still work on the employee's regulaij operation, he will be paid his average hourly earnings, provided he has made a satisfactory effort. If the operation he is placed on is at a higher rate of pay, he will be paid the higher rate Of pay if he is a qualified employee on his new operation.
5.11	(a) The establishment of incentive rates shall
be derived from time and motion studies and calculated on base rates.
(b)	It is agreed that ncj) change in established piece-work rates or standards will be made unless changes are made in job content such as method, construction, compound, group arrangement, job description, layout, equipment, material or 'material specifications which either increase or decrease the time necessary to produce a unit or production. Any change in established piece-work rates or standards will be made commensurate with the
29
degree of change in : job content. Where a change in piece-work rate occurs, the Association is to be furnished jWith the following:
Operation Number Date of Change Old Piece-work Rates New Piece-work Rates
(c)	Obvious matherrjatical errors in rate calculations and obvious inaccuracies relating to job content made at the time the rate was computed will be corrected, unless more than ninety (90) days have elapsed since the rate was effective, in which case corrections may be made only by mutual agreement.
(d)	Changes in established piece-work rates or standards will be m$de as soon as possible following a change in job content, unless otherwise mutually agreed. It is understood that where an employee complies with the job specifications and increases his efficiency through his own skill and effort, it shall not be interpreted as being a| change in job content under the provisions of this section.
(e)	It is agreed that the Employer shall base its piece-work rates or Standards on the full use of an employee's time which consists of full productive time on the job less reasonable allowance.
(f)	In the event a grievance arises out of an incentive rate, the department’s Association
31
representative shall haVe right to observe the operation and to attefid at the time study department to inspect alii cards and sheets which show its timing; in isuch a dispute, the Association may hire ani engineer competent to conduct time and motiomstudies to work with the Employer's time study department.
5.12	If settlement of the grievance results in an adjustment in the contested incentive rate, said adjustment shall be mage retroactive up to the effective date of the ratp but not to exceed one hundred eighty (180) consecutive calendar days.
5.13	Each member of the Bargaining Committee who assists a scheduled meeting with the Employer, shall be paid at the rate of his average hourly earnings according to tihe existanoe practice. (See agreement letter #1)
5.14	An employee will be paid average hourly earnings for time lost on his operation if he is called away from same by his Employer. This does not apply, however, in cases wher^ disciplinary action is warranted.
5.15	Time lost on a shift by tan employee owing to breakdown, stock shorttage, defective stock or any other reason beyotad the employee’s but within the Employer’s control, shall be paid at 85% of his average hourly earnings or his base rate whichever is the higher, but only if the employee are adversely affected. However, in the case of a breakdown beyond the control of both the Employer and the ertiployee, the employee shall be paid at 85% pf his average hourly earnings or his base rate whichever is the higher, for all time lost on his shift during the period he is required by the Empioyer to remain on the job.
33
5.16	An employee who is injured in the factory and is treated in the factory or is sent to an outside hospital shall be paid his average hourly earnings or his base rate the highest one, for the time lost on his shift. If the employee is sent home by a doctor or the hospital staff, he will be paid for the balance of that particular shift of his average hourly earnings or his base rate, the highest one.
5.17	Where men or women arje concerned, itisagreed that the principle of equal pay for equal work be observed for comparable quality and quantity of work and for such wor^t as is identical with or substantially the same as that performed by men or women on the same operation.
5.18	No time card or time sh^et shall be changed until the employee concerned has been informed of changes to be made.
5.19	No supervisor shall enhance the piecework earnings of an employee by performing any part of his work; this provision will not prohibit the training of new employees or the handling of emergency situations.
5.20	When an employee's earnings are adversely affected by breaking, in an inexperienced employee in crew or pool operations, the wages of such employees may,i upon recommendations of supervision, be increased to average hourly earnings and paid from crew or pool earnings, provided a satisfactory] effort has been made.
The inexperienced employee will be paid the remainder of the crew or pool earnings or the hiring rate, whichever of the three is the greatest.
35
5.21	An employee who is required to serve on a jury or receives a ‘subpoena” as a witness, shall be paid the difference between the amount for such services and his average hourly earnings, if on piecework, or his current hourly rate, if on daywork, for the time lost from his regularly scheduled work shift by reason of such service, subject to the following provisions:
(a)	Employees must notify their supervisor within twenty-four (24) hours after reception of notice of selection for jury or as witness,
(b)	Any employee called for jury duty and who is temporarily excused from attendance at Court must report for work if a reasonable period of time remains to be worked in his shift,
(c)	Employeesselected for jury duty or witness who are on otherthan first shift, shall be assigned to the first shift for those days they are required to serve as jurors or witrjess,
(d)	In order to be eligible for such payment, the employee must furnish a written statement from the appropriate public official showing the date and time served and the amount of pay received.
5.22	An employee on the active payroll of the Employer wdo is excused by the Employer solely because of Ihe death and the funeral of a mother, father, mother-in-law, father-in-law, son, daughter, brother, sister, husband, wife, grandparent, grandchild, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, spouse’s brother-in-law, spouse's grandparents or a dependant who lives in the household, will be compensated at his average hourly earnings for time lost by him from his regular working
39
schedule by reason of Isuch absence, up to a maximum of three (3)woitking days for each death and funeral.
These provisions will apply when it is necessary for the employee to ntiake arrangements for and/or attend the funeral.
ARTICLE 6 SENIORITY
6.01	When an employee has acquired factory seniority, the latter shah then be calculated as from the date of his fir?t working day with the Employer.
6.02	The probationer shall be a temporary employee for all the time of his probationary period; his employment may be terminated at any time without reference to seniority and in no event shall the Employer havejany obligation to rehire him or offer him work. Th|e length of time worked by a probationer before his layoff, shall, on rehiring, be credited to h|m after he has acquired seniority, if he has not bden laid off for more than one (1) year.
6.03	Notwithstanding any provisions that may be contained in this Articjle to the contrary, no employee shall be assigned or recalled to any classifed operation forTwhich he is not then
qualified, except where the provisions set forth in Section 6.07, are applicable.
The Employer may assign or transfer any employee to an operation for a period in which to qualify.
6.04	When an employee ha$ worked on the same operation for three (3) or (2) two cumulative months in any thirty-six (36) month period, he
41
shall be considered as an employee with classified job seniority, on that particular operation. (Ref.; Art. 2.01 H)
6.05	The employees of the Engineering group are not included in the classified and unclassified job seniority systems as outlined in section 6.06,6.07 and 6.08 of this Article. These employees shall be subject to layoff and recall only within their own Engineering group and their seniority rights shall be determined only in relation to each other in the said group on a!factory seniority basis, provided they are qualified. Other employees shall not have the right ^o displace employees in the Engineering group nor, in turn, shall any of the latter have the right to displace other employees.
In all other respect, the other provisions of this Article shall apply to employees of the Engineering group in the same manner as they apply to other employees.
If the employees of the Engineering group are being laid off and there are vacancies in the production departments for which they can qualify they may be offered such jobs until such time as their regular jobs are again available.
A displaced employed from the Engineering group will have the choice of displacing an employee from the negoiciation unity who has the least seniority, if he hds sufficient seniority.
I
6.06	For the purposes outlined in this present Article, the following groups (exclusive of the Engineering Dept.) are establised.
Group 1 Departments:
3432 - 3433 - 3435 - 3543 - 3544 - 3437 - 3744 3743 - 3745
43
Group 2
Departments: 3620 - 3741 - 3742 ■ 3751.
Group 3
Departments: 3320 - 3090 • 3390.
6.07	(a) When it becomesi necessary to lay off an
employee, the employee with the least seniority on either the classified or unclassified jobs affected will be considered the surplus employee and he will have the ,right to displace other employees with less seniority as follows:
Employees on Classified Jobs
The surplus employee ffom a classified job shall:
(1) Displace the employee with the least seniority in a classified job in any other group, providing he has classified job seniority and providing his factory Seniority is sufficient to displace such employee.
Or
(2) Displace the errjployee with the least seniority on a unclassified job in any group provided his factory seniority is sufficient to do so. (The first employee 'displaced under sections 1 or 2, shall have the right to displace another employee under sections 1 or 2. The second employee displaced under sections 1 or 2, who has five (5)or moreyear$ of factory seniority shall have the right to displace an other employee under section 2.)
(3)	This employee displaced under section 2, will displace the employee with the least seniority in the unclassified jobs in the factory, who, in turn, will be laid off.
45
Employees on Unclassified Jobs
The surplus employee from an unclassified job will:
(1)	Displace	an	employee	with	the	least
seniority on an unclassified job in any group,
Or
(2)	Displace	an	employee	with	the	least
seniority on a classified job on which he has classified job seniority,
(3)	The employee displaced under section 1 or 2, who has five (5) or! more years of Factory seniority, shall have the right to displace another employee, under sectipn 1 or 2. The right to be invoked only once.
(4)	Displace	the	errfployee	with	the	least
seniority in the unclassified jobs in the factory who, in turn, will be laild off.
(b)	An employee who refuses to accept a transfer occasioned by rteason of layoff, shall not be discharged, but shalll be laid off and shall be entitled to all privileges granted to an employee who is laid off in the usual course according to the provisions of this article.
This privilege may be utilized only by an employee who is actually at work at the time he refuses the transfer.
(c)	No employee with seniority shall be laid off in one of the established groups in the article 6.06 before all probationers in the Plant have been laid off.
6.08	REINSTATEMENT AND RECALLS PRODUCTION DEPARTMENTS
(1)	In the event of an increase in production resulting in the recall of former employees, who
47
were laid off or reinstatement of employee displaced within the Plant, an employee who was placed on other work i in the Factory from a classified job, must reinstate the classified job in which he worked immediately prior to the date of placement provided he is entitled to do, by virtue of his seniority, and provided no more than four (4) consecutive months have elapsed since his original displacement.
After this time, the employee shall not be reinstated to his original classified job unless he request it as a transfer, as authorized under section 6.11.
(2)	An employee who was placed on other work in the Factory from an unclassified job, shall not be reinstated to his former unclassified job, unless he requests it a$ a transfer, as outlined under section 6.11.
(3)	After all employee^ have been reinstated or transferred, according to the provisions of subsection 1, the balance of the employees in lay off status shall be recalled as follows:
(A)	IN THE CASE OF CLASSIFIED JOBS.
Following the order of classified job seniority, provided that not morq than a four (4) month period has elapsed since the lay off.
After this period, the employee shall be subject to the provisions of the!sub-section “B”, which follows:
(B)	IN THE CASE OF UNCLASSIFIED JOBS.
In the order of Factory seniority.
(4)	In the event of a vacancy remaining in a classified job afterthe procedure in paragraphs
49
above has beenobservdd.the employee with the longest Factory seniority in an unclassified job on lay off status, may be recalled to fill the vacancy, if he can qualify.
(5)	An employee who |has refused to accept a transfer to anotherjob, qs a result of a lay off and who is laid off in accordance with the provisions of sub-section 6.07 (b), vyi 11 be required to accept a recall to any job.
(6)	In each case, consideration will be given to the physical fitness oftne individual for the job, to ensure the safety of himself and others, and a competent working fotce will be maintained at all times.
6.09	(1)An employee shall loose his seniority when
he resigns or is discharged.
(2) An employee on a lay off shall retain only the seniority he had on the date of his lay off if he:
(a)	Informs the Employer of the address at which he can be reached, when required to report for work; changes of jsuch address may be forwarded by mail, addressed to the Employer, and will be acknowledged in writing.
(b)	Advises the Emplbyer of his intention to return to work within ohe (1) working day after having been notified todo so by messenger or within three (3) working days after a notice to do so has been sent by registered mail or telegram, in either case, to his last address on the records of the Employer.
(c)	Reports for work within seven (!) days after he has stated his intention to return to work:
51
however, this provision does not apply to a laid off employee who refuse$ to accept temporary work.
In case where an employee fails to comply with any one of the provisions,of section 2 (a), (b) or (c) above, his employment and his seniority shall terminate at once, without notice or other act of the Employer.
(3) An employee who is laid off with less than five (5) years of Factory seniority and is not recalled to work by the Employer during the following two (2)year period, shall thereupon lose his seniority.
An employee who is laid off with five (5) years or more of Factory seniority and is not recalled to work by the Employer during the following five
(5)	year period, shall thereupon loose his seniority.
6.10	TRANSFERS
(1) An employee who |Wishes to transfer to another operation shall lodge a written application with his foreman on a form supplied by the Employer. The foreman will deliver the application to the Personnel Department where all such applications will be kept on file. A copy of each application for transfer will be forwarded to the Union Secretary.
(^Applications for transfer will be valid for a six (6) month period. At tpe end of six (6) month period, the Personnel Departmentwill return the application to the employee for renewal if he so desires. All requests for transfer must state the specific job to which the employee wishes to be transferred in the case of a requestto a classified job or the specific group In the case of a request to an unclassified job.
53
(3)	Whenever a vacancy occurs, it shall be posted for fortyeight (48) hours, except for Saturdays, Sundays and holidays. Only the written applications and the applications done before the deadline will be considered.
The employee with the longest Factory seniority on the list of applicants who has requested work in that group and who can qualify, shall be given the first opportunity to transfer except when an employee laid-off has more seniority for the operation than the one transfered. The vacancy caused by the original transfer shall be filled by the employee who applied and the longest seniority.
I
Except where an employee in a laid off status from that operation has more seniority than the applicant for transfer.
(4)	If the employee who is transferred in accordance with subsection 2, fails to qualify on the new operation after th^ usual learning period, he shall displace the employee with the least Factory seniority in the qnclassified job in the Factory, provided that hip Factory seniority is sufficient to displace such employee. The employee will haveafifte^n (15) day trial and will return to his previous job.
(5)	When an employee is transferred, he shall be paid in accordance with the wage rate provided for in section 5.0^ fora maximum period of fifteen (15) days and he shall accept the prevailing wage rate scale of the operation to which he has transferred, lunlessthe employee's experience warrants a higher rate.
(6)	No employee shall be allowed to have in force more than one application for transfer at
55
one time. Each application for transfer will automatically cancel any previous application by the same employee.
(7)	When an employee obtains a position on a permanent basis following training, he will not be free to postulate for another position before a 6 month period afterclassification, unless he be displaced by the employee procedure of classified surplus.
If the training requiresthirteen (13) weeks and the person being trained is in addition to the regular shift of the concerned lob, he will not be able to be transferred during this period, except in a laid off status, where the application of the seniority of classified job prevails.
6.11	(1) When an employee is pregnant, the
employer shall grant her a leave of absence according to the law.
6.12	An employee who suffers serious injury or impairment from Goodyear employment which results in permanentdi$ability and who is unable to continue working onihis own operation, but is capable of handling lighter work, may be assigned to and/or retain at work according to the law, notwithstanding the provisions of this Article.
6.14	(1) No member of the Executive Board; the
President, the Vice-president, the Treasurer, the Secretary, the Chief Auditor, also the Chief Preventionnist of the Safety/Health Committee, shall not be laid off while there is still work to be performed in the plant. This privilege shall be
57
given to the persons named on the most recent lists of officials filed by the Association with the employer.
6.14	(2) An employee who is elected or selected for full time duty as an officer or representative of the AGQE of America, Which assignmentwill take him away from his employment with Employer, may apply in writing fof a leave of absence; such leave of absence shall be requested and granted yearly and shall cancel itself automatically upon termination of this Colljective Labour Agreement. For two (2) years following the date where the leave of absence is granted, the employee will accumulate seniority for employment reinstatement and thereafter will retain such seniority for as long as his leave of absence continues in force. Following the termination of his leave of absence and hisimmediate return to work the Employer, heishall be reinstated to all privileges of employment and shall be offered such work as he isqu^lified to do at the current rate of pay for such work.
(3)An employee whip is elected or otherwise designated by the AGQE to assist at a convention of an organization to which she is associated; ex: S.T.E.C., C.T.Q., F.T.Q., etc., will have been elected and such permission will be granted. The AGQE agrees that such a leave of absence will have no effect or betheicause for laid off to other employees.
6.15	A record of seniority of each employee shall be kept in the Personnel Office. An employee shall have the right to examine his seniority record at this office at any reasonable time. The President of the Assoclation or an (1) Officer, if the President is absent, shall have the right to
59
examine the seniority record on any employee at any reasonable time at the Personnel Office.
6.16	For the purpose of this Article, a list of all changes to the Factory classified and unclassified jobs shall be given unnually by the Employer to the Association.
6.17	Any employee who transfers to a supervisory or any other position outsid^ the Bargaining Unit and returns to a job withiiji the Bargaining Unit shall be granted seniority equivalent to the length of his continuous employment with the Employer and shall, consistent with his seniority, be placed on his previousor comparable work. An employee in the Bargaining Unitdisplaced underthis clause shall, consistent with his Seniority, be placed on his previous or comparable work.
6.18	An employee who wishes q leave of absence for personal reasonsshall makje a written application to the Personnel Department, setting out the reasonfor his request. If granted, such leave shall be in writing and a copy will be given to the Association Secretary. Leave of absence will not be granted for self-employment or for employment elsewhere. 'The employee must return to work on the date indicated in the letter of authorization and he \h/ill be placed on his previous job provided that he is able to perform the work. The employee will not be credited with services or seniority during the period while he ison leave of absence. Ifevera holiday coincides with the first week of leave of absence, the holiday will be paid.
61
6.19	The Association acknowledges that in the administration of Article 6j it will be necessary for the Employer to maintain at all times competent and trained wolrking force.
ARTICLE 7 HOLIDAYS
7.01	When a holiday occurs, thd employer will set-up his production schedules to make sure that as many employees as possible are free during this specific holiday. This holiday will be the 24H00 period, starting a 7H00 a.m. of that day.
7.02	Subject to the other provisions of this article, an employee shall be paid an amount equal to one standard shift for each holiday as enumerated in section 2.01 (c), A.H.E..
7.03	Such paymentfor the holidays mentioned in subsection 2.01 (c) above will beinlcuded with the regular pay for the week, irf which it occurs and will be calculated as follows:
(a)	An employee on a daV work operation will be paid his regular shift hours multiplied by his day work rate of pay, but in any case not to exceed his regular shift hpurs.
(b)	An employee on an incentive rate operation will be paid his regular shift hours multiplied by his average hourly earnings (A.H.E.) for the last six (6) weeks pay for whiqh his average hourly earnings(A.H.E.) havebeenjCalculated, but in any case not to exceed his regular shift hours.
7.04	An employee required to work on one of the holidays mentioned above in sub-section 2.01 (c), shall be paid double time for the time worked in addition to his holiday pay.
63
Only the employee who actually works his last scheduled shift following the holiday shall receive holiday pay: this rule however, does not apply to an employee returning from vacation immediately preceding a holiday. In the case where there are circumstances beyond the employee's control and ithe employee could have worked if the factory had operated, payment for the holiday may be made by recommendation of the Foreman and upon approval by the Plant Manager.
Subject to what is preceding, an employee absent for sickness or accident attested by a doctor's certificate, and not to ,exceed thirty (30) days, excluding Saturday and Sunday, and when there is a designated holiday in such period shall receive pay for the holiday. From this pay, shall be deducted all earnin'gs the employee would have received further to his sickness or accident.
7.06	An employee shall receive holiday pay for a holiday that occurs duriing his regular vacation period provided that the said employee actually works his last scheduled shift before and hisfirst scheduled shift following his vacation period.
7.07	An employee who is laid off within a period of five (5) working days immediately preceding a holiday, and who is actually at work on the day of the layoff, shall be entitled to receive holiday pay for such holiday.
ARTILqE 8 VACATION
8.01	For the purpose of' computing vacation entitlement and vacation pay, the vacation year
65
will commence on the first day of May of each year and will terminate 6n the thirtieth day of April of the following year.
8.02	An employee who has Ipss than one year of continuous service as of April 30, of the current year, shall be granted one (1) day of vacation for each complete month worked for the Employerduring the previous vacation year, inasmuch as the duration of vacation does not exceed two (2) weeks.
8.03	An employee who completes one year of continuous service on or before April 30, of the current year, will be entitled to two (2) weeks of holidays to be taken during the period of twelve (12) months following April 30. He shall receive as holiday pay four percent (4%) of his earnings of the previous vacation year.
8.04	An employee who completes five (5) years of continuous service on or before April 30 of the current year, shall be entitled to three (3) weeks of vacation, to be taken within the twelve (12) months following April 30. He shall receive as vacation pay six (6%) of his earnings during the previous vacation year.
8.05	An employee who completed twelve (12) years of continuous service on or before April 30 of the current year, shall be entitled to four (4) weeks of vacation to be taken within the twelve (12) months following April 30. He shall receive as vacation pay eight percent (8%)of his earnings during the previous vacation year.
8.06	An employee who completes twenty (20) years of continuous service omor before April 30 of the current year, shall be eligible to receive five (5) weeks of vacation, to betaken within the twelve (12) month period following April 30. He shall receive as vacation paytten (10%) percent of his earnings of the previous vacation year.
67
8.07	An employee who completed thirty (30) years of continuous service on or before April 30 of the current year, shall be eligible to receive six (6) weeks of vacation to betaken within the twelve (12) month period following April 30. He shall receive as vacation pay twelve percent (12%)of his earnings of the previous vacation year.
8.08	An employee who is entitled to four, five or six weeks of vacation pay, rhay elect to take two vacation pay equivalent1 to two (2%) of his earnings during the previous vacation year in lieu of his fourth, fifth and/or sixth week of vacation by making application therefore to his Employer within the twelve (12)month period following April 30.
8.09	An employee who starts and ceases employment during the present vacation year shall receive an amount equal to four percent (4%) of his earnings.
8.10	An employee who leavef the employ of the Employerand has not had his vacation during the current vacation year, isehtitled to vacation pay in lieu of vacation base(J on his continuous service as of the thirtieth pf April preceding his departure, as provided in paragraphs 8.03, 8.04, 8.05, 8.06, and 8.07.
8.11	(1)An employee who leavesthe employ of the Employer after having had his vacation in the current vacation year, shall receive four (4), six (6), eight (8), ten (10)ortw@lve (12) percent of his wages earned after the 1 Stjof May preceding the date of his departure. This is in accordance with article 8.03, 8.04, 8.05, 8.06 and 8.07.
(2) For the purpose of computing actual earnings for vacation pay following items shall
69
be included: actual wages earned (including bonuses and overtime payments), vacation pay for the preceding vacation year and Workmen’s Compensation payments for lost time.
8.12	When an employee has been unable to work during a portion of the preceding vacation year, owing to sickness or injury, not covered by the Workmen’s Compensation Act, and for this reason only the vacatiort pay is less than the minimum mentioned below, the vacation pay shall be increasedto a minimum of (sameamount as weekly indemnity maxifnum of $180) per week, provided that the said employee must have worked during some portion of the preceding vacation year and have! resumed his normal duties not less than three (3) months before vacation is granted.
8.13	Vacations shall be taken at such times as will be most convenient for the Employer, but the Employer will endeavour to schedule vacations at times suitable to the Employees.
8.14	Am employee is not entitled underany condition to more than six (6)week’s vacation with pay.
8.15	Vacations are not cumulative and cannot be deferred until the following vacation year.
ARTICLE 9
SECURITY OF THE ASSOCIATION
9.01	All employees covered by the present once their period of probation finished, will become and must remain a member of the G.Q.E.A.
9.02	The Company will deduct pn a weekly basis, from the wages of each employee the equivalence of the Association's contribution as agreed by the
71
G.Q.E.A. and all changes pertaining to this amount. The Company is legally authorized to proceed with such deductions.
9.03	Once every month, thejCompany will submit the total of the amounts deducted to the G.Q.E.A.’s Treasurer, accompanied by the list of namesand amounts deducted from each employee. This will be done on the 10th of the month following the one when the amounts were deducted. The G.Q.E.A.'s Treasurer will then submit a receipt to the Company.
9.04	There shall not be any collection of Association dues or other condupt of the Association’s business in the Factory. However, the President of the Association wi|l be permitted eight (8) hours a week to attend to the Association’s business covered by the Collective Labour Agreement and to the conditions stated in the letter of agreement #9.
ARTICLE i0
GRIEVANCE AND ARBITRATION PROCEDURE
10.01	It isthe mutual desire Of the parties hereto that complaints of employee shall be adjusted as quickly as possible,! and any dispute or complaint between employee and the Employer shall be dealt with asiprovided hereunder.
10.02	It is agreed that an erriployee does not have a grievance until he hasdiscussed the complaint with his immediate supervisor.
10.03	If such complaint is not settled to the satisfaction of the employee concerned, the employee shall state the complaint in writing, and when signed by hihn and presented to the steward of his department, such complaint shall be considered to be a grievance and subject to the following steps of the Grievance procedure.
73
STEP I
The grievance may be discussed by the steward and/or an Association’s representative with the foreman of the department in which the grievance occured. A decision will be rendered in writing by the foreman within a period of one day, if possible.
STEP II
If no satisfactory solution is reached at Step I of this procedure, the grievance may be discussed by the Bargaining Committee of the Association and representatives of the Employer designated for this purpose within £(, period of not more than five (5) working days foliowing a decision at Step I of this procedure. A decision will be furnished in writing by the Personnel Manager to the secretary of Associatiop not later than five (5) working days following tljie commencement of the discussion in Step II, if possible.
STEP III
If no satisfactory solution is reached in Step II of this procedure, the grievance may be discussed by the Bargaining Committee of the Association and a representative df the Association and representatives of the Employer designated for this purpose, within a peifiod of not more than five (5) working days aftejr the receipt by the Association of the decision of Step II. However, the Company shall communicate its response within the five (5) working days, following the assembly.
STEP IV
Ifthe grievance is not settled at Step III and if the grievance is one which concerns the applications, administration, interpretation or alleged violation of the Agreement, either party may refer such
75
grievance to a Board of Arbitration by delivering to the other party in writing within five (5)working days of the completion Of the discussion in Step III.
10.04	The statementof the subject mattershall include the designation of the section of the Agreement which it is alleged has Pfeen violated, as well as the subject matter. Whep agreed upon this shall be the only subject matjter that can be referred to the Board of Arbitration. The Board of Arbitration shall hear anfl render its decision only on such statement, as swbmitted to it by the two parties.
10.05	If the parties are unable to agree upon the said statement, the party tciwhom such statement was delivered shall delivr r, in writing, to the other party, within ten (10)wo' ring days of the delivery of such last-mentioner statement, a counterstatement of the subjeq matter of the grievance and in such event, botwlthe statement and the counter-statement shall be submitted to the Board of Arbitration hereinunder provided.
10.06	When a grievance is referred to the Board of Arbitration, neitherthe employer northe grievor nor the Association shall challenge the jurisdiction of the Board of Arbitration nor invoke the non arbitrability of the grievance unless such claim was made in the agreed statement or in the statement or couhter-statement of either party.
10.07	It is agreed that the aggrieved employee shall be at liberty and may be required by either party to appear in person at any step of the procedure set fourth above.
10.08	Each party, will within ten (10)working days of the notice referred to in Step IV, nominate a person to represent it on the Board of Arbritration
77
and notify the other party of the name of such person; the two persons so nominated will forthwith appoint a third person to act as Chairman of the Board <pf Arbitration. If they are unable to agree upon a Chairman within 48 hours after receipt of notice of their appointment, they will'request the Minister of Labour of the Province of Quebec to nominate a person in accordance with the provisions outlined in section 66 of the Labour Code to act as Chairman; except in an arbitration case involving piece-work ratjes, where the Chairman shall be a competent Industrial Engineer.
10.09	Such Chairman together with the two nominees mentioned above shall (constitute the Board of Arbitration, and shall meet promptlyto hearand consider the grievance with all reasonable dispatch. The decision of the majority of the Board made in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement shall be final and binding on the Employer, the Association and the employee or the employees concerned.
10.10	Each of the parties will|bear the expense of the arbitrator nominated by it; the parties will jointly bear the expense of the Chairman of the Board.
10.11	The Board of Arbitration shall not have any power to alter or change any of the provisions of this Collective Agreement or to substitute any new provision for any existing provision or to give any decision inconsistent with the terms and provisions of this Collective Agreement.
79
10.13	Any or all of the time limits set forth above may be extended by mutual agreement.
DISCHARGE CASES
10.14	An employee with seniority whoclaims to have been discharged or suspended unjustly may file a claim in writing with the Personnel Manager within five (5)working!days of ceasing to work, stating that he has bebn unjustly discharged or suspended.
10.15	All such cases will be handled at Step II of the grievance procedure within five (5) working days of the receipt of the (flaim from the employee who has been discharged or suspended. If no satisfactory solution Is reached as a result of the application of Step II and III of the grievance procedure, the dispute shall be subject to arbitration in accordance with the provisions of Article 10,
10.16	If it is decided that the employee was unjustly discharged or suspended, he shall be reinstated and he shall be compensated at his regular rate of pay for the time lost, subject to the provisions hereinafter provided.
10.17	The Board of Arbitration will have the right to increase or decrease the penalty if they feel the circumstancesjustify such action, and will have the authority to determine the amount of pay, if any, the employee is to receive for the period of his discharge or suspension if he is subsequently reinstated.
In calculating the amount of pay the employee is to receive, if reinstated, the Board of Arbitration shall deduct therefrom any monies
81
earned by the employee from other employment and any Unemployment Insurance benefits received by the employee during the period of his suspension or discharge and retained by him. In any event the employee shall not receive back pay for more than two hundred (200) working days.
10.18	(1)An employee will be given a copy of any notation concerning his misconduct or inefficiency at the time it is placed on his personal record. A copy of every notation will be forwarded to the Secretary of the Association by the Personnel Manager of the Employer.
(2)	Notations reporting offenses exclusive of the violation of the np-strike provisions of the Agreement, not repeated within a one (1) year period will be disregarded in the administration of discipline.
(3)	Notations reposing offenses involving violation of the no-$trike provisions of this Agreement and not repeated within a three (3) year period will be disregarded in the administration of discipline.
10.19	(1)(a) In all cases of Arbitration concerning the discharge or the suspension of an employee, a single arbitrator will bp substituted for the Board of Arbitration provided for in this Agreement, if requested by either the Association or the Employer.
(b) In all cases of arbitration concerning piecework rates, a Single arbitrator will be substituted for the Board of Arbitration if requested by either'the Association or the Employer. This arbitrator shall be a competent Industrial Engineer.
(2) In all cases cf arbitration concerning other than the discharge or the suspension of an
83
employee or piecework rates, a single arbitrator may be substituted for the Board of Arbitration provided for in article 10 of this Agreement only upon mutual agreement between the Association and the Employer.
(3) In all cases of substitution as described in subsections 1 & 2 of section 10.19, all other applicable provisionsof articl^ 10 of this Agreement will continue to apply provided they are relevant.
ARTICLE 11 MISCELLANEOUS
11.01	The Employer will provide reasonable protective devices and other equipment necessary to protect the employees from injury and sickness; the Association agrees to cooperate with the Employer in the use of these devices and in the elimination of all industrial accidents.
11.02	Each employee shall use reasonablecare for the cleanliness of his machines and his immediate working area.
11.03	The Association recognize? the need for improved methods and agrees to cooperate with the Employer in suggesting and introducing such methods and in educating its members in the need of such changes and improvements; the Employer and the Association agree that, consistent with fair and reasonable labour practices, it is desirable to maintain the best productivity possible.
11.04	The Association pledges that it will cooperate with the Employer in an effort for the highest quality of product.
11.05	Any notice to be given by One party to the other shall be addressed as follows:
85
TO THE ASSOCIATION
Secretary, Goodyear Quebec Employees Assocation, local 149
To the Employer
Manager,
Goodyear Canada Inc.
1195 Taillon St.
Quebec, P.Q.
11.06	The work accomplished by the employees, who are members of the Production Surveillance Group shall not have any effect in the replacement of any employee covered by the Accreditation certificate.,
11.07	A Bargaining Committee consisting of five (5) members, all of whom shall be regular employees of the Employer and eighteen (18) years of age or over, shall be selected by the employees who are members of the Association, in a mannerdetermined by the Association. The Employer shall be informed by the Association, in writing, of the personnel of the committee and of any changes which may occur from time to time.
11.08	The members of the Bargaining Committee and the duly authorized representatives of the Employer shall meet regularly once a month.
They may, by mutual agreement, meet more frequently, if circumstances so require.
HEALTH / SAFETY
The Employer and the Association agree to cooperate with accident prevention and industrial injuries, and will take necessary procedures to assure the security and well-being of the employees.
87
A Health/Safety Committee has been established. The main function of this committee is to inform the Employer of all health and safety conditions. This Committee meets when required, but in normal circumstances it should meet once a month.
The members of the Committee shall be paid A.H.E. for the time spent for the Safety and Health.
ARTICLE 12 DURATION OF THE COLLECTIVE LABOUR AGREEMENT
12.01 Save as to the Pension Plan and Severance Award Agreement, aqd a Trust Agreement between the same parties, this Collective Labour Agreement constitutes the entire one between the Employer and the Association.
It shall remain in force until March 31, 1989.
89
LETTRE D’ENTENTE #1
Goodyear Canada Inc. 1195, rue Taillon Quebec, (Quebec)
G1N 3V2
Le Secretaire de I’Association des Employes de Goodyear Quebec Local 149
OBJET: Paiement des reunions
Monsieur,
La presente servira a confirmer I’entente conclue lors de la derniere seance de negociations. La Compagnie convient de payer une journbe pour I'assemblee mensuelle et la rencontre de la 3eme etape de grief.
De plus la Compagnie paiera deux jours a [’employ^ qui est sur le 3eme quart pour les rencontres des negociations seulement (a noter que les deux jours payes nes’appliquent pas pour le lundi). Cette pratique ne s’appliquera pas lorsque I’application pour les services de conciliation sera faite.
Bien a vous,
91
Goodyear Canada Inc.
LETTRE D’ENTENTE #3
Goodyear Canada Inc. 1195, rue Taillon Quebec, P.Q.
Secretaire de I’Association des Employes de Goodyear Quebec Local 149
OBJET: Operation d’equipes
Cher monsieur,
La pr^sente servira pour confirmer I’entente atteinte durant les recentes negoci£tions concernant les equipes telle qu’appliquees & I’Usine de Quebec.
Les secteurs de production suivants sont considers comme operation d’equipej et comme tels, les employes qui transferent darts ces secteurs doivent accepter lat&che dans laquelle I’habilite est lemoins reconnu dans I’equipe, si les employes demandant un tel transfert ne sont pas qualifies selon les dispositions de I’article 6.04.
BANBURY
EXTRUDERS
L’Employeur se reserve le droit d’ajouterou d'enlever les Equipes si la necessity se prSsente.
Blen A vous,
93
Goodyear Canada Inc.
LETTRE D’ENTENTE #5
Goodyear Canada Inc.
1195, rue Tailion Quebec, P.Q.
Secretaire de I’Association des Employes de Goodyear Quebec Local 149
OBJET: Taches classifiees et non classifiees
Cher monsieur,
La presente servira comme confirmation de la politique de la Compagnie en ce qui concerne la liste de taches classifiees et non-classifiees qui sera donnee e I’Union selon les disposition de la section 6.16.
La liste des taches classifiees et non-classifiees sera redigee d’une telle maniere afin de maintenir aussi pr6s que possible & la proportion suivante:
Nombre d’employes couverts par des taches classifiees:
66 - 2/3%
Nombre d’employes couverts par des taches non-classifiees:
33 - 1/3%
Bien a vous,
Goodyear Canada Inc.
95
LETTRE D’ENTENTE #7
Goodyear Canada Inc.
1195, rue Taillon Quebec, P.Q.
Secretaire de I’Association Ides Employes de Goodyear Quebec Local 149
OBJET: Affichage pourvacances
Cher monsieur,
La presente est pour confirmer I’entente atteinte durant les recentes negociatipns, I’Employeur consent decedulerdeux semaines delvacances entre le 1er juin et Ie30 septembre pour les employes eligibles quiont atteint deux ans de seniorite.
La Compagnie avisera au plus tard le 1er avril, de son intention quant k lafermeture d’Usine pour fin de vacances.
Les annees ou il n’y aura pas defermeture d’Usine, la Compagnie cedulera la pri$e de vacances, selon les groupes designes k cette fin. En tenant compte des exigences de la production, I’anciennete prevaudra pourdeterminerlechoix parrni les employesdechaque groupe. Lacedule sera affichee au plustard le 15 avril de I'annee courante et, lorsque convenue, ne pourra etre modifiee sans leconsentement de I’employe, sauf dans les casd’urgence imprevisible.
Bien k vous,
Goodyear Canada Inc.
97
LETTRE D’ENTENTE #9
Goodyear Canada Inc.
1195, rue Taillon Quebec (Quebec)
G1N 3V2
Le Secretaire de L’Association des Employes de Goodyear! Quebec Local 149
OBJET: TEMPS ACCORDE AU PRESIDENT DE L’ASSOCIATION ARTICLE 9.04
Monsieur,
Selon I’entente intervenue entre I’Employeur et le Syndicat lors des nSgociatioilis de 1985, laCompagnie a accept6 d’accorder 8 h!eures par semaine au President de I’Association pour s’occuper des affaires syndicales aux conditions suivantes:
Tous les employes qui d6sirent voir le President pour des raisons syndicales devront obtenir la permission de leur contremaTtre spdcifiant la raison.
Aucune permission ne sera accordSe pour des raisons personnelles.
Les reunions devront avoir lieu dans le bureau qui a 6td pret6 a I’Association (Div. B)
Pour des raisons majeures, du temps pourra 6tre allou6 au President avec I’autorisation du contremattre du d^partement.
Goodyear Canada Inc.
99
LETTRE D’ENTENTE #11
Goodyear Canada Inc.
1195, rue Tailion Quebec, P.Q.
Secretaire de I’Association des Employes de Goodyear Quebec Local 149
Cher monsieur.
SUJET: Classification
REF Articles 2.01 (h) / 6.04
La prbsente servira A confirmer I’entente atteinte durant les negociations de 1982.
Le temps ou I'employe esben periode de maladie ou d'accident ne compte pas pour se classifier.
Bien A vous,
Gpodyear Canada Inc.
101
LETTRE D’ENTENTE #13
Goodyear Canada Inc.
1195, rue Taillon Quebec (Quebec)
G1N 3V2
Le Secretaire de I’Associatiqn des Employes de Goodyear Quebec Local 149
OBJET: Debut et fin d’un quart
Monsieur,
Laprdsente servira k confiritner I’entente intervenue lors des ndgociations de 1983.
II a 6t6 entendu que les employesseront A leur poste de travail cinq (5) minutes avpnt le debut d’un quart et nedevront quitter leur post$de travail pas plus que cinq (5) minutes avant la fin de leur quart.
Blen A vous,
Goodyear Canada Inc.
103
LETTRE D’ENTENTE U15
Goodyear Canada Inc. 1195, rue Taillon Quebec, P.Q.
Secretaire de (’Association des Employes de Goodyear Quebec Local 149
Cher monsieur.
EFFECTIF A COMPTER DU 24 AOOT 1981 CLASSIFICATION
Un employe quality etqui ad6j& acquis I’anciennete d'usine, qui est deplace e la convenance de la Compagnie d'une operation bu il etait a se classifier, continuera & se classifier sur cette operation tant et aussi longtemps qu’il seta ainsi deplace k la convenance de la Compagnie et pourvu que cette operation soit ceduiee.
Un employe qualifie et qui a acquis I’anciennete d’usine, qui prend desvacances auxquelles il a droit alors qu’il est k se classifier sur une operation, continuera k se classifier sur cette operation durant la periode qu’il est en vacances pourvu que cette operation soit c6du!6e durant la dite vacance.
Bien a vous,
105
Goodyear Canada Inc.
APPENDIX “A”
1.	Interim Increase
The amount of the Interim Increase shall be calculated and as provided below on the basis of the Consumer Price Index published by Statistics Canada (1971-100) and hereinafter referred to as the C.P.I.
2.	First Year of Agreement
(a)	The base for calculation: The average C.P.I. Index for the months of January and February & March 1986 increased by 4 percent.
(b)	The first adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay period beginnjng July 7, 1986. It will relect one cent for each full .3 points that the averageC.P.I. Index forthe months of March, 1986, April 1986 and May 1986 exceeds the base for calculation.
(c)	A second adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay period beginning October 6, 1986. It will reflect one cent for each full .3 points that the average C.P.I. Index for the months of June 1986, July 1986 and August 1986,'exceeds the base for calculations.
(d)	A third adjustment will bp calculated and paid as of the pay period beginnjng January 5, 1987. It will reflect one cent for each full .3 points that the averageC.P.I. Index, forthe months of September, October and November 1988 exceeds the base for calculations.
(e)	A fourth adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay period beginning April 6, 1987. It will reflect one cent for each full .3 points that the average C.P.I. Index for the'months of December 1986 and January and February 1987 exceeds the base for calculations.
109
3.	Second Year of Agreement
(a)	The base for calculation: The average C.P.I. Index for the months of January, February and March 1987, increased by 4 percent.
(b)	The first adjustment will Ipe calculated and paid as of the pay period beginning July 6,1987. It will reflect one cent for each full ,3 points that the average C.P.I. Indexforthe monthsof March, April and May 1987, exceeds the base for calculations.
(c)	The second adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay period beginning October5,1987. It will reflect one cent for each full .3 points that the averageC.P.I. Indexforthe monthsof June, July and August 1987, exceedsthte base for calculations.
(d)	The third adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay period beginning January 4, 1988. it will reflect one cent for eaclj full .3 points that the averageC.P.I. Indexforthe monthsof September, October, and November 1987, exceeds the base for calculations.
(e)	The fourth adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay period beginning April 4, 1988. It will reflect one cent for each full .3 points that the averageC.P.I. Indexforthe monthsof December 1987, and January and February 1988 exceeds the base for calculations.
4.	Third Year of Agreement
(a)	The base for calculation • The average C.P.I. Index for the months of January, February and March 1988, increased by 4 percent.
(b)	The first adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay period beginning July 4, 1988. It will reflect one cent for each full .3 points that the averageC.P.I. Indexforthe monthsof March, April and May 1988, exceeds the base for calculations.
111
(c)	The second adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay period beginning October 3,1988. It will reflect one cent for each full .3 points that the average C.P.I. Index for the months of June, July and August 1988 exceeds the base for calculations.
(d)	The third adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay period beginning January 2, 1989. It will reflect one cent for each full .3 points that the average C.P.I. Index for the months of September, October and November 1988 exceeds the base for calculations.
5.	The Interim increase will be considered as earnings but will be boxed separately from other wage payments on the employee's time card.
6.	In the event Statistics Capada does not issue the appropriate Consumer Price Index on or before the date on which an adjustment is to be calculated, any adjustments required will be made at the beginning of the first pay period following receipt of the Index.
7.	No adjustments, retroactive or otherwise, shall be made due to any revision which may later be made in any published Consumer Price Index by Statistics Canada.
8.	Continuation of the Interim adjustments is dependent upon the availability of dependent upon the availability of the official Statistics Canada Consumer Price Index calculated on the same basis and in the same form as that published for April 1986.
113
APPENDIX “C”
6-2/3 days working time-tablb.
It is understood and agreed that in order to allow full utilisation of the Quebec Plant, the employer may setup a working time-table of 6-2/3 days if necessary.
WORKING HOURS
4.01
Referring to article 4.01, employees working on Continental shifts will have a weekly schedule averaging 40 hours, the week beginning and ending at 07h00 Sunday mornings.
4.02	Overtime
Referring to article 4.02, “overtime” is defined as the hours worked in addition to the employee’s normal and regular working schedule.
This time will be payed according to the provisions included in article 5.05.
4.03	Rest Periods
Referring to article 4.06, employees working on Continental shift will be allowed one (1) rest period of 10 minutes every four (4) hour period and taken in conformity with the time schedule as established by the department's supervisor.
5.21 Jury Task
Referring to article 5.21, employees working on Continental shift asked to serve as member of a jury or having received a subponea asking to appear as crown witness will be payed the difference belweenthe amount received for such a Service and his average hourly rate or the time lost on nis regularshift because of this service.
7.02 Holidays
Referring to article 7.01, employees working on Continental shift will be payed eight (8) hours for every holiday specified in article 2.01 (c).
117
Posting of job openings
Referringto article 6.11-3, a job opening in a department will be posted for a period of 72 hours, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and holidays.
Lunch Tickets
Employees working on Continental shift article 4.04 A, B, and C concerning lunch tickets is not applicable.
APPENDIX “D”
Health Insurance
The first Monday following ratification, the Company will pay 0.80$/week which mayljie used to buy benefits.
August 2nd 1987, the Company will pay 1.20$/week which may be used to buy benefits.
APPENDIX “F”
An adjustment of 0.25$/hour will be givento the operator and to the “Slug Cutter” millman following ratification.
Forthe employees of the maintenance department, an adjustment of 0.25$/hour following ratification plus, 0.10$ effective August 4th 1986 and 0.10$ effective August 3rd 1987.
119