
COLLECTIVE LABOUR
AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
GOODYEAR CANADA INC. MEDICINE HAT PLANT AND G.E.L. WAREHOUSE THE EMPLOYER
AND
LOCAL UNION 628 OF THE
UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA FOR THE ASSOCIATES
JUNE 3,1996 DECEMBER 31,1999
ARTICLE INDEX
ARTICLE 1
Purpose...............*.......*......*....
ARTICLE 2
Interpretation ...........................
ARTICLE 3
Scope of Agreement .......................
ARTICLE 4
Hours of Work....................*___**___
ARTICLE 5
Rates of Pay .............................
ARTICLE 6
Seniority ................................
ARTICLE 7
Designated Holidays ......................
ARTICLE 8
Vacations ................................
ARTICLE 9
Union Security .............................
ARTICLE 10
Grievance and Arbitration Procedure . . . . ARTICLE 11
Miscellaneous ....................*........
ARTICLE 12
Duration of Collective Agreement ..........
APPENDIX A
Job Rates & Classifications ...............
APPENDIX B
Interim Increase Formula ..................
APPENDIX C
Crew Progression and Regression ...........
APPENDIX D
5 Day, or 7 Day Crew Work Schedule.........
PAGE
1
2
4
5
8
13
26
28
32
34
38
40
42
44
48
49
LETTERS .................................... 50
ALPHABETICAL INDEX ........................... 57
- 1 -
COLLECTIVE LABOUR AGREEMENT
This Collective Labour Agreement is made and entered into as of the 3rd day of June 1996, between Goodyear Canada Inc. with respect to certain associates at its Medicine Hat Plant, and G.E.L. Warehouse, hereinafter referred to as the "employer" anc[ Local Union 628 of the United Steelworkers of America, hereinafter referred to as the "union".
ARTICLE 1 PURPOSE
1.01	It is the mutual desire of the contracting parties to pr°mote co-operation and harmony and to provide an amicable method of settling any dispute or grievance that might arise between them.
1.02	They agree to work in harmonious relationship and undertake:
(a)	that there shall be no discrimination, interference, restraint or coercion by or on behalf of the employer regarding any associate covered by this Agreement because of membership or non-membership in the union;
(b)	that the union, its members or its agents shall not intimidate or coerce said associates into membership.
1.03	The company and the union are committed to the principle of "equality in employment" for all persons regardless of race, national or ethnic origin, colour, marital status, religion, sex, age or mental or physical disability.
This principle embraces all matters pertaining to associate interaction, not solely employment practices designed to eliminate discriminatory barriers and to provide in a meaningful way, equitable opportunities in employment.
Decisions regarding recruitment and selection of applicants for employment will be based on the qualifications of the individual.
2.01
- 2 -
ARTICLE 2 INTERPRETATION
In this Collective Agreement and its application, unless
the context requires otherwise, the following words and
expressions will have the meaning hereafter given to
them:
(a)	"employer" means Goodyear Canada Inc., Medicine Hat Plant, and Medicine Hat Warehouse, Medicine Hat, Alberta.
(b)	"associate" means and includes all hourly-rated associates of the employer at its Medicine Hat Plant and its Medicine Hat Warehouse, below the level of shift co-ordinator, with the exception of office associates, security guards, production squadron training group, and production schedulers.
(c)	"probationer" means an associate without seniority.
(d)	"probationary period" means a four (4) consecutive month period during which the probationer works for the employer prior to acquiring seniority rights.
The company and union may mutually agree to extend a probationary period when required.
No associate will serve his/her probationary period in the capacity of a "temporary vacation relief" person.
(e)	"Qualification" means the ability to perform the operation to which an associate is assigned in a competent manner and to produce the same standard of quantity and quality of work as is usually obtained from such operation; "to qualify" and "qualified" shall have a like meaning.
(f)	"Surplus associate" means an associate on lay-off status from his/her regular operation for an indefinite period.
(g)	"Lay-off" means the termination of work of an associate by the employer for an indefinite period, caused by the decision of the employer to reduce or eliminate the work upon which the associate was engaged; "laid off" shall have a like meaning.
3-
2.01 cont'd
(h)	The term "job rate" or "rate of pay" shall mean the
rate per hour for all day work operations.
(i)	"Job rate" shall mean the hourly rate per appendix "A" that an associate shall be paid for all hours worked on that operation or another operation to which he/she is assigned unless the assigned operation warrants a higher job rate. In such case, the higher job rate will be paid for all hours worked on that operation provided a satisfactory effort is made.
(j)	The term "vacancy" shall not include a vacancy
caused by any of the following:
(1)	when an associate is absent by reason of sickness;
(2) when an associate is on vacation;
(3) when an associate is on an authorized leave of absence;
(4)	when a qualified associate is in lay-off status except as provided in Section 6.13, subsection 3 of this Collective Agreement.
(k) "Factory seniority" means the status that an associate acquires after he/she has worked for the employer for four (4) consecutive months.
(l)	"Department seniority" means the status that an
associate (with factory	seniority'	In the
Engineering Division acquires after he/she has worked for the employer for four (4) consecutive months in the same department.
(m)	"Classified job seniority" means the status that an associate with factory seniority acquires after he/she has worked for the employer for four (4) consecutive months on the same classified job.
2.01
3.01
3.02
cont'd
4 -
(n)	The term "credited service" means the service of an
associate with the employer as it appears on his/her record maintained by the employer in conformity with the Collective Labour Agreement.	The terms
"credited service" and "continuous service" as used throughout this agreement shall be synonymous. The records of the employer shall be presumed to be conclusive of the facts concerning the service, employment, non-employment, or disability retirement of an associate, a former associate, pensioner or applicant for a pension, unless shown beyond a reasonable doubt to be incorrect.
(o)	"Crew seniority" means the status that an associate ' acquires in respect to the time accumulated by
him/her while working on any crew within the same department, working on the same operation.
(p)	"Temporary" or temporary period shall mean a period of time not to exceed three (3) consecutive months duration. At the end of any three (3) month period the associate who has been assigned to the temporary position will be given the option of returning to his/her original position. In the event no qualified volunteers are available the most junior qualified associate will be reassigned.
ARTICLE 3
SCOPE OF AGREEMENT
The terms of this Collective Agreement shall apply to all associates who are defined in the certificate issued by the Board of Industrial Relations of the Province of Alberta, and the employer recognizes the union as the sole collective bargaining agent for the said associates for the duration of this Collective Agreement.
The union acknowledges that it is the exclusive function of the employer:
(a)	to maintain order, discipline and efficiency;
(b)	to hire, discharge, transfer, upgrade, promote,
demote or discipline associates and to increase and decrease the work force, provided that if there is a claim by an associate who has acquired seniority that he/she has been disciplined or discharged without reasonable cause , it may be made the subject of a grievance and dealt with as provided in this Agreement;
5
3.02 cont'd
(c)	to determine the qualifications of each associate;
(d)	to operate and manage its business in all respects
and without limiting the generality of the foregoing, to determine:
-	the number and location of plants
-	the products to be manufactured
-	the methods of manufacturing and the production schedules to be used
-	the type and location of machines and tools to be used
-	the engineering and design of its products
-	the control of material and parts to be
"	incorporated into the product.
(e)	The company will be solely responsible for the proper implementation of work rules and rates of pay.
The employer agrees that these functions will be exercised in a manner not inconsistent with the terms of this Agreement.
3.03	There shall be no lock-out, strike, slow down or stoppage of work during the term of this Agreement.
3.04	In the event that any of the provisions of this Collective Agreement are found to be in conflict with any valid and applicable Federal or Provincial Law now existing, or hereinafter enacted, it is agreed that such law shall supersede the conflicting provisions without in any way affecting the remainder of the Collective Agreement.
ARTICLE 4 HOURS OF WORK
4.01	(1) With the exception of operations which are
scheduled on a 5 day, 40 hour work week Monday to Friday inclusive, the regular weekly schedule for the factory is a 7 day operation, and each associate is assigned regular shift hours according to his/her type of work. However this shall not be taken as a guarantee of hours of work per day or days of work per week.
The regular weekly schedule is an average of forty two (42) hours (based on a thirty six (36) hour and forty-eight (48) hour rotation) within a period
4.01 cont'd
- 6 -
from 8:00 a.m.Sunday to 8:00 a.m. Sunday. (In anY week in which a designated holiday occurs, the weekly hours may vary).
(2)	The employer may schedule work in excess of regular plant hours in order to maintain the factory and equipment, or to keep the production processes in balance, or to avoid the temporary hiring and laying off of associates.
(3)	All overtime shall be voluntary. Overtime shall be distributed in an equal and impartial manner among the qualified associates of the department (who have volunteered) in which overtime becomes necessary. In the event the overtime work cannot be filled from the volunteer list the most junior qualified associate(s) will be required to work.
(4)	(a)	7 day work schedule is as follows:
D - Day Shift	12 hour shifts - various
N - Night Shift	starting times
CREW PREMIUMS #1 - $0.90/HR WORKED #2 - $0.90/HR WORKED #3 - $0.90/HR WORKED #4 - $0.90/HR WORKED Associate works-off:
OVERTIME PROVISION 1ST SCH. DAY OFF:	TIME AND ONE HALF
2ND SCH. DAY OFF:	DOUBLE TIME
3RD SCH. DAY OFF:	TIME AND ONE HALF
2-2, 3-2, 2-3 rotation
SMTWTFS SMTWTFS
SMTWTFS SMTWTFS
CREW IN DD 
CREW 2 D-NN 
CREW 3-DD--NN CREW 4-NN--DD
N N - - D D D D----N N
D - - N N N - - D D
D D - - N N N N-----D D
N - - D D D----N N
N N - - D D D D - - N N
D - - N N N - - D D
NOTE:	Shift scheduled to work Sunday will be paid 8.0 hours
straight time and 4.0 hours time and one half.
(b)	Eight (8) hour shifts - rotating or non-rotating -various starting times - either 8 hours with a 20 minute paid lunch, or 8.5 hours with a 30 minute unpaid lunch.
Established shifts may be changed by mutual agreement.
4.02
4.03
4.04
4.05
4.06
4.07
- 7 -
"Overtime work" means all time worked in excess of an associate's regularly scheduled eight (8-) hour or twelve (12) hour shift in a twenty-four (24) hour period from the time he/she is regularly scheduled to start work; and also means all time worked from 8:00 A.M. Saturday to 8:00 A.M. Monday for those on an eight (8) hour shift, forty (40) hour work week.
Overtime work does not include:
(a)	Time worked by associates substituting for one another at their own request.
(b)	A change of an associate's working hours at his/her
own request.
(c)	Regular weekly shift change.
(d)	The time spent on associate committee work or
similar activity.
An associate will be advised of any change that is made on his/her time sheet before the end of the pay period.
The employer will provide adequate relief when necessary.
The employer shall not reduce the regular working time of an associate because he/she has done overtime work, unless the associate consents to such reduction.
An associate will not construe overtime worked as a reason to take a "regularly scheduled day" off.
It is the policy of the Company not to schedule an associate to work for more than twelve (12) consecutive hours at one time. However, it is recognized that in emergency situations or when other qualified associates are not available, it may be necessary to request an associate or associates to work beyond twelve {12) consecutive hours. It is the Company's intention to keep such occurrences to an absolute minimum.
When an associate has reason to be absent on his/her regularly scheduled shift, advance notice must be given no later than two (2) hours before the start of that shift, except in emergency situations.
8-
4.08
4.09
5.01
5.02
5.03
An associate, who has not been relieved by the subsequent shift will remain on the job until alternate arrangements can be made, but limited to a 1.5 hour period.
Associates will be required to work the full shift, less approved breaks and lunch periods and it is understood that all associates will apply themselves to their work with a satisfactory effort for the entire shift.
There will be no late starts or early quits or company paid wash-up times.
It is then understood that all operations will function on a continuous basis, with associates working until the next shift takes over.
ARTICLE 5
RATES OF PAY
The rates of pay shall be the ones in effect at the date hereof, as set out in Appendix A and is attached hereto, and forms part of this Agreement.
These rates will be revised in accordance with the Memorandum of Agreement signed between the employer and the union on June 12, 1996.
The rates as so revised shall remain in effect for the balance of the term of this Collective Agreement.
Interim increases will be calculated and applied in accordance with the formula as set out in Appendix B and is attached hereto, and forms part of this Agreement.
In the event of a change to established methods, specifications, established working conditions and job content, which would result in a change in production, the operations affected will be re-evaluated for labour balance, manning levels, and any corresponding changes to the job rate.
(a) The minimum hiring in rate of pay is $11.50 per hour.. DBpnan completion of six (6) months service, associates will be paid the full rate of the job if qualified, with the exception of tire builders whose training rates will progress in the usual manner.
(b)	Job transfer rates:	An associate who is transferred
to another operation, either through displacement or
9
5.03
5.04
5.05
5.06
(b) cont'd
through a transfer request, shall be paid the rate of the job to which he/she has transferred provided he/she can qualify or his/her job rate until such time as he/she can qualify on the new operation, except where the rate of the new operation is less than his/her current rate, in such case he/she will be paid the rate of the new operation.
(1)	If the employer temporarily assigns an associate, for the benefit of the employer, to another operation, while there is work available on the associate's regular operation, he/she will be paid their existing job rate, or the rate of the temporary job, whichever is greater, provided he/she has made a satisfactory effort.
(2)	When an associate is assigned to instruct other associates or is assigned to perform experimental work under the guidance of the Development Department he/she shall be paid his/her job rate.
Time lost on a shift by an associate, owing to breakdown, stock shortage, defective stock or any other reason beyond the associate's but within the employer's control, shall be paid for at the rate of the job. However, in the case of a breakdown beyond the control of both the employer and the associate, the associate shall be paid the job rate only for the period he/she is required by the employer to remain on the job.
Associates on a 5-day, 40 hour schedule shall be paid time and one half for all overtime work except during the period from Saturday midnight to Sunday midnight or from 11:00 p.m. Saturday to 11:00 p.m. Sunday for those associates whose regular shift starts at 11:00 p.m., when double time will be paid.
Associates on a 7-day schedule shall be paid time and one half for all overtime work except for their second scheduled day off which shall be paid at double time.
Overtime premium shall not be paid twice for the same hours worked.
5.07
5.08
5.09
5.10
5.11
5.12
- 10 -
An associate not previously scheduled to work who is called to work and consequently works in an emergency on Sunday or on a holiday, or at any time between one (1) hour after he/she has left work and two (2)hours before his/her next scheduled shift, shall receive either four (4) hours at his/her regular rate of pay, or regular rate of pay plus premium pay applicable for actual time worked, whichever is the greater.
When an associate has not been notified of a change in his/her starting time and he/she comes to work at his/her customary time, he/she shall be paid his/her job rate for four (4) hours of his/her regular shift, provided that the associate has advised the employer of his/her last and correct address. This shall apply only when conditions are within the employer's control. Such associates may be offered other suitable work, and if he/she refuses to accept such work he/she shall forfeit such pay.
When an associate reports for work on his/her scheduled shift and is sent home by reason of some breakdown in the factory, he/she shall be paid his/her job rate for four (4) hours of his/her regular shift, provided that the conditions which caused the breakdown were within the employer's control. Such associate may be offered other suitable work, and if he/she refuses to accept such work he/she shall forfeit such pay.
In the case of an emergency where it is necessary for the employer to send an associate home before the conclusion of his/her regular shift in order to have him/her report for work on a later shift, the associate will be given the privilege of completing up to a maximum of four (4) hours of work on his/her regular shift before going home. Payment will be made for such work at the regular straight time rate for hours worked on his/her regular shift. All hours worked on his/her later shift will be paid at the rate of time-and-one-half. In all such cases the associate affected must accept and complete the work assignment given to him/her by the employer in order to qualify for a benefit under this subsection.
An associate who is injured in the factory and is treated in the factory or is sent to an outside hospital shall be paid at his/her job rate for time lost on his/her shift.
An associate will be paid his/her job rate for time lost on his/her operation if he/she is called away from same by his/her employer. This does not apply, however, in
5.12
5.13
5.14
5.15
5.16
cont'd
11
cases where disciplinary action is warranted. If it is necessary to bring someone in on their day off to investigate the incident, they will be paid their job rate at straight time for the duration of the meeting.
Each member of an associate committee who is present at special meetings called by the employer, and with the
employer present at the regular monthly meeting with the employer, or at 3rd and 4th step grievance meetings with the employer shall be paid his/her job rate for the period until the time at which the meeting is adjourned. Each member of the Bargaining Committee shall also be paid at his/her job rate for time spent, to a minimum of eight (8) hours in any one (1) day for days in which meetings are scheduled with the employer during negotiations for renewal of agreements until such time as application is made for conciliation services.
The designated steward or local union official representative will be paid at his/her job rate for time spent making time studies authorized by the employer or calculations therefrom or to a maximum of two (2) working days while examining new or revised disputed rates in the time study department or while undergoing training conducted by the employer or authorized by the employer. For the purpose of this provision, consent for time off does not necessarily constitute authorization for 'payment.
If settlement of the grievance results in an adjustment in the contested job rate, it shall be made retroactive to the effective date of the rate, but not to exceed 180 days on the operation.
Associates shall be granted shift premium for all hours worked between 7:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. as follows:
(a)	$.50 per hour effective June 3, 1996.
(b)	$.55 per hour effective February 13, 1998.
Any associate who is required to serve on a jury or as a witness subpoenaed by the crown shall be paid the difference between the amount paid for such service and his/her job rate for the time lost from his/her regularly scheduled work shift by reason of such service, subject to the following provisions:
(a)	Associates must notify their area manager within twenty four (24) hours after receipt of notice of
5.16 (
5.17
) cont'd
12
selection for jury duty or subpoenaed as a crown witness.
(b)	Any associate called for jury duty or who is
subpoenaed as a crown witness and who is temporarily excused from attendance at court must report for work if a reasonable period of time remains to be worked in his/her shift.
(c) Associates selected for jury duty or who are subpoenaed as a crown witness who are on other than first shift shall be assigned to the first shift for those days they are required to serve. Anyone called for jury duty or subpoenaed as a crown witness on a Monday and is scheduled to work the preceding Sunday, will be given the Sunday off without pay and will be required to work the Monday in lieu of Sunday for eight (8) hours at straight time less the time spent at court. (as per (b) above)
(d)	In order to be eligible for such payment, the
associate must furnish a written statement from the appropriate public official showing the date and time served and the amount of pay received.
(e)	Should an associate’s scheduled vacation be affected due to his/her selection for jury duty or his/her being subpoenaed as a crown witness, the area manager may reschedule said associate’s vacation, if he/she so requests in the current year provided the company is willing to do so.
An associate on the active payroll of the company who is excused by the employer solely because of the death and funeral of a parent, parent-in-law, spouse, common-law spouse covered under the Goodyear benefit system, child, child-in-law, common-law child covered under the Goodyear benefit
system, grandchild, grandparent, spouse's grandparent,brother/sister, brother/sister-in-law,
spouse's brother/sister-in-law or a dependant who lives in the household of the associate, will be compensated at his/her job rate upon presentation of proof of death for time lost by him/her from his/her regular working schedule by reason of such absence, up to a maximum of 24 working hours, commencing with the date of the death for each such death and funeral. Time off will not be paid
5.17
5.18
5.19
6.01
6.02
cont'd
13
beyond the date of the funeral unless prior arrangements are made with the department manager, which will not be unreasonably denied.
This provision to apply when it is necessary for the associate to make funeral arrangements, and/or attend the funeral.
For the purpose of this section, a step-parent or foster parent shall be considered as a parent and a step-child or foster-child shall be considered as a child only where the step-parent or foster parent has taken the place of the natural parent in relation to such child and is not in receipt of any financial aid for support of such child.
No person on the payroll of the Company outside of the bargaining unit shall perform any part of the work normally performed by members of the bargaining unit. However, this provision will not prohibit instructions, the training of new associates, the handling of emergency situations or training of the Production Squadron training group.
Boxed earnings and shift differential will be added separately.
ARTICLE 6 SENIORITY
Seniority shall be calculated as from the date of the associate’s first working day for the employer.
Associates hired with identical service dates will use relative age as the factor for determining seniority.
The older associate will be deemed to have the most factory seniority.
(1)	An associate shall lose his/her seniority when
he/she resigns or is discharged.
(2)	A laid off associate shall lose his/her seniority
whenever he/she fails to:
6.02 cont'd
14
(a) Inform the employer of the address at which he/she can be reached when required to report to work. Address changes may be forwarded by mail, addressed to the Personnel Department, and will be acknowledged in writing;
(b)	Notify the employer of his/her intention to
return to work within one (1) working day after having been notified to do so by messenger or within three (3) working days after a notice to do so has been sent by registered mail or telegram, in either case to his/her last address on the records of the employer;
(c)	Report for work within seven (7) days after
he/she has stated his/her intention to return to work.
In each of such cases, his/her employment and his/her seniority shall terminate at once without notice or other act on the part of the employer; provided that the provisions of subsections (b) or (c) do not apply if the associate furnishes a satisfactory reason to the employer within thirty (30) days of his/her failure. This exception may be made only once in favour of any one associate.
(3)	An associate with seniority who is laid off with less than five (5) years of factory seniority and is not recalled to work by the employer during the following two (2) year period shall thereupon lose his/her seniority. An associate who is laid off with five (5) years or more of factory seniority and is not recalled to work by the employer during the following five (5) year period shall thereupon lose his/her seniority.
(4)	(a) In any one layoff period, a former associate
with seniority in layoff status who held less than five (5) years of seniority at time of layoff, shall be entitled to accumulate seniority held at time of layoff but in no event shall such accumulation of seniority exceed one (1) year.
6.02 4(b)
- 15
(b)	In any one layoff period, a former associate with seniority in layoff status, who held five
(5)	years or more of seniority at time of layoff, shall be entitled to accumulate seniority and service to a maximum of two (2) years.
(c)	The accumulation of seniority and service as
provided under this subsection will be credited to an associate upon his/her return to work.
6.03	(1) An associate absent from work because of bodily
injuries caused by accident or sickness and qualified to receive weekly indemnity benefits under the terms of the Health and Life Insurance Agreement in effect from time to time between the employer and the union, shall be entitled to accumulate seniority and service during the period of his/her absence on the following basis:
(a)	An associate who has less than five (5) years of continuous service with the employer will be entitled to accumulate seniority and service for a maximum period of one (1) year, but his/her accumulated seniority and service shall not exceed his/her service with the employer as of the day on which he/she last worked prior to his/her illness.
(b)	An associate who has five (5) or more years of continuous service with the employer, will be entitled to accumulate seniority and service for a maximum period of two (2) years.
(c)	An associate who is absent from work because of bodily injury caused by accident or sickness and, under.the advice of a doctor and at the discretion of the employer, returns to work on an operation other than his/her own, shall be allowed to accumulate his/her regular crew seniority while on such operation for the length of time of such assignment, to a maximum period of three (3) months, or for a period equal to the number of calendar days he/she was absent because of such accident or sickness whichever is greater. His/her accumulated crew seniority shall not exceed his/her factory seniority.
6.03 2
16
(2)	The provisions of subsection (1) shall in no way
limit the accumulation of seniority and service by an associate who is receiving Worker's' Compensation Benefits.
(3)	An associate who is absent from work because of
bodily injury caused by accident or sickness and who has accumulated seniority and service in accordance with the provisions of Section 6.03 shall be entitled to retain such accumulated service and seniority together with his/her prior credited service and seniority so long as he/she remains disabled because of injury and is not able to return to work or to accept other employment. If he/she should accept other employment during such absence he/she shall be deemed to have resigned.
6.04	(1) An associate who is selected as a delegate to a
convention of the United Steelworkers of America, the	Canadian Labour	Congress, the Alberta
Federation of Labour, or specific union duties or municipal elective duties, may apply to his/her foreman for time off to attend such duties and will be granted such time as may be necessary for this purpose provided that such leave will not interfere with the efficient operation of the factory. Under this provision, not more than one (1) associate from each division may be absent at the same time. The Company will not limit the number of members of the Bargaining Committee who are entitled to attend grievance meetings beyond Step II.
(2)	After normal placement under Section 6.09 the
President, Vice President, Secretary or Treasurer, in order of priority, and Executive Board members, in order of factory seniority, will not be laid off factory employment while there is work to be performed in the plant. In such event he/she shall displace the associate with the least seniority in the factory. The displaced associate will be laid off.
(3)	An associate who is elected or selected for full time duty as an officer for, or representative of, the United Steelworkers of America or to the executive staff of the Canadian Labour Congress or to the Alberta Federation of Labour, which assignment will take him/her away from his/her employment with the employer, may apply in writing for leave of absence; such leave of absence shall be requested and granted yearly and shall cancel
6.04
6.05
6.06
cont 'd
17
itself automatically upon termination of this Collective Agreement. For two (2) years following the date the leave of absence is granted the associate will accumulate seniority and service for employment reinstatement and thereafter will retain seniority for as long as his/her leave of absence continues in force. Following the termination of his/her leave of absence and his/her immediate return to work for the employer, he/she shall be reinstated to all privileges of employment and he/she shall be offered the same work in the department which he/she had left or similar work at the then current rate of pay for such work.
For pension purposes only, such associates will be credited with the seniority and service which he/she had attained up to the time his/her leave of absence had been granted and will also be entitled to accumulated seniority and service, but his/her accumulated seniority and service, shall not exceed his/her service with the employer as of the day on which he/she last worked prior to his/her leave of absence. Such associate will not have to return to active employment with the employer in order to qualify for a pension or severance award if otherwise eligible for the same. The Pension Plan in effect at the date of the associate's application for retirement shall be the Pension Plan applicable to him/her.
Application of Section 6.04 (3) is conditional upon the Pension Plan receiving all necessary approvals from relevant government authorities.
The probationer shall be a temporary associate for all the time of his/her probationary period. His/her employment may be terminated at any time without reference to seniority and in no event shall the employer have an obligation to rehire him/her or offer him/her work. It is understood, however, that he/she has all other applicable rights as contained under this Agreement. In the event of lay-offs, positions held by probationers will be included in the lay-off procedure.
No associate with seniority shall be laid off in a department of the factory before all probationers in the factory are laid off.
- 18 -
6.07	Notwithstanding any provisions that may be contained in this Article to the contrary, no associate shall be assigned or recalled to any classified operation for which he/she is not then qualified, except where the provisions set forth in Section 6.09 are applicable. The employer may assign or transfer any associate to an operation for a period in which to qualify.
SENIORITY PROVISIONS - ENGINEERING DTVTSTON
6.08	(1) The associates of the engineering division are not
included in the classified and unclassified job seniority system as outlined in Sections 6.09 and 6.11 of this article. These associates shall be subject to layoff and recall only within their own division based on qualifications, and their seniority rights shall be determined only in relation to each other in that division under a department seniority system.
(2)	LAYOFFS from a particular department shall be made according to department seniority, provided that if the associate whose work has been terminated has had previous satisfactory experience of three (3) months of actual work on another operation in the same department, he/she may displace the associate on that operation with less department seniority than himself/herself; any associate so displaced and who has had previous satisfactory experience of three (3) months of actual work on another operation in the same department shall have the same privilege as the associate above, whose work has been terminated, until the layoff procedure reaches the associate with the least department seniority in the department; said associate with the least department seniority in the department shall be laid off from factory employment.
(3)	RECALLS to a department will be made in the reverse order of layoff provided the associate recalled is qualified to fill the vacancy.
(4)	An associate of the engineering division may request a
transfer from the engineering division to a production department provided he/she is qualified, and an associate of the production department may request a transfer to the engineering division provided he/she is qualified and is considered by the company to be the best candidate for the job.
- 19 -
6.08	cont'd
(5)	If associates of the engineering division are being laid off and there are vacancies in the production departments for which they can qualify they may be offered such jobs until such time as their regular jobs are again available.
(6)	Associates in the engineering division who are about to
be laid off shall be given the opportunity to displace associates in production in accordance with Section 6.09
(1)	(c) and (d) using their factory seniority.
LAYOFFS - PRODUCTION DEPARTMENTS
6.09	When it becomes necessary to layoff or surplus an associate, the associate with the least seniority on either the classified or unclassified jobs affected will be considered the surplus associate, and he/she will have the right to displace other associates with less s eni ori ty as fol l ows :
(1)	Associates on Classified Jobs
The surplus associate from a classified job shall:
(a)	Displace the associate with the least seniority on any other classified job in the department on which he/she has classified job seniority provided his/her factory seniority is sufficient to displace such associate.
(b)	Displace the associate with the least seniority on
any unclassified job in the department on which he/she is qualified, provided his/her factory seniority is sufficient to do so, and failing that, shall displace the associate with the least seniority in the unclassified job group in the department, providing his/her factory seniority is sufficient to displace such associate.
(c)	Displace the associate with the least seniority in
the classified group in the factory on which he/she has classified job seniority, providing his/her factory seniority is sufficient to displace such associate.
(d)	Displace the associate with the least seniority in
the unclassified group in the factory provided that his/her factory seniority is sufficient to displace such associate.
6.09 cont'd
20
(2)	Associates on Unclassified Jobs
The surplus associate from an unclassified job shall:
(a)	Displace an associate with the least seniority in a classified job on which he/she has classified job seniority providing his/her factory seniority is sufficient to displace such associate.
(b)	Displace an associate with the least seniority on any other unclassified job in the department on which he/she is qualified, providing that his/her factory seniority is sufficient to do so, and failing that, shall displace the associate with the least seniority in the unclassified job group in the department providing his/her factory seniority is sufficient to displace such associate.
(c)	Displace the associate with the least seniority in the unclassified jobs in the factory, if his/her factory seniority entitles him/her to displace such associate. The displaced associate in turn shall be laid off.
(3)	Because of the existing ratio of classified to unclassified, an associate with three (3) or more years of factory seniority who is about to be laid off from the factory may displace an associate with less factory seniority on a classified job on which he/she has not completed the classified job seniority requirement.
It is understood that Subsection 6.09 (3) will in no way limit the right of the employer to maintain a competent work force, and failing this, the associates will be laid off.
(4)	When it becomes necessary to reduce the number of associates in a crew, the associates with the least crew seniority on the job affected shall be considered surplus associates and shall displace others in the crew according to crew seniority as follows and in accordance with Appendix (c).
Regression within crews shall take place as follows:
(i)	A surplus associate from one group shall displace the associate with the least crew seniority in the group immediately below the group in which he/she was working, provided his/her crew seniority is sufficient to do so. The displaced associate shall have the same privilege in the group below his/hers;
22
6.11 cont'd
(4)	In the event of a vacancy remaining in a classified group after the procedure in paragraph three (3) above has been observed, the associate with the longest factory seniority in the unclassified group in layoff status may be recalled to fill the vacancy if he/she can qualify.
6.12 (a) Associates who have transferred to positions outside the bargaining unit prior to February 13, 1996, and who had at least one (1) year of seniority in the bargaining unit prior to transfer, shall be granted the factory seniority held at the time of transfer out of the bargaining unit upon being transferred back into the bargaining unit for the purpose of finding their rightful place in the factory, provided such service outside the bargaining unit has been accumulated in the Medicine Hat Plant. After the expiration of sixteen (16) months after transferring back to the bargaining unit, he/she shall be granted factory seniority equivalent to their continuous service with the employer.
(b)	Associates transferred to positions outside the bargaining unit after February 12, 1996 and who had at least one (1) year of seniority in the bargaining unit prior to transfer, shall be granted the factory seniority held at the time of transfer out of the bargaining unit upon being transferred back into the bargaining unit for the purpose of finding their rightful place in the factory, provided such service outside the bargaining unit has been accumulated in the Medicine Hat plant.
(c)	Such associate will take his/her place in the factory in the following manner:
(1) He/she may displace the associate with the least factory seniority on an unclassified job in his/her previous department, provided his/her factory seniority at the time of his/her transfer outside the bargaining unit so entitles him/her.
(2)	He/she may displace the associate with the least factory seniority on an unclassified job in the factory provided his/her factory seniority at the time of transfer outside the bargaining unit so entitles him/her.
(3)	An associate who has returned to the bargaining unit under this section will be permitted to exercise his/her bumping rights only in accordance with Subsection 6.12 (1) or (2) until the expiration of nine (9) months from the date he/she first returns to the bargaining unit.
- 23
6.13 (1) An associate who wishes to transfer from one operation to another shall lodge a written request "Transfer on File" with the Personnel Department, which shall keep all such requests on file.
(2)	"Transfer on File" requests will be submitted to the Company by the associate requesting a transfer. No associate shall be allowed to have in force more than one
(1)	"transfer on file" at one time. All "transfer on file" requests must state the department (where applicable) or job classification to which the associate wishes to be transferred. Each "transfer on file" will automatically cancel any previous "transfer on file" requests made by the same associate. Refusing a transfer .when offered automatically cancels the "transfer on file" request.
(3)	When the first vacancy occurs, it will be posted seventy-two (72) hours (exclusive of Saturday, Sunday or holidays) before being filled. The associate with the longest factory seniority, on the list of applicants to transfer who can qualify, shall be given the first opportunity to transfer, except where an associate in a laid off status from that operation has more seniority than the applicant for transfer. (See 6.08 (4) for transfers into the engineering division). The second vacancy created will be posted and filled as outlined in this subsection.
(4)	The third and fourth vacancies created will be filled using the "Transfer on File" system as described in Article 6.13 (1) and (2). The associate with the longest factory seniority who had filled out a "Transfer on File" request for that department (where applicable) or job classification, prior to the filling of the second vacancy, and who can qualify, shall be given the first opportunity to transfer, except where an associate in a laid off status from that operation, has more seniority than the applicant for transfer.
(5)	The fifth vacancy created will be filled with a new hire.
(6)	If the associate fails to qualify on the new operation after the usual learning period, he/she may return to his/her previous department, providing a vacancy exists. If there is no vacancy in his/her previous department he/she may displace the associate with the least factory seniority in the unclassified job group in the department provided his/her factory seniority is sufficient to displace such associate. Failing that, he/she shall
- 24 -
displace the associate with the least factory seniority in the unclassified job group in the factory provided his/her factory seniority is sufficient to displace such associate.
(7)	When an associate is transferred, he/she shall be paid in accordance with the wage rate provided for in Section 5.03, and he/she shall accept the prevailing wage rate scale of the operation to which he/she has transferred. The rate change will not be made until the associate has actually started training or working on the awarded job. An associate's experience and effort may warrant a higher rate as determined by the Company.
(8)	An associate who has been transferred under the
provisions of Section 6.13 will not be permitted to file another application for transfer until expiration of sixteen (16) months from the date the job is awarded, or twelve (12) from the date on which the associate started the new job, whichever is shorter.
All new associates will not be permitted to file for a transfer until the expiration of sixteen (16) months from the date they are awarded their first permanent position. However, prior to hiring from outside, the Company may consider allowing these associates to transfer.
(9)	Whenever vacancies occur in a crew or when new crews are formed the crew or crews shall progress as follows:
(a)	The associate with the longest crew seniority in the group below that in which the vacancy occurs, will advance to the vacancy provided he/she wishes to do so and can qualify.
(b)	The associate with the longest crew seniority in the next lowest group will advance to the position vacated through the progression above, and so on until the bottom position on the crew becomes vacant.
(c)	This position shall be filled through the transfer
system.
An assiociate s^11 have the right to examine his/her seniority records at any time in the Personnel Department. A seniority l“ist sh'all-doe posted in each department showing the names of all the associates in said department. This list will be revised by the employer at regular intervals of approximately six (6) months, and each revision will be posted in the
- 26 -
ARTICLE 7
DESIGNATED HOLIDAYS
7.01	A holiday will be observed for a twenty-four (24) hour
period from 8:00 a.m. on the day of the holiday to 8:00 a.m. the day following the holiday or other mutually agreed to starting times. When a holiday occurs it may be necessary for some associates to work after 8:00 a.m. to complete work in progress or to close down properly for the holiday. In departments where a seven (7) day schedule is required and/or in maintenance departments, the minimum number of associates necessary to keep the factory in operating condition shall work on the holiday. From time to time emergencies may arise which will make it necessary for certain associates to work on a holiday in order that other associates will not suffer loss of time.
7.02	(a) Associates who qualify will be paid an amount equal to one (1) standard shift but not exceeding eight (8) hours for each of the following designated holidays:
New Year’s Day Good Friday Victoria Day Canada Day Labour Day Thanksgiving Day Christmas Day Civic Holiday Remembrance Day
and three (3) other holidays which will be mutually agreed upon by the company and the union before April 1st of the year in which the holidays occur.
If an additional statutory holiday is proclaimed by either level of Government, such holiday would take the place of one of the floaters.
(b)	If a designated holiday falls on a Saturday or Sunday it shall be observed on the preceding Friday or the following Monday, or another date mutually agreed to by the Company and the Union.
(c)	In any year in which the Civic Holiday falls during a plant vacation shutdown period, the Monday following the vacation shutdown period will be observed as Civic Holiday, or another date mutually agreed to by the Company and the Union.
7.03
7.04
7.05
7.06
- 27 -
In order to qualify, an associate must be on the payroll and must have worked the last scheduled shift before the holiday and the first scheduled shift after the holiday. In a case where there are circumstances beyond the associate's control and the associate could have worked if the factory had operated, payment for a holiday may be made upon recommendation of the associate's Area Manager and approved by the Personnel Manager and the Plant Manager. Subject to the above, an associate who is absent because of sickness or accident evidenced by a doctor's certificate and limited to a thirty (30) day period inclusive of Saturday and Sunday, which period includes such designated holiday, shall receive holiday pay. There shall be deducted from such pay any payments which the associate received as the result of such illness.
Payment for designated holidays shall be calculated as follows:
All associates shall be paid eight (8) hours multiplied by their job rates.
An associate who is required to work on a designated holiday, shall be paid double time for time worked in addition to his/her holiday pay.
An associate shall receive holiday pay for a holiday that occurs either during his/her regular vacation or the day before or the day after his/her regular vacation period provided that the said associate actually works on his/her last regularly scheduled shift prior to and on his/her first regularly scheduled shift following his/her vacation period and such holiday.
In a case where an associate is absent on his/her regular scheduled shift before or his/her first regular scheduled shift after such holiday and vacation and such absence is excused, payment for the holiday may be made upon a recommendation as outlined in Section 7.03.
Subject to the above, an associate who is absent because of sickness or accident evidenced by a doctor's certificate and limited to a thirty (30) day period inclusive of Saturday and Sunday, which period includes such designated holiday, shall receive holiday pay for a holiday that occurs either during his/her regular vacation or on the day before or the day after his/her regular vacation period. There shall be deducted from such pay any payments which the associate receives as the result of such illness.
- 28 -
An associate who is laid off within a period of five (5) working days immediately preceding a holiday and who actually performed his/her assigned work on the day of layoff shall be entitled to receive holiday pay for such holiday.
ARTICLE 8 VACATIONS
For the purpose of computing vacation pay, the vacation year will be the calendar year.
For vacation purposes, the vacation week is deemed to begin as of 7:00 a.m. Sunday.
For the purpose of scheduled vacation, the vacation year will be from May 1 in one year to April 30 of the following year, except in the first year in the agreement when the vacation year will be January 1, 1996 to April 30, 1997.
8.02	(1) An associate with less than one (1) year of continuous
service as of December 31 of the previous calendar year shall be granted one (1) day of vacation for each complete month worked during the previous vacation year.
(2)	An associate with one (1) year but less than five (5)
years of continuous service as of December 31 of the previous year shall be granted two (2) weeks of vacation.
(3)	An associate with five (5) years or more but less than
twelve (12) years of continuous service as of December 31 of the previous year shall be granted three (3) weeks of vacation.
(4)	An associate with twelve (12) years or more but less than
twenty (20) years of continuous	service	as of December	31
of the previous year shall	be	granted	four (4) weeks	of
vacation.
(5)	An associate with twenty (20) years or more but less
than twenty five (25) years	of	service	as of December	31
of the previous year shall	be	granted	five (5) weeks	of
vacation.
(6)	An associate with twenty five (25) years or more of
continuous service as of December 31 of the previous year shall be granted six (6) weeks of vacation.
8.03	(1) An associate entitled to a vacation as outlined in
Subsection 8.02 (1) and (2) will receive vacation pay equal to four (4) percent of the actual earnings received by him/her during the previous calendar year.
7.07
8.01
8.03 cont'd
29 -
(2)	An associate entitled to a vacation as outlined in Subsection 8.02 (3) will receive vacation pay egual to six (6) percent of the actual earnings received by him/her during the previous calendar year.
(3)	An associate entitled to a vacation as outlined in Subsection 8.02 (4) will receive vacation pay egual to eight (8) percent of the actual earnings received by him/her during the previous calendar year.
(4)	An associate entitled to a vacation as outlined in Subsection 8.02 (5) will receive pay egual to ten (10) percent of the actual earnings received by him/her during the previous calendar year.
(5)	An associate who completes five (5) years of continuous service on or before April 24 in the current vacation year shall be granted in the same current vacation year a third week of vacation on his/her completion of five
(5)	years of continuous service in addition to the two (2) weeks of vacation he/she has already been granted for his/her previous calendar year of service and will receive as vacation pay for that third week of vacation two (2) percent of his/her earnings in the previous calendar year.
An associate who completes five (5) years of continuous service after April 24 in the current vacation year shall be granted vacation for the remaining days of the vacation year with pay for his/her remaining regularly s chedul ed days of work.
(6)	An associate who completes twelve (12) years of continuous service on or before April 24 in the current vacation year shall be granted in the same current vacation year a fourth week of vacation on his/her completion of twelve (12) years of continuous service in addition to the three (3) weeks of vacation he/she has already been granted for his/her previous calendar year of service and will receive as vacation pay for that fourth week of vacation two (2) percent of his/her earnings in the previous calendar year.
An associate who completes twelve (12) years of continuous service after April 24 in the current vacation year shall be granted vacation for the remaining days of the vacation year with pay for his/her remaining regularly scheduled days of work.
8.03 cont'd
30
(7)	An	associate	who	completes	twenty (20)	years	of
continuous service on or before April 24 in the current vacation year shall be	granted	in the same	current
vacation year a fifth	week	of	vacation on	his/her
completion of twenty (20)	years	of	continuous service in
addition to the four (4) weeks of vacation he/she has already been granted for his/her previous calendar year of service and will receive as vacation pay for that fifth week of vacation	two	(2)	percent of	his/her
earnings in the previous calendar year.
An	associate	who	completes	twenty (20)	years	of
continuous service after April 24 in the current vacation year	shall be granted vacation for the remaining days	of
the	vacation	year	with pay	for his/her	remaining
regularly scheduled days of work.
(8)	An associate who completes twenty five (25) years of continuous service on or before April 24 in the current vacation year shall be granted in the same current vacation year a sixth week of vacation on his/her completion of twenty five (25) years of continuous service in addition to the five (5) weeks of vacation he/she has already been granted for his/her previous calendar year of service and will receive as vacation pay for that sixth week of vacation two (2) percent of his/her earnings in the previous calendar year.
An associate who completes twenty five (25) years of continuous service after April 24 in the current vacation year shall be granted vacation for the remaining days of the vacation year with pay for his/her remaining regularly scheduled days of work.
(9)	In computing the actual earnings for vacation pay, the
following items sha^ be included:	actual wages earned
(including bonuses and overtime payment), vacation pay for the previous year, Workers' Compensation payments for lost time, Alberta Health Care premiums which are paid by the employer on behalf of the associate, short
work week benefits paid under the Supplemental Unemployment Benefit Plan and weekly indemnity payments paid under the Health and Life Insurance Agreement.
(10)	When an associate has been unable to work during a portion of the preceding calendar year owing to sickness or injury not covered by the Workers' Compensation Act, and for this reason only the vacation pay is less than the minimum mentioned below, the vacation pay shall be
8.03 (10) cont'd
31
increased to a minimum of $225.00 per week, provided that said associate must have worked during some portion of the preceding calendar year and have resumed his/her normal duties not less than one (1) month before vacation is granted.
(11)	An associate with seniority who leaves the employ of the employer for any reason or who dies during his/her employment, if he/she has had vacation or pay in lieu of vacation in the current year, shall be entitled to receive or in the case of death his/her estate shall be entitled to receive four (4) percent of his/her earnings in the current year if he/she has completed one (1) year or more but less than five (5) years of continuous service at the date he/she leaves the employ of the employer or dies, or six (6) percent of his/her earnings in the current year if he/she has completed five (5) years or more but less than twelve (12) years of continuous service at the date he/she leaves the employ of the employer or dies, or eight (8) percent of his/her earnings in the current year if he/she has completed twelve (12) years or more but less than twenty (20) years, of continuous service at the date he/she leaves the employ of the employer or dies, or ten (10) percent of his/her earnings in the current year if he/she has completed twenty (20) years or more of continuous service at the date he/she leaves the employ of the employer or dies.
(12)	An associate with seniority who leaves the employ of the employer for any reason or who dies during his/her employment, if he/she has not had his/her vacation or pay in lieu of vacation in the current vacation year shall be entitled to receive or in the case of death his/her estate shall be entitled to receive such vacation pay in lieu of vacation plus the same applicable percentage of his/her current year's earnings calculated in accordance with the provisions of Subsection 8.03 (11) and based on his/her length of continuous service with the employer.
8.04	Vacations may be taken at any time during the vacation
year, at such time as may be most convenient to the employer, but every effort shall be made to schedule vacations at times suitable to the associate. However, the final right to allot vacations is reserved by the employer so that orderly operation of the plant is assured.
All associates will be given the opportunity, on a factory seniority basis within the Business Centers,
8.04
8.05
9.01
9.02
9.03
32
cont'd
Engineering, Power House and Warehouse, to schedule their vacation until the end of January each year. If vacation dates are not selected by that time they will be taken on first come first serve basis until the end of March. After March 31st the Employer may schedule vacations.
The Company will notify associates of the shutdown plans for the upcoming year before the end of December in each year. However, the Company reserves the right to alter those plans due to changes in requirements, and/or emergency situations.
(1)	An associate is not entitled, under any conditions, to more than six (6) weeks vacation with pay.
(2)	Vacations are not cumulative, and they cannot be deferred until the following vacation year.
ARTICLE 9 UNION SECURITY
Any associate, who is a member of the union in good standing on the effective date of this Agreement, shall maintain his/her membership in the union as a condition of his/her continued employment for the duration of this Collective Agreement to the extent of paying union dues, in accordance with the constitution of the U.S.W.A. as determined by the local union as a condition of acquiring or retaining membership therein.
Any person hired on or after the effective day of this Agreement or transferred therein after such effective date shall make application for union membership and shall as a condition of his/her continued employment maintain his/her union membership on the same terms and to the same extent as provided in subsection 9.01.
All present associates and all new associates, including associates transferred into the bargaining unit shall have their membership dues deducted from their earnings, or from any benefits paid under the Supplemental Unemployment Benefits Plan, whichever, is applicable, by signing the dues authorization forms supplied by the Union.
33
9.04
9.05
The employer will deduct the authorized union dues and assessments from the first pay received in each month for each associate from whom the Payroll Department has received, or may receive during the life of this Agreement, a dues authorization and 'deduction form supplied by the Union.
The deductions shall be made from the first pay due to the associate in each calendar month. The dues so deducted shall be remitted, along with a list of the names of associates from whom such deductions have been made, within one (1) week after the end of the month payable to:
International Secretary-Treasurer United Steelworkers of America Unit D, Box 34223 Vancouver, British Columbia V6J 4N1
(a)	A duplicate itemized statement shall be forwarded as follows to:
United Steelworkers of America Local 628 Box 502
Medicine Hat, Alberta TlA 7G2
cc	United Steelworkers of America
#150 - 2880 Glenmore Trail S.E.
Calgary, Alberta T2C 2E7
(b)	The monthly remittance shall be accompanied by a statement showing the names of each associate from whose pay deductions have been made, and the total amount deducted for the month. Such statements shall also list the names of the associates from whom no deductions have been made and the reasons why, along with any forms required by the International Union.
(c)	The name and associate number of any associate(s) who has left the bargaining unit since the last report.
(d)	The employer agrees to print the amount of total deductions paid by each associate for the previous calendar year on the Income Tax T4 form.
34
9.06	The assignments and authorizations once executed shall be irrevocable for the duration of this Collective Agreement or any renewal thereof, provided that if the termination of this Agreement or any renewal thereof is followed by the execution of a new Agreement, these assignments and authorizations shall be deemed to be automatically renewed for the duration of each new Agreement.
9.07	The Union shall indemnify and save the employer and/or the Trustee of the S.U.B. Fund harmless from any claims, suits, judgements, attachments and from any other form of liability as a result of the employer and/or the Trustee of the S.U.B. Fund making deductions in accordance with the foregoing authorizations and assignments, and the Union will make refunds directly to all associates from whom a wrongful deduction has been made.
ARTICLE 10
GRIEVANCE AND ARBITRATION PROCEDURE
10.01	It is the mutual desire of the parties heret° that complaints of associates shall be adjusted as quickly as possible, and any dispute or complaint between the associate and the employer shall be dealt with as provided hereunder.
10.02	It is agreed that any associate does not have a grievance until he/she or his/her steward has discussed the complaint with his/her supervisor.
10.03	If such complaint is not settled to the satisfaction of the associate concerned the associate shall state the complaint in writing, and when signed by him/her and presented to the steward of his/her department, such complaint shall be considered to be a grievance and subject to the following steps of the grievance procedure:
Step 1 The grievance may be discussed by the steward and/or a union representative with the Production Manager of the division in which the grievance occurred. A decision will be rendered in writing by the Production Manager within a period of three (3) days if possible.
Step 2 If no satisfactory solution is reached at Step 1 of this procedure, the grievance may be discussed by the steward and/or a union representative with the Production Manager and the Industrial Relations Manager of the employer within a period of not more than three (3) working days
10.03 cont'd
35
following a decision at Step 1 of this procedure. A decision will be furnished in writing by these parties within a period of three (3) days if possible.
Step 3 If no satisfactory solution is reached at Step 2 of this procedure the grievance may be discussed by the Bargaining Committee of the union and representatives of the employer designated for this purpose within a period of not more than five (5) working days following a decision at Step 2 of this procedure. A decision will be furnished in writing by the Industrial Relations Manager to the President of the union not later than five (5) working days following the commencement of the discussion in Step 3 if possible.
Step 4 If no satisfactory solution is reached at Step 3 of this procedure, the grievance may be discussed by the Bargaining Committee of the union and a representative of the International Union, and representatives of the employer designated for this purpose within a period of not more than five (5) working days after the receipt by the union of the decision in Step 3.
The Company undertakes to reply, in writing, to the local union within five (5) working days following a Step 4 grievance meeting as outlined in Section 10.03 of the Collective Labour Agreement.
The date of receipt of such letter will constitute the completion of discussion at the Step 4 meeting.
Step 5 If a grievance has not been settled at Step 4, and if the grievance is one which concerns the application, administration, interpretation of alleged violation of the Agreement, it may be referred to a Board of Arbitration by either party. Notice in writing of such reference to a Board of Arbitration must be given to the other party within thirty five (35) working days of the completion of discussion in Step 4. Failing such notice the grievance will be deemed to have been abandoned.
10.04	It is agreed that:
The aggrieved associates shall be at liberty, and may be required by either party, to appear in person at any step of the procedure set forth above.
10.05	Each party will, within three '(3) days of the notice referred to in Step 5, nominate a person to represent it on the Board of Arbitration and notify the other party of
10.05
10.06
10.07
10.08
10.09
10.10
10.11
cont'd
36
the name of such person; the two (2) persons so nominated will forthwith appoint a third person to act as Chairman of the Board of Arbitration. if they are unable to agree upon a Chairman within forty eight (48) hours after receipt of notice of their appointment, they will jointly request the Minister of Labour of the Province of Alberta to appoint a Chairman. In an arbitration case involving rates, the Chairman shall be a competent Industrial Engineer.
Such Chairman together with the two (2) nominees mentioned above shall constitute the Board of Arbitration, and shall meet promptly to hear and consider the grievance with all reasonable dispatch. The decision of the majority of the Board made in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement, shall be final and binding on the employer, the union, and the associate or associates concerned.
Each of the parties will bear the expense of the Arbitrator nominated by it; the parties will jointly bear the expense of the Chairman of the Board.
The Board of Arbitration shall, wherever possible, endeavour to render its decision within thirty (30) days of the conclusion of the hearing of the dispute; provided that failure of the Board to render its decision within the time limit specified shall not deprive it of jurisdiction or vitiate any award that may be made.
The Board of Arbitration shall not have any power to alter or change any of the provisions of this Collective Agreement, or to substitute any new provision for any existing provision, or to give any decision inconsistent with the terms and provisions of this Collective Agreement.
(1)	Any or all of the time limits set forth above may be extended by mutual agreement and any such agreement will be put in writing.
(2)	Upon mutual agreement of the parties a single
arbitrator may be substituted for the Board of Arbitration provided for in Article 10 and in case of such substitution all other applicable provisions of Article 10 will continue to apply so far as they are relevant.
Any dispute between the employer and the union as to the interpretation of this Collective Agreement and any allegation by either party that the other has violated
37
10.11 cont'd
any term of this Collective Agreement shall be deemed to be a grievance when notice in writing thereof has been delivered by the party considering itself aggrieved, to the other party. Such grievance shall be presented at Step 3 of the grievance and arbitration procedures as set forth in this Article.
DISCHARGE CASES
10.12
10.13
10.14
10.15
10.16
(1)	An associate with seniority who claims to have been discharged or suspended unjustly, may file a claim in writing with the Personnel Manager within five (5) working days of ceasing to work, stating that he/she has been unjustly discharged or suspended.
(2)	The employer will undertake to advise in writing, a union official within twenty four (24) hours, the name and department of an associate who is suspended or discharged.
All such cases will be handled at Step 3 of the Grievance Procedure within three (3) working days of the receipt of the claim from the associate who has been discharged or suspended. If no satisfactory solution is reached as a result of the application of Step 3 and 4 of the Grievance Procedure, the dispute shall be subject to arbitration in accordance with the provisions of Article 10.
If it is decided that the associate was unjustly discharged or suspended he/she shall be reinstated, and he/she shall be compensated at his/her regular rate of pay for time lost, subject to the provisions hereinafter provided.
The Board of Arbitration will have the right to increase or decrease the penalty if they feel the circumstances justify such action, and will have authority to determine the amount of pay, if any, the associate is to receive for the period of his/her discharge or suspension if he/she is subsequently reinstated.
In calculating the amount of pay the associate is to receive if reinstated, the Board of Arbitration shall deduct therefrom any monies earned by the associate from other employment and any Unemployment Insurance benefits received by the associate during the period of his/her suspension or discharge and retained by him/her.
10.17
- 38 -
(1)	An associate will be given a copy of any notation concerning his/her misconduct or inefficiency at the time it is placed in his/her personal record. A copy of every notation will be forwarded to the Secretary of the union by the Industrial Relations Manager of the employer.
(2)	Notations reporting offenses, exclusive of the violation of the no-strike provisions in the Agreement, not repeated within a one (1) year period will be disregarded in the administration of discipline.
(3)	Notations reporting offenses involving violation of the no-strike provisions in the Agreement not repeated within a three (3) year period will be disregarded in the administration of discipline.
(4)	An associate when called into the office for reprimands will, upon request, have the right to have a union steward with him/her at any time during the meeting.
ARTICLE 11 MISCELLANEOUS
11.01	The employer will provide reasonable protective devices
and other equipment necessary to protect associates from injury and sickness. The union agrees to co-operate with the employer in the use of these devices and in the elimination of industrial accidents.
A Plant Health & Safety Committee shall be maintained as presently constituted, consisting of not more than four (4) members representing the employer and not more than four (4) members representing the local union. The function of the committee is to facilitate the promotion of safe work practices and accident prevention in the plant.
The committee shall meet not less than once per month in order to discuss safety problems. The committee's function will include a periodic tour of a section of the factory to observe and report on unsafe conditions or procedures. The committee will make recommendations concerning safety in the factory with the status of any recommendation made to be reviewed at each meeting. The committee should periodically verify that adopted recommendations are being complied with.
- 39 -
11.02	Each associate shall use reasonable care for the cleanliness of his/her machine and the immediate working area.
11.03	The employer agrees to permit the union to post notices of meetings and other union business ’or affairs on bulletin boards throughout the factory provided for such purposes; it is agreed, however, that such notices shall be approved by the Personnel Manager and posted by members of the employer's Personnel Department.
11.04	A Bargaining Committee consisting of three (3) members, all of whom shall be regular associates of the employer, shall be selected by the associates who are members of the union, in a manner determined by the union. The employer shall be informed by the union, in writing, of the personnel of the committee and of any changes which may occur from time to time.
11.05	The union recognizes the need for improved methods and agrees to co-operate with the employer in suggesting and introducing such methods and in educating its members in the need of such changes and improvements; the employer and the union agree that, consistent with fair and reasonable labour practices, it is desirable to maintain the best productivity possible.
11.06	The union pledges that it will co-operate with the employer in an effort for the highest quality of product.
11.07	(1) The membership of the production squadron training
group shall not exceed two (2) percent of the associates in the bargaining unit. Bargaining associates shall not be sent home and replaced by production squadron trainees.
The training program for any member will not extend beyond a three (3) year period unless mutually agreed upon by both the company and the union.
(2) Associates recruited from the bargaining unit for the production squadron training program and who fail to meet accepted training standards at any time during the course, will be transferred back to the bargaining unit with their total service credited to them.
11.08	The union shall have the right to select not more than one (1) steward for every fifteen (15) associates on the seniority list. A list of stewards shall be furnished to the employer before the employer is required to recognize them.
40 -
11.09	The following shall be covered by separate Agreements but form part of this Collective Labour Agreement:
(a)	Health and Life Agreement (and attached letters)
(b)	Separation Payment Plan (and attached letter)
(c)	Supplemental Unemployment Benefit Agreement
(and attached letters)
(d)	The Apprentice Training Agreement
(e)	Pension Plan and Severance Award Agreement (and
attached letters)
11.10	The letters of understanding, the letters of intent, and the interimwage increase provisions are attached hereto, and form part of this Agreement.
11.11	The company agrees to provide an annual tool allowance in the amount of $100.00 to associates in departments 4211 and 4216. The purpose of this tool allowance is to compensate maintenance and powerhouse associates for any of their own personal tools which get broken, lost or stolen.
Effective February 1, 1998 the tool allowance will be increased to $150.00 per year.
11.12	The company agrees to allow the Union President up to a maximum of four (4) hours per week off his/her regular job, company paid, in order to work on union/management problems as they occur. The time, if required, will be taken on Wednesday afternoons or other company approved time.
11.13
12.01
12.02
The company agrees to pay up to a yearly maximum of $60.00 for purchase of safety shoes upon proof of purchase.
ARTICLE 12
DURATION OF COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
The Agreement shall be effective on the .third day of June^ 1996, and shall remain in effect guntil the 31st , ~day of December, 1999, and thereafter from year to year unless either party gives to the other party notice in writing of cancellation or of proposals for revision within a period of not less than two (2) months or more than three (3) months prior to the anniversary date.
(1) If either party gives to the other a notice of cancellation in accordance with the provisions of Section 12.01, this Collective Agreement shall terminate in accordance with such notice.
41
12.02 cont'd
(2) If either party gives to the other a notice of proposals for revision in accordance with the provisions of Section 12.01, the parties shall meet to consider the proposed revisions within fifteen (15) days of the date of delivery of such notice. If no agreement on the proposed revisions is reached by midnight of December 31, 1999, or by midnight of any other subsequent anniversary date, as the case may be, this Collective Agreement shall be continued in operation for a period not exceeding one (1) year less one day until a new Agreement is reached or until the procedure contemplated by Section 94 of the Alberta Labour Act has been completed.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto have executed this Agreement this
___________________ _ day of _A C-Tl3 0uO£_	, 1996
LOCAL UNION 628 OF THE UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA
GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
- 42 -
APPENDIX A
Job rates effective June 3, 1996. Rates shown below include all increases (excluding COLA) effective June 3, 1996.
JOB RATES
Department 4026
+ Janitor/Security ..................................... 16.06
DEPARTMENT 4102 - TECHNICAL SERVICE
Q.A. Lab ...
Physical Lab
DEPARTMENT 4211 - ENGINEERING - MAINTENANCE
16.85
16.42
Maintenance (With	ticket) .............................. 19.38
Electrician (With	ticket) .............................. 19.43
Oiler (With ticket) ...................................... 19.38
Oiler (No Ticket)	...................................... 17.52
DEPARTMENT 4216 - ENGINEERING - POWER HOUSE
Shift Engineer (Minimum 4th Class) .................. 19.43
Chief Engineer (Minimum 3rd Class) .................. 19.93
DEPARTMENT 4321
+ Receiving & Shipping Stores ...............
DEPARTMENT 4390 - SERVICE
16.21
16.25
+ Receiving & Shipping ................................ 16.21
Shipper/Tractor Driver .............................. 16.64
DEPARTMENT 4432 - BANBURY
Operator ................
Compounder ..............
Conveyor & Mill Operator + Laydown .................
18.15
17.60
17.60 17.43
DEPARTMENT 4433 - CALENDER
Operator ............................................... 18.36	*
Mill Operator .......................................... 17.84	*
+ Helper ................................................. 17.75	*
* Above rates add $0.25 for fabric operation code 80010
+
Unclassified job
DEPARTMENT 4437 - CEMENT HOUSE
43
Cement Tech........................................... 16.26
DEPARTMENT 4541 - BIAS CUTTER
Operator .............................................. 18.06
Roll Changer .......................................... 17.51
+ Service Person ........................................ 15.95
DEPARTMENT 4542 - BEAD UNIT
Insulate, Build & Wrap + Wrap ..................
DEPARTMENT 4543 - TUBER
17.68
16.08
Tuber/Calender Operator .............................. 18.36
Operator ............................................. 18.05
Mill Operator ........................................ 17.57
Cushion Applier/Skiver ............................... 17.40
+ Tank Pusher/Skiver ................................... 17.42
+ Helper ............................................... 17.32
DEPARTMENT 4544 - BAND UNIT
Band Builder 65" Unit .........
Assist. Band Builder 65" Unit + Reroll Liners .................
17.75
17.44
15.95
DEPARTMENT 4550 AND 4551 - P.B. & F.M. TIRE BUILDING
Tire Builder - Level 1	. .
Tire Builder - Level 2 **
Tire Builder - Level 3 **
+ Service .................
Repair Green Tires ......
** Training rates to allow progression to Level 1
DEPARTMENT 4560 AND 4561 - CURES
18.36
17.52
17.00
16.21
15.99
Cure Passenger/Implement Tires ....................... 16.90
Cure/Trim/Inspect Tractor Tires ...................... 16.90
+ Paint & Line ......................................... 16.20
Mold Changer/Cleaner ................................. 17.98
DEPARTMENT 4570 - ETNAT, INSPECTION
Inspect & Trim Passenger Tires Classifier/Repair Tires .....
16.90
16.22
+
Unclassified job
WAGES:
- 44 -
COLLECTIVE LABOUR AGREEMENT
Effective June 3rd, 1996
General wage increase to all associates .................$0.15/Hour
Inequity increases to all Engineering associates
(Depts. 4211 and 4216 - 29 associates) ..................$0.10/Hour
Inequity increases to Dept. 4321 (Receiving)
2 associates ......................................*.....$0.10/Hour
Inequity increases to Dept. 4560 (Cure, Paint & Line)
16 associates ...........................................$0.10/Hour
Inequity increases to Dept. 4561 (Rear Farm Cure)
4 associates ............................................$0.10/Hour
Inequity increases to Dept. 4570 (Final Finish)
21 associates ..........................*................ $0.10/Hour
Silent C.O.L.A. payment of...............................$0.04/Hour
Effective February 13th 1997;
General wage increase to all associates..................$0.10/Hour
Inequity increases to all Engineering associates
(Depts.4211 and 4216)....................................$0.10/Hour
Effective February 13th 1998:
Inequity increases to all Engineering associates
(Depts. 4211 and 4216) ..................................$0.10/Hour
Effective February 13th 1999:
General Wage increase to all associates..................$0.15/Hour
Inequity increase to all Engineering associates
(Depts. 4211 and 4216) ..................................$0.10/Hour
APPENDIX B
INTERIM WAGE INCREASES
1.	The amount of interim increase shall be calculated and recalculated as provided below on the basis of the Consumer Price Index published by Statistics Canada (1986 = 100) and hereinafter referred to as the C.P.I.
Appendix B cont'd
45
2.	First Year of Agreement
(a)	"The Base for Calculation" - the average C.P.I. for the months of December 1995, January 1996, and February 1996.
(b)	The first adjustment will be calculated and paid as of
June 3, 1996. It will reflect one cent ($.01) per hour for each full .083 points that the average C.P.I. for the months of February 1996, March 1996, and April 1996, exceeds the base for calculation.
(c)	A second adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the
pay period commencing on August	25,	1996.	it	will
reflect one cent ($.01) per hour	for	each	full	.083
points that the average C.P.I. for the months of May 1996, June 1996, and July 1996 exceeds the base for calculation.
(d)	A third adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the
pay period commencing on November 24,	1996.	it	will
reflect one cent ($.01) per hour	for	each	full	.083
points that the average C.P.I. for the months of August 1996, September 1996, and October 1996 exceeds the base for calculation.
(e)	A fourth adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay period commencing on February 23, 1997. it will reflect one cent ($.01) per hour for each full 083 points that the average C.P.I. for the months of November
1996,	December 1996 and January 1997, exceeds the base for calculation.
3.	Second Year of the Agreement
(a)	"The Base for Calculation" - the average C.P.I. for the months of December 1996, January 1997, and February 1997.
(b)	The first adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay period commencing on May 25 1997. it will reflect one cent ($.01) per hour for each full .083 points that the average C.P.I. for the months of February
1997,	March 1997, and April 1997, exceeds the base for calculation.
(c)	A second adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay period commencing on August 31, 1997. it will reflect one cent ($.01) per hour for each full .083 points that the average C.P.I. for the months of May 1997, June 1997, and July 1997 exceeds the base for calculation.
46
Appendix B cont'd
(d)	A third adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay period commencing on November 30, 1997. It will reflect one cent ($.01) per hour for each full .083 points that the average C.P.I. for the months of August 1997, September 1997, and October 1997 exceeds the base for calculation.
(e)	A fourth adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay period commencing on February 22, 1998. It will reflect one cent ($.01) per hour for each full .083 points that the average C.P.I. for the months of November
1997,	December 1997 and January 1998, exceeds the base for calculation.
4.	Third Year of the Agreement
(a)	"The Base for Calculation" - the average C.P.I. for the months of December 1997, January 1998, and February 1998.
(b)	The first adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay period commencing on May 31 1998. It will reflect one cent ($.01) per hour for each full .083 points that the average C.P.I. for the months of February
1998,	March 1998, and April 1998, exceeds the base for calculation.
(c)	A second adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay period commencing on August 30, 1998. It will reflect one cent ($.01) per hour for each full .083 points that the average C.P.I. for the months of May 1998, June 1998, and July 1998 exceeds the base for calculation.
(d)	A third adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay period commencing on November 29, 1998. It will reflect one cent ($.01) per hour for each full .083 points that the average C.P.I. for the months of August 1998, September 1998, and October 1998 exceeds the base for calculation.
(e)	A fourth adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay period commencing on February 28, 1999. It will reflect one cent ($.01) per hour for each fu.ll .083 points that the average C.P.I. for the months of November 1998, December 1998, and January 1999 exceeds the base for calculation.
- 47 -
Appendix B cont'd
5.	Fourth Year of the Agreement
(a)	"The Base for Calculation" - the average C.P.I. for the months of December 1998, January 1999, and-February 1999.
(b)	The first adjustment will be calculated and paid as of
the pay period commencing	on May 30	1999.	It	will
reflect one cent ($.01) per	hour	for	each	full	.083
points that the average C.P.I. for the months of February 1999, March 1999, and April 1999, exceeds the base for calculation.
(c)	A second adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the
pay period commencing on August	29,	1999.	It	will
reflect one cent ($.01) per	hour	for	each	full	.083
points that the average C.P.I. for the months of May 1999, June 1999, and July 1999 exceeds the base for calculation.
(d)	A third adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay period commencing on November 28, 1999. It will reflect one cent ($.01) per hour for each full .083 points that the average C.P.I. for the months of August 1999, September 1999, and October 1999 exceeds the base for calculation.
6.	The interim increase will be considered as earnings, but will be boxed separately from other wage payments on the associate’s time sheet.
7.	In the event Statistics Canada does not issue the appropriate Consumer Price Index on or before the date on which an adjustment is to be calculated, any adjustment required will be made at the beginning of the first pay period following receipt of the index.
8.	No adjustments, retroactive or otherwise, shall be made due to any revision which may later be made in any published Consumer Price Index by Statistics Canada.
9.	Continuation of the interim adjustments is dependent upon the availability of the official Statistics Canada Consumer Price Index calculated on the same basis and in the same form as that published for February 1996.
10.	Each adjustment specified in the interim wage increase formula will replace the previous adjustment, if any, in its entirety except the fourth adjustment in the first year of the Agreement will be carried over throughout the second, third
48
Appendix B cont'd
and fourth years of the Agreement, the fourth adjustment in the second year of the Agreement will be carried throughout the third and fourth year of the Agreement, and the fourth adjustment in the third year of the Agreement will be carried throughout the fourth year of the Agreement.
APPENDIX C
CREW PROGRESSIONS AND REGRESSIONS
Crew progressions and regressions will be applied to the following crews and order of progression of each unit will be as follows:
BANBURY	TUBER	
1. Operator	1.	Operator
2. Compounder	2.	Mill Operator
3. Mill Operator	3.	Cushion Applier/Skiver
4. Laydown	4.	Tank Pusher/Skiver
	5.	Helper
CALENDER	65	" BAND UNIT
1. Operator	1.	Band Builder
2. Mill Operator	2.	Assistant Band Builder
3. Helper - Splitter/	3.	Reroll Liners
Gum Operator
4.	Helper - Letoff
5.	Helper - Windup
BIAS CUTTER
1.	Operator
2.	Roll Changer
3.Service B.C.
The two compounders on the banbury will progress or regress based on crew seniority as both associates do the same job.
When a condition occurs where more than 50% of the total job positions in any single status are filled by associates who cannot qualify for advancement or who wish not to advance, the company reserves the right in all cases to make the final decision on whether to remove the associate with the least crew seniority of the non-progressive associates from their status. The associate so affected will revert to the next lower position within the crew to enable other associates who are willing to progress to do so.
- 49 -
Appendix C cont'd
In order that training needs may be filled, associates will be rotated at the discretion of the Area Manager. This training program will not change the associate’s priority to any vacancy which may occur while he/she is involved in the training rotation.
Crew seniority does not apply however to make-up crews which may be required to operate equipment outside of their regular department. In these instances crews shall accumulate seniority on their regular equipment only.
Crew seniority will not apply in temporary emergency situations. However, normal crew progression and regression will be followed, if possible, and providing a competent working force can be maintained at all times. For normal vacation purposes, when an associate is on his/her regular scheduled vacation, progressions will be followed within the absent associate’s crew only.
An associate shall not attain crew seniority until he/she has worked in the same crew or crews for three (3) cumulative months in any twenty four (24) month period.
APPENDIX D
5 DAY, OR 7 DAY WORK SCHEDULE
This Agreement is made and entered into as of the 3rd day of June 1996 between Goodyear Canada Inc. with respect to it’s associates at it’s Medicine Hat Plant and Warehouse located at 1271 - 12th Street N.W., hereinafter referred to as the "employer" and Local Union 628 of the United Steelworkers of America, hereinafter referred to as the "Union".
It is understood and agreed that in order to make full use of the Medicine Hat Plant, the employer may schedule any operations including warehouse operations, as required, on a 5 day, or 7 day, work schedule.
When it becomes necessary for the employer to schedule one or more of the plant’s operations on the 7 day work schedule, a fourth crew will be instituted and a shift schedule will be adopted which would schedule each associate to work a regular schedule averaging forty-two (42) hours per week based on a thirty-six (36) hour and a forty-eight (48) hour rotation.
The employer undertakes to provide the local union with a minimum notification of one (1) month prior to implementation of any new schedule. The employer further undertakes that upon implementation of any new schedule, reasonable efforts will be made to ensure continuity of the schedule.
Letter of Understandins #1
50
It is the policy of the Company to perform maintenance and engineering work with its own associates, provided it has the manpower, skills, equipment and facilities to do so -and can do the work competitively and within prescribed time limits.
The Company will place primary importance on maintaining maximum employment opportunities for its skilled trade associates.
The Company will continue to notify the Union in advance if possible, when an outside contractor is to be engaged to work in the plant.
Letter of Understandins #2
This will confirm the Company's commitments with respect to the closure of Medicine Hat Plant covered by this Agreement. In the event a full plant closure occurs during the life of the Agreement:
1.	The Company and/or Employer will notify the Local and International Union in accordance with any applicable Alberta status covering the subject.
2.	Following such notification, the Local and International Union will have the right to discuss and explore with the Company and/or Employer any possible means of adverting the closure.
3.	If attempts to avert the plant closure are not successful, Company and/or Employer and Union representatives will meet to negotiate the manner in which the closure is carried out.
Letter of Understandins #3
This will serve to confirm the understanding reached during recent negotiations regarding time lost on a shift where it pertains to Article 6.04 (1).
An associate who is granted leave in accordance with Section
6.04	(1) shall have his/her time considered part of his/her regular shift hours in determining overtime hours on regular departmental work.
Letter of Understandins #4
This letter will confirm the understanding reached during recent negotiations.
- 50
- 51
Letter of Understanding #4 cont'd
In the event that a holiday falls during an associate's regular vacation period and provided that the said associate actually works on his/her last regularly scheduled shift prior to and on his/her first regularly scheduled shift following the vacation period and such holiday, the associate shall at his/her option:
1.	Take an additional day of vacation at a mutually agreed to time during that year;
OR
2.	Be paid one (1) additional day's pay in lieu of extending his/her vacation period.
Letter of Understandins #5
It is understood and agreed that piecework has been removed from the Medicine Hat Plant. All reference to piecework has been deleted from the Collective Labour Agreement.
Should a piecework wage payment system be reinstated at any time in the future, the piecework clauses from the February 13, 1987 - February 12, 1990, Collective Labour Agreement will be used as the basis of negotiations between the two parties.
Letter of Understandins _J_6
This will serve to confirm the understanding reached during recent negotiations regarding the hiring of summer vacation relief.
The Company will hire summer vacation relief, as required, during the period of May through August. These associates will be paid at the current hiring-in rate for the term of their employment.
Overtime provisions will not apply except for statutory holidays when they will be paid in accordance with Article 7.04.
No overtime will be paid until the completion of 40 hours work per week or, in the case of associates on the 7 day work schedule, 32 hours one week and 48 the next.
This provision will not apply to any current students who may return to employment but will apply to all future students.
52
Letter of Understanding #7
This letter will serve to confirm the understanding reached during recent negotiations with respect to an alternate 6 2/3 day work schedule. (See Attachment A).
This letter sets out the conditions under which the parties agree to implement a new 62/3 day work schedule on a trial basis.
When such schedule is implemented, it will continue for a three (3) month trial period. In view of the potential impact on the associates and operations, the schedule will be subject to continuous monitoring and evaluation and if at any time during such trial there is any deterioration in departmental costs or areas, such as health and safety, productivity, quality, and uniformity, absenteeism, or any legislative prohibition, the Company or the union may terminate the trial upon written notice to the other party.
Should the trial prove successful, and both parties are in agreement, it will be instituted as the regular 6 2/3 day schedule.
ATTACHMENT A
D -	Day Shift	8:00	A.M.	to	8:00 P.M.
N -	Night Shift	8:00	P.M.	to	8:00 A.M.
a -	Afternoon shift 4:00	P.M.	to	12:00 P.M.
n -	Night shift 12:00	P.M.	to	8:00 A.M.
Associates work/off:	2-2, 3-2, 2-3 rotation
CREW PREMIUMS #1 - $0.90/HR WORKED #2 - $0.90/HR WORKED #3 - $0.90/HR WORKED #4 - $0.90/HR WORKED
SMTWTFS SMTWTFS SMTWTFS SMTWTFS
CREW In-DD-----NN--DD	a - - N N - -	-	DD--NN
CREW 2a-NN-----DD--NN	n - - D D - -	-NN--DD
CREW 3-DD--NN	n - - D D - -	-NN--DD	a	- - N N - -
CREW 4-NN--DD	a - - N N - -DD--NN	n	- - D D - -
Letter of Understanding #8
This letter will serve to confirm the understanding reached on contracting out miscellaneous painting and clean-up work.
The Company reserves the right to use contract labour (outside the bargaining unit) to perform general plant clean-up and painting as warranted.
53
Letter of Understanding #8 cont'd
The use of contract labour will not interfere with the current janitor's work schedule and will only be used when the unusual situation occurs that requires additional cleaning'and painting.
Letter of IJnderstandins #9
This letter will serve to confirm the understanding reached on the voluntary overtime list.
This list will be used for emergency overtime and not for scheduled overtime.
Letter of Understanding #10
This letter will serve to confirm the understanding reached with respect to holiday pay for the bias cutter service person.
The Company agrees to pay the bias cutter service person his/her average job rate for eight (8) hours for each designated holiday.
Letter of Understanding #11
This letter will serve to confirm the understanding reached with respect to overtime premium pay.
The Union acknowledges that overtime premium will not be paid at both ends of the shift in any circumstance.
Letter of Understanding #12
This will serve to confirm the understanding reached during recent negotiations with respect to defining the "usual learning periods".
All training programs for the various production jobs are currently being reviewed. Upon completion of this review the Company agrees to meet with the local union to define the "usual learning period" by job.
Every effort will be made to have this completed by the end of
1996.
Letter of Intent #1
54
This letter will serve to confirm the understanding reached during recent negotiations with respect to operating supplies.
We will investigate the feasibility of implementing a tool and glove allowance in order to reduce operating costs.
A joint committee will be formed to look at the best way to implement this system.
Letter of Intent #2
This letter will serve to confirm the understanding reached during recent negotiations with respect to calender/tuber operations.
The company will investigate the feasibility of combining the Tuber and Calender Mill operations which would lead to realigning job assignments in order to reduce cost and offset inflation.
Letter of Intent #3
This letter will serve to confirm the understanding reached during recent negotiations with respect to existing company rules and regulations.
The company will publish a list, considered to be serious breaches of plant rules and regulations, for which offenders are subject to dismissal.
55
Letter of Understanding
Re:	Agreement of Cooperation
1.	MISSION STATEMENT
Goodyear Canada Inc. and the United Steel Workers of America on behalf of its Local 628 are committed to creating a facility that will exceed all the requirements of the market.
We will be a world-class performer in profitability, customer service and quality. We will establish a work environment based on trust and respect between a strong company and a strong union, such that we are willing to contribute to our mutual success and long term goals.
2.	GOALS AND OBJECTIVES
To create better jobs by increasing worker responsibility and involvement in the work place.
Continue to provide a healthy work environment accompanied by proper attitudes and responsibilities associated with Safety.
To create a work environment that is free of discrimination, and provide opportunities for all workers equitably.
Develop productivity and general operating improvements to offset increasing costs and thereby enhance job security.
To enhance customer satisfaction, process improvement, financial development and associate development.
To enhance our competitive position in the market.
3.	EMPLOYMENT SECURITY
To assist in enhanced employment security, the parties agree that the Joint Labour/Management Committee shall be consulted, in advance, of all layoffs.
If layoff situations occur as a result of economic conditions or reorganized work programs, the Committee will review and recommend alternatives to layoffs, while considering the needs of the Company and needs of the associate. In all circumstances the Committee will comply with the terms of the Collective Agreement.
In addition, the Committee will have input into the communication and implementation of job restructuring and
- 56 -
training that may occur from time to time. However, nothing herein shall be considered a limitation on the rights provided to the parties under the Collective Agreement.
4.	JOINT LABOUR/MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE
The Joint Labour/Management Committee shall consist of the members of the Employer bargaining committee, as selected by the employer and members of the Union bargaining committee as selected by the Union, the Plant Manager and one (1) other union member selected by the Union, will also be members of the committee.
The Committee meetings shall be co-chaired by a Union representative and a Company representative on an alternating basis.
The Committee shall meet once a month unless otherwise mutually agreed.
Time spent in Committee meetings will be compensated under the terms of the Collective Agreement.
Union Staff Representatives will be allowed to participate in any meetings of the Committee.
Management will share information about the operations, its business and capital plans and new technology with the Committee and the Union.
The parties agree that the Joint Labour/Management Committee shall not be responsible for dealing with issues which are the responsibility of other recognized committees.
5.	Through the desire by the Joint Labour/Management Committee to operate in good faith and mutual respect at all times, and to enhance the well-being of both the associate and the company, negotiation of labour language changes may be recommended by either party through the course of the current Collective Agreement. Mutual agreement and associate acceptance would enact these changes.
6.	Whenever the Joint Labour/Management Committee is unable to reach an agreement on any issue before the committee, the parties will revert to their rights under the terms of the Collective Agreement.
7.	This letter shall form and be part of the Collective Agreement.
SECTION
- 57 -
ALPHABETICAL INDEX
Agreement Cancellation Agreement Duration .... Arbitration Board
Chairman .........
Single Arbitrator
Nominee ..........
Three Man ........
Decision .........
Arbitration Expense ... Arbitration - Notice of
12.02
12.01
10.05
10.10 (2)
10.05
10.06 10.06 10.07 10.03
Bargaining Committee Meetings Payment
Bargaining Committee Personnel ......
Bargaining Unit Recognition .........
Bereavement - Time Off ..............
Breakdowns ...........................
Breakdowns -
Minimum Pay .....................
Call in Pay .....................
5.13
11.04
3.01
5.17
5.05
5.09
5.07
Changes in Starting Time - Minimum Pay .............. 5.08
Cleanliness - Work Area ............................ 11.02
Continuous Operation Provision ...................... App. "D"
Deduction of Union Dues ...............
Department Lists for Seniority Purposes
Discharge or Suspension as Penalty .....
Duration of Collective Agreement .......
Article 9 6.15 10.12
Article 12
First Aid Payment ................................... 5.11
Grievance & Arbitration Procedure Grievance - Rate .................
• Article 10 5.14
Handicapped Associates - Seniority
Holidays ..........................
Holiday During Vacation ..........
Holiday Pay - Qualification .......
Holiday Pay - Time Lost ..........
Holiday Pay - Time Worked ........
Hours of Work .....................
Hours - Standard ..................
6.17
7.01 7.06
7.03
7.04
7.05
Article 4
4.01
Improved Methods ..................
Interim Increase Formula ..........
Interpretation of Agreement Dispute Interpretation of Terms ...........
11.05 App. "B" 10.11
Article 2
59
Seniority - Crews .....................
Seniority - Factory ...................
Seniority - Engineering Division .......
Seniority - Handicapped Associates . ...
Seniority - Loss of ...................
Seniority - Revision of Lists ..........
Seniority Records .....................
Squadron Membership ...................
Standard Hours .........................
Stewards - Numbers of .................
Strikes, Lockouts, Slowdowns, etc ......
Supervisor - Part Time Work ............
Supervisor - Return to Associate Status
App. "C" Article 6 6.08
6.17
6.02
6.14
6.14
11.07 4.01
11.08 3.03
5.18
6.12
Temporary Work Payment .........
Time Lost - Injury .............
Time Sheet Changes .............
Tool Allowance ..................
Transfers - Associate Request . . Transfers - Engineering Division
5.04
5.11
4.03
11.11
6.13
6.08
(4)(5)(6)
Union Notices ..............................
Union Officers - Layoff & Leave of Absence Union President - Time Off ................
11.03
6.04
11.12
Vacancies - Notification of Vacation - Eligibility ....
Vacation - Pay ............
Vacation - Minimum ........
Vacation Pay - Computation
Vacation - Year ...........
Violation of Agreement ....
6.13 (3)
8.02
8.03
8.02 (1)
8.03
8.01
10.11