COLL
LAI
AGRE
	W%7
term] I	
No. OE I J "Z— EMPLdVEES	
D'EMPLOyfs
:nnB

between
GOODYEAR CANADA INC. BOWMANVILLE FACTORY
The Employer
THE UNITED STEEL WORKERS OF AMERICA ON BEHALF OF ITS LOCAL 189
For The Employees
February 20, 1998
February 19, 2004
ARTICLE INDEX
Page
Article 1
Purpose.....................................1
Article 2
Interpretation..............................1
Article 3
Scope of Agreement..........................4
Article 4
Hours of Work...............................5
Article 5
Wage Rates..................................9
Article 6
Seniority..................................15
Article 7
Holidays and Vacations.....................28
Article 8
Union Security.............................35
Article 9
Grievance and Arbitration
Procedure..................................37
Article 10
Miscellaneous.......!......................43
Article 11
Duration of
Collective Agreement. .....................46
COLLECTIVE LABOUR AGREEMENT
This Collective Labour Agreement is Imade and entered into as of the 20th day of February, 1998 between Goodyear Canada Inc, with respect to certjain employees at its Bowmanville Factory, hereinafter! referred to as the “Employer”, and Local 189 of The United Steel Workers of America, hereinafter referred to as thb “Union".
ARTICLE 1 - PURPOSE
1.01	It is the mutual desire of the contracting parties to pro-mots co-operation and harmony and to provide an amicable method of settling arty dispute or grievance that might arise between them.
1.02	Both parties agree as to their,desire to work in harmonious relationship and undertake that there shall be no discrimination, Interference, restriction, coercion, harassment,Intimidation,[or stronger disciplinary action exercised or practiced with respect to an employee by reason of ago!; race, creed, colour, national origin, political or religious affiliation, sex, sexual orientation, or membershiploractivity in the Union.
ARTICLE 2 - INTERPRETATION
2.01
In this Collective Labou tion, unless the context
r Agreement and in i require].. otherwise,

ing words and expressions Will have the meaning hereinaftergiven to them.
(a)	“Employer” means Goodyea Canada Inc., Bowmanville Factory, Bowmanville, Ontario.
(b)	“employee" means every unionized hourly worker.
(c)	“credited service” means the Service of an employee with the Employer as it appeals on his record maintained by the Employer in conformity with the Collective Labour Agreement, the terms "credited service” and “continuous service” 6s used throughout the Collective Labour Agreement sjhall be synonymous.
-1 -
00 7 4 A, (e>5)
The records of the emp oyee shall be presumed to be conclusive of the fads concerning the service, employment, non-empk yment, or disability retirement of an employee, a forner employee, pensioner or application for a pensioi, unless shown beyond a reasonable doubt to be Inc irrect:
(f)	"probationer” means ai
(g)	"probationary periodr lative months during \ works for the Employ rights.
(h)	"holidays” means and ii New Year's Day, Goo< Day, Civic Holiday (ex Civic Holiday falls dur period the Monday fo period will be obser
employee without seniority;
aans the period of four cumu-hich the probationer actually r prior to acquiring seniority
eludes the following days only: Friday, Victoria Day, Canada ept that in any year in which ig a plant vacation shutdown awing the vacation shutdown ad as Civic Holiday for all
The observation date t any of changed bv mutual agi lament
(i)	“qualification” means tl a ability to perform his own job in a safe competent m inner, and to produce the nor-
mal standard of quantity and duality with acceptable attendance.To qualify, or qualified, shall have a like meaning.
“disqualification” shall have tf4 opposite meaning of “qualification”.
Qualifications may be reinstated by mutual consent after a one year period subject to review with appropriate training where necessary.
“layoff means the termination Of work of one or more employees by the Employer fon an indefinite period of time, caused by the decisiort of the Employer to reduce or eliminate the work upon which the employee was engaged; “laid off or“td be laid off shall have a like meaning.
(k)	"departmeni” means and Includes employees working in the department as defined below;
Millroom	2432	2433 2437
(2431 for cost purposes only)		
Conveyor & Special Products	27111	2720 2721
Lab	21,02	
Shipping & Receiving	23/90	2321
Engineering	2211	
Porter Service	2026	
Boiler Room	2216	
(l)	the term “average hourly earnipgs” shall be the average hourly earnings as compujed weekly by the data processing equipment exclusive of all work runout situations, bonuses and premiums.
If no earnings are available forithat week the employee’s previous computed average hourly earnings shall be used.
(m)	the term “work week:
1)	Five Day Schedule-
starts Sunday 11:00 p.m„ finishes 11:00 p.m. the following Friday.
-3-
Continuous Work Sc ledule -
starts Saturday 7:00 p m., finishes 7:00 p.m. the followinc Saturday.
2)	the term “Pay Period” Ind "VacationWeek Five Day Schedule - l
starts Saturday 11:00 s.m., finishes 11:00 p.m. the following Saturday
Continuous Work Sc ledule -
starts Saturday 7:00 p m., finishes 7:00 p.m. the following Saturday
All time sheets shoulc be dated as to the actual date when the shift is com ilete, with the exception of the continuous work sch dule sheets which should be dated as at the start c the shift.
3)	the term “Statutory/Df signated Floater Holiday"
Five Day Schedule -
starts 11 ;00 p.m. the < ay prior to the holiday and finishes 11:00 p.r . the day of the holiday.
ContinuousSchedul s -
starts 7:00 a.m. on thi morning of the holiday and finishes 7:00 a.m the day Immediately following the holiday.
(n)	“certified" means that an employee knows all of the tasks required to pe form a job. In the event an employee does not kr ow all of the job tasks, training will be provided so tha the employee will not loss their qualifications. Certifici lion will not be used for bumping privileges.
2.02	In this Collective Agrsement, wherever the pronoun “he” appears it shall be construed as meaning any employee, male or fer lale.
ARTICLE 3 - SCO SE OF AGREEMENT
' 3.01 The term of the Coll active Labour Agreement shall apply to all employee; and the Employer recognizes the Union as the sole collective bargaining agent for said employees for he duration of this Collective Labour Agreement.
• 4
3.02	Nothing in this Collective Labour Agreement shall conflict with the Employer's functions and responsibility to manage the factory and direct the working force insofar as it is not inconsistent with the provisions hereof.
3.03	The Employer agrees to meet with and bargain with representatives of the Union cm matters pertaining to rates of pay, hours of work and working conditions, as outlined in Article 9.
3.04	There shall be no lock-outs, strike, slowdown or stoppage of work unless and until a|l methods of disposing of the grievances as outlined in Article 9 have been applied.
ARTICLE 4 - HOURS Cj>F WORK
4.01
(1) The hours of work for employees will be scheduled according to the following shift nours:
GENERAL FACTORY AND MAINTENANCE
(a)	Eight hour rotating shifts .
Sunday 11:00 p.m. - Friday 11 :D0 p.m.
1st Shift < 11:00 p.m. - 7:00>a.m.
2nd Shift - 7:00 a.m. - 3:00 p.m.
3rd Shift - 3:00 p.m. -11:00jp.m.
Twenty minutes for lunch with two - ten minute breaks (paid).
(b)	Eight hour steady day shift Monday to Friday
Shift Hours
(1 ) 7:00 a.m. • 3:00 p.rp.
Twenty minute lunch (pe(id)
(2)	7:00 a m. - 4:00 p.m.
One hour for lunch (unphld)
Ordinarily from 12:00 N4on to 1:00 p.m. except in cases of emergency.
(1 ) & (2) receivestwo -iten minute paid break Periods.
-5-
(c)	FIRST, SECOND & T IRD CLASS STATIONERY ENGIh :ERS
Eight hour rotating co itinuous operation.
SHIFTS:
1 st ........11: lO p.m. - 7:00 a.m.
2nd..........7: lO a.m. - 3:00 p.m.
3rd..........3:0 I p.m. -11:00 p.m.
Twenty minutes for lui ch with two • ten minute breaks (paid).
Average standard we :kly working hours of forty-two necessitating days ofl changing from week to week. Vacation week begin: Saturday 11:00 p.m. and ends the following Saturday at 11:00 p.m.
CONTINUOUS EIGHT H )UR WEEK SCHEDULE PREMIUMS
Time and one-half pe 1 from Friday 11:00 p.m. to Saturday 1 1:00 p.m.
Double time paid fron Saturday 11:00 p.m. to Sunday 11:00 p.m.
No 900 Premium OVERTIME PAYMENT
Time and one-half pel from 11:00 p.m. Sunday to Saturday 11:00 p.m.
Double time • paid frc n 11:00 p.m. Saturday to Sunday 11:00 p.m.
No premium payment 'or any work performed by an engineer on a sob duled half-day or full day off when such work is pe formed between 7:00 a.m. Saturday, but in other 'aspects the overtime regulations will apply ir those days.
(d)	Shifts will normally ro >te each week.
Above shift hours ma; temporarily be changed by the employer with the coi sent of the Chief Steward and employees involved.
4,02	"Overtime Work" mea is all time worked in excess of an employee’s regula shift hours in any consecutive twenty-four hour peric i in a day or a regular number of shifts in a week - ; outlined in Section 4.01, but overtime work does n t include:
(a)	time worked by employees exithanging shifts with one another at their own request;
(b)	the time spent on employee committee work or similar activity; however, such time Will be considered part of an employee’s regular shift hours in determining overtime hours on regular department work;
the changes of shifts in the middle of the week which might result in more than the regular daily hours being worked when such change is (caused by the application of the provisions of Article 6 affecting employees retained in preferenceto layoff;
(d) the change of shifts in the middle of the week which might result in more than the regular daily hours being worked when such change is caused by the application of the provisions of Subseptions 5.05 (1) and 5.05 (2);
(e)
When an employee is asked to| work and 1 ;00 p.m. he will be given he will receive time and on^ opportunity to take his lunch only applies to an employee to 4:00 p.m. shift and has lunch hour due to an emergehfey.
between 12 Noon wo options, if he works, ialf for the hour or the :>ur at a later time. This io works the 7:00 a.m. en asked to work his
i^i
jWf,
b *,
4.03	An employee shall not have h|is regular working time reduced because he has done overtime work.
4.04	,
(a) When overtime work becomes necessary, it shall be distributed in an equal and impartial manner among the employees of the plant as (follows:
(1)	Among those employees bn the job requiring the overtime who are willing to work.
(2)	Among those qualified employees on the same shift requiring the overtime. Where there are only one or two shifts working - the lowest overtime houred employee on the jqb group affected will be asked.
(3)	Among those qualified employees in the department who are willing to wdrk.
-7-
(4)	Among those qua ified employees in the factory who are willing to vork the required overtime.
(5)	Among those com; istent employees In the department who are will! ig to work.
(6)	Among those com letent employees in the factory who are willing to vork.
It is expected tha all employees will cooperate when and where < vertime work becomes necessary.
(b)	For purposes of overtii ne only, qualified or competent shall have a like mear ing. If an employee who Is not qualified but is compe ent enough to perform the job on his own and Is pn sently working on the job will have the same rights.
(c)	The department shall naintaln a list of qualifications of each employee in t is department. Overtime to be recorded and posted e ach week.
(d)	The “offered" overtime hours, whether worked or not, will be recorded again t employee. All hours over and above offered to an en ployee already working will not be charged whether u irked or not.
(e)	Overtime shall be dlsf Ibuted equally on the basis of each calendar year, f overtime is necessary, the senior qualified emplc ee will be considered the lowest overtime employer first, provided shifts allow.
(f)	No employees will b( offered overtime work which would result in his wo ring more than twelve consecutive hours.
(g)	The “offered" overtlmi hours recorded will follow an employee from one dejartment to another.
If a new employee Is h red, he will inherit the overtime hours (if he meets the overtime requirements) of the employee who owns the job (to which he was assigned) with the Ir ast amount of hours In that department.
(h)	Where two or more employee^ have the identical total of "offered” overtime hours, the employee on rotating shifts (if any) will be offered dvertime on the shift he has been working that week [except as explained in
4.04	(E).
(i)	If an employee is asked to work back to back shifts whether worked or not can only be charged with eight hours of overtime.
(j)	Forovertimepurposes.thefirstshiftfilled will be11:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m., the second fchift will be 7:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m. and the third shift will be 3:00 p.m. to 11:00 p.m.
(k)	When an employee is scheduled on a specific job but has been rescheduled without his prior knowledge and/or approval, he will have trie option of refusing the overtime except in cases of absenteeism, machine breakdown or unforeseen product problems.
(l)	When overtime requirements^ low, and any one job is working a lot of hours latter two consecutive week-ends of overtime requirements, other qualified employees will be asked to wprk besides the man on the job.
4.05	No time sheets will be chanded until the Employee concerned has been informeoof changes to be made.
4.06	The Employer will provide adequate relief when and where necessary.
ARTICLE 5 - WAGEl RATES
5.01 The rate of pay shall be the one in effect at the date hereof. It shall remain in effect until February 19,2001 All of the foregoing in Accordance with the Memorandum of Agreementi signed between the Employer and the Union on thb 20th day of February, 1998. The rates as so revised Shall remain in effect for the balance of the term of Ithls Collective Labour Agreement provided that either party during the term of this Collective Agreement may request a consideration of the rates of pay and hours of work, if warrant-- 9-
ed by the general eci shall be In writing an thirty days of the date
5.02	An individual wage because of a change ii ■given consideration.
5.03
(1)	A Hiring-In-Rate of $1! first four months of cal for the next four mont received for the next work performed. After will receive full rate. Tt trades.
(2)	Transfer rate shall be f day work rate of th< employee recalled froi laid off for a period of unless the employee’s
rate.,Hqwever, an emp to which ne is recallei
rate of the job.
5.04
(1) When an employee is assigned to other wort run out and employms paid his average ho (whichever Is higher) given. However, In cas not being made, payn the employee has bee
lomlc situation. Such request the parties shall meet within f delivery of such request.
ate requiring an adjustment Ihe working conditions may be
30 per hour will be paid for the ndar service, $14.50 per hour s, and $16.00 per hour being )ur months regardless of the year of service, the employee a clause not to apply to skilled
y cents per hour less than the job or when applied to an laid-off status if he has been ass than six calendar months, experience warrants a higher
aken off his regular Job and Is or when an employee’s work Is it Is found for him; he shall be irly earnings or rate of job rovlded a satisfactory effort Is s where a satisfactory effort Is snt will be changed only after so advised.
5.05
(1) When an employee's ’ 'ork is run out and there is no other work to which e is assigned and continues beyond one shift and tl ere are probationers in the factory, the employee(s) I ivolved shall displace a probationers) the following day so that the employee(s) involved in this situatk i may only lose up to a maximum of four hours.
0-
(2) When a employee's work is rbn out and there is no other work to which he is assigned and there is no probationer in the factory, after two working days, seniority provisions will be applied in the department only, within five working days] factory seniority provisions will be applied in accord|ance with Article 6.
5.06	All overtime on a regular eight hour work schedule shall be paid as follows:
Double Time -11:00 p.m. Saturday to 11:00 p. m, Sunday
Time and One Half • paid for ^ll other overtime hours
5.07	An employee not previouslyscheduled to work, who is called to work by the employer and consequently reports to work on Sunday orl on a holiday or at any time after he has completed his regular shift and one hour before his next scheduled shift, shall receive either four hours at his regijlar rate of pay or the applicable rate for actual timfc worked, whichever is the greatest, and in addition, OflS-half hour travelling time at his regular rate of p|y provided he left the building;this provision does npt apply, however to an employee called in early on hi|s scheduled shift.
5.08
When an employee has not tflen notified of a change in his starting time and repots for work prior to his new starting time he will work [that shift and report the following day on his proper sh ft. If this move necessitates more than eight hours work in a twenty-four hour period, eight hours will be paid at premium pay.
If an employee reports for the from his new starting time he pay at A.H.E. for the shift he work it will be considered as the conditions were within the that the employee has advls last and correct address.
work the following shift will receive eight hours nissed. If he is offered overtime provided that Employer's control and d the Employer of his
5.09
An employee who is injured id the factory and treated in the health centre and/or [in a physician's office and/or hospital, shall be paid nis average hourly earnings for the time so spent durlhg the shift in which the injury occurs. If by reason of he injury the employee is sent home by the Employer, he shall be paid his
-11-
average hourly earnlni 3 for the balance of his shift. The employee will n di / the employer as soon s possible to his status.
5.10	An employee shall be | aid for time lost on his job if he is called away from sia le by the Employer.
5.11
(1)	Each member of the iargalnlng Committee who is present at special mee ings called by the Employer at the regular monthly m etlng with the Employer or at 3rd and 4th stage rievance meetings with the Employer shall be pale at his average hourly earnings for the period commer :ing one-hatf hour prior to the designated starting tin > of the meeting until the time at which the meeting i ladjoumed. He shall also be paid at his average hoi ly earnings for time spent during negotiations for ibi swal of Agreements until such time as application is r ade for conciliation services.
(2)	All time spent by emplc ees in special meetings called by the Employer will b< considered as "hours worked" in the calculation of ov rtime.
5.12
(1)	The establishment of s andards shall be derivedfrom time and motion studl s of the job. The department Steward and one r ember of the Time Study Committee concerned will be notified of new standards and, if they so nquest, they will be allowed a maximum of two worHng days on the operation to check the facts befere the proposed standards become effective.
(2)	It is agreed that no change in permanent standards will be made unless ch anges are made in job content such as method, construction, compound, group arrangement, breakdown, layout equipment, materials or specification which either increase or decrease the time nece ssary to produce a unit of production. Any changes uch standards will be made commensurate with tl legree of change in the job content.
(3)	Inaccuracies relating ib content made at the time
the standard was computed vjiill be corrected, unless more than ninety days have Slapsed since the standard was effective, in which event corrections may be made only by mutual agreerm nt.
(4)	Changes in established standards will be made as soon as possible following a change in job content, unless otherwise mutually agreed. It is understood that where an employee complies with the job specifications and increases his effi ;lency through his own skill and effort it shall not be interpreted as being a change in job content under the provision of this section.
(5)	It is agreedthatthe Employerphall base standards on full use of an employee's tim$, which consists of full productive time on the job with reasonable allowances.
(6)
In the event a grievance arises out of a standard, the Department Steward and ono member of the Time Study Committee shall have I he right to observe the operation and to attend at the Time Study Department to inspect records which show Its timing; in such a dispute, upon mutual agreement which show its timing; in such a dispute, upon mutual agreement between the Employer and the Union, the Union may engage an engineer competent to conduqttime and motion studies to work with Employer'sTijne Study Department.
(7) If settlement of the grievance results in an adjustment in the contested standards, it Shall be corrected.
5.13	No salaried employee of the Employer, or temporary hourly rated Manager shall perform any work which should normally be done byf employees except in cases of emergency or trainina of employees.
Where there is a qualified bargaining unit employee available he will perform the opjob-training.
5.14	The employees working on rotating shifts will receive a bonus of fifty cents per hour on the afternoon shift and fifty-five cents per hour bn the night shift. This bonus shall not be included Ih the calculation of the overtime pay.
-13-
5.15	An employee who is re subpoenaed as a Crow ference between the air his average hourly earr regularly scheduled wo vice, subject to the folic
(a)	employees must not Department Head wl receipt of notice of sett naed as a Crown Witne
(b)	an employee called for Crown Witness and wh attendance at court mi able period of time rem
(c)	an employee selected f a Crown Witness will Monday to Friday Day i
(d)	in order to be eligible fc ee must furnish a wrltte ate public official show and the amount of pay
(e)	should an employee's s due to his selection for Crown Witness, his M employee's vacation If year.
5.16	An employee on the e who is excused by the E death and funeral of daughter, brother, siste grandchild, brother-indaughter-in-law, spous ter-in-law, spouse's grc lives in the household pensated at his averac so lost by him upon hi reason of such absenc such death and funeral is necessary for the en and/or attend the funer
uired to serve on a jury or is Witness shall be paid the difount paid for such service and ngs for the time lost from his < shift by reason of such serving provisions:
y their Area Manager or lln twenty-four hours after :t!on for jury duty or subpoe-;s;
ury duty or subpoenaed as a i is temporarily excused from it report for work if a reason-lus to be worked in his shift
r jury duty or subpoenaed as se scheduled onto the (73) hlft.
■ such payments, the employ-statementfrom the appropri-ng the date and time served sceived;
iheduled vacation be affected ury duty or subpoenaed as a eager shall reschedule said is so requests in the current
itive payroll of the Employer eployer solely because of the i parent, parent-in-law, son,
, husband, wife, grandparent, aw, sister-in-law, son-in-law, 's brother-inlaw, spouse's sls-idparent or a dependent who >f the employee will be com-i hourly earnings for the time regular working schedule by , for up to three days for each this provision to apply when it aloyee to make arrangements
For the purpose of this sectioh, a step-parent or foster-parent shall be considered bs a parent and a stepson or stepdaughter or fosterlson or foster-daughter shall be considered as a son for daughter only when the step-parent or foster parent has taken the place of the natural parent in relation to! such child and is notin receipt of any financial aid for the support of such child.
Common-law relationships according to Government law will be so recognized.
ARTICLE 6 - SENIORITY
6.01 Seniority for the purpose of this Article 6 and as distinct from service shall be calculated as from the date of the employee's first working day for the Employer, but shall not include the time en employee is protected from layoff and continues tolwork under Subsection
6.13	(1) or as a member of the|Executive Board of the Union or as a Steward under Subsection 6.07 (1) after an employee with more seniority has been laid off and until he is recalled to work.
6.02
Notwithstanding any provision (except Section 6.17) that may be contained in this Article to the contrary, no employee shall be assigned or transferred to any job for which he is not then qualified provided that, should there be a vacancy for which no qualified employee is available, then subject to the provisions of Section 6.17, the Employer may assign or transfer any employee to the job for a perk d in which to qualify; it is furthermore provided that itvrtll not be necessaryfor an employee to have previously worked on an unclassified job in order to be a qualified employee at such unclassified job.
6.03
(1)	The employees of the Engineering Division of the factory shall be subject to layoff and recall only within their own division and their seniority rights shall be determined only in relation to bach other.
Although the General Service! employees belong to the Engineering Department, {hey are not subject to these provisions.
-15-
Other employees shall employees of the Eng shall the latter have the ees.
In all other respects thi apply to employees of same manner as they
(2)	When a vacancy exh Division or in the rest employee can be recal employ a lald-off empf division to which he I conditions:
a)	he shall be eligible he has seniority i period in the new i
b)	he shall be deem four months In his
(c) on the completior shall be restored t
6.04
(1)	An employee shall losi or is discharged.
(2)	A lald-off employee sh he fails to:
a) inform the Emplp can be reached \a Changes of such mail, addressed I and will be ackno
(b) notify the Employ work within one notified to do so fc or messenger, or < notice to do so h registered mall, r records of the Err
not have the right to displace leering Division, nor, in turn, Ightto displace other employ-
provisions of this Article shall ie Engineering Division In the pply to other employees.
s either in the Engineering of the factory and no lald-off id, then the Employer may razee having no seniority In the recalled under the following
'or recall to the division where atus during his probationary vision;
d to be a probationer during ew division;
of four months, his seniority him in his new division.
his seniority when he resigns
.II lose his seniority whenever
r of the address at which he sn required to report to work, ddress may be forwarded by the Employment Department edged In writing;
of his intention to return to irking day after having been direct telephone conversation thin three working days after a
been received by courier or it to his last address on the oyer:
(c) report for work within seven days after he has stated his intention to return to work.
In each such case, his employment and his seniority shall, terminate at once without notice or other act on the part of the Employer; provided that the provisions of Paragraph 6.04 (2) (b) or Jo) do not apply if the employee furnishes a satisfactory reason to the Employer within thirty days of his failure; this discretion may be used only once in favour of any employee.
(3)	An employee who is laid-off With less than five years of factory seniority and is not recalled to work by the Employer during the following two year period shall thereupon lose his seniority. An employee who is laid-off with five years or more of factory seniority and is not recalled to work by the Employer during the following five year period shall thereupon lose his seniority.
6.05	In any one layoff period, a former employee with seniority in layoff status shall ba entitled to accumulate seniority and service equivalent to the seniority held at time of layoff but in no event shall accumulation exceed twelve months.
6.06
(1)	An employee absent from wprk because of bodily injuries caused by accident or! sickness and qualified to receive weekly indemnity benefits under the terms of the Health and Life Insurance Agreement in effect from time to time betweenthe Employer and the Union shall be entitled to accumulate seniority and service during the period of his abs'ence on the following basis:
(a)	An employee who has less than five years of contln ous service with the EmployeriWlll be entitled to accumulate seniority and service fur a maximum period of one year, but his accumulated seniority and service shall not exceed his service With the Employer as of the day on which he last worked prior to his illness.
-17-
transferred from h's department while there is work to be perform 3d in his department.
However, to establi sh job position the following bumps will apply:
■ Classified group p rovided qualified and sufficient service
• Unclassified grou 3 provided sufficient service
- Departmentsupei seniority jobs as per Clause
6.13	(1)d) Lowest position within job group listing.
(b)	No member of the Ex icutive Board shall be laid off while there is work to t a performed in the factory.
The Union officials to which the privilege extends (Paragraph A & B shall be limited to eleven Executive Board Members). Plus Stewards as listed:
Belt Department......................3
........,..................3
Power House/Englnbering Porter Service/Lab/Shlpping
If Building #33 is util necessitating transferrii the Union (Local 189 Stewards to this Depar
d for some other product or hiring of new employees peserves the right to add snt.
-18-
(2)	An employee who is elected or selected for duty as an officer for, or representative! of, the United Steel Workers of America or to I the Canadian Labour Congress or to the Federation of Labour, which assignment will take away from his employment with the Employer, may apply ini writing for a leave of absence; such leave of absepce shall be requested and granted yearly and shall cancel itself automatically upon termination of this Collective Labour Agreement. For three years following the date the leave of absence is granted, the employee will accumulate seniority and service for employment reinstatement and thereafter will retain seniority for as long as his leave of absence continues in force. Followingthe termination of hjs leave of absence and his immediate return to work fir the Employer, he shall be reinstated to all privilegesl of employment and he shall be offered the same vjrork in the department which he had left or similar vyork at the then current rate of pay for such work.
For Pension purposes only, iuch employees will be credited with the seniority and service which he has accumulated pursuant to the preceding paragraph and will not have to return to active employment with the Employer in order to qualify for a pension or severance award if otherwise elidible for the same. The Pension Plan in effect at thejdate of the employee's application for retirement sh4ll be the Pension Plan applicable to him.
(3)	An employee who is selected as a delegate to the convention of The United Steel Workers of America, the Ontario Federation of Labour or the Canadian Labour Congress, or who requires leave of absence to perform specific union dutiep or municipal elective duties, may apply to his Manager for time off to attend to such duties and will be granted such time as may be necessary for this purposd.
(4)	Underthe provisions mentioned above in this Section, the Union shall give consideriation to the need of the assignment or appointmentahd the possible handicap to other employees.
-19-
6.08	An employee who wish sonal reasons shall n Industrial Relations De
Approval from his Ar< Manager and the Ini required.
This application must i request.
If granted, such leave will be given to the Absence will not be grs employment elsewhert work on the date indies and he will be placed o he Is able to perform t credited with service while he is on leave ol two months. Welfare B demnlty, will be contlnu absence up to a maxln
6.09
(1)	When a female emplc period of four month3, from her physician to s leave of absence until delivery. Her seniority s leave of absence, pro' tioned four month pei opinion of her physlciai normal work to the I Employer.
(2)	She shall be returned case she has not enou previous job, she shal lined in Section 6.13.
(3)	If she does not apply employment will termir
s a Leave of Absence for per-ike written application to the artment.
l Manager, Business Centre istrlal Relations Manager Is
;lude the reason(s) for such a
hall be In writing and a copy Union Secretary. Leave Of ited for self-employment or for The employee must return to >d in the letter of authorization his previous job provided that e work. The employee will be r seniority during the period absence up to a maximum ot nefits, exclusive of Weekly In-d during the period of leave ol im of two months.
ee has been pregnant for a he shall present a certificate :h effect and shall be granted ur months after birth or other all be retained during the said fed that within the last men-d, she presents the written hat she is able to perform her irsonnel Department of her
a her last previous job or In i seniority to return to her last follow the provisions as out-
; In Subsection 6.09 (1 ) her fe without notice.
6.10	As in hiring, it shall be the fun tion of the Employer, in his judgement to determine I ie qualification of each employee; such judgement v jll be carefully applied when reviewing the individual, ualificatlons of employees.
Regular assessment of em loyee progress to be reviewedwithin a reasonable iine limit.
6.11
The probationer shall be temporary employee for all the time of his probationary period; his employment may be terminated at any tirhe without reference to seniority and, subject to the provisions of Section 9.12, the Employer shall notl have an obligation to rehire him or offer him work. The length of time worked by a probationer before his layoff shall, on rehiring, be credited to him after he has Required seniority, if he has not been laid off more thaln one year.
6.12 No employee with seniority sftall be laid off in the factory before all probationers ar^ laid off.
This clause does not apply In the Engineering Division.
6.13
(1)	When it becomes necessary to actually lay-off an employee from the plant the employee with the least seniority on the Classified or jjnclasslfied jobs affected will be considered the surplus employee and will displace other employees with less seniority provided that an employee displacing on a Classified job must be qualified on the job except in Paragraph 6.13 (1) d).
However, the senior employfee(s) on a job or the senior employee(s) in the job group affected will have the opportunity to elect direejt optional lay-off under the following conditions:
(1)	Actual plant manning redaction occurs.
(2)	Laid-off employee must; return to work when Company is in a newhirep position.
-21-
(3)	Laid-off employee i lust return to work when he has exhausted his U.I.C, Credits.
(4)	An employee must 13turn to work when recall provision as outlined in Ar cle 6 prevail.
(5)	Optional laid-off em iloyees will not be recalled to other jobs within the pi rnt as a result of their qualifications for vacation fill-i relief purposes.
(6)	Hand when the lay-i ff period reaches a one month duration, the employe! will then have the option to exercise his rights und: r Article 6 or may continue his optional lay-off.
(7)	The employee is esponsible to report his intentions with respect o the optional lay-off to the Personnel Office five w irking days prior to the end of the one month optional period.
(a)	the employee with the I 'ast seniority on any classified job of the department, failing which he will displace the employee with the aast seniority on the unclassified jobs of the departn ent.
(b)	the employee with the I >ast seniority on any classified job in any department if the factory, failing which he will displace the emplo lee with the least seniority on the unclassified jobs in any department of the factory.
(c)	the employee finally d splaced, who has insufficient seniority to displace otl ers will be laid off;
(d)	an employee with one ar or more of seniority provi-
least factory seniority ii he following classified jobs:
or failing the above an lower seniority employees in the unclassified labour >ol group.
2nd Building Tables 2nd Inspection Tables
Banbury Lay-Down Calendar Helpers
(e) The list of classified jo are referred to in Paragraph
6.13	(1) (d) may chang after discussion with the bargaining Committee
Any displaced employee hastjie displacing privileges as listed in Subsection6.13 (1).
(2)	(a) An employee who was plated on otherwork inthe factory from a classified Job shall be reinstated to the classified job on which he worked immediately prior to the date of layoff, provided he is entitled to do so by virtue of hirlseniority and qualifications for the job; except t*1 At, if the said employee has worked for three coi15ecutlve months on his new job, he may in this ?Pse, retain his new job; and
(b) an employee who was placed on other work in the factory from an unclassiied job shall not be reinstated to his former uncasslfied job unless he prefers such reinstatement, such preference being offered on the first occasion only: and
<c)
after all employees have teen reinstated according to the provisions of Paragraph 6.13 (2)(a) and (b) a laid off employee vj/lth recall rights will be recalled in order of senior ty to classified jobs that may be vacant provided the employee is qualified on such job, or will be recalled in order of seniority to unclassified jobs;
(d)	finally, the balance of t^e employees shall be recalled in order of factory seniority to fill classified or unclassified jobs ttjat may be vacant.
6.14	An employee who refuses to .accepta transfer occasioned by reason of a layoff in accordance with Section 6.13 shall not be discharged but shall be laid off and shall be entitled to all privileges granted to an employee who is laid off in usual course according to the provisions of Section 6.13l
6.15	An employee to be laid off for $n indefinite period shall be given not less than seven calendar days notice of the effective date of such layoff and such employee will be granted pay at his avejage hourly earnings for such time during the seven aay calendar period that work is not available.
-23-
This does not apply to' nployees electing direct layoff according to 6.13 (1).
An employee shall giv* fne week’s notice of the effective date of his resign2 Sn, if possible.
6.16	Employees who trans bed to positions outside the bargaining unit and j \o had at least one year of seniority in the barga Sg unit prior to transfer, shall be granted factory sef. Vity equivalent to their continuous employment w1 1 the Employer upon being transferred back into he bargaining unit, provided such service outside he bargaining unit has been accumulated in the pie t covered by this agreement.
Such former .employer shall take his place in the factory in the foliowingm ’"er;
(1)	He shall displace employee with the least factory seniority on i nclassified job in the factory provided his sent so entitled him.
(2)	Failing this, he sh n find his rightful job in accordance with Article i.
This section will not be applicable to the Engineering Divisii i.
6.17
(1) When a vacancy occur!; a notice of such vacancy will be posted in the Factoi , Entrance for four full working days exclusive of Satui lay, Sunday, and Holidays.
A list of the employees lidding for the posted vacancy will then be posted for ne working week, after which the position will be fille .
Once the employee sig s his name to the Job Posting Sheet, it cannot bewltr Irawn.Thls also applies to Job Progression Sheets. A sheets to be dated and witnessed by Managemei :.
Any further vacancies rhlch occur on the posted job within ninety days of th i posting will be filled from the list of applicants from s ch posting in accordance with
Employees will be permitted |to job post plant wide with a twelve month interval to apply between honoured job postings, exclusive!of Classified Day Shift Jobs and Newly Created Jobs], Employeeswill not be permitted to job post down witnin a crew.
All subsequent vacancies created by the filling of the vacancy will be filled from theitransfers on file. These transfers must be renewed in April of each calendar year.
Employees will be permitted to transfer plant wide with a twelve month interval to atfply between honoured transfers.
This provision will cover all vacancies except crews, as outlined in Section 6:20 Lead Men and Engineering Division excluding General Service.
When employees are working away from the Bowmanvllle Plant the Compafiy will so inform them of all job postings.
(2)	An employee prior to leaving bn vacation may submit in writing to Management his desire to be considered for any job postings which may occur when he is on vacation. His name will be adped to such postings in order of his plant seniority provided he has completed and signed the proper form.
An employee who wishes to transfer from one job to another due to a vacancy created by a Job Posting shall submit a written transferor request in duplicate to his Area Manager.
The Business Centre Manader will sign the copies and return one to the employee. A transfer is applicable only to fill a vacancy which resulted from a Job Posting.
(3)	All classified and unclassifiedlday shift jobs to be posted.
6.18	An employee shall have thb right to examine his seniority records at any time at the Personnel Office; -25-
a factory seniority list s ment showing the nai department; this list wil at the end of each calei Ity list by departments each year, when the sc
6.19	For the purpose of this and unclassified jobs c the Employer to the Un
The combined total of list” of classified positic of the total job position
Any change In the prc job classification or the classified or unclasslf! cussed with the Bargali ing effective.
6.20	Crew Progression
(1) All crew operations sh and unclassified list.
all be posted In each depart-es of all employees of said :a corrected by the Employer iar month; a complete senlor-■III be supplied to the Union, lority lists are revised.
Article, a list of the classified the factory shall be given by in from time to time.
jnclassified and the “special is will represent at least 45%
ent classified or unclassified Production of new jobs to the i classifications will be dls-ng Committee before becom-
I be shown on the classified
(2)
Subject to Subsections 5.13 (2) (a) and (b) crew progression shall be as fo >ws:
(a) Employees on thi job immediately below the vacancy who are Qualified on the job where the vacancy exists she be given the first opportunity to fill the vacancy, order of factory seniority. .
(b) If the vacancy is n< employees who at ately below the vs opportunity to fill t seniority.
filled as in Paragraph (a), the qualified on the job immedi-ancy shall be given the next 3 vacancy, in order of factory
(c)
If the vacancy Is m (b), the employee: jobs immediately given the next opi order of factory sei
filled as In paragraphs (a) or who are not qualified on the elow the vacancy shall be irtunity to fill the vacancy, in ority.
(d)	If the vacancy is not filled a£| in Paragraphs (a), (b) or (c), the same procedure as outlined in Paragraphs (a), (b) and (c)|shall be followed progressively on the lower job$ in the crew.
I
(e)	If a vacancy is not filled as in Paragraphs (a), (b), (c) or (d), job posting as outlined in Section 6.17 shall be applicable.
(3)	Crew Regression
Employees on crew operations shall regress due to a reduction in the number of crrjws or the number of employees in a crew as follows;
(a)	The first employees to regress 4hall be the unqualified employees in reverse order of factory seniority, in the highestjob in the crew.
(b)	The next employees to regress shall be the qualified employees in reverse order of factory seniority, in the highestjob in the crew.
NOTE:
In moving down, the emplo; unqualified employees, if any, toty seniority and then qualifie order of factory seniority in th crew.
e shall displace the reverse order of fac-employees in reverse next lower job in the
6.21
(1) On a classified job where there! are twenty or more hours of work per week the employee on the job will retain his classification and! will be given other work which will provide him with sufficient hours to constitute a normal work week,
(2)
If it becomes necessary to cdmbine classified jobs, the employees having the qt alificatlons on one of these jobs will be recognized qs having qualifications on the others. In this case the qualified employees having the longest seniority will,be retained in the new grouping.
(3)	In the combining of classified and unclassified jobs for the purpose of picking up labour balance the employ--27-
ees with the longest fai tory seniority on the jobs being combined will be retail ed in the new grouping if they so desire. If the emp iyee with the longest factory seniority does not wls i to remain on the job he will then find his rightful pie :e according to Section 6.13 of the Collective Labour / greement.
(4)	It is understood that he Open, Banbury, Calendar Extruder and Cement -louse Mills will each be considered a separate cla sification.
Employees who presei tly hold qualifications on either Open, Banbury or C lendar Mill classification will automatically hold que ideations on the Extruder and Cement House Mill cla islfications.
6.22 An unclassified plant! ibour Balance Pool employee may be used on any si ift for fill-in purposes, however, If no fill-in is required they may be assigned work elsewhere or Article 6 rill apply.
The manning of the .abour Balance Pool will be adjusted as required.
Experience gained as i Labour Balancer shall not be used for the purpo:) of bumping privileges or enhance the employee s qualification period In relation to other employees att mptlng to qualify on the same
Job at the same time.
ARTICLE 7
HOLIDAYS AND VACATIONS
7.01	A holiday shall begin a;
7.02	Subject to the other employee shall be paid dard shift for each holic
7.03	Such payment for a he regular pay for the wee
calculated as follows:
per Article 2.01 (m) (3).
rovlsions of this Article, an in amount equal to one stan-
y-
day will be Included with the in which it occurs and will be
Daywork employees w be paid their standard shift
hours multiplied by their daywofk wage rates.
7.04	An employee who is required tq work on a designated holiday shall be paid double time, in addition to his holiday pay.
7.05	Only the employee actually at (work on the last regularly scheduled shift before and his first regularly scheduled shift following the holiday, shall receive Holiday Pay. In a case where there are circumstances beyond the employee’s contrpl and the employee could have worked if the factory had operated, payment for a holiday may be made upon recommendation of Management.
An employee who is laid off VWhin a period of five working days immediately preceding a holiday and who is actually at work on the day of lay-off shall be entitled to receive Holiday Payifor such holiday.
Subject to the above, an employee who is absent because of sickness or accident and limited to a thirty day period exclusive of Saturday and Sunday prior to or following such designates holiday, shall receive Holiday Pay provided such absence is supported by a Doctor’s Certificate and presented to Management by the employee prior to his first shift back to work.
There shall be deducted from fcuch pay any payments which the employee receives^ the result of such illness.
7.06	An employee shall receive Holiday Pay for a holiday that occurs either during his regular vacation or the day before or the day after his regular vacation period provided that the said employee actually works on his last regularly scheduled shift tjefore and his first regularly scheduled shift following|his vacation period and such holiday.
In a case where an employee Is absent on his last regularly scheduled shift beforeior his regularly scheduled shift after such holiday (and vacation and such absence is excused, payment for the holiday may be made upon a recommendation as outlined in Section 7.05.
-29-
Subject to the above, because of sickness 01 day period exclusive o or following such des Holiday Pay for a holld regular vacation or on his regular vacation pe supported by a Doctoi Management by the t back to work.
an employee who Is absent accident and limited to a thirty Saturday and Sunday, prior to jnated holiday, shall receive / that occurs either during his re day before or the day after iod provided such absence is i Certificate and presented to iployse prior to his first shift
There shall be deducte i from such pay any payments which the employee re elves as the result of such illness.
7.07
(1)	An employee shall b< with pay after one yea er, in order to bring e' year and for the purp and the vacation pay, calendar year, startini on December 31. A v; Article 2.01 (m) (4).
(2)
granted two weeks vacation of continuous service; howev-iryone to a common vacation ® of computing the vacation le vacation year shall be the in January 1 and terminating itlon week shall begin as per
date of hiring.
(3) An employee who con letes one year of continuous service on or before Di ember 24 in the current year shall be granted in th< same current year a second week d vacation on h is ompletion of one year of continuous service in ad :ion to the vacation he has already been granted fi his previous service, and will receive as vacation pa; or that second week of vacation 2% of his earnings n the previous calendar year.
An employee who core letes one year of continuous
service after December24 in t*|)e current year shall be granted vacation for the renaming days of the year with pay for his remaining regujarly scheduled days of work.
(4)	An employee with one year or jmore but less than five years of continuous service as of December31 of the previous calendaryear, shall ho granted in the current year two weeks of vacation a d will receive as vacation pay 4% of his earnings i the previous calendar year since the last day of hlrir |.
(5)
An employee who completes service on or before Decemb shall be granted in the same c of vacation on his completion ous service In addition to the t has already been granted to year of service and will receivi third week of vacation 2% of t ous calendaryear.
ve years of continuous r 24 in the current year irrent year a third week if five years of continu-o weeks of vacation he his previous calendar as vacation pay for this s earnings In the prevl-
An employee who completes service after December 24 In granted vacation for the rem with pay for his remaining reg work.
ve years of continuous te current year shall be Inlng days of the year larly scheduled days of
(6) An employee with five years lor more but less than twelve years of continuous service as of December31 of the previous calendar year shall be granted in the current year three weeks of vacation and will receive as vacation pay 6% of his eari igs in the previous calendar year, less any amour which has previously been paid to the employee ar racation pay in respect of the same vacation year.
(7)
An employee who complete tinuous service on or before rent year shall be granted in fourth week of vacation in weeks of vacation he has alre previous calendar year of sei vacation pay for the fourth we earnings in the previous calei -31-
twelve years of con-icember 24 in the cur-a same current year, a ddition to the regular jy been granted for his Ice and will receive as k of vacation 2% of his lar year.
An employee who co tlnuous service after D shall be granted vacatli year with pay for his days of work.
(8) An employee with twel twenty years of oontlnu of the previous calend current year four week! vacation pay 8% of hi; endar year, less any been paid to the emplc of the same vacation y
iletes twelve years of con-amber 24 in the current year for the remaining days of the naining regularly scheduled
years or more but less than s service as of December 31 year shall be granted In the f vacation and will receive as larnings in the previous cal-iount which has previously e as vacation pay in respect r.
(9) An employee who co tlnuous service on or t rent year shall be gra week of vacation on continuous service in i vacation he has alread calendar year of servii pay for that fifth week in the previous calendi
iletes twenty years of con-ore December 24 In the cur-id in the current year a fifth "npletion of twenty years of litlon to the regular weeks of ieen granted for his previous and will receive as vacation vacation 2% of his earnings /ear.
An employee who co tlnuous service after D shall be granted vacati year with pay for his days of work.
iletes twenty years of con-ember 24 in the current year for the remaining days of the nalnlng regularly scheduled
(10)
An employee with twei twenty-five years ol December 31 of the p granted in the current1 will receive as vacatior
years or more but less than :ontlnuous service as of /ious calendar year shall be ir five weeks of vacation and ay 10% of his earnings in the previous calendar yeart less any amount which has previously been paid tenhe employee as vacation pay In respect of the same \ .cation year.
(11) An employee who comp tinuous service on or bi rent year shall be grant sixth week of vacation c -3£-
ites twenty-five years of con-ore December 24 In the cur-i In the same current year a completion of thirty years of
continuous service in addition jto the regular weeks of vacation he has already been granted for his previous calendar year of service and will receive as vacation pay for that sixth week of vacation 2% of his earnings in the previous calendar year. An employee who completes twenty-five years or morje of continuous service after December24 in the current year shall be granted vacation for the remainingdays of the year with pay for his regularly remaining scheduled days of work.
(12)	An employee with twenty-five years or more of continuous service as of December131 of the previous calendar year shall be granted in the current year six weeks of vacation and will receive as vacation pay 12% of his earnings in the previous calendar year less any amount which has previously been paid to the employee as vacation pay Irt respect of the same vacation year.
(13)	When an employee has been unable to work during a portion of the preceding calendar year owing to sickness or injury not covered by the Worker’s Compensation Act, and for this reason only the vacation pay is less than the minimum mentioned below, the vacation pay shall be increased to a minimum of $400.00 per week provided that said employee must have worked during some portion of the preceding calendar year and has resumed his duties not less than one month before vacation is granted.
(14)	An employee with seniority who leaves the employment of the Employer for any reason or who dies during his employment, if he has had vacation or pay in lieu of vacation in the current year, shall be entitled to receive or in the case of death his estate shall be enti-
tled to receive 4% of his earn
ngs in the current year
in cash if he has completed ope year or more but less than five years of continuous service at the date he leaves the employ of the Employer or dies, or 6% of his earnings in the current yealr in cash if he has completed five years or more but I4ss than twelve years of continuous service at the date be leaves the employ of the Employer or dies, or 8% of his earnings in the current year in cash if he has completed twelve years or more but less than twenty yeafs of continuous service -33-
at the date he leaves is employ of the Employer or dies, or 10% of his earr ngs In the current year In cash If he has completed tw inty years or more of continuous service at the dat he leaves the employ of the Employer or dies, a 12' > of his earnings In the current year in cash if he has ompleted twenty-five years or more of continuous se /ice at the date he leaves the employ of the Employe or dies.
Employer.
7.08
(1)	An employee must take his vacation to receive vacation pay.
Vacations are not cum ilative and cannot be transferred Into the following rear.
Employees who comple a one year of continuous service between August ' st and December 24th may elect to receive vacatl n time payment as per the Collective Labour Agree nent.
Employees completing (ne year of continuous service after December 24th wi receive vacation pay as per the Collective Labour A reement.
This clause to apply to I mployees in their first year ol
(2)	Vacation may be taken at anytime during the calendar year, at such time as may b* most convenient to the Employer, but every effort st1 II be made to schedule vacations at times suitable tc> he employees.
(3)	When booking vacations er ployees will be asked according to the job they acti illy own and not the job they are borrowed onto.
(4)
In computing the actual earrtl following items shall be inclu' actual wages earned (includir payment), vacation pay f® Worker's Compensation f?! Ontario Health Insurance Fl paid by the Employer on beha Work Week Benefits paid 1 Unemployment Benefit Plan
Rayments paid under the He greement.
gs for vacation pay, the id:
j bonuses and overtime the preceding year, ments for lost time, n premiums which are f of the employee, Short ider the Supplemental and \Afeekly Indemnity ilth and Life Insurance
(5)	When an employee is called tp work while on vacation he shall be paid at the rate o ime and one half for all regular hours worked Mond i to Saturday inclusive and double time for all hours orked on Sunday.
All lost vacation time involved in this arrangement will be rescheduled and taken by|year end.
ARTICLE 8- UNIONlSECURITY
8.01
(A)	Any employee who is a merr standing on the effectivedate Agreement, shall maintain Union as a condition of his c the duration of this Collectit the extent of paying union du1 constitution of the U.S.W.A. A union and uniformly require! Union as a condition of acc| bership therein.
er of the Union in good if this Collective Labour is membership in the ltlnued employment for Labour Agreement to in accordance with the determined by the local of all members of the ring or retaining mem-
(B)	Any employee in the Bargaining Unit who is not a member of the Union shall become a member of the
-35-
Union on the effective c of his continued emplc membership on the si extent provided in Subs
(C)	Any person hired on or Collective Labour Agri after such effective da union membership and tinued employment mal the same terms and to Subsection 8:01 (A).
8.02	The Company shall dad ber of the bargaining i fees and assessme Constitution of the Unic
8.03	The Company shall rei prior to the fifteenth (15 by cheque, as directec International Treasurer.
8.04	The monthly remittanc statement showing the whose pay deductions amount deducted for shall also list the name no deductions have be along with any forms Union.
e of his hiring as a condition nent and shall maintain his is terms and to the same :tion 8:01 (A).
fter the effective date of this ment or transferred therein shall make application for tall as a condition of his con-ain his union membership on 3 same extent as provided in
:t from the pay of each mem-it, weekly such union dues, as prescribed by the
t the amounts so deducted, ) day of the month following, ly the Union, payable to the
shall be accompanied by a ame of each employee from ive been made and the total e month. Such statements rf the employees from whom i made and the reason why iquired by the International
ARTICLE 0
GRIEVANCE AND ARBITRATION PROCEDURE
9.01
The parties hereto shall mee representatives respectively! dispute and/or grievance w the parties, every effort shal adjust any and all grievances
iirough their authorized discuss and adjust any :h may arise between be exerted mutually to vhich may arise.
A time and date for meetings Detween authorized representatives will be established within two working days after a request has been made by either party.
9.02 The Bargaining Committee, Consisting of five members, all of whom shall be regular employees of the Employer, being nineteen years of age or over, and all of whom shall have had at lejast one year of continuous service with the Employer, shall be elected by the employees of the Employer, vkrho are members of the Union, in a manner determined by the union, the Employer shall be informed by the Union of the personnel of that Committee; a representative from any department may be called in when deemed necessary by either party and may take part in negotiations until the completion of the particular grievance in question.
9.03 Any dispute or grievance bet veen the employee and the Employer shall be dealt w th as follows:
All time limits referred to in t re grievance procedure herein contained shall be de< med to mean • working days exclusive of Saturday, S jnday, or vacations and holidays as set out in 2.01 (h|.
STEP ONE
It is the mutual desire of the parties hereto, that complaints of employees be adjusted as quickly as possible, and it is generally understood that an employee or the Union has no grievance until the Area Manager involved has first been given bn opportunity to adjust the complaint. If the employe!) or the Union does not receives satisfactory answer.Vhen the following steps of the grievance procedure must be followed immediately.	1
-37-
STEP TWO
If no satisfactory solutloi Is reached at the discussion above mentioned, such employee may put his complaint in writing and pr isent It to his Steward, and each such complaint sh ill be a ‘‘grievance’’ subject to the procedure hereinafl )r In this Article set forth; a grievance may be disci ssed by the Steward and/or the Chief Steward and >r the Union Representative with the Area Manager c1 the Department In which the grievance occurred.
This written complaint must be presented to the Steward and the Comps ry within five working days of such complaint Incident.
The Area Manager shall give the Grlevor and Union a written reply not later th an three days after such discussion.
STEPTHREE
If no satisfactory solutioi is reached at the discussion in Step Two, such grleva ice may be discussed by the Bargaining Committal with the Manager Of Industrial/Relatlons/Ope atlons Manager and the necessary Management pei sonnel.
This meeting will occu within five days upon the Union presentation of he written grievance to the Manager Of Industrial R stations.
The Company shall glv the Union written reply not later than seven days i fter this meeting has taken place.
STEP FOUR
If no satisfactory solutio in Step Three, such gri the Bargaining Comml the International Union Employer as the Emplo pose; provided that the at liberty, and may be appear in person at a above set forth.
reached at the discussion nee may be discussed by and a Representative of such representativeof the nay nominate for such pur-qrieved employee shall be quired by either party, to stage of the negotiations
This meeting will take placd within five days upon Union presentation of the Written grievance to the Manager Of Industrial Relations. The Company shall give the Union a written reply not later than seven days after this meeting.
(1)	Any dispute betweenthe Employer and the Union as to interpretation of this Collective Labour Agreement and any allegation by either party that the other has violated any term of this Collective Labour Agreement shall tje deemed to be a grievance when notice in wfiting thereof has been delivered by the party corjislderlng itself aggrieved to the other party and shall be subject to arbitration as hereinafter in this Article set forth.
(2)	Such grievance shall jbe discussed by the Bargaining Committee ajnd at the option of the Union, a Representative of the International Union with such representatives of the Employer as deemed necessary.
(3)	If no satisfactory solution of any grievance In Step Five (1) and (2) is read id at the discussion In that Step, and In the ci ;e of any grievance in Section 9.03 which arise: out of a difference as to the Interpretation of i Is Collective Labour Agreement or an allegec /lolation of any term of this Collective Labour Ag lement, If no satisfactory solution of such grievai :e is reached at the discussion mentioned In £ ictlon 9.03 Step Four either party may refer su i grievance to a Single Arbitrator or Board Of Ar itration by delivering to the other party in writing within thirty-five days after the cessation of sue discussion.
NOTE:
(Where Single Arbitrator spears it shall have the same meaning as Board rf Arbitration).
(a)	A statement of intention |o refer the grievance to a Single Arbitrator.
(b)	A fair and just statement of the subject matter of the grievance.
-39-
(c)	"Company and Uni n recognize the arbitration provision under Sec on 45 of the Ontario Labour Relations Act and I lat upon mutual agreement either party may equest use of a Q.S.O. (Government Settle nent Officer). Also, either party may pursue the requirements of that Legislation and corr >ly with its provisions as set out In the said Act. “
9.04
Both parties shall there their representatives, ae (2), and agree upon the ter of the grievance me Five (3); and such stater Single Arbitrator hereins the parties are unable t ment, the party to whoi ered, shall deliver in wri thirty-five days of the de statement a counter-sta and the counter-statemi Single Arbitrator hereina
ipon meet together through provided in 9.03 Step Five tatement of the subject mat-tioned In Section 9.03 Step ent shall be submitted to the ter provided; provided that if agree upon the said state-i such statement was dellv-ng to the other party, within very of such last mentioned ament of the subject matter it shall be submitted to the ter provided.
party in writing, a stater int of the name of the person nominated to represer such party as the Single Arbitrator.
9.06 No person may be noi inated to be the Single Arbitrator who has either i rectly or indirectly attempted to negotiate or settle th grievance in dispute.
If they are unable to a ree upon a Single Arbitrator they shall forthwith req est the Ministry of Labour of The Province of Ontario to appoint a Single Arbitrator.
9.07	The Single Arbitrator si I meet promptly to hear and consider the grievance ith all reasonable dispatch, and the decision of the ngle Arbitrator shall be final and binding on both pa :s.
9.08	Each of the parties will j itly bearthe expensesof the arbitrator nominated.
9.09	The Single Arbitrator shall not have any power to alter or change any of the provislohs for any existing provision, or to give any decision inconsistent with the terms and provisions of this Collective Labour Agreement.
9.10	To facilitate the above procedure, it is agreed that all Employer's representatives pp to the Manager Of Industrial Relations, shall make every effort to effect a settlementto the grievance bV the close of three working days following the day thi grievance is presented and when they are unable td do so, shall notify the Steward in writing and kepp him informed as to progress being made; the final answer shall be in writing.
9.11	Any member of the Local Ejcecutive Board shall be permitted to enter the factory for the purpose of negotiating or making Investigation of a grievance, provided that he first requests and receives permission from the Area Manager for each visit; when necessary he may be accompanied by the Steward from the Department concerned, provided the Steward can be temporarily relieved from his 'duties without impairing the efficiency and production of the factory; the International Representatiieerhay have the privilege of entering the factory for investigating grievances if each visit is approved and a pass signed by the Plant Manager.
9.12	If an employee is discharged or suspended as a penalty by the Employer andl feels that he has been unjustly dealt with, he shall have the opportunity to talk with his Steward before hb leaves the factory and he shall, within five working dlays, notify the Employer and the Union in writing; sudh discharge or suspension as a penalty may then constitute a grievance and shall be dealt with according [to Section 9.03, if subsequently, it is decided that this employee was unjustly discharged or suspended as a penalty, he shall be reinstated in his former position and shall be compensated at his regular rate of pa^ for time lost, subject to the following provisions:
-41-
The Single Arbitrator will decrease the penalty if hi tify this action and will he amount of pay the emplc od of his discharge or quently reinstated, In ce the employee is to reci Arbitrator shall deduct th by the employee from Unemployment Insuranc employee during the per charge and retained by f
Every effort shall be mi within thirty days, It Is Manager will Inform the pension as a penalty as
lave the right to Increase or feels the circumstances jus-re authority to determine the 'ee Is to receive for the peri-uspensiOh, if he is subse-culating the amount <f pay ve If reinstated the Single srefrom any monies earned >ther employment and any ) Benefits received by the ad of his suspension or dis-m.
fe to settle such grievance understood that the Area toward of discharge or sus-oon as possible.
It is mutually agreed the If either party Is unable to meet the above dates i lat a reasonable extension period will be granted pr< /Ided written notice Is given.
9.13
(1) In all cases of arbitration a single arbitrator will b substituted for the Board Of, rbitratlon provided for In this Article 9 unless the Unlo i and the Employer mutually agree to proceed by me? is of a Board of Arbitration.
(2) In all cases of substituti in of a single arbitrator for a Board of Arbitration as lutlined in Subsection (1) of Section 9.13, all other a ipllcable provisions of Article 9 will continue to apply t a far as they are relevant.
9.14	There will be one regi lar monthly meeting of the Bargaining Committee v ith the Employer held during office hours; Special Mi etings may be called at the request of either party.
9.15
(1) An employee will be give i a copy of any notation concerning his misconduct i r Inefficiency at the time It Is placed In his personal re :ord. A copy of every notation will be forwarded to the lecretary of the Union by the Manager of Industrial Ri lations of the employer.
(2)	Notations reporting offenses, exclusive of the violation tf the no-strike provisions in| the Collective Labour Agreement, not repeated within a one year period will be disregarded in the administration of discipline.
(3)	Notations reporting offenses involving violation of the no-strike provisions in the Collective Labour Agreementnot repeatedwlthln a three year period will be disregarded in the administration of discipline.
ARTICLE 10 - MISCELLANEOUS
10.01	The Employer will provide reasonable protective devices and other equipment necessary to protect the employees from injury and sickness; the Union agrees to co-operate with the Employer in the use tf these devices and in the elimination of all industrial accidents.
10.02	The Employer agrees to pe|mit the Union to post notices of meetings and other union business or affairs on Bulletin Boards throughout the factory provided for such purposes; it Is agreed however that such Bulletins shall be approved by the Manager Industrial Relations of the Employer and posted by members of the Employer’s Personnel Department.
10.03	The Employerwill furnish a list of employees and probationers entering and exiting the plant at the end of each week.
10.04	The Employer agrees tc| maintain adequate Cafeterlas/Smoke Places for the employees.
Employees will co-operate in maintaining the cleanliness and the proper use cf these facilities to avoid suspension of these privilege^.
10.05	Employees shall be at their work places ready to work at scheduled starting times. Employees shall not quit work until their designated qujtting time.
10.06	Employees from the Bowmartville Factory who work on out-of- plant operations, in addition to being fully
-43-
covered by this Collec entitled to the followin'
(a)	Transportation will be location.
(b)	All hours when travelll will be paid at straight
(c)	Payment for travelling idays shall be premi accommodations are |
(d)	When driving an Empl paid straight time if C hours, Monday to Frid
Driving beyond the i Sundays and holiday one-half. On Sundays, paid at double time.' 7:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m are necessary.
(e)	Employees will be pai mum of eight hours pi on Saturdays, Sunday
(f)	All meals in transit will
(g)	Single accommodatior provided by the Emplc
(h)	Laundry service will bf
(I) The Employer where p a short leave of abs forty-eight hours in tt mately every six wet Transportation will be ( allowance for travellin1 Paragraph10.06 0) will
G) A minimum pay of elj Friday inclusive will be
e Labour Agreement, shall be benefits:
irovided to and from the job
j from Monday through Friday me.
i Saturdays, Sundays and hol-n pay up to when sleeping ovided.
'er's vehicle employees will be ving within regular daily shift ' inclusive.
gular shift hours, except on , will be paid at time and nd on holidays, driving will be e recognized shift hours are sxcept when additional crews
at premium pay up to a maxiday when held over on a job or holidays.
e paid for by the Employer.
for a room and board will be sr where practical.
paid for by the Employer.
actlcal will grant upon request ence to allow approximately a Bowmanville area approxi-<s of continuous field work, ovldejf by the Employerbutno time will be paid. However, be observed where applicable.
ht hours per day, Monday to guaranteed.
4-
(k)	Company to supply same Ihealth coverages for employees when out of the country as they have in plant.
(l)	Employees are allowed at lejast eight hours off in between shifts.
(m)	If shift hours necessitate more than twelve hour shifts, a second crew will be instituted when known in advance.
(n)	Protective clothing supplied reiweather and job conditions.
(o)	Field Splice Crews will be paid the applicable rate of pay as indicated in Department 2722.
(p)	Employees allowed to phone home within reasonable time limits.
(q)	Reasonable accommodation^ will be provided for employees when work not required during shift.
(r)	Work will not be performed by.Local 189’s employees that normally is performed by J>ther Unions.
(s)	Employeeswho return to the blent in mid-week will be scheduled on the dayshift for the remainder of the week.
10.07	Employees posting or transferring to Receiving/ Shipping Room must gain povyer truck license before being qualified on job.
10.08	When scheduled and actual working on Banbury, employees will work bell to bell and be allotted eighteen minutes after their shift nas ended for wash-up purposes.
Time and one-half will be paidjfor these wash-up periods.
-45-
ARTICLE 11
DURATION OF COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT 11.00
(1) During the term of this Agreement, the Union and the Company each shall have the right to reopen the Agreement for monetary negotiation purposes.
Written notification of sjuch intention to the other party not more than 90 calendar days, prior to February 19, 2001.
In the event such noti begin within thirty (30) mutually agreed otherwise,
:e is given, negotiations shall calendar day* thereafter unless
(2) If negotiations are satisfactorily concluded prior to February 19, 2001 (or the otherwise mutually agreed upon date), this Agreement and the supplements thereto shall continue n effect, a6 modified by the Agreement(s) reached
(3)
In the event negotiate eluded prior to Februar i the supplements there ti either party may, witljii Invoke arbitration, but
ns are not satisfactorily con-19,2001, this Agreement and lo shall remain in effect and n thirty (30) calendar days, with respect to:
qnly
(a)	Hourly wages
(b)	Changes only to tt s following plans as outlined In the established ci 'rent contract - Pension, Life Insurance, De ital, Extended Health, Hospitalization, an I Severance.
(4)	If arbitration is involved arbitration proceeding, thirty (30) calendar d arbitration, serve on e package on the issue; and shall not later that either party Invokes arl offer package to the A statement supporting I simultaneously send e ing statement to the ot reply to the other's wr endar days.
it shall be an offer package for The parties shall not later than ys after either party Invokes ch other their respective offer Identified In 3 (A & B) above, hlrty (30) calendar days after ration, submit their respective litrator with a detailed written position. The Arbitrator shall ih parties' offer and support->r party. Each party may file a en statement within (30) cal-
-46-
It is mutually agreed that if either party is unable to meet the above dates that a re asonable extension will be granted provided written notice is given.
Each of the parties will jointly bear the expenses of the arbitrator selected.
The Arbitrator shall be jointly selected by the parties, with preference given to Arbitrators who have experience in the rubber industry.The conduct and scheduling of the hearing and all other procedural issues shall be agreed to by the parties. In the event the parties are unable to reach agreement on such procedural issues, the Arbitrator shall provide reasonable guidelines.
11.01	Save as to the Pension Plan and Severance Award Agreement, the Health and Life Insurance Agreement, and the Supplemental Unemployment Benefits Plan signed between the same Parties, this Collective Labour Agreement constitutes the entire one between Employer and the Union; it shall remain in force from the 20th day of February, 1998 to the 19th day of PBDruary, 20U4, ana tnereatter from year to year umBss euriar party gives to the other party notice in writing of cancellation or of proposals for revision within a period of not less than two months or more than three months prior to the anniversary date.
11.02
(a)	If either party gives to thq other a notice of cancellation in accordance With the provisions of Section 11.01, this Collective Labour Agreement shall terminate in accordance with such notice.
(b)	If either party gives to the other a notice of proposals for revision in accordance with the provisions of Section 11.01, the parties shall meet to consider the proposed revision within fifteen days of the date of delivery of such notice. If no agreement on the proposed revision is reached by midnight, February 19, 2004 or by midnight of any other subsequent anniversary date, as the case may be, this Collective Agreement shall be continued in operation for a period not exceeding one
-47-
year less one day until a new Collective Labour Agreement Is reac led or until procedure contemplated by Section '2 (2) of the Labour Relations Act has been com ileted.
11.03 Notwithstanding the p ovislons contained in Section
11.01	and 11.02, eithe party may apply to the Ontario Labour Relations Boa d for permission to terminate this Collective Labour \greement In accordance with the following provision :
(a)	Article 8 of the Pens! n Plan and Severance Award Agreement executed b tween the same parties on the 20th day of February,; 004.
(b)	Part V of the Health nd Life Insurance Agreement executed between the ame parties on the 20th day of February, 1998, which parts are hereby made pari of this Collective Labour ,greementa*id in the eventthe other party shall Join in such application to the Ontario Labour Relations Boai I.
INTERIM WAC E INCREASES
1.	The amount of interir increase shall be calculated and recalculated as pn vided below on the basis of the Consumer Price Index published by Statistics Canada (1971=100) and hereii after referred to as the C.P.I.
2.	First Year to Agreerm nt
(a)	“The base for calculat an" - the average C.P.I. for the months of Decembt r 1997, January 1998 and February 1998.
(b)	The first adjustment w..l be calculated and paid as of the pay period comm icing May 17, 1998. It will reflect one cent (1 c) p hour for each full .26 points that the average C.P.I lor the months of February 1998, March 1998 ant tpril 1998 exceeds the base for calculation.
(c)	A second adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay period commencing August 16, 1998. It will reflect one cent (1?) pfer hour for each full .26 points
-48-
that the average C.P.I. for the months of May 1998, June 1998 and July 1998, ex Beds the base for calculation.
(d)	A third adjustmentwill be calculated and paid as of the pay period commencing November 15, 1998. It will reflect one cent (1c) per hourlfor each full .26 points that the average C.P.I. for the months of August 1998, Septemberl 998 and October J 998, exceeds the base for calculation.
(e)	A fourth adjustmentwill be calculated and paid as of the pay period commencing February 21,1999. It will reflect one cent (le) per hourlfor each full .26 points
that the average C.P.I, for the months of November
1998,	December 1998 and January 1999, exceeds the base for calculation.
3,	Second Year of Agreement
(a)	‘The base for calculation” - the average C.P.I. for the months of December 199Ef, January 1999 and February 1999.
(b)	The first adjustmentwill be calculated and paid as of the pay period commencing | May 16, 1999. It will reflect one cent (1c) per hour for each full .26 points that the average C.P.I. for the months of February
1999,	March 1999 and April j999 exceeds the base for calculation.
(c)	A second adjustmentwill be calculated and paid as of the pay period commencing August 15, 1999. It will reflect one cent (1c) per hourlfor each full .26 points that the average C.P.I. for the months of May 1999, June 1999 and July 1999, expeeds the base for calculation.
(d)
A third adjustmentwill be calc1 lated and paid as of the pay period commencing November 21, 1999. It will reflect one cent (le) per houf for each full .26 points that the average C.P.I. for the months of August 1999, September 1999 and October 1999, exceeds the base for calculation.
-49-
(e) A fourth adjustment v the pay period comm reflect one cent (1C) that the average C.P 1999, December 199 the base for calculatic
I be calculated and paid as of icing February 20, 2000. It will )r hour for each full .26 points for the months of November and January 2000, exceeds
4.	Third Year of Agreer mt
(a) "The base for calcula Dn” - the average C.P.I. for the months of Deoemb r 1999, January 2000 and February 2000.
(b) The first adjustment \ the pay period commf one cent (1 c) per hoi average C.P.I. for the i 2000 and April 2000 <
II be calculated and paid as of clng May 21,2000. It will reflect for each full .26 points that the onths of February 2000, March ceeds the base for calculation.
(c)	A second adjustment the pay period comn reflect one cent (1C) that the average C.P June 2000 and July I culation.
ill be calculated and paid as of nclng August 20, 2000. It will sr hour for each full .26 points for the months of May 2000, (00, exceeds the base for cal-
(d)	A third adjustmentwill je calculated and paid as of the pay period commencing November 19, 2000. It will reflect one cent (le)per hour for each full .26 points that the average C.P.lJfor the months of August 2000, September2000 and (pctober 2000, exceeds the base for calculation.
5.	In the event Statistic Canada does not issue the appropriate Consume Price Index on or before the date on which adjust nent Is to be calculated, any adjustment required vt II be made at the beginning of the first pay period foil wing receipt of the index.
6.	No adjustments, retri active or otherwise, shall be made due to any revis Dn which may later be made in any published Consu ner Price Index by Statistics Canada.
7.	Continuation of the interim acMstments is dependent
upon the availability of the ostial Statistics Canada Consumer's Price Index calculated on the same basis and in the same form of that published for February 1983.	i
8.	Each adjustment specified in the Interim Wage Increase Formula will replacd the previous adjustment, if any, in its entirety except the fourth adjustment inthefirstyearofthe CollectivelLabourAgreementwill be carried over throughout the pecond and third years of the Collective Agreement and fourth adjustment in the second year of the Collective Labour Agreement will be carried over throughout the third year of the Collective Labour Agreement.
APPENDIX A
COLLECTIVE LABOURTTGREEMENT 12 HOUR DAY, FOUR 4) CREW WORK SCHEDULE
It is understood and agreed that in oi the Bowmanville Factory, the Employ all operations on a 12-hour contlnuoi ule, as per Attachment A
When it becomes necessary for the one or more of the plant's operation < ous work schedule, a joint committee Union and Company's Bargaining C< lished. The function of this commltte recommend practices for the transfi operations affected in keeping with tb in Article 6 of the Collective Labour Ac problems as they arise. Agreed to pr as per main plant continuous operatic
ler to make full use of r may schedule any or s, 4 crew work sched-
Employerto schedule nthe 12-hour continu-made up of the Local mmittee will be estab-will be to review and r of personnel to the principles established ■eementandto resolve ictices will be followed h write up.
The terms and Conditions of t e Collective Labour Agreement will apply to all employees who are scheduled on the 12-hour continuous work schedule with the following exceptions:
-51-
1.	In reference to Sectloi employees on the 12-1 the regular twenty-eig between thirty-six (3 hours work per week, cycle, the employee sixty-eight (168) hours half).
2.	The provision under employees on the 12-1
3.	In‘ reference to Sectii 12-hour continuous w will be based on applli Howeverwhen an em falls on a contract api (12) twelve hours pa) employee will receive | holiday provided all otl
4.	In reference to Sectior 12-hour continuous wc for an employee will cc (4).
5.	In reference to Sectioi Agreement bereaverrv average hourly earnir upon his regular worki absence, to a maxim death and funeral, pr scheduled to work du days shall be three ( include scheduled da) not compensated.
1.01	as per Attachment A for ur continuous work schedule, (28) day schedule will vary hours and forty-eight (48) ver the twenty-eight (28) day /III work one hundred and ight (8) hours at time and one
>ction 5.06 will not apply to ur continuous work schedule.
7.03 for employees on the k schedule, holiday payment ble Average Hourly Earnings, eyee’s regular work schedule )ved holiday he shall receive f not scheduled to work the eight hours pay for each said r terms of the CLA are met.
1.01	(m) for employees on the ; schedule, the vacation week mence as per Article 2.01 (m)
5.16	of the Collective Labour t will be compensated at his i for the time so lost by him I schedule by reason of such i of three (3) days for each Ided that the employee was g that period. Such three (3) consecutive days, and may off for which the employee is
This provision to appl)) when It Is necessary for the employee to make arrangements andlor attend the funeral.
When an employee is shift and is notified o 5.18 that shift absenc first day when calculai
'orking his regular scheduled i death as outlined in Article will not be considered as the g bereavement pay.
-52-
Common-law relationships according to Government law will be so recognized.
6.	In reference to 2.01 (m) (3) la Statutory Holiday is deemed to be from 7:00 am in| the morning of the holiday and finishes 7:00 am the day immediately following the holiday.
7.	In reference to Section 5.14,i shift premium of fifty cents per hour will be paid for) all hours worked from 3:00 p.m. to 11:00 p.m. and fifty-five cents per hour for all hours worked from 11:00 p.^n. to 7:00 a.m.
8.	In reference to Article 4 and Article 10.04, the Employer agrees to provide two 12) twenty (20) minute lunch periods and three (3) ten (10) minute smoke periods per shift for those employees on the 12-hour continuous work schedule. 1
9.	The 12-hour continuous work schedule crew premiums will not be included In the calculation of the employee's Average Hourly Eirnlngs and will not be subject to the overtime provisions.
10.	The Company will notify the Union and post with a Thirty Day Notice beforeimplei)nentlng the Continuous Work Week Schedule.
Implementation of the Continuous Schedule must be enacted within a fourteen day period following the Thirty Day Notice, or an additonal Thirty Day Notice will be required.
11.	Any employee receiving overtime rate of pay will not receive the ninety cents (90e) premium as well.
12.	Those employees working duijing the daylight saving time change will be paid ond hour from the S.U.B. Fund at straight time.
13.	Any employee involved when Switching back in the fall standard time will receive onelhour pay at the applicable overtime rate.
-53-
14.	If an employee is calk period his/her pay will
15.	Any lime less than em will be paid from S.U.E noted in 17 below.
16.	When an employee wl not qualified for a sho be provided so he doe
17.	Loss of shift due to £ ployee will be paid AH shift hours which were
18.	When the Thirty Day N the Continuous Work V if any employee, whetl so desire the job. The i with junior employees has the option to stay added to five day sche
19.	If there Is a cut back o lowest service employe operation.
20.	When the regular five the highest service Continuous Work Schi so desired and that pi recallable person an< Collective Labour Agre
21.	When borrowed off tt during that week, the £ cents (90«) premium.
22.	When borrowed during you will receive the nln hours after you have ' worked on Continuous
23.	When scheduling fi Continuous or vise ver anteed his two day we per day. If he decide; receive premium pay.
I to work within an eight hour e as per C.L.A.
loyee's scheduled work hours Fund as per C.L.A. except as
less than one year service is work week benefit, work will not lose time.
iy schedule change, the em-for his/her regular scheduled ost (eight or twelve hours).
ties is given on the start up of aek a list will be posted to see sr high service or low service, st of the positions will be filled The higher service employee f so desired, when crews are ule.
regular five day schedule the i will bump into the continuous
ay schedule is adding crews, qualified employee on the lule will fill the vacancy first if iltion will be filled by the next If no one Is recallable the ment will apply.
i Continuous Work Schedule nployee will receive the ninety
<our scheduled five day week, y cents (900) premium for all irked the first eight hours, if fork Schedule.
m five day schedule to t, the employee will be guar-end at no loss of eight hours to work at this time he will
-54-
24,	If an employee decides to wo k any of his two day optional weekend he will notify the Company by 7:00 a.m. Friday morning.
25.
If a Shift change occurs in whereby employee only has schedules, then the employei pay for the first day of the new
Continuous Schedule ine day off between will receive premium chedule.
Every effort will be made to ml mlze this occurrence.
26.
When an employee has not be
hours and report the following
n notified of a change
i work prior to his new ime aria be paid four
ay on his proper shift.
If an employee reports for work jthe following shift from his new starting time he will receive twelve hours pay at A.H.E, for the shift he missed. He will be directed to report on his proper shift or if tie is offered a full shift of work it will be considered as jovertlme provided that the conditions were within the employer's control and that the employee has advised fie employerof his last and correct address.
27.	When an employee is transferred from one schedule to another within the Continental operation he will not lose money.
28.	Refrigerators will be provided fpr those employees on twelve hour shifts.
29.	For those employees on a twelve hour shift one additional lunch period and one additional smoke period will be provided.
30.	Employee is guaranteed forty hours pay when going in or out of Continuous Schedule.
31.	This Appendix to become part df the Collective Labour Agreement.
32.	When it becomes necessary to work overtime on a statutory holiday, the crews normally scheduled to work that day will be given first opportunity to work.
-55-
12 HOUR CONTINI WORK D- DAY SHIF 28 D/
WORK SCHEDULE CREW PREMIUMS OVERTIME PROVISIONS 1 st Scheduled Day Off:
2nd Scheduled Day Off:
3rd Scheduled Day Off:
'US, FOUR (4) CREW fHEDULE J-NIGHT SHIFT CYCLE
as per attached $0.90 per hour worked
Time And One-Half Double Time Time And One-Half
A-CREW#1 A-CREW #2 A-CREW#3 A CREW #4
D-Day Shift N-Night Shift V\feek Starts V\feek Ends
12 HOUR CONTINUOUS SCHEDULE
SMTWTFS
- NN - -DD N--DD---DD--NN D - - NN - -
SMTWTFS
D- - NN - --NN--DD N--DD---DD - -NN
SMTWTFS
-DD--NN D--NN---NN--DD N--DD - -
7:00 a.m. - 7:00 p.m. *Days as indicated28 Day cycle 7:00 p.m. - 7:00 a.m.
7:00 p.m. - Saturday
7:00 p.m. - The Following Saturday
SMTWTFS
N--DD---DD--NN D--NN---NN- -DD
LETTERS OF l JDERSTANDING
LETTER NO. ONE
This letter will confirm that tl coveralls to Engineering, Sh House and Banbury employ*
The Company will ensure t coveralls are available (clear
Employees are expected to i
Should the Company stop th fee structure will be re-lmple
LETTER NO. TWO
This letter will serve to confi by the Company during race working conditions or earr improvements will be discus the Union before becoming <
LETTER NO.THREE
This letter Is to confirm the recent negotiations that If a1 scheduled for the Bowmanvl fy the Union by April 1 of ths will take place.
The Company will endeavo employees on vacation durin customer requirements anr downs.
i present practice of supplying ping, Receiving, Lab, Cement ss will continue.
it a sufficient supply of clean oair for each working shift).
i-operate with this program.
; program a clothing allowance anted.
Bargaining
Committee to
i the undertaking given to you t negotiations. Any changes in igs, caused by technological sd between the Company and arative.
jnderstanding reached during cation plant shutdown Is to be ) Plant, the Company will noti-year as to when the shutdown
r to maximize the number of prime time In accordance with other Goodyear Plant shut-
This letter will serve to conf m the undertaking given to you by the Company that closed :ircuit television will not be used for the purpose of observim employees in the performance of their regular duties excep for reasons of Security, Quality
If any such installation is made in the future, the Union will be notified in advance.
LETTER NO. FIVE
This letter will confirm the Company' policy with respect to the contracting out of work, as follow:
The contracting out of work Is the jt8le prerogative of the Company. However, where it is practijfj to do so and provided that additional cost will not be emailed by the Company, the Company will endeavourto use in1 own Maintenance and Engineering, employees provided flit they are qualified, available and willing to do the work.
The Company will notify the Union, In advance if possible, when an outside contractor is to be Engaged to do work in the plant.
LETTER NO. SIX
An employee who is absent from work because of bodily injury caused by accident or slckne: s and who has accumulated seniority and service in acc< rdance with the provisions of Section 6.06 shall be entitle f to retain such accumulated service and seniority togethe ’ with his prior credited service and seniority so long as he remains disabled because of injury and is not able t< i return to work or to accept other employment. If he shouli I accept other employment during such absence he shal be deemed to have resigned.
LETTER NO. SEVEN
This letter is to confirm the undertaking given by the Company at the recent negotiations.
Members of the Union Executive u an as a group will be reimbursed by the Company up to a tal of twentyfour hours per week, non-accumulative, at I 3 applicable average hourly earnings provided the mer er, or members, are engaged in local union business.
The Union President shall submit for approval to the Company’s Manager Of Industrial Relations a list of those members of the Union Executive to be reimbursed, together with the number of hours to which eaph Is entitled.
-59-
LETTER NO. NINE
It Is mutually agreed that If a Is reintroduced Into the p Labour Agreement April 6, reviewed and reinstated wh<
lece work structure of payment it, Clauses In the Collective 86 - February 19, 1989 will be a necessary.
-bo-
The red circle rates established at tha time of the piece work removal will remain in effect with all yrage increases included.
LETTER NO. FOURTEEN
The Company will consider and review the feasibility of implementing an Apprenticeship Projgram For Certain Skill Trades.
If the Company so implements an ImHouse Apprenticeship Program, Local 189 Bargaining Unit will be invited to assist with the details connected with such 4 program.
LETTER NO. FIFTEEN
Employees upon entering a Comrpon-Law relationship-must provide a fully completed firm to the Industrial Relations Department to enable the relationship to be valid for Company Benefits.
Eligible Company benefits will be granted after receipt of such written notice and a one year period.
New hlrees must provide acceptable proof of their Common-Law status.
LETTER NO. SIXTEEN
The privilege of trading shifts will be granted six times per calendar year based upon the followiijig conditions:
A fully completed application requestform must be submitted to Management at least one day in advance.
Permission by Management will be contingent upon qualifications and abilities of the replacement employee's abilities to perform the work scheduled during requested shift.
This privilege is not transferable.
Failure to comply with this letter will result in personal suspension of shift trading privileges.
ALL ABOVE LETTERS FORM PART OF THE COLLECTIVE LABOUR AGREEMENT.
-61-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF t 3 parties hereto have hereunto signed the 19th day of Mari ,1998.
LOCAL 189 OFTHE
UNITED STEELWORKER: OF AMERICA
B.	MURPHY R. ASARO
C.	WOODROW N. RUITER
P, DADSON
GOODYEAR CANADA INC BOWMANVILLE FACTORY
C.TRIM J. BRENT B. FRANCIS J. LOGEL W. OLSON
ALPHABETICAL INDEX
	SECTION	PAGE
Addresses	6.'o4 (2) (a)	16
Agreement Cancellation	11.0Z-3	45
Agreement Duration Arbitration Board	11.01	39
Nominees	9.05-6	40
Decision	9.07	40
Arbitration Expense	9.08	40
Arbitration - Notice Of	9.03 (3)	39
Arbitration ■ Subject Cf Arbitration - Single Arbitrator	9.04	40
Bargaining Committee Meeting Bargaining Committee Meeting Payment For Bargaining Committee		
Personnel	9.02	37
Bargaining Unit - Recognition	3.01	4
Bereavement Pay Breakdowns- Controllable	5.16	14
Breakdowns- Minimum Pay Crew Progression	6.20(1) (2)	25
Crew Regression	6.20 (3)	26
Discharged Or Suspension As Penalty	9.12	41
Emergency Work • Wages	5.07	11
Engineering Division Seniority	6.03	16
Entrances & Exits- List of Experimental Work Payment	10.03	43
First Aid Payment Grievance Investigation- Union	5 09	12
Officers	9.11	41
Grievance Procedure	9.03	37
Grievance Settlement	■ 9.10	40
Holidays	2.01 (h)	2
Holidays Starting Time	7.01	27
Holiday During Vacation Holiday Pay Qualification	7.06 7.05	28 28
Holiday Pay	7.02	27
Holiday Pay-Time Worked	7.04	27
Holiday Pay- First Shift Following
-63-
	SECTION	PAGE
Hours - Standard	4.01	5
Interpretation Of Agreement		
Dispute	9.01	37
Interpretation of Terms	2.01-2	4
Jury Duty		
Lay-off Probationer	6.12	21
Lay-off Procedure	6.13(1) (2)	21
Lay-off Union Officers	6.07	18
Lay-off Notice	6.15	23
Leave Of Absence - Female Leave of Absence - Union	6.09	20
Officers	6.07 (2) (3)	18
Lunch Intermissions	4.01	5
Lunch - Provision On Overtii	4.02 (o)	7
Management Functions	3.02	5
Minimum HiringWage Rates	5.03 (1) (2)	10
New Employees- Paymentc		
Dues	8.01 (b) (c)	34
Notation On Record	9.15 (1)	
Notation- Duration Of Recoi	9.15(2) (3)	42
Notices- Union	10.02	43
Out-Of-Plant Operation	10.06	43
Overtime Distribution Overtime Out-Of-Plant	4.04	7
Operation	10.06 (d) (e)	43
Overtime Payment	5.06	11
Overtime- Reduction Of Hou	4.03	7
Overtime Work	4.02	7
Payment - Work Run Out Permission For Entry To	5.05 (1)	11
Factory Union Officers Piecework Rate • Grievance Piecework Rates ■ Establishmentof	9.11	41
Shift Premium	5.14 (8)	14
Probationer	2.01 (f)	2
Protective Equipment	10.01 •	43
Qualifications	2.01 (i)	3
Quitting Work Before Time	10.05	43
	SECTION	PAGE
Recall	6.13 (c) (d)	23
Recognition Of Bargaining Unit	3.01	4
Records- Seniority	6.18	25
Relief Help	4.06	9
Seniority Calculation	6.01	15
Seniority - List Of Classified &		
Unclassified Jobs	6.19	25
Seniority List- Posting	6.17	24
Seniority- Engineering Division	6.03	16
Seniority- Loss Of	6.04	16
Seniority • Sickness	6.06	17
Shift Premiums		
Smoking Areas	10.04	43
Strikes, Lockouts, Shutdowns etc.	3.04	5
Supervision - Return To		
Employee Status	6.16	23
Supervisors & Salaried		
Employees •		
Work Performed by		
Temporary Work Payment	5.04 (1)	10
Study Time Lost - Company Request 5.12		12
Time Lost- Payment For	5.08-9	11
Time Changes Sheets	4.05	9
Transfers- Payment On	5.03 (2)	10
Transfers • Refusal	6,14	23
Transfers At Employee's		
Request	6.17(2)	24
Transfer Provision	6.02	15
Union Dues- Deductions	8.01-2-3-4	34
Union Officers - Lay-offs &		
Leave of Absence	6.07	18
Vacations - Eligibility & Pay	7.07	29
Vacation -When Taken	7.08	33
Violation Of Agreement	9.03	37
Wages Rates ■ General		
Adjustment	5.01	10
Wage Rates- Individual		
Adjustment	5.02	10
Wage • Minimum	5.03	10
Work Run Out	5.05	11
Work - Temporary & Experimental
-65-