COLLECTIVE LABOUR
AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
GOODYEAR CANADA INC. MEDICINE HAT PLANT AND G.E.L. WAREHOUSE THE EMPLOYER
AND
LOCAL UNION 628 OF THE
UNITED RUBBER, CORK, LINOLEUM AND
PLASTIC WORKERS OF AMERICA FOR THE ASSOCIATES
FEBRUARY 13, 1993 FEBRUARY 12, 1996
ARTICLE INDEX
ARTICLE 1
Purpose ...................................
ARTICLE 2
Interpretation ............................
ARTICLE 3
Scope of Agreement ........................
ARTICLE 4
Hours of Work .............................
ARTICLE 5
Rates of Pay ......................*.......
ARTICLE 6
Seniority .................................
ARTICLE 7
Designated Holidays .......................*
ARTICLE 8
Vacations .................................
ARTICLE 9
Union Security ............................
ARTICLE 10
Grievance and Arbitration Procedure . . . . ARTICLE 11
Miscellaneous .............................
ARTICLE 12
Duration of Collective Agreement ..........
APPENDIX A
Job Rates & Classifications ...............
APPENDIX B
Interim Increase Formula ..................
APPENDIX C
Crew Progression and Regression ...........
APPENDIX D
5 Day, or 6 2/3 Crew Work Schedule ........
PAGE
1
2
4
5 8
13
26
28
32
34
38
40
42
44
47
48
LETTERS
49
53
ALPHABETICAL INDEX
- 1 -
COLLECT TVF, T.ABOUR AGREEMENT	)
1
This Collective Labour Agreement is made and entered into as of the	l
13th day of February 1993, between Goodyear Canada	Inc. with	j
respect to certain associates at its Medicine Hat Plant,	and G.E.L.	i
Warehouse, hereinafter referred to as the "employer"	and Local	\
Union 628 of the United Rubber, Cork, Linoleum and Plastic Workers	;
of America, hereinafter referred to as the "union".
ARTTCLE 1 PURPOSE
1.01
1.02
1.03
Tt is the mutual desire of the contracting parties to promote co-operation and harmony and to provide an amicable method of settling any dispute or grievance that might arise between them.
They agree to work in harmonious relationship and undertake:
(a)	that there shall be no discrimination, interference, restraint or coercion by or on behalf °f the employer regarding any associate covered by this Agreement because of membership or non-membership in the union;
(b)	that the union, its members or its agents shall not intimidate or coerce said associates into membership.
The company and the union are committed to the principle of "equality in employment" for all persons regardless of race, national or ethnic origin, colour, marital status, religion, sex, age or mental or physical disability.
This principle embraces all matters pertaining to associate interaction, not solely employment practices designed to eliminate discriminatory barriers and to provide in a meaningful way, equitable opportunities in employment.
Decisions regarding recruitment and selection of applicants for employment will be based on the qualifications of the individual.
2.01
- 2 -
ARTICLE 2 INTERPRETATION
In this Collective Agreement and its application, unless
the context requires otherwise, the following words and
expressions will have the meaning hereafter given to
them:
(a)	"employer" means Goodyear Canada Inc., Medicine Hat Plant, and Medicine Hat Warehouse, Medicine Hat, Alberta.
(b)	"a ssociate" means and includes all hourly-rated associates of the employer at its Medicine Hat Plant and its Medicine Hat Warehouse, below the level of shift co-ordinator, with the exception of office associates, security guards, production squadron training group, and production schedulers.
(c)	"probationer" means an associate without seniority.
(d)	"probationary period" means the earlier of either the period of six (6) cumulative months or four (4) consecutivemonths during any twenty-four (24) month period during which the probationer works for the employer prior to acquiring seniority rights.
The company and union may mutually agree to extend a probationary period when required.
No associate will serve his/her probationary period in the capacity of a "temporary vacation relief" person.
(e)	"Qualification" means the ability to perform the operation to which an associate is assigned in a competent manner and to produce the same standard of quantity and quality of work as is usually obtained from such operation; "to qualify" and "qualified" shall have a like meaning.
(f)	"Surplus associate" means an associate on lay-off status from his/her regular operation for an indefinite period.
(g)	"Lay-off" means the termination of work of an associate by the employer for an indefinite period, caused by the decision of the employer to reduce or eliminate the work upon which the associate was engaged; "laid off" shall have a like meaning.
3-
2.01 cont'd
(h)	The term "job rate" or "rate of pay" shall mean the rate per hour for all day work operations.
(i)	"Job rate" shall mean the hourly rate per appendix "A" that an associate shall be paid for all hours worked on that operation or another operation to which he/she is assigned unless the assigned operation warrants a higher job rate. In such case, the higher job rate will be paid for all hours worked on that operation provided a satisfactory effort is made.
(j)	The term "vacancy" shall not include a vacancy
caused by any of the following:
(1)	when an associate is absent by reason of sickness;
(2)	when an associate is on vacation;
(3)	when an associate is on an authorized leave of
absence;
(4)	when a qualified associate is in lay-off status except as provided in Section 6.13, subsection 3 of this Collective Agreement.
(k)	"Factory seniority" means the status	that an
associate acquires after he/she has worked for the employer for the earlier of either six (6) cumulative months or four (4) consecutive months in any twenty four (24) month period.
(l)	"Department seniority" means the status that an
associate (with factory	seniority) in	the
Engineering Division acquires after he/she has worked for the employer for the earlier of either six (6) cumulative months or four (4) consecutive months in any twenty-four (24) month period in the same department.
(m)	"Classified job seniority" means the status that an associate with factory seniority acquires after he/she has worked for the employer for the earlier of either six (6) cumulative months or four (4) consecutive months in any twenty four (24) month period on the same classified job.
2.01
3.01
3.02
cont'd
4 -
(n.) The term "credited service” means the service of an associate with the employer as it appears on his/her recordmaintained by the employer in conformity with the Collective Labour Agreement. The terms "credited service" and "continuous service" as used throughout this agreement shall be synonymous. The records of the employer shall be presumed to be conclusive of the facts concerning the service, employment, non-employment, or disability retirement of an associate, a former associate, pensioner or applicant for a pension, unless shown beyond a reasonable doubt to be incorrect.
(o)	"Crew seniority" means the status that an associate acquires in respect to the time accumulated by him/her while working on any crew within the same department, working on the same operation.
(p)	"Temporary" or temporary period shall mean a period of time not to exceed three (3) consecutive months duration, except where an associate is assigned to cover for absenteeism due to sickness, vacation or authorized leave of absence.
ARTICLE 3
SCOPE OF AGREEMENT
The terms of this Collective Agreement shall apply to all associates who are defined in the certificate issued by the Board of Industrial Relations of the Province of Alberta, and the employer recognizes the union as the sole collective bargaining agent for the said associates for the duration of this Collective Agreement.
The union acknowledges that it is the exclusive function of the employer:
(a)	to maintain order, discipline and efficiency;
(b)	to hire, discharge, transfer, upgrade, promote, demote or discipline associates and to increase and decrease the work force, provided that if there is a claim by an associate who has acquired seniority that he/she has been disciplined or discharged without reasonable cause, it may be made the subject of a grievance and dealt with as provided in this Agreement;
3.02
3.03
3.04
4.01
cont'd
5 -
(c)	to determine the qualifications of each associate;
(d)	to operate and manage its business in all respects
and without limiting the generality of the foregoing, to determine:
-	the number and location of plants
-	the products to be manufactured
-	the methods of manufacturing and the production schedules to be used
-	the type and location of machines and tools to be used
-	the engineering and design of its products
-	the control of material and parts to be incorporated into the product.
(e)	The company will be solely responsible for the
proper implementation of work rules and rates of pay.
The employer agrees that these functions will be exercised in a manner not inconsistent with the terms of this Agreement.
There shall be no lock-out, strike, slow down or stoppage of work during the term of this Agreement.
In the event that any of the provisions of this Collective Agreement are found to be in conflict with any valid and applicable Federal or Provincial Law now existing, or hereinafter enacted, it is agreed that such law shall supersede the conflicting provisions without in any way affecting the remainder of the Collective Agreement.
ARTICLE 4 HOURS OF WORK
(1)	With the exception of operations which are scheduled on a 5 day, 40 hour work week Monday to Friday inclusive, the regular weekly schedule for the factory is a 7 day or 6 2/3 day operation, and each associate is assigned regular shift hours according to his/her type of work. However this shall not be taken as a guarantee of hours of work per day or days of work per week.
4.01 cont'd
- 6 -
The regular weekly schedule is an average of forty (40) hours (based on a thirty two (32) hour and forty-eight (48) hour rotation) within a period from 8:00 a.m. Sunday to 8:00 a.m. Sunday. (In any week in which a designated holiday occurs, the weekly hours may vary).
(2)	The employer may schedule work in excess of regular plant hours in order to maintain the factory and equipment, or to keep the production processes in balance, or to avoid the temporary hiring and laying off of associates.
(3)	Overtime shall be distributed in an equal and impartial manner among the qualified associates of the department in which overtime work becomes necessary. The associates are expected to take their rightful share of this distribution.
(4)	(a) 6 2/3 day work schedule is as follows:
D -	Day Shift	8:00	A.M.	to	8:00	P.M.
N -	Night Shift	8:00	P.M.	to	8:00	A.M.
a -	Afternoon shift 4:00	P.M.	to	12:00 P.M.
n -	Night shift 12:00	P.M.	to	8:00	A.M.
CREW PREMIUMS #1 - $0.90/HR WORKED #2 - $0.90/HR WORKED #3 - $0.90/HR WORKED #4 - $0.90/HR WORKED Associate works-off:
OVERTIME PROVISION 1ST SCH. DAY OFF:	TIME AND ONE HALF
2ND SCH. DAY OFF:	DOUBLE TIME
3RD SCH. DAY OFF:	TIME AND ONE HALF
2-2, 3-2, 2-3 rotation
SMTWTFS SMTWTFS SMTWTFS
S M T W T F S
CREW 1 CREW 2 CREW 3 CREW 4
NOTE:
n - - D D
a - - N N
D D----D D
N N----N N
a-----N N
n-----D D
N N-----N N
D D - - D D
-DD--DD a - - D D - - - NN--NN n - - N N - -
-NN--NN n - - N N - - - DD--DD a - - D D - -
Janitor/security work a revised 6 2/3 day work schedule working 8 hours on Fridays and 12 hours on Sundays.
(b) Eight (8) hour shifts - rotating or non-rotating -various starting times - either 8 hours with a 20 minute paid lunch, or 8.5 hours with a 30 minute unpaid lunch.
Established shifts may be changed by mutual agreement.
- 7
4.02
4.03
4.04
4.05
4.06
4.07
"Overtime work" means all time worked in excess of an associate's regularly scheduled eight (8) hour or twelve (12) hour shift in a twenty-four (24) hour period from the time he/she is regularly scheduled to start work; and also means all time worked from 8:00 A.M. Saturday to 8:00 A.M. Monday for those on an eight (8) hour shift, forty (40) hour work week.
This overtime provision for weekend work does not apply to janitor/security whose regular weekly schedule requires them to work on Saturday and/or Sunday. For such associates, their regular scheduled days off will be considered as overtime work.
Overtime work does not include:
(a)	Time worked by associates substituting for one another at their own request.
(b)	A change of an associate's working hours at his/her own request.
(c)	Regular weekly shift change.
(d)	The time spent on associate committee work or
similar activity.
An associate will be advised of any change that is made on his/her time sheet before the end of the pay period.
The employer will provide adequate relief when necessary.
The employer shall not reduce the regular working time of an associate because he/she has done overtime work, unless the associate consents to such reduction.
An associate will not construe overtime worked as a 'reason to take a "regularly scheduled day" off.
It is the policy of the Company not to schedule an associate to work for more than twelve (12) consecutive hours at one time. However, it is recognized that in emergency situations or when other qualified associates are not available, it may be necessary to request an associate or associates to work beyond twelve (12) consecutive hours. It is the Company's intention to keep such occurrences to an absolute minimum.
When an associate has reason to be absent on his/her regularly scheduled shift, advance notice must be given no later than two (2) hours before the start of that shift, except in emergency situations.
8
4.08
4.09
5.01
5.02
5.03
An associate, who has not been relieved by the subsequent shift will remain on the job until alternate arrangements can be made, but limited to a two (2) hour period.
Associates will be required to work the full shift, less approved breaks and lunch periods and it is understood that all associates will apply themselves to their work with a satisfactory effort for the entire shift.
There will be no late starts or early quits or company paid washup times.
It is then understood that all operations will function on a continuous basis, with associates working until the next shift takes over.
ARTTCLE 5
RATES OF PAY
The rates of pay shall be the ones in effect at the date hereof, as set out in Appendix A and is attached hereto, and forms part of this Agreement.
These rates will be revised in accordance with the Memorandum of Agreement signed between the employer and the union on February 14, 1993.
The rates as so revised shall remain in effect for the balance of the term of this Collective Agreement.
Tnterim increases will be calculated and applied in accordance with the formula as set out in Appendix B and is attached hereto, and forms part of this Agreement.
Tn the event of a change to established methods, specifications, established working conditions and job content, which would result in a change in production, the operations affected will be re-evaluated for labour balance, manning levels, and any corresponding changes to the job rate.
(a)	The minimum hiring in rate of pay, is $11.50 per hour, effective February 13th 1993. This rate will remain unchanged during the term of this agreement, but subject to changes in accordance with future memorandum of agreement between employer and union.
(b)	Job transfer rates:	An associate who is transferred
to another operation, either through displacementor
9
5.03 (
5.04
5.05
5.06
) cont'd
through a transfer request, shall be paid the rate of the job to which he/she has transferred provided he/she can qualify or his/her job rate until such time as he/she can qualify on the new operation, except where the rate of the new operation is less than his/her current rate, in such case he/she will be paid the rate of the new operation.
(1)	If the employer temporarily assigns an associate,
for the benefit of the employer, to another operation, while there is work available on the associate’s regular operation, he/she will be paid their existing job rate, or the rate of the temporary job, whichever is greater, provided he/she has made a satisfactory effort.
(2)	When an associate is assigned to instruct other
associates or is assigned to perform experimental work under the guidance of the Development Department he/she shall be paid his/her job rate.
Time lost on a shift by an associate, owing to breakdown, stock shortage, defective stock or any other reason beyond the associate’s but within the employer’s control, shall be paid for at the rate of the job. However, in the case of a breakdown beyond the control of both the employer and the associate, the associate shall be paid the job rate only for the period he/she is required by the employer to remain on the job.
All overtime work shall be paid at the rate of time-and-one-half except during the period Saturday Midnight to Sunday Midnight or from 11:00 p.m. Saturday to 11:00 p.m. Sunday for those associates whose regular shift starts at 11:00 p .m., when double time will be paid.
For all 6 2/3 associates required to work between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m. on Sunday double time will be paid. This provision will exclude janitor/ security.
In the case of janitor/security who are scheduled on a seven (7) day basis, time and one half will be paid for hours worked on their first and third scheduled days off. Double time will be paid for hours worked on their second, fourth and fifth scheduled days off. Overtime premium shall not be paid twice for the same hours worked.
5.07
5.08
5.09
5.10
5.11
5.12
- 10 -
An associate not previously scheduled to work who is called to work and consequently works in an emergency on Sunday or on a holiday, or at any time between one (1) hour after he/she has left work and two (2) hours before his/her next scheduled shift, shall receive either four (4) hours at his/her regular rate of pay, or regular rate of pay plus premium pay applicable for actual time worked, whichever is the greater.
When an associate has not been notified of a change in his/her starting time and he/she comes to work at his/her customary time, he/she shall be paid his/her job rate for four (4) hours of his/her regular shift, provided that the associate has advised the employer of his/her last and correct address. This shall apply only when conditions are within the employer's control. Such associates may be offered other suitable work, and if he/she refuses to accept such work he/she shall forfeit such pay.
When an associate reports for work on his/her scheduled shift and is sent home by reason of some breakdown in the factory, he/she shall be paid his/her job rate for four (4) hours of his/her regular shift, provided that the conditions which caused the breakdown were within the employer's control. Such associate may be offered other suitable work, and if he/she refuses to accept such work he/she shall forfeit such pay.
In the case of an emergency where it is necessary for the employer to send an associate home before the conclusion of his/her regular shift in order to have him/her report for work on a later shift, the associate will be given the privilege of completing up to a maximum of four (4) hours of work on his/her regular shift before going home. Payment will be made for such work at the regular straight time rate for hours worked on his/her regular shift. All hours worked on his/her later shift will be paid at the rate of time-and-one-half. In all such cases the associate affected must accept and complete the work assignment given to him/her by the employer in order to qualify for a benefit under this subsection.
An associate who is injured in the factory and is treated in the factory or is sent to an outside hospital shall be paid at his/her job rate for time lost on his/her shift.
An associate will be paid his/her job rate for time lost on his/her operation if he/she is called away from same by his/her employer. This does not apply, however, in
5.12
5.13
5.14
5.15
5.16
cont'd
11
cases where disciplinary action is warranted. If it is necessary to bring someone in on their day off to investigate the incident, they will be paid their job rate at straight time for the duration of the meeting.
Each member of an associate committee who is present at special meetings called by the employer, and with the employer present at the regular monthly meeting with the employer, or at 3rd and 4th step grievance meetings with the employer shall be paid his/her job rate for the period until the time at which the meeting is adjourned. Each member of the Bargaining Committee shall also be paid at his/her job rate for time spent, to a minimum of eight (8) hours in any one (1) day for days in which meetings are scheduled with the employer during negotiations for renewal of agreements until such time as application is made for conciliation services.
The designated steward or local union official representative will be paid at his/her job rate for time spent making time studies authorized by the employer or calculations therefrom or to a maximum of two (2) working days while examining new or revised disputed rates in the time study department or while undergoing training conducted by the employer or authorized by the employer. For the purpose of this provision, consent for time off does not necessarily constitute authorization for payment.
If settlement of the grievance results in an adjustment in the contested job rate, it shall be made retroactive to the effective date of the rate, but not to exceed 180 days on the operation.
Associates shall be granted shift premium payments as follows:
(a)	$.045 per hour for all hours worked between 8:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m.
Any associate who is required to serve on a jury or as a witness subpoenaed by the crown shall be paid the difference between the amount paid for such service and his/her job rate for the time lost from his/her regularly scheduled work shift by reason of such service, subject to the following provisions:
(a)	Associates must notify their area manager within twenty four (24) hours after receipt of notice of
5.16 (
5.17
) cont'd
12
selection for jury duty or subpoenaed as a crown witness.
(b)	Any associate called for jury duty or who is
subpoenaed as a crown witness and who is temporarily excused from attendance at court must report for work if a reasonable period of time remains to be worked in his/her shift.
(c)	Associates selected for jury duty or who are subpoenaed as a crown witness who are on other than first shift shall be assigned to the first shift for those days they are required to serve. Anyone called for jury duty or subpoenaed as a crown witness on a Monday and is scheduled to work the preceding Sunday, will be given the Sunday off without pay and will be required to work the Monday in lieu of Sunday for eight (8) hours at straight time less the time spent at court. (as per (b) above)
(d)	In order to be eligible for such payment, the
associate must furnish a written statement from the appropriate public official showing the date and time served and the amount of pay received.
(e)	Should an associate’s scheduledvacation be affected due to his/her selection for jury duty or his/her being subpoenaed as a crown witness, the area manager may reschedule said associate’s vacation, if he/she so requests in the current year provided the company is willing to do so.
An associate on the active payroll of the company who is excused by the employer solely because of the death and funeral of a parent, son, daughter, husband, wife, brother, sister, grandparent, common-law spouse (provided he/she is covered under the Goodyear benefit system) and common-law children (provided they are covered under the Goodyear benefit system), will be compensated at his/her job rate upon presentation of proof of death for the time lost by him/her from his/her regular working schedule by reason of such absence for a total of three (3) eight (8) hour shifts in the case of those associates on a 5 day, 40 hour schedule, and two (2) twelve (12) hour shifts for those associates on a 6 2/3 schedule, commencing with the day of the death for each death and funeral.
5.17 cont'd
13
In the case of an associate excused by the employer solely because of the death and funeral of a parent-inlaw, grandchild, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, brother-inlaw, sister-in-law, spouse’s brother-in-law, spouse’s sister-in-law, spouse’s grandparent or a dependent who lives in the household of the associate, will be compensated, upon presentation of proof of death, at his/her job rate, for time lost by him/her from his/her regular working schedule by reason of such absence, up to a maximum of three (3) 8 hour shifts in the case of those associates on a 5 day, 40 hour schedule, and up to a maximum of two (2) 12 hour shifts for those associates on a 6 2/3 day schedule, commencing with the day of the death for each death and funeral. Time off will not be paid beyond the date of the funeral unless prior arrangements are made with the department manager.
This provision to apply when it is necessary for the associate to make funeral arrangements, and/or attend the funeral.
For the purpose of this section, a step-parent or fosterparent shall be considered as a parent and a step-son or step-daughter or foster-son or foster-daughter shall be considered as a son or daughter only where the stepparent or foster-parent has taken the place of the natural parent in relation to such child and is not in receipt of any financial aid for the support of such child.
5.18	No person on the payroll of the Company outside of the bargaining unit shall perform any part of the work normally performed by members of the bargaining unit. However, this provision will not prohibit instructions, the training of new associates, the handling of emergency situations or training of the Production Squadron training group.
5.19	Boxed earnings and shift differential will be added separately.
ARTICLE 6 SENIORITY
6.01	Seniority shall be calculated as from the date of the
associate’s first working day for the employer.
Associates hired with identical service dates will use relative age as the factor for determining seniority.
6.01 cont'd
14 -
6.02
The older associate will be deemed to have the most
factory seniority.
(1)	An associate shall lose his/her seniority when he/she resigns or is discharged.
(2)	A laid off associate shall lose his/her seniority whenever he/she fails to:
(a)	Inform the employer of the address at which he/she can be reached when required to report to work. Address changes may be forwarded by mail, addressed to the Personnel Department, and will be acknowledged in writing;
(b)	Notify the employer of his/her intention to return to work within one (1) working day after having been notified to do so by messenger or within three (3) working days after a notice to do so has been sent by registered mail or telegram, in either case to his/her last address on the records of the employer;
(c)	Report for work within seven (7) days after he/she has stated his/her intention to return to work.
In each of such cases, his/her employment and his/her seniority shall terminate at once without notice or other act on the part of the employer; provided that the provisions of subsections (b) or (c) do not apply if the associate furnishes a satisfactory reason to the employer within thirty (30) days of his/her failure. This exception may be made only once in favour of any one associate.
(3)	An associate with seniority who is laid off with less than five (5) years of factory seniority and is not recalled to work by the employer during the following two (2) year period shall thereupon lose his/her seniority. An associate who is laid off with five (5) years or more of factory seniority and is not recalled to work by the employer during the following five (5) year period shall thereupon lose his/her seniority.
(4)	(a) In any one layoff period, a former associate
with seniority in layoff status who held less
6.02 4
6.03
15
than five (5) years of seniority at time of layoff,	shall be entitled to accumulate
seniority held at time of layoff but in no event shall such accumulation of seniority exceed one (1) year.
In any one layoff period, a former associate with seniority in layoff status, who held five
(5)	years or more of seniority at time of layoff,	shall be entitled to accumulate
seniority and service to a maximum of two (2) years.
The accumulation of seniority and service as provided under this subsection will be credited to an associate upon his/her return to work.
(1)	An associate absent from work because of bodily injuries caused by accident or sickness and qualified to receive weekly indemnity benefits under the terms of the Health and Life Insurance Agreement in effect from time to time between the employer and the union, shall be entitled to accumulate seniority and service during the period of his/her absence on the following basis:
a) cont'd
(b)
(«=)
(a)	An associate who has less than five (5) years of continuous service with the employer will be entitled to accumulate seniority and service for a maximum period of one (1) year, but his/her accumulated seniority and service shall not exceed his/her service with the employer as of the day on which he/she last worked prior to his/her illness.
(b)	An associate who has five (5) or more years of continuous service with the employer, will be entitled to accumulate seniority and service for a maximum period of two (2) years.
(c)	An associate who is absent from work because of bodily injury caused by accident or sickness and, under the advice of a doctor and at the discretion of the employer, returns to work on an operation other than his/her own, shall be allowed to accumulate his/her regular crew seniority while on such operation for the length of time of such assignment, to a maximum period of three (3) months, or for a period
6.03 l(
6.04
c) cont'd
16 -
equal to the number of calendar days he/she was absent because of such accident or sickness whichever is greater. His/her accumulated crew seniority shall not exceed his/her factory seniority.
(2)	The provisions of subsection (1) shall in no way limit the accumulation of seniority and service by an associate who is receiving Workers’ Compensation Benefits.
(3)	An associate who is absent from work because of
bodily injury caused by accident or sickness and who has accumulated seniority and service in accordance with the provisions of Section 6.03 shall be entitled to retain such accumulated service and seniority together with his/her prior credited service and seniority so long as he/she remains disabled because of injury and is not able to return to work or to accept other employment. If he/she should accept other employment during such absence he/she shall be deemed to have resigned.
(1)	An associate who is selected as a delegate to a convention of the United Rubber, Cork, Linoleum and Plastic Workers of America, the Canadian Labour Congress, the Alberta Federation of Labour, or specific union duties or municipal elective duties, may apply to his/her foreman for time off to attend such duties and will be granted such time as may be necessary for this purpose provided that such leave will not interfere with the efficient operation of the factory. Under this provision, not more than one (1) associate from each division may be absent at the same time. The Company will not limit the number of members of the Bargaining Committee who are entitled to attend grievance meetings beyond Step II.
(2)	After normal placement under Section 6.09 the
President, Vice President, Secretary or Treasurer, in order of priority, and Executive Board members, in order of factory seniority, will not be laid off factory employment while there is work to be performed in the plant. In such event he/she shall displace the associate with the least seniority in the factory. The displaced associate will be laid off.
6.04
6.05
cont'd
17 -
(3)	An associate who is elected or selected for full time duty as an officer for, or representative of, the United Rubber, Cork, Linoleum and Plastic Workers of America or to the executive staff of the Canadian Labour Congress or to the Alberta Federation of Labour, which assignment will take him/her away from his/her employment with the employer, may apply in writing for leave of absence; such leave of absence shall be requested and granted yearly and shall cancel itself automatically upon termination of this Collective Agreement. For two
(2)	years following the date the leave of absence is granted the associate will accumulate seniority and service for employment reinstatement and thereafter will retain seniority for as long as his/her leave of absence continues in force. Following the termination of his/her leave of absence and his/her immediate return to work for the employer, he/she shall be reinstated to all privileges of employment and he/she shall be offered the same work in the department which he/she had left or similar work at the then current rate of pay for such work.
For pension purposes only, such associates will be credited with the seniority and service which he/she had attained up to the time his/her leave of absence had been granted and will also be entitled to accumulated seniority and service, but his/her accumulated seniority and service, shall not exceed his/her service with the employer as of the day on which he/she last worked prior to his/her leave of absence. Such associate will not have to return to active employment with the employer in order to qualify for a pension or severance award if otherwise eligible for the same. The Pension Plan in effect at the date of the associate's application for retirement shall be the Pension Plan applicable to him/her.
Application of Section 6.04 (3) is conditional upon the Pension Plan receiving all necessary approvals from relevant government authorities.
The probationer shall be a temporary associate for all the time of his/her probationary period. His/her employment may be terminated at any time without reference to seniority and in no event shall the employer have an obligation to rehire him/her or offer him/her work. It is understood, however, that he/she has all
6.05 cont'd
18
other applicable rights as contained under this Agreement. In the event of lay-offs, positions held by probationers will be included in the lay-off procedure.
6.06	No associate with seniority shall be laid off in a department of the factory before all probationers in the factory are laid off.
6.07	Notwithstanding any provisions that may be contained in this Article to the contrary, no associate shall be assigned or recalled to any classified operation for which he/she is not then qualified, except where the provisions set forth in Section 6.09 are applicable. The employer may assign or transfer any associate to an operation for a period in which to qualify.
SENIORITY PROVISIONS - ENGINEERING DIVISION
The associates of the engineering division are not includedin the classified and unclassified job seniority system as outlined in Sections 6.09 and 6.11 of this article. These associates shall be subject to layoff and recall only within their own division based on qualifications, and their seniority rights shall be determined only in relation to each other in that division under a department seniority system.
LAYOFFS from a particular department shall be made according to department seniority, provided that if the associate whose work has been terminated has had previous satisfactory experience of three (3) months of actual work on another operation in the same department, he/she may displace the associate on that operation with less department seniority than himself/herself; any associate so displaced and who has had previous satisfactory experience of three (3) months of actual work on another operation in the same department shall have the same privilege as the associate above, whose work has been terminated, until the layoff procedure reaches the associate with the least department seniority in the department; said associate with the least department seniority in the department shall be laid off from factory employment.
RECALLS to a department will be made in the reverse order of layoff provided the associate recalled is qualified to fill the vacancy.
6.08 (1)
(2)
6.08 cont'd
19
(4)	An associate of the engineering division may request a
transfer from the engineering division to a production department provided he/she is qualified, and an associate of the production department may request a transfer to the engineering division provided he/she is qualified and is considered by the company to be the best candidate for the job.
(5)	If associates of the engineering division are being laid off and there are vacancies in the production departments for which they can qualify they may be offered such jobs until such time as their regular jobs are again available.
(6)	Associates in the engineering division who are about to be laid off shall be given the opportunity to displace associates in production in accordance with Section 6.09
(1)	(c) and (d) using their factory seniority.
LAYOFFS - PRODUCTION DEPARTMENTS
6.09	When it becomes necessary to layoff or surplus an
associate, the associate with the least seniority on either the classified or unclassified jobs affected will be considered the surplus associate, and he/she will have the right to displace other associates with less seniority as follows:
(1)	Associates on Classified Jobs
The surplus associate from a classified job shall:
(a)	Displace the associate with the least seniority on
any other classified job in the department on which he/she has classified job seniority provided his/her factory seniority is sufficient to displace such associate.
(b)	Displace the associate with the least seniority on any unclassified job in the department on which he/she is qualified, provided his/her factory seniority is sufficient to do so, and failing that, shall displace the associate with the least seniority in the unclassified job group in the department, providing his/her factory seniority is sufficient to displace such associate.
(c)	Displace the associate with the least seniority in
the classified group in the factory on which he/she
6.09 1(c) cont'd
- 20
has classified job seniority, providing his/her factory seniority is sufficient to displace such associate.
(d)	Displace the associate with the least seniority in the unclassified group in the factory provided that his/her factory seniority is sufficient to displace such associate.
(2)	Associates on Unclassified Jobs
The surplus associate from an unclassified job shall:
(a)	Displace an associate with the least seniority in a classified job on which he/she has classified job seniority providing his/her factory seniority is sufficient to displace such .associate.
(b)	Displace an associate with the least seniority on any other unclassified job in the department on which he/she is qualified, providing that his/her factory seniority is sufficient to do so, and failing that, shall displace the associate with the least seniority in the unclassified job group in the department providing his/her factory seniority is sufficient to displace such associate.
(c)	Displace the associate with the least seniority in the unclassified jobs in the factory, if his/her factory seniority entitles him/her to displace such associate. The displaced associate in turn shall be laid off.
(3)	Because of the existing ratio of classified to unclassified, an associate with three (3) or more years of factory seniority who is about to be laid off from the factory may displace an associate with less factory seniority on a classified job on which he/she has not completed the classified job seniority requirement.
It is understood that Subsection 6.09 (3) will in no way limit the right of the employer to maintain a competent work force, and failing this, the associates will be laid off.
(4)	When it becomes necessary to reduce the number of associates in a crew, the associates with the least crew seniority on the job affected shall be considered surplus associates and shall displace others in the crew according to crew seniority as follows and in accordance with Appendix (c).
6.09 4 cont'd
21
Regression within crews shall take place as follows:
(i)	A surplus associate from one group shall displace the associate with the least crew seniority in the group immediately below the group in which he/she was working, provided his/her crew seniority is sufficient to do so. The displaced associate shall have the same privilege in the group below his/hers; until those associates with the least crew seniority have become surplus in the crew.
(ii) No associate shall be surplused off a crew while there is an associate with less factory seniority remaining. In such event, the associate with the least factory seniority shall be surplused from the crew, regardless of his/her crew position, and will take his/her place in the factory in accordance with Section 6.09. The crew will then progress according to crew seniority to fill said vacated position, and the associate with the greatest factory seniority, initially surplused, will fill the vacancy in the bottom position.
6.10	An associate to be laid off for an indefinite period
shall be given not less than five (5) working days notice of the effective date of layoff and such associate will be granted pay at his job rate for such time during the five (5) day period that work is not available.
The associate shall give one (1) week's notice of the effective date of his resignation, if possible.
REINSTATEMENT AND RECALL - PRODUCTION DEPARTMENTS
6.11	(1) In the event of an increase in production resulting in the recall of former associates, an associate who was placed on other work in the factory from a classified job shall be reinstated on the former classified job on which he/she worked immediately prior to the date of placement; in order of factory seniority except that if the said associate has worked for six (6) consecutive months on his/her new job he/she may retain his/her new job.
(2)	An associate who was placed on other work in the factory from an unclassified job shall not be reinstated to his/her former unclassified job unless he/she requests it as a transfer as outlined under Section 6.13.
6.11
6.12
- 22 -
cont'd
(3)	After all associates have been reinstated or transferred according to the provisions of Subsection 6.11 (1), the balance of the associates in a layoff status shall be recalled in order of classified job seniority, to fill vacancies in the case of classified jobs and in order of factory seniority to fill vacancies in the case of unclassified jobs. In each case consideration will be given to the physical fitness of the individual for the job, to ensure the safety of himself/herself and others, and a competent working force will be maintained at all times.
(4)	In the event of a vacancy remaining in a classified group after the procedure in paragraph three (3) above has been observed, the associate with the longest factory seniority in the unclassified group in layoff status may be recalled to fill the vacancy if he/she can qualify.
Associates who have been transferred to positions outside the bargaining unit and who had at least one (1) year of seniority in the bargaining unit prior to transfer, shall be granted the factory seniority held at the time of transfer out of the bargaining unit upon being transferred back into the bargaining unit for the purpose of finding their rightful place in the factory, provided such service outside the bargaining unit has been accumulated in the Medicine Hat Plant. After the expiration of sixteen (16) months after transferring back to the bargaining unit, he/she shall be granted factory seniority equivalent to their continuous service with the employer.
Such associate will take his/her place in the factory in the following manner:
(1)	He/she may displace the associate with the least factory seniority on an unclassified job in his/her previous department, provided his/her factory seniority at the time of his/her transfer outside the bargaining unit so entitles him/her.
(2)	He/she may displace the associate with the least factory seniority on an unclassified job in the factory provided his/her factory seniority at the time of transfer outside the bargaining unit so entitles him/her.
(3)	An associate who has returned to the bargaining unit under this section will be permitted to exercise his/her bumping rights only in accordance with Subsection 6.12 (1) or (2) until the expiration of nine (9) months from the date he/she first returns to the bargaining unit.
23
6.13 (1) An associate who wishes to transfer from one operation to another shall lodge a written request "Transfer on File" with the Personnel Department, which shall keep all such requests on file.
(2)	"Transfer on File" requests will be valid for a six (6) month period only, unless renewed by the associate making the request. At the end of the six (6) month period the Personnel Department will return the transfer form to the associate for renewal. No associate shall be allowed to have in force more than one (1) "Transfer on File" at one time. All "Transfer on File" requests must state the department (where applicable) or job classification to which the associate wishes to be transferred. Each "Transfer on File" will automatically cancel any previous "Transfer on File" request made by the same associate.
(3)	When the first vacancy occurs, it will be posted seventy-two (72) hours (exclusive of Saturday, Sunday or holidays) before being filled. The associate with the longest factory seniority, on the list of applicants to transfer who can qualify, shall be given the first opportunity to transfer, except where an associate in a laid off status from that operation has more seniority than the applicant for transfer. (See 6.08 (4) for transfers into the engineering division). The second vacancy created will be posted and filled as outlined in this subsection.
(4)	The third and fourth vacancies created will be filled using the "Transfer on File" system as described in Article 6.13 (1) and (2). The associate with the longest factory seniority who had filled out a "Transfer of File" request for that department (where applicable) or job classification, prior to the filling of the second vacancy, and who can qualify, shall be given the first opportunity to transfer, except where an associate in a laid off status from that operation, has more seniority than the applicant for transfer.
(5)	The fifth vacancy created will be filled with a new hire.
(6)	If the associate fails to qualify on the new operation after the usual learning period, he/she may return to his/her previous department, providing a vacancy exists. If there is no vacancy in his/her previous department he/she may displace the associate with the least factory seniority in the unclassified job group in the department provided his/her factory seniority is sufficient to displace such associate. Failing that, he/she shall
24
displace the associate with the least factory seniority in the unclassified job group in the factory provided his/her factory seniority is sufficient to displace such associate.
(7)	When an associate is transferred, he/she shall be paid in accordance with the wage rate provided for in Section 5.03, and he/she shall accept the prevailing wage rate scale of the operation to which he/she has transferred. The rate change will not be made until the associate has actually started training or working on the awarded job. An associate's experience and effort may warrant a higher rate as determined by the Company.
(8)	An associate who has been transferred under the provisions of Section 6.13 will not be permitted to file another application for transfer until expiration of sixteen (16) months from the date the job is awarded.
All new associates will not be permitted to file for a transfer until the expiration of eighteen (18) months from the date they are awarded their first permanent position.
(9)	Whenever vacancies occur in a crew or when new crews are formed the crew or crews shall progress as follows:
The associate with the longest crew seniority in the group below that in which the vacancy occurs, will advance to the vacancy provided he/she wishes to do so and can qualify.
The associate with the longest crew seniority in the next lowest group will advance to the position vacated through the progression above, and so on until the bottom position on the crew becomes vacant.
(a)
(b)
(c)	This position shall be filled through the transfer system.
6.14	An associate shall have the right to examine his/her
seniority records at any time in the Personnel Department. A seniority list shall be posted in each department showing the names of all the associates in said department. This list will be revised by the employer at regular intervals of approximately six (6) months, and each revision will be posted in the
6.14
6.15
6.16
6.17
6.18
6.19
cont'd
25
department concerned as soon as possible thereafter. The union shall be given a copy of the seniority list after each such revision.
For the purpose of this Article, a list of all departments of the factory and classified and unclassified jobs shall be given by the employer to the union once per year.
The union acknowledges that in the administration of Article 6 it will be necessary for the employer to maintain at all times a competent and trained working force.
An associate who suffers serious injury or impairment from Goodyear employment or war service which results in permanent disability, or an associate with five (5) or more years of continuous service who is unable to continue working on his/her own operation but is capable of handling lighter work, may be assigned to and/or retained at work at the discretion of the employer, notwithstanding the provisions of this Article.
An associate who wishes a leave of absence for personal reasons shall make written application to the Personnel Department, setting out the reason for his/her request. If granted, such leave shall be in writing and a copy will be given to the union secretary. Leave of absence will not be granted for self-employment or for employment elsewhere. The associate must return to work on the date indicated in the letter of authorization and he/she will be placed on his/her previous job provided that he/she is able to perform the work. The associate will be credited with service and seniority during the period while he/she is on leave of absence up to a maximum of two (2) months. Welfare benefits, exclusive of weekly indemnity, will be continued during the period of leave of absence up to a maximum of two (2) months.
If any manufacturing or operating method is permanently eliminated or modernized, causing the layoff of associates, the associates so affected at the time will be transferred according to Article 6.09.
(
- 26 -
ARTICLE 7
DESIGNATED HOLIDAYS
7.01	A holiday will be observed for a twenty-four (24) hour period from 8:00 a.m. on the day of the holiday to 8:00 a.m. the day following the holiday or other mutually agreed to starting times. When a holiday occurs it may be necessary for some associates to work after 8:00 a.m. to complete work in progress or to close down properly for the holiday. In departments where a seven (7) day schedule is required and/or in maintenance departments, the minimum number of associates necessary to keep the factory in operating condition shall work on the holiday. From time to time emergencies may arise which will make it necessary for certain associates to work on a holiday in order that other associates will not suffer loss of time.
7.02	(a) Associates who qualify will be paid an amount equal to
one (1) standard shift but not exceeding eight (8) hours for each of the following designated holidays:
New Year's Day Good Friday Victoria Day Canada Day Labour Day Thanksgiving Day Christmas Day Civic Holiday Remembrance Day Family Day
and two (2) other holidays which will be mutually agreed upon by the company and the union before Aril 1st of the year in which the holidays occur.
If an additional statutory holiday is proclaimed by either level of Government, such holiday would take the place of one of the floaters.
(b)	If a designated holiday falls on a Saturday or Sunday it shall be observed on the preceding Friday or the following Monday, or another date mutually agreed to by the Company and the Union.
(c)	In any year in which the Civic Holiday falls during a
plant vacation shutdown period, the Monday following i the vacation shutdown period will be observed as Civic Holiday, or another date mutually agreed to by the Company and the Union.
7.03
7.04
7.05
7.06
- 27 -
In order to qualify, an associate must be on the payroll and must have worked the last scheduled shift before the holiday and the first scheduled shift after the holiday. In a case where there are circumstances beyond the associate's control and the associate could have worked if the factory had operated, payment for a holiday may be made upon recommendation of the associate's Area Manager and approved by the Personnel Manager and the Plant Manager. Subject to the above, an associate who is absent because of sickness or accident evidenced by a doctor's certificate and limited to a thirty (30) day period exclusive of Saturday and Sunday, which period includes such designated holiday, shall receive holiday pay. There shall be deducted from such pay any payments which the associate received as the result of such illness.
Payment for designated holidays shall be calculated as follows:
All associates shall be paid eight (8) hours multiplied by their job rates.
An associate who is required to work on a designated holiday, shall be paid double time for time worked in addition to his/her holiday pay.
An associate shall receive holiday pay for a holiday that occurs either during his/her regular vacation or the day before or the day after his/her regular vacation period provided that the said associate actually works on his/her last regularly scheduled shift prior to and on his/her first regularly scheduled shift following his/her vacation period and such holiday.
In a case where an associate is absent on his/her regular scheduled shift before or his/her first regular scheduled shift after such holiday and vacation and such absence is excused, payment for the holiday may be made upon a recommendation as outlined in Section 7.03.
Subject to the above, an associate who is absent because of sickness or accident evidenced by a doctor's certificate and limited to a thirty (30) day period exclusive of Saturday and Sunday, which period includes such designated holiday, shall receive holiday pay for a holiday that occurs either during his/her regular vacation or on the day before or the day after his/her regular vacation period. There shall be deducted from such pay any payments which the associate receives as the result of such illness.
28 -
7.07	An associate who is laid off within a period of five (5)
working days immediately preceding a holiday and who actually performed his/her assigned work on the day of layoff shall be entitled to receive holiday pay for such holiday.
ARTICLE 8
VACATIONS
8.01	For the purpose of computing vacation and vacation pay, the vacation year will be the calendar year.
For vacation purposes, the vacation week is deemed to begin as of 8:00 a.m. Sunday.
8.02	(1) An associate with less than one (1) year of continuous
service as of December 31 of the previous calendar year shall be granted one (1) day of vacation for each complete month worked during the previous vacation year.
(2)	An associate with one (1) year but less than five (5) years of continuous service as of December 31 of the previous year shall be granted two (2) weeks of vacation.
(3)	An associate with five (5) years or more but less than twelve (12) years of continuous service as of December 31 of the previous year shall be granted three (3) weeks of vacation.
(4)	An associate with twelve (12) years or more but less than twenty (20) years of continuous service as of December 31 of the previous year shall be granted four (4) weeks of vacation.
(5)	An associate with twenty (20) years or more but less than twenty five (25) years of service as of December 31 of the previous year shall be granted five (5) weeks of vacation.
(6)	An associate with twenty five (25) years or more of continuous service as of December 31 of the previous year shall be granted six (6) weeks of vacation.
8.03	(1) An associate entitled to a vacation as outlined in Subsection 8.02 (1) and (2) will receive vacation pay equal to four (4) percent of the actual earnings received by him/her during the previous calendar year.
t
i
8.03 cont'd
29 -
(2)	An associate entitled to a vacation as outlined in Subsection 8.02 (3) will receive vacation pay equal to six (6) percent of the actual earnings received by him/her during the previous calendar year.
(3)	An associate entitled to a vacation as outlined in Subsection 8.02 (4) will receive vacation pay equal to eight (8) percent of the actual earnings received by him/her during the previous calendar year.
(4)	An associate entitled to a vacation as outlined in Subsection 8.02 (5) will receive pay equal to ten (10) percent of the actual earnings received by him/her during the previous calendar year.
(5)	An associate who completes five (5) years of continuous service on or before December 24 in the current year shall be granted in the same current year a third week of vacation on his/her completion of five (5) years of continuous service in addition to the two (2) weeks of vacation he/she has already been granted for his/her previous calendar year of service and will receive as vacation pay for that third week of vacation two (2) percent of his/her earnings in the previous calendar year.
An associate who completes five (5) years of continuous service after December 24 in the current year shall be granted vacation for the remaining days of the year with pay for his/her remaining regularly scheduled days of work.
(6)	An associate who	completes twelve (12)	years	of
continuous service	on or before December	24 in	the
current year shall be granted in the same current year a fourth week of vacation on his/her completion of twelve (12) years of continuous service in addition to the three (3) weeks of vacation he/she has already been granted for his/her previous calendar year of service and will receive as vacation pay for that fourth week of vacation two (2) percent of his/her earnings in the previous calendar year.
An associate who	completes twelve (12)	years	of
continuous service after December 24 in the current year shall be granted vacation for the remaining days of the year with pay for his/her remaining regularly scheduled days of work.
8.03 cont'd
- 30
(7)	An associate who	completes twenty (20)	years	of
continuous service on or before December 24 in the current year shall be granted in the same current year a fifth week of vacation on his/her completion of twenty (20) years of continuous service in addition to the four (4) weeks of vacation he/she has already been granted for his/her previous calendar year of service and will receive as vacation pay for that fifth week of vacation two (2) percent of his/her earnings in the previous calendar year.
An associate who	completes twenty (20)	years	of
continuous service after December 24 in the current year shall be granted vacation for the remaining days of the year with pay for his/her remaining regularly scheduled days of work.
(8)	An associate who completes twenty five (25) years of
continuous service	on or before December	24 in	the
current year shall be granted in the same current year a sixth week of vacation on his/her completion of twenty five (25) years of continuous service in addition to the five (5) weeks of vacation he/she has already been granted for his/her previous calendar year of service and will receive as vacation pay for that sixth week of vacation two (2) percent of his/her earnings in the previous calendar year.
An associate who completes twenty five (25) years of continuous service after December 24 in the current year shall be granted vacation for the remaining days of the year with pay for his/her remaining regularly scheduled days of work.
(9)	In computing the actual earnings for vacation pay, the
following items shall be included:	actual wages earned
(including bonuses and overtime payment), vacation pay for the previous year, Workers' Compensation payments for lost time, Alberta Health Care premiums which are paid by the employer on behalf of the associate, short work week benefits paid under the Supplemental Unemployment Benefit Plan and weekly indemnity payments paid under the Health and Life Insurance Agreement.
(10)	When an associate has been unable to work during a portion of the preceding calendar year owing to sickness or injury not covered by the Workers' Compensation Act, and for this reason only the vacation pay is less than the minimum mentioned below, the vacation pay shall be
8.03 (10) cont'd
31
increased to a minimum of $225.00 per week, provided that said associate must have worked during some portion of the preceding calendar year and have resumed his/her normal duties not less than one (1) month before vacation is granted.
(11)	An associate with seniority who leaves the employ of the employer for any reason or who dies during his/her employment, if he/she has had vacation or pay in lieu of vacation in the current year, shall be entitled to receive or in the case of death his/her estate shall be entitled to receive four (4) percent of his/her earnings in the current year if he/she has completed one (1) year or more but less than five (5) years of continuous service at the date he/she leaves the employ of the employer or dies, or six (6) percent of his/her earnings in the current year if he/she has completed five (5) years or more but less than twelve (12) years of continuous service at the date he/she leaves the employ of the employer or dies, or eight (8) percent of his/her earnings in the current year if he/she has completed twelve (12) years or more but less than twenty (20) years, of continuous service at the date he/she leaves the employ of the employer or dies, or ten (10) percent of his/her earnings in the current year if he/she has completed twenty (20) years or more of continuous service at the date he/she leaves the employ of the employer or dies.
(12)	An associate with seniority who leaves the employ of the employer for any reason or who dies during his/her employment, if he/she has not had his/her vacation or pay in lieu of vacation in the current year shall be entitled to receive or in the case of death his/her estate shall be entitled to receive such vacation pay in lieu of vacation plus the same applicable percentage of his/her current year's earnings calculated in accordance with the provisions of Subsection 8.03 (10) and based on his/her length of continuous service with the employer.
8.04	Vacations may be taken at any time during the calendar
year, at such time as may be most convenient to the employer, but every effort shall be made to schedule vacations at times suitable to the associate. However, the final right to allot vacations is reserved by the employer so that orderly operation of the plant is assured.
All associates will be given the opportunity, on a factory seniority basis within Divisions A, B, C,
8.04
8.05
9.01
9.02
9.03
32 -
cont'd
Engineering, Power House, and Warehouse, to schedule their vacation until the end of January of each year. If vacation dates are not selected by that time they will be taken on a first come first serve basis. All vacations must be scheduled by no later than April 1st of each year.
The Company will notify associates of the shutdown plans for the upcoming year before the end of January in each year. However, the Company reserves the right to alter those plans due to changes in requirements, and/or emergency situations.
(1)	An associate is not entitled, under any conditions, to more than six (6) weeks vacation with pay.
(2)	Vacations are not cumulative, and they cannot be deferred until the following year.
ARTICLE 9 UNTON SECURITY
Any associate, who is a member of the union in good standing on the effective date of this Agreement, shall maintain his/her membership in the union as a condition of his/her continued employment for the duration of this Collective Agreement to the extent of paying union dues, in accordance with the constitution of the U.R.C.L. & P.W.A. as determined by the local union and uniformly required of all members of the union as a condition of acquiring or retaining membership therein.
Any person hired on or after the effective day of this Agreement or transferred therein after such effective date shall make application for union membership and shall as a condition of his/her continued employment maintain his/her union membership on the same terms and to the same extent as provided in subsection 9.01.
All present associates and all new associates, including associates transferred into the bargaining unit shall have their membership dues deducted from their earnings, or from any benefits paid under the Supplemental Unemployment Benefits Plan, whichever, is applicable, by signing the dues authorization and deduction forms provided in Section 9.04.
9.04
9.05
9.06
- 33 -
The employer will deduct the authorized union dues and assessments from the first pay received in each month of each associate from whom the Payroll Department has received, or may receive during the life of this Agreement, a dues authorization and deduction form in the following form:
Date _____________________ 19 ____
"Effective as of this date, I hereby authorize Goodyear Canada Inc. to deduct from wages due me and the Trustee of the S.U.B. Fund to deduct from any benefits paid to me under the Supplemental Unemployment Benefits Plan, current monthly union dues and any unpaid regular monthly dues, initiation fee, rejoining fee (if any) and general assessments which are established by Local Union 628, and to be deducted in accordance with the Collective Agreement, the amount of which deductions shall have been notified by the union to the employer from time to time. Said dues to be remitted by the employer to the Treasurer of Local 628, U.R.C.L. & P.W.A.
This assignment and authorization shall be irrevocable in accordance with the provisions of Article 9 of the Collective Agreement between the union and the employer and I acknowledge that I understand the provisions of Article 9 thereof."
Signature of Member
Street Address ___________________________________________
Town____________________________ Telephone________________
Associate No. __________________ Dept. No. _______________
An authorization for the deduction of union dues shall be signed in triplicate by	the	associate	concerned. One	(1)
copy shall be given to	the	associate	who authorized	the
deduction, one (1) copy shall be given to a representative of the local union, and one (1) copy shall be retained by the Personnel Department of the employer.
The deduction shall be made from the first pay due to the associate in each calendar	month.	When remitting	the
union dues deducted to	the	Treasurer	of the local union
each month, the employer will furnish the following information:
9.06 cont'd
34
(a)	The name and associate number and the amount deducted from each associate.
(b)	The name and associate number of any associates from whom no deduction has been made, together with the reason if such associate has signed a deduction authorization card.
(c)	The name and associate number of any associates who has left the employ of the employer since the last report, if such associate has signed a deduction authorization card.
9.07	The assignments and authorizations once executed shall be irrevocable for the duration of this Collective Agreement or any renewal thereof, provided that if the termination of this Agreement or any renewal thereof is followed by the execution of a new Agreement, these assignments and authorizations shall be deemed to be automatically renewed for the duration of each new Agreement.
9.08	The Union shall indemnify and save the employer and/or the Trustee of the S.U.B. Fund harmless from any claims, suits, judgements, attachments and from any other form of liability as a result of the employer and/or the Trustee of the S.U.B. Fund making deductions in accordance with the foregoing authorizations and assignments, and the Union will make refunds directly to all associates from whom a wrongful deduction has been made.
ARTTCtF, 10
GRIEVANCE AND ARBITRATION PROCEDURE
10.01	It is the mutual desire of the parties hereto that complaints of associates shall be adjusted as quickly as possible, and any dispute or complaint between the associate and the employer shall be dealt with as provided hereunder.
10.02	It is agreed that any associate does not have a grievance until he/she or his/her steward has discussed the complaint with his/her supervisor.
10.03	If such complaint is not settled to the satisfaction of the associate concerned the associate shall state the complaint in writing, and when signed by him/her and presented to the steward of his/her department, such complaint shall be considered to be a grievance and subject to the following steps of the grievance procedure:
10.03 cont'd
35
Step 1
Step 2
Step 3
Step 4
Step 5
The grievance may be discussed by the steward and/or a union representative with the Production Manager of the division in which the grievance occurred. A decision will be rendered in writing by the Production Manager within a period of three (3) days if possible.
If no satisfactory solution is reached at Step 1 of this procedure, the grievance may be discussed by the steward and/or a union representative with the Production Manager and the Industrial Relations Manager of the employer within a period of not more than three (3) working days following a decision at Step 1 of this procedure. A decision will be furnished in writing by these parties within a period of three (3) days if possible.
If no satisfactory solution is reached at Step 2 of this procedure the grievance may be discussed by the Bargaining Committee of the union and representatives of the employer designated for this purpose within a period of not more than five (5) working days following a decision at Step 2 of this procedure. A decision will be furnished in writing by the Industrial Relations Manager to the President of the union not later than five (5) working days following the commencement of the discussion in Step 3 if possible.
If no satisfactory solution is reached at Step 3 of this procedure, the grievance may be discussed by the Bargaining Committee of the union and a representative of the International Union, and representatives of the employer designated for this purpose within a period of not more than five (5) working days after the receipt by the union of the decision in Step 3.
The Company undertakes to reply, in writing, to the local union within five (5) working days following a Step 4 grievance meeting as outlined in Section 10.03 of the Collective Labour Agreement.
The date of receipt of such letter will constitute the completion of discussion at the Step 4 meeting.
If a grievance has not been settled at Step 4, and if the grievance is one which concerns the application, administration, interpretation of alleged violation of the Agreement, it may be referred to a Board of Arbitration by either party. Notice in writing of such reference to a Board of Arbitration must be given to the other party within thirty five (35) working days of the
- 36 -
10.03	Step 5 cont'd
completion of discussion in Step 4. Failing such notice the grievance will be deemed to have been abandoned.
10.04	It is agreed that:
The aggrieved associates shall be at liberty, and may be required by either party, to appear in person at any step of the procedure set forth above.
10.05	Each party will, within three (3) days of the notice referred to in Step 5, nominate a person to represent it on the Board of Arbitration and notify the other party of the name of such person; the two (2) persons so nominated will forthwith appoint a third person to act as Chairman of the Board of Arbitration. If they are unable to agree upon a Chairman within forty eight (48) hours after receipt of notice of their appointment, they will jointly request the Minister of Labour of the Province of Alberta to appoint a Chairman. In an arbitration case involving rates, the Chairman shall be a competent Industrial Engineer.
10.06	Such Chairman together with the two (2) nominees mentioned above shall constitute the Board of Arbitration, and shall meet promptly to hear and consider the grievance with all reasonable dispatch. The decision of the majority of the Board made in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement, shall be final and binding on the employer, the union, and the associate or associates concerned.
10.07	Each of the parties will bear the expense of the Arbitrator nominated by it; the parties will jointly bear the expense of the Chairman of the Board.
10.08	The Board of Arbitration shall, wherever possible, endeavour to render its decision within thirty (30) days of the conclusion of the hearing of the dispute; provided that failure of the Board to render its decision within the time limit specified shall not deprive it of jurisdiction or vitiate any award that may be made.
10.09	The Board of Arbitration shall not have any power to alter or change any of the provisions of this Collective Agreement, or to substitute any new provision for any existing provision, or to give any decision inconsistent with the terms and provisions of this Collective Agreement.
37
10.10	(1) Any or all of the time limits set forth above may be
extended by mutual agreement and any such agreement will be put in writing.
(2)	Upon mutual agreement of the parties a single arbitrator may be substituted for the Board of Arbitration provided for in Article 10 and in case of such substitution all other applicable provisions of Article 10 will continue to apply so far as they are relevant.
10.11	Any dispute between the employer and the union as to the interpretation of this Collective Agreement and any allegation by either party that the other has violated any term of this Collective Agreement shall be deemed to be a grievance when notice in writing thereof has been delivered by the party considering itself aggrieved, to the other party. Such grievance shall be presented at Step 3 of the grievance and arbitration procedures as set forth in this Article.
DISCHARGE CASES
10.12
10.13
10.14
(1)	An associate with seniority who claims to have been discharged or suspended unjustly, may file a claim in writing with the Personnel Manager within five (5) working days of ceasing to work, stating that he/she has been unjustly discharged or suspended.
(2)	The employer will undertake to advise in writing, a union official within twenty four (24) hours, the name and department of an associate who is suspended or discharged.
All such cases will be handled at Step 3 of the Grievance Procedure within three (3) working days of the receipt of the claim from the associate who has been discharged or suspended. If no satisfactory solution is reached as a result of the application of Step 3 and 4 of the Grievance Procedure, the dispute shall be subject to arbitration in accordance with the provisions of Article 10.
If it is decided that the associate was unjustly discharged or suspended he/she shall be reinstated, and he/she shall be compensated at his/her regular rate of pay for time lost, subject to the provisions hereinafter provided.
10.15
10.16
10.17
11.01
- 38 -
The Board of Arbitration will have the right to increase or decrease the penalty if they feel the circumstances justify such action, and will have authority to determine the amount of pay, if any, the associate is to receive for the period of his/her discharge or suspension if he/she is subsequently reinstated.
In calculating the amount of pay the associate is to receive if reinstated, the Board of Arbitration shall deduct therefrom any monies earned by the associate from other employment and any Unemployment Insurance benefits received by the associate during the period of his/her suspension or discharge and retained by him/her.
(1)	An associate will be given a copy of any notation concerning his/her misconduct or inefficiency at the time it is placed in his/her personal record. A copy of every notation will be forwarded to the Secretary of the union by the Industrial Relations Manager of the employer.
(2)	Notations reporting offenses, exclusive of the violation of the no-strike provisions in the Agreement, not repeated within a one (1) year period will be disregarded in the administration of discipline.
(3)	Notations reporting offenses involving violation of the no-strike provisions in the Agreement not repeated within a three (3) year period will be disregarded in the administration of discipline.
(4)	An associate when called into the office for reprimands will, upon request, have the right to have a union steward with him/her at any time during the meeting.
ARTICLE 11 MISCELLANEOUS
The employer will provide reasonable protective devices and other equipment necessary to protect associates from injury and sickness. The union agrees to co-operate with the employer in the use of these devices and in the elimination of industrial accidents.
A Plant Health & Safety Committee shall be maintained as presently constituted, consisting of not more than four (4) members representing the employer and not more than
11.01 cont'd
39
four (4) members representing the local union. The function of the committee is to facilitate the promotion of safe work practices and accident prevention in the plant.
The committee shall meet not less than once per month in order to discuss safety problems. The committee's function will include a periodic tour of a section of the factory to observe and report on unsafe conditions or procedures. The committee will make recommendations concerning safety in the factory with the status of any recommendation made to be reviewed at each meeting. The committee should periodically verify that adopted recommendations are being complied with.
11.02	Each associate shall use reasonable care for the cleanliness of his/her machine and the immediate working area.
11.03	The employer agrees to permit the union to post notices of meetings and other union business or affairs on bulletin boards throughout the factory provided for such purposes; it is agreed, however, that such notices shall be approved by the Personnel Manager and posted by members of the employer's Personnel Department.
11.04	A Bargaining Committee consisting of three (3) members, all of whom shall be regular associates of the employer and eighteen (18) years of age or over, shall be selected by the associates who are members of the union, in a manner determined by the union. The employer shall be informed by the union, in writing, of the personnel of the committee and of any changes which may occur from time to time.
11.05	The union recognizes the need for improved methods and agrees to co-operate with the employer in suggesting and introducing such methods and in educating its members in the need of such changes and improvements; the employer and the union agree that, consistent with fair and reasonable labour practices, it is desirable to maintain the best productivity possible.
11.06	The union pledges that it will co-operate with the employer in an effort for the highest quality of product.
11.07
11.08
11.09
11.10
12.01
(1)	The membership of the production squadron training
group shall not exceed four (4) percent of the associates in the bargaining unit. Bargaining associates shall not be sent home and replaced by production squadron trainees.
The training program for any member will not extend beyond a three (3) year period unless mutually agreed upon by both the company and the union.
(2)	Associates recruited from the bargaining unit for
the production squadron training program and who fail to meet accepted training standards at any time during the course, will be transferred back to the bargaining unit with their total service credited to them.
The union shall have the right to select not more than one (1) steward for every fifteen (15) associates on the seniority list. A list of stewards shall be furnished to the employer before the employer is required to recognize them.
The following shall be covered by separate Agreements but form part of this Collective Labour Agreement:
(a)	Health and Life Agreement (and attached letters)
(b)	Separation Payment Plan (and attached letter)
(c)	Supplemental Unemployment Benefit Agreement
(and attached letters)
(d)	The Apprentice Training Agreement
(e)	Pension Plan and Severance Award Agreement (and
attached letters)
The letters of understanding, the letters of intent, and the interimwage increase provisions are attached hereto, and form part of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 12
DURATION OF COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
The Agreement shall be effective on the fhi rfcenth dav of February, 1993, and shall remain in effect until the T2th _ day^-of“february, 1996 , and thereafter from year to year unless either party gives to the other party notice in writing of cancellation or of proposals for revision within a period of not less than two (2) months or more than three (3) months prior to the anniversary date.
- 41 -
12.02	(1) If either party gives to the other a notice of
cancellation in accordance with the provisions of Section 12.01, this Collective Agreement shall terminate in accordance with such notice.
(2) If either party gives to the other a notice of proposals for revision in accordance with the provisions of Section 12.01, the parties shall meet to consider the proposed revisions within fifteen (15) days of the date of delivery of such notice. If no agreement on the proposed revisions is reached by midnight of February 12, 1996, or by midnight of any other subsequent anniversary date, as the case may be, this Collective Agreement shall be continued in operation for a period not exceeding one (1) year less one day until a new Agreement is reached or until the procedure contemplated by Section 94 of the Alberta Labour Act has been completed.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto have executed this Agreement this
day of

1993
LOCAL UNION 628 OF THE UNITED RUBBER, CORK, LINOLEUM AND PLASTIC WORKERS OF AMERICA
GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
42
APPENDIX A
Job rates effective January 17, 1993.
JOB RATES
Department 4026
Janitor/Security
DEPARTMENT 4321
15.32
Receiving &	Shipping ................................. 15.37
Stores ................................................ 15.41
DEPARTMENT 4390 - SERVICE
Receiving &	Shipping ................................. 15.47
Shipper/Tractor Driver ................................ 15.90
DEPARTMENT 4102 - TECHNICAL SERVICE
Q.A. Lab ............................................
Physical Lab •$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$
DEPARTMENT 4216 - ENGINEERING - POWER HOUSE
Shift Engineer (Minimum 4th Class) ..................
Chief Engineer (Minimum 3rd Class) ..................
DEPARTMENT 4211 - ENGINEERING - MAINTENANCE
Maintenance (With ticket) ...........................
Electrician (With ticket) ...........................
Oiler (With ticket) .................................
Oiler (No Ticket) ...................................
DEPARTMENT 4432 - BANBURY
16.01
15.58
18.39
18.89
18.34 18.39
18.34 16.48
Operator ................
Compounder ..............
Conveyor & Mill Operator Laydown .................
17.41
16.86
16.86
16.69
DEPARTMENT 4433 - CALENDER
Operator .............
Mill Operator ........
Helper ...............
17.62 * 17.10 * 17.01 *
*
AJoove rates add $0.25 for fabric operation code 80010.
43
DEPARTMENT 4437 - CEMENT HOUSE
Cement Tech........................................... 15.52
DEPARTMENT 4541 - BTAS CUTTER
Operator ......
Roll Changer .
Service Person
17.32
16.77
15.21
DEPARTMENT 4542 - READ ITNTT
Insulate, Build & Wrap ................................ 16.94
Wrap .................................................... 15.34
DEPARTMENT 4543 - TUBER
Tuber/Calender Operator ..............................
Operator .............................................
Mill Operator
Cushion Applier/Skiver ...............................
Tank Pusher/Skiver ...................................
Helper ...............................................
17.62
17.31
16.83
16.68
16.68
16.58
DEPARTMENT 4544 - BAND UNIT
Band Builder 65" Unit ........
Assist. Band Builder 65" Unit Reroll Liners ................
17.01
16.70
15.21
DEPARTMENT 4550 AND 4551 - F.M. & P.B. TTRE RTTTLDTNO
Tire Builder - Level 1	...........................
Tire Builder - Level 2 **	........................
Tire Builder - Level 3 **	........................
Service ............................................
Repair Green Tires .................................
** Training rates to allow progression to Level 1.
DEPARTMENT 4560 AND 4561 - CURES
Cure Passenger/Implement Tires .....................
Cure/Trim/Inspect Tractor Tires ....................
Paint & Line .......................................
Mold Changer/Cleaner ...............................
DEPARTMENT 4570 - ETNAT, INSPECTION
Inspect & Trim Passenger Tires .....................
Classifier/Repair Tires ............................
17.62
16.78
16.26
15.47
15.25
16.06
16.06
15.36
17.24
16.06
15.38
WAGES:
- 44 -
COLLECTIVE LABOUR AGREEMENT
Effective January 17th 1993:
General wage increase to all associates .............
Inequity increases to all Engineering associates (Depts. 4211 and 4216 - 29 associates) ..............
Inequity increases to Dept. 4102 (Lab) - 3 associates
Inequity increases to Dept. 4437 (Cement House) -1 associate .........................................
Inequity increases to Dept. 4390 (Warehouse) -9 associates ........................................
Silent C.O.L.A. payment of...........................
. $0.10/Hour
. $0.15/Hour .$0.10/Hour
, $0.10/Hour
, $0.10/Hour $0.07/Hour
Effective February 13th 1994;
General wage increase to all associates.................$0.10/Hour
Inequity increases to all Engineering associates
(Depts. 4211 and 4216) .................................$0.10/Hour
Inequity Increases to Dept. 4102 (Lab) .................$0.10/Hour
Effective February 13th 1995:
Inequity increases to all Engineering associates
(Depts. 4211 and 4216) ................................ $0.10/Hour
APPENDIX B
INTERIM WAGE INCREASES
1.	The amount of interim increase shall be calculated and recalculated as provided below on the basis of the Consumer Price Index published by Statistics Canada (1986 = 100) and hereinafter referred to as the C.P.I.
2.	First Year of Agreement
(a)	"The Base for Calculation" - the average C.P.I. for the months of December 1992, January 1993, and February 1993.
Appendix B cont'd
- 45
(b)	The first adjustment will be calculated and paid as of
the pay period commencing on May 23 1993. It will reflect one cent ($.01) per hour for each full .083 points that the average C.P.I. for the months of February 1993, March 1993, and April 1993, exceeds the base for calculation.
(c)	A second adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay period commencing on August 22, 1993. It will reflect one cent ($.01) per hour for each full .083 points that the average C.P.I. for the months of May 1993, June 1993, and July 1993 exceeds the base for calculation.
(d)	A third adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay period commencing on November 28, 1993. It will reflect one cent ($.01) per hour for each full .083 points that the average C.P.I. for the months of August 1993, September 1993, and October 1993 exceeds the base for calculation.
(e)	A fourth adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay period commencing on February 27, 1994. It will reflect one cent ($.01) per hour for each full .083 points that the average C.P.I. for the months of November
1993,	December 1993 and January 1994, exceeds the base for calculation.
3.	Second Year of the Agreement
(a)	"The Base for Calculation" - the average C.P.I. for the months of December 1993, January 1994, and February 1994.
(b)	The first adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay period commencing on May 22 1994. It will reflect one cent ($.01) per hour for each full .083 points that the average C.P.I. for the months of February
1994,	March 1994, and April 1994, exceeds the base for calculation.
(c)	A second adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay period commencing on August 28, 1994. It will reflect one cent ($.01) per hour for each full .083 points that the average C.P.I. for the months of May 1994, June 1994, and July 1994 exceeds the base for calculation.
(d)	A third adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay period commencing on November 27, 1994. It will
- 46-
Appendix B cont'd
reflect one cent ($.01) per hour for each full .083 points that the average C.P.I. for the months of August 1994/ September 1994, and October 1994 exceeds the base for calculation.
(e) A fourth adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay period commencing on February 26, 1995. It will reflect one cent ($.01) per hour for each full .083 points that the average C.P.I. for the months of November
1994,	December 1994 and January 1995, exceeds the base for calculation.
4.	Third Year of the Agreement
"The Base for Calculation" - the average C.P.I. for the months of December 1994, January 1995, and February 1995.
The first adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay period commencing on May 28 1995. It will reflect one cent ($.01) per hour for each full .083 points that the average C.P.I. for the months of February
1995,	March 1995, and April 1995, exceeds the base for calculation.
A second adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay period commencing on August 27, 1995. It will reflect one cent ($.01) per hour for each full .083 points that the average C.P.I. for the months of May 1995, June 1995, and July 1995 exceeds the base for calculation.
A third adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay period commencing on November 26, 1995. It will reflect one cent ($.01) per hour for each full .083 points that the average C.P.I. for the months of August 1995, September 1995, and October 1995 exceeds the base for calculation.
5.	The interim increase will be considered as earnings, but will be boxed separately from other wage payments on the associate's time sheet.
6.	In the event Statistics Canada does not issue the appropriate Consumer Price Index on or before the date on which an adjustment is to be calculated, any adjustment required will be made at the beginning of the first pay period following receipt of the index.
(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
- 47-
Appendix B cont'd
7.	No adjustments, retroactive or otherwise, shall be made due to any revision which may later be made in any published Consumer Price Index by Statistics Canada.
8.	Continuation of the interim adjustments is dependent upon the availability of the official Statistics Canada Consumer Price Index calculated on the same basis and in the same form as that published for February 1993.
9.	Each adjustment specified in the interim wage increase formula will replace the previous adjustment, if any, in its entirety except the fourth adjustment in the first year of the Agreement will be carried over throughout the second and third years of the Agreement and the fourth adjustment in the second year of the Agreement will be carried throughout the third year of the Agreement.
APPENDIX C
CREW PROGRESSIONS AND REGRESSIONS
Crew progressions and regressions will be applied to the following crews and order of progression of each unit will be as follows:
BANBURY
1.	Operator
2.	Compounder
3.	Mill Operator
4.	Laydown
CALENDER
1.	Operator
2.	Mill Operator
3.	Helper - Splitter/ Gum Operator
4.	Helper - Letoff
5.	Helper - Windup
BIAS CUTTER
1.	Operator
2.	Roll Changer
3.	Service B.C.
The two compounders on the based on crew seniority as both
TUBER
1.	Operator
2.	Mill Operator
3.	Cushion Applier/Skiver
4.	Tank Pusher/Skiver
5.	Helper
65" BAND UNIT
1.	Band Builder
2.	Assistant Band Builder
3.	Reroll Liners
banbury will progress or regress associates do the same job.
- 48-
Appendix C cont'd
When a condition occurs where more than 50% of the total job positions in any single status are filled by associates who cannot qualify for advancement or who wish not to advance, the company reserves the right in all cases to make the final decision on whether to remove the associate with the least crew seniority of the non-progressive associates from their status. The associate so affected will revert to the next lower position within the crew to enable other associates who are willing to progress to do so.
In order that training needs may be filled, associates will be rotated at the discretion of the Area Manager. This training program will not change the associate's priority to any vacancy which may occur while he/she is involved in the training rotation.
Crew seniority does not apply however to make-up crews which may be required to operate equipment outside of their regular department. In these instances crews shall accumulate seniority on their regular equipment only.
Crew seniority will not apply in temporary emergency situations. However, normal crew progression and regression will be followed, if possible, and providing a competent working force can be maintained at all times. For normal vacation purposes, when an associate is on his/her regular scheduled vacation, progressions will be followed within the absent associate's crew only.
An associate shall not attain crew seniority until he/she has worked in the same crew or crews for three (3) cumulative months in any twenty four (24) month period.
APPENDIX D
5 DAY. OR 62/3 DAY WORK SCHEDULE
This Agreement is made and entered into as of the 13th day of February 1993 between Goodyear Canada Inc. with respect to it's associates at it's Medicine Hat Plant and Warehouse located at 1271 - 12th Street N.W., hereinafter referred to as the "employer" and Local Union 628 of the United Rubber, Cork, Linoleum and Plastic Workers of America, hereinafter referred to as the "Union".
It is understood and agreed that in order to make full use of the Medicine Hat Plant, the employer may schedule any operations including warehouse operations, as required, on a 5 day, or 6 2/3 day, work schedule.
When it becomes necessary for the employer to schedule one or more of the plant's operations on the 6 2/3 day work schedule, a fourth crew will be instituted and a shift schedule will be adopted
- 49-
Appendix D cont'd
which would schedule each associate to work a regular schedule	’
averaging forty (40) hours per week.	'
i
The employer undertakes to provide the local union with a	1
minimum notification of one (1) month prior to implementation of any new schedule. The employer further undertakes that upon implementation of any new schedule, reasonable efforts will be made to ensure continuity of the schedule.
Letter of Understanding #1
It is the policy of the Company to perform maintenance and engineering work with its own associates, provided it has the manpower, skills, equipment and facilities to do so and can do the work competitively and within prescribed time limits.
The Company will place primary importance on maintaining maximum employment opportunities for its skilled trade associates.
The Company will continue to notify the Union in advance if possible, when an outside contractor is to be engaged to work in the plant.
Letter of Understanding #2
This will confirm the Company's commitments with respect to the closure of Medicine Hat Plant covered by this Agreement. In the event a full plant closure occurs during the life of the Agreement:
1.	The Company and/or Employer will notify the Local and International Union in accordance with any applicable Alberta status covering the subject.
2.	Following such notification, the Local and International Union will have the right to discuss and explore with the Company and/or Employer any possible means of adverting the closure.
3.	If attempts to avert the plant closure are not successful, Company and/or Employer and Union representatives will meet to negotiate the manner in which the closure is carried out.
Letter of Understanding #3
This will serve to confirm the understanding reached during recent negotiations regarding time lost on a shift where it pertains to Article 6.04 (1).
- 50 -
Letter of Understanding #3 cont'd
An associate who is granted leave in accordance with Section 6.04 (1) shall have his/her time considered part of his/her regular shift hours in determining overtime hours on regular departmental work.
Letter of Understanding #4
This letter will confirm the understanding reached during recent negotiations.
In the event that a holiday falls during an associate’s regular vacation period and provided that the said associate actually works on his/her last regularly scheduled shift prior to and on his/her first regularly scheduled shift following the vacation period and such holiday, the associate shall at his/her option:
1.	Take an additional day of vacation at a mutually agreed to time during that year;
OR
2.	Be paid one (1) additional day’s pay in lieu of extending his/her vacation period.
Letter of Understanding #5
It is understood and agreed that piecework has been removed from the Medicine Hat Plant. All reference to piecework has been deleted from the Collective Labour Agreement.
Should a piecework wage payment system be reinstated at any time in the future, the piecework clauses from the February 13, 1987 - February 12, 1990, Collective Labour Agreement will be used as the basis of negotiations between the two parties.
Letter of Understanding #6
This will serve to confirm the understanding reached during recent negotiations regarding the hiring of summer vacation relief.
The Company will hire summer vacation relief, as required, during the period of May through August. These associates will be paid at the current hiring-in rate for the term of their employment.
- 51 -
Letter of Understanding #6 cont'd
Overtime provisions will not apply except for statutory holidays when they will be paid in accordance with Article 7.04.
No overtime will be paid until the completion of 40 hours work per week or, in the case of associates on the 6 2/3 work schedule, 32 hours one week and 48 the next.
This provision will not apply to any current students who may return to employment but will apply to all future students.
Letter of Understandins #7
This letter will serve to confirm the understanding reached during recent negotiations with respect to an alternate 6 2/3 work schedule. (See Attachment A).
This letter sets out the conditions under which the parties agree to implement a new 6 2/3 work schedule on a trial basis.
When such schedule is implemented, it will continue for a three (3) month trial period. In view of the potential impact on the associates and operations, the schedule will be subject to continuous monitoring and evaluation and if at any time during such trial there is any deterioration in departmental costs or areas, such as health and safety, productivity, quality, and uniformity, absenteeism, or any legislative prohibition, the Company or the union may terminate the trial upon written notice to the other party.
Should the trial prove successful, and both parties are in agreement, it will be instituted as the regular 6 2/3 day schedule.
ATTACHMENT A
D -	Day Shift	8:00A.M.	to	8:00 P.M.
N -	Night Shift	8:00 P.M.	to	8:00 A.M.
a -	Afternoon shift	4:00 P.M.	to	12:00 P.M.
n - Night shift 12:00 P.M. to 8:00 A.M.
Associates work/off:	2-2, 3-2, 2-3 rotation
SMTWTFS SMTWTFS SMTWTFS SMTWTFS
CREW PREMIUMS #1 - $0.90/HR WORKED #2 - $0.90/HR WORKED #3 - $0.90/HR WORKED #4 - $0.90/HR WORKED
CREW In DD 
CREW 2 a NN 
CREW 3-DD -- NN
CREW 4 -NN--DD
-	N	N-----D	D
-	D	D	-	-	N	N
n------D D------
a	-	-	N	N	-	-
a	-	-	N	N	-	-
n------D D------
-	N	N	-	-	D	D
-	D	D---N	N
-	D	D-----N	N
-	N	N	-	-	D	D
a	-	-	N	N	-	-
n------D D------
Letter of Understanding #8
52
This letter will serve to confirm the understanding reached on contracting out miscellaneous painting and clean-up work.
The Company reserves the right to use contract labour (outside the bargaining unit) to perform general plant clean-up and painting as warranted.
The use of contract labour will not interfere with the current janitor’s work schedule and will only be used when the unusual situation occurs that requires additional cleaning and painting.
Letter of Understanding #9
This letter will serve to confirm the understanding reached on the voluntary overtime list.
This list will be used for emergency overtime and not for scheduled overtime.
Letter of Intent #1
This letter will serve to confirm the understanding reached during recent negotiations with respect to operating supplies.
We will investigate the feasibility of implementing a tool and glove allowance in order to reduce operating costs.
A joint committee will be formed to look at the best way to implement this system.
Letter of Intent #2
This letter will serve to confirm the understanding reached during recent negotiations with respect to calender/tuber operations.
The Company will investigate the feasibility of combining the Tuber and Calender Mill operations which would lead to realigning job assignments in order to reduce cost and offset inflation.
- 53 -
ALPHABETICAL INDEX
Agreement Cancellation ............... ■ ■ ■
Agreement Duration ................... ■ ■ ■
Arbitration Board
Chairman ...........................
Single Arbitrator ..................
Nominee ............................
Three Man ..........................
Decision ...........................
Arbitration Expense .....................
Arbitration - Notice of .................
Bargaining Committee Meetings Payment .
Bargaining Committee Personnel ..........
Bargaining Unit Recognition .............
Job Rates ...............................
Bereavement - Time Off ..................
Breakdowns ...............................
Breakdowns -
Minimum Pay ........................
Call in Pay ........................
Changes in Starting Time - Minimum Pay
Cleanliness - Work Area .................
Continuous Operation Provision ..........
Deduction of Union Dues .................
Department Lists for Seniority Purposes
Discharge or Suspension as Penalty ......
Duration of Collective Agreement ........
First Aid Payment .......................
Grievance & Arbitration Procedure .......
Grievance - Rate ........................
Handicapped Associates - Seniority • • ••
Holidays ................................
Holiday During Vacation .................
Holiday Pay - Qualification .............
Holiday Pay - Time Lost .................
Holiday Pay - Time Worked ...............
Hours of Work ...........................
Hours - Standard ........................
Improved Methods ........................
Interim Increase Formula ................
Interpretation of Agreement Dispute ... Interpretation of Terms .................
SECTION
12.02
12.01
10.05 10.10 (2)
10.05
10.06 10.06 10.07
10.03
5.13
11.04 3.01
App. "A" 5.17 5.05
5.09
5.07
5.08 11.02.
App. "D"
Article 9 6.15 10.12
Article 12 5.11
Article 10 5.14
6.17
7.01 7.06
7.03
7.04
7.05
Article 4
4.01
11.05 App. "B" 10.11
Article 2
54 -
Jury Duty - General Provisions
5.16
Law - Confliction with .............
Layoffs ............................
Layoffs - Elimination/Modernization
of Methods etc ................
Layoffs Prior to Holiday ...........
Layoffs - Privileges ...............
Layoffs - Union Officers ...........
Leave of Absence - Union Officers • Leave of Absence - Personal Reasons
3.04
6.08 - 6.09
6.19
7.07
6.06 - 6.07
6.04	(2)
6.04 6.18
Management Functions . Minimum Wages - Hiring Miscellaneous ........
3.02
5.03
Article 11
Notation on Record ........
Notice - Layoff or Leaving Notices - Union ...........
10.17
6.10
11.03
Offshift Premium .... Overtime Distribution
Overtime Payment ....
Overtime Work .......
5.15
4.01	(3) 5.06
4.02
Probationer ..........
Progression/Regression Protective Equipment . Purpose of Agreement .
6.05 -6.06 App. "C" 11.01
Article 1
Quality of Product
11.06
Rates of Pay ........................
Rates of Pay - Bereavement ..........
Rates of Pay - General Adjustment •• Rates of Pay - Individual Adjustment
Rates of Pay - Jury Duty ............
Rates of Pay - Minimum ..............
Rates of Pay - Temporary Work .......
Recalls .............................
Recognition of Bargaining Unit ......
Record of Notation .................
Records - Seniority .................
Reinstatement .......................
Relief Help .........................
Article 5 5.17
5.01
5.02 5.16
5.03	(a)
5.04	(1-2) 6.08 (3) 3.01
10.17
6.14
6.11
4.04
Safety Committee .......................
Scope of Agreement .....................
Seniority ..............................
Seniority - Accumulation During Sickness
Seniority - Calculation ................
Seniority - Crews ......................
11.01
Article 3 Article 6 6.03 6.01
App. "C"
- 55
Seniority - Factory ....................
Seniority - Engineering Division .......
Seniority - Handicapped Associates ....
Seniority - Loss of ....................
Seniority - Revision of Lists ..........
Seniority Records .....................
Squadron Membership ....................
Standard Hours ........................
Stewards - Numbers of ..................
Strikes, Lockouts, Slowdowns, etc ......
Supervisor - Part Time Work ............
Supervisor - Return to Associate Status
Article 6 6.08
6.17
6.02
6.14
6.14
11.07 4.01
11.08 3.03
5.18
6.12
Temporary Work Payment ..........
Time Lost - Comp. Request .......
Time Sheet Changes .............
Transfers - Associate Request . . Transfers - Engineering Division
5.04
5.11
4.03
6.13
6.08
(4)(5)(6)
Union Notices ..............................
Union Officers - Layoff & Leave of Absence
11.03
6.04
Vacancies - Notification of Vacation - Eligibility . . . .
Vacation - Pay ............
Vacation - Minimum ........
Vacation Pay - Computation
Vacation - Year ...........
Violation of Agreement ....
6.13 (3)
8.02
8.03
8.02 (1)
8.03
8.01
10.11