COLLECTIVE
LABOUR
A G R E E M E N
BETWEEN
GOODYEAR CANADA INC. MEDICINE HAT PLANT AND G.E.L. WAREHOUSE
THE EMPLOYER
AND
LOCAL UNION 628 OF THE
UNITED RUBBER, CORK, LINOLEUM AND PLASTIC WORKERS
OF AMERICA
FOR THE EMPLOYEES
FEBRUARY 13, 1990 - FEBRUARY 12, 1993
ARTICLE INDEX
Page
ARTICLE 1
Purpose ................................................ 1
ARTICLE 2
Interpretation .......................................... 1
ARTICLE 3 Scope	of	Agreement 			 3
ARTICLE 4 Hours	of	Work 			 4
ARTICLE 5 Rates	of	Pay 			 6
ARTICLE 6			
Seniority ............................................. 10
ARTICLE 7
Designated Holidays ................................... 20
ARTICLE 8
Vacations ................................................. 22
ARTICLE 9
Union Security ............................................ 25
ARTICLE 10
Grievance and Arbitration Procedure ....................... 27
ARTICLE 11
Miscellaneous ............................................. 31
ARTICLE 12
Duration of Collective Agreement APPENDIX A
Basic Rates & Classifications ............................. 34
APPENDIX B
Interim Increase Formula .................................. 37
APPENDIX C
Crew Progression and Regression ........................... 39
APPENDIX D
6 2/3 Four Crew Work Schedule ............................. 40
APPENDIX E
Compressed Work Schedule - 12-hour shift .................. 42
46
LETTERS
ADDENDUM TO THE COLLECTIVE LABOUR AGREEMENT .................................... 49
ALPHABETICAL INDEX.............................................................. 51
1
COLLECTIVE LABOUR AGREEMENT
This Collective Labour Agreement is made and entered into as of the L3th day of February 1990, between Goodyear Canada Inc. with respect to certain employees at its Medicine Hat Plant, and G.E.L. Warehouse, hereinafter referred to as the "employer" and Local Union 628 of the United Rubber, Cork, Linoleum and Plastic Workers of America, hereinafter referred to as the "union".
ARTICLE 1 PURPOSE
1.01	It is the mutual desire of the contracting parties to promote co-operation and harmony and to provide an amicable method of settling any dispute or grievance that might arise between them.
1.02	They agree to work in harmonious relationship and undertake:
(a)	that there shall be no discrimination, interference, restraint or coercion by or on behalf of the employer regarding any employee covered by this Agreement because of membership or non-membership in the union;
(b)	that the union, its members or its agents shall not intimidate or coerce said employees into membership.
ARTICLE 2
INTERPRETATION
2.01 In this Collective Agreement and its application, unless the
context requires otherwise, the following words and expressions will have the meaning hereafter given to them:
(a)	"employer" means Goodyear Canada Inc., Medicine Hat Plant, and Medicine Hat Warehouse, Medicine Hat, Alberta.
(b)	"employee" means and includes all hourly-rated employees of the employer at its Medicine Hat Plant and its Medicine Hat Warehouse, below the level of supervisors, with the exception of office employees, security guards, production squadron training group, and production schedulers.
(c)	"probationer" means an employee without seniority.
(d)	"probationary period" means the period of three cumulative months during any twenty-four month period during which the probationer works for the employer prior to acquiring seniority rights.
2
2.01 (cont'd)
(e)	"Qualification" means the ability to perform the operation to which an employee is assigned in a competent manner and to produce the same standard of quantity and quality of work as is usually obtained from such operation; "to qualify" and "qualified" shall have a like meaning.
(f)	"Surplus employee" means an employee on lay-off status from his regular operation for an indefinite period.
(g)	"lay-off" means the termination of work of an employee by the employer for an indefinite period, caused by the decision of the employer to reduce or eliminate the work upon which the employee was engaged; "laid off" shall have a like meaning.
(h)	The term "job rate" or "rate of pay" shall mean the rate per hour for all day work operations.
(i)	The term "average hourly earnings" as used in this agreement is defined as an employee's hourly earnings exclusive of all premiums.
Average hourly earnings will be based where possible on the previous pay period and will be applied the Wednesday following each pay period for a one week period.
(j)	"Job rate" shall mean the hourly rate per appendix "A" that an employee shall be paid for all hours worked on that operation
or another operation to which he is assigned unless the assigned operation warrants a higher job rate. In such case, the higher job rate will be paid for all hours worked on that operation provided a satisfactory effort is made.
(k)	The term "vacancy" shall not include a vacancy caused by any of the following:
(1)	when	an	employee	is	absent by reason	of	sickness;
(2)	when	an	employee	is	on vacation;
(3)	when	an	employee	is	on an authorizee	leave of absence;
(4)	when	a qualified	employee is in lay-off	status except as
provided in Section 6.13, subsection 3 of this Collective Agreement.
2.01 (cont'd)
(l)	"factory seniority" means the status that an employee acquires after he has worked for the employer for three cumulative months in any twenty-four month period.
(m)	"department seniority" means the status that an employee (with factory seniority) of the Engineering Division acquires
after he has worked for the employer for three cumulative months in any twenty-four month period in the same department.
(n) "classified job seniority" means the status that an employee with factory seniority acquires after he has worked continuously for his employer for three consecutive months or for three cumulative months in any twenty-four month period on the same classified job.
(o)	The term "credited service" means the service of an employee with the employer as it appears on his record maintained by the employer in conformity with the Collective Labour Agreement. The terms "credited service" and "continuous service" as used throughout this agreement shall be synonomous. The records of the employer shall be presumed to be conclusive of the facts concerning the service, employment, non-employment, or disability retirement of an employee, a former employee, pensioner or applicant for a pension, unless shown beyond a reasonable doubt to be incorrect.
(P) "crew seniority" means the status acquired by an employee in respect to the time accumulated by him while working in the same crew or crews, working on the same operation.
(q) "Temporary" or temporary period shall mean a period of time not to exceed three consecutive months duration except where an employee is assigned to cover for absenteeism due to sickness, vacation or authorized leave of absence.
ARTICLE 3
SCOPE OF AGREEMENT
3.01 The terms of this Collective Agreement shall apply to all employees who are defined in the certificate issued by the Board of Industrial Relations of the Province of Alberta, and the employer recognizes the union as the sole collective bargaining agent for the said employees for the duration of this Collective Agreement.
3.02
3.03
3.04
4.01
(cont'd)
The union acknowledges that it is the exclusive function of the employer:
(a)	to maintain order, discipline and efficiency;
(b)	to hire, discharge, transfer, upgrade, promote, demote or
discipline employees and to increase and decrease the work force, provided that if there is a claim by an employee who has acquired seniority that he has been disciplined or discharged without reasonable cause, it may be made the subject of a grievance and dealt with as provided in this Agreement;
(c)	to determine the qualifications of each employee;
(d)	to operate and manage its business in all respects and
without limiting the generality of the foregoing, to determine:
the number and location of plants the products to be manufactured
the methods of manufacturing and the production schedules to be used
the type and location of machines and tools to be used the engineering and design of its products the control of material and parts to be incorporated in to the product.
The employer agrees that these functions will be exercised in a manner not inconsistent with the terms of this Agreement.
There shall be no lock-out, strike, slow down or stoppage of work during the term of this Agreement.
In the event that any of the provisions of this Collective Agreement are found to be in conflict with any valid and applicable Federal or Provincial law now existing, or hereinafter enacted, it is agreed that such law shall supersede the conflicting provisions without in any way affecting the remainder of the Collective Agreement.
ARTICLE 4 HOURS OF WORK
(1) With the exception of operations which are scheduled on a seven day or 6 2/3 day basis, the regular weekly schedule for the factory is a five day, forty-hour week from Monday to Friday inclusive and each employee is assigned regular shift hours according to his type of work. However, this shall not be taken as a guarantee of hours of work per day, or days of work per week.
5
A.01 (cont'd)
(2)	The employer may schedule work in excess of regular plant
hours in order to maintain the factory and equipment, or to keep the production processes in balance, or to avoid the temporary hiring and laying off of employees.
(3)	Overtime shall be distributed in an equal and impartial
manner among the qualified employees of the department in which overtime work becomes necessary. The employees are expected to take their rightful share of this distribution.
(A) The number of shifts per day are as follows:
(i) Eight hour rotating shift - straight time:
Shift hours:
8:00 a.m. to A:00 p.m.
A :00 p.m. to 12 midnight 12 midnight to 8:00 a.m.
$ hour for lunch $ hour for lunch straight time
(iii) Eight hour shifts - rotating or non-rotating - various starting time - straight time and/or with $ hour for lunch.
Established shifts may be changed by mutual agreement.
A.02 "Overtime work" means all time worked in excess of an employee's eight-hour shift in twenty-four hour period from the time he is reguired to start work; and also means all time worked from 8:00 a.m. Saturday to 8:00 a.m. Monday. This overtime provision for week-end work does not apply to janitor-watchmen whose regular weekly schedule requires them to work on Saturday and/or Sunday. For such employees, their regular scheduled days off will be considered as overtime work.
Overtime work does not include:
(a)	time worked by employees substituting for one another at
their own request;
(b)	a change of an employee's working hour at his own request;
(c)	regular weekly shift change;
(a) the time spent on employee committee work or similar activity;
A.03 An employee will be advised of any change that is made on his time sheet by the end of the next working day.
A.0A The employer will provide adequate relief when necessary.
(ii) Other rotating shifts: Shift hours:
8:00 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. -4:30 p.m. to 1:00 a.m. -1:00 a.m. to 8:00 a.m. -
4.05
4.06
5.01
5.02
5.03
The employer shall not reduce the regular working time of an employee because he has done overtime work, unless the employee consents to such reduction.
It is the policy of the Company not to schedule an employee to work for more than twelve consecutive hours at one time. However, it is recognized that in emergency situations or when other qualified employees are not available, it may be necessary to request an employee or employees to work beyond twelve consecutive hours. It is the Company's intention to keep such occurrences to an absolute minimum.
ARTICLE 5 RATES OF PAY
The rates of pay shall be the ones in effect at the date hereof, as set out in Appendix A and is attached hereto, and forms part of this Agreement.
These rates will be revised in accordance with the Memorandum of Agreement signed between the employer and the union on February 14, 1990.
The rates as so revised shall remain in effect for the balance of the term of this Collective Agreement.
Interim increases will be calculated and applied in accordance with the formula as set out in Appendix B and is attached hereto, and forms part of this Agreement.
Any individual rates of pay requiring an adjustment because of a change in working conditions may be given consideration.
(a)	The minimum hiring in rate of pay, is $11.00 per hour, effective February 13, 1990. This rate will remain unchanged during the term of this agreement, but subject to changes in accordance with future Memorandum of Agreement between the employer and the Union.
(b)	Job transfer rates:	An employee who is transferred to
another operation, either through displacement or through a transfer request, shall be paid the rate of the job to which he has transferred provided he can qualify or his job rate until such time as he can qualify on the new operation, except where the rate of the new operation is less than his current rate, in such case he will be paid the rate of the new operation.
5.04
5.05
5.06
5.07
5.08
/
(1)	If the employer temporarily assigns an employee, for the benefit
of the employer, to another operation on which he is inexperience! while there is work available on the employee's regular operation, he will be paid his average hourly earnings, providing he has made a satisfactory effort.
(2)	If the employer temporarily assigns an employee, for the benefit
of the employer, to another operation on which he is experienced, while there is work available on the employee's regular operation, he will be paid his average hourly earnings or the job rate of the temporary operation, providing he has made a satisfactory effort.
(3)	When an employee is assigned to instruct other employees or
is assigned to perform experimental work under the guidance of the Development Department, he shall be paid his average hourly earnings.
Time lost on a shift by an employee, owing to breakdown, stock shortage, defective stock or any other reason beyond the employee's but within the employer's control, shall be paid for at the rate of his average hourly earnings. However, in the case of a breakdown beyond the control of both the employer and the employee, the employee shall be paid average hourly earnings only for time lost on his shift during the period he is required by the employer to remain on the job.
In circumstances contemplated in Section 5.05, when an employee finishes his shift on an operation providing for a higher rate of pay, he shall receive the highter rate of pay in addition to pay for time lost.
All over-time work shall be paid at the rate of time-and-one-half except during the period Saturday Midnight to Sunday Midnight or from 11:00 p.m. Saturday to 11:00 p.m. Sunday for those employees whose regular shift starts at 11:00 p.m., when double time will be paid.
In the case of janitor-watchmen who are scheduled on a seven day basis, time and one half will be paid for hours worked on their first and third scheduled days off. Double time will be paid for hours worked on their second, fourth and fifth scheduled days off. Over-time premium shall not be paid twice for the same hours worked.
An employee not previously scheduled to work who is called to work and consequently works in an emergency on Sunday or on a holiday, or at any time between one hour after he has left work and two hours before his next scheduled shift, shall receive either four hours at his regular rate of pay, or regular rate of pay plus premium pay applicable for actual time worked, whichever is the greater.
5 1
5.10
5.11
5.12
5.13
5.14
When an employee has not been notified of a change in his starting time and he comes to work at his customary time, he shall be paid his average hourly earnings for four hours of his regular shift, provided that the employee has advised the employer of his last and correct address. This shall apply only when conditions are within the employer's control. Such employees may be offered other suitable work, and if he refuses to accept such work he shall forfeit such pay.
When an employee reports for work on his scheduled shift and is sent home by reason of some break-down in the factory, he shall be paid his average hourly earnings for four hours of his regular shift, provided that the conditions which caused the break-down were within the employer's control. Such employee may be offered other suitable work, and if he refuses to accept such work he shall forfeit such pay.
In the case of an emergency where it is necessary for the employer to send an employee home before the conclusion of his regular shift in order to have him report for work on a later shift, the employee will be given the privilege of completing up to a maximum of four hours of work on his regular shift before going home. Payment will be made for such work at the regular straight time rate for hours worked on his regular shift. All hours worked on his later shift will be paid at the rate of time-and-one-half. In all such cases the employee affected must accept and complete the work assignment given to him by the employer in order to qualify for a benefit under this subsection.
An employee who is injured in the factory and is treated in the factory or is sent to an outside hospital shall be paid at his average hourly earnings for time lost on his shift.
An employee will be paid his average hourly earnings for time lost on his operation if he is called away from same by his employer.
This does not apply, however, in cases where disciplinary action is warranted.
Each member of an employee committee who is present at special meetings called by the employer, and with the employer present at the regular monthly meeting with the employer, or at 3rd and 4th step grievance meetings with the employer shall be paid at his average hourly earnings for the period until the time at which the meeting is adjourned. Each member of the Bargaining Committee shall also be paid at his average hourly earnings for time spent, to a minimum of 8 hours in any one day for days in which meetings are scheduled with the employer during negotiations for renewal of agreements until such time as application is made for conciliation services.
The designated steward or local union official representative will be paid at his average hourly earnings for time spent making time studies authorized by the employer or calculations therefrom or to a maximum of two working days while examining new or revised disputed rates in the time study department or while undergoing training conducted by the employer or authorized by the employer. For the purpose of this provision, consent for time off does not necessarily constitute authorization for payment.
Y
5.15
5.16
5.17
If settlement of the grievance results in an adjustment in the contested job rate, it shall be made retroactive to the effective date of the rate, but not to exceed 180 days on the operation.
Employees on second and third shift operations shall be granted premium payments as follows:
(a)	For all hours worked on the regularly scheduled second shift
- $.30 per hour.
(b)	For all hours worked on the regularly scheduled third shift -
$.35 per hour.
Any employee who is required to serve on a jury or as a witness subpoenaed by the Crown shall be paid the difference between the amount paid for such service and his average hourly earnings or his current hourly rate if on a day work for the .time lost from his regularly scheduled work shift by reason of such service, subject to the following provisions:
(a)	Employees must notify their supervision within twenty-four hours after receipt of notice of selection for jury duty or subpoenaed as a Crown witness;
(b)	Any employee called for jury duty or who is subpoenaed as a Crown witness and who is temporarily excused from attendance at court must report for work if a reasonable period of time remains to be worked in his shift;
(c)	Employees selected for jury duty or who are subpoenaed as a Crown witness who are on other than first shift shall be assigned to the first shift for those days they are required to serve;
(d)	In order to be eligible for such payment, the employee must furnish a written statement from the appropriate public official showing the date and time served and the amount of pay received;
(e)	Should an employee's scheduled vacation be affected due to his selection for jury duty or his being subpoenaed as a Crown witness, his foreman will reschedule said employee's vacation, if he so requests, in the current year.
5.19
6.01
6.02
10
An employee on the active payroll of the Company who is excused by the employer solely because of the death and funeral of a parent, son, daughter, husband, wife, brother, sister or grandparent will be compensated at his average hourly earnings rate upon presentation of proof of death for the time lost by him from his regular working schedule by reason of such absence for three days, commencing with the day of the death for each such death and funeral.
In the case of employee excused by the employer solely because of the death and funeral of a parent-in-law, grandchild, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, spouse's brother-in-law, spouses' sister-in-law, spouse's grandparent or a dependent who lives in the household of the employee, will be compensated, upon presentation of proof of death, at his average hourly earnings for the time lost by him from his regular working schedule by reason such absence, up to a maximum of three days for each such funeral.
An employee on the compressed work schedule will be compensated for time lost on his regular work schedule up to a maximum of (24) twenty-four hours for each such death and funeral. This provision to apply when it is necessary for the employee to make arrangements, for and/or attend the funeral.
For the purpose of this section, a step-parent or foster-parent shall be considered as a parent and a step-son or step-daughter or foster-son or daughter shall be considered as a son or daughter only where the step-parent or foster-parent has taken the place of the natural parent in relation to such child and is not in receipt of any financial aid for the support of such child.
No person on the payroll of the Company outside of the bargaining unit shall perform any part of the work normally performed by members of the bargaining unit. However, this provision will not prohibit instructions, the training of new employees, the handling of emergency situations or training of the Production Squadron Training group.
ARTICLE 6 SENIORITY
Seniority shall be calculated as from the date of the employee's first working day for the employer.
(1)	An employee shall lose his seniority when he resign or is
discharged.
(2)	A laid off employee shall lose his seniority whenever he
fails to:
(a)	Inform the employer of the address at which he can be reached when required to report to work. Changes of such address may be forwarded by mail, addressed to the Personnel Department, and will be acknowledged in writing;
LI
6.02 (cont'd)
(b)	Notify the employer of his intention to return to work within one working day after having been notified to do so by messenger or within three working days after a notice to do so has been sent by registered mail or telegram, in either case to his last address on the records of the employer;
(c)	Report for work within seven days after he has stated his intention to return to work.
In each of such cases, his employment and his seniority shall terminate at once without notice or other act on the part of the employer; provided that the provisions of subsections (b) or (c) do not apply if the employee furnishes a satisfactory reason to the employer within thirty days of his failure. This exception may be made only once in favour of any one employee.
(3)	An employee with seniority who is laid off with less than five years of factory seniority and is not recalled to work by the employer during the following two year period shall there upon lose his seniority. An employee who is laid off with five years or more of factory seniority and is not recalled to work by the employer during the following five year period shall thereupon lose his seniority.
(4)	(a) In any one lay-off period, a former employee with
seniority in lay-off status who held less than five years of seniority at time of layoff, shall be entitled to accumulate seniority held at time of lay-off but in no event shall such accumulation of seniority exceed one year.
(b)	In any one lay-off period, a former employee with seniority in lay-off status, who held five years or more of seniority at time of lay-off, shall be entitled to accumulate seniority and service to a maximum of two years.
(c)	The accumulation of seniority and service as provided under this subsection will be credited to an employee upon his return to work.
6.03	(1) An employee absent from work because of bodily injuries
caused by accident or sickness and qualified to receive weekly indemnity benefits under the terms of the Health and Life Insurance Agreement in effect from time to time between the employer and the union, shall be entitled to accumulate seniority and service during the period of his absence on the following basis:
12
An employee who has less than five years of continuous service with the employer will be entitled to accumulate seniority and service for a maximum period of one year, but his accumulated seniority and service shall not exceed his service with the employer as of the day on which he last worked prior to his illness.
An employee who has five or more years of continuous service with the employer, will be entitled to accumulate seniority and service for a maximum period of two years.
An employee who is absent from work because of bodily injury caused by accident or sickness and, under the advice of a doctor and at the discretion of the employer, returns to work on an operation other than his own, shall be allowed to accumulate his regular crew seniority while on such operation for the length of time of such assignment, to a maximum period of three months, or for a period equal to the number of calendar days he was absent because of such accident or sickness whichever is greater. His accumulated crew seniority shall not exceed his factory seniority.
(2)	The provisions of subsection (1) shall in no way limit the accumulation of seniority and service by an employee who is receiving Workers' Compensation Benefits.
(3)	An employee who is absent from work because of bodily injury caused by accident or sickness and who has accumulated , seniority and service in accordance with the provisions of Section 6.03 shall be entitled to retain such accumulated service and seniority together with his prior credited service and seniority so long as he remains disabled because of injury and is not able to return to work or to accept other employment. If he should accept other employment during such absence he shall be deemed to have resigned.
6.04	(1) An employee who is selected as a delegate to a convention of
the United Rubber, Cork, Linoleum and Plastic Workers of America, the Canadian Labour Congress, the Alberta Federation of Labour, or specific Union duties or municipal elective duties, may apply to his foreman for time off to attend such duties and will be granted such time as may be necessary for this purpose provided that such leave will not interfere with the efficient operation of the factory. Under this prevision, not more than one employee from each division may be absent at the same time. The Company will not limit the number of members of the bargaining committee who are entitled to attend grievance meetings beyond Step II.
6.03 (cont'd) (a)
(b)
(c)
13
6.04	(cont'd)
(2)	After normal placement under Section 6.09 the President, Vice
President, Secretary or Treasurer, in order of priority, and Executive Board member, in order of factory seniority, will not be laid off factory employment while there is work to be performed in the plant. In such event he shall displace the employee with the least seniority	in the factory.	The
displaced employee will be laid off.
(3)	An employee who is elected or selected for full time duty as
an officer for, or representative of, the United Rubber, Cork, Linoleum	and Plastic Workers	of America or	to	the
executive staff	of the Canadian Labour Congress or	to	the
Alberta Federation of Labour, which assignment will take him away from his employment with the employer, may apply in writing for leave of absence; such leave of absence shall be requested and	granted yearly and	shall cancel	itself
automatically upon termination of this Collective Agreement. For two years following the date the leave of absence is granted the employee will accumulate seniority and service for employment reinstatement and thereafter will retain seniority for as long as his leave of absence continues in force. Following the termination of his leave of absence and his immediate return to work for the employer, he shall be reinstated to all privileges of employment and he shall be offered the same work in the department which he had left or similar work at the then current rate of pay for such work.
For pension purposes only, such employees will be credited with the seniority and service which he had attained up to the time his leave of absence had been granted and will also be entitled to accumulated seniority and service, but his accumulated, seniority and service, shall not exceed his service with the employer as of the day on which he last worked prior to his leave of absence. Such employee will not have to return to active employment with the employer in order to qualify for a pension or severance award if otherwise eligible for the same. The Pension Plan in effect at the date of the employee's application for retirement shall be the Pension Plan applicable to him.
Application of Section 6.04 (3) is conditional upon the-Pension Plan receiving all necessary approvals from relevant government authorities.
6.05	The probationer shall be a temporary employee for all the time of his probationary period. His employment may be terminated at any time without reference to seniority and in no event shall the employer have an obligation to rehire him or offer him work. It is understood, however, that he has all other applicable rights as contained under this Agreement. In the event of lay-offs, positions held by probationers will be included in the lay-off procedure.
14
6.06	No employee with seniority shall be laid off in a department of the factory before all probationers in the factory are laid off.
6.07	Notwithstanding any provisions that may be contained in this Article to the contrary, no employee shall be assigned or recalled to any classified operation for which he is not then qualified, except where the provisions set forth in Section 6.09 are applicable. The employer may assign or transfer any employee to an operation for a period in which to qualify.
SENIORITY PROVISIONS - ENGINEERING DIVISION
6.08	(1) The employees of the Engineering Division are not included in
the classified and unclassified job seniority system as outlined in Sections 6.09 and 6.11 of this Article. These employees shall be subject to lay-off and recall only within their own division based on qualifications, and their seniority rights shall be determined only in relation to each other in that division under a department seniority system.
(2)	LAY-OFFS from a particular department shall be made according
to department seniority, provided that if the employee whose work has been terminated has had previous satisfactory experience of three months of actual work on another operation in the same department, he may displace the employee on that operation with less department seniority than himself; any employee so displaced and who has had previous satisfactory experience of three months of actual work on another operation in the same department shall have the same privilege as the employee above, whose work has been terminated, until the lay-off procedure reaches the employee with the least department seniority in the department; said employee with	the least department seniority in the
department shall be laid off from factory employment.
(3)	RECALLS to a department will be made in the reverse order of
lay-off provided the employee recalled is qualified to fill the vacancy.
(4)	An employee of the Engineering Division may request a
transfer from the Engineering Division to a production department, and an employee of the production department may request a transfer to the Engineering Division provided he is qualified.
(5)	If employees of the Engineering Division are being laid off
and there are vacancies in the production departments for which they can qualify they may be offered such jobs until such time as their regular jobs are again available.
(6)	Employees in the Engineering Division who are about to be
laid off that have transferred from production shall be given the opportunity to displace employees in production in accordance with Section 6.09 (1) (c) and (d) using the factory seniority which they held at the time of their transfer from production.
LAY-OFFS
PRODUCTION DEPARTMENTS
15
6.09	When it becomes necessary to lay-off or surplus an employee, the employee with the least seniority on either the classified or unclassified jobs affected will be considered the surplus employee, and he Will have the right to displace other employees with less seniority as follows:
(1)	Employees on Classified Jobs
The surplus employee from a classified job shall:
(a)	Displace the employee with the least seniority on any other classified job in the department on which he has classified job seniority provided his factory seniority is sufficient to displace such employee.
(b)	Displace the employee with the least seniority on any unclassified job in the department on which he is qualified, provided his factory seniority is sufficient to do so, and failing that, shall displace the employee with the least seniority in the unclassified job group in the department, providing his factory seniority is sufficient to displace such employee.
(c)	Displace the employee with the least seniority in the classified group in the factory on which he has classified job seniority, providing his factory seniority is sufficient to displace such employee.
(d)	Displace the employee with the least seniority in the unclassified group in the factory provided that his factory seniority is sufficient to displace such ' employee.
(2)	Employees on Unclassified Jobs
The surplus employee from an unclassified job shall:
(a)	Displace an employee with the least seniority in a classified job on which he has classified job seniority providing his factory seniority is sufficient to displace such employee.
(b)	Displace an employee with the least seniority on any
other unclassified job in the department on which he is qualified, providing that his factory seniority is sufficient to do so, and failing that, shall displace the employee with	the least seniority in the
unclassified job group in the department providing his factory seniority is sufficient to displace such employee.
6
6.10
16
(2)	(cont'd)
(c)	Displace the employee with the least seniority in the
unclassified jobs in the factory, if his factory seniority entitles him to displace such employee. The displaced employee in turn shall be laid off.
(3)	Because of the existing ratio of classified to unclassified
an employee with three or more years of factory seniority who is about to be laid off from the factory may displace an employee with less factory seniority on a classified job on which he has reached the expected earnings level, but on which he has not completed the three months seniority requirement.
It is understood that subsection 6.09 (3) will in no way limit the right of the employer to maintain a competent working force, and failing this, the employees will be laid off.
(4)	When it becomes necessary to reduce the number of employees
in a crew, the employees with the least crew seniority on the job affected shall be considered surplus employees and shall displace others in the crew according to crew seniority as follows and in accordance with Appendix (c).
Regression within crews shall take place as follows:
i) A surplus employee from one group shall displace the employee with the least crew seniority in the group immediately below the group in which he was working, provided his crew seniority is sufficient to do so.
The displaced employee shall have the same privilege in the group below his; until those employees with the least crew seniority have become surplus in the crew.
ii) No employee shall be surplused off a crew while there is an employee with less factory seniority remaining.
In such event, the employee with the least factory seniority shall be surplused from the crew, regardless of his crew position, and will take his place in the factory in accordance with section 6.09. The crew will then progress according to crew seniority to fill said vacated position, and the employee with the greatest factory seniority, initially surplused, will fill the vacancy in the bottom position.
An employee to be laid off for an indefinite period shall be given not less than 5 working days notice of the effective date of lay-off and such employee will be granted pay at his average hourly earnings for such time during the 5 day period that work is not available.
An employee shall give one week's notice of the effective date of his resignation, if possible.
17
REINSTATEMENT AND RECALL PRODUCTION DEPARTMENTS
6.11	(1) In the event of an increase in production resulting in the
recall of former employees, an employee who was placed on other work in the factory from a classified job shall be reinstated on the former classified job on which he worked immediately prior to the date of placement; in order of factory seniority except that if the said employee has worked for six consecutive months on his new job he may retain his new job.
(2)	An employee who was placed on other work in the factory from
an unclassified job shall not be reinstated to his former unclassified job unless he requests it as a transfer as outlined under Section 6.13.
(3)	After all employees have been reinstated or transferred
according to the provisions of subsection 6.11 (1), the balance of the employees in a lay-off status shall be recalled in order of classified job seniority, to fill vacancies in the case of classified jobs and in order of factory seniority to fill vacancies in the case of unclassified jobs. In each case consideration will be given to the physical fitness of the individual for the job, to ensure the safety of himself and others, and a competent working force will be maintained at all times.
(4)	In the event of a vacancy remaining in a classified group
after the procedure in paragraph (3) above has been observed, the employee with the longest factory seniority in the unclassified group in layoff status may be recalled to fill the vacancy if he can qualify.
6.12	Employees who have been transferred to positions outside the bargaining unit and who had at least one year of seniority in the bargaining unit prior to transfer, shall be granted factory seniority equivalent to their continuous employment with the employer upon being transferred back into the bargaining unit; provided such service outside the bargaining unit has been accumulated in the plant covered by this Agreement.
Such employee will take his place in the factory in the following manner:
(1)	He may displace the employee with the least factory seniority on an unclassified job in his previous department, provided his factory seniority at the time of his transfer outside the bargaining unit so entitles him.	'
18
6.12	(cont'd)
(2)	He may displace the employee with the least factory seniority
on an unclassified job in the factory provided his factory seniority at the time of transfer outside the bargaining unit so entitles him.
(3)	An employee who has returned to the bargaining unit under
this section will be permitted to exercise his bumping rights only in accordance with subsection 6.12 (1) or (2) until the expiration of nine months from the date he first returns to the bargaining unit.
6.13	(1) An employee who wishes to transfer from one operation to
another shall lodge a written request with his foreman, and if the employee requests work in another department the foreman will deliver the reguest to the Personnel Department, which shall keep a list of all requests.
(2)	Written requests for transfer to another department will be
valid for a six month period only, unless renewed by the employee making the request. At the end of the six month period the Personnel Department will return the transfer request form to the employee for renewal. No employee shall be allowed to have in force more than one request for transfer at one time. All requests for transfer must state the specific department to which the employee wishes to be transferred.	Each application for transfer will
automatically cancel any previous application made by the same employee.
(3)	When a vacancy occurs, the vacancy will be posted seventy-two
hours (exclusive of Saturday, Sunday or holidays) before ' being filled.	The employee with the longest factory
seniority, on the list of applicants to transfer who can qualify, shall be given the first opportunity to transfer, except where an employee in a laid off status from that operation has more seniority than the applicant for transfer. The vacancy created by the filling of the original vacancy will be posted and filled as outlined in this subsection.
(4)	All subsequent vacancies created by the filling of the
vacancy in subsection (3) will be filled from the list of applicants in subsection (1) before employees may be brought
in.
(5)	Whenever a vacancy occurs in the plant and all transfers within the plant have been made in accordance with subsection 2 & 3 the employee with the longest factory seniority on the list of applicants filed in the personnel dept, in accordance with subsection 2, who has reguested work on that operation, and who can qualify, shall be given the first opportunity to transfer, except where an employee in a laid-off status from that operation, has more seniority than the applicant for transfer.
19
6.13 (cont'd)
(6)	If the employee fails to qualify on the new operation after
the usual learning period, he may return to his previous department, providing a vacancy exists. If there is no vacancy in his previous department he may displace the employee with the least factory seniority in the unclassified job group in the department provided his factory seniority is sufficient to displace such employee. Failing that, he shall displace the employee with the least factory seniority in the unclassified job group in the factory provided his factory seniority is sufficient to displace such employee.
(7) When an employee is transferred, he shall be paid in
accordance with the wage rate provided for in Section 5.03, and he shall accept the prevailing wage rate scale of the operation to which he has transferred, unless the employee's experience warrants a higher rate.
(8)	An employee, who has been transferred under the provisions of
Section 6.13 will not be permitted to file another application for transfer until the expiration of twelve months.
(9)	Whenever vacancies occur in a crew or when new crews are
formed the crew or crews shall progress as follows:
(a)	The employee with the longest crew seniority in the group below that in which the vacancy occurs, will advance to the vacancy provided he wishes to do so and can qualify.
(b)	The employee with the longest crew seniority in the next lowest group will advance to the position vacated through the progression above, and so on until the bottom position on the crew becomes vacant.
(c)	This position shall be filled through the transfer system.
(d)	This system of progression and regression will not change the status of crews as of this date but will be used for the purpose of progression and regression from this date forward.
6.14	An employee shall have the right to examine his seniority records at any time in the Personnel Department. A seniority list shall be posted in each department showing the names of all the employees in said department. This list will be revised by the employer at regular intervals of approximately six months, and each revision will be posted in the department concerned as soon as possible thereafter. The union shall be given a copy of the seniority list after each such revision.
6.15
6.16
6.17
6.18
6.19
7.01
20
For the purpose of this Article, a list of all departments of the factory and classified and unclassified jobs shall be given by the employer to the union once per year.
The union acknowledges that in the administration of Article 6 it will be necessary for the employer to maintain at all times a competent and trained working force.
An employee who suffers serious injury or impairment from Goodyear employment or war service which results in permanent disability, or an employee with five or more years of continuous service who is unable to continue working on his own operation but is capable of handling lighter work, may be assigned to and/or retained at work in the discretion of the employer, notwithstanding the provisions of this Article.
An employee who wishes a leave of absence for personal reasons shall make written application to the Personnel Department, setting out the reason for his request. If granted, such leave shall be in writing and a copy will be given to the union Secretary. Leave of absence will not be granted for selfemployment or for employment elsewhere. The employee must return to work on the date indicated in the letter of authorisation and he will be placed on his previous job provided that he is able to perform the work. The employee will be credited with service and seniority during the period while he is on leave of absence up to a maximum of two months. Welfare benefits, exclusive of weekly indemnity, will be continued during the period of leave of absence up to a maximum of two months.
If any manufacturing or operating method is permanently eliminated or modernized, causing the lay-off of employees, the employees so affected at the time, will be transferred to vacancies for which ■ they can qualify, or if not such vacancies exist, they may displace employees with less factory seniority on work in the unclassified job group for which they can qualify within the usual learning period of the operation, and shall be paid in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.03.
Such an employee affected by the lay-off, may choose to exercise his rights under Section 6.09.
ARTICLE 7
DESIGNATED HOLIDAYS
A holiday is deemed to begin at the start of the first shift of the day of the holiday. When a holiday occurs it may be necessary for some employees to work after the start of the first shift to complete work in progress or to close down properly for the holiday. In departments where a seven day schedule is required and/or in maintenance departments, the minimum number of employees necessary to keep the factory in operating condition shall work on the holiday. From time to time emergencies may arise which will make it necessary for certain employees to work on a holiday in order that other employees will not suffer loss of time.
21
7.02	(a) Employees who qualify will be paid an amount equal to one standard
shift for each of the following designated holidays:
New Year's Day Good Friday Victoria Day Canada Day Labour Day Thanksgiving Day Christmas Day Civic Holiday Remembrance Day Family Day/ as designated
and two other holidays which will be mutally agreed upon by the Company and the Union before April 1st of the year in which the holidays occur.
(b)	If a designated holiday falls on a Saturday or Sunday it shall
be observed on the preceding Friday or the following Monday, or another date mutually agreed to by the Company and the Union.
(c)	In any year in which the Civic Holiday falls during a plant
vacation shutdown period, the Monday following the vacation shutdown period will be observed as Civic Holiday, or another date mutually agreed to by the Company and the Union.
7.03	In order to qualify, an employee must be on the payroll and must hav worked the last scheduled shift before the holiday and the first scheduled shift after the holiday. In a case where there are circumstances beyond the employee's control and the employee could have worked if the factory had operated, payment for a holiday may be made upon recommendation of the employee's Department Foreman, the Personnel Manager and approved by the Plant Manager. Subject to the above, an employee who is absent because of sickness or accident evidenced by a doctor's certificate and limited to a thirty day period exclusive of Saturday and Sunday, which period includes such designated holiday, shall receive holiday pay. There shall be deducted from such pay any payments which the employee received as the result of such illness.
7.04	Payment for designated holidays shall be calculated as follows:
All employees shall be paid eight hours multiplied by their job rates.
7.05	An employee who is required to work on a designated holiday, shall be paid double time for time worked in addition to his holiday pay.
7.06	An employee shall receive holiday pay for a holiday that occurs either during his regular vacation or the day before or the day after his regular vacation period provided that the said employee actually works on his last regularly scheduled shift prior to and on his first regularly scheduled shift following his vacation period and such holiday.
22
l.''''	(cont'd)
In a case where an employee is absent on his regular scheduled shift before or his frist regular scheduled shift after such holiday and vacation and such absence is excused, payment for the holiday may be made upon a recommendation as outlined in Section 7.03.
Subject to the above, an employee who is absent because of sickness or accident evidenced by a doctor's certificate and limited to a thirty day period exclusive of Saturday and Sunday, which period includes such designated holiday, shall receive holiday pay for a holiday that occurs either during his regular vacation or on the day before or the day after his regular vacation period. There shall be deducted from such pay any payments which the employees receives as the result of such illness.
7.07	An employee who is laid off within a period of five working days immediately preceding a holiday and who actually performed his assigned work on the day of lay-off shall be entitled to receive holiday pay for such holiday.
ARTICLE 8 VACATIONS
8.01	For the purpose of computing vacation and vacation pay, the vacation year will be the calendar year.
8.02	(1) An employee with less than one year of continuous service as
of December 31 of the previous calendar year shall be granted one day of vacation for each complete month worked during the previous vacation year.
(2)	An employee with one year but less than five years of continuous
service as of December 31 of the previous year shall be granted two weeks of vacation.
(3)	An employee with five years or more but less than twelve years
of continuous service as of December 31 of the previous year shall be granted three weeks of vacation.
(4)	An employee with twelve years or more but less than twenty
years of continuous service as of December 31 of the previous year shall be granted four weeks of vacation.
(5)	An employee with twenty years or more but less than twenty five
years of service as of December 31 of the previous year shall be granted five weeks of vacation.
23
8.02 (cont'd)
(6)	An employee with twenty five years or more of continuous service as of December 31 of the previous year shall be granted six weeks of vacation.
8.03	(1) An employee entitled to a vacation as outlined in Subsection
8.02	(1) and (2) will receive vacation pay equal to four percent of the actual earnings received by him during the previous calendar year.
(2) An employee entitled to a vacation as outlined in Subsection
8.02	(3) will receive vacation pay equal to six percent of the actual earnings received by him during the previous calendar year.
(3) An employee entitled to a vacation as outlined in Subsection
8.02	(4) will receive vacation pay equal to eight percent of the actual earnings received by him during the previous calendar year.
(4)	An	employee entitled	to a	vacation as outlined	in	Subsection
8.02	(5) will receive	pay	equal to ten percent	of	the actual
earnings received by him during the previous calendar year.
(5)	An	employee who completes	five years of continuous	service on
or	before December 24	in the current year shall	be	granted in
the same current year a third week of vacation on him completion of five years of continuous service in addition to the two weeks of vacation he has already been granted for his previous calendar year of service and will receive as vacation pay for that third week of vacation two percent of his earnings in the previous calendar year.
An employee who completes five years of continuous service after December 24 in the current year shall be granted vacation for the remaining days of the year with pay for his remaining regularly scheduled days of work.
(6)	An employee who completes twelve years of continuous service on or before December 24 in the current year shall be granted in the same current year a fourth week of vacation on his completion of twelve years of continuous service in addition to the three weeks of vacation he already been granted for his previous calendar year of service and will receive as vacation pay for that fourth week of vacation two percent of his earnings in the previous calendar year.
An employee who completes twelve years of continuous service after December 24 in the current year shall be granted vacation for the remaining days of the year with pay for his remaining regularly scheduled days of work.
24
8.03 (cont'd)
(7)	An employee who completes twenty years of continuous service
on or before December 24 in the current year shall be granted in the same current year a fifth week of vacation on his completion of twenty years of continuous service in addition to the four weeks of vacation he has already been granted for his previous calendar year of service and will receive as vacation pay for that fifth week of vacation on two percent of his earnings in the previous calendar year.
An employee who completes twenty years of continuous service after December 24 in the current year shall be granted vacation for the remaining days of the year with pay for his remaining regularly scheduled days of work.
(8)	An employee who completes twenty five years of continuous
service on or before December 24 in the current year shall be granted in the same current year a sixth week of vacation on his completion of twenty five years of continuous service in addition to the five weeks of vacation he has already been granted for his previous calendar year of service and will receive as vacation pay for that sixth week of vacation two percent of his earnings in the previous calendar year.
An employee who completes twenty five years of continuous service after December 24 in the current year shall be granted vacation for the remaining days of the year with pay for his remaining regularly scheduled days of work.
(9)	In computing the actual earnings for vacation pay, the
following items shall be included:	actual wages earned
(including bonuses and overtime payment) vacation pay for the 1
previous year, Workers Compensation payments for lost time, Alberta Health Care premiums which are paid by the employer on behalf of the employee, short work week benefits paid under the Supplemental Unemployment Benefit plan and weekly indemnity payments paid under the Health and Life Insurance Agreement.
(10)	When an employee has been unable to work during a portion of
the preceding calendar year owing to sickness or injury not covered by the Workmen's Compensation Act, and for this reason only the vacation pay is less than the minimum mentioned below, the vacation pay shall be increased to a minimum o f $225.00 per week, provided that said employee must have worked during some portion of the preceding calendar year and have resumed his normal duties not less than one month before vacation is granted
25
8.03	(cont'd)
(11)	An employee with seniority who leaves the employ of the employer for any reason or who dies during his employment, if he has had vacation or pay in lieu of vacation in the current year, shall be entitled to receive or in the case of death his estate shall be entitled to receive four percent of his earnings in the current year if he has completed one year or more but less than five years of continuous service at the date he leaves the employ of the employer or dies, or six percent of his earnings in the current year if he has completed five years or more but less than twelve years of continuous service at the date he leaves the employ of the employer dies, or eight percent of his earnings in the current year if he has completed twelve years or more but less than twenty years, of continuous service at the date he leaves the employ of the employer or dies, or ten percent of his earnings in the current year if he has completed twenty years or more of continuous service at the date he leaves the employ of the employer or dies.
(12)	An employee with seniority who leaves the employ of the employer for any reason or who dies during his employment, if he has not had his vacation or pay in lieu of vacation in the current year shall be entitled to receive or in the case of death his estate shall be entitled to receive such vacation pay in lieu of vacation plus the same applicable percentage of his current year's earnings calculated in accordance with the provisions of Subsection 8.03 (10) and based on his length of continuous service with the employer.
8.04	Vacations may be taken at any time during the calendar year, at . such time as may be most convenient to the employer, but every effort shall be made to schedule vacations at times suitable to the employee. However, the final right to allot vacations is reserved by the employer so that orderly operation of the plant is assured.
8.05	(1) An employee is not entitled, under any conditions, to more
than six weeks vacation with pay.
(2) Vacations are not cumulative, and they cannot be deffered until the following year.
ARTICLE 9 UNION SECURITY
9.01 Any employee, who is a member of the union in good standing on the effective date of this Agreement, shall maintain his membership in the union as a condition of his continued employment for the duration of this Collective Agreement to the extent of paying union dues, in accordance with the constitution of the U.R.C.L. & P.W.A. as determined by the local union and uniformly required of all members of the union as a condition of acquiring or retaining membership therein.
9.02
9.03
9.04
9.05
26
Any person hired on or after the effective day of this Agreement or transferred therein after such effective date shall make application for union membership and shall as a condition of his continued employment maintain his union membership on the same terms and to the same extent as provided in subsection 9.01
All present employees and all new employees, including employees transferred into the bargaining unit shall have their membership dues deducted from their earnings, or from any benefits paid under the Supplemental Unemployment Benefits Plan, whichever, is applicable, by signing the dues authorization and deduction forms provided in Section 9.04.
The employer will deduct the authorized union dues and assessments from the first pay received in each month of each employee from whom the Payroll Department has received, or may receive during the life of this Agreement, a dues authorization and deduction form in the following form:
Date______________________ 19_______
"Effective as of this date, I hereby authorize Goodyear Canada Inc. to deduct from wages due me and the Trustee of the S.U.B. Fund to deduct from any benefits paid to me under the Supplemental Unemployment Benefits Plan, current monthly union dues and any unpaid regular monthly dues, initiation fee, rejoining fee (if any) and general assessments which are established by Local Union 628, and to be deducted in accordance with the Collective Agreement, the amount of which deductions shall have been notified by the union to the employer from time to time. Said dues to be remitted by the employer to the Treasurer of Local 628, U.R.C.L. & P.W.A.
This assignment and authorization shall be irrevocable in accordance with the provisions of Article 9 of the Collective Agreement between the- union and the employer and I acknowledge that I understand the provisions of Article 9 thereof."
Signature of Member
Street Address
Town	Telephone
Clock Card No. _________________________ Dept. No.
An authorization for the deduction of union dues shall be signed in triplicate by the employee concerned. One copy shall be given to the employee who authorized the deduction, one copy shall be given to a representative of the local union, and one copy will be retained by the Personnel Department of the employer.
u
9.06	The deduction shall be made from the first day due to the employee in each calendar month. When remitting the union dues deducted to the Treasurer of the local union each month, the employer will furnish the following information:
(a)	The name and clock card number and the amount deducted from
each employee.
(b)	The name and clock card number of any employee from whom no
deduction has been made, together with the reason if such employee has signed a deduction authorization card.
(c)	The name and clock card number of any employee who has left
the employ of the employer since the last report, if such employee has signed a deduction authorization card.
9.07	The assignments and authorizations once executed shall be irrevocable for the duration of this Collective Agreement or any renewal thereof, provided that if the termination of this Agreement or any renewal thereof is followed by the execution of a new Agreement, there assignments and authorizations shall be deemed to be automatically renewed for the duration of each new Agreement.
9.08	The Union shall indemnify and save the employer and/or the Trustee of the S.U.B. Fund harmless from any claims, suits, judgements, attachments and from any other form of liability as a result of the employer and/or the Trustee of the S.U.B. Fund making deductions in accordance with the foregoing authorizations and assignments, and the union will make refunds directly to all employees from whom a wrongful deduction has been made.
ARTICLE 10
GRIEVANCE AND ARBITRATION PROCEDURE
10.01	It is the mutual desire of the parties hereto that complaints of
employees shall be adjusted as quickly as possible, and any dispute or complaint between the employee and the employer shall be dealt with as provided hereunder.
10.02	It is agreed that any employee does not have a grievance until he
or his steward has discussed the complaint with his supervisor.
10.03	If such complaint is not settled to the satisfaction of the
employee concerned the employee shall state the complaint in writing, and when signed by him and presented to the steward of his department, such complaint shall be considered to be a grievance and subject to the following steps of the Grievance Procedure:
28
10.03 (cont'd)
Step 1
The grievance may be discussed by the steward and/or a union representative with the Production Manager of the division in which the grievance occurred. A decision will be rendered in writing by the Production Manager within a period of one day if possible.
Step 2
If no satisfactory solution is reached at Step 1 of this procedure, the grievance may be discussed by the steward and/or a union	representative with the Production Manager	and the
Industrial Relations Manager of the employer. a decision will be rendered in writing by these parties within a period of three days if possible.
Step 3
If no satisfactory solution is reached at Step 2 of this procedure the grievance may be discussed by the Bargaining Committee of the union and representatives of the employer designated for this purpose within a period of not more than five working days following a decision at Step 2 of this procedure. A decision will be furnished in writing by the Industrial Relations Manager to the President of the union not later than five working days following the commencement of the discussion in Step 3 if possible.
Step
If no satisfactory solution is reached at Step 3 of this procedure, the grievance may be discussed by the Bargaining Committee of the union and a representative of the International ' union, and representatives of the employer designated for this purpose within a period of not more than five working days after the receipt by the union of the decision in Step 3.
The Company undertakes to reply, in writing, to the Local Union within five working days following a Step IV grievance meeting as outlined in Section 10.03 of the Collective Labour Agreement.
The date of receipt of such letter will constitute the completion of discussion at the Step IV meeting.
Step 5
If a grievance has not been settled at Step 4, and if the grievance is one which concerns the application, administration, interpretation of alleged violation of the Agreement, it may be referred to a Board of Arbitration by either party.	No*-'4-0-0 in
writing of such reference to a Board of Arbitration must be given to the other party within thirty-five working days of the completion of discussion in Step 4. Failing such notice the grievance will be deemed to have been abandoned.
29
10.04	It is agreed that:
The aggrieved employees shall be at liberty, and may be required by either party, to appear in person at any step of the procedure set forth above.
10.05	Each party will, within three days of the notice referred to in
Step 5, nominate a person to represent it on the Board of Arbitration and notify the other party of the name of such person; the two persons so nominated will forthwith appoint a third person
to act as Chairman of the Board of Arbitration. If they are unable to agree upon a chairman within forty-eight hours after receipt of notice of their appointment, they will jointly request the Minister of Labour of the Province of Alberta to appoint a Chairman. In an arbitration case involving rates, the Chairman shall be a competent Industrial Engineer.
10.06	Such Chairman together with the two nominees mentioned above shall
constitute the Board of Arbitration, and shall meet promptly to hear and consider the grievance with all reasonable dispatch. The decision of the majority of the Board made in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement, shall be final and binding on the employer, the union, and the employee or employees concerned.
10.07	Each of the parties will bear the expense of the Arbitrator
nominated by it; the parties will jointly bear the expense of the Chairman of the Board.
10.08	The Board of Arbitration shall, wherever possible, endeavour to
render its decision within thirty days of the conclusion of the hearing of the dispute; provided that failure of the Board to render its decision within the time limit specified shall not deprive it of jurisdiction or vitiate any award that may be made.
10.09	The Board of Arbitration shall not have any power to alter or
change any of the provisions of this Collective Agreement, or to substitute any new provision for any existing provision, or to give any decision inconsistent with the terms and provisions of this Collective Agreement.
10.10	(1) Any or all of the time limits set forth above may be extended
by mutual agreement.
(2)	Upon mutual agreement of the parties a single arbitrator may be substituted for the Board of Arbitration provided for in Article 10 and in case of such substitution all other applicable provisions of Article 10 will continue to apply so far as they are relevant.
10.11	Any dispute between the employer and the union as to the inter-
pretation of this Collective Agreement and any allegation b) either party that the other has violated any term of this Collection Agreement shall be deemed to be a grievance when notice in writing thereof has been delivered by the party considering itself aggrieved, to the other party. Such grievance shall be
presented at Step 3 of the grievance and arbitration procedures as set forth in this Article.
DISCHARGE CASES
30
10.12	(1) An employee with seniority who claims to have been discharged or
suspended unjustly, may file a claims in writing with the Personnel Manager within five working days of ceasing to work, stating that he has been unjustly discharged or suspended.
(2) The employer will undertake to advise in writing, a Union Official within twenty-four hours, the name and department of an employee who is suspended or discharged.
10.13	All such cases will be handled at Step 3 of the Grievance
Procedure within three working days of the receipt of the claim from the employee who has been discharged or suspended. If no satisfactory solution is reached as a result of the application of Step 3 and 4 of the Grievance Procedure, the dispute shall be subject to arbitration in accordance with the provisions of Article 10.
10.14	If it is decided that the employee was unjustly discharged or
suspended he shall be reinstated, and he shall be compensated at his regular rate of pay for time lost, subject to the provisions hereinafter provided.
10.15	The Board of Arbitration will have the right to increase or
decrease the penalty if they feel the circumstances justify such action, and will have authority to determine the amount of pay, if any, the employee is to receive for the period of his discharge or suspension if he is subsequently reinstated.
10.16	In calculating the amount of pay the employee is to receive if
reinstated, the Board of Arbitration shall deduct therefrom any monies earned by the employee from other employment and any • Unemployment Insurance benefits received by the employees during the period of his suspension or discharge and retained by him.
10.17	(1) An employee will be given a copy of any notation concerning
his misconduct or inefficiency at the time it is placed in his personal record. A copy of every notation will be forwarded to the Secretary of the union by the Industrial Relations Manager of the employer.
(2)	Notations reporting offences, exclusive of the violation of
the no-strike provisions in the Agreement, not repeated within a one year period will be disregarded in the administration of discipline.
(3)	Notations reporting offences involving violation of the
no-strike provisions in the Agreement not repeated within a three year period will be disregarded in the administration of discipline.
(4)	An employee when called into the office for reprimands will,
upon request, have the right to have a union steward with him.
11.01
11.02
11.03
11.04
11.05
11.06 11.07
31
The employer will provide reasonable protective devices and other equipment necessary to protect employees from injury and sickness. The union agrees to co-operate with the employer in the use of these devices and in the elimination of industrial accidents.
A Plant Health & Safety Committee shall be maintained as presently constituted, consisting of not more than four members representing the employer and not more than four members representing the local union. The function of the committee is to facilitate the promotion of safe work practices and accident prevention in the plant.
The committee shall meet not less than once per month in order to discuss safety problems. The Committee's function will include a periodic tour of a section of the factory to observe and report on unsafe conditions or procedures. The committee will make recommendations concerning safety in the factory with the status of any recommendation made to be reviewed at each meeting. The committee should periodically verify that adopted recommendations are being complied with.
Each employee shall use reasonable care for the cleanliness of his machine and the immediate working area.
The employer agrees to permit the union to post notices of meetings and other union business or affairs on bulletin boards throughout the factory provided for such purposes; it is agreed, however, that such notices shall be approved by the Personnel Manager and posted by members of the employer's Personnel Department.
A Bargaining Committee consisting of three members, all of whom shall be regular employees of the employer and eighteen years of ' age or over, shall be selected by the employees who are members of the union, in a manner determined by the union. The employer shall be informed by the union, in writing, of the personnel of the Committee and of any changes which may occur from time to time.
The union recognizes the need for improved methods and agrees to co-operate with the employer in suggesting and introducing such methods and in educating its members in the need of such changes and improvements; the employer and the union agree that, consistent with fair and reasonable labour practices, it is desirable to maintain the best productivity possible.
The union pledges that it will co-operate with the employer in an effort for the highest quality of product.
(1) The Membership of the Production Squadron Training Croup shall not exceed four percent of the employees in the bargaining unit. Regular employees shall not be sent home and replaced by Production Squadron trainees.
32
11.07	(cont'd)
(2) Employees recruited from the bargaining unit for the Production Squadron training program and who fail to meet accepted training standards at any time during the course, will be transferred back the bargaining unit with their total service credited to them.
11.08 The union shall have the right to select not more than one steward
for every fifteen employees on the seniority list, a list of stewards shall be furnished to the employer before the employer is required to recognize them.
11.09	The following shall be covered by separate Agreements:
(a)	Health and Life Insurance Agreement
(b)	Pension Plan and Severance Award Agreement
(c)	Supplemental Unemployment Benefits Agreement
(d)	Separation Plan Agreement
(e)	Apprenticeship Agreement
11.10	The letters of understanding, the interim wage increase provisions, the agreement on the 6-2/3 day, four (A) crew work schedule, the agreement on the Compressed Work Schedule 12-hour shifts and the Conversion to Daywork Agreement are attached hereto, and form part of this agreement.
ARTICLE 12
DURATION OF COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
12.01	The agreement shall be effective on the ^thirteenth day of February, 1990, and shall remain in effect until the L2th_day of February, 1993 , and thereafter from year to year unless either party gives to" the other party notice- in writing of cancellation or of proposals for revision within a period of not less than two months or more than three months prior to the Anniversary date.
12.02	(1) If either party gives to the other a notice of cancellation
in accordance with the provisions of Section 12.01, this Collective Agreement shall terminate in accordance with such notice.
(2) If either party gives to the other a notice of proposals for revision in accordance with the provisions of Section 12.01, the parties shall meet to consider the proposed revisions within fifteen days of the date of delivery of such notice. If no agreement on the proposed revisions is reached by midnight of February 12, 1993, or by midnight of any other subsequent anniversary date, as thecase may be, this Collective Agreement shall be continued in operation for a period not exceeding one year less one day until a new Agreement is reached or until the procedure contemplated by Section 94 of the Alberta Labour Act has been completed.
33
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto have executed this Agreement this ____________________ day of _________________________, 1990.
LOCAL UNION 628 OF THE UNITED RUBBER, CORK, LINOLEUM AND
PLASTIC WORKERS OF AMERICA	GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
34
APPENDIX A JOB RATES
JOB RATES EFFECTIVE FEBRUARY 13/90
Department 4541
Operator B.C.	15.93
B.C. Roll Changer	15.38
Band Builder 65" Unit	15.62
Assist. Band Builder 65" Unit	15.31
Department 4542
Flip Beads
Insulate, Build & Wrap Beads Department 4543
Operator-Tuber
Tuber Millman
Tuber Helpers
Cushion Appliers/Skiver
Department 4550 - 4551
Level 1 - 23%
Level 2 - 15%
Level 3 - 10%
Service Tire Builders Repair Green Tires Inspect Green Tires
Build Tractor Tires (FM Machine) - Level 1, 2, 3 Department 4560 - 4561
15.55
15.09
15.92
15.44
15.19
15.29
16.23
15.39
14.87
14.08
13.86
13.99
Line Green Tires Cure Passenger Tire & Post Cure Inflate - A & D Line Cure Tractor Tires, Service Tractor Tires & Service Presses Mold Men (No Ticket)
Mold Men (Ticket)
Department 4570
Inspect & Trim Passenger Tires Trim Tires
Buff & Decorate WSW's Repair Tires Balance Tires
Department 4585
Salvage & Reclassify Stock Re-roll & Repair Stock
Above include $.07 inequity increase
13.97
14.67
14.67 15.85 15.90
14.67
13.89
15.21
13.99
13.86
14.03 13.95
February 13, 1990 and $.10 silent COLA
35
APPENDIX A - JOB RATES, Cont'd
JOB RATES EFFECTIVE FEBRUARY 13/90
Department 4026
Janitor Watchmen
Departments 4321, 4390 - Service
Receiving & Shipping
Servicing - Receiving & Shipping
Stores
Receiving, Shipping & Unload Box Cars Shipper/Tractor Driver
Department 4102 - Technical Service
13.93
13.98
13.98 14.02
13.98 14.41
Chemical Lab	14.52
Mill Room Lab	14.09
Department 4216 - Engineering Division
4th Class Engineer (Shift) 3rd Class Engineer (Chief)
Department 4211
Maintenance (Ticket) Maintenance (No Ticket) Electrician (Ticket)
Oilers (Ticket)
Oilers (No Ticket)
Department 4432
Operator Banbury Banbury Compounding Conveyor & Mill Operator Laydown at B.B.
Banbury Service Man
Department 4433
Operator Calender Calender Millman Calender Helper Re-roll Liners
Department 4437
Cement House
16.85
17.35
16.80
16.75
16.85
14.99
14.94
16.02
15.47
15.47 15.30 15.06
16.23 * 15.71 * 15.62 * 13.82 *
14.03
*Above rates add $.25 for fabric operation code 80010
36
^DENDIX A, Cont'd
COLLECTIVE LABOUR AGREEMENT
WAGES:
Effective February 13, 1990:
Inequity increase to all employees .............
Silent C.O.L.A. payment of .....................
Advanced C.O.L.A. payment of ...................
Payment of advanced C.O.L.A. Schedule May, 1980
Effective February 13, 1991:
Advanced C.O.L.A. payment of ...................
Payment of advanced C.O.L.A. schedule May, 1991
Effective February 13, 1992:
Advanced C.O.L.A. payment of ...................
Payment of advanced C.O.L.A. schedule May, 1992 . . .
$0.07/hr $0.10/hr $0.10/hr $0.10/hr
$0.10/hr $0.10/hr
$0.10/hr $0.10/hr
37
APPENDIX B
INTERIM WAGE INCREASES
1.	The amount of interim increase shall be calculated and recalculated as
provided below on the basis of the Consumer Price Index published by
Statistics Canada (1971 = 100) and hereinafter referred to as the C.P.I,
2.	First Year of Agreement
(a)	"The base for calculation" -- the average C.P.I. for the months of December, 1989, January, 1990, and February, 1990.
(b)	The first adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay period commencing on May 27, 1990. It will reflect one cent (1<?) per hour for each full .26 points that the average C.P.I. for the months of February, 1990, March, 1990 and April, 1990, exceeds the base for calculation.
(c)	A second adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay period commencing on August 26, 1990. It will reflect one cent (1C) per hour for each full .26 points that the average C.P.I. for the months of May, 1990, June, 1990, and July, 1990, exceeds the base for calculation.
(d)	A third adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay period commencing on November 25, 1990. It will reflect one cent (1C) per hour for each full .26 points that the average C.P.I. for the months of August, 1990, September, 1990, and October, 1990, exceeds the base for calculation.
(e)	A fourth adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay period commencing on February 24, 1991. It will reflect one cent (U) per hour for each .26 points that the average C.P.I. for the months of November, 1990, December, 1990, and January, 1991, exceeds the base for calculation.
3.	The Second Year of Agreement
(a)	"The base for calculation" -- the average C.P.I. for the months of December, 1990, January, 1991, and February, 1991.
(b)	The first adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay period commencing on May 26, 1991. It will reflect one cent (1$) per hour for each full .26 poitns that the average C.P.I. for the months of February, 1991, March, 1991, and April, 1991, exceeds the base for calculation.
(c)	A second adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay period commencing on August 25, 1991. It will reflect one cent (lb) per hour for each full .26 points that the average C.P.I. for the months of May, 1991, June, 1991, and July, 1991, exceeds the base for calculation.
(d)	A third adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay period commencing on November 24, 1991. It will reflect one
cent (1C) per hour for each full .26 points that the average C.P.I for the months of August, 1991, September, 1991, and October,
1991, exceeds the base for calculation.
38
(e)	A fourth adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay period commencing on February 23, 1992. It will reflect one cent (1C) per hour for each .26 points that the average C.P.I. for the months of November, 1991, December, 1991, and January, 1992, exceeds the base for calculation.
4.	The Third Year of Agreement
(a)	"The base for calculation" -- the average C.P.I. for the months of December, 1991, January, 1992, and February, 1992.
(b)	The first adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay
period commencing	on May 24, 1992. It	will	reflect one	cent
do) per hour for	each full	.26	points	that	the average	C.P.I.
for the months of February, 1992, March, 1992, and April, 1992, exceeds the base for calculation.
(c)	A second adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay
period commencing	on August	23,	1992.	It will reflect	one cent
do) per hour for	each full	.26	points	that	the average	C.P.I.
for the months of May, 1992, June, 1992, and July, 1992, exceeds the base for calculation.
(d)	A third adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay period commencing on November 22, 1992. It will reflect one cent do) per hour for each full .26 points that the average C.P.I. for the months of August, 1992, September, 1992, and October,
1992, exceeds the base for calculation.
5.	The interim increase will be considered as earnings but will be boxed separately from other wages payments on the employee's time card.
6.	In the event Statistics Canada does not issue the appropriate Consumer Price Index on or before the date on which an adjustment is to be calculated, any adjustment required will be made at the beginning of the first pay period following receipt of the index.
7.	No adjustments, retroactive or otherwise, shall be made due to any revision which may later be made in any published Consumer Price Index by Statistics Canada.
8. Continuation of the interim adjustments is dependent upon the availability of the official Statistics Canada Consumer's Price Index calculated on the same basis and in the same form as that published for February, 1990.
9.	Each adjustment specified in the interim wage increase formula will replace the previous adjustment, if any. In its entirety except the fourth adjustment in the first year of the Agreement will be carried over throughout the second and third years of the Agreement and the fourth adjustment in the second year of the Agreement will be carried over throughout the second and third years of the Agreement and the fourth adjustment in the second year of the Agreement will be carried throughout the third year of the agreement.
39
APPENDIX C
CREW PROGRESSIONS AND REGRESSION
Crew Progressions and Regression will be applied to the following crews and order of progression on each unit will be as follows:
Banbury
1.	Operator
2.	Compounders
3.	Miliman
4.	Laydown
Calender
1.	Operator
2.	Miliman
3.	Helper - Split & Weigh
4.	Helper - Roll Changer
5.	Helper - Fabric Run Only
Bias Cutter
1.	Operator
2.	Roll Changer
The two compounders on the banbury seniority as both men do same job
Tuber
1.	Runner
2.	Assistant Runner Millman
3.	Millman
4.	Cushion Applier/Skiver
5.	Helper-Cementer
6.	Helper-Booker
Bead Unit
1.	Insulate beads
2.	Wrap and flip beads
65" Band Unit
1.	Band Builder
2.	Assistant Band Builder
ill progress or regress based on crew y about.
When a condition occurs where more than 50Z of the total job positions in any single status are filled by employees who cannot qualify for advancement or who wish to advance, the company reserves the right in all , cases to make the final decision on whether to remove the employee with the least crew seniority of the non-progressive employees from his status. The employee so affected will revert to the next lower position with in the crew to enable other employees who are willing to progress to do so.
In order that training needs may be filled, employees will be rotated at the discretion of the Division Foreman. This training program will not change the employee's priority to any vacancy which may occur while he is involved in the training rotation.
Crew seniority does not apply however, to make-up crews which may be required to operate more than one unit. Crews required to operate more than one unit shall accumulate crew seniority on their regular units only.
Crew seniority will not apply in temporary emergency situations. However, normal crew Progression and Regression will be followed, if possible, and providing a competent working force can be maintained at all times. For normal vacation purposes, when an employee is on his regular scheduled vacation, progressions will be followed within the absent employee's crew only.
An employee shall not same crew or crews for
attain crew seniority until he.has worked .in the three cumulative months m any 24 month period.
40
APPENDIX D
APPENDIX TO COLLECTIVE LABOUR AGREEMENT 6 2/3 DAY, FOUR (4) CREW WORK SCHEDULE
The Agreement is made and entered into as of the 13th day of February, 1990, between Goodyear Canada Inc., with respect to its employees at its Medicine Hat plant and Warehouse located at 1271 12th Street, N.W., hereinafter referred to as the "employer" and Local Union 628 of the Uniter Rubber, Cork, Linoleum and Plastic Workers of America, hereinafter referred to as the "Union".
It is understood and agreed that in order to make full use of the Medicine Hat plant, the employer may schedule any operations including warehouse operations, as required on the 6 2/3 day, four (4) crew work schedule, as per Attachment A.
When it becomes necessary for the employer to schedule one or more of the plant's operations on the 6 2/3 day work schedule, a fourth crew will be instituted and a shift schedule will be adopted which would schedule each employee to work a regular schedule of fourty hours per week.
In order to attain equitable and effective practices for initial transition to the scheduling of operations on to the 6 2/3 day schedule, a joint committee made up of three representative of the Local Union and three representatives of the employer will be established. The function of this committee will be to review and recommend practices for the transfer of personnel to the operations affected in keeping with the principles established in Article 6 of the Collective Labour Agreement and to attempt to resolve problems as they arise in relation to the implementation of the 6 2/3 day work schedule.
The employer undertakes to provide the Local Union with a minimum notification of one month prior to the scheduling of the 62/3 day schedule. The employer further undertakes that upon implementation of a 62/3 schedule reasonable efforts will be made to ensure continuity of the schedule.
The terms and conditions of the Collective Labour Agreement will apply to all employees who are scheduled on the 62/3 day work schedule with the following exceptions:
1.	In reference to Section 4.01, as per attachment A for employees on the 6 2/3 day work schedule, the regular weekly schedule is a five day, 40 hour week within a period from the start of the night shift Monday to the end of the afternoon shift Sunday.
2.	The provision under Section 5.07 will not apply to employees on the 6 2/3 day work schedule.
3.	In reference to Section 6.13, when a vacancy occurs on an operation on the 6 2/3 day work schedule, the vacancy will be posted for seventy-two hours (exclusive of Saturday, Sunday or holidays).
ATTACHMENT A
41
THE 6 2/3 DAY, FOUR (4) CREW WORK SCHEDULE
D-DAY SHIFT: A-AFTERNOON SHIFT: N-NIGHT SHIFT 28 DAY CYCLE SHIFT ROTATION: DAYS - NIGHTS - AFTERNOONS EMPLOYEES WORKS-OFF:	7-1, 3-1, 3-2, 7-4
M T W T F S S MTHTFSS M T W T F S S MTWTF S
Crew No. 1 Crew No. 2
Crew No. 3 Crew No. 4
CREW PREMIUMS:	#1 - $.90 per hour worked
#2 - $.90 per hour worked #3 - $.90 per hour worked #4 - $.90 per hour worked
D D	D	N	N
A A	D	D	D
A	A	A	A	A
N N N N N
N N N N N D D	D	N	N
A A	D	D	D
A	A	A	A	A
A A A A A N N N N N D D D N N A A D D D
A	A	D	D	D
A	A	A	A
N	N	N	N	N
D	D	D	N
OVERTIME PROVISIONS:
1st Scheduled day off: time and one-half 2nd Scheduled day off: double time 3rd Scheduled day off: time and one-half 4th Scheduled day off: double time
42
APPENDIX E
COMPRESSED WORK SCHEDULE - 12 HOUR SHIFTS:
This letter sets out the conditions under which the parties agree to implement a Compressed Work Schedule with twelve (12) hour shifts for employees in the Medicine Hat Factory and G.E.L. Warehouse, as per Attachment.
For the purpose of this agreement, the Compressed Work Schedule is defined as the re-arrangement of working time that both reduces the number of days and increases the number of hours worked per day.
When such schedule is implemented, it will continue for an indefinite evaluation period, unless either the Company or the Union terminates the trial, upon giving thirty (30) days written notice to the other party or at the completion of the initial period.
In view of the potential impact on the employees and operations, the schedule will be subject to continuous monitoring and evaluation and if at any time during such trial there is any deterioration in departmental costs or areas, such as health and safety, productivity, quality and uniformity, asbsenteeism or any legislative prohibition, the Company or the Union may, upon giving thirty (30) days written notice to the other party, terminate the application of the schedule.
If a subsequent trial period is deemed to be appropriate at the completion of the initial trial period, that subsequent period would be for the term of the current Collective Labour Agreement and may be terminated by the Company or the Union, upon giving thirty (30) days written notice to the other party.
In the event the schedule is terminated according to the provisions of this letter, a schedule will be implemented in accordance with the Collective Labour Agreement and the Agreement for the 6-2/3 day, four (4) crew work schedule.
AMENDMENTS TO THE COLLECTIVE LABOUR AGREEMENT
The terms and conditions of the Collective Labour Agreement will apply to all employees who are scheduled on the Compressed Work Schedule, with the following exceptions:
HOURS OF WORK:
•In 'reference to Section' 4.01,- as per Appendix D for' employees 'on the Compressed Work Schedule, the regular weekly schedule is an average of forty (40) hours (based on a thirty-two (32) hour and forty-eight (48) hour rotation) within a period from 8:00 a.m. Sunday to 8:00 a.m. Sunday. (In any week in which a designated holiday occurs, the weekly hours may vary).
43
AMENDMENTS TO THE COLLECTIVE LABOUR AGREEMENT (cont'd)
OVERTIME HOURS:
In reference to Section 4.02, "Overtime Work" means all time worked in excess of an employee's regular eight (8) hours or twelve (12) hour shift schedule.
OVERTIME PAYMENT:
The provisions of Section 5.07 will not apply to employees on the 6 2/3 work schedule except where employees working Sunday afternoon shift begin work before their regular start time (4 p.m. or other mutually agreed to hours for plant startup). Such employees will be paid double time for all hours worked prior to their normal start time only. 6 2/3 employees required to work between the hours of 8 a.m. and 4 p.m. on Sunday will be paid double time. This provision will exclude janitor-watchmen.
SHIFT PREMIUM:
In reference to Section 5.16, for employees on the Compressed Work Schedule, shift premium payment shall be granted as follows:
For all hours worked between 4:00 p.m. and 12:00 p.m. - $0.30 per hour.
For all hours worked between 12:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m. - $0.35 per hour.
JURY DUTY:
In reference to Section 5.17, for employees on the Compressed Work Schedule, an employee who is required to serve on a jury or as a witness subpoenaed by the Crown shall be paid the difference between the amount paid for such service and his average hourly earnings for the first time lost from his regularly scheduled work shift of twelve (12) hours by reason of such service.
BEREAVEMENT:
In reference to Section 5.18, for employees on the Compressed Work Schedule, an employee will be compensated at his average hourly earnings for time lost by him upon his regular work schedule by reason of such absence, for a maximum of twenty-four (24) hours for each such death or funeral; this provision to apply when it is necessary for the employee to make arrangements and/or attend the funeral.
44
AMENDMENTS TO THE COLLECTIVE LABOUR AGREEMENT (cont'd)
JOB POSTING:
In reference to Section 6.13(3), when a vacancy occurs in a department or on an operation on the Compressed Work Schedule, the vacancy will be posted in the department for seventy-two (72) hours (exclusive of Saturday, Sunday or holidays).
However, if the number of qualified employees, who have so made themselves available for overtime coverage, is not sufficient to ensure adequate coverage, a joint committee will meet to review the problem and agree to an alternate procedure.
If there continues to be a problem with providing adequate overtime coverage, the Company will designate employees to be available for overtime coverage on their scheduled days off or terminate the trial based on the terms of this Agreement.
ADVANCED NOTICE:
When an employee has reason to be absent on his next regularly scheduled shift, advance notice must be given no later than two (2) hours before the start of that shift, except in emergency situations.
RELIEF:
An employee, who has not been relieved by the subsequent shift will remain on the job until other provisions can be made, but limited to a , two (2) hour period, while alternate arrangements are made.
AMENDMENTS TO THE SUPPLEMENTARY UNEMPLOYMENT BENEFIT AGREEMENT
In reference to definition 8 "Compensated or Available Hours", amend the last paragraph of 8(b) to read:
For employees on the Compressed Work Schedule, when work is offered on regular scheduled days off, hours worked will not be charged.
In reference to definition 26 "Work Week" or "Pay Period" for employees on the Compressed Work Schedule means seven (7), consecutive days beginning on Sunday at the regular starting time of the shift to which the employee is assigned or was last assigned immediately prior to being
r\ f f ^	■■	-•*•	■
In reference to definition 27 "Standard Work Week", for employees on the Compressed Work Schedule, the standard work week shall be an average of forty (40) hours (based on a thirty-two (32) hour and forty-eight (48) hour rotation).
45
ATTACHMENT
COMPRESSED WORK SCHEDULE
12 HOUR SHIFTS
D - Day Shift N - Night Shift A - Afternoon Shift N - Night Shift EMPLOYEES WORKS-OFF:
8:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m. 8:00 p.m. to 8:00 a.m. 4:00 p.m. to 12:00 p.m. 12:00 p.m. to 8:00 a.m. 2-2, 3-2, 2-3 Rotation
CREW NO. 1 CREW NO. 2
CREW NO. 3 CREW NO. 4
S M T W T F S
N----D	D----
A----N	N----
-	D	D	-	-	D	D
-	N	N	-	-	N	N
S M T W T F S
- D D-D D
- N N-N N
A--DD--
N--NN--
S M T W T F S
A-----N N------
N-----D D-----
-	N N - - N N
-	D D-----D D
S M T W T F S
-	N	N	-	-	N	N
-	D	D	-	-	D	D
N	-	-	N	N	-	-
A--DD--
CREW PREMIUMS:	#1	-	$.90	per	hour	worked
it 2	-	$.90	per	hour	worked
it 3	-	$.90	per	hour	worked
it 4	-	$.90	per	hour	worked
Letter //I
46
It is the policy of the Company to perform maintenance and engineering work with its own employees, provided it has the manpower, skills, equipment and facilities to do so and can do the work competitively and within prescribed time limits.
The Company will place primary importance on maintaining maximum employment opportunities for its skilled trade employees.
The Company will continue to notify the Union in advance if possible, when an outside contractor is to be engaged to work in the plant.
Letter #2
This letter will serve to confirm the understanding reached in recent negotiations on the subject of probationary period.
In the case of a probationary employee who has not shown qualification abilities in the required time period, the Company and the union may
mutually agree to extend his probationary period for one month in order for him to qualify.
Letter #3
This will confirm the Company's commitments with respect to the closure . of Medicine Hat Plant covered by this Agreement. In the event a full plant closure occurs during the life of the Agreement:
1.	The Company and/or Employer will notify the Local and International Union in accordance with any applicable Alberta status covering the subject.
2.	Following such notification, the Local and International Union will have the right to discuss and explore with the Company and/or Employer any possible means of averting the closure.
3.	If attempts to avert the plant closure are not successful, Company and/or Employer and Union representatives will meet to negotiate the manner in which the closure is carried out.
47
Letter //4
This will serve to confirm the understanding reached during recent negotiations regarding time lost on a shift where it pertains to article 6.04 (1).
An employee who is granted leave in accordance with section 6.04 (1) shall have his time considered part of his regular shift hours in determining overtime hours on regular departmental work.
Letter #5
This letter will serve to confirm the understanding reached during recent negotiations regarding the allotment of vacation under Article 8.04.
All employees will be given the opportunity, on a department seniority basis, to schedule their vacation until the end of January of each year.
If vacation dates are not selected by that time they will be taken on a first come first serve basis. All vacations must be scheduled by no later than April 1 of each year.
Letter #6
This letter will confirm the understanding reached during recent negotiations.
In the event that a holiday falls during an employee's regular vacation period and provided that the said employee actually works on his last regularly scheduled shift prior to and on his first regularly scheduled shift prior to and on his regularly scheduled shift following the vacation period and such holiday, the employee shall at his option:
1.	Take an additional day of vacation at a mutually agreed to time during that year;
OR
2.	Be paid one additional day's pay in lieu of extending his vacation period.
Letter #7
It is understood and agreed that piecework has been removed from the Medicine Hat Plant. All reference to piecework has been deleted from the Collective Labour Agreement.
Should a piecework wage payment system be reinstated at any time in the future, the piecework clauses from the February 13, 1987 - February 12, 1990, Collective Labour Agreement will be uased as the basis of negotiations between the two parties.
48
L<-_cer #8
This will serve to confirm the understanding reached during recent negotiations regarding the hiring of summer vacation relief.
The Company will hire summer vacation relief, as required, during the period of May through August. These employees will be paid at the current hiring-in rate for the term of their employment.
Overtime provisions will not apply except for statutory holidays when they will be paid in accordance with Article 7.04. No overtime will be paid until the completion of 40 hurs work per week or, in the case of employees on the 6 2/3 day work schedule, 32 hours one week and 48 the next.
This provision will not apply to any current students who may return to employment but will apply to all future students.
49
ADDENDUM TO THE COLLECTIVE LABOUR AGREEMENT
Company Union Agreement on conversion of piecework to daywork to encompass all piecework operators.
This agreement is made and entered into by and between Goodyear Canada Incorporated, Medicine Hat Plant & G.E.L. Warehouse and the United Rubber, Cork, Linoleum & Plastic Workers Local 628 for the purpose of defining and/or clarifying work rules and rates of pay for the employees covered under this agreement.
This agreement shall be a temporary agreement for the period of the Collective Labour Agreement.
1.	Employees will be required to work the full shift, less approved breaks and lunch periods; specifically there will be no late starts or early quits. It is then understood that all operations will function on a continuous basis, with employees working until the next shift takes over.
2.	The rates of pay for all operations were set at 15% over the base rate for each individual operation in effect in 1985 at the time of implementation.
Boxed earnings and shift differential will be added separately.
All new employees will be paid in accordance with the existing Collective Labour Agreement. All transfers will be paid in accordance with Article 5.03 (b).
3.	Employees will be paid their full job rate for their entire shift regardless of the job assignment; unless the reassignment is for the benefit of the Company, in such case he shall receive the higher of his regular rate, or the job rate to which he has been assigned, provided a satisfactory effort is made.
In the event of a change to establish methods, specifications working conditions and job content, which would result in a change in production, operations affected will be re-evaluated for-labour balance, manning levels and any corresponding changes to the base rate.
4.	It is understood that the employees will be required to apply themselves to their work with a satisfactory effort for the entire shift.
50
Addendum to the Collective Labour Agreement, Cont'd
5.	The Company will be solely responsible for the proper implementation of work rules and rates of pay.
6.	A two-man committee will be utilised to co-ordinate the ongoing operation of all departments and operations affected by this agreement, to meet, discuss and resolve all problems as required. The committee will consist of the Industrial Relations Manager, representing the Company, and a member to be named by the Local Union.
The conversion of piecework operations to total daywork operations is being undertaken with the purpose of improving the overall performance of the Medicine Hat Plant, both from a people and a product standpoint; with the primary objective to reduce waste, and inferior products which have a detrimental effect on our plant performance, while maintaining an acceptable level of productivity.
It is critically important for all employees to understand that productivity and efficiency are vital to our plant and any off-setting losses will adversely affect our security in the short and long term.
It is therefore recognized by both parties to this agreement, that a mutual desire to improve both our product and working atmosphere must exist, with commitment to the program by all individuals.
51
ALPHABETICAL INDEX
Agreement Cancellation ........................
Agreement Duration ............................
Arbitration Board
Chairman ................................
Single Arbitrator .......................
Nominee .................................
Three Man ...............................
Decision ................................
Arbitration Expense ...........................
Arbitration - Notice of .......................
Bargaining Committee Meetings Payment .........
Bargaining Committee Personnel .	.	..*......
Bargaining Unit Recognition ..................
Job Rates ....................................
Bereavement - Time Off ........................
Breakdowns - Controllable ....................
Breakdowns -
Minimum Pay .............................
Call in Pay .............................
Changes in Starting Time - Minimum Pay .......
Cleanliness - Work Area .......................
Continuous Operation Provision ...............
Deduction of Union Dues - Article 9	.......
Department Lists for Seniority Purposes . . . .
Discharge or Suspension as Penalty ...........
Duration of Collective Agreement - Article 12
SECTION
12.02
12.01
10.05
10.10 (2)
10.05
10.06 10.06
10.07
10.03
5.14
11.04
3.01
App. "A" 5.18
5.05-.06
5.10
5.08
5.09 11.02 App. "D"
9.--
6.15
10.12
12.01
SECTION
52
First Aid Payment 		. 5.12
Grievance & Arbitration Procedure - Article 10 		. . 10.—
Grievance - Rate		. 5.15
Grievance - Procedure 		. 10.02
Handicapped Employees - Seniority 		.. 6.17
Holidays 		. 7.01
Holiday During Vacation 		7.06
Holiday Pay - Qualification 		.. 7.03
Holiday Pay - Time Lost 		. 7.04
Holiday Pay - Time Worked 		.. 7.05
Hours of Work - Article 4 		.. 4 .--
Hours - Standard 		. 4.01
Improved Methods 		. 11.05
Insufficient Work - Rate of Pay 		. . 5.04 (2)
Interim Increase Formula 		,. App. "B"
Interpretation of Agreement Dispute 		.. 10.11
Interpretation of Terms - Article 12 		.. 2 .--
Jury Duty - General Provisions 		.. 5.17
Law - Confliction With 		. 3.04
Layoffs 			. 6.08 (2)
Layoffs - Elimination/Modernization of Methods, Etc. ..	.. 6.19
Layoffs Prior to Holiday 		. 7.07
Layoffs - Privileges 		. 6.06-9
SECTION
53
Layoffs - Union Officers 			 6.04 (2)
Leave of Absence - Union Officers 			 6.04
Leave of Absence - Personal Reasons 			 6.18
Management Functions 			 3.02
Minimum Wages - Hiring 			 5.03
Miscellaneous - Article 11 			 11.00
Notation on Record 			 10.17
Notice - Layoff or Leaving 			 6.10
Notices - Union 			 11.03
Offshift Premium 			 5.16
Overtime Distribution 			 4.01 (3)
Overtime Payment 			 5.07
Overtime Work 			 4.02
Probationer 			 6.05-6
Progressions - Regression 			 App. "C"
Protective Equipment 			 11.01
Purpose of Agreement - Article 1 			 1. —
Quality of Product 			 11.06
Rates of Pay - Article 5 			 5.--
Rates of Pay - Bereavement 			 5.18
Rates of Pay - General Adjustment 			 5.01
Rates of Pay - Individual Adjustment 				 5.02
Rates of Pay - Off standard stock 			 5.04 (3)
Rates of Pay - Insufficient Work 			 5.04 (2)
SECTION
54
Rates of Pay - No Incentive 			 5.04 (1)
Rates of Pay - Jury Duty 				 5.17
Rates of Pay - Minimum 			 5.03 (a)
Rates of Pay - Temporary Work 			 5.05 1-2
Recalls 			 6.08
Recognition of Bargaining Unit 			 3.01
Record of Notation 			 10.17
Records - Seniority 			 6.14
Reinstatement 			 6.11
Relief Help 			 4.04
Safety Committee 			 11.01
Scope of Agreement - Article 3 			 3 .--
Seniority - Article 6 			 6
Seniority - Accummulation During Sickness 			 6.03
Seniority - Calculation 			 6.01
Seniority - Crews 			 App. "C"
Seniority - Factory 			 6.06
Seniority - Engineering Division 			 6.08 (1)
Seniority - Handicapped Employees 			 6.17
Seniority - Loss of 			 6.02
Seniority - Revision of Lists 			 6.14
Seniority Records 			 6.14
Squadron Membership 			 11.07
Standard Hours 			 4.01
Stewards - Numbers of 			 11.08
SECTION
55
Strikes, Lockouts, Slowdowns, Etc............. .............. 3.03
Supervisor - Part Time Work ................................. 5.19
Supervisor - Return to Employee Status ...................... 6.12
Temporary Work Payment ...................
Time Lost - Comp. Request ..................
Time Sheet Changes .......................
Transfers - Employee Request .............
Transfers - Engineering Division .........
Union Notices ............................
Union Offices - Layoff & Leave of Absence
Vacancies - Notification of ..............
Vacation - Eligibility ...................
Vacation - Pay ...........................
Vacation - Minimum .......................
Vacation Pay - Computation ...............
Vacation - Year ..........................
5.04-5
5.11
4.03
6.13
6.08 (4) (5) (6)
11.03
6.04
6.13	(7)
8.02
8.03
8.03	(5)
8.03	(4)
8.01
10.11
Violation of Agreement