COLLECTIVE LABOUR AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
GOODYEAR CANADA INC. COLLINGWOOD PLANT
THE EMPLOYER
AND
LOCAL UNION 8 34 OF THE
UNITED RUBBER, CORK, LINOLEUM AND PLASTIC WORKERS OF AMERICA
THE UNION
FEBRUARY 6,	1994
TO
NOVEMBER 1,	1997
NUMERICAL INDEX
ARTICLE 1
Purpose ............................
ARTICLE 2
Interpretation .....................
ARTICLE 3
Scope of Agreement .................
ARTICLE 4
Hours of Work ......................
ARTICLE 5
Rates of Pay .......................
Seniority ..........................
ARTICLE 7
Designated Holidays ................
ARTICLE 8
Vacations ............................
ARTICLE 9
Union Security .......................
ARTICLE 10
Grievance and Arbitration Procedure ARTICLE 11
Miscellaneous ......................
ARTICLE 12
Duration of Collective Agreement ...
APPENDIX "A"	.....................
Interim Wage Increase ..............
Compressed work Schedule ...........
6 2/3 Day, Four Crew Work Schedule ,
Letters of Understanding ...........
Joint Process ......................
PAGE
1
1
3
4 7
1 1
20
22
25
28
32
34
36
40
44
49
52
83
INDEX BY SUBJECT MATTER
PARAGRAPH (,V )	PAGE (,V )
Accumulation of Seniority
ii	u	n
Agreement, Duration Agreement, Scope of Arbitration
A
6.05 - 6.12
Letter 7, 20 12.01-12.03 3.01 - 3.04 10.05-10.11
12-13 59, 75 34 3
29-30
B
Bargaining Committee	11.02	32
Bargaining Unit Work	i i . 06	32-33
Bereavement	5.11	9 .
Breakdown - Pay, Remain on Job	5.19-5.20	10
Pay, Sent Home	5.06	7
C
Calculation of Seniority
Call-in Pay
Change in Start Time
C1 assified/Unciassified Jobs
II	tt	M
Compressed Work schedule cost of Living Allowance
Coverall s
Crew Progression/Regres si on
6.01
5.04
5.05 6.23
Letter 17
Letter of Agreement Interim Wage Inc r. Letter 11
6.22
1 1
7
7
19
44
41-43
63
18-19
D
Deduction of Union Dues Definitions Designated Holidays
If	II
Discharge
Disqualification
-Failure to Qualify -Medical
Drug Related Problems Duration of Agreement
9.01-	9.02
2.01-	2.02
7.01-	7.07
Letter 22 10. 12-10. 15
6.21
6.18
Letter 1
12.01-	12.03
25 1-2 20-2 1 77 30
17-18
15-16
52
34
Experimental Work
PARAGRAPH S)
E
5.21
PAGE(S)
10
F
First Aid Visit Funeral Leave
5.07	7
5.11	9
G
Grievance & Arbitration Procedure 10.01-10.16
28-31
H
Hiring in Rates
It	ff	tl
Holidays-Observation of
it	ii	ii
-Payment of Hours of Work
5.02	7
Appendix A	36-40
7.01-7.03	20
Letter 22	77
7.04-7.07	20-21
4.01	^-6
Interpretation
I
2.01-2.02
1-2
Job Evaluations Job Responsibilities Jury Duty Joint Process
J
Letter 26	81
Letters 3,4	54-56
5.10	8
83
PARAGRAPH (S.)
PAGE(S)
L
Lay-off
Leave of Absence-Maternity -Personal -Union or Elective Office Letters of Understanding -Accumulation of Seniority -Clarification of Term "Qualification"
-Classified/Unclassified Jobs -Coveralls
-Drug Related Problems -Floating Holidays -Job Evaluations -Job Responsibilities -Lay-off while on Weekly Indemnity or Workers' Compensation -Lead Press Shower Time -Line Up (Posting of)
-Mechanical Serv, Sect.Manning -Missed Overtime -Modified Work Programme -Overtime Distribution -Plant Closing -Recording of Overtime -Retaining Seniority -Safety Shoes -S tuden t s
-Tax Calculation on Vacation Pays -Team Leaders
-Transfer to Mechanical Service Sect ion
-Vacation Scheduling -Vacation Shutdown -Washup time -Work Run-out
12
6.09-6 6.16 6.17 6.19
Letter 7
Letter
Letter
Letter
Letter
Letter
Letter
Letter
Letter
Letter
Letter
Letter
Letter
Letter
Letter
Letter
Letter
Letter
Letter
Letter
Letter
Letter
Letter
16 17 11
1
22
26
3
20
19
24
4
14
25
27
23
1 5 8
10
9
12
21
13
Letter 5 Letter 6 Letter 2 Letter 18
M
Maternity Leave
Mechanical Service Section Manning Medical Disqualification Miscellaneous Modified Work Programme
6.16
Letter 4 6. 18
11.01-11.08
Letter 25
N
10.16
12
15
15
16
59 69
70-72
63
52
77	'
8 1
54-55
75
74
79
56
67
80 82
78
68
60 62 6 1
64
76
65-66
57
58
53
73
15
56
15-16
32-33
80
31
Notations
Overtime-Definition of
-Distribution of -Missed -Pay
-Recording of
PARAGRAPH ( S)
O
4-. 02
4, 0 i, Le t ter 27 Letter 14 5.03
Letter 15
PAGE(S)
6
4-6,79
67 7
68
P
Pay, Rates of
I?	fl	It
Plant Closing Plant Injury Production Squadron Progression, Crew Protective Equipment Purpose
5.01-	5.21
Appendix A Letter 23
5.07 11.03 6.22
11.07
1.01-	1.02
7-10 36-40 78 '
7
32
18-19
33 1
Q
Qualification, Clarification of Letter 16
6 9
R
Rates of Pay
Reassignment Regression, Crew Reinstatement Remittance of Union Dues Rest Period
Right to Examine Seniority Records R. R. S . P .
5,01-5,21	7-10
Appendix A	36-40
Interim Wage Incr, 40-43 5.15-5.18	9-10
6.22	18-19
6.13-6.14	14
9.03	26
4.03	6
6.15	14
Letter #28	8 3
II
II
II
PARAGRAPH* S)
S
Safety Shoes Scope of Agreement Seniority
-Accumulate
—	II
-Calculate
-Loss of _ ||
-Retai n
-Super Seniority Shift Premium Shower Time
6 2/3 Day, 4-Crew schedule
Squad
Stewards
Student s
Letter 10
3.01-	3.04
6.01-	6.25 6.05-6. 12
Letter 20
6.01
6.02-	6.04
Letter 7 Letter 8 6.11 5.08
Letter L9
11.03
11.04
Letter 9
PAGE(S)
58
3-4
11-	19
12-	13 72
1 1
11-12
57
58 13
7-8 7 1
48-49
32
32
59
T
Team Leaders Temporary Assignment
II	I!
Transfers
it
Letter 21 5.15-5.18 6.20
6.20-6.21
Letter 13
73
9-10
17
17-18
63-64
U
Union Dues Union Notices Union Security Union Stewards
9.01-	9.03	25-26
11.01	32
9.01-	9.05	25-27
11.04	32
Vacat1ons
ti
V
8.01-8.08	22-24
Letter 5,6,12	55,56,62
W
Washup Time	Letter 2	5 1
Work Run-out	6.25	19
II II	Letter 18	70
1
COLLECTIVE LABOUR AGREEMENT
The Collective Labour Agreement is made and entered into as of the 6th day of February 1994- between Goodyear Canada Inc , , here i naf ter referred to as the "Employer", with respect to certain employees at its Collingwood Factory, and Local Union of The United Rubber, Cork, Linoleum and Plastic Workers of America,hereinafter referred to as the "Union",
ARTICLE 1 PURPOSE
1.0 1 It is the mutual desire of the contracting parties to promote cooperation and harmony and to provide an amicable method of settling any dispute or grievance that might arise between them.
1.02	They agree to work in harmonious relationship and undertake:
(a)	That there shall be no discrimination, interference, restraint or coercion by or on behalf of the Employer regarding any employee covered by this Agreement because of membership or non-membership in the Union.
(b)	That the Union, its members or its agents shall not intimidate or coerce said employees into membership.
ARTICLE 2
INTERPRETATION
2.01	In this Collective Agreement and in its application, unless the context requires otherwise, the following words and expressions will have the meaning hereinafter given to them:
a)	"Employer" means Goodyear Canada Inc., Collingwood Factory,
Collingwood, Ontario.
b) "employee" means and includes each and every employee of the Employer at its Collingwood Factory, save and except those employees covered by a Collective Labour Agreement with The International Union of Operating Engineers, quality assurance inspectors, supervisors,persons above the rank of supervisor, office and sales staff.
(c)	"probationer" means an employee without seniority.
2
2.01 (d) "probationary period" means the earlier of either the period of three (3) consecutive months or the period of four (4-) cumulative months during any twenty-four (24) month period of actual employment.In calculating seniority all time on lay-off, illness and leave of absence will be excluded.
(e)	"qua t i f i ca t i on" means the ability to perform the operation to which an employee is assigned in a competent manner and to produce the same standard of quantity and quality of work as is usually obtained from such operation; "to qualify" and "qualified" shall have a like meaning.
(f)	"layoff" means the termination of	work	of an	employee	by	the
Employer for an indefinite period, caused by the decision of the Employer to reduce or eliminate the work upon which the employee was engaged; "laid off"	or "to be	laid	off" shai i have	a like
meaning.
(g)	the term "base rate" or "rate of pay" shall mean the rate per hour for all daywork operations.
(h)	the term "average hourly earnings" as used in this Agreement is
defined as an employee's hourly earnings exclusive of all premiums: average hourly earnings	will be based,	where	possible,	on	the
earnings for the second week prior to date of application.
(i)	the term "vacancy" shall not include a vacancy caused by any of the following:
(i) when an employee	is absent	by	reason	of sickness	or
accident;
(i i) when an employee is on vacation;
(iii)	when an employee is on an authorized leave of absence;
(iv)	when a qualified employee is in layoff status.
(j)	"seniority" or "section seniority" means the status that an employee acquires after he/she has worked for the Employer for the period of time prescribed in Section 2.01 (d) in any twenty-four month period.
2.02	In this Collective Agreement, wherever the pronoun "he" appears it shall be construed as meaning any employee, male or female. In addition, the words "will" and "shall" are considered to be interchangeable.
3
ARTICLE 3 SCOPE OF AGREEMENT
3.01	The terms of this Collective Agreement shall apply to all employees and the Employer recognizes the Union as the sole collective bargaining agent for the said employees for the duration of this Collective Agreement.
3.02	The Union acknowledges that it is the exclusive function of the Employer:
(a)	to maintain order, discipline and efficiency;
(b)	to hire, discharge, transfer, upgrade, promote, demote or discipline employees and to increase and decrease the work force, provided that if there is a claim by an employee who has acquired seniority that he/she has been disciplined or discharged without just cause, it may be made the subject of a grievance and dealt with as provided in this Agreement;
(c)	to determine the qualifications of each employee;
(d)	to operate and manage its business in a11 respects and, without limiting the generality of the foregoing, to determine- the number and location of plants
-	the products to be manufactured
-	the methods of manufacturing and the production schedules to be used
-	the type and location of machines and tools to be used
-	the engineering and design of its products
-	the control of material and parts to be incorporated into the product.
The Employer agrees that these functions will be exercised in a manner not inconsistent with the terms of this Agreement.
3.03	There shall be no lockout, strike, slowdown or stoppage of work during the term of this Agreement or any extension thereof.
3.04	In the event that any of the provisions of this Collective Agreement are found to be in conflict with any valid and applicable Federal or
1
Provincial Law now existing, or hereinafter enacted, It is agreed that such law shall supersede the conflicting provisions without in any way affecting the remainder of the Collective Agreement.
ARTICLE 4
HOURS OP WORK
1.0 1 (!) The regular weekly schedule for the plant is a five-day forty-hour week, from Monday to Friday inclusive. However, this shall not be construed as a guarantee of a specified number of hours of work per day or of days of work per week.
The hours of work will be as follows:
One Shift Operation: 8:00 a.m. to ^:30 p,m. with
one half hour lunch period
Two Shift Operation: 8:00 a.m. to 1:00 p.m.
1:00 p,m, to 12:00 midnight
with a 20 minute paid lunch period
Three Shift Operation:	1st:	12:00 midnight to 8:00 a.m.
2nd: 8:00 a.m. to l:00p,m,
3rd: 1:00 p.m. to 12:00 midnight with a 20 minute paid lunch period
Shipping & Receiving:	Steady Day Shift:
8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. with one hour lunch period
Maintenance Service Section:	Steady Day Shift:
8:00 a.m. to 1:30 p.m. with one-half hour lunch period
The above shift times may be changed by the Employer at any time after prior discussion with the Union Bargaining Committee and notification to the employees involved.
(2) The Union recognizes that it is the function of the Employer to schedule hours of work and the employee's obligation to work the hours scheduled, provided that the working schedule is in conformity with the provisions of the Employment Standards Act and the Regulations issued thereunder.
The Employer undertakes to distribute overtime work equally and impartially among all employees in the department in the following manner insofar as it is reasonably practicable to do so:
5
1)	Among all employees who are regularly assigned to the operation who are willing to work;
2)	Among all qualified employees on shift in the department who are willing to work;
3)	Among all capable employees on shift in the department who are willing to work;
4)	Among all other qualified employees in the department who are willing to work;
5)	Among all other capable employees in the department who are willing to work;
6)	Among all employees who are qualified and who are willing to work;
7)	Among all employees who are capable of performing the operation in a reasonably efficient manner who are willing to work;
8)	Among all employees regularly assigned to the operation if necessary.
Weekend overtime for the employees regularly assigned to the
operati-on will be offered in the following order:
Day Shift	Overtime:	1st	Day shift	
		2nd	Afternoon	Shift
		3rd	Midnight	Shift
Afternoon	Shift Overtime:	1st	Afternoon	Shift
		2nd	Midnight	Shift
		3rd	Day Shift	
Midnight	Shift Overtime:	1st	Midnight	Shift
		2nd	Day Shift	
		3rd	Afternoon	Shift
Taking shift alignment into account, when scheduling overtime for both Saturday and Sunday, preference will be given to employees who are willing to work both days.
Overtime resulting in double shifts will not be asked unless it is an emergency.
Weekend overtime requirements of 2 hours or 1ess, immediateiy preceding or following the regular work week, will be distributed as per the regular work week.
Maintenance:
6
Employees on rotating shifts will be asked for overtime for the floor first.
For overtime on special assignments the employees assigned to the job will be asked first.
Failing this anyone in the Mechanical Service Section can be asked.
<1.02 Overtime work means all the time worked in excess of an employee's eight-hour shift in any twenty-four hour period; it also means all work done by an employee from the end of the third shift Friday until the start of the first shift Monday.
Overtime work does not include:
(a)	Time worked by employees substituting for one another at their own request.
(b)	A change of an employee's working hours at his/her own request.
(c)	The regular shift change.
(<d) The time spent on employee committee work or similar activity; however, such time will be considered part of an employee's shift hours in determining overtime hours on regular departmental work, provided that the time occurred during the employee's regular shift hours.
1,03 A ten-minute rest period will be observed during each half of the employee's shift, at a time to be determined by the Employer. An employee who is requested to work at least two hours overtime, will be granted a ten-minute rest period. If an employee works more than two hours overtime he/she will be granted a twenty-minute rest period at a time determined by the Employer, in addition to the regular rest periods when they are observed on such shift. If an employee works more than four hours overtime beyond the end of the shift, he/she will be granted the lunch period which is regularly granted on that shift. Smoking will be permitted in designated areas during the test period.
1,01	The Employer shall not reduce the regular working time of an employee because he/she has done overtime work unless the employee consents to such reduction, provided that $. reduction on an employee's regular working time may always be made by the Employer to comply with the Employment Standards Act of the Province of Ontario and regulations thereunder.
1.05	The Employer will provide adequate relief when and where necessary.
7	.
ARTICLE 5 RATES OF PAY
5.01 The rates of pay shall be the ones in effect at the date hereof, as set out in Appendix "A" and is attached hereto, and forms part of this agreement. They shall remain in effect for the balance of the term of this Collective Agreement,
5.02	The minimum hiring-in rates of pay in effect for the duration of this Col ective Agreement are as set out in Appendix "A".
5.03	All overtime shall be paid at the rate of time and one-half, except for the period from midnight Saturday to midnight Sunday, when double time sha 1 be paid; however, overtime premium will not be paid twice for the sam hours worked.
5.04-	An employee not previously scheduled to work who is called to work and consequently works in an emergency on Sunday or on a holiday, or at any time between one hour after he/she has left work and two hours before his/her next scheduled shift, shall receive either four hours at his/her regular rate of pay or regular rate of pay plus premium pay applicable for actual time worked, whichever is the greater. It is understood that when such emergency is over, the employee will be permitted to leave the plant.
5.05	When an employee has not been notified of a change in his/her starting time and he/she comes to work at his/her customary time, he/she shall be paid at his/her average hourly earnings, not to exceed base rate, for four hours of his/her regular shift, provided that the employee has advised the Employer of his/her last and correct address and telephone number, if any. This shall apply only when conditions are within the Employer's control. Such employee may be offered other suitable work, and if he/she refuses to accept such work he/she shall forfeit such pay.
5.06	When an employee reports for work on his/her scheduled shift and is sent home by reason of some breakdown in the factory, he/she shall be paid at his/her average hourly earnings, not to exceed base rate, for four hours of his/her regular shift, provided that the conditions which caused the breakdown were within the Employer's control. Such employee may be offered other suitable work, and if he/she refuses to accept such work he/she shall forfeit such pay.
5.07	An employee who is injured in the factory and is treated in the factory or is sent to an outside hospital or to a doctor's office shall be paid his/her regular rate of pay for time lost on his/her shift less any monies received as Worker’s Compensation or Weekly Indemnity benefits.
8
5.08	Employees on afternoon and night shift operations shall be granted premium payment as follows:
-For all hours worked on the regularly scheduled afternoon shift - $.35 per hour.
-For all hours worked on the regularly scheduled night shift- $.40 per hour.
5.09	Each member of the Bargaining Committee who is present at meetings called by the Employer, at the regular monthly meeting with the Employer or at a Step III or Step IV Grievance Meeting with the Employer shall be paid at his/her average hourly earnings for the period commencing one-half hour prior to the designated starting time of the meeting until the time at which the meeting is adjourned. He/she shall be paid his/her average hourly earnings for time lost from his/her regular shift while attending negotiation meetings with the Employer for renewal of agreements until such time as application is made ’ for conciliation services.
5.10 An employee who is required to serve as a juror in a legally constituted court or as a witness subpoenaed by the Crown shall be paid the difference between the amount received for such service and his/her average hourly earnings for the time lost from his/her regularly scheduled work shift by reason of such service, subject to the following provisions:
(a)	Employees must notify their supervisor within twenty-four hours after receipt of notice of selection for jury duty or subpoenaed as a Crown witness.
(b)	Any employee called for jury duty or who is subpoenaed as a Crown witness and who is temporarily excused from attendance at court must report for work if a reasonable period of time remains to be worked in his/her shift.
(c)	Employees selected for jury duty or who are subpoenaed as a Crown witness who are on other than day shift shall be assigned to the day shift those days they are required to serve.
(d)	In order to be eligible for such payments, the employee must furnish a written statement from the appropriate public official showing the date and time served and the amount of pay received. The Employer agrees to continue the regular pay schedule of an employee serving on a jury for the duration of his/her continuous absence. It is understood that these wages are being paid on an advance basis and the employee must, upon return, provide the above mentioned written statement and reimburse any overpayment.
9
(e)	Should an employee's scheduled vacation be affected due to his/her selection for jury duty or his/her being subpoenaed as a Crown witness, his/her foreman will reschedule said employee's vacation, if he/she so requests, in the current year.
5.11	An employee on the active payroll of the Employer who is excused solely because of the death and funeral of a parent, son,daughter, husband, wife, brother , sister or grandchild, will,upon presentation of proof of death, be granted permission to be absent and will be paid for time lost from his/her regular working schedule by reason of such absence for three consecutive days including the day of the funeral.
In the case of an employee excused by the Employer solely because of the death and funeral of a parent-in-law, grandparent, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-1n-iaw,spouse1s brother-in-law, spouse's sister-in-law, spouse's grandparent or a dependant who lives in the household of the employee, will be compensated,upon presentation of proof of death at his/her average hourly earnings for time lost by him/her from his/her regular working schedule by reason of such absenopt up to a maximum of three days for each such death and funeral. This provision to apply when it is necessary for the employee to make arrangements for and/or attend the funeral. If however the funeral is not attended, and/or arrangements were not made by the employee, he/she will be paid for lost time on only one of the above mentioned days.
If additional time off is required, approval must be obtained from the Industrial Relations Manager subject to an explanation.
For the purpose of this section, a step-parent or foster-parent shall be considered as a parent and a step-son or step-daughter or foster-son or foster-daughter shall be considered as a son or daughter only when the step-parent or foster-parent has taken the place of the natural parent in relation to such child and is not in receipt of any financial aid for the support of such child.
5.12 An employee will be paid average hourly earnings for time lost on his/her operation if he/she is called away from same by his/her Emp1 oyer.
5.13 Obvious mathematical errors in rate calculation	and obvious inaccuracies relating to job content made at the time the rate was computed will be corrected, unless more than ninety days have elapsed since the rate was effective, in which event corrections may be made only by mutual agreement.
5.14- It is agreed that the Employer shall base its standards on the full use of an employee's time, which consists of full productive time on the job less reasonable allowances.
10
5,15	When there is insufficient work on an employee's regular operation to complete a full shift's work and the employee is temporarily assigned to a daywork operation on which he/she is experienced, he/she shall be paid the base rate of the temporary assignment, providing a satisfactory effort is made.
5,16	When there is insufficient work on an employee's regular operation to complete a full shift's work and the employee is temporarily assigned to another operation on which he/she is inexperienced, he/she shall be paid either the base rate of the job assigned or his/her average hourly earnings of his/her regular operation, whichever is the lower, provided a satisfactory effort is made.
5.17	If the Employer temporarily assigns an employee, for the benefit of the Employer, to another operation on which he/she is inexperienced, while there is work available on the employee' s regular operation, he/she will be paid his/her average hourly earnings, providing he/she has made a satisfactory effort.
5.18	If the Employer temporarily assigns an employee, for the benefit of the Employer, to another operation on which he/she is experienced while there is work avai lable on the employee's regular operat ion, he/she wi 1 1 be paid his/her average hourly earnings or the base rate of the temporary operation, whichever is higher, providing he/she has made a satisfactory effort.
5.19	Time lost on a shift by an employee, owing to breakdown, stock shortage, defective stock or any other reason beyond the employee's control but within the Employer's control, shall be paid for at the rate of his/her average hourly earnings, not to exceed base rate. However, in the case of a breakdown beyond the control of both the Employer and the employee, the employee shall be paid average hourly earnings, not to exceed base rate, for all time lost on his/her shift during the period he/she is required by the Employer to remain on the job.
5.20	In the circumstances contemplated in Section 5,19, when an employee finishes his/her shift on an operation providing for a higher rate of pay, he/she shall receive the higher rate of pay in addition to pay for time lost.
5.21	All experimental work covered by an interdepartmental order will be paid at average hourly earnings providing a satisfactory effort is made.
11
ARTICLE.6 SENIORITY
6.0 1 Seniority shall be calculated from a date three or four months (whichever is applicable) prior to the date on which the employee acquires seniority.
6.02 An employee shall lose his/her seniority when he/she resigns or is discharged.
6.03	A laid off employee shall lose the seniority which he/she had at the date of his/her layoff whenever he/she fails to:
(a)	Inform the Employer of the address at which he/she can be reached when required to report to work. Changes of such address may be forwarded by mail, addressed to the Industrial Relations Department, and will be acknowledged in writing.,
(b)	Notify the Employer of his/her intention to return to work within one working day after having been notified to do so by messenger or within three working days after a notice to do so has been sent by registered mail or telegram, in either case to his/her last address on the records of the Employer.
(c)	Report for work within seven days after he/she has stated his/her intention to return to work, provided that the provisions of subsections (b) or (c) do not apply if the employee furnishes a reason satisfactory to the Employer within thirty days of his/her failure.
In each of such cases, his/her employment and his/her seniority shall terminate at once without notice or other action on the part of the Employer.
6.04	(1) An employee with seniority who is laid off and is not recalled to work by the Employer during the following twenty-four month period shall thereupon lose his/her seniority.
(2)	(a) in any one layoff period, a former employee with seniority in
layoff status who held less than five years of seniority at time of layoff, shall be entitled to accumulate seniority and service to a maximum of nine months and will be credited with such seniority and service upon return to work.
(b) In any one layoff period, a former employee with seniority in layoff status, who held five years or more of seniority at time of layoff, shall be entitled to accumulate seniority and service to a maximum of eighteen months and will be credited with such seniority and service upon return to work.
12
The accumulation of seniority and service provided for in this subsection shall not exceed the period of service attained by the employee as of the last day he/she worked prior to his/her layoff.
6.05	An employee with seniority who is absent from work because of bodily injuries caused by accident or sickness and qualified to receive weekly indemnity benefits under the terms of the Health and Life Insurance Agreement in effect from time to time between the Employer and the Union shall be entitled to accumulate seniority and service during the period of his/her absence on the following basis:
( i ) An employee who has less than five years of continuous service with the Employer will be entitled to accumulate seniority and service for a maximum period of one year.
(2) An employee who has five or more years of continuous service with the Employer, will be entitled to accumulate seniority and service for a maximum period of two years.
6.06	An employee with seniority who is receiving Worker's Compensation benefits as a result of a compensable injury suffered while in the employ of the Employer will continue to accumulate seniority during the period in which he/she is in receipt of such benefits.
6.07	The accumulation of seniority provided for in Sections 6.05 and 6.06 shall not exceed the period of service attained by the employee as of the day on which he/she last worked prior to such illness or accident. The seniority so accumulated will be credited to the employee upon his/her return to work.
6.08	The probationer shall be a temporary employee during the whole of his/her probationary period. His/her employment may be terminated at any time without reference to seniority and in no event shall the Employer have an obligation to rehire him/her or to offer him/her work.
LAYOFF
6.09	For the purpose of applying the seniority provisions contained in this Article, the plant shall be divided into two Sections:
Hose Manufacturing Section Mechanical Service Section
(1) For the purpose of lay-off and bumping rights only, the mechanical services section will be divided into two departments:
(a)	Electrical Service Department
(b)	Maintenance Service Department
13
6.10	No employee with seniority shall be' laid off before all probationers in the same section are laid off.
6.11	The members of the Union Bargaining Committee, Executive Board and the Top Four Officers shall be granted super-seniority in their own sections. In the event that any of these employees should become subject to layoff, he/she shall not be laid off but shall instead displace the employee with the least seniority in his/her section, provided that he/she is qualified to perform the work of that employee.
6.12	When it becomes necessary to lay-off an employee, the employee with the least seniority in either the classified, or unclassified jobs affected will be considered the surplus employee, and he/she will have the right to displace other employees with less seniority as follows:
Employees on Classified Jobs
The surplus employee from a classified job will:
(a) Displace the employee with the least seniority on the last classified job held by the displaced employee in the factory on which he/she has qualifications, providing his/her factory seniority is sufficient to displace such employee. Failing the above, the employee would regress through his/her classified job positions in the factory on which he/she has qualifications, providing his/her factory seniority is sufficient to displace such emp1oyee.
(B) Displace the employee with the least seniority on any unclassified job in the factory on which he/she is qualified provided his/her factory seniority is sufficient to displace such employee. Failing the above, the employee would displace the lowest unclassified job position in the factory, providing his/her seniority is sufficient to displace such employee.
Employees on Unclassified jobs
The surplus employee on an unclassified job will:
(c) Displace the employee with the least seniority on the last unclassified job held by the displaced employee in the factory on which he/she has qualifications, providing his/her factory seniority is sufficient to displace such employee. Failing the above, the employee would regress through his/her unclassified job positions in the factory on which he/she has qualifications, providing his/her factory seniority is sufficient to displace such emp Ioyee.
Failing the above, he/she would displace the lowest unclassified job position in the factory, provided his/her seniority is sufficient to displace such employee.
u
(d)	Find his/her rightful position in accordance with Article 6.12
(a)	.
REINSTATEMENT
6.13	(1) In the event of an increase in production resulting in the recall of former employees, an employee who was placed on other work in the factory from a classified group, shall be reinstated in the classified group in which he/she worked immediately prior to the date of placement, provided he/she is entitled to do so by virtue of his/her seniority, except that if the said employee has worked for six consecutive months on his/her new job he/she may retain h i s/her new job.
(2) An employee who was placed on other work in the factory from an unclassified job shall be reinstated to his/her former unclassified job; except that, if the said employee has worked six consecutive months on his/her new job, he/she may in this case retain his/her new job.
(3)	After all employees have been reinstated or transferred according to the provisions of Subsection (1), the balance of employees in a layoff status shall be recalled in the following manner:
(a) All employees with recall rights will be recalled in order of seniority to classified jobs that may be vacant provided the employee is qualified on such classified job.
(b) All employees with recall rights will be recalled in order of seniority to fill classified or unclassified jobs that may be vacant.
In each case consideration will be given to the physical fitness of the individual for the job, to ensure the safety of him/her self and others, and a competent working force shall be maintained at all times.
6.14- The Union acknowledges that in the administration of Article 6 it will be necessary for the Employer to maintain a trained and competent work force at all times.
6,15	An employee shall have the right to examine his/her seniority records in the Industrial Relations Department at any reasonable time. A seniority list shall be posted in each department showing the names of all the employees in said section. This list will be revised by the Employer at regular intervals of approximately six months, and each revision will be posted in the departments as soon as possible thereafter. The Union will be supplied with a copy of all seniority lists at the time of the revision.
15 .
6.16	A female employee who becomes pregnant shall present a certificate from her physician to such effect when she has been pregnant for a period of four months.
An employee who had at least twelve months continuous service prior to becoming pregnant shall, as of her fifth month of pregnancy, be granted upon request a leave of absence until four months after birth or other delivery. Her seniority shall be accumulated during the said leave of absence, provided that within the last mentioned four-month period she presents the written opinion of her physician that she is able to perform her normal work to the Industrial Relations Department of the Employer. If, at the expiration of the four-month period after birth or other delivery, she presents the written opinion of her physician to the Industrial Relations Department of the Employer to the effect that she is physically incapable of performing her normal work, her seniority shall be accumulated for a further period of three months, after which, if she is still medically incapable of performing her normal work, as evidenced by a doctor's certificate, she will retain'the seniority she had as at the date she left for maternity leave and shall be placed on medical leave per Section 6.05.
An employee who had less than twelve months continuous service shall be granted a 17 week leave of absence. Her seniority shall be accumulated during the said leave of absence provided that she returns to work on the date indicated in the letter of authorization and that she presents the written opinion of her physician to the Industrial Relations Department of the Employer to the effect that she is able to perform her normal work. If she is medically incapable of performing her normal work, as evidenced by a doctor's certificate, she will retain the seniority she had as at the date she left for maternity leave and shall be placed on medical leave per Section 6.05.
6.17	An employee who wishes a leave of absence for personal reasons shall make written application to the Industrial Relations Department, setting out the reason for his/her request. If granted, such leave shall be in writing and a copy will be given to the Union President. Leave of absence will not be granted for self-employment or employment elsewhere. The employee must return to work on the date indicated in the letter of authorization and he/she will be placed on his/her previous job provided that he/she is able to perform the work. The employee will be credited with service and seniority during the period while he/she is on leave of absence up to a maximum of two months. Welfare benefits, exclusive of weekly indemnity, will be continued during the period of leave of absence up to a maximum of two months.
6.18	An employee who is confirmed to be medically unable to continue working on his/her own operation but is capable of handling lighter work will regress through his/her previous job positions to a job on which he/she is qualified and capable of handling provided he/she has the seniority to do so. Failing that he/she will find his/her rightful place as outlined in Section 6,12,
16
Failing that an employee who has suffered serious injury or impairment from Goodyear employment which results in permanent disability, or an employee with ten or more years of continuous service who is unable to continue on his/her own operation but is capable of handling lighter work, may be assigned to and/or retained at work upon mutual agreement between the Union and the Company notwithstanding the provisions of this Article provided the employee has more seniority than the employee who he/she displaces.
6,19	(!) An employee who is selected as a delegate to a convention of the United Rubber, Cork, Linoleum and Plastic Workers of America, the Canadian Labour Congress, the Ontario Federation of Labour, specific Union duties or Municipal elective duties, may apply to his/her foreman for time off to attend such duties and will be granted such time as may be necessary for this purpose, provided that such leave will not interfere with the efficient operation of the plant.
(2) An employee who is elected or selected for full time duty as an officer for, or representative of the United Rubber, Cork, Linoleum and Plastic Workers of America or to the executive staff of the Canadian Labour Congress or to the Ontario Federation of Labour, which assignment will take him/her away from his/her employment with the Employer, may apply in writing for leave of absence; such leave of absence shall be requested and granted yearly and shall cancel itself automatically upon termination of this Collective Agreement. For two years following the date the leave of absence is granted, the employee will accumulate seniority and service for employment reinstatement and thereafter will retain seniority for as long as his/her leave of absence continues in force. Following the termination of his/her leave of absence and his/her immediate return to work for the Employer, he/she shall be reinstated to all privileges of employment and he/she shall be offered the same work in the department which he/she had left or similar work at the then current rate of pay for such work. For pension purposes only, such employee shall be credited with the seniority and service which he/she has accumulated pursuant to the preceding paragraph until he/she first becomes eligible for a pension or severance award from one or the other of the United Rubber, Cork, Linoleum and Plastic Workers of America, or the Canadian Labour Congress or the Ontario Federation of Labour. As soon as he/she becomes eligible for a pension or severance award from such organization, the employee then receives no credit for such accumulated seniority and service but retains the seniority and service which he/she had at the date of the commencement of his/her leave of absence and will not have to return to active employment with the Employer to qualify for a pension or severance award if otherwise eligible for the same. The Pension Plan in effect at the date of the employee's application for retirement shall be the Pension Plan applicable to him/her.
17
6.20	Effective March 2nd, 1991, employees who had been transferred out of the Bargaining Unit prior to September 4, 1987 will forfeit their right to seniority privileges upon returning to the Bargaining Unit.
All employees who transfer out of the Bargaining Unit after September 4, 1987 wi11 forfeit their right to seniority privileges upon returning to the Bargaining Unit.
An employee who has been temporarily assigned outside the Bargaining Unit (not to exceed 6 months in a one ye&f perioet)anet who returns to the
Bargaining Unit shall have seniority equivalent to the length of his/her continuous seniority with the Employer and shall be placed on the job which he/$he previously performed.
Temporary assignments will include a 30 day evaluation period during which time, if either party has problems with the assignment it will be reviewed. By mutual agreement with the Bargaining Committee (if no objections are raised) the assignment will be extended up to a maximum of 3 months. If the project is incomplete an additional extension, up to a maximum of 6 months must be mutually agreed upon.
If cutbacks occur during the temporary assignment resulting in layoffs the employee will return to the job which he/she previously performed and will find his/her rightful position as outlined in Article 6, Section 6.12.
6.21	(1)	(a) Employees shall be granted the right to transfer only upon
completion of 6 months continuous service.
(b)	An employee with seniority who wishes to transfer to another operation in the plant shall file a written request with the Industrial Relations Department, stating the specific operation desired.
(2)	(a) Each employee will be permitted to have one request for
Transfer on file at any given time. A copy of each request for transfer will be provided to the employee involved and the Union President or his/her designate.
(b) Requests for transfer shall expire after one (1) year or upon refusal to accept the transfer offered.
(3) When a vacancy occurs, a notice of such vacancy will be posted in the factory for at least two full working days. Only the written applications made by employees prior to or during the posting period shall be considered.
All subsequent vacancies created by the filling of the vacancy will not be posted but will be filled from the transfers on file in the Industrial Relations Department,If no transfers on file then normal hiring practices will prevail.
18
(4)	The employee with the longest ’seniority who has a request on file for transfer on that specific operation, or who has applied through posting and who can qualify, shall be transferred. An employee will be transferred to the Mechanical Service Department only if he/she is qualified for a job on which a vacancy exists in that department.
If it is determined that the new job is beyond the capabilities of the transferred employee within a period'of not more than five full normal working days that employee shall be allowed to return to his/her previous job. All subsequent transfers created by the original job posting will, in turn return to their previous positions.
An employee transferredat his/her own request to another operation will be paid the rate of his/her previous operation or 10b an hour below the maximum of the operation to which he/she has transferred whichever is the lesser until such time as he/she is qualified on the new operation, at which time he/she will then be paid the maximum rate of that operation.
An employee who is transferred and fails to qualify on the new operation will displace the employee with the least seniority in the unclassified group.
An employee who has had a request for transfer honoured under the provisions of 6.21 will not be permitted to have another request for transfer honoured until the expiration of 6 months with the exception of textile spiral and crosshead operators for whom the period will be 9 months.
The Employer undertakes to notify the Local Union of vacancies available as a result of the establishment by the Employer of new operations at least five full normal working days before the vacancy occurs and a copy of such notification will be placed upon the plant bulletin boards.
NOTE : Saturdays, Sundays and holidays are not included in the full normal working days as referred to throughout this above clause.
6.22	Crew Progression
(1)	(a) Employees on the job immediately below the crew or crews open
position who are qualified on the job where the opening occurs will fill the opening, in order of factory seniority.
(b) If the opening is not filled in paragraph (a), the employees who are not qualified on the job immediately below the opening, will fill the vacancy, in order of factory seniority.
1 9
(c)	If the opening is not filled as in paragraphs (a) or (.b) the same procedure as outlined in (a) and (b) will be followed progressively on the lower jobs in the crew or crews.
(d) If the opening is not filled as in paragraphs (a), (b) Oj- (c) then the opening will be filled as outlined in Section 6.21.
NOTE :	In moving up, the employee with the highest seniority in the crew
or crews in the position immediately below the job opening will progress to the open position.
Crew Regression
(2)	Employees on crew operations shall regress due to a,reduct ion in the number of crews or the number of employees in a crew as follows:
The first employees to regress will be the unqualified employees in reverse order of factory seniority, in the highest job in the crew or crews.
The next employees to regress will be the qualified employees in reverse order of factory seniority, in the highest job in the crew or crews.
In moving down, the employee shall displace the unqualified employees, if any, in reverse order of factory seniority and then the qualified operators in reverse order of factory seniority in the next lower job in the crew or crews providing his/her factory seniority is sufficient to displace such employee.
6.23	For the purpose of this Article, a list of all departments of the factory and classified and unclassified jobs shall be given by the Employer to the Union from time to time.
6,26- It is understood that, in the application of Article 6, where an employee may exercise his/her seniority rights, consideration, in each case, will be given to the physical fitness of the individual for the job, to ensure the safety of himse1f/herse1f and others, and it will, in no way, limit the right of the Employer to maintain a competent working force.
6.25 When an employee's work is run-out, and there is no other work to which he/she is assigned, within five working days, seniority provisions will be applied in accordance with Article 6.
(a)
(b)
NOTE :
20
ARTICLE'7
DESIGNATED HOLIDAYS
7.01	A holiday is deemed to begin at the start of the first shift on the day of the holiday. When a holiday occurs it may be necessary for some employees to work after the start of the first shift to complete work in progress or to close down properly for the holiday. In the Mechanical Service Section, the minimum number of employees necessary to keep the factory in operating condition shall work on the holiday. From time to time emergencies may arise which will make it necessary for certain employees to work on a holiday in order that other employees will not suffer loss of time.
7.02	Employees who qualify will be paid an amount equal to their regular rate of pay for one standard shift for each of the following holidays:
New Year’s Day,	Civic Holiday,
Good Friday,	Labour Day,
Victoria Day,	Thanksgiving Day,
Canada Day,
and two (2) additional holidays which will be floating holidays, the date of which will be selected by the Employer.
If an additional statutory holiday is proclaimed by either level of government, such holiday would take the place of one of the floaters.
7.03	In event that Canada Day or Civic Holiday should fall during a scheduled Plant vacation shutdown period, such holiday will be observed on another date during the calendar year designated by the Employer after discussion with the Union Bargaining Committee.
7.0k Only the employee who actually works his/her last regular scheduled shift before and his/her first regular scheduled shift following the holiday shall receive holiday pay. In a case where there are circumstances beyond the employee's control and the employee could have worked if the factory had operated, payment for a holiday may be made upon recommendation of the employee's Department Foreman.
Subject to the above, an employee who is absent because of sickness or accident evidenced by a doctor's certificate and limited to a thirty day period exclusive of Saturday and Sunday which period includes such designated holiday, shall receive holiday pay. There shall be deducted from such pay any payments which the employee receives as the result of such illness.
7,05	An employee required to work on a holiday shall be paid double time for time worked, in addition to holiday pay.
Last working day before Christmas, Christmas Day, Boxing Day
2 1
7.06	An employee shall receive holiday pay for a holiday that occurs either during his/her regular vacation or the day before or the day after his/her regular vacation period provided that the said employee actually works his/her last regular scheduled shift before and his/her first regular scheduled shift following his/her vacation period and such ho 1 iday.
In a case where an employee is absent on his/her regular scheduled shift before or his/her first regular scheduled shift after such holiday and vacation and such absence is excused, payment for the holiday may be made upon a recommendation as outlined in Section 7,0k, Subject to the above, an employee who is absent because of sickness or accident evidenced by a doctor's certificate and limited to a thirty day period exclusive of Saturday and Sunday, which period includes such designated holiday, shall receive holiday pay for a holiday that occurs either during his/her regular 'vacation or on the day before or the day after his/her regular vacation period. There shall be deducted from such pay any payments which the employee receives as the result of such illness.
7.07	An employee who is laid off within a period of five working days immediately preceding a holiday, and who is actually at work on the day of layoff, shall be entitled to receive holiday pay for such holiday.
22
ARTICLE'8
VACATIONS
8.0	1 In order to bring everyone to a common vacation year and for the purpose of computing the vacation entitlement and the vacation pay, the vacation year shall be the calendar year.
8.02	An employee with less than one year of continuous service as of December 31 of the previous calendar year shall be granted in the current year a vacation of one-half day for each complete month he/she has worked during the previous calendar year, since the last date of hiring and he/she shall receive as vacation pay 2% of his/her earnings in the previous calendar year since the last date of hiring.
An employee who completes one year of continuous service during the current year shall be granted in the current year a second week of vacation on his/her completion of one year of continuous service in addition to the vacation he/she has already been granted for his/her previous service, and will receive as vacation pay for that second week of vacation 2% of his/her earnings in the previous calendar year.
8.03	An employee with one year or more but less than five years of continuous service as of December 31 of the previous calendar year shall be granted in the current year two weeks of vacation and he/she shall receive as vacation pay of his/her earnings in the previous calendar year since the last date of hiring.
8.0^ (l) An employee with five years or more of continuous service as of December 31 of the previous calendar year shall be granted in the current year three weeks of vacation and he/she shall receive as vacation pay 6% of his/her earnings in the previous calendar year since the last date of hiring.
(2)	An employee who completes five years of continuous service during the current year shall be granted in the current year a third week of vacation on his/her completion of five years of continuous service in addition to the vacation he/she has already been granted for his/her previous service and will receive as vacation pay for that third week of vacation 2% of his/her earnings in the previous calendar year.
(3)	An employee with twelve years or more of continuous service as of December 31 of the previous calendar year shall be granted in the current year four weeks of vacation and will receive as vacation pay 8% of his/her earnings in the previous calendar year.
(4)	An employee who completes twelve years of continuous service during the current year shall be granted in the current year a fourth week of vacation on his/her completion of twelve years of continuous service in addition to the vacation he/she has already been granted for his/her previous service and will receive as vacation pay for
23
that fourth week of vacation 2% of his/her earnings in the previous calendar year.
(5)	An employee with twenty years or more of continuous service as of December 31 of the previous calendar year shall be granted in the current year five weeks of vacation and will receive as vacation pay 10% of his/her earnings in the previous calendar year.
(6)	An employee who completes twenty years of continuous service during the current year shall be granted in the current year a fifth week of vacation on his/her completion of twenty years of continuous service in addition to the vacation he/she has already been granted for his/her previous service and will receive as vacation pay for that fifth week of vacation 2% of his/her earnings in the previous calendar year.
(7)	An employee with twenty-five years or more of continuous service
as	of December	31 of	the previous calendar year shall	be granted
in	the current	year	six weeks of vacation andt will	receive as
vacation pay 12% of his/her earnings in the previous calendar year.
(8)	An employee who completes twenty-five years of continuous service
during the current year shall be granted in the current year a sixth week of vacation on his/her completion of twenty-five years of	continuous	service in addition to the vacation	he/she has
already been granted for his/her previous service and will receive as	vacation pay for	that sixth week of vacation 2%	of his/her
earnings in the previous calendar year.
(9)	An employee with twenty-five years or more of continuous service has the option to either take the time off or work the sixth week of vacation. Scheduling of vacation will remain as per Section 8.05.
8.05	Vacations may be taken at any time during the calendar year, at such time as may be most convenient to the Employer, but every effort shall be made to schedule vacations at times suitable to the employees.
8.06	In computing the actual earnings for vacation pay, the following items shall be included: actual wages earned (including bonuses and overtime payment), vacation pay for the preceding year, Workers' Compensation payments for lost time and Weekly Indemnity payments paid under the Health and Life Insurance Agreement.
8.0	7 When an employee has been unable to work during a portion of the preceding calendar year owing to sickness or injury not covered by the Workers' Compensation Act, and for this reason only the vacation pay is less than the minimum mentioned below, the vacation pay shall be increased to a minimum of $240.00 per week, provided that said employee must have worked during some portion of the preceding calendar year and have resumed his/her normal duties not less than three months before vacation is granted.
24
3.08 An employee with one year of continuous service or more, who leaves the employ of the Employer for any reason wi 1 i receive the appropriate amount of vacation pay to which he/she is entitled under the provisions of this Article. This shall include vacation pay calculated on his/her earnings during the previous calendar year and the current calendar year to his/her date of separation, less any monies which he/she shall have received in the form of vacation pay with respect to these periods.
An employee with less than one year of continuous service, who leaves the employ of the Employer for any reason will receive as vacation pay, four percent of his/her earnings since his/her last date of hiring less any monies which he/she shall have received in the form of vacation pay with respect to his/her period of employment.
25
ARTICLE.9 UNION SECURITY
9.01	(a) Any employee who is a member of the Union in good standing on the effective date of this Agreement shall maintain his/her membership in the Union as a condition of his/her continued employment for the duration of this Collective Agreement to the extent of paying Union dues, in accordance with the constitution of the U.R.C.L, and P.W.A. as determined by the Local Union and uniformly required of all members of the Union as a condition of acquiring or retaining membership therein.
(b) Any employee in the bargaining unit who is not a member of the Union shall become a member of the Union on the effective date of this Agreement as a condition of his/her continued employment and shall maintain his/her membership on the same terms and to the same extent as provided in subsection 9.0 1	(a) .
(c) Any person hired on or after the effective date of this Agreement or transferred therein after such effective date shall make application for Union membership and shall as a condition of his/her continued employment maintain his/her Union membership on the same terms and to the same extent as provided in subsection
9.01	(a) .
(d)	All present employees and all new employees including employees transferred into the bargaining unit shall have their membership dues deducted from their earnings by signing the dues authorization and deduction form as provided in Section 9.02,
9.02	(a) The Employer will deduct the authorized Union dues and assessments
from the third pay received in each month of each employee from whom the Payroll Department has received, or may receive during the life of this Agreement, a dues authorization and deduction form in the following form:
26
Date ...........,,.,,19......
"Effective as of this date, I hereby authorize Goodyear Canada Inc. to deduct from wages due me, current monthly Union dues and any unpaid regular monthly dues, initiation fee, rejoining fee (if any) and general assessment which are established by Local Union 834 and to be deducted in accordance with the Collective Agreement, the amount of which deductions shall have been notified by the Union to the Employer from time to time. Said dues to be remitted by the Employer to the Treasurer of Local 834, U.R.C.L, and P.W.A. This assignment and authorization shall be irrevocable in accordance with the provisions of Article 9 of the Collective Agreement between the Union and the Employer and I acknowledge that I understand the provisions of Article 9 thereof.
Signature
Street Address .................................
Town ......................... Telephone Number
Clock Card Number ............ Department Number
(b)	If there are insufficient monies in the third pay in any calendar month to enable the Employer to deduct all of the Union dues for such month, the deduction shall be made from the next succeeding pay to which the employee is entitled.
(c)	All authorizations for Union dues are to be executed in triplicate by the employee concerned. One copy is to be retained by the employee who executed the authorization, one copy is to be given to the Treasurer of Local 834, and the third copy is to be retained by the Employer.
9.03	The Employer, when remitting to the Treasurer of Local 834 the Union dues deducted as herein provided, will furnish the Union with a list of the names and clock card numbers of employees, classified as follows:
(1) Employees from whose pay deductions have been made, and the amount of such deductions.
(2)	Employees from whose pay no deductions have been made, and the reason therefore.
(3)	Employees who are no longer employees of the Employer.
(4)	A completed check-off certification form supplied by the Union.
27
9.04-	The assignments and authorizations once executed shall be irrevocable for the duration of this Collective Agreement or any renewal thereof, provided that if the termination of this Agreement or any renewal thereof is followed by the execution of a new Agreement, these assignments and authorizations shall be deemed to be automatically renewed for the duration of such new Agreement.
9.05 The Union shall indemnify and save the Employer harmless from any claims, suits, judgements, attachments and from any other form of liability as a result of the Employer making any deductions in accordance with the foregoing authorizations and assignments, and the Union will make refunds directly to all employees from whom a wrongful deduction was made.
28
ARTICLE ’10
GRIEVANCE AND ARBITRATION PROCEDURE
10.01	It is the mutual desire of the parties hereto that complaints of employees shall be adjusted as quickly as possible, and any dispute or complaint between the employee and the Employer shall be dealt with as provided hereunder.
10.02	An employee who has a complaint may discuss it either personally or through the intervention of his/her steward with his/her immediate supe rv i so r.
10.03	If such complaint is not settled to the satisfaction of the employee concerned, such complaint shall be considered to be a grievance and subject to the following steps of the Grievance Procedure.
Step I	.
The grievance may be discussed by the steward and/or a Union representative with the supervisor of the department in which the grievance originated. A verbal dec is on will be rendered by the Supervisor within a period of one day, if possible.
Step II
If no satisfactory solution is reached at Step I of this procedure, the grievance shall be reduced to writing and may be discussed by the Steward and/or a Union representative with the Production Manager/Business Centre Manager and the Industrial Relations Manager of the Employer within a period of not more than five normal working days following a decision at Step 1. A decision will be rendered in writing by these parties within a period of three normal working days if possible.
Step III
If no satisfactory solution is reached at Step II of this procedure, the grievance may be discussed by the Bargaining Committee of the Union and representatives of the Employer designated for this purpose, including the Industrial Relations Manager, within a period of not more than five normal working days following a decision at step II of this procedure. A decision will be furnished in writing by the Industrial Relations Manager to the President of the Union not later than five normal working days following the commencement of the discussion in Step III if possible.
Step IV
29
If no satisfactory solution is reached at Step III of this procedure, the grievance may be discussed by the Bargaining Committee of the Union and a representative of the International Union and representatives of the Employer designated for this purpose, including the Plant Manager,provIded that, within a period of not more than five normal working days after receipt by the Union of the decision in Step III, It notifies the Employer of its desire to proceed to Step IV. Such meeting will be held within ten normal working days. The Plant Manager or his/her designated representative shall render h 1 s/her decision within five normal working days from date of this meeting.
Step V
If the grievance has not been settled at Step IV and if the grievance is one which concerns the application, administration,interpretation or an alleged violation of the Agreement, either party may refer such grievance to a Board of Arbitration by delivering to the other party in writing within thirty-five days of the receipt of the decision In Step IV a statement of intention to refer the grievance to a Board of Arbitration.
NOTE; wherever working days is referred to in Article 10 it refers
to the employee’s normal work schedule.
10,0^ It is agreed that the aggrieved employee shall be at liberty and may be required by either party to appear in person at any step of the procedure set forth above.
10.05	(l) In all cases of arbitration a single arbitrator will be
substituted for a Board of Arbitration provided for in this Article 10 unless the Union and Employer mutually agree to proceed by means of a Board of Arbitration.
(2) In a ll cases of substitution of a single arbitrator for a Board of Arbitration as outlined in subsection (l) of Section 10.05 all other applicable provisions of Article 10 will continue to apply so far as they are relevant.
10.06	Each party will, within five normal working days of the notice referred to in Step V, nominate a person to represent it on the Board of Arbitration and notify the other party of the name of such person; the two persons so nominated will forthwith appoint a third person to act as Chairman of the Board of Arbitration. If they are unable to agree upon a Chairman within ^8 hours after receipt of notice of their appointment they will jointly request the Minister of Labour of the Province of Ontario to appoint a Chairman.
30
10.07	Such Chairman, together with the two nominees above, shall constitute the Board of Arbitration, and they shall meet promptly to hear and consider the grievance with all reasonable dispatch. The decision of the majority of the Board made in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement shall be final and binding on the Employer, the Union and the employee or employees concerned.
10.08	Each of the parties will bear the expense of the arbitrator nominated by i t; the parties will jointly bear the expense of the Chairman of the Board.
10.09	The Board of Arbitration shall, wherever possible, render its decision within thirty days of the conclusion of the hearing of the dispute; provided that failure of the Board to render its decision within the time limit specified shall not deprive it of jurisdiction or vitiate any award that may be made.
10. 10 The Board of Arbitration shall not have any power to alter or change any of the provisions of this Collective Agreement or-to substitute any new provisions for any existing provisions or to give any decision inconsistent with the terms and provisions of this Collective Agreement.
10. H Any or all of the time limits set forth above may be extended by mutual agreement in writing.
DISCHARGE CASES
10.12 An employee with seniority who claims to have been discharged or suspended unjustly may file a claim in writing with the Industrial Relations Manager within five normal working days of ceasing to work, stating that he/$he has been unjustly discharged or suspended.
10.13	All such cases shall be handled at Step III of the grievance procedure within three normal working days of the receipt of the claim from the employee who has been discharged or suspended. If no satisfactory solution is reached as a result of the application of Steps III and IV of the grievance procedure, the dispute shall be subject to arbitration in accordance with the provisions of Article 10.
10.14- If it is decided that the employee was unjustly discharged or suspended he/she shall be reinstated, and he/she shall be compensated at his/her regular rate of pay for time lost, subject to the provisions hereinafter provided.
10.15 The Board of Arbitration shall have the right to increase or decrease the penalty if they feel the circumstances justify such action, and shall have authority to determine the amount of pay, if any, the employee is to receive for the period of his/her discharge or suspension if he/she is subsequently reinstated.
31
In calculating the amount of pay the employee is to receive if reinstated, the Board of Arbitration shall deduct therefrom any monies earned by the employee from other employment and any Unemployment Insurance benefits received by the employee during the period of his/her suspension or discharge and retained by him/her,
10.16	(!) An employee will be given a copy of any notation concerning
his/her misconduct or inefficiency at the time it is placed in his/her personal record. A copy of every notation will be forwarded to the President of the Union by the Industrial Relations Manager of the Employer.
(2) Notations reporting offenses, exclusive of the violation of the no-strike provisions in this Agreement, not repeated within a one year period will be disregarded in the administration of discipline.
(3) Notations reporting offenses involving violation of the no-strike provisions in the Agreement not repeated within a three year period will be disregarded in the administration of discipline.
11.01
11.02
11.03
11.04
11.05
11.06
32
ARTICLE ’ 11 MISCELLANEOUS
The Employer agrees to permit the Union to post notices of meetings and other Union business or affairs on the bulletin board in the factory provided for such purposes:	it is agreed, however, that such notices
shall be subject to approval by the Industrial Relations Manager.
A Bargaining Committee consisting of four members, all of whom shall be regular employees of the Employer, shall be selected by the employees who are members of the Union, in a manner determined by the Union. The Employer shall be informed by the Union, in writing, of the personnel of the Committee and of any changes which may occur from time to time.
The membership of the Collingwood Factory Production Squadron training group shall not exceed two percent of the employees in the bargaining unit. Production Squadron Trainees may be assigned by the Employer to regular operations in various departments. Regular employees shall not be displaced to create a job opportunity for a trainee, but it shall be the prerogative of the Employer to assign a trainee or trainees to a department where one or more vacancies exist for a training period and to assign a trainee or trainees to a department where no vacancy exists for the completion of job training assignments in accordance with the established syllabus.
The Union shall have the right ta select a minimum of two stewards per shift and one steward for the Mechanical Service Section, however, there shall not he more than one steward for every ten employees on the
Seniority List.
A list of stewards shall be submitted to the Employer in writing by the local Union before the Employer is required to recognize such appointments.
Any notice to be given by one party to the other shall be addressed as fol lows:
To the Union:	President, Local 834,
The United Rubber, Cork, Linoleum and Plastic Workers of America,
Collingwood, Ontario.
To the Company:	Manager, Industrial Relations,
Goodyear Canada Inc.,
Mountain Road,
Collingwood, Ontario.
No person who is not included in the bargaining unit shall perform any part of the work normally performed by members of the bargaining unit;
33
however, this provision will not prohibit instructions, the training of new employees or the handling of emergency situations.
11.07	(1) The Employer will provide reasonable protective devices and other
equipment necessary to protect employees from injury and sickness. The Union agrees to co-operate with the Employer in the use of these devices and in the elimination of industrial accidents.
A Plant Health 4c Safety Committee shall be maintained as presently constituted, consisting of not more than four members representing the Employer and not more than four members representing local Union. The function of the committee is to facilitate the promotion of safe work practices and accident prevention in the plant.
The committee shall meet not less than once per 'month in order to discuss safety problems. The Committee's function will include a monthly tour of a section of the factory to observe and report on unsafe conditions or procedures.	The committee will make
recommendations concerning safety in the factory with the status of any recommendation made to be reviewed at each meeting. The committee should periodically verify that adopted recommendations are being complied with.
The Committee will be provided, upon request, with known information on toxic materials being used in the plant operations. Employees using toxic materials should be familiarized with safe handling of same.
One committee member representing the Employer and one member representing the local Union shall be advised as soon as possible following any serious injury in the plant for the purpose of investigation of the accident and to help determine the cause of injury and suggest preventive measures.
(2) Each employee shall use reasonable care for the cleanliness of his machine and the immediate working area.
11.08	The letters of understanding number 1 through 27, the Interim Wage Increase provisions, the Continuous Operation Agreement and the Compressed Work Schedule, the Pension Plan and Severance Award Agreement, the Health and Life Insurance Agreement and the letters of understanding numbered 1 through 5, and the understanding of the Dental Plan are attached hereto, and form part of this agreement.
34
ARTICLE 12
DURATION OF COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
12.01	Save as to the Pension Plan and Severance Award Agreement and the/\ Health and Life Insurance Agreement, this Collective Agreement constitutes the entire one between the Employer and the Union; it shall remain in force_ from the, 6th, day of February, 199^_jto__thfi---lat--day--o-f
,Nbvarfaer,____199 7', ~and thereafter from year to year unless either party
gives to the other party notice in writing of cancellation or of proposals for revision within a period of not less than two months or more than three months prior to the anniversary date.
12.02	If either party gives to the other a notice of cancellation in accordance with the provisions of Section 12.01, this Collective Agreement shall terminate in accordance with such notice.
L2.03 If either party gives to the other a notice of proposals for revision in accordance with the provisions of Section 12.01, the parties shall meet to consider the proposed revisions within fifteen days of the date of delivery of such notice. If no agreement on the proposed revisions is reached by midnight of November 1, 1997, or by midnight of any other subsequent anniversary date, as the case may be, this Collective Agreement shall be continued in operation for a period not exceeding one year less one day until a new Agreement is reached or until the procedure contemplated by Section 74 of the Labour Relations Act, 1992 has been completed.
35
IN WITNESS WHEREOF THE PARTIES hereto have executed this Agreement this V ^ day of	» 199^
GOODYEAR CANADA INC. COLLINGWOOD FACTORY
LOCAL Union 834 OF THE UNITED RUBBER, CORK, LINOLEUM AND PLASTIC WORKERS OF AMERICA
K. Dawson, Int. Rep.
36
APPENDIX "A"
Attached to and forming part of the Collective Labour Agreement between Goodyear Canada Inc., Collingwood Factory, Collingwood, Ontario and Local Union 834 of the United Rubber, Cork, Linoleum and Plastic Workers of America terminating on November 1st, 1997.
Effective Feb. 6/94 (1) (2)
Department	Job Classification
9321
stores	s t- o f enmri/wonmn	$12.39
9390	Shipping Sc Warehouse Pool	12.49
SHIPPING	Receiving and/or Shipping	Clerk	12.49
9437
CEMENT HOUSE	Cement House	12.29
9541
SLITTER
9542
PLASTIC EXTRUDER
9543
TUBER
9545
DI V11 B11 POLE CROSSHEAD
9546
CROSSHEADS
Friction Slitter
12.29
Ope rat or
Ope rat or
(one man/woman operation) Operator
(two man/woman operation) 2nd Man/Woman
12.59
12.79
12.49
12.24
Operator(two-operator)	12.94
til X-head operator	13.04
(two man/woman operation) operating with in-line cutter on X-heads larger than 4"
til X-head operator	13.19
(one man/woman operation) operating with automatic wind-up on X-heads larger than 4"
til X-head operator	12.94
(two man/woman operation)
X-heads larger than 4"
Department
9546
CROSSHEADS
9548
TEXTILE SPIRAL
973 1
DIV. "A" WRAPPER 9732
LEAD PRESS
9733
CURVED RAD
9734
BLOW OUTS
9735
FINAL END
37
Job Classification
#4 X-head operator (one man/woman operation) operating with automatic wind-up X-heads 4" or smaller
#4 X-head operator (two man/woman operation)
X-heads 4" or smaller
X-head Relief Operator Service (Tuber & X-heads) S tockman/woman 2nd Man/woman Reclaim Uncured Hose
Ope rat o r Cord Rewind
Oper at o r
Ope rat o r S t ri ppe r Wind-up Pot Man/Woman
Cure Operator
Synchronous Manufacturing
Cure Service
Wink Cutter Operator
Inspect i Pack
Pack Service
Sub Assembly
Trim 6c Cure Relief
Utility
Trim Saws non-relief
Mandrel Blow Out
ReeL-o-matic operator Coil, cut & Couple Foster Allen Cutter Mandrel Prep Service Clean 6c Print
Effective Feb. 6/94 (1) (2)
12.94
12.69
12.49
12.34
12.34 12.24 12.04
13.04
12.04
12.49
12.74
12.64
12.54
12.49
12.59
12.59 12.34 12.29
12.24
12.24
12.24
12.24
12.24 12 . 14
12.29
12.34
12.24
12.24
12.24
12.24 12.14
38
9737
OPEN STEAM CURE/REEL
Cure & Reel
12.34
9738
BLOW/REEL
9740
VERTICAL & WARDWELL BRAIDERS
9741
KNITTERS
9744
HORIZONTAL BRAIDERS/ WIRE WINDERS
Operator
Operator Operator
Operator Wire Winders
12.39
12.44
12.29
12.49
12.49
9745
DIV "B" BRAIDERS 9751
DIV "B" CURE/ FINISH
Operator
Strip & cure Wrap and/or Unwrap Wrap Ply Finishing Uti1 i t y
12.49
12.34
12.34
12.34 12.29
(l) Rates effective February 6, 1994 include 15$ general increase and 2 K Advance C,O,L,A.
(2
These rates will be increased as follows:
Effective November 6, 1994 Effective November 5, 1995 Effective November 3, 1996
20$ Advance
IOC Advance
20<: General IOC Advance
C.O.L.A.
C.O.L.A.
increase
C.O.L.A,
Unrecovered Advanced C.O.L.A. monies will not be carried into the next year of the contract.
All other C.O.L.A, increases generated through the lifetime of this agreement will be added to these rates as they take effect.
All Lead Hands selected by the Employer in the Hose Manufacturing Section will receive 20C per hour above the maximum rate in their department. (Rate does not apply to Labour Trainer or Team Leader Rate).
All Labour Trainers selected by the Employer in the Hose Manufacturing Section will when training receive 30C per hour above the maximum rate in their department. (Rate does not apply to Lead Hand or Team Leader Rate).
39
All Team Leaders selected by the Employer in the Hose Manufacturing sect. Ion will receive 7 5$ per hour above the maximum rate in their department. (Rate does not apply to Lead Hand or Labour Trainer Rate).
An employee in the Hose Manufacturing Section will progress from the hiring-in-rate ($11.4-9) by IOC per hour each month, based on merit, until the employee reaches the maximum rate for his/her job or until qualified whichever comes first.
(3) (4)
Effect!ve February 6/94
MECHANICAL	With	Without
SERVICE SECTION	Ticket	Ticket
Electrician	15.49	13.69-
Other Trades	15.34	13.54
Lubricate & Oil		12.99
All Lead Hands selected by the Employer in the Mechanical Service Section will receive 20$ per hour above the maximum rate of their trade. (Rate does not apply to Labour Trainer or Team Leader rates) .
All Labour Trainers selected by the Employer in the Mechanical Service Section will when training receive 30C per hour above the maximum rate in their department. (Rate does not apply to Lead Hand or Team Leader rates)
All Team Leaders selected by the Employer in the Mechanical Service Section will receive 75$ per hour above the maximum rate in their department. (Rate does not apply to Lead Hand or Labour Trainer rates)
	(3)	(4)
	Effect ive	
STARTING RATES	February 6/94	
MECHANICAL	with	Without
SERVICE SECTION	Ticket	Ticket
Electrician	15.04	13.24
Other Trades	14.89	13.09
Students	_	11.59
An employee will progress from the hiring-in-rate by IOC per hour each month, based on merit until the employee reaches the maximum rate for his/her job or until qualified whichever comes first.
(3) Rates effective February 6,	1994 include 15C general increase, 25$
advance c.o.l.a, and 25$ skilled trades ticket premium.
40
(4) These will be increased as Effective November 6, 1994
Effective November 5,	1995
Effective November 3, 1996
Unrecovered C.O.L.A. monies will contract.
follows:
20$ Advance C.O.L.A.
25b Skilled trades ticket premium
10$ Advance C.O.L.A.
25b Skilled trades ticket premium
20b General increase 10b Advance C.O.L.A.
2 5b Skilled trades ticket premium
not be carried into the next year of the
All other C.O.L.A. increases generated through the lifetime of this agreement will be added to these rates as they take effect.
INTERIM WAGE INCREASES
1.	The amount of interim increase shall be calculated and re-calculated as provided below on the basis of the Consumer Price Index published by Statistics Canada (1986: 100) and hereinafter referred to as the C,P» I ,
2.	First Year of Agreement:
(a)	"The base for calculation" - the average C.P, I , for the months of September 1993, October 1993, and November 1993.
(b)	The first adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay period following February 15, 1994. It will reflect one cent (lb) per hour for each full .096 points that the C.P. I , for the months of November 1993, December 1993, and January 1994 exceeds the base calculation.
(c)	A second adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay
period following May 15,	1994. It will reflect one cent (ib)per
hour for each full .096 points that the average C.P. I. for the months of February 1994, March 1994, and April 1994 exceeds the base for calculation.
(d)	A third adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay
period following August 15,	1994. It will reflect one cent (lb)
per hour for each full .096 points that the average C.P. I. for the months of May 1994, June 1994, and July 1994, exceeds the base for calculation.
41
(e)	A fourth adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay period following November 15, 1994, It will reflect one cent (ic) per hour for each full .096 points that the average C.P.I, for the months of August 1994, September 1994, and October 1994, exceeds
the base for calculation.
3.	Second Year of Agreement:
(a)	"The base for ca1cuiation" - the average C.P, I. for the months of September 1994, October 1994, and November 1994.
(b)	The first adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay period following February 15, 1995. It will reflect one cent (1C) per hour for each full .096 points that the C.P.I. for the months November 1994, December 1994 and January 1995 exceeds the base for calculation.
(c)	A second adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay period following May 15, 1995. It will reflect one cent (1C) per hour for each full .096 points that the average C.P.I. for the months of February 1995, March 1995 and April 1995 exceeds the base for calculation.
(d)	A third adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay
period following August 15,	1995. It will reflect one cent (1C)
per hour for each full .096 points that the average C.P, I , for the months of May 1995, June 1995 and July 1995 exceeds the base for calculation.
(e)	A fourth adjustment will be Calculated and paid as of the pay period following November 15, 1995. It will reflect one cent (1C) per hour for each full .096 points that the average C.P.I, for the months of August 1995, September 1995 and October 1995 exceeds the base for calculation.
4.	Third Year of Agreement:
(a)	"The base for calculation" - the average C.P,I, for the months of September 1995, October, 1995 and November 1995.
(b)	The first adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay period following February 15, 1996. It will reflect one cent (1C) per hour for each full .096 points that the C.P.I . for the months of November 1995, December 1995 and January 1996 exceeds the base calculation.
(c)	A second adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay period following May 15, 1996. It will reflect one cent (1C) per hour for each full .096 points that the average C.P.I, for the months of February 1996, March 1996 and April 1996 exceeds the base for calculation.
42
(d)	A third adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay period following August 15, 1996. 1 1 will reflect one cent ( id ) per hour for each full .096 points that the average C.P.I. for the months of May 1996, June 1996, and July 1996 exceeds the base for calculation.
(e)	A fourth adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay period following November 15, 1996. It will reflect one cent (Id) per hour for each full .096 points that the average C,P, I. for the months of August 1996, September 1996 and October 1996 exceeds the base for calculation.
5.	Fourth Year of Agreement:
(a)	"The base for calculation" - the average C , P , I , for the months of September 1996, October 1996, and November 1996.
(b)	The first adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay period following February 15, 1997. It will reflect one cent (Id) per hour for each full .096 points that the C.P.I. for the months, of November 1996, December 1996, and January 1997 exceeds the base calculation.
(c)	A second adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay period following May 15, 1997. It will reflect one cent (Id) per hour for each full .096 points that the average C.P, I , for the months of February 1997, March 1997 and April 1997 exceeds the base for calculation.
(d)	A third adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay
period following August 15,	1997. it will reflect one cent (Id)
per hour for each full .0 96 points that the average C.P, I , for the months of May 1997, June 1997, and July 1997 exceeds the base for calculation.
6.	The interim increase will be considered as earnings and will be irclujed with other wage payments on the employee's time card.
7.	In the event Statistics Canada does not issue the appropriate Consumer Price Index on or before the date on which an adjustments to be calculated, any adjustment required will be made at the beginning of the first pay period following receipt of the index.
3.	No adjustment, retroactive or otherwise, shall be made due to any
revision which may later be made in any published Consumer Price Index by Statistics Canada.
9.	Continuation of the interim adjustments is dependent upon the
availability of the official Statistics Canada Consumer's Price Index calculated on the same basis and in the same form as that published for February, 1994.
43
io. Each adjustment specified. In the interim Wage increase Formula will replace the previous adjustment, if any, In Its entirety except the fourth adjustment in the first year of the Agreement will be carried over throughout the second,third and fourth years of the Agreement,the fourth adjustment in the second year of the Agreement will be carried over throughout the third and fourth years of the Agreement, and the fourth adjustment in the third year of the Agreement will be carried over throughout the fourth year of the Agreement.
I+H-
LETTER OF AGREEMENT
COMPRESSED WORK SCHEDULE - 12 HOUR SHIFTS
This letter sets out the conditions under which the parties agree to implement a Compressed Work Schedule with twelve!12) hour shifts for all employees at the Collingwood Plant.
For the purpose of this Agreement, the Compressed Work Schedule is defined as the re-arrangement of working time that both reduces the number of days and increases the number of hours worked per day.
In view of the potential impact on the employees and operations and in order to attain equitable and effective practices for initial transition to the scheduling of operations onto the 6 2/3 day schedule, a joint committee made up of the bargaining committee of Local 83^ and the Employer will be established. The function of this committee will be to review and recommend practices for the transfer of personnel to the operations affected in keeping with the principles established in Article 6 of the Collective Labour Agreement and to attempt to resolve problems as they arise in relation to the implementation of the 6 2/3 day work schedule.
The Employer undertakes to provide the Local Union with a minimum notification of 1 month prior to the scheduling of the 6-2/3 day schedule.
The Employer undertakes to assure the continuation of the schedule for a minimum period of three months. It is understood however, that this will not prevent the Employer from adjusting manning counts to maintain an efficient operation.
Anyone removed from the 6-2/3 schedule due to the manning count adjustments will not be reassigned to such schedule until a further 30 day notice period has been observed, unless the employee agrees to waive the notice period.
The Employer undertakes to provide the Local Union with a minimum notification of 1 month prior to the discontinuation of the 6-2/3 day schedule whenever possible. It is understood that in some situations advance notice will not be possible.
In the event the Compressed Work Schedule is terminated, the 6-2/3 day, Four (4)Crew Work Schedule will be implemented in accordance with the Collective Labour Agreement. However, if the Committee mutually agrees upon a different 6-2/3 Day, Four (^) Crew Work Schedule it may be adopted in place of the 6 2/3 Day, Four (4) Crew Work schedule in the Collective Labour Agreement.
45
AMENDMENTS TO THE COLLECTIVE LABOUR AGREEMENT
The terms and conditions of the Collective Labour Agreement will apply to all employees who are scheduled on the Compressed Work Schedule, with the following exceptions:
ARTICLE 4 - Hours of Work
In reference to Section 4.01, as per Appendix "A" for employees on the Compressed Work Schedule, the regular weekly schedule is an average of forty (40) hours, based on a thirty-two (32) hour and forty-eight (4 8) hour rotation, within a period from 8:00 a.m. Sunday to 8:00 a,m,Sunday, (In any week in which a designated holiday occurs, the weekly hours may vary.)
OVERTIME HOURS
In reference to Section 4.02, "Overtime Work" means all time worked in excess of an employee's regular eight ( 8) hour or twelve (12) hour shift schedule.
ARTICLE 5- Rates of Pay
In reference to Section 5,03, all overtime work shall be paid at the rate of time and one-half, except the period from midnight Saturday to midnight Sunday, when double time will be paid.
SHIFT PREMIUM
In reference to Section 5,08, for employees on the Compressed Work Schedule, shift premium payment shall be granted as follows:
For all hours worked between 4:00 p,m. and 12:00 a.m. - $.35 per hour.
For all hours worked between 12:00 a.m. and 8:00 a.m. - $.40 per hour.
JURY DUTY
In reference to Section 5,10, for employees on the Compressed Work Schedule, an employee who is required to serve on a jury or as a witness subpoenaed by the Crown shall be paid the difference between the amount paid for such service and his/her average hourly earnings for time lost from his/her regularly scheduled work shift of twelve (12) hours by reason of such service.
BEREAVEMENT
In reference to Section 5.11, for employees on the Compressed Work Schedule, an employee will be compensated at his/her average hourly earnings for time lost by him/her upon his/her regular work schedule by reason of such absence, for a maximum of thirty-six (3 6) hours for each such death or funeral for bereavement as referred to in Paragraph l of Article 5.11.
All other claims for bereavement will be compensated as referred to in Paragraph 2 of Article 5.11.
46
ARTICLE 6- Job Postings
In reference to Section 6,21, when an ope rat 1 on(s ) vacancy occurs in a section or on an operation on the 6 2/3 day work schedule, the vacancy will be posted in the section for seventy-two hours (exclusive of Saturday, Sunday or holidays).
ARTICLE 7 -Designated Holidays
In reference to Section 7.01, for employees on the Compressed Work Schedule, a holiday is deemed to be for a twenty-four (24) hour period from 12:00 a.m. on the day immediately prior to the holiday to 12:00 a.m. the day of the holiday, expect Good Friday, which will be observed for a twenty-four (24) hour period from 8:00 a.m. the day of the holiday to 8:00 a.m. the day following the holiday.
In reference to Section 7.02, subject to other provisions of this Article 7, an employee shall be paid an amount equal to one standard shift for each holiday, but not to exceed eight (8) hours pay for each such holiday.
ARTICLE 8 - Vacations
For vacation purposes, the vacation week is deemed to begin as of 8:00 a.m. Sunday.
47
ABSENTEE REPLACEMENT
OVERTIME POLICY
It is not the policy of the Company to schedule an employee to work for more than twelve (12) consecutive hours at one time, except in emergency situations.
OVERTIME COVERAGE
As the implementation of the Compressed Work schedule may present problems in filling vacancies caused by absences and other operating requirements, it is, therefore, necessary to establish a procedure so that employees who are scheduled off will be available to work overtime.
Overtime record of all employees who are available to work overtime, will continue to be maintained and overtime will be allocated and distributed based on departmental practices.
However, if the number of qualified employees, who have so made themselves available for overtime coverage, is not sufficient to ensure adequate coverage, a joint committee will meet to review the problem and agree to an alternate procedure.
If there continues to be a problem with providing adequate overtime coverage, the Company will designate employees to be available for overtime coverage
on their scheduled days off or terminate the schedule based on the terms of this Agreement.
ADVANCE NOTICE:
When an employee has reason to be absent on his/her next regularly scheduled shift, advance notice must be given no later than two (2) hours before the start of that shift, except in emergency situations.
RELIEF =
An employee, who has not been relieved by the subsequent shift will remain on the job until other provisions can be made, but limited to a two (2) hour period, while alternate arrangements are made.
48
12 HOUR SHIFTS
D	-	Day Shift
N	-	Night Shift
(A)	-	Afternoon Shift
(N)	-	Night Shift
EMPLOYEES WORKS-OFF:	2-2
8:00 a.m. to 8:00 p,m, 8:00 p,m, to 8:00 a.m. 4:00 p,m« to 12:00 a.m. 12:00 a.m. to 8:00 a.m. 3-2,	2-3 Rotation
S M T W T F S
SMTWTFS SMTWTFS
S M T W T F S
CREW NO.1 CREW NO.2 CREW NO.3 CREW NO.4
(N)	D D
(A)	N N
D	D	D	D	(A)	N	N
N	N	N	N	(N)	D	D
N N	N N
D D	D D
D	D	D	D	(A)	D	D	N	N	N	N	(N)	N	N
N	N	N	N	(N)	N	N	D	D	D	D	(A)	D	D
CREW PREMIUMS	//I - $.90 per hour worked
#72 - $.90 per hour worked //3 - $.90 per hour worked //4 - $.90 per hour worked
^9
APPENDIX TO COLLECTIVE LABOUR AGREEMENT 6 2/3 DAY. FOUR (4) CREW WORK SCHEDULE
This Agreement is made and entered into as of the 6th day of February, 1994-between Goodyear Canada Inc., with respect to all employees at Collingwood located at 101 Mountain Road, hereinafter referred to as the "Employer" and Local Union 834- of the United Rubber, Cork, Linoleum and Plastic Workers of America, hereinafter referred to as the "Union".
It is understood and agreed that in order to make full use of the Collingwood Plant, the Employer may schedule any operation(s), as required on a 6 2/3 day, four (4) crew schedule, as per Attachment A.
When it becomes necessary for the Employer to schedule one or more of the plant's operations on the 6 2/3 day work schedule a fourth crew will be instituted and a shift schedule will be adopted which would schedule each employee to work a regular schedule of forty hours per week.
In order to attain equitable and affective practices for initial transition to the scheduling of operations on to the 6 2/3 day schedule, a joint committee made up of Bargaining Units of the Local Union and the Employer will be established. The function of this committee will be to review and recommend practices for the transfer of personnel to the operations affected in keeping with the principles established in Article 6 of the Collective Labour Agreement and to attempt to resolve problems as they arise in relation to the implementation of the 6 2/3 day work schedule.
50
ATTACHMENT A
THE 6 2/3 DAY, FOUR (4) CREW WORK SCHEDULE
D - DAY SHIFT A - AFTERNOON SHIFT N - NIGHT SHIFT 28 DAY CYCLE SHIFT ROTATION:	DAYS - NIGHTS - AFTERNOONS
EMPLOYEES WORKS-OFF:	7-1,	3- L ,	3-2,	7-i
CREW NO.1 CREW NO,2 CREW NO.3 CREW NO, i
M	T	W	T	F	S	S
D	D	D	N	N
A	A	D	D	D
A	A	A	A	A
N N N N N
M	T	W	T	F	S	S
N N N N N D	D	D	N	N
A	A	D	D	D
A	A	A	A	A
M	T	W	T	F	S	S
A	A	A	A	A
N	N	N	N	N
D	D	D	N	N
A A D D D
M T W T F S S A A	D D D
A A A A A N N N N N D D D	N N
CREW PREMIUMS:	ft l -
in -
H3 -
in- -
OVERTIME PROVISIONS:
1st Scheduled day off: 2nd Scheduled day off: 3rd Scheduled day off: 4th Scheduled day off:
$.90 per hour worked $.90 per hour worked $.90 per hour worked $.90 per hour worked
time and one-half double time time and one-half double time
51
ATTACHMENT A	(cont’d)
The	Employer undertakes	to	provide	the	Local Union	with a minimum
notification of 1 month prior to the scheduling of the 6-2/3 day schedule.
The Employer undertakes to assure the continuation of the schedule for a minimum period of three months. It is understood however, that this will not prevent the Employer from adjusting manning counts to maintain an efficient operation.
Anyone removed from the 6-2/3 schedule due to the manning count adjustments will	not be reassigned to	such	schedule	until	a further 30	day notice period
has been observed, unless	the	employee	agrees to waive the	notice period.
The	Employer undertakes	to	provide	the	Local Union	with a minimum
notification of 1 month prior to the discontinuation of the 6-2/3 day schedule whenever possible. It is understood that in some situations advance notice will not be possible.
The terms and conditions of the Collective Labour Agreement will apply to all employees who are scheduled on the 6 2/3 day work schedule with the following exceptions:
1.	In reference to Section 4-. 01, as per Attachment A for employees on the 6 2/3 day work schedule, the regular weekly schedule is a five day, 4-0 hour week within a period from the start of the night shift Monday to the end of the afternoon shift Sunday.
2.	The provision under Section 5.03 will not apply to employees on the 6 2/3 day work schedule.
3.	In reference to Section 6.21, when a new operation!s) vacancy occurs in a section or on an operation on the 6 2/3 day work schedule, the vacancy will be posted in the section for seventy-two hours (exclusive of Saturday, Sunday or holidays).
52
LETTER 01
GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
101 Mountain Road, Collingwood, Ontario
LAY 3Z9
February 6,	19 9 4-
President,
Local Union 834,
The United Rubber, Cork, Linoleum and Plastic Workers of America,
Collingwood, Ontario.
Dear Sir:
During recent negotiations, both the Union and the Company have agreed that the following disciplinary procedure constitutes a very important step in the control and eventual eradication of drug-related problems in our plant, and that this action is taken in the best possible interest of all concerned.
The following are considered to be serious breaches of Plant Rules and Regulations, and offenders will be subject to dismissal.
Reporting to work or being at work:
1)	Impaired by drugs.
2)	Taking into the body (by whatever means l,e, orally, injection, sniffing, rubbing, etc.) any drug that might impair one's ability to perform his/her duties and create a hazard to others.
3)	Possessing drugs on Company premises, specifically drugs prohibited under the Narcotic Control Act for schedules "G" and "H" of the Food and Drug Act.
Yours very truly, GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
Diane Sabourin,
Industrial Relations Manager.
53
LETTER #2
GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
101 Mountain Road, Collingwood, Ontario
L 9 Y 3 Z 9
February 6,	1994-
President,
Local Union 834	-
and Plastic Workers of America,
Collingwood, Ontario.
Dear Si r :
As we understood in recent negotiations, employees required by the Employer to perform any of following operations will be allowed to take a twenty minute period, prior to the end of their regular shift,in order to wash up. These operations are:	clean out lead pots, clean out bag house, clean out
water tanks, clean out curve rad pits,horlzonta1 braiders overhaul, when stripping decks is required.
Yours very truly, GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
Diane Sabour i n,
Industrial Relations Manger.
54-
LETTER #3
GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
101 Mountain Road, Collingwood, Ontario
L9Y 3Z9
February 6,	1994
President, Local Union 334,
The United Rubber, Cork, Linoleum
and Plastic Workers of America,	‘
Collingwood, Ontario.
Dear Sir:
This letter will serve to confirm the understanding reached during recent negotiations concerning operations previously performed by the Mechanical Service Section.
1.) The following jobs are the responsibility of the machine operators:
CROSSHEADS:
VERTICAL BRAIDERS: HORIZONTAL BRAIDERS: KNITTERS :
Change Ferris belts;
Change in-line cutter knives.
Gear changes (all); Tension changes;Carrler changes; (broken and changeover).
Gear changes (all); Tension changes; Carrier changes, spring changes (broken).
Needle changes; Gear changes.
LEAD PRESS:
WIRE WINDERS: PRINTER <k CUTTERS:
Melt out lead trough; Melt out die block if possible.
Beaks; Tension checks; Speed changes.
Ferris belts; Change blades if necessary.
CURVE RAD:
Team Leader and Utility to change saw blades; Mandrels on and off.
TEXTILE SPIRAL:
Ferris belts; Change cutter blades.
56
LETTER #*■
GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
101 Mountain Road, Collingwood, Ontario
L 9Y 3Z9
February 6,	1994
President,
Local Union 834,
The United Rubber, Cork, Linoleum and Plastic Workers of America,
Collingwood, Ontario.
Dear Sir:
The following is an understanding reached between the Union and the Company at recent negotiations concerning operations previously done by Mechanical Service Section employees which are now being performed by Hose Manufacturing employees.
If during the term of this agreement the number of employees in the Mechanical Service Section drops to seventeen (17), the following operations will be returned to the Mechanical Service Section. For this provision only, electricians shall not be included.
VERTICAL BRAIDERS:	Gear changes, if	puller	required;
complete changeovers.
HORIZONTAL BRAIDERS:	Gear changes, if	puller	required.
WIRE WINDERS:	Tension checks.
Yours very truly, GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
Diane Sabou r i n,
Industrial Relations Manager.
57
LETTER #5
GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
101 Mountain Road, Collingwood, Ontario
L9Y 3Z9
February 6 ,	19 9 4-
President,
Local Union 83k,
The United Rubber, Cork, Linoleum and Plastic Workers of America,
Collingwood, Ontario.
Dear S ir :
The following will confirm the Company policy with respect to the scheduling of vacations:
While it remains that the scheduling of vacations is subject to approval by the Employer, the opportunity to schedule vacation will first be given to the employee with the most factory seniority, in the department concerned, and will carry on from there in declining order of seniority.
Yours very truly, GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
Diane Sabourin,
Industrial Relations Manager.
58
LETTER #6
GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
10i Mountain Road, Collingwood, Ontario
L 9 Y 3 Z 9
February 6,	19 94-
President,
Local Union 834,
The United Rubber, Cork, Linoleum and Plastic Workers of America,
Collingwood, Ontario.
Dear Si r :
During recent negotiations the Company has undertaken the pertaining to a plant vacation shutdown:
If the Company decision is to schedule a two week plant vacation it will be scheduled during the months of July or August and such would be communicated to the employees prior to April 30th of whenever possible.
Yours very truly, GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
Diane Sabourin,
Industrial Relations Manager.
following
shutdown, decision the year
59
LETTER #7
GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
101 Mountain Road, Collingwood, Ontario
L9Y 3Z9
February 6,	1994-
President ,
Local Union 834,
The United Rubber, Cork, Linoleum and Plastic Workers of America,
Collingwood, Ontario.
Dear Si r :
This will confirm the Company policy with respect to employees who are absent from work by reason of illness and are accumulating seniority under the terms of the Collective Labour Agreement.
The Company will establish a system wherein it will notify such employees and the secretary of the Local Union 834 at least thirty days in advance of the date on which the accumulation of seniority expires. This does not relieve the employee of the responsibility of making application for any benefits to which he/she is entitled under the terms of the various Agreements between the Company and the Union and which benefits are dependent upon the employee accumulating seniority in order to qualify for a benefit.
Yours very truly, GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
Diane Sabour i n,
Industrial Relations Manager.
60
LETTER #8
GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
101 Mountain Road, Collingwood, Ontario
L9Y 3Z9
February 6 ,	19 9 4-
Pres i dent,
Local Union 83^,
The United Rubber, Cork, Linoleum	•
and Plastic Workers of America,
Collingwood, Ontario.
Dear Sir:
An employee who is absent from work because of bodily Injury caused by accident or sickness and who has accumulated seniority and service in accordance with the provisions ot Section 6,05 shall be entitled to retain such accumulated service and seniority together with his/her prior credited service and seniority as long as he/she remains disabled because of injury and Is not able to return to work or to accept other employment. If he/she should accept other employment during such absence he/she shall be deemed to have resigned.
Yours very truly,
GOODYEAR CANADA INC
Diane Sabour i n,
Industrial Relations Manager.
61
LETTER #9
GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
101 Mountain Road, Collingwood, Ontario
L9Y 3Z9
February 6,	19 9 4
President,
Local Union 334,
The United Rubber, Cork, Linoleum and Plastic Workers of America,
Col lingwood, Ontario.
Dear Sir:
This letter will serve to confirm the understanding reached during the recent negotiations concerning the status of students employed during the school vacation period. It will be understood that those students hired to perform and actually performing work normally carried out by members of the Bargaining Unit will be considered to be "employees" solely for the application of Article 9 of the present Collective Labour Agreement.
Should the student subsequently submit a successful application for permanent employment, it will also be understood he/she would be hired as a new employee and would have to successfully complete his/her probationary period, as outlined in Article 2.01 (d) of the C.L.A. and eligibility for benefits as outlined in Section 3, paragraph 2 of Health and Life Insurance Agreement.
Yours very truly, GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
Diane Sabou ri n,
Industrial Relations Manager.
62
LETTER #10
GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
101 Mountain Road, Collingwood, Ontario
L 9 Y 3 Z 9
February 6,	19 9 4-
Presi dent,
Local Union
The United Rubber, Cork, Linoleum and Plastic Workers of America,
Col lingwood, Ontario.
Dear Sir:
This letter will serve to confirm the agreement reached between the Company and the Union in the course of recent negotiations concerning amendments to Company policy on Safety Shoes.
Effective February 6, 1994- employees will be entitled to reimbursement of the purchase cost of safety shoes, limited to a maximum yearly allowance of $85, ($I50/Lead Press Department)
Allowance will be paid only upon presentation of proof of purchase.
Allowance will not be paid to employees to whom safety footwear is provided by the Company.
Yours very truly, GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
Diane Sabour i n,
Industrial Relations Manger.
63
LETTER //ll
GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
101 Mountain Road, Collingwood, Ontario
L9Y 3Z9
February 6, 1994-
President,
Local Union 834,
The United Rubber, Cork, Linoleum and Plastic Workers of America,
Collingwood, Ontario.
Dear Si r :
This letter will serve to confirm the understanding reached during recent negotiations regarding the purchase and usage of coveralls.
The Company agrees to supply and launder coveralls for employees in the Lead Press Department, Engineering Division, Stores and Cement House.
Yours very truly, GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
Diane Sabourin,
Industrial Relations Manager.
6 4
LETTER //12
GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
101 Mountain Road, Collingwood, Ontario
L9Y 3Z9
February 6,	1994
Presi dent,
Local Union 834,
The United Rubber, Cork, Linoleum and Plastic Workers of America,
Collingwood, Ontario.
Dear Si r:
During the course of these recent negotiations, it was brought to the Company's attention that, in spite of assurance to the contrary given by various Company officials, several employees continue to believe that they are being taxed at a greater rate whenever they happen to have a vacation pay included with their regular weekly pay on the same pay cheque. As we promised, we have verified with our people in the Computer Systems department, and they have assured us that the payroll system is set up in a such a way that any vacation card going through will automatically trigger an adjustment, to ensure that the employee is not taxed based on a higher tax bracket simply because his/her vacation pay has been added to his/her regular pay. We certainly hope this explanation is satisfactory.
Yours very truly, GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
Diane Sabour i n,
Industrial Relations Manager.
65
LETTER 013
GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
101 Mountain Road, Collingwood, Ontario
L9Y 3Z9
February 6,	19 94
President,
Local Union 334,
The United Rubber, Cork, Linoleum and Plastic Workers of America,
Collingwood, Ontario.
Dear Si r :
As discussed during recent negotiations, the following Memorandum of Understanding concerning transfers to the Mechanical Service Section will be applicable in the event that an employee is transferred to the Mechanical Service Section when he/sha is not fully qualified.
In accordance with Section 6.21 of the Collective Labour Agreement an employee may transfer to the Mechanical Service Section only if he/she is qualified for a job on which vacancy exists in that section.
The following is the outline of transfer procedures that will be followed when it is deemed feasible by the company to consider transfer requests to an operation in the Mechanical Service Section by employees who are not qualified at that time. This procedure does not alter the existing intent and understanding outlined in Section 6,21 of the Collective Labour Agreement.
Yours very truly, GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
Diane Sabour i n,
Industrial Relations Manager.
66
1.	An employee who wishes to be considered for transfer to job vacancy in ,
, , , , , , , \ the Mechanical Service Section and who is not qualified at that time may i file a written request with the Industrial Relations Department in accordance with the provisions of Section 6.21.
2.	If the decision is made by the Company to fill a vacancy in the Mechanical Service Section from within and no fully qualified employee has requested such a transfer, then selection will be made from transfers on file in accordance with paragraph (l) of Section 6,21 based on ability and previous experience as the prime criteria. If these factors are equal among the applicants, then the employee who has the greatest factory seniority will be given the first consideration.
3.	The applicant must agree to participate and complete a skilled trades Apprenticeship Program established by the company with the Ministry of Colleges and Universities before the transfer will be honoured.
4-. If the employee should fail ta qualify or it Ik indicated that he/she will be unable to qualify during the apprenticeship program period, he/she will displace the employee with the least seniority in the unclassified group in accordance with the second paragraph of Section 6.21 .
5.	Should a lay-off occur in the Mechanical Service Section at a time when unqualified employees are assigned to the operation affected, the unqualified employee will be laid off from the section before any fully qualified employee is affected.
6.	When an employee who has transferred in accordance with this memorandum has successfully completed the Apprenticeship Program period, for seniority purposes with Mechanical Service Section, his/her section seniority will be counted as from the date of transfer to the Apprenticeship Program and in the event of lay-off from the Mechanical Service Section, Section seniority as determined above .will apply.
7.	For all other purposes the employee who has transferred in accordance with this memorandum will retain his/her factory seniority .
8.	The maximum transfer rate will be the base rate of the operation from which the employee has transferred. The apprentice's rate will be reviewed every six months until the apprentice has successfully completed the Apprenticeship Program, at which time he/she will receive the skilled trades rate.
This Memorandum of Understanding does not negate any of the provisions of the Collective Labour Agreement but is a supplement to the Collective Labour
Agreement when applicable.
67
GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
101 Mountain Road, Collingwood, Ontario
L9Y 3Z9
February 6 ,	19 91
President,
Local Union 831,
The United Rubber, Cork, Linoleum and Plastic Workers of America,
Col lingwood, Ontario.	■
Dear Si r :
This letter will serve to confirm the understanding reached during recent negotiations outlining the policy on how to handle overtime hours missed by an employee.
1 . The employee will notify their Supervisor they had been over looked in error when overtime was being distributed.
2.	If the Supervisor	agrees, then the missed employee will	advise the
Supervisor of the	days he/she is available to work overtime over the
next five days to make up for the hours missed.
3.	If the employee advises his/her Supervisor he/she is unavailable to work overtime during the next five days, then the overtime hours will be deducted at this time from the employee's refused hours.
1. The Company will not offer missed overtime hours more than three times over this five day period.
5,	If overtime hours	missed are not made up within the five	day period
then the missed overtime hours will be reduced from the	employee's
refused hours.
6 . An employee who has been missed two times in any 8 month period will receive payment for overtime missed.
Yours very truly, GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
Diane Sabourin,
Industrial Relations Manager.
68
LETTER #15
GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
101 Mountain Road, Collingwood, Ontario
L9Y 3Z9
February 6,	1 9 9 R-
President,
Local Union 834,
The United Rubber, Cork, Linoleum and Plastic Workers of America,
Collingwood, Ontario.
Dear Si r :
This letter will serve to confirm the understanding reached during the recent negotiations concerning the recording of overtime.
All overtime hours either refused or accepted will be recorded for each employee. However, if an employee is requested to work overtime in less than a four hour period prior to the overtime being worked, these hours will not be recorded against the employee if they refuse.
Yours very truly, GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
Diane Sabourin,
Industrial Relations Manager.
69
LETTER #16
GOODYEAR CANADA INC,
101 Mountain Road, Collingwood, Ontario
L9Y 329
February 6 ,	1997
President,
Local Union 8 34-,
The United Rubber, Cork, Linoleum and Plastic Workers of America,
Collingwood, Ontario.
Dear Sir:
This letter will serve to confirm the understanding reached during recent negotiations concerning the clarification of the term "qualification", Article 2, Subsection 2.01	(e). An employee shall become qualified through
filling in for vacation, sickness, relief or temporary assignments, provided the employee can perform all the functions of the operation in a capable manner. In the event of a lay off, these qualifications may only be used to prevent lay off from the plant.
No employee can gain qualification on a job while employees are on lay off or on lay off notice from that job.
Yours very truly, GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
Diane Sabou r i n,
Industrial Relations Manager.
70
LETTER #17
GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
101 Mountain Road, Collingwood, Ontario
L9Y 3Z9
February 6,	1994-
President,
Local Union 834,
The United Rubber, Cork, Linoleum and Plastic Workers of America,
Collingwood , Ontario.
Dear Si r :
This letter will serve to confirm the understanding reached during the recent negotiations concerning Article 6.23.
The classified and unclassified jobs listed below may be changed from time to time, provided there is mutual agreement between the Union and the Emp1 oyer.
DEPARTMENT	CLASSIFIED	UNCLASSIFIED
9321
STORES
S toreman/woman
Shipping 4c Warehouse Pool Receiving 4c/or Shipping Clerk
9437
CEMENT HOUSE
Cement House
9541
SLITTER
Friction Slitter
9542
PLASTIC EXTRUDER
Operator
9543
TUBER
Operator 2nd man/woman
954s
DIV"B" POLE CROSSHEAD
Operat o r
9546
CROSSHEADS
Operator 2nd man/woman
Crosshead Relief Operator

Service
Reclaim Uncured Hose
DEPARTMENT
71
CLASSIFIED
UNCIASStPIED
9548
TEXTILE SPIRAL
9731
DIV. "A" WRAPPER
9732
LEAD PRESS
9733
CURVED RAD
9734
BLOW-OUTS
9735
FINAL END
9737
OPEN STEAM CURE/REEL
9738
BLOW/REEL
9740
VERTICAL/WARDWELL
BRAIDERS
9741
KNITTERS
9744
HORIZONTAL BRAIDERS/ WIRE WINDERS
9745
DIV"B" BRAIDERS 975 1
DIV "B" CURE/FINISH
Operator
Cord rewind
Ope rator
Operator
Stripper
Wind-up
Po t-man/woman
Preparation
Cure Operator Cure Service Inspect & Pack Trim & Cure Relief Utility
Wink Cutter Operator Synchronous Manufacturing
Pack Service Sub Assembly Trim Saws non-
re 1 i e f
Mandrel Blow Out
Foster Allen Cutter Reel-O-matic Operator Service
Clean & Print coil, Cut & Couple Mandrel Prep
Cure & Reel
Operator
Operator
Ope rat o r
Ope rat o r Wire Winders
Operator
Strip <5c Cure	Utility
Wrap and/or Unwrap Wrap Ply Finishing
jobs that
72
The Employer will decide the classification category for any new are added to the above list.
Yours very truly, GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
Diane Sabourin,
Industrial Relations Manager.
73
LETTER #18
GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
101 Mountain Road, Collingwood, Ontario
L 9 Y 3 Z 9
February 6,	1994-
President ,
Local Union 834,
The United Rubber, Cork, Linoleum and Plastic Workers of America,
Collingwood, Ontario.
Dear Si r:
This letter will confirm the Company policy with respect to employees who are involved in a work runout prior to Section 6.25 coming into affect.
When a work runout occurs in the plant for one day only in a one week period the senior employee on the job and shift where the work runout occurred will remain on the job and the least seniority employees will be sent home.
If a work runout occurs more then once in a one week period then the hours of work will be distributed amongst all the employees involved in the work runout as closely as is feasible.
Yours very truly, GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
Diane Sabourin,
Industrial Relations Manager.
7k
LETTER #19
GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
101 Mountain Road, Collingwood, Ontario
L9Y 3Z9
February 6 , L 9 9 R-
President,
Local Union %7>k,
The United Rubber, Cork, Linoleum and Plastic Workers of America,
Collingwood, Ontario,
Dear Si r :
The following is an understanding reached between the Company and the Union at recent negotiations concerning Lead Press shower time.
1.	Lead press	employees will be	allowed to	leave their operation 18 minutes
before the	end of their shift in order	to wash up. This 18 minutes will
be paid at regular time.
2.	They will be allowed to punch out 18 minutes before the end of the shift and still be paid the 18 minutes at regular time.
3.	This will apply only once on a day to day basis except where an employee is called back during the same day on an emergency basis.
k,	If they are required by the	Employer to finish out their shift instead
of leaving	early, they will	receive 18	minutes extra pay at time and a
half.
Yours very truly,
GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
Diane Sabou ri n,
Industrial Relations Manager.
75
LETTER #20
GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
101 Mountain Road, Collingwood, Ontario
L 9 Y 3 Z 9
February 6,	19 94-
President,	,
Local Union 834,
The United Rubber, Cork, Linoleum and Plastic Workers of America,
Collingwood, Ontario.
Dear Sir:
This letter will confirm the understanding reached during recent negotiations that:
An employee who is in receipt of Weekly Indemnity payments or an employee who is absent because of an occupational injury and is in receipt of Workers’ Compensation payments will be credited with accumulated seniority up to the date of a lay-off solely for the purpose of determining his/her position in the order of lay-off or in the order of recall. For any and all other purposes, seniority accumulated during absence from work will only be credited upon return to active employment.
Yours very truly, GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
Diane Sabourin,
Industrial Relations Manager.
76
LETTER f/Zl
GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
101 Mountain Road, Collingwood, Ontario
L 9 Y 3 Z 9
February 6, i99^
Presi dent ,
Local Union 834,
The United Rubber, Cork, Linoleum
and Plastic Workers of America,
Col lingwood, Ontario.
Dear Sir:
The following is an understanding reached between the Company and the Union
at recent negotiations regarding Team Leaders:
1.	Effective May 2nd, 1991 Team Leaders will be appointed by the Company.
2 .	Team Leaders will be appointed from within the Team unless mutually
agreed.
3,	Rate of pay shall be as per Appendix "A".
4,	An employee who has been appointed as a Team Leader and Is no longer required as, or is disqualified as a Team Leader will return to the previous job position they held prior to appointment as a Team Leader.
5.	If cutbacks occur resulting in layoff the employee will return to the job which he/$he previously performed and will find his/her rightful position as outlined in Article 6, Section 6.12.
6.	If a Team Leader should leave a Team and the Team Leader's position needs to be filled, then the position will be filled in accordance with item " 1,f.
Yours very truly, GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
Diane Sabourin,
Industrial Relations Manager.
77
GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
101 Mountain Road, Collingwood, Ontario
L9Y 3Z9
February 6 ,	19 94
President,	.
Local Union 334,
The United Rubber, Cork, Linoleum and Plastic Workers of America,
Collingwood, Ontario.
Dear Si r :
This letter will serve to confirm the understanding reached between the Company and the Union regarding floating holidays as referred to in Section 7.02.
1. Floating holidays will be scheduled to fall between Christmas and New Year’s Day for the duration of this Collective Labour Agreement.
2 , The floaters are fixed as agreed unless legislation during the duration of this Collective Agreement provides for additional designated holidays at which time we would mutually review any remaining floater.
Yours very truly, GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
Diane Sabou ri n,
Industrial Relations Manager.
78
LETTER #23
GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
101 Mountain Road, Collingwood, Ontario
L9Y 3Z9
February 6,	1994
President,
Pro yiden I,
Local Union 834,
The United Rubber, Cork, Linoleum and Plastic Workers of America,
Collingwood, Ontario.
Dear Si r :
This letter will serve to confirm the understanding reached between the Company and the Union regarding the possibility of a future plant closing as it relates to bargaining unit employees.
The Company agrees to notify the Local and international Union at least six months prior to the cessation of production operations.
Following such notification, the Local and International Union will have the right to discuss and explore with the Company any possible means of averting the closure.
If attempts to avert the plant closure are not successful, the Company and Union representatives will meet to negotiate the manner in which the closure is carried out.
Yours very truly, GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
Diane Sabou ri n,
Industrial Relations Manager.
79
LETTER //Z/f
GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
101 Mountain Road, Collingwood, Ontario
L9Y 3Z9
February 6 ,	19 9^
President,	,
Local Union 834-,
The United Rubber, Cork, Linoleum and Plastic Workers of America,
Collingwood, Ontario.
Dear Sir:
It is the Employer's intent to post the line-up by noon Thursday prior to the week to which the schedule pertains, It is understood however that from time to time revisions may be necessary.
Yours very truly, GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
Diane Sabourin,
Industrial Relations Manager.
80
LETTER #25
GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
101 Mountain Road, Collingwood, Ontario
L9Y 3 Z 9
February 6 ,	1 9 9 if
President,
Local Union 8 34,	.
The United Rubber, Cork, Linoleum and Plastic Workers of America,
Collingwood, Ontario.
Dear Si r :
This letter will serve to confirm that the Company and Union mutually agree to implement a modified work program to be applied fairly and consistently to all employees. Said program to comply with Worker’s Compensation and employment equity requirements. It is expected that this program shall be in place by June i, 1 9 9 A-.
Yours very truly, GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
Diane Sabourin,
Industrial Relations Manager.
8 1
LETTER #26
GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
101 Mountain Road, Collingwood, Ontario
L9Y 3Z9
February 6,	1994
President,
Local Union 834
The United Rubber, Cork, Linoleum and Plastic Workers of America,
Collingwood, Ontario.
Dear Sir:
It is the Employer's intent to handle requests for evaluation in a timely fashion so as to provide a response to the Union within a 3-month period. It i§ understood however that in some instances it may not he possible to
complete the evaluation in a 3-month period in which case the Employer will provide a status up-date on a regular basis.
Yours very truly, GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
Diane Sabourin,
Industrial Relations Manager
LETTER U27
82
GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
101 Mountain Road, Collingwood, Ontario
L9Y 3 Z 9
February 6 ,	1994-
President
Local Union 834	,
The United Rubber, Cork, Linoleum and Plastic Workers of America,
Collingwood, Ontario.
Dear Si r :
It is the Employer's intent to computerize the overtime distribution procedures to ensure consistent and equitable distribution of overtime as per Section 4.01 (2) of the Collective Labour Agreement.
Accessibility to these records will be limited to production management and the Industrial Relations Manager to ensure the integrity of these
Every effort will be made to have this system in place by January
files. 1,	1994
Yours very truly, GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
Diane Sabour i n,
industrial Relations Manger
Letter it28
8 3
GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
10 1 Mountain Road, Collingwood, Ontario
L 9 Y 3 Z 9
February 6,	19 94-
President Local Union 834
The United Rubber, Cork, Linoleum and Plastic Workers of America, Collingwood, Ontario.
Dear Sir :
The Employer agrees to provide payroll deductions to enable employees the possibility of participating in a Group R.R.S.P,
Yours very truly, GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
Diane Sabour i n ,
Industrial Relations Manger
8 4
MUTUAL AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE MANAGEMENT OF GOODYEAR'S COLLINGWOOD PLANT AND LOCAL 0834 OF THE UNITED RUBBER, CORK, LINOLEUM AND PLASTIC WORKERS OF AMERICA
We jointly agree to develop a world-class management/labour working relationship which embodies the following guiding principles:
OPERATING PHILOSOPHIES:
1.	Maintain a world-class competitive position for our associates and our factory operation.
2.	Continue to provide a healthy working environment accompanied by proper attitudes and responsibilities associated with safety.
3.	Commitment to provide our customer with product quality, productivity, and service that exceeds customer expectations.
4.	The parties agree to work together to overcome any obstacles during the duration of this agreement.
5.	Commitment to develop an atmosphere which promotes personal and team development. A Joint Process to plan for the future working together for common welfare.
6.	Develop productivity and general operating improvements to offset
	compensation increases,	and the	reby	enhance	job securi	ty.
7.	Commitment to openness	of plant	and	company	financial	performance.
8 .	Provide an atmosphere	whereby	all	associates work		to their full
potential.
9. By achieving these potentials, we position our operation for favourable consideration for plant modernization, expansion, and technical improvements.