ORIGINAL
BETWEEN:
Memorandum of Settlement
t
a REceiveo apf
Canadian General-Tower Limited
£ f'F.

:r«M. 3k>, d Ur
No. OF EMPLOYEES
NOMDRE | O'EMPIOYES
nwifanmujiwcaM
hereinafter referred to as The Company" and
U.S.W.A. Local #862
hereinafter referred to as The Union"
1.	The parties herein agree to the terms of this memorandum as constituting full settlement cf all interests and issues brought forward at these negotiations.
2.	The undersigned representatives cf the parties do hereby agree to recommend complete acceptance of all the terms of the memorandum to their respective principals.
3	The parties hereby agree that the term of the Collective Labour Agreement shall be from
March 1, 1998 to February 28, 2001.	^
4	The parties herein agree that the said Collective Labour Agreement shall include the terms of the previous Collective Labour Agreement which expires on February 28, 1998, and all Memorandums of Agreement not modified will continue in force provided, however, that the following amendments are incorporated.
a) All matters previously settled and agreed to by the parties prior to the date hereof as attached.
This memorandum is subject to ratification by the membership cf Local #862, the International cf U.S.W.A. and Management of Canadian General-Tower Limited.
Agreed Articles
1. Term - three (3) year contract.
2
Wages - 1st Year - 3%, 2nd Year - 2.5%, 3rd Year - 2%
Inequities:
Brantford Warehouseman -Colour Matcher/Mixer -(provisional)
Calender Operator -Assistant Calender Operator -Skilled Trades (Electrician, Machinist, Millwright, Pipefitter, Carpenter Powerhouse Operator, Oiler) Printer Operator
$0.25 per hour $0.40 per hour
$0.20 per hour $0.20 per hour $0.40 per hour
$0.20 per hour
Shift premiums- afternoons - nights
$0.43 per hour $0.53 per hour
3. Pensions
ai Pension guarantee.
h i	Base increase $10.00 per month effective March 1,1998.	*■
Effective March 1,1999- increase matching formula $5.00 increments up to a maximum of $35 00. Effective March 1, 2000 - maximum of $40.00.
Agreed Articles
1	3 0! (c.) - Partial closure.
2	5.07 (c) - Work performance.
3	5 08 - Replacement equipment language
4	5 15 - Job posting transfers.
15	5 27 - Plant recall.
6	5 29 - crew recall
7	5 37 - Union leave of absence
-	6 06 - Local union business
9	7 01 - Grievance procedure
13	10 03 - Bereavement
10 07 - Student rate '2	1101- Vacations
■3	12 01 - Supervisors doing bargaining unit work
12 03 - Safety shoes
tL Oh - r\
Amend to provide designate
Appendix A' & "D" - additions and deletions Letters of Understanding:
lete #3 #7 ff 17 and #19
Add
1 tiange
Outsourcing
Apprenticeship Program
Formal Colour Matching Training Program
Transitional Work Program
Alternate Shift Schedules
Long-Term Illness Replacement
Health and Safety
#6- Maintenance Training Plan
#8 - Contracting Out
#10 - Summer Shutdown
#16 - U S W A Journeymen's Card
#20 - Employee Education Program
Maintenance Training Plan:
Successful provincial exam.
Update Job Summaries Maintenance Department Appendix UB
Agreed Articles cont'd
19.	Flexible Benefits- changes as per handout.
20.	Calender sandblasting.
21.	Overtime guidelines.
Dated at Cambridge this
A day of February, 1998.
FOR THE COMPANY
0.09 Shift premium shall not be included in the calculation of an employee's overtime rate
10 10 The Company will pay a shift premium to all employees of fifty-three (53)cents Der hour for hours worked on the shift eleven (11) p.m. to seven (7)a.m and forty-three (43) cents per hour for hours worked on shift three (3) p.m to eleven (11) p.m
10 11 The shift premium for abnormal shifts shall be fifty-three (53)c ents per hour for hours worked from eleven (11) p m to seven (7) a.m and forty-three (43) cents per hour for hours worked on the shift three (3) p m to eleven (11) p m No shift premium shall be paid for hours worked on shifts which normally start on or after seven (7) a m and end on or before seven-thirty (7 30) p m
SCHEDULE A
Basic Company Contributions
$90.00 per month
SCHEDULEB
Effective March 1, 1998
Basic $90.00 per month. Matching formula $5.00 increments up to a maximum of
$30.00.
Effective March 1, 1999 -- increase matching formula $5.00 increments up to a maximum of $35.00. Effective March 1, 2000 -- maximum $40.00.
Pension Guarantee
During the period ofthe new Bargaining Agreement, Canadian General-Tower Limited will supplement a retiring member’s account balance by means of a Retiring Allowance so as to allow the member to purchase a monthly pension payable at age 65 and guaranteed for sixty (60) monthly payments in any event equal to 1.00% ofthe member’s account balance at the date of retirement. However, having used this basis to establish the supplement the member is free to purchase any other form of retirement income with full supplemented amount.
Services of a registered or a licensed physiotherapist. Diagnostic services when not covered by any government agency.
Charges up to $20.00 a day for care in a licensed private hospital, to a maximum of one hundred and twenty (120) days.
Purchase or rental of special remedial appliances. artificial limbs, etc., when not covered by any government agency.
Specialized treatments, such as radium and radioisotopes.
Ambulance services when not covered by any government agency
Payment to registered clinical psychologists up to a maximum of $250.00 during a benefit
year.
Payment to registered masseurs up to $250.00 per benefit year, but only when we are provided with a certificate by a medical doctor that such treatment is necessary.
Payment to qualified speech therapist up to $250.00 per benefit year, but only when we are provided with a certificate by a medical doctor or dentist that such treatment is necessary
Eyeglasses up to a total amount of $200.00 per person in any period of twenty-four (24) consecutive months when provided on the written prescription of a medical doctor or optometrist but not the cost of the eye examination. Sunglasses or eyeglasses for cosmetic purposes are not included.
Brantford Warehouse Memorandum of Agreement
The parties agreed to change voluntary loan transfer short-term basis definition to up to four (4) weeks.
\
MANAGEMENT RIGHTS - COMPANY SECURITY
3.01 The Union recognizes that operating the plant and the full direction cf the
working forces are the exclusive functions and responsibilities of the Company.
Without restricting the generality of the foregoing:
a)	The Union recognizes the right of the Company to manage the industrial enterprise in which it is engaged, and to determine the number and location of plants, the product$ to be manufactured, the methods of manufacturing, schedules of production, kinds and locations of machines, tools to be used, processes of manufacturing and assemblying, the engineering and design of its products and the control of materials and parts to be incorporated in the products produced.
b)	The Union further recognizes the rights of the Company to hire, retire, promote, determine qualifications and capabilities, transfer, demote and lay-off employees, and to suspend, discharge or otherwise discipline employees for just cause, maintain order, discipline and efficiency, and to determine standards of performance for all machines, employees and operations. The Company agrees to exercise these functions in a manner not inconsistent with the terms of this agreement.
C) In the event of a full or partial closure of the Company's Cambridge or Brantford facilities which will result in the loss of Plant.employment:
i) The Company will provide the Local and International Union with six (6) months notice if possible prior to the cessation of production operations.
jj) Following such notification, the Local and International Union will have the right to explore and discuss with the Company any possible means of averting the Closure, iii) If attempts to avert the plant closure are not successful, the v Company and Union representatives will meet to negotiate the manner in which the closure is carried out. Nothing in the foregoing is intended to restrict the ability cf the Company to implement a plant closure. The negotiation shall be restricted to those issues related to an orderly procedure of closure.
8
5 07 Notwithstanding the provisions of this article, the Company may place employees under the following conditions:
a)	Where an employee is fully qualified to perform a job for which no other employee can qualify.
b)	Where for the purposes of rehabilitating a company compensable injured employee where, as a result of such injury, he is required to be kept at work, or as a result of same he has a permanent partial disability but performs the work to which he has been assigned in a manner that is satisfactory to the Company In either case the injured employee shall not displace an employee with greater seniority
c)	Where an employee cannot perform satisfactory work due to age, health or other physical or mental conditions, such employee may be transferred to work which is more suitable if such is available If the employee is transferred he shall not displace an employee with greater seniority Failing placement, he may be laid off
Such consideration shall be limited to a meeting of the Human Resources Manager, the Union President (designate) and one other Union Representative
c IS lr all cases of new machinery, the Company will post all vacancies for the first crew If a vacancy remains after posting has occurred, then the Company will fill :re vacancies (vacancy) at their discretion. In making this selection the Company will take into consideration the experience and seniority of the incivtduals and the effect their knowledge and training will have on the succeeding crews. An employee filling a vacancy under this clause will be subject to the same privileges and restrictions as stated in clause 5.14
It is understood that new machinery does not include replacement equipment or machinery taken out of production for the purposes of redesigning, rebuilding or relocating. Employees affected by the above may be given temporary work assignments but will retain their job positions on that equipment or machine, consistent with the terms of the CLA.
5 15 The Company shall have the right to delay a transfer on the job posting for a period of time equal to the normal training period requiredto train a replacement. In any event this period of time shall in no case exceed two (2) months. (See Letter of Understanding #13)
5.27 An employee who, after medical verification, and in the opinion of the
Company, is unable to accept recall tb plant employment due to being physically incapable of handling the job to which he is being recalled will be returned to the recall list. When able to meet the required physical standards, he shall be notified of the next available job.
5.29 In the case where a full crew is recalled, the employee shall be returned to the positions in the job progression that they held at the time of the lay-off.
This clause only applies in circumstances wherein a department which had previously operated and was shut down is restarted within twelve (12) months.
5 37 An employee who is elected or selected for full time duty as an Officer or Representative of the U R.C.L.P WA or its affiliated organizations in the Canadian Labour Congress or the Ontario Federation of Labour, which assignment may take him away from his employment with the Company may apply in writing for leave of absence
Such leave shall be granted for the term of this agreement and shall be automatically renewed upon ratification of subsequent agreements
When leave is granted for this purpose, the employee shall. retain his seniority status for the term of the leave, only with respect to job placement upon termination of the appointment For seniority accrual for pension purposes see Article II of the Pension Benefit Plan, The Company shall have the right to refuse leave if more than two ( 2) employees are appointed or selected to serve as representative of the International Union and/or its affiliated organization
19
6.06 A seniority employee who is a properly designated representative of the Local Union shall upon request to his immediateforeman be permitted reasonable time off for the investigating or handling of grievances and/or attending to Local Union business within the plant. If such time off requires contacting any employee during working hours this shall be arranged by said employee contacting the foreman of the employee concerned so that the least production delay will result. In special circumstances it may be necessary for such Representativeto investigate a grievance outside his regular shift hours. The Company will pay Union Representatives for such time spent during normal shift hours and time spent in special circumstances as above at their normal hourly rate excluding overtime and/or shift premium, up to a total maximum amount in each contract year, equal to $10.00 per employee multiplied by the number of employees in the bargaining unit in the first month of each contract year. Any amount in excess of the aforementioned maximum amount will be billed to the local union on a monthly basis.
\
ARTICLE VII
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
7 01 An employee who has a complaint sh$ll discuss same with his immediate
foreman either directly or with his steward If the complaint is not settled, it may be treated as a grievance and thereafter processed through the following steps in sequence
Any and all cf the time limits set out in this Article may be extended by mutual consent in writing.
Step No. 1
The grievance shall be reduced to writing, dated and presented to the Supervisor involved, within thirty (30) normal working days of the alleged ncident leading to the grievance A meeting will then be arranged within three 13) normal working days subsequent to the date the grievance is received by the Supervisor The grievance will be taken up by the Supervisor and Union Steward Such Union representation shall include the grievor The Supervisor <vi 11 render his decision in writing within three (3) normal working days after the conclusion of the meeting(s) on said grievance
Step No. 2
Failing settlement of step No. 1, a grievance meeting will be arranged by the Department Manager within five (5) normal working days subsequent to the date of the Supervisor's written decision. The Department Manager arid the Area Steward (cr appropriate representative) shall attend, the grievor may attend. The Department Manager will render his decision in .vr ting within three (3) normal working days after the conclusion of the meeting(s) on said grievance
Step No. 3
Failing settlement at Step No 2. the grievance may be taken up by the negotiating committee, with the Company management committee within thirty-rive 135) normal working days subsequent to the date of the Department Manager's written decision The Management Labour Consultant may attend ucon request of the Company An International Representative of the Union may attend upon request cf the Union The Supervisor and/or Department Manager and/or Area Steward may be required to attend. The authorized member of the management committee will render the decision of such committee in writing within three (3) normal working days after the conclusion of such meeting(s) on said grievance
Suspension except those of a severe nature (eg sabotage, fighting, assault, theft use of chemical substances etc ) shall not be served until the arievance
20
has been disposed of up to and including Step No. 3 above
Suspensions arising from actions cf a severe nature shall be taken up at Step No. 3 within seven (7) days of the Union filing a grievance with the Company,
Step No. 4
Any grievance arising from the interpretation. application administration or alleged violation ofthis-agreement which has not been settled under the grievance procedure, including any question as to whether a matter is arbitrable may within but not more than thirty-five (35) normal working days after the completion cf Step No 3, be submitted to arbitration by either party When either party to this agreement requests that a grievance be submitted to arbitration they shall make such request in writing and address same to the other party
The parties shall than proceed to arbitration as provided for under the Ontario Labour Relations Act
10.03 A seniority employee who is excused from work by the Company because of a death in the
employee's immediate family shall be paid for time lost by him during the normal work week for five (5) normal work days for current spouse, son or daughter. Three (3)normal work days for the following immediate family members:
Mother, father or legal guardian, current mother-in law or father-in-law, brother or sister, son-in-law or daughter-in-law, grandparents, grandchildren, step parents and step children.
Payment for time lost by a seniority employee during his normal work week shall be limited to the day of the funeral for current brother-in-law, sister-in-law, foster parents, foster child, spouse's grandparents, spouse's brother-in-lawand sister-in-law. The rate of pay for time lost underthis clause shall be his normal hourly rate. If the employee is eligible for any other form of renumeration to which the Company contributes, payment shall not be made underthis clause for such day(s). Exception, when a death occurs during a vacation period, vacation day(s) will be taken at a latertime at the standard rate.
In those cases wherein circumstances of travel and funeral arrangements require the seniority employee to have additional leave in excess of three days, he may request such leave and it shall not be unreasonably denied. In these circumstances, payment for such leave shall not exceed two additional days and such leave shall be available only in circumstances related to the passing of immediate family members.
10 07 The starting rate for hourly rated classifications shall be $1.00 per hour below the lowest hourly rate for new permanent employees for the first thirty (30) days of employment regardless of the job performed. Employees hired as temporary summer workers shall be paid $14.00 per hour for all normal hours regardless of the job performed for the term of their employment
1101 An employee who has one (1) or more years of seniority as of the current calendar year shall be granted a vacation, the entitlement of wliich shall be based upon his seniority and the payment for which shall be based on his seniority and a percentage of the employee's wages received by him from the Company from July 1st of the preceding calendar year to June 30th of the current calendar year (unless otherwise provided under clause 11 02) The entitlement and payment shall be based on the following schedule
Seniority as of the	Vacation
Current Calender	Entitlement
Group A
less than one (1) year
(includes probation employees) Nil
Vacation
Payment
40/
.4 / 0
Group B
one ( I)year but less than
ft\ e (5) years	2 calendar weeks	4.5%
Group C
f:\e (5) years but less
than ten (10) years	3 calendar weeks
Group D
n;n (10) rears but less
than nineteen (1 I ^ars	4 calendar weeks
Group E
nineteen (19) years but
less than twenty-five (25) years 5 calendar weeks Group F
t\> enty-five (25) years or more 6 calendar weeks
8.5%
10.5%
12%
Vacation periods scheduled as per letter of understanding #10/1 (a) will be scheduled in full weeks, Sunday through the following Saturday except for employees in groups (C), (D), (E),and (F) of clause 11.01 who will be permitted ta split all weeks in excess of two full weeks.
11.01 cont’d
Employees in Group B, who through circumstances beyond their control, needto split their vacation entitlement prior to the declaration of the summer shutdown schedule, may be permitted to do so, with the understanding that they may be required to take an unpaid leave of absence if their department or machine is not required to operate during the two (2) weeks ending with the Civic Holiday.
Beginning in 1999, employees will have the opportunity to once a year, at benefit enrollment time, to deciare their intentions to receive a lump sum cash payment in lieu of any vacation time in excess of two (I)weeks, (in weekly increments) payable the last pay period in June.
1110 Employees must take the vacation to which they are entitled during the current calendar year (exception: see “Choices” agreement and clause 11.01).
11 ! 4 If an employee agrees to work when called in to work while on vacation, he will be paid straight time and be required to take equivalent holiday time at a later date. If an employee is requested to work the Sunday before his commencing vacation or on the Saturday following his vacation, he will be paid at the applicable rate.
The following is the job progression for: Department #71 - Maintenance
Trades:
(A)	Electrician
(B)	Machinist Toolmaker
(C)	Machinist	(H)
(D)	Millwright
(E)	Pipefitter
(F)	Carpenter
(G)	Oiler Trainee (apprentice)
(I)	Powerhouse Operator
Service
(A)	Stockkeeper
(B)	Helper
(C)	Janitor
(D)	Environmental Helper
12.01 No employee of the Company or individuals of any outside source not covered by this collective agreement, shall perform production or maintenance work, (except as provided for in Letter of Understanding #8), that would be done by employees in the bargaining unit exceptforthe purpose of instruction or training employees, and in emergencies when regular employees are not immediately available.
In the case of new machinery and/or equipment, the Company will advise the Negotiating Committee the date such machinery and/or equipment has been accepted by Engineering and is approvedfor production trial runs, at which time members of the bargaining unit will be assigned to the machine for all production operations Prior to such acceptance and approval, supervisory and/or non bargaining unit personnel may do such tests as are required to permit acceptance by Engineering, and the Company will notify the Union prior to such tests If such tests indicate that adjustments to the machinery and/or equipment are required, they will be performed by members of the bargaining unit and/or by employees of the manufacturer	v
for the purpose of this clause only, it is understood that new machinery includes machinery taken out of production with the crews assigned to other machinery, dismantled, redesigned arid rebuilt, either inside or outside the plant.
12.03 The Company will continue to supply the safety and wearing apparel as normally supplied at the present writing and under similar conditions and as may be mutually agreed during the term of this agreement. Company subsidy on the purchase of plant safety shoes up to two (2) pairs per employee per year as follows:
Mixing. Printing. Blender/Banburv & Dry Laminator Departments Effective March 1, 1998:
1st pair of Leather or Conductive Soled Safety Shoes to a maximum of $100.00.
2nd pair of Leather or Conductive Soled Safety Shoes to a maximum of $75.00 subject to Company approval.
Employees must inform themselves as to the definition of "conductive soled" before purchasing Balance of Plant
Effective March 1, 1998	- $75.00 maximum.
- 540.00 maximum 2nd pair subject to Company approval.
\
APPENDIX "A"
The Company and the Union agree that the following are the Ceiling Hourly Rates for the classifications as herewith listed for the duration of the Collective Labour Agreement.
Department
36 Sample
Printer
37 #5 Cal 33 #4 Cal 3Q #5 Cal 42 #3 Cal
41 Die Cutter
m
Stockroom
inter
; Grainer soection
50 #1 Lam (T&M)
Occupation
•Sample Printer Operator
‘Sample Printer Operator Assistant
•Calender Operator
'Assistant Operator
Millman Feeder
Windup Operator
Die Cutter Operator
Stockman
Assistant Stockman
Serviceman
'Print er Operator
*Assistant Operator
Windup/lnfeed Operator
#4 Grainer Operator
'Fabric inspector
Material Handling Utility Operator
Serviceman
•Blender/Banbury
Operator
Blender/Banbury
Utility
'Laminator Operator *Assistant Operator Infeed Operator
DATE EFFECTIVE
Marl
1995
16.29
16.04
16.94 16.21 15.87 15.80
16.65 15.59 15 44
15.39 16.74 16.11 15.73
16.65
15.94 15.49
15.39 16.27
15.83
16.57
16.01
15.67
Marl
1996
16.59
16	34
17.24 16.51 16.17 16.10
16.95 15 89 15 74
15.69
17	04 16.41 16.03
16.95
16.24 15.79
15.69 16.57
16.13
16.87
16.31
15.97
Marl
16.89
16.64
17.54 16.81 16.47 16.40
17.25
16.19
\.
16.04
15.99 17.34 16.71 16.33
17.25
16.54 16.09
15.99 16.87
16.43
17.17
16.61
16.27
51 Calender Utility
54 #4 Lam.
55 Plastisol
56 #3 Lam.
63	#7 Printer
64	#4 Printer 68 #8 Printer 75 #3 Printer
65 Mixing
67 #3 Grainer
Calender Utility Man	15,80	16.10
*Laminator Operator
‘Assistant Operator/ Windup
Infeed Operator
'Primary Plastisol Operator
'Plastisol Operator
'Intermediate Plastisol Operator
‘Paste Mixer
Windup Operator
Paper Rereeler Operator
‘Laminator Operator
'Assistant Operator
Infeed Operator
‘Printer Operator
'Assistant Operator
Windup/lnfeed Operator
.‘Colour Matcher Material Controller
'Colour Matcher Mixer
‘Colour Matcher
Assistant Colour Matcher
Solution Mixer
Utility Operator
Asst. Utility Operator
'Grainer Operator
'Assistant Operator
Windup/lnfeed Operator
16.57
15.96
15.67
16.94
16.36
16.21
16,01
15,80
15.74
16.64
16.06
15.73
16.74 16.11
15.73 16.59
16.44
15.99
15.84
15.69
15.39
15.34
16.57
15.96
15.74
16.87
16,26
15,97
17.24
16.66
16.51
18.31 16.10 16,04 16.94 16.36
16.03
17.04 16,41
16.03 16.89
18.74
16,29
16.14
15.99
15.69
15.64
16.87
16.26
16.04
16.40
17.17
16.56
16,27
17.54
16.96
16.81
16,61
16.40 16.34 17.24 16.66
16.33
17.34 16.71
16.33 17.19
17.04
16.59
16.44
16.29
15.99
15.94
17.17
16.56
16.34
71 Maintenance Trades
72 Reclaim
30 Compound
81 Microperforator 33 Dn/ Laminator
90 Shipping
92 Receiving
Electrician Machinist Toolmaker Machinist Millwright Pipefitter
Powerhouse Operator
Carpenter
Oiler
Environmental Helper
Stockkeeper
Helper
Janitor
*Reclaim Machine Op.
*Assistant Reclaim Machine Operator
Relief Reclaim Machine Operator
Fork Lift Truck Op.
*Colour Compounder
Colour Weigher
*Perf./S!itter/Rereeler Op.
*Dry Laminator Operator
*Shipper
Film Wrapper
Intermediate Service/
Fork Truck Operator
*Receiver
'Assistant Receiver
Truck Driver
Warehouseman
18.74
18.69
18.69
18.69
18.69 18.90
18.69 17.86
15.99
15.39
15.34
16.29
15.69
15.47
15.49 15.94 15.61
16.65
16.04 15.67
15.49
16.04 15.64 15.54
15.49
19.04
18.99
18.99
18.99
18.99 19.20
18.99 18.16
16.29
15.69
15.64
16.59
15.99
15.77
15.79 16.24 15.91
16.95
16.34 15.97
15.79
16.34 15.94 15.84
15.79
19.34
19.29
19.29
19.29
19.29 19.50
19.29 18.46
17.25 16.59 15.99 15.94 16.89
16.29
16.07
16.09 16.54 16.21 16.34
17.25
16.64 16.27
16.09
16.64 16.24 16.14
16.09
Fork Lift Truck Op.	15.49	15.79
Inventory Cycle Counter
93 Brantford	‘Warehouseperson	16.21	16.51
Warehouse
Where an O appears this denotes classified jobs, remaining jobs are general jobs.
16.09
16.09
16.81
The following is the job progression for:
Department#71 - Maintenance Trades:
(A)	Electrician	(F)	Carpenter
(B)	Machinist Toolmaker	' (G) Oiler
(C)	Machinist	(H) Trainee (apprentice)
(D)	Millwright	(I)	Powerhouse Operator
(E)	Pipefitter
Service:
(A)	Stockkeeper
(E)	Helper
(C)	Janitor
(D)	Environmental Helper

APPENDIX "D"
WEEKEND CREWING
Where not specifically outlined in the body of this agreement, the following provisions shall apply for weekend
crewing.
CREW SELECTION
Employees currently working in the affected departments will, in order of seniority, be offered an opportunity to work the weekend crew beginning with the operators and following down the progression system. Job opportunities will be offered on a "job for job" basis. Upon completion of this step, employees who have agreed to work weekend shall progress consistent with Appendix "C". All remaining vacancies shall be filled consistent with Appendix "C".
Vacancies remaining on the weekend crew following this exercise within the department will be offered to the group on a similar process of transfer to the weekend and progression, and finally all remaining positionswill De filled by job posting.
Vacancies created on the five (5) day schedule where weekend crewing is in effect, will be treated in the same manner as above.
Employees shall not be required to progress from the five (5)day schedule to weekend.
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING#23
Mr C Renaud, President
Local 862. U.R.W.
Cambridge. Ontario
Dsar Mi. Renaud:
This will serve to confirm the following item of understanding reached during recent contract negotiations.
OUTSOURCING
The parties agree it is the intention that all work currently being performed by the bargaining unit at the Cambridge and Brantford facilities will continue during the life cf the contract.
If the Company finds it necessary to outsource work because of derqands of customers or economic conditions, the Company will meet with the Union as soon as possible to discuss viable alternatives and any possible means of minimizing the impact on employees.
Yours Truly.
D J Jackman,
Team Leader. Manufacturing
Acknowledged
C Renaud. President' Local #862. U R W
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #24
Mr. C, Renaud, President Local 862, U.S.W.A..
Cambridge, Ontario
Dear Mr. Renaud:
This is to confirm the following item of understanding reached during the 1998 contract negotiations.
The Company agrees to have a minimum of two apprentices in the plant skilled trades during the life of this contract.
The Apprenticeship Training Committee will meet to review the Maintenance Training Plan and update as required.
Yours Truly,
D J. Jackman,
Team Leader, Manufacturing
Acknowledged,
C Renaud, President Local #862, U.S.W.A..
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #25
Mr. C. Renaud, President Local 862, U.S.W.A.
Cambridge, Ontario
Dear Mr, Renaud:
This will serve to confirm the following item of understanding reached during the 1998 contract negotiations.
A formai colour matcher training program will be established with the purpose of allowing Mixing Department employees to attain a Colour Matcher/Mixer classification.
Yours Truly,
D.J. Jackman
Team Leader, Manufacturing
Acknowledged,
C. Renaud, President
Local #862, U.S.W.A.
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #26
Mr. C. Renaud, President Local 862, U.S.W.A.
Cambridge, Ontario
Dear Mr. Renaud:
The Company and Union agree this program will apply to both .occupational and non-occupational disabilities which are temporary in nature.
The transitional work program will not normally exceed eight (8) weeks in duration. It must be a progressive plan with the final objective of returning the employee to their pre-injury job.
Participation for occupational and non-occupational injuries where transitional work has been approved is mandatory.
Yours Truly,
D.J. Jackman,
Team Leader, Manufacturing
Ac knowledged,
C. Renaud, President
Local #862, U.S.W.A.
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDINGS?
Mr. C. Renaud, President Local 862, U.S.W.A. Cambridge, Ontario
Dear Mr. Renaud:
Alternate Shifting Schedules •
The parties agree to monitor the current shift schedules and work towards developing a shift schedule that will minimize the adverse health .and safety effects to the employees. The schedules must fully consider the needs and desires of the employees as well as the business agenda.
The parties further agree that as new business opportunities are realized, alternative shifting arrangements may be agreed upon prior to the staffing of any departments and/or equipment.	i
Yours Truly,
D.J. Jackman,
Team Leader, Manufacturing
Acknowledged,
C. Renaud, President Local #862, U.S.W.A,
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #28
Mr. C. Renaud, President Local 862, U.S.W.A. Cambridge, Ontario
Dear Mr. Renaud:
Long-Term illness Replacement
In the case of long-term illness, where it appears the employee will not be returning for an indefinite period of time, the Company may choose to progress {as per Appendix “C” ofthe Collective Labour Agreement) the qualified employee in the preceding jobs to temporarily fill the position. The remaining job will be filled with a Department #598 employee.
Yours Truly,
D.J. Jackman,
Team Leader, Manufacturing
Acknowledged,
C. Renaud, President
Local #862, U.S.W.A.
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING#29
Mr. C. Renaud, President Local 862, U.S.W.A.
Cambridge, Ontario
Dear Mr. Renaud:
During the life of this agreement the parties agree to operate within the spirit of the current Occupational Health and Safety Act.
Legislated changes to this act will be jointly reviewed for the purposes of understanding the impact on the represented employees of Canadian General-Tower Limited. The implementation of legislated changes shall not negatively impact the Health and Safety policies of Canadian General-Tower Limited or the health and safety of our employees.
The parties further agree to allocate up to a maximum of twenty (20) hours per month to a Union appointed Health and Safety Representative, for the purposes cf assignments as approved by the President cf Local #862, U.S.W.A. and the current Plant Manager.
The effectiveness cf the above is to be reviewed on a quarterly basis in the first year cf this Collective Labour Agreement.
Yours Truly,
D.J. Jackman,
Team Leader, Manufacturing
Axknowledged,
C. Renaud, President local #862, U.S.W.A.
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING#8
Mr. C. Renaud, President,
Local862, U.R.W.,
Cambridge, Ontario.
Dear Mr. Renaud:
This will serve to confirm the following item of understanding reached during recent contract negotiations.
CONTRACTING OUT
It is the intent of the Company to have maintenance work in the plant performed by Company employees where it is practical to do so provided that: no additional cost will be incurred, employees have the qualifications and experience to perform the tasks involved to specifications, that the Company has the necessary equipment to perform the work, and that the work can be performed within time constraints required by the business.
In circumstances where employees of the Maintenance Skilled Trades Group are on lay-off from plant employment, the Company will offer work of a short duration (i.e. -insufficient to warrant recall to plant employment) to laid off employees qualified to do the work before using outside contractors. Performing work for the Company under these circumstances shall not be considered as a return to active employment.
Whenever possible, the Company will discuss with the Leadhand and Union Steward in respective trade in advance to contracting out work.
There will be quarterly reviews (involving both Union and Management) to assess expenditures on contractors, both current and planned; to review the contracting out process and and to resolve any other current problems relating to contracting
out.
Yours truly,
D.J. Jackman,
Team Leader, Manufacturing
Acknowledged,
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #10
Mr C. Renaud, President,
Local #862, U.S.W.A.,
Cambridge, Ontario.
Dear Mr. Renaud:
The following summarizes the understanding we have developed regarding the practices the Company will followregarding the plant schedules throughout the summer months in order to provide continuing customer service while allowing ail our employees to enjoy a minimum two (2 ) weeks of continuous vacation in this period
This letter is intended solely as a basis of administration of schedules for these periods and does not diminish or in any way amend the terms cf the Collective Labour
Agreement
1	a) The Company will announce on or before the last Friday in March 1998
and on or before the last Friday in February effective 1999, a shutdown schedule identifying departments that will be shutdown for two consecutive weeks in the five (5) week period prior to the Civic Holiday in August. Employees in those departments will be required to take vacation at that time.
b) If equipment is taken off-line for maintenance purposes at anytime other than the last five (5) week$ before the Civic Holiday, employees may take vacation on a voluntary basis.
2	Employees not affected by the above schedule, will on a seniority basis within a job classification, select two (2) weeks of vacation most desirable to them during the five (5) weeks priorto the week following Civic Holiday.
3	Employees will be required to advise the Company the second Friday of April in 1998 and by the second Friday'of March effective in 1999 as to their vacation preference.
4. The Company will post shutdown and related shifting by April 30,1998, and by March 31st effective in 1999.
L of U #10 cont’d
5.	Weekend workers will have the opportunity to take two (2) weeks continuous vacation during the six (6) week period.
6.	If an employee’s status changes after April 30, 1998, and after March 31 effective in 1999, such that his vacation schedule is in conflict with the schedule of a required department, the Company will attempt to cover his planned vacation period. If it is not possible to cover his planned vacation period, he must work.
7 If the required department is subsequently determined not to be required,
employees who cannot change vacation plans will be permitted to complete their vacation as planned, and will be supplied work
8. Subject to Company approval, employees affected by 1(a) in the agreement may request to fill vacancies in other departments which are operating during this time frame provided such vacancies exist and the employee is qualified.
We believe the above arrangements meet both the needs of our customers and our
employees in a fair and equitable way
Yours truly
7! J Jackman.
Team Leader, Manufacturing Acknowledged,
C Renaud, President, Local #862. U.S.W.A.
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #6
Mr. C. Renaud, President,
Local #862, U.S.W.A.,
Cambridge, Ontario
Dear Mr. Renaud:
This will serve to confirm the following item of understanding reached during recent contract negotiations.
MAINTENANCE TRAINING PLAN
The Company will, during the term of the current Maintenance Training Plan, permit trainees to attend day school classes for three (3) separate eight (8) week periods. Trainees will be expected to attend such classes. During such periods, the Company will pay trainees the first two (2) weeks of each eight (8) week period their current rate of pay when U.I.C. payments do not apply.
The Company will also provide trainees with the current car mileage allowance payment as per Company policy provided such trainees travel to and from their classes on a one-car pool basis. In addition, each trainee will be provided with the current lunchtime meal allowance for each day attending classes.
Yours truly,
D.J Jackman,
Team Leader, Manufacturing
C Renaud, President,
Local #862, U.S.W.A..
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #16
Mr. C. Renaud, President, Local #862, U.S.W.A., Cambridge, Ontario
Dear Mr Renaud
U.S.W.A, Journeyman's Card
This will selve to confirm the following item of understanding during 1995 contract negotiations
The Company will pay for all licensing required of skilled trades, when related to their job functions
The Company will, upon request of the Union, provide a letter for a skilled trades employee to assist him in obtaining a “U.S.W.A. Journeyman’s card”. Such letter shall contain a statement in reference to the employee’s skills and qualifications that can be used in their recommendation to obtain a "U S.W.A. Journeyman card”.
Yours truly
Team Leader, Manufacturing
Acknowledged
C Renaud President.
Local #862 U S W.A.
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #20
Mr. C. Renaud, President,
Local #862. U.S.W.A.,	•
Cambridge, Ontario
Dear Mr. Renaud
This is to confirm the following item of understanding reached during 1998 contract negotiations.
The Company will continue to pursue Company-Union employee education programs with the objectives of enhancing occupational skills, providing opportunities for personal and career development. Such programs could provide services ranging from instruction in the basic skills or reading, writing and mathematics to computer awareness, new technology training. Union/Management related education and a tuition-assistance program.
Yoars truly,
D J Jackman,
Team Leader. Manufacturing Acknowledged
C. Renaud. President, Local #862, U.S.W.A.
Tintenance Training Plan
When a trainee has completed 8,000 hours of training on the job and related classroom instruction, and successfully passed the provincial exam, he shall be paid the rate of pay paid to skilled journeymen in the trade in which he has sewed his training after approval of his completion of training by the committee.
I
CARPENTER
Proficiently aiid safely layout, make, repair, modify and finish benches, partitions, cabinets,
material handling devices, doors, framework, windows, floors, roofs, office
furniture, structural woodwork, cutting glass and glazing, and forms for concrete work.
Carry out repairs to web correcting equipment such as expander rolls, edge guiders Proficiently aiid safely use and maintain hand tools and power equipment pertaining to the carpentry trade. Experienced in proper use of glues, adhesives, finishes and general carpentry supplies. Correctly read and interpret blueprints, specifications, instructions and sketches. Carry out preventive maintenance inspections. Make out and/or report payroll and production information Assist other tradesmen to the best ability during emergency periods. Keep equipment, tools, aiid work area clean and orderly perform related duties as assigned.
OILER
Responsible for the application of lubricants as recommended in our Organized Plant Lubrication Program to the moving parts or wearing surfaces of all plant equipment Exercise extreme care in keeping ail lubricants clean aiid insuring that the proper amount reaches moving parts. Keep pumps, tanks, sumps and other lubricating systems filled with the proper lubricants. Must maintain adequate supplies of lubricants and report on condition of equipment which he considers may require adjustment or repair x Service and repair carious types of lubricating equipment such as grease guns, automatic oil aiid grease distributors, air line lubricators and grease pumps Maintain and restore good iiousekeeping at machines and work areas by removing any excess accumulation of lubricants, clean oil pans and drip trays Maintain adequate supplies of conveyor belting and \'-belts L'se equipment, tools aiid instruments relating to the job as required and or as directed Make out and/or report payroll and production information Keep equipment, tools aiid work area clean aiid orderly Perform related duties as assigned
STOCKKEEPER
Dunes to consist of receiving, recording:, storing and issuing of maintenance equipment, tools and materials Reorder supplies to minimum requirements Report broken and misused equipment to supervisor. Use equipment, tools and instruments relating to the iob as required and/or as directed. Make out and/or report payroll and production information Keep equipment, tools and work area clean and orderly Perform related duties as assigned
MILLWRIGHT
Proficiently and safely layout, install, repair, check, inspect, adjust, maintain, dismantle and perform troubleshooting on all types of machinery and equipment m the plant pertaining to job and carry out preventive maintenance inspections and do incidental cleaning on all mechanical equipment. Operate efficiently tools appropriate to the millwright trade and perform basic machining and fitting operations. Correctly read and interpret blueprints. specifications, instructions and sketches. Work to specified tits and tolerances Use measuring devices and general precision instruments in erecting machinery foundations and in installing the machines and equipment in correct position and in aligning power shafting and pulleys. Perform minor electric and gas welding and cutting Affix special attachments, set dies, repair belts and conveyors and other similar duties Repairs to slitter knife holders and hoses. Grinding slitter knives Make out and/or report pavrol! and production information Assist other tradesmen to the best ability during emergency periods. Keep equipment, tools and work area clean and orderly Perform related duties as assigned.
OVERTIME GUIDELINES
1 Clause 8.09: "It is recognized that it may be necessary to work beyond the normal hours per day or week and the Union and employees will co-operate in performing overtime. The Company agrees that when overtime is scheduled, it will be divided as evenly as possible among the employees who usually do the work. When overtime is necessary due to absenteeism of employees, the Company has the right to loan employees from otherjobs to fill the vacancies. Failing this, the overtime will be divided as evenly as possible among the employees who usually do the work. The Company will give consideration to personal commitments of employees when overtime is scheduled. Employees shall nave the right to refuse offered overtime consistent with the Overtime Guidelines.
2.	a) The Company shall have the right to loan a qualified employee from some other job in the
Company, at straight time, to fill the job vacancy before overtime is offered to another employee.
b)	If there is no employee available as stated in (a) above, then the Company will fill the job vacancy on an overtime basis by requesting overtime of an employee or employees who usually do the job on the five (5) day schedule. Failing this, the overtime will be offered fo the employees on weekend crewing who usually do the job.
c)	If the employee who usually does the job is not available or refuses the overtime then overtime will be distributed among those employees who are qualified in the Company's opinion to do the job. The intent of this paragraph is administered through the application of section 7, 8, 9,10, and 11 contained herein.
3.	Foreman is to check with shift employees and keep a listing of those who agree to be called and will work overtime on the 11:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m. shift. This normally occurs when the Company has not been advised until late in the evening that the employee will not be in on midnighl shift and requires keeping the employee over who is on the 3:00 p.m. to 11:00 p.m shift and having the employee who is on 7:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m. come in at 3:00 a.m. and weekend shifts.
4.	The foreman is to keep a record and make sure that overtime is being distributed as evenly as possible.
5.	When an employee continually refuses overtime, the foreman will advise him that his is not going to ask him again until such time the employee advises the foreman that he is available for overtime again. Each time his turn comes up, he will be charged with the refusal. It is understood that in case of emergency or others not being available, he will be required to co-operate and work his share of overtime.
6.	The Company policy has been that no employee should work any shift longerthan twelve (12) hours due to the danger of injury from fatigue, except in extreme case of emergency or on the last shift of the week on the ie day schedule. The Company will advise the Union of such cases. There are no circumstances when an employee will work more than sixteen (16Jhoursina twenty-four (24) hour period.
Coverage For First Shift of Three (31 Shift- Five (5) Day Sphedule
7.	When a department or machine is short handed on the first full shift of the five (5) day schedule, whether it is a regular or an overtime shift, then:
a)	The employee who normally does the job from the shift two shifts later will be requested to work the full shift. Failingthis,
b)	The employee who normally does the job from the weekend shift, if any, will be offered the full eight (8) hours. Failingthis,
C) An employee in the department from the shift two shifts later, who is qualified and who has the least amount of overtime will be requested to work the full shift. Failing this,
q) The employee in the department who is qualified from the weekend shift, if any, with the least amount of overtime, if any, will be offered the full eight (8) hours.
e)	If the Company is unsuccessful in covering the first full shift of the week per (a) through (d) above, the procedure outlined therein will be executed to cover the first four (4) hours of the shift and the balance of the shift will be offered to the employee in the department who usually does the job on the foilowing shift. Failing this, it will be offered to qualified employees in the department with the least amount of overtime on the following shift. Failing this.
0 The vacancy will be filled at the Company's discretion
Coverage For Last Shift of Three (31 Shift - Five (5) Day Schedule -
Cc Weekend Crewing
3 When a three (3) shift department or machine is short handed on the last shift of each week, whether it is a regular shift or overtime, then the employee who normally does the job from the shift two shifts priorwill oe offered the overtime for the full shift. Failing this,
a)	The overtime for the full shift will be offered to all qualified employees in the department on the shift two shifts poor, beginning with the employee with the lowest amount of overtime Failing this,
bi The employee who normally does the job on the previous shift will be offered the overtime for the full shift. Failing this,	v
Overtime for the full shift will be offered to all qualified employees in the department on the previous shift beginning with the employee with the lowest amount of overtime. Failing this,
-it The overtime for the full shift will be offered to all qualified employees in the group on the
shift two shifts prior, beginning with the employee with the lowest amount of overtime Failing
this
e)	The overtime for the full shift will be offered to all qualified employees in the group in the previous shift beginning with the employee with the lowest amount of overtime, Failing this,
f)	The vacancy will be filled at the Company's discretion
aae For Five Dav Schedule - Three (3) Shifts Other Than First or Last Shift
a) When a department or machine is short handed on other than the first or last shift of the week '(per section 7 and 8), the employee on the preceding shift who usually does the job will be offered the first four (4) hours and the employee who usually does the job on the following shift will be offered the last four (4) hours of the shift. Failing this,
Dj Any hours not covered in (a) above will be offered to the weekend shift employee, if any, who usually does the job, beginning with the employee with the lowest amount of overtime.
Failing this,
c)	The qualified employees in the department on the preceding and following shifts, beginning with the employee with the lowest amount of overtime, will each be offered four (4) hours overtime as above. Failing this,
d)	The qualified employees in the group on the preceding and following shifts, beginning with the employee with the lowest amount of overtime, will each be offered four (4) hours overtime as above. Failing this,
e)	The full shift will be offered to the other qualified employees on the weekend shift, if any, beginning with the employee with the lowest amount of overtime. Failing this,
0 The vacancy will be filled at the Company's discretion
Coverage For 3:00 o.m. - 11:00 p.m. Shift Friday Where Weekend Crewing is in Effect
10 On a three (3) shift operation where weekend crewing is in effect, the following procedure will be used to cover 3-11 shift on Friday.
Request eight (8) hours overtime from the employee who normally-performs the work on shift #1 (11 00 p.m. -7;00 a m.) on the five (5) day schedule Failing this,
Request eight (8) hours coverage from the employee wno normally does the job on the 11 00 am - 11 00 p.m. shift of the weekend schedule (if applicable) Failing this.
Request eight (8) hours from qualified employees in me department from shift one. Failing this
Request eight (8) hours overtime from the qualified employees in the department on weekend shifts, (11:00 a.m. to 11:0Q p.m ) Failing this,
The employee on the preceding shift on the five (5) day schedule will be offered eight (8) hours. Failing this,
Request four (4) hours coverage from the employee who normally does the job on shift two and request the balance of the shift from other employees qualified to du work on five (5) days then weekends, with the least amount of overtime
The vacancy will be filled at the Company's discretion
Covering of overtime on weekends where one or two crews are in effect, the following procedure will be followed:
d;
Com -11:00 a.m. Saturday
Overtime shall first be offered to the employee on shift one of the preceding week, Monday to Friday, who normally does the job Failing this,
b)	Offered to the employee on shift two, Monday to Friday, who normally does the job. Failing this,
Offered to the qualified employee with the lowest amount or overtime from shift one in the department. Failing this,
Jl Offered to the qualified employee with the lowest amount of overtime from shift two in the department. Failing this.
e) Offered to the qualified employee with the lowest amount of overtime on shift one in the group, failing this shift two in the group.
0 The vacancy will be filled at the Company's discretion
.lift 11:00 a.m. - 11:00 p.m. Saturday
g)	Offered to the employee on shift three on the Monday to Friday preceding the Saturday in question, who normally does the job. Failing this,
h)	Offered to the employee from shift two who normally does the job. Failing this,
i)	Offered to the employee who normally does the job on shift one. Failing this,
j)	Offered to the qualified employee with the lowest amount of overtime on shift three in the department. Failing this,
k)	Offered to the qualified employee with the lowest amount of overtime on shift two in the department. Failing this,
l)	Offered to the qualified employee with the lowest amount of overtime on shift one in the department. Failing this,
m)	Offered to the qualified employee with the lowest amount of overtime, in the group, shift three first, then two, then one.
n)	The vacancy will be filled at the Company's discretion.
Shift 11:00 p.m. - 11:00 a.m. Sunday
a Overtime shall first be offered to the employee from shift one on following week, Monday to Friday, who normally does the job. Failing this,
b)	Offered to the	employee who normally does the job on shift two. Failing this.
c)	Offered to the	employee who normally does the job on shift three. Failing this,
d)	Offered to the	qualified employee in the department with the least amount of overtime from
shift 1. Failing this, .
e)	Offered to the qualified employee in the department with the least amount of overtime from shift two. Failing this,
0 Offered to the qualified employee in the department with the least amount of overtime from shift three. Failing this,
g)	Offered to the qualified employee in the group with the least amount of overtime. shift one first, then two, then three.
h)	The vacancy will be filled at the Company's discretion
Shift 11 00 a.m, - 11:00 p.m, Sunday
i)	Offered to the employee who normally does the job on shift three of the following week, Monday to Friday. Failing this,
j)	Offered to the employee who normally does the job on shift two. Failing this,
k)	Offered to the qualified employee from shift three in the department with the lowest amount of overtime. Failing this,
i) Offered to the qualified employee from shift two in the department with the lowest amount of overtime. Failing this,
m i Offered to the qualified employee with the lowest amount of overtime on shift three in the group, failing this, shift two in the group.
n) The vacancy will be filled at the Company's discretion.
12 Two Shift Operation
When a department or machine is shorthanded on the 7 00 a m to 3 00 p m shift
a) The employee who normally does the job from 3:00 p.m. to 11:00 p.m. will be given the
option to work either 7:00 a.m. to 11:00 a.m. or 11:00 a m. to 3:00 p.m. Failing this, proceed to next qualified employee with least amount of overtime from 3:00 p.m to 11:00 p.m. to cover four (4) hours on the same basis as above. Failing this, •
n)	Proceed to the group as above.
The vacancy will be filled at the Company's discretion
When a department or machine is shorthanded on the 3:00 pm lo 11 00 p m shift
The employee who normally does the job from 7 00 a m to 3 00 p m will Se given the option to work either 3 00 p m to 7 00 p m or 7:00 pm to 11 00 p m . failing this proceed to next qualified man with least amount cf overtime to cover four (4) hours on the same basis as above Failing this,
o)	Proceed to group as above.
The vacancy will be filled at the Company's discretion
rmoiovees will be charged with overtime refusals if they have on their departmerial file card notations such as "don't call me after "x" p m or don't call me" or has no pnone if in tne process of arranging overtime, that employee's turn for overtime anses
Tie overtime/absenteeism records will be posted on bulletin boards at the respective machines This will be done on a weekly basis on each Wednesday The records will indicate the overtime for the orevious week accumulated for the month and the totalled accumulated overtime for the three (3) orevious months The last posted report shall be used as the basis for administration from 11 00 p m
that day
It is understood that the administration of these guidelines might not apply to all departments. Alternative departmental administrative methods may be utilized upon agreement cf the negotiating committees.
" c On telephoning employees to set up overtime, the following shall apply
a)	If there is no answer to the call, then no refusal will be charged
b)	If the call is answered by another person but the employee is net home, the employee will not be charged and the next eligible employee will be called
16 It an employee is absent because of leave of absence, sickness. injury or vacation he will be considered to be unavailable and shall neither be asked or charged. Overtime eligibility for employees on light duties will be covered by the guidelines outlined in the modified work program.
A probationary employee, or a seniority employee who has transferred to another department and has not achieved departmental seniority, shall be charged with overtime accumulated by the average of the highest and lowest overtime worked by other employees in his Jobclassification within his de partment.
IS If an emergency situation where prompt action is required when loss or damage to plant, equipment, material, safety of personnel or machinery is concerned a qualified employee will be called. If there is no answer to the call or the employee is not available, the employee will be charged for this emergency overtime. This section applies to maintenance personnel or agreed upon departments.
19 If any of the administration clauses 7, 8. 9, 10, and 11 fail to provide coverage, the departments involved may work short handed and alternative arrangements for breaks, etc will be made.
2D An employee who agrees to work overtime and fails to fulfil his/her commitment will be charged with refusing overtime Ifthe employee notifies the Company that he/she will not be reporting, in accordance with Company Rule #11, then the Company will fill vacancy using these guidelines Failing this, the company may fill the vacancy at its discretion The Company will keep records of employees who fail to report after accepting overtime Ifthe practice continues the employee will be aavised that he shall no longer be asked to work overtime until such time as he confirms, in wnting, he is prepared to work all overtime he volunteers for
_ Emolcyees who have been loan transferred will be eligible for overtime on the third (3rd) day of the transfer in the job to which they were transferred.
- owever ifthe loan transfer is of a one (1) week duration or more the employee will De eligible for a /ertime from the first (1st) day, as he will be normally performing the job
it is agreed that all overtime worked or refused will be charged to the employee and his department records updated accordingly.
Health Plan
1.	Basic
2.	Basic + $150 Elective
3.	Bask +$250 Elective
4.	Basic + $750 Elective
5.	Decline
(must have coverage with spouse)
^ CGT pays +	$150	cost
.	$250	cost
$750 cost
+ • $800 Flex Credit
CHOICE 1. Basic Health Care Plan

Prescribed drugs with a pay direct drug card, reimbursed to t h e amount of a
generic equivalent, where available, and with a maximum amount of S7.00 for
the dispensing fee.	v
Vision care-up to $200 fur glasses or contact lenses for you and each eligible
dependent in any 24 consecutive months
Semi-private hospital accommodation
Stay in a licensed private hospital or nursing home
Services of a registered nurse or licensed practical nurse
Services of a speech therapist, physiotherapist and clinical psychologist
Rental or purchase of certain medical supplies and prosthetic devices -
including standard wheelchairs, hospital beds, oxygen equipment and other
equipment usually found only in hospitals
Hearing aids
Ambulance services
Emergency out-of-countiy expenses - including reasonable and customary-doctor’s fees and semi-private hospital accommodation required as a result of a medical emergency while travelling outside of Canada (up to the level that would be payable if the expense were incurred mside Canada)
Services of a licensed masseux
Each of these services and supplies is subject to competitive annual or lifetime maxim urns in accordance with the terms and conditions of the insurance policy.
CGT pays the full cost of CHOICE 1.
4 ! S724EE;
-i-
PAGE.004
Canadian General-Tower Choices ‘98
Canadian General-Tower Choices *98 Basic Plan
^ Basic Health Care Plan
Basic Dental Care Plan
^ Long Term Disability
^ Life Insurance
Weekly Indemnity
^ Accidental Death and Dismemberment
$1,200 per month $30,000 •70% wages $30,000
\
Each of these coverages is paid for in full by CGT
Employees will have the opportunity to pay for any enhanced coverage from Flex Credits up to $2080 per year. Employees are permitted to carry unpaid expenses, not covered under the Basic Health or Basic Dental, to the next year as potential claims under the Elective Coverage.
■2-
41G7246S51 PAGE.003
In addition to die coverages offered under CHOICE 1, CHOICE 2 covers 100% of any medical or dental expense as defined by the Income Tax Act and not payable under th e Basic Health or Dental Plans up to a maximum of S150 per policy year.
You and CGT share the cost of the coverage under CHOICE 2. Coverage under CHOICE 2 is available to you at an annual cost to you of $150 of your Flex Credits.
Choice 3.
In addition to the coverages offered under Choice 1, Choice 3 covers 100% of any medical or dental expense as defined by the Income Tax Act and not payable under the Basic Health or Dental Pians up taa maximnm of $250 per policy year.
You and CGT share the cost of the coverage under CHOICE 3. Coverage under CHOICE 3 is available to you at an annual cost to you of $250 of your Flex Credits.
Choice 4.
In addition to the coverages offered under CHOICE 1, CHOICE 4 covers 100% of any medical or dental expense as defined by the Income Tax Act and not payable under the Basic Health or Dental Plans up to a maximum of $750 per policy year.
You and CGT share the cost cf the coverage under CHOICE 4. Coverage under CHOICE 4 is available to you at an annual cost to you of $750 ofyour Flex Credits.
Choice 5.
Participation in the CGT CHOICES Supplemental Health Care Plan is strictly optional Ycu may decline coverage altogether and your Flex Credits will be increased by $800for the year.
■ 4-
416724665 I PAGE.005
1.	Basic Dental Services
2.	Basic + $250 Elective
3.	Basic + $500 Elective
4.	Basic + $1,000 Elective
5.	Enhanced Dental Services
+ $1,000 Elective
6.	Decline
CGT pays $250 cost $500 cost $1,000 cost
SI,300 cost*
$400 Flex Credit
employee required to participate in this choice for ai least 5 years
CHOICE 1. Basic Dental Services
v
•	regular examinations
•	X-rays
•	fillings
•	fluoride treatments
•	cleaning aid scaling of teeth
•	routine diagnostic and lab procedures
« consultation and visits
•	minor surgical services
•	100% of the cost of Endodontics (root canal work)
•	100% of the cost of dentures (complete or partial) - including adjustments, repairs, rebasing and r dining - to a maximum of SI,000 per person during the term of the collective agreement
•	all expenses are reimbursed up to the amount defined in the ODA Fee Guide for the prior year
CGT pays the full cost of C//0/C£ 1.
-5-
41S7246S51 PAGE.006
In addition to the coverages offered under CHOICE 1, CHOICE 2 covers 100% of any dental or medical expense as defined by the Income Tax Act and not payable under the Basic Dental or Health Plans up to a maximum of S250 per policy year.
You and CGT share the cost of the coverage under CHOICE 3. Coverage under CHOICE 3 is available to you at an annual cost to you of $250 of your Flex Credits.
Choices.
In addition to the coverages offered under CHOICE 1, CHOICE 3 covers 100% of any dental or medical expense as defined by the income Tax Act and not payable under the Basic Dental or Health Plans up to a maximum of S500 per policy year.
You and CGT share the cost c£ the coverage under CHOICE 3. Coverage under CHOICE 3 is available to you at un annual cost to you <£$500 of ycrur Flex Credits.
Choice 4
In addition to the coverages offered under CHOICE 1, CHOICE 4 covers 100% of any dental or medical expense as defined by the Income Tax Act and not payable under the Basic Dental or Health Plans up to a maximum of SI,000 per policy
year.
You and CGT share the cost of the coverage under CHOICE 4. Coverage under CHOICE 4 is available to you at an annual cost to you cf SI,000 of your Flex Credits.
CHOICE 5.- Enhanced Dental Services
In addition to the coverages offered under CHOICE 1, CHOICE 5 covers:
*	100% of the cost of Periodontia (treatment of gum disease)
•	50% of Orthodontia for dependent children to the age of 18 — including braces and space maintained (to a lifetime maximum of $ 1,500 per eligible dependent)
CemacEoi Gentrol-Tower CHOICES ‘96
• 50% of the cost of Major Restorative Treatments - including inlays and onlays, crowns and bridges (to a maximum of $1,000 a year p a covered individual)
«	100% cf any dental or medical expense as defined by the Income Tax Act and
not payable under the Basic Dental or Health Plans up to a maximum of $1,000 per policy year.
You and CGT share the cost of the coverage under CHOICE 5. Coverage under CHOICE 5 is available to you at an cornual cost toyou ofSI,300 of your Flex Credits. If you elect CHOICE S, you must continue to participate in this CHOICE for at leastfive years.
Choice 6.	'
Participation in the CGT CHOICES Supplemental Dental Care Plan is strictly optional. You may decline coverage altogether and your Flex Credits will be increased by $400for the year.
Canodurt Gaieml-Tower CHOICES “98
7
FEB 26 ’98 12:47
4167246S5 1 PAGE.008
Weekly Indemnity
1.	Basic - 70% Earnings	■+■ CGT pays
For up to 46 weeks
Long Term Disability
1.	Basic - $ 1,200 per month
2.	$ 1,400 per month plus CGT maintains Basic Pension Contribution
3.	$1,600 per month plus CGT maintains Maximum Pension Contribution
■*'CGT pays ■►$100 cost
$200 cost

«
»
Elimination Period Disability Definition Benefit Period .
-	46 weeks
-	Any occupation*
-	To age 65
Primary offsets from CPP or Workers Compensation apply
Any occupation to be limited to positions covered by the CLA for a period of 2 years.
Canadian Generai-Tower CBO'CES"98
8
12:47
41S724GB51 PAGE.B09
Life Insurance
1. Basic - $30,000
+ CGT pays
2.	$15,000
3.	$45,000
^ $ 60 credit ■► $ 80 cost
Accidental Death and Dismemberment
1.	Basic - $30,000
2.	$15,000
3.	$45,000
4.	Decline
+ CGT pays
#	$ 8.00 credit
*	$ 8.00 cost *►$16.00 credit
Emergency Medical Travel Insurance Plan
1.	Coverage Elected	$72 cost
2.	Coverage Declined	■►No cost
-9-
41G724ES51 PAGE.810
Cost of Eyeglasses	$350
Old Plan
Plan Pays You Pay
•	Coinsurance
•	Premium
$145
$205
$0
Your Total Cost	$205
Your cost is paid with after tax dollars.
16
FEB 26	'98 12:48
4167246651 PAGE.013
Eyeglasses Example
Cost of Services	$350
New Plan
Basic Pays	$200
Elective Pays	$150
Your Total Cost
In Flex Credits	$150
Your cost is paid with before tax dollars which are equal to $90 after tax.
Canadian General-Tower CHOICES ‘99
15
FES 26 ’38 12:43
4 1 G7246851 PAGE.014
Eyeglasses Example
Cost of Eyeglasses	$350
Old Plan
Your Cost	$205
New Plan
Your Cost	$90
17
3 2S '9a 12:49
41E724S651 PRGE.015
Retiree Coverage
■» Future Retirees
Health coverage will be continued in accordance With the Basic coverage. However the retired member will first seek reimbursement from the Ontario Government Health Plan for senior citizens, The CGT program shall reimburse the member for ail expenses in excess of the Government Plan up to the limits and extent of coverage of the Basic Plan. Other benefits are unchanged.
\
Retiree Coverage (cont’d)
■» Current Retirees
The Bargaining Committee and CGT will approach the current retirees with a proposal to provide an incentive to use the Ontario Government Health Plan for Seniors as a primary source of reimbursement with the CGT plan to pay only those expenses not covered by the Government Plan.
7