[si 1 Q^>! 0\
COLLECTIVE LABoumm^-j-^ff loSil 3&
No. CF
EMPLOYEES
MAINTENANCE TRAINING PLAN
L.LO.
between
and
LOCAL 862
UNITED RUBBER, CORK, LINOLEUM AND PLASTIC WORKERS OF AMERICA, AFL-CIO, CLC
1991 - 1994
INDEX
COLLECTIVE LABOUR AGREEMENT
Page
Article I	Purpose .............................5
Article II	Recognition..........................6
Article III	Management Rights. Company Security ..7
Article IV	Union Security. Deduction of Union Dues 10
Article V	Seniority ......................... 15
Article VI	Union Representatives .............. 35
Article VII	Grievance Procedure ............... 38
Article VIII	Hours of Work. Overtime........... 43
Article IX	Paid Holidays ...................... 48
Article X	Wage Policy ....................... 52
Article XI	Vacations .......................... 60
Article XII	General .........................   66
Article XIII Duration of Agreement ..........(^7q)
Cost of Living Allowance .................... 72
Appendix "A" Wage Rates ....................... 75
Appendix "B" Departments and Groups ........... 81
Appendix "C” Job Progression .................. 83
Appendix "D" Weekend Crewing .................. 91
Overtime Guidelines ........................... 96
Company Rules ................................ 110
Letters of Understanding ..................... 113
^ ^ainterwic^ig^ing Plan ......................... 138
1

Clause Page
Absence • Employee Reporting ................. 111
Address and Telephone .............5.02 ...	15
Arbitration .......................7.01 (3) ... 40
Bargaining Unit.......................2.01 ...	6
Bereavement ........................ 10.03	...	54
Break Periods........................ 8.10	...	47
Call Back .......................... 10.05	...	57
Civic Duty ......................... 10.04	...	56
COLA ........................................... 72
Company Rules ................................ 110
Discharge ...................... 7.08-7.09	...	42
Funeral ............................ 10.03	...	54
Grievance Procedure ..................7.01	...	38
Hiring Rate ........................ 10.07	...	58
Hours of Work ...................8.01-8.04	...	43
Injured Employee .................... 10.15...	59
Inventory .......................... 10.16	...	59
Job Posting ..........................5.12	..	19
Job Seniority ................... 5.03-5.04...	16
Lay-off Procedure.....................5.18	...	23
Leadman ............................ 10.14	...	59
Leave of Absence -	Personal..... 5.33-5.34	...	31
•	Illness............5.35	...	32
2
Clause
Page
-	Pregnancy ...............5.36	...
-	Union Business .... 5.37-5.38 ...
Loan Transfer ........................5.10	...
Lunch Periods..........................8.10	...
Management Rights .....................3.01	...
Meal Allowance ........................8.08	...
Negotiating Committee ........... 6.03-6.05	...
Overtime Payment ................ 8.05-8.07	...
Passes - Special Union ................4.08	...
Probationary Employee .................5.01	.,.
Qualified Experience - Capable ........5.06	...
Rates ..........................Appendix A .. .
Recall Procedure ......................5.24	.. .
Reporting for Work ...................10.02	...
Reprimands & Notations.................3.05	...
Return Transfer........................5.14	...
Safety Committee .................... 12.04	...
Shift Premium...................10.09-10.13	...
Statutory - Paid Holiday...............9.01	...
Stewards - Union..................6.01-6.02	...
Strikes - Slow Downs...................7.10	...
Supervisor and Office Employee........12.01	...
32
33
19
47
7
47
36
45
13
15
16
75
27
53
9
21
68
58
48
35
43
66
3
	Clause	Page
Temporary Lay-off			5.20	.. 25
Terminated Employment ...		.. 22
Union Dues			4.02	.. 10
Uninn Notices 			4.09	.. 14
	. .. 11.01-11.14	.. 60
Wage Policy 			.. 52
Weekend Crewing			... 91
A
COLLECTIVE LABOUR AGREEMENT
This Collective Labour Agreement is made and entered into this 10th day of April, 1991 between Canadian General-Tower Limited, hereinafter referred to as the "Company" and Local 862 of the United Rubber, Cork,Linoleum and PlasticWorkers of America, AFL-CIO, CLC, hereinafter referred to as the "Union".
ARTICLE I PURPOSE
1.01	The general purpose of this agreement is to establish mutually satisfactory relations between the Company and its employees, and to provide machinery for the prompt and equitable disposition of grievances and to establish and maintain satisfactory working conditions, hours and wages for all employees, who are subject to the provisions of this agreement, keeping in mind at all times that the welfare and prosperity of the employees is contingent upon the Company's ability to successfully compete in the sale of its products at a reasonable profit.
1.02	Both parties agree as to their desire to work in harmonious relationship and undertake:
a) That there shall be no discrimination, interference, restraint or coercion by or on behalf of the Company regarding any employee covered by this agreement because of membership or activity in the Union.
5
b) That the Union or its agents shall not, either by definite action or spoken word, intimidate any employees, nor shall they carry on any Union activities during the working hours except as provided for in this agreement.
1.03	Wherever the masculine gender appears in this agreement it shall be construed as meaning male or female unless the context of the clause requires otherwise.
ARTICLE II RECOGNITION
2.01	a) The Company recognizes the Union as the exclusive bargaining agent of all employees of the Company at Cambridge, save and except foremen, foreladies, persons above the rank of foreman and forelady, office and clerical staff (and which shall include laboratory staff, technicians and laboratory assistants, time study technicians, quality control technicians, electronic technicians, first aid attendants and draftsmen), and sales staff.
b) If during the term of this agreement, the Company relocates and operates any process or piece of equipment currently installed in the Cambridge plant within a 100 mile radius of the Cambridge facility, incumbent employees shall be offered the opportunity to transfer their employment to the newloca-
6
tion. Provisions of the Ontario Labour Relations Act shall prevail in respect to representation of the employee group.
ARTICLE III
MANAGEMENT RIGHTS - COMPANY SECURITY
3.01	The Union recognizes that operating the plant and the full direction of the working forces are the exclusive functions and responsibilities of the Company.
Without restricting the generality of the foregoing:
a)	The Union recognizes the right of the Company to manage the industrial enterprise in which it is engaged, and to determine the number and location of plants, the products to be manufactured, the methods of manufacturing, schedules of production, kinds and locations of machines, tools to be used, processes of manufacturing and assemblying, the engineering and design of its products and the control of materials and parts to be incorporated in the products produced.
b)	The Union further recognizes the rights of the Com-
pany to hire, retire, promote, determine qualifications and capabilities, transfer, demote and lay-off employees, and to suspend, discharge or otherwise discipline employees for just cause, maintain order, discipline and efficiency, and to determine standards
of performance for all machines, employees and operations. The Company agrees to exercise these functions in a manner not inconsistentwith the terms of this agreement.
C) In the event of a full closure of the Company’s Cambridge Plant become$necessary during the life of this agreement:
i)	The Company will provide the Local and International Union with six (6) months notice if possible prior to the cessation of production operations.
ii)	Following such notification, the Local and International Union will have the right to exploreand discuss with the Company any passible means of averting the Closure.
iii)	If attempts to avert the plant closure are not successful,the Companyand Union representatives will meet to negotiate the manner in which the closure is carried out. Nothing in the foregoing is intended to restrict the ability of the Company to implement a plant closure, The negotiation shall be restricted to those issues related to an orderly procedure of closure.
3,02	The Union further acknowledges that the Company has the right to make and/or alter, from time to
a
time, reasonable rules and regulations to be observed by all employees. Employees found to be in breach of these rules and/or regulations are subject to discipline by reprimands, suspensions or discharge and not necessarily in that order.
3.03	Nothing in this agreement shall be deemed to restrict the management in anyway in the performance of all functions of management except those specifically abridged or modified by this agreement.
3.04	Nothing in this article shall be construed as giving the Company the rightto violate or misinterpretthis agreement or any other agreement between the parties.
3.05	Reprimands or notations placed on an employee's record by the Company shall be signed by the employee as having been read. If the employee refuses to sign, the union steward will sign on the employee's behalf. When a disciplinary meeting is to be held with an employee, the employee will be advised that a union steward will be present. When an employee wishes to question or dispute such reprimand or notation, he may invoke the grievance procedure within five (5) normal working days of the date of such recording. If the employee's grievance succeeds, the reprimand or notation will be removed from the employee's record.
Reprimands for all offenses, if not repeated within one (1) year, will be disregarded in the administration cf discipline.
9
ARTICLE IV
UNION SECURITY ■ DEDUCTION OF UNION DUES
4.01	All employees in the bargaining unit on the effective date of this agreement, and all employees transferred into or new hires into the bargaining unit after the effective date of this agreement shall as a condition of employment become a member of the Union.
4.02	The Company agrees to deduct union dues or the equivalent of union dues as the case may be and assessments in accordance with the by-laws and/or constitution of the union from the wages of all employees in accordance with 4.03. Such union dues or the equivalent will be deducted in accordance with the constitution of the United Rubber, Cork, Linoleum and Plastic Workers of America, AFL-CIO, CLC (U.R.C.L. and RW.A., AFL-CIO, CLC).
4.03	Monthly union dues as defined by the Union shall be deducted in four (4) equal parts in the first four (4) pay periods of the month providing the employee draws or has worked some hours in the pay period.
The Company will provide the Union with a weekly report showing weekly deductions, month-to-date deduction and year-to-date deduction.
The Union shall be responsible for advising the Company of any arrears to be paid and shall be responsible to refund any over deduction to employees
10
The Company shall forward a cheque payable to the Union once per month for all dues deducted in the prior month.
It is understood that S.U.B. payments are subject to the above deduction.
When an employee leaves the employ of the Company before the end of the month and provided the employee has worked or draws pay for thirty-two (32) or more hours in such month, then the Company agrees to deduct union dues or the equivalent of union dues as the case may be, from his final adjustment cheque.
4.04	The Company shall forward the deductions as provided for in this article to the Treasurers Local 862 not later than ten (10) days fallowing such deductions accompanied by the following information:
a)	From whose pay deductions have been made and the amount.
b)	From whose pay no deductions have been made and
the reason for no deductions.
c)	A list of those employees whose employment has been terminated.
d)	A properly filled out check-off certification form as supplied by the Union.
11
e)	A properly filled out membership application form supplied by the Union for new employees.
4.05	The following form shall be used to meet the requirements for this article:
I, the undersigned employee, do hereby authorize and direct Canadian General-Tower Limited to deduct from my pay (including any S.U.B. payments) four (4) equal payments each month commencing with the week
d___________________the amount of union dues or the
equivalent thereof as determined by the Union in accordance with the constitution of the? United Rubber, Cork, Linoleumand PlasticWorkers of America, AFL-CIO.CLC and assessments as defined in clauses 4.02 and 4.03 of the current Collective Labour Agreement and remit such to the Treasurer of Local 062. This authorization for deduction shall remain effective for the term of this agreement or any extension thereof, but becomes void upon:
a)	termination of employment; or
b)	transfer to an occupation outside the bargaining unit.
I understand that it shall place no liability upon Canadian General-Tower Limited by virtue of your action in honouring in good faith this assignment and authorization.
12
Signature of employee,
Address...........
Employee No.........
Witness,............
Copies to: Company Union Employee
4.06	The Union shall indemnify and save the Company harmless from any claims, suits, judgements, attachmentsor any other form of liability as a result of the Company making any deductions in accordance with the authorizations and assignments provided for in this article, and the Union will refund directly to any employee on whom a wrongful deduction was made.
4.07	The Union shall notify the Company in writing of changes in dues or other changes in the Union constitution, affecting the Company's obligation under this article, no later than the twenty-fifth (25th) day of the calendar month immediately preceding the month that such change is to become effective. The Union further agrees to notifythe Company in writing of the name of the Local Union Treasurer.
4.08	The President,Vice President, Union Officers or a Steward may enter the plant when off shift for the
13
purposes of conducting Union business or grievance investigations. Upon entering, he shall secure the consent of the Supervisor of the department of the employees he wishes to contact in order to minimize disruption of production. Consent to conduct Union business will not be unreasonably denied. When entering and leaving the plant in these circumstances, Union officers shall sign the register at the Guard House.
The foregoing policy is based on the Company's current security regulations which are subject to change.
4.09	Notice of meetings and other matters of interest to employees inthe bargaining unitthat the Union desires to be posted shall be submitted to the Company for posting.
The Union may post similar notices on a Union bulletin board at its discretion.
14
ARTICLE V
SENIORITY
General
5.01	An employee shall be considered a probationary employee until he hascompleted three (3) months of satisfactory service with the Company and during such period he shall have no seniority rights. During the probationary period, the Company will provide the Union with a copy of all written assessments of the probationer's progress. Upon completion of such period seniority shall date back to the date of first employment. In calculating all time worked, periods of absence shall not be included.
In the event two (2) or more employees have the same seniority date, the Company and the Union shall by draw, and in the presence of the employees concerned,
establish the order of seniority of such persons.
5.02	Each employee, in order to benefit by the seniority provisions of this agreement, must keep the Company informed of his current address and telephone number, if any, at which he can be contacted as follows:
a)	An employee on the active payroll will notify the Company by signing a form available from his immediate supervisor. Such form will be made in triplicate, one (1) of such copies will be retained by the employee.
15
b)	An employee laid off subject to recall must notify the Human Resources Department by registered mail of any change of address.
5.03	An employee shall have job seniority when he completes three (3) months of continuous service on the job in which he was hired and two (2) months continuous service on the job to which he was transferred at which time his company seniority shall be deemed to be hisjob seniority.
5.04	a) When an employee has job seniority and is transferred from such job, he shall continue to accumu-latejob seniority on such job until he acquiresjob seniority on the job to which he was transferred.
b)	Should an employee fail to obtain job seniority for any reason, he shall revert to his previous job with seniority and bidding rights restored.
5.05	An employee who is transferred as a result of the discontinuance of his former job, shall have immediate job seniority in the job to which he bumps or is transferred.
5.06	"Capable" as used in this agreement shall mean the employee is physically and mentally qualified to perform the job and "Qualified Experience" shall mean the employee has worked for the Company on the job in question or a similar related job and is presently able to
16
safely perform the job at the level of performance required.
5.07	Notwithstandingthe provisions of this article, the Company may place employees under the following conditions:
a) Where an employee is fully qualified to perform a job for which no other employee can qualify.
b)	Where for the purposes of rehabilitating a company compensable injured employee where, as a result of such injury, he is required to be kept at work, or as a result of same he has a permanent partial disability but performs the work to which he has been assigned in a manner that is satisfactory to the Company. In either case the injured employee shall not displace an employee with greater seniority.
c)	Where an employee cannot perform satisfactory work
due to age, health or other physical or mental conditions, such employee may be transferred to work which is more suitable if such is available. If the employee is transferred he shall not displace an employee with greater seniority. Failing placement, he shall be laid off.
Such consideration shall be limited to a meeting of the Human Resources Manager, the Union President (designate) and one other Union Representative.
17
5.08	In all cases of new machinery, the Company will post all vacancies for the first crew. If a vacancy remains after posting has occurred, then the Company will fill the vacancies (vacancy) at their discretion. In making this selection the Company will take into consideration the experience and seniority of the individuals and the effect their knowledge and training will have on the succeeding crews. An err)ployee filling a vacancy under this clause will be subject to the same privileges and restrictions as stated in elapse 5.14.
It is understood that new machinery includes machinery taken out of production with the crews assigned to other machinery, dismantled, re-designed and re-built either inside or outside the plant.
5.09	An employee presently in, or who has been in what is now the bargaining unit, who transferred to a supervisory position or any other position outside the bargaining unit, which is directly connected with the operation of the Company, who returns to the bargaining unit, shall return to the job he held at the time of his transfer outside the bargaining unit, provided the period of the transfer has not been in excess of two (2) months. VMiere the period of the transfer has been in excess of two (2) months but not in excess of twelve (12) months he shall be offered an open job or failing this being available he shall take the place of the junior employee in the plant. It is understood that seniority shall accumulate while an employee is on transfer outside the bargaining
18
unit. If the period of transfer exceeds twelve (12) months, the employee shall lose his seniority.
5.10	a) Employees may be loaned from one job to another for a period not exceeding four (4) consecutive weeks. Such time may be extended by mutual agreement. When a loan will exceed three (3) normal working days, the Company shall notify the Union in writing at the time of the loan. If an employee istransferredtosuchjob while on loan, his transfer date shall be that of the first day of loan.
bj When a loan transfer is necessary, the junior employee with qualified experience shall be transferred unless mutually agreed to do otherwise.
5.11	Seniority shall be the first consideration in case of promotions, demotions, upgrading or transfers for employees and shall govern when qualifications are equal providing this agreement does not provide otherwise.
Job Posting
5.12	Ajob vacancy is a job to which no employee on lay-off has a prior claim.
The Company agrees to the following forms of posting job vacancies:
a)	The posting shall identify the job, the hourly rate of pay, whether or not shiftwork is involved, the neces-
19
sary qualifications, and the time and date of the posting.
р)	Except as hereinafter provided, applications for job postings will be accepted from all bargaining unit employees who have acquired seniority. An employee wishing to make applications for job postings must do so in writing at the Human Resources Department during the posting period. Such applications will be in duplicate and date stamped by the Human Resources Department upon receipt. A copy of the application will be retained by the employee.
с)	Jobs will be posted in all customary posting areas for
a period of one (1) week (Tuesday to Tuesday).
d)	It is understood and agreed that the following Skilled Trade jobs (Maintenance Department) Electrician, Machinist Toolmaker, Machinist, Millwright, Pipefitter, Powerhouse Operator, Carpenter, and Oiler will not be subject to job posting. Where there is a permanentvacancy in the Oiler classification this job will be posted in the Maintenance Department and only maintenance helpers will be permitted to make applicationfor this job.
e)	An employee who is awarded a job through job posting and fails to establish seniority on that job because of a production cut-back or job elimination will return to his former job with his bidding rights
20
20
restored. Any employee transferred as a result of the posting will return to his former job.
f)	An employee making an application for a job posting will be considered to have made himself aware of the requirements of the posted job and if he is the successful applicant, he will fill the posted job for which he applied.
5.13	Only the job vacancy created by an employee filling the original posting, under clause 5.12, will be posted. All subsequent vacancies will be filled at the discretion of the Company.
5.14	a) The Company shall have the right to transfer an employee who was the successful applicant to a job posting but who is unsatisfactory, back to the job he held at the time of his application, within a period of two (2) monthsfrom the date hefirst worked on the posted job with full bidding rights restored.
b)	An employee who isthe successful applicant on ajob posting cannot make a subsequent application until after the expiration of the following time from the date of his successful application:
i) Six (6) months if to a higher wage rated job.
S) Twelve (12) months for all other jobs.
iii) An employee who is the successful applicant on
21
a job posting shall have full bidding rights restored if he is laid off within six (6) months from the date of acceptance.
c)	An employee may not bid an any job within his own department that is a lower job classification than the one he holds.
5.15	The Company shall have the right to delay a transfer on the job posting for a period of time equal to the normal training period required to train a replacement In any event, this period of time shall in no case exceed three (3) months. (See Letter of Understanding #13).
5.16	An employee shall lose all seniority and shall be deemed to have terminated employment with the Company if he:
a)	voluntarily quits the employ of the Company:
b)	is discharged for just cause and is not reinstated;
c)	is absent due to lay-off beyond the period of his recall
rights;
d)	failstoreportforworkinaccordancewithclause 5.30;
e)	is retired by the Company.
5.17	The Company agrees to furnish the President, Vice President and Treasurer of Local 862 with 22
22
seniority lists based on the employees’ records which shall contain the then current seniority date of each seniority employee in the bargaining unit. This list shall be supplied and posted every three (3) months of a contract year.
Lay-Off
5.18	a) Seniority shall be recognized for the purpose of effecting a reduction of work force.
t>) Seniority will be exercised first within the department concerned with the work force reduction, then within the group and subsequently within the plant.
The junior employee in each job classification in the department in which the lay-off is to occur will be laid off from their job and shall exercise his bumping rights in the department in reverse order of progression where such is in effect.
d)	When paragraph (c) is complete, seniority employees who remain surplus will, in order of seniority, exercise bumping rights in the group by displacing employees having the least seniority in the group on general jobs only.
e)	Upon completion of this exercise, probationary employees shall be laid off to await recall.
23
I) When paragraph (e) is complete, seniority employees who remain surplus will, in order of seniority, exercise bumping rights in the plant by displacing employees having the least seniority in the plant on general jobs only.
g)	Where more than one bump exists in a group as per (d) above, the highest level job will be filled by the most senior employee exerdsing his bumping rights.
In the case of (f) above, surplus employees shall exerdse their bumping rights by choice, based upon seniority. Employees shall advise the Company of their choice within 24 hours cf being given notice to exerdse his bumping rights.
h)	When all of the above has been completed surplus employees with greater seniority than any employees in classified jobs shall be retained in the plant as undassified, paid the rate of the job he held when first displaced until he is assigned, reverts, or is a successful applicant on a job posting. Failing this, the employee shall be laid off from plant employment awaiting recall.
Where the President of Local #862 is affected by lay-off, he will be considered to have one day more seniority than the most junior employee in the plant and will be governed by dause 5.18 (f).
24
j) Any provisions of lay-off and/or recall procedures may be superseded by mutual agreement between the Company and the negotiating committee of the Union.
Note: Classified and general jobs as defined in Appendix "C".
5.19	Skilled trade and trainee (apprentice) jobs within the Maintenance Department are excluded from the effect of this section (lay-off and recall). In case of lay-off within the skilled trades or trainee (apprentice) classification (Maintenance Department) an employee will exercise seniority within his skilled trade or trainee (apprentice)classification and then trainees (apprentices) will be governed by clause 5.18(f).
5.20	When a temporary condition arises requiring a temporary lay-off of an employee for a definite period of time, not exceeding five (5) normal work days, (24 hours work for a weekend worker) the seniority provisions of this article shall not apply. For any specific group or section such lay-off shall not be applied more than once per contract year. Such a lay-off will be effected only when and/or where a specific section or group of employees would be affected temporarily due to such conditions as machinery breakdown, customer scheduling or any other cause beyondthe control of the Company. When such a temporary condition affects a job classification or more than one (1) employee, probationary
25
employees in suchjob classifications will be laid off before seniority employees are affected.
An employee laid off from plant employment under this clause, shall be deemed to be on qualifying lay-off under Article 1, Section 1(a) of'the Supplementary Unemployment Benefits Agreement.
5.21	The Company will review the list cf impending lay-offs of seniority employees with the President and Chief Steward of the Union, or their authorized representatives, in order to avoid any error. The Company will provide the Union with an up-to-date list by March 1st. June 1 st. September 1 st and December 1 st of all persons on lay-off having recall to work rights with their recall entitlements dates shown.
5.22	When it becomes necessary to lay off an employee, he will be given seven (7) calendar days' notice prior to the date of his lay-off, whenever possible. If the employee is held past his lay-off date, his notice will be updated to reflect a new lay-off date.
An employee who desires to leave the employ of the Company shall give seven (7) calendar days' notice whenever possible.
5.23	A seniority employee's seniority shall accumulate during a period of lay-off, provided such accumulation does not exceed twelve (12) months during any one period of lay-off.
26
Recall and Reversion
5.24	a) A seniority employee at the date of lay-off shall be entitled to the following right to recall to plant employment.
Seniority at Date of Lay-Off Period of Recall
Two (2) months but less	1 year
than one (1) year
Che (1) year but less	2 years
than two (2) years
Two (2) years but less	3 years
lhan three (3) years
Three (3) years but less	4 years
than four (4) years
Four (4) years or more	5 years
b)	Employees shall have reversion rights for a period of
one (1)year.
c)	i) Where a lay-off from a group <r department does
not exceed six (6) months, all employees shall revert to the positions and schedules they held prior to lay-off.
ii) When the period of lay-off is greater than six (6)
27
months but less than twelve (12) months, the effected employees may revert to positions and schedules they held prior to lay-off if they so desire.
iii) Should an employee refuse reversion under c(ii) above, or is the successful bidder on a job posting within twelve (12) months of lay-off, his reversion right shall be cancelled.
d)	An employee in order to maintain rights to recall to plant employment in excess of twenty-four (24) months must register with the Company during the twenty-fifth (25th) month of lay-off and thereafter during the thirty (30) calendar days following each annual anniversary date from his lay-off date, indicating his desire to retain his rights to recall to plant employment
e)	It is the sole responsibility of the employee to ensure that his current address is on file with the Company. Any change of address must be by registered mail to the Human Resources Department.
An employee on lay-off from plant employment shall not have reversion rights until he is recalled to plant employment, nor shall his reversion rights allow him to displace any employee at the time of his return. Upon return, his reversion rights are applicable to the next immediate opportunity.
28
5.25	Employees with rights to recall to plant employment or reversion shall be recalled or revert in the following order:
a)	A laid-off employee shall be recalled to plant employ-
ment consistent with this plant seniority.
b)	An employee shall not have reversion rights in any successivedepartment or group beyond the department or group from which he was first displaced.
Recall or reversion shall be in reverse order cf lay-off.
5.26	Should an employee refuse recall to plant employment, he shall be terminated.
Should an employee refuse reversion, he shall forfeit all reversion rights.
5.27	An employee who, in the opinion of the Company, is unable to accept recall to plant employment due to being physically incapable of handling the job to which he is being recalled will be returned to the recall list. When able to meet the required physical standards, he shall be notified of the next available job.
5.28	An employee who is unable to accept recall to plant employment due to being sick and unable to work at the time of recall, will be returned to the recall list and when he is fully recovered, he shall notify the Company
29
of this fact. He shall be recalled to work and will bump the most junior employee in the plant. The junior employee will be returnedto the recall list and article 5.24 shall apply It is understood that to avail himself of this provision, an employee must notify the Company within two (2) normal work days referred to in 5.30. of his sickness, be prepared to verify such sickness if required to do so and advise the Company by registered mail when he is fully recovered and able to return to work. It is understood that the employee’s return to work may be delayed by a period of time equal to the notice of lay-off requirements under the Employment Standards Act of Ontario in effect at the time.
5.29	In the case where a full crew is recalled, the employee shall be returned to the positions in the job progression that they held at the time of the lay-off.
This clause only applies in circumstances wherein a department which had previously operated and was shut down is restarted within twenty-four (24) months.
5.30	An employee who is recalled by registered letter, must present himself for work within two (2) normal work days from the date of his recall, however, if an employee is out of province at the time of his recall such two (2) normal work days shall be extended to seven (7) calendar days. In order to take advantage of this extension, however, the employee must contact the Company by telegram or telephone to the Human Resources Department within the first two (2) normal work days.
30
If an employee does report within thirty (30) days of the date of his recall with a reason acceptable to the Company for not having reported, his seniority shall be retained and he will be notified of the next vacancy under the terms of this article.
5.31	In the case of recall within the skilled trades classifications (Maintenance Department) an employee will be recalled in order of seniority to his skilled trade classification.
5.32	Before hiring a new employee, the Company will give preference to employees on lay-off who have recall rights.
Leave of Absence
5.33	Leaves of absence for reasons other than illness or injury may be granted by a department manager.
An employee desiring a leave cf absence must make his request in writing to his foreman sixty (60) days prior to leave. The foreman will advise the employee in writing within two (2) weeks regarding his written application. Before an employee can take a leave cf absence he must have written approval for the leave. If the employee is unable to make a written application and has a valid reason for not making it, the Company will not unreasonably withhold the leave of absence.
31
5.34	The Company may grant a reasonable leave of absence for personal reasons to an employee. Before taking such leave, the employee must have written approval from the Company.
5.35	Leave of absence shall be granted for illness or injury of an employee. The duration of such shall be dependent on the nature of the illness or injury, the medical aspects of the case and the effort the employee is making to restore himself to normal health but shall not, except as hereinafter provided, exceed the following:
Seniority	Duration
of Leave
a)	2 mortis but less than 1 year	3 mortis
b)	1 year but less than 5 years	6 months
c)	5 years but less than 10 years	12 months
d)	10 years and over	24 mortis
Provided, however, the Company in consultation with its medical advisor will exercise the primary control as to how long beyond the period specified in (a) to (d) herewith, the leave of absence may be extended.
5.36	A female employee who becomes pregnant (based on medical certification) shall not work later than such time as the duties of her job cannot reasonably be
32
performed by a pregnant woman or the performance of her work is materially affected by the pregnancy. If the employee so requests she shall be granted leave of absence following five (5) months after the inception of pregnancy. If this employee has less than six (6) months of seniority at the time she ceases work her seniority shall be terminated on the day she ceases work, however, if the Company rehires such person within one (1) year from date of termination she shall retain the seniority she had on such date. If she has six (6) months or more of seniority on the day she first ceases work, she shall be granted a leave of absence for a period not to exceed three (3) months after the cessation of pregnancy.
5.37	An employee who is elected or selected for full time duty as an Officer or Representative of the U.R.C.L.P.W.A. or its affiliated organizations in the Canadian Labour Congress or the Ontario Federation of Labour, which assignment may take him away from his employment with the Company may apply in writing for leave of absence.
Such leave shall be granted for the term of this agreement and shall be automatically renewed upon ratification of subsequent agreements.
When leave is granted for this purpose, the employee shall retain his seniority status for the term of the leave, only with respect to job placement upon termination of the appointment. For seniority accrual for pension purposes see Article II of the Pension Benefit 33
Plan. The Company shall have the right to refuse leave if more than one (1) employee is appointed or selected to serve as representative of the International Union and/or its affiliated organization.
5.38	Seniorityemployeeswho are properly designated Representatives of the Local Union shall upon request to the Company be granted leaves of absence to attend to Local Union business, provided the number of leaves requested at any one time does not exceed five (5) and further providedthat the granting of leaves will not unduly curtail the Company's operation.
5.39	Seniority shall accumulate during an approved leave of absence up to a period of six (6) months during any one period of leave including extensions, except in cases of illness or injury of the employee, in which case such period shall be increased to twenty-four (24) months provided the Company is satisfied with the medical information receivedfrom the employee respecting the need for the extension.
5.40	An employee granted a leave of absence in excess of fifteen (15) days must, if required by the Company, pass a medical examination at the Company's expense. If he fails to pass this examination and is thus prevented from resuming work, he shall be given a leave of absence in accordance with clause 5.35 above.
5.41	An employee who is absent from work due to a compensable factory injury shall not be considered
34
on a leave of absence in the meaning of this article. After medical approval for work, such employee will be returned to work in accordance with the terms of this agreement. Provided that if he returns fo work with a permanent partial disability he must be able to perform the work required d him. Seniority for such absence from work will be credited to the job and department he held prior to such injury.
5.42	An employee who returns from a leave of absence shall be reinstated in his former position in accordance with the seniority provision of this article, provided he is capable of performing the work required.
ARTICLE VI
UNION REPRESENTATIVES
6.01	The Company acknowledges the right of the Unionto appoint or otherwise select a reasonable number of stewards to assist employees in presenting their grievances to the representatives of the Company.
6.02	There shall be one (1) chief steward for the bargaining unit and other stewards shall be as follows:
a)
b)
c)
One (1) steward on each shift for Paste and Mixing Department.
One (1) steward on each shift for #3, #4, #5, #6, #7 Printers and Sample Printer.
One (1) steward on each shift for #1. #2, #3, #4 Laminators and #3 Grainer.
35
35
d)	One (1) steward on each shift for the Inspection Department.
e)	One (1) steward on each shift for #3, #4, #5, #6 Calenders, Blender/Banbury Department and Calender Utility.
One (1) steward on each shift for Shipping, Receiving, Film Stockroom and Brantford Warehouse.
g)	One (1) steward on each shift for the Maintenance Department.
h)	One (1) steward on each shift for the Reclaim Depart-
ment.
i)	One (1) steward on each shift for the Plastisol Department.
All stewards shall have completed their probationary period. Changes, additions or deletions may be made by mutual agreement.
6.03	The Company further acknowledges the right of the Union to appoint or select from the bargaining unit a negotiating committee <f not more than five (5) employees who have completed their probationary period. The Company will negotiate with such committee for renewals or extensions of agreements. The said committee will co-operate with the Company in the administration of this agreement. An International Repre-
36
sentative of the Union will participate in such negotiations if requested to do so by the Union.
6.04	The Company will pay the members of the negotiatingcommittee of not more than five (5) members for all time spent at a meeting called by the Company, at the normal hourly rate of each member who attends, if overtime and/or shift premium would normally be applicable to the members(s) who attend then overtime and/or shift premium shall be paid.
6.05	The Company will pay the members of the negotiating committee for time lost from their normal shift for attending every other meeting scheduled for negotiating agreements between the Company and the Union, excludingtimespenton conciliation. The rate of pay shall be the normal hourly rate of each member who attend, excluding overtime and/or shift premium.
6.06	A seniority employee who is a properly designated representative of the Local Union shall upon request to his immediate foreman be permitted reasonable time off for the investigating or handling of grievances and/or attending to Local Union business within the plant. If such time off requires contacting any employee during working hours this shall be arranged by said employee contacting the foreman of the employee concerned so that the least production delay will result. In special circumstances it may be necessary for such Representative to investigate a grievance outside his regular shift hours. The Company will pay Union Repre-
37
sentatives for such time spent during normal shift hours and time spent in special circumstancesas above at their normal hourly rate excluding overtime and/or shift premium, up to a total maximum amount in each contract year, equal to $8.00 per employee multiplied by the number of employees in the bargaining unit in the first month of each contract year (effective March 1, 1992 • $8.50, effective March 1, 1993 • $9.00). Any amount in excess of the aforementioned maximum amount will be billed to the local union on a monthly basis.
ARTICLE VII
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
7.01	An employee who has a complaint shall discuss same with his immediate foreman, either directly or with his steward. If the complaint Is not settled, it may be treated as a grievance arid thereafter processed through the following steps in sequence.
Any and all of the time lirpits set out in this Article may be extended by mutual consent in writing.
Step No. 1
The grievance may be reduced to writing, dated and presented to the Department Manager within thirty (30) normal working days of the alleged incident leading to the grievance. A meeting will then be arranged within three (3) normal working days subsequent to the date the
38
grievance is received by the Department Manager. The grievance will be taken up by the Department Manager and appropriate Union representation. Such Union representation may include the grlevor and shall not exceed three (3) people. The Department Manager will render his decision in writing within three (3)normal working days after the conclusion of the meeting(s) on said grievance.
Step No. 2
Failing settlement at Step No. 1. the grievance may be taken up by the negotiating committee, with the Company management committee within thirty-five (35) normal working days subsequent to the date of the Department Manager's written decision. The Management Labour Consultant may attend upon request of the Company. An International Representative of the Union may attend upon request of the Union. The authorized member of the management committee will render the decision of such committee in writing within three (3) normal working days after the conclusion of such meet-ing@)on said grievance.
Suspension except those of a severe nature (eg. sabotage, fighting, assault, theft, use cf chemical substances, etc.) shall not be served until the grievance has been disposed of up to and including Step No. 2 above.
Suspensions arising from actions of a severe nature shall be taken up at Step No. 2 within seven (7) days of the Union filing a grievance with the Company.
Step No. 3
Any grievance arising from the interpretation, application, administration or allegdd violation of this agreement which has not been settled under the grievance procedure, including any question as to whether a matter is arbitrable, may within but not more than thirty-five (35) normal working days after the completion of Step No. 2, be submitted to arbitration by either party. When either party to this agreement requests that a grievance be submitted to arbitration they shall make such request in writing and address same to the other party.
The parties shall than proceed to arbitration as provided for under the Ontario Labour Relations Act.
7.02	Each of the parties shall pay the charges and expenses of its appointee. The charges and expenses of the chairman of the arbitration board shall be borne equally by the Company and the Union.
7.03	A decision by the majority of the arbitration board shall be final and binding upon both parties and the employees.
7.04	The arbitration board shall not be authorized to make any decision inconsistent with the provisions of this agreement, nor to alter, modify or amend any part of
40
this agreement. Unless mutually agreed no matter may be submitted to arbitration which has not been properly carried through all previous steps of the grievance procedure.
7.05	Grievances on hourly rates in effect on the effective date of this agreement, including those which are changed by a general wage adjustment, are not subject to arbitration unless there is a change in job content. Grievances pertaining to new hourly rates established after the effective date of this agreement (excepting those rates changed by a general wage adjustment), shall be subject to the arbitration procedure as heretofore expressed except that in such an instance the chairman of this arbitration board shall be a member of a reputable Industrial Engineering Company.
7.06	No grievance after it has once been submitted to the negotiating committee for adjustment shall be settled except through the negotiating committee, or if otherwise, with the consent and approval of such committee.
7.07	The Union agrees that the final written answer of the Company to a grievance at any step in the grievance procedure shall dispose of the grievance unless such is appealed by the Union within ten (10) normal working days from the date of the Company's final answer. The only exception shall be that of an appeal to arbitration wherein fifteen (15) normal working days is allowed. Where the Company fails to answer in writing
41
as provided in Step No. 1 and/or2 of clause 7.01 and the President of the Union has reminded the Human Resources Manager of the lack of such notice and provided after such notification the Company fails to render its decision in writing within ten (10) normal working days of the date of the President's reminder, the grievance will be settled in the favour of the grievor or the Union as the case may be.
7.08	If an employee feels that he has been unjustly suspended or discharged he shall have the right to appeal herewith his discharge or suspension in accordance with the grievance procedure herein provided. In severe cases involving suspension or discharge the employee(s) concerned will be sent home Immediately. The Company will within two (2) normal working days inform the employee and the Union of the disciplinary action to be taken. Such appeal must be in writing, addressed to the Company and the Union and must be in the Company's hands no laterthan five (5) normal working days after the effective date of his suspension or discharge. If such appeal is properly made, the matter shall be negotiated through the grievance procedure and if it is determined that the employee has been unjustly suspended or discharged, he shall be reinstated to his former position without loss of seniority, and shall be compensated at his normal rate for normal hours lost from work because of the suspension or discharge.
42
It is further agreed that the conferring parties or the arbitration board shall have the powerto make any other arrangements which, in their opinion, isjust and equitable in the application of the foregoing penalties in this clause.
7.09	When an employee has been discharged without notice, he shall upon request be given the opportunity to interview his steward in a suitable place, providing such can be accomplished within an hour and a half from the time his discharge is effective and the circumstances are not such that he must be removed from the premises of the Company without delay.
7.10	The Union agrees there shall be no strike, sit-down, slow-down nor stoppage of work, either partial or complete during the term of this agreement. The Company agrees there shall be no lockout during such term.
ARTICLE VIII
HOURS OF WORK, OVERTIME
8.01	When production requirements as defined by the production plan in any department or departments exceed the capacity in any department or departments such that the requirements cannot be produced on a five (5) day three (3) shift schedule, the Company shall then schedule such department or departments on a week-end schedule as follows: The normal work week for employees in the bargaining unit on a five (5) day
schedule shall be scheduled from 11.00 p.m. Sunday (shift one Monday) to 11.00 p.m. Friday except when a paid holiday is observed on a Monday: then the normal hours for that week shall be scheduled from 11.00 p.m. Monday (shift one Tuesday) to 11.00 p.m. Friday.
The two (2) day schedule (week-end schedule) shall consist of two (2) twelve (12) hour shifts, one each on Saturday and Sunday from 11.00 p.m. Friday to 11.00 p.m. Sunday.
It is understood, that all terms of this collective agreement shall apply in a mannersuch that an employee working on the two (2) day schedule shall not lose or gain benefits currently available to a five (5) day worker.
8.02	Normal hours for employees not working on a continuous eight (8) hour shift will be from seven (7) a m. to eleven-thirty (11.30) a.m. and from twelve (12) noon to three-thirty (3.30) p.m. Monday to Friday inclusive.
8.03	Normal hours of work for a five (5) day worker shall be eight (8) hours per day and forty (40) hours per week. Normal hours of work for a two (2) day worker shall be twelve (12) hours per day and twenty-four (24) hours per week. This section is intended to provide a basis for overtime and shall not be construed as a guarantee of work per day or week.
44
8.04	Onfive (5) day continuous operations, normal shift hours shall be:
Shift 1	11p.m. to 7 a.m.
Shi# 2	7 a.m. to 3 p.m.
Shi#3	3p.m.to11p.m.
On weekend operations where only one (1) crew is in effect, normal shift hours shall be:
SaUday shift	11 p.m. Fridayto11 amSatuday
Sindayshift	11 am. Sutfeyto 11 p.m. Sirrfy
On weekend operations where two (2) crews are in effect, normal shift hours shall be:
SatudayShi#1 Saturday ShHt2 StrdayShiftl Suiday Shift 2
11 pm. Friday to 11 a.m. Saturday 11 a.m. Satuday to 11 p.m. Saturday 11 p.m. Saturday to 11 am. Sut% 11 am. Smdayto 11 p.m. Surdey
Any changes to the above normal shift hours will be by mutual consent between the Company and the Union.
8.05	a) Hours worked in excess of eight (8) in a twenty-four (24) hour period shall be paid at the rate of time and one half excepting:
i) When the hours of an employee exceed his normal daily hours because he substituted for another employee other than at the Company’s re-
45
quest or changed his hours at his own request.
ii) For time spent in meetings paid for by the Company, however, the time lost by a properly designated representative of the Local Union from his regular scheduled shift due to attending meetings with the Company shall be considered as part of his normal shift hours in determining overtime on his regular shift.
b)	Hours worked between eleven (11) p.m. Friday and eleven (11) p.m. Saturday shall be paid at the rate of time and one-half. Hoursworked between eleven (11) p.m. Saturday and eleven (11) p.m. Sunday shall be paid at the rate of double time.
c)	When an employee reports for work on his regular shift and is sent home before the end of his regular shift and is required to report back for work within the twenty-four (24) hour period, he shall be paid time and one-half for all hours worked on reporting back.
8.06	An employee who works overtime shall not be required to take time off during the week to bring his hours down to normal hours per week.
8,07	Time and one-half will not be paid twice for the same hoursworked or paid for.
46
8.08	When an employee is scheduled to work overtime and he works in excess of two (2) hours, provided he has not been given notice prior to the end of his previous shift and he remains on the company premises during the meal break, then a meal allowance of $6.25 will be paid within the overtime period. (Effective March 1,1992, $6.50; effective March 1,1993, $7.00).
8.09	It is recognized that it may be necessary to work beyond the normal hours per day or week and the Union and employees will co-operate in performing overtime. The Company agrees that when overtime is scheduled it will be divided as evenly as possible among the employees who usually do the work. When overtime is necessary due to absenteeism of employees, the Company has the right to loan employees from other jobs to fill the vacancies. Failing this, the overtime will be divided as evenly as possible among the employees who usually do the work. The Company will give consideration to personal commitments of employees when overtime is scheduled. Employees shall have the right to refuse offered overtime consistent with the Overtime Guidelines.
8.10	a) The Company will pay employees not working on a continuous shift of eight (8) hours or more, one (1) ten (10) minute rest period during each continuous work period of four (4) hours or more.
b) The Company will pay employees working on a continuous shift of eight (8) hours or more for two (2)
47
ten (10) minute breaks and one (1) twenty (20) minute break.
c)	The Company will pay emplpyees not working on a continuous shift of eight (8) hours or more a rest period of ten (10) minutes wt|en working overtime in excess of one (1) hour without leaving the Company premises.
d)	The Company will pay a weekend worker working a regular twelve (12) hourshif(on Saturday and Sunday three (3) ten (10) minute breaks and two (2) twenty (20) minute breaks.
ARTICLE IX PAID HOLIDAYS
9.01	An hourly employeewiho qualifies will be paid for normal daily hours at his normal hourly rate for the following paid holidays:
1991 New Year's Day	1992	1993
Jan1 (Tue) Good Friday	Jan 1 (Wed)	Jan 1 (Fri)
Mar 29 (Ri) Victoria Day	Apr 17 (Fri)	Apr 9 (Fri)
May 20 (Mon) Canada Day	May 18 (Mon)	May 24 (Mon)
JJyl(Mon)	June 29 (Mon) 48	Jify2(Fri)
Civic Holiday Aug 5 (Mon)	Aug 3 (Mon)	Aug 2 (Mon)
Labour Day Sept 2 (Mon)	Sept 7 (Mon)	Sept 6 (Mon)
Thanksgiving Day		
Oct 14 (Mon)	Oct 12 (Mat)	Oct 11 (Mon)
Christmas Day Dec 25 (\Afed)	Dec 25 (Fri)	Dec 24 (Fri)
Boxing Day Deo 26 (Thur)	Dec 28 (Mon)	Dec 27 (Mon)
Floater Dec 27 (Fri)	Dec 29 (Tue)	Dec 28 (Tue)
Floater Dec 30 (Mon)	Dec30(V\fed)	Dec 29 (V\fed)
Floater Dec 31 (Tue)	Dec 31 (Thur)	Dec 30(Thur)
*lf Heritage Day is legislated as a statutory holiday, it will supersede this Floating Holiday.
N.B.: January 1,1994, to beobservedon Friday, December 31.1993
9.02	In order to qualify for the paid holidays specified in clause 9.01 herewith an employee must meet all of the following rules unless otherwise provided herein:
a)	He must report for work at the starting time of his shift and be preparedto work the normal scheduledhours on both the last scheduled normal work day preced-
49
ing and the first scheduled normal work day following the paid holiday. If the employee is unable to complete such normal scheduled hours for a reasonthat is acceptable to the Company, he shall be considered as qualifying under this subsection. Exceptions:
An employee who is absefit on one but not both of the qualifying days and the reason he was absent was because:
a)	He was late in reporting fpr work due to a reason beyond his control that is acceptable to the Company.
b)	An employee who is absent on one or both of the qualifying days as a result of being confined to hospital, being off sick, or injured as a result of a non-occupational accident and such is verified by medical certification, the employee shall be paid the holidayas per Section V of the Welfare Benefit Plan.
This exception is limited to those paid holidays occurring within a 90 day period from the date of hospitalization, onset of illness or injury.
The employee was absent on one or both of the qualifying days as a result of being on an approved leave of absence or lay-off then provided the employee has been at work some part of the week
50
during which one of the qualifying days fall he shall receive payment for the paid holiday.
9.03	If one of the paid holidays referred to in article 9.01 falls during the vacation period of an employee who is eligible for such paid holiday, the paid holiday will be banked until it is requested as an adjustment to a regular pay. All paid holidays deferred must be taken by December 31st. When the vacation form is submitted, employees must declare the alternate day the paid holiday will be taken. The qualifying provisions of 9.02 will apply to the scheduled hours on the day preceding and the day following the day designated as the statutory holiday.
9.04	When an employee fails to qualify for a paid holiday specified in clause 9.01 herewith and the only reason for such failure is because of a partial or total plant shut-down which causes such employee to be laid off and therefore the employee fails to work both of the qualifying days specified in subsection (b) of clause 9.02, provided his lay-off does not exceed three (3) calendar weeks, the employee shall be paid for such holiday upon his return to work.
9.05	When any of the paid holidays specified in clause 9.02 herewith fall on a Saturday it shall be observed on the Friday immediately preceding the paid holiday. When such holiday falls on a Sunday, it shall be observed on the Monday immediately following such paid holiday.
51
If, as a result of this clause, more than one (1) holiday would be observed on the same day, one of the holidays will, by mutual agreement, be observed on another day. When Canada Day falls on a Tuesday or Wednesday, itwill be observed on the previous Monday. When it falls on Thursday, it Will be observed on the following Friday.
9.06	Paid holiday shall Sjtart at eleven (11) p.m. and end at eleven (11) p.m. on the day of observance.
9.07	An employee who vlrorks on a paid holiday shall be paid at the rate of double time for all hours worked, in addition to any paid holiday pay he may be entitled to under the terms of the preceding clauses inthis article.
ARTICLE X WAGE POlIcY
10.01 Appendix "A" herewithattachedispartofthis agreement and contains the job classifications and their respective hourly rate ceiling. The hourly rate ceilings herein shall remain in effect for the term of this agreement and are not subject to change except by mutual agreement between the Company and'the Union.
10.02 Reporting for Work Pay
a)	An employee who is called into work prior to his regularshift shall be paid his applicable rate for such hours worked provided he completes the assigned hours on his regular work on his regularshift unless excused by his immediate supervisor.
b)	An employee reporting for work at his scheduled shift time without being properly notifiedto the contrary or reports for work at a time requested by his supervisor and is assigned no work or works for a lesser period than four (4) hours because of some reason within the Company's control, shall be paid a minimum of four (4) hours at his normal hourly rate.
Where an employee is assigned some other form of work, he shall be paid in accordancewith clause
10.06	(payment for temporary assignment) of this agreement.
It is understood that reporting for work means the employee has "punched irfand is in his department ready for work at his scheduled starting time. It is further provided that an employee shall be considered as reportingfor work where personalcontact is made with the foreman at or before his scheduled time.
c)	An employee shall be considered to have been properly notified if such notification is made by the
53
scheduled starting time. Reporting for work will not be paid:
i)	When the employee refuses a reasonable assignment.
H) When an employee is absent from work for personal reasons not covered by a leave of absence priorto reporting for work.
iii)	When a employee fails to record with his foreman or the Human Resources Office his current address and/or telephone number and therefore, the Company is unable to notify him notto reportto work.
iv)	In cases of stoppages of work caused by labour disturbances directly or indirectly within the plant.
v)	In cases caused by mechanical or electrical breakdown where such substantially affect operations in a department or plant, power failures, weather conditions, fire, catastrophe or any other cause beyond the Company's control.
Payment for Time Lost Due to Bereavement
10.03 A seniority employee who is excused from work by the Company because of a death in the employee's immediate family shall be paid for time lost by
54
himduringthe normal work week for three (3)normalwork days. Immediate member means:
Current spouse, mother, father or legal guardian, current mother-in law or father-in-law, son or daughter, brother or sister, son-in-law or daughter-in-law, grandparents, grandchildren, step parents and step children.
Payment for time lost by a seniority employee during his normal work week shall be limited to the day of the funeral for current brother-in-law, sister-in-law, foster parents, foster child, spouse's grandparents, spouse's brother-in-law and sister-in-law, The rate of pay for time lost under this clause shall be his normal hourly rate. If the employee is eligiblefor any otherform of renumeration to which the Company contributes, payment shall not be made under this clause for such day(s).
In those caseswherein circumstancesof travel and funeral arrangements require the seniority employee to have additional leave in excess of three days, he may request such leave and it shall not be unreasonably denied. In these circumstances, payment for such leave shall not exceed two additional days and such leave shall be available only in circumstances related to the passing of immediate family members.
55
10.04 Civic Duty
a) An employee who is summoned and reports for jury duty or as a subpoenaed Witness as prescribed by law, shall be paid by the Company an amount equal to the difference between daily jury duty fee paid by the Court (not including travel allowances or reimbursement of expenses) and the wages he would have earned that day by working normal hours at his normal hourly rate.
The provision of the above paragraph shall not apply to an employee who is summoned, reports for, or is subpoenaed as a witness for the Union in any arbitration proceeding and a proceeding in a divisional court resulting from said arbitration and action by the Union before the Ontario Labour Relations Board.
The employee will be paid for each day on which he reportsfor or performsjury duty and on which he would otherwise have been scheduled to work for the Company during the normal week. Paymentfor such service shall be made provided:
i) The employee notifies the Company within twenty-four (24) hours after receipt of selection.
ii)	The employee furnishes the Company with a written statement signed by the appropriate public official which shall contain the date, time served and amount.
56
iii)	The employee reportsfor work if a reasonableamount of time can be worked either before or after such service.
b) An employee shall be granted one (1) days leave of absence with pay for the purposes of attending a CitizenshipCourt in which he or an immediate family member (as defined in 10.03) is a participant.
Call Back Pay
10.05	An employee called back to work in any emergency after he has left work and before his normal starting time shall be paid four (4) hours pay at time and one half (double time on Sunday and paid holidays) his regular hourly rate or the rate of the job performed, whichever is the greater.
The employee may leave the plant if the emergency has been resolved. It is understood that any employee working on an emergency call-in may be requested to resolve any additional emergency situation which may arise while in the plant.
It is further understood that this clause does not apply to situations of unscheduled overtime.
10.06	When an employee is temporarily assigned to a job he shall be paid the greater of:
a) His normal hourly rate; or
b) The hourly ceiling rate of the assigned work. 57
57
Hiring Rates and Automatic Progression
10.07	The starting rate for hourly rated classifications shall be $1.00 per hour below the lowest houriy rate for new permanent employees for the first thirty (30) days of employment regardless of the job performed. Employees hired as temporary summer workers shall be paid $2.00 per hour below the lowest hourly rate for all normal hours regardless of the job performed for the term cf their employment.
10.08	The rates specified in clause 10.07 is the minimum rate the Company will pay. The Company shall have the right to exceed the payment specified and will also retain the right to reduce or remove the time limit if and when expedient. However, the Company shall not, at any time, make payments in excess of ceiling rates specified in Appendix "A".
Shift Premium .
10.09	Shift premium shall not be included in the calculation of an employee's overtime rate.
10.10	The Company will pay a shift premium to all employees of forty-eight (48) cents per hour for hours worked on the shift eleven (11) p.m. to seven (7) a.m. and forty-one (41) cents per hour for hours worked on shift three (3) p.m. to eleven (11) p.m.
10.11	The shift premium for abnormal shifts shall be forty-eight (48) cents per hour for hours worked from
58
eleven (11 )p.m. to seven (7) a.m. and forty-one (41) cents per hour for hours worked on the shift three (3) p.m. to eleven (11) p. m. No shift premium shall be paid for hours worked on shifts which normally start on or after seven (7) a.m. and end on or before seven-thirty (7:30) p.m.
10.12	An employee required to work earlier or later than his normal shift hours, shall not be paid shift premium for the hours for which he is paid an overtime rate.
10.13	Weekend shift workers shall not be paid shift premium for any hours worked between seven (7) a.m. and three (3) p.m.
10.14	A leadman's duties shall include that of instructing,training and assigningemployees but shallnot include the authority to discipline employees. When performing such work he shall be paid an increase in his normal hourly rate of forty (40) cents per hour for hours so applied.
10.15	An employee who is injured in the factory and who is required to obtain treatment at the factory location and/or who is required to obtain treatment at another medical location shall be paid for such time lost from the normal shift during which the accident occurred at his normal hourly rate.
10.16	An employee scheduled to take the general accounting inventory shall be paid at his normal hourly rate.
59
10.17	An employee who progresses to or n the successful applicant for a job posting shall be paid his formerjob rate until he qualifies in the newjob or after ninety (90) worked days in the newjob, which ever first occurs.
10.18	The Company shall pay employees their weekly wages each week as follows: Wednesday shift #3 before shift end. Thursday shifts #1 and #2 before shift end. In a calendar week that contains a paid holiday prior to pay day or should a data processing machine breakdown occur prior to pay day, the pay day for that week may be one full day later.
Interim Increase Formula
10.19	The Supplemental Agreement covering the Interim Increase formula attached hereto forms part of this agreement.
ARTICLE XI VACATIONS
11.01	An employee who has one (1) or more years of seniority as of June 30th of the current calendar year shall be granted a vacation, the entitlement cf which shall be based upon his seniority and the payment for which shall be based on his seniority and a percentage of the employee's wages received by him from the Company from July 1 st of the preceding calendar year to June 30th d Ihe current calendar year (unless otherwise provided under clause 11.02). The entitlement and payment shall be based on the following schedule:
60
Seniority as of
June 30 of the	Vacation
Current Calendar Year	Duration
Group A
lessthanone(1)year
(includes probation employees) Nil
Group B
one (1) year but less than five (5) years	2 calendar
weeks
Group C
five (5) years but less
than ten (10) years	3 calendar
weeks
Group D
ten (10) years but less than nineteen (19) years
4 calendar weeks
Vacation
Payment
4%
4%
6%
8%
Group E
nineteen (19)years but less than thirty (30jyears
61
5 calendar weeks
10%
Effective March 1,1993 nineteen (19) years but less than twenty-nine (29) years
Group F
thirty (30) years or more	6 calendar	12%
weeks
Effective March 1,1993	6 calender	12%
weeks
twenty-nine (29) years	'
Vacation will be scheduled in full weeks, Sunday through the following Saturday except for employees in groups (C), (D), (E), and (F) of clause 11.01 who will be permitted to split all weeks in excess of two full weeks.
11.02	In the first year of employment, an employee shall receive four (4) percent of his wages received from his date of employment to June 30th of the current calendar year as vacation pay.
11.03	a) Vacation periods will be scheduled by the Company giving due consideration to production requirements, seniority, employees' wishes and related situations. No vacation entitlement or payment will be authorized except as defined in this article.
b) Employees must request vacation on the approved form a minimum of two (2) weeks prior to the re-
62
quested vacation period except in extreme or unusual circumstances. No employee will take vacation unless it is authorized by his supervisor.
11.04	The Company will make every effortto notify each employee at least three (3) months prior to the commencement of his scheduled vacation. This clause pertains only to the two (2) calendar weeks' vacation of employees entitled to a vacation of two (2) or more weeks.
11.05	Vacation payment will be made in accordance with 10.18 provided the employee is in compliance with 11.03(b).
11.06	When the Company follows its normal policy of closing down for vacation, employees not scheduled to work during the shutdown period will take their vacation at that time. The Company will make every effort to notify employees at least four (4) months prior to the date of closing down.
11.07	Vacation payment will not be made to an employee while he is absent from work by reason of sickness, injury or leave of absence. If vacation payment is not made and if upon the employee's return to work:
a)	the Company is unable to schedule his vacation prior
to December 1st of the current calendar year; or
b)	the employee is unable to return to work prior to December 1st of the current calendar year; the
63
Company will pay the employee the vacation payment to which he is entitled.
Exception:
In extenuating circumstances the Company may make the vacation payment for such employees during the vacation shutdown period.
11.00	An employee whose employment with the Company is terminated for any reason shall receive vacation pay based on the applicable percentage shown in the schedule under clause 11.01 as follows:
a) If his employment is terminated prior to June 30, he shall receive vacation pay based upon wages received from the immediately preceding July 1 to his date of termination less any vacation payment already received.
b) If his employment isterminated after June 30, he shall receive, in addition to any unpaid vacation due to him under clause 11.01, a vacation payment based on wages received by him from the immediately preceding July 1 to his date of termination.
11.09	An employee who has been laid off and subsequently rehired shall be paid his vacation pay in accordance with clause 11.01 less any vacation payment received by him in accordance with clause 11.08.
64
11.10	Employees must take the vacation to which they are entitled during the current calendar year.
11.11	In no instance will a vacation payment be paid twice for the same period of time.
11.12	When an employee has been unable to work during the preceding calendar year or any part thereof due to sickness or injury and for these reasons only the vacation pay is forty (40) hours multiplied by his regular rate plus C.O.L.A. if applicable, he shall receive a minimum weekly vacation payment calculated as above provided the employee has worked three (3) months during the calendar year in which the vacation is granted.
11.13	In this article XI, the term "wages received" shall meanallwages, prior year's vacation payments and shortwork week benefits, received by the employee in the applicable period.
11.14	If an employee agrees to work when called in to work while on vacation, he will be paid straight time and be required to take equivalent holiday time at a later date.
65
ARTICLE XII
GENERAL
12.01	No full time supervisor or office employee shall perform production or maintenance work that would be done by employees in the bargaining unit except for the purpose of instruction or training employees, in emergencies when regular employees are not immediately available.
In the case of new machinery and/or equipment, the Company will advise the Negotiating Committee the date such machinery and/or equipment has been accepted by Engineeringand is approvedfor productiontrial runs, at which time members of the bargainingunitwill be assigned to the machine for all production operations. Prior to such acceptance and approval, supervisory and/or non bargaining unit personnel may do such tests as are required to permit acceptance by Engineering, and the Company will notify the Union prior to such tests. If such tests indicate that adjustments to the machinery and/or equipment are required, they will be performed by members of the bargaining unit and/or by employees of the manufacturer.
It is understood that new machinery includes machinery taken out of production with the crews assigned to other machinery, dismantled, redesigned and rebuilt, either inside or outside the plant.
12.02	The following form part of this agreement:
66
The Maintenance Training Plan The Welfare Benefit Plan Letters of Understanding #1 through #15 The Pension Benefit Plan The Supplemental Unemployment Benefit Plan AppendixC-Job Progression Overtime Guidelines
12.03	The Company will continue to supply the safety and wearing apparel as normally supplied at the present writing and under similar conditions and as may be mutually agreed during the term of this agreement. Company subsidy on the purchase of plant safety shoes up to two (2) pairs per employee per year as follows:
Mixlng/Printing Departments
Effective March 1, 1991:
-1st pair of Leather or Conductive Soled Safety Shoes to a maximum of $90.00.
-2nd pair of Leatheror Conductive Soled Safety Shoes to a maximum of $70.00 subject to Company approval.
Employees must inform themselves as to the definition of "conductive soled” before purchasing.
Balance of Plant
Effective March 1,1991 - $60.00 maximum.
67
- $30.00 maximum 2nd pair subject to Company approval
Winter Apparel
Company will provide winter coats to those employees whose job functions require them to be out of doors on a regular basis.
12.04	a) The Company agrees that there shall be a plant safety committee consisting of six (6) members, three (3) of whom shall be appointed by the Company and three (3) shall be appointed by the Union. The committee shall once per month conduct a safety tour and once per month hold a meeting for the purpose of eliminating working hazards in the factory ?nd to formulate policies for recommendation to the Company for the benefit of the health and welfare cf employees. The Company will provide the Union with a copy of the lost time accident report form.
In the event of a lost time injury or in the case of a high incidence of injuries of the same operation or process, an investigation of the problem or cause of such injuries shall be made by a group of three whose members shall be; the foreman concerned, the safety supervisor and a Union safety committee member. This group shall report theirfindings to the Company for their consideration.
66
c)	The Union safety committee members shall be issued individual passesfor entering the plant when off shift for the purpose of investigating an accident per subsection (b) of this clause or for purpose of investigating a claim of an unsafe condition which requires the presence of Company and Union representatives as required under the Employee Health and Safely Act, Ontario. When entering the plant, the committee member shallfollow the procedure as laid down in clause 4.08.
12.05	The Company will pay the full cost, and will provide the employees and Union with copies of:
a)	The Collective Labour Agreement and Letters of Understanding,
b)	The Welfare Benefit Plan,
c)	The Pension Benefit Plan,
d)	The Supplemental Unemployment Benefit Plan,
e)	The MaintenanceTraining Plan,
f)	Overtime Guidelines,
to employees and to the Union for its files for the term of this collective agreement.
69
ARTICLE XIII
DURATION OF AGREEMENT
13.01	This agreement shall be effective from March 1,1991 and shall remain infull force until February 28,1994 and thereafter from year to year unless either party gives to the other party nptlce, in writing, of cancellation within a period of not legs than two (2) months or more than three (3) months prior to February 28,1994, or an anniversary date thereafter.
13.02	Subject to the provision for cancellation, either party may give the other a notice of proposal for revision within a period d not less than two (2) months or more than three (3) months priorto February28,1994, or an anniversary date thereafter, in which event the parties shall meet as early as possible to consider the proposed revision and during such time this collective agreement shall continue in full force and effect until agreement is reached upon the proposed revisions. Provided that if negotiations continue for two (2) months without agreement, this agreement may be cancelled by either party upon written notice to the other.
13.03	In the event of written notice of cancellation having been given by either party, as herein provided, negotiations shall continue on during the period of cancellation with a view to effecting a new agreement. Should such negotiations extend beyond the expiration date, this agreement shall not expire but shall continue in full force
70
and effect as provided in The Ontario Labour Relations Act.
In witness, whereof the parties have executed this agreement this 10th day of April, 1991.
Signed, sealed and delivered on April 10,1991 in the presence of:
For the Company	For the Union
A. Currie L Simons D. Nickell K. Ash	C.	Renaud D.	Yost F Noseworthy R. Kitrfien J.	Reid K.	Dawson, Int. Rep.
71
COST OF LIVING ALLOWANCE
In the third year of this Collective Agreement, the cost of living allowance will be introduced in the month following the month in which the Consumer Price Index (Stats Canada) exceeds the February 1993 Consumer Price Index multiplied by 1.05 (1971 - 100). TheC.RI. for the month which exceeds the February 1993 C.RI. multiplied by 1.05 shall be the base.
1.	The first C.O.L.A. payment shall be made in the second pay period following release of the C.RI. for the third month following the month in which the C.O.L.A. is introduced.
Payment will be based on the difference between the base and the C.RI. for the third month following introduction of the C.O.L.A. and shall be paid for all hours worked in this period.
2.	The second C.O.L.A. payment shall be made in the second pay period following release of the C.RI. for the sixth month following the month in which the C.O.L.A. is introduced.
Payment will be based on the difference between the C.RI. for the third month following introduction of C.O.L.A. and the C.RI. for the sixth month following introduction of C.O.L.A. and shall be paid on all hours worked in the fourth, fifth and sixth months following introduction of the C.O.L.A.
72
3.	The third C.O.L.A. payment shall be made in the second pay period following release of the C.RI, for the ninth month following the month in which the C.O.L.A. is introduced.
Payment will be based on the difference between the C.P.I. for the sixth month following introduction tf C.O.L.A. and the C.RI. for the ninth month following introduction of C.O.L.A. and shall be paid on all hours worked in the seventh, eighth and ninth monthsfollowing introduction of the C.O.L.A.
4.	The fourth C.O.L.A. payment shall be made In the second pay period following release of the C.RI. for the twelfth month following the month In which the C.O.L.A. is introduced.
Payment will be based on the difference between the C.P.I. for the ninth month following introduction tf C.O.L.A. and the C.RI. for the twelfth month following introduction of C.O.L.A. and shall be paid on all hours worked In the tenth, eleventh and twelfth monthsfollowing introduction of the C.O.L.A.
5.	ShouldtheC.O.LA. be introduced such that the last period of payment eligibility prior to termination of this Collective Agreement is less than three (3) months, then the last payment shall be made based upon the difference of the C.P.I. at the end of the previous period and the C.RI. for February 1994.
73
6.	TheCostof Living Allowance payments shall be paid
on the basis of one (1) cent per hour for each 0.3 rise in the C.RI. (1971 - 100) for any period as defined above.
7.	Payment of the C.O.L.A. in any one period of three months shall be limited to twenty (20) cents maximum.
B.	AtthetimeC.O.L.A. is calculated, fractional changes
in cents per hour will be rounded off to the nearest cent.
C.	O.L.A, will be paid on all hours worked, including equivalentstraighttime hoursfor statutory holidays, vacations, bereavement clause 10,03 and Civic Duty clause 10.04.
If there is a decrease in the C.RI. to a level which is less than the February 1993 C.RI. multiplied by 1.05, the C.O.L.A. shall not be payable.
74
APPENDIX "A'
The Company and the Union agree that the following are the Ceiling Hourly Ratesfor the classifications as herewith listed for the duration of the Collective Labour Agreement.
		DATE EFFECTIVE		
		Marl	Marl	I Marl
Department	Occupation	1991	1992	1993
36 Sample	■Sample Printer	14.64	15.29	15.84
Printer	Operator			
	Sample Printer	14.39	15.04	15.59
	Operator Assistant			
37 #5 Cal.	'Calender Operator	15.29	15.94	16.49
38 #4 Cal.				
39 #6 Cal.				
42 #3 Cal.	'Assistant Operator	14.56	15.21	15.76
	Millman Feeder	14.22	14.87	15.42
	VMndup Operator	14.15	14.80	15.35
4t Calender	Calender Utility Man	14.15	14.80	15.35
Utility				
43 Rim	Stockman	13.94	14.59	15.14
Stockroom				
	Assistant Stockman	13.79	14.44	14.99
	Serviceman	13.74	14.39	14.94
75
Department	Occupation
46 #5 Printer	'Printer Operator 'Assistant Operator Windup/lnfeed Operator
48 Inspection	'Fabric Inspector •Perf./Slitter/Rereeler Op. Material Handling Utility Operator Serviceman
49 Blender/	‘Blender/Banbury
Banbury	Operator Blender/Banbury Utility
50 #1 Lam. (T&M)
'Laminator Operator
'Assistant Operator Inleed Operator
DATE EFFECTIVE Marl Marl Marl 1991 1992 1993
15.09 15.74 16.29 14.46 15.11 15.66
14.08	14.73 15.28 14.29 14.94 15.49
14.09	14.74 15.29 13.84 14.49 15.04
13.74 14.39 14.94 14.62 15.27 15.82
14.18 14.83 15.38
14.92 15.57 16.12 14.36 15.01 15.56 14.02 14.67 15.22
76
		DATE EFFECTIVE Marl Marl Marl
Department	Occupation	1991 1992 1993
54 #4 Lam.	'Laminator Operator	14.92 15.57 16.12
	'Assistant Operator/ Windup	14.31 14,96 15.51
	Infeed Operator	14.02 14.67 15.22
55 Plastisol	'Primary Plastisol Operator	15.29 15.94 16.49
	'Plastisol Operator	14.71 15.36 15.91
	'Intermediate Plastisol Operator	14.56 15.21 15.76
	* Paste Mixer	14.36 15.01 15.56
	Wndup Operator	14.15 14.80 15.35
56 #3 Lam.	'Laminator Operator	14.99 15.64 16.19
	'Assistant Operator	14.41 15.06 15.61
	Infeed Operator	14.08 14.73 15.28
62	#6 Printer 63	#7 Printer 64	#4 Printer	'Printer Operator	15.09 15.74 16.29
75 #3 Printer	'Assistant Operator	14.46 15.11 15.66
		DATE EFFECTIVE Mar 1 Mar 1 Mar 1
Department	Occupation	1991 1992 1993
	Windup/lnfeed Operator	14.08 14.73 15.28
65 Mixing	’Colour Matcher Material Controller	14.94 15.59 16.14
	'Colour Matcher Mixer	14.79 15.44 15.99
	'Colour Matcher	14.34 14.99 15.54
	Solution Mixer	14.04 14.69 15.24
	Utility Operator	13.74 14.39 14.94
	Asst. Utility Operator	13.69 14.34 14.89
67 #3 Grainer	'Grainer Operator	14.92 15.57 16.12
	•Assistant Operator	14.31 14.96 15,51
	Windup/lnfeed Operator	14.09 14.74 15.29
71 Maintenance	Electrician	17.09 17.74 18.29
Trades	MachinistTooknaker	17.04 17.69 18.24
	Machinist	17.04 17.69 18.24
	Millwright	17.04 17.69 18.24
78
Department
72 Reclaim
80 Compound
90 Shipping
Occupation
Pipefitter
Powettiouse Operator
Carpenter
Oiler
Stockkeeper
Helper
Janitor
'Reclaim Machine Op.
'Assistant Reclaim Machine Operator
Relief Reclaim Machine Operator
Fork Lift Truck Op.
'Colour Compounder
ColourV\feigher
■Shipper
DATE EFFECTIVE Mar 1 Mar 1 Mar 1 1991 1992 1993
17.04	17.69 18.24 17.24 17.89 18.45
17.04	17.69 18.24 16.21 16.86 17.41 14.34 14.99 15.54 13.74 14.39 14.94 13.69 14.34 14.89 14.64 15.29 15.84
14.04	14.69 15.24
13.82 14.47 15.02
13.84 14.49 15.04 14.29 14.94 15.49 13.96 14.61 15.16 14.39 15.04 15.59
79
Department	Occupation	DATE EFFECTIVE Mar 1 Mar 1 Mar 1 1991 1992 1993
	'Assistant Shipper	14.04 14.69 15.24
	Film Mapper	14.02 14.67 15.22
	Fork Lift Truck Op.	13.84 14.49 15.04
	IntermediateService/ Fork Truck ODerator	13.84 14.49 15.04
	Serviceman	13.74 14.39 14.94
92 Receiving	'Receiver	14.39 15.04 15.59
	'Assistant Receiver	13.99 14.64 15.19
	Truck Driver	13.89 14.54 15.09
	Warehouseman	13.84 14.49 15.04
	Fork Lift Truck Op.	13.84 14.49 15.04
	Serviceman	13.74 14.39 14.94
93 Brantford	*Warehouseperson	14.56 15.21 15.76
Warehouse
Where an (*) appears this denotes classified jobs, remainingjobs are general jobs.
80
APPENDIX "B'
The Company and the Union agree that the following is a listing of departments and groups relative to lay-off and recall procedure.
Group #1
#3 Calender #4 Calender #5 Calender #6 Calender Blender Banbury Calender Utility
Group #2
#3 Printer #4 Printer #5 Printer #6 Printer #7 Printer Sample Printer
Group #3
#1 Laminator(T&M)
#3 Laminator #4 Laminator #3 Grainer
Group #4
Shipping
Receiving
81
Film Stockroom Brantford Warehouse Maintenance (Service)
Group#5
Inspection
Group#6
Compound
Mixing
Group#7
Maintenance (Trades) Trainee (Apprentice)
Group #8 Reclaim
Group #9
Plastisol Department
82
APPENDIX "C" JOB PROGRESSION
1.	In order for an employee to benefit under "job progression", he must have seniority and be considered as an experienced employee on the job from which he progresses.
2.	When a permanent vacancy occurs in a department, the employee who is capable and who has the most seniority on the preceding job in such department shall be offered the vacancy except as noted in (6) below.
3.	When the permanent vacancy is not filled in (2) above, the procedure shall continue through all precedingjobs in the department.
A. When the permanent vacancy is not filled in (3) above, the Company shall post the vacancy or vacancies as per clause 5.12 Job Posting. The vacancy shall first be offered to suitable applicants in the group on immediate precedingjobs (see Appendix B). Failing this,
5.	The vacancy shall be filled by the most suitable remaining applicant.
6.	To fill a vacancy in a classified Level I job in any department, the senior employee in the classification preceding the vacancy must progress to fill the
83
vacancy. In the case of Level II vacancy in the Calender Department, the job vacancy will be filled by the Junior Millman if not filled by #2 above. The provision of this paragraph (6) does not apply to vacancies within departments 48,80,90 and 92.
7.	Should an employee in the group be on vacation at the time a job is posted under #4 above, the Company shall assume that heihas made application for the job posting until he advises the Company to the contrary.
8.	Any employee who progresses under two (2), three (3) or six (6) above is not permitted to regress unless laid off from the job.
9.	Employees must train on succeeding jobs to an acceptable level of competency within the accepted time frames for training for such jobs where job progressionis in effect.
10.	When weekend crewing is in effect, job progression shall only occur within either the normal five (5Jday or weekend schedule unless the affected employee agrees to do otherwise.
84
The following is the job progressionfor:
Department #36 - Sample Printer
*1 Sample Printer Operator *2.Sample Printer Operator Assistant
Department #37 - #5 Calender *1 .CalenderOperator *2.Assistant Operator
3.	Millman Feeder
4.	Wind-up Operator
Department #38 - #4 Calender
*1 Calender Operator *2.Asslstant Operator
3.	Millman Feeder
4.	Wind-up Operator
Department#39 - #6 Calender
*1. CalenderOperator *2.Assistant Operator
3.	Millman Feeder
4.	Wind-up Operator
Department #41
(A)	Calender Utility Operator
Department#42 - #3 Calender
1 .CalenderOperator
2.	Assistant Operator 85
3.	Millman Feeder
4,	Wind-up Operator
Department #43- Film Stockroom
1.	Stockman
2.	Assistant Stockman 3.Serviceman
Department #46 - #5 Printer
*1 .Printer Operator *2. Assistant Operator
3.	Wind-up/lnfeed Operator
Department#48 • Inspection
*1 .Fabric Inspector *2.Perforator/Slitter/Reeler Operator
3.	Material Handling Utility Operator
4,	Serviceman
Department#49 - Blender Banbury
*1.Blender/Banbury Operator
2.Blender/Banbury Utility Operator
Department#50 - #1 (T&M) Laminator
*1.Laminator Operator *2. Assistant Operator
3.	Infeed Operator
86
Department #54 - #4 Laminator *1 .Laminator Operator *2. Assistant Operator 3. Infeed Operator
Department #55 - Plastisol
*1. Primary Plastisol Operator
2.	Plastisol Operator
*3, Intermediate Plastisol Operator *4. Paste Mixer
5.	Windup Operator
Department #56 ■ #3 Laminator
*1. Laminator Operator *2. Assistant Operator
3.	Infeed Operator
Department #62 - #6 Printer
*1 .Printer Operator *2. Assistant Operator 3. Windup/lnfeed Operator
Department #63 • #7 Printer
*1.Printer Operator *2. Assistant Operator 3. Windup/lnfeed Operator
a7
Department#64- #4 Printer
*1. Printer Operator *2. Assistant Operator
3.	Windup/lnfeed Operator
Department #65 • Mixing
‘1 .Colour Matcher- Material Controller *2. Colour Matcher Mixer *3. Colour Matcher
4.	Solution Mixer
5.	Utility Operator
6.	Assistant Utility Operator
Department#67-#3 Grainer
*1 .Grainer Operator *2. Assistant Operator 3. Windup/lnfeed Operator
Department #71 - Maintenance
Trades:
(A)	Electrician	(F) Carpenter
(B)	MachinistToolmaker (G)	Oiler
(C)	Machinist	(H)	Trainee	(apprentice)
(D)	Millwright	(I)	Powerhouse Operator
(E)	Pipefitter
Service:
(A) Stockkeeper
88
(B)	Helper
(C)	Janitor
Department#72- Reclaim
*1 .Reclaim Machine Operator
*2. Assistant Reclaim Machine Operator
3.	Relief Reclaim Operator
4.	Fork Lift Truck Operator
Department#75 -#3 Printer
'1 .Printer Operator *2. Assistant Operator 3. Windup/lnfeed Operator
Department#80 - Compound
*1 .Colour Compounder
2.	Colour Weigher
Department#90 -Shipping ‘1 Shipper
*2. Assistant Shipper
3.	Film Wrapper
4.	Fork Lift Truck Operator
5.	Intermediate Fork Lift Truck Operator
6.	Serviceman
Department#92- Receiving
*1 .Receiver
*2.Assistant Receiver
3. Truck Driver
89
4.	Warehouseman
5.	Fork Lift Truck Operator
6.	Serviceman
Department #93 - Brantford Warehouse
*1. Warehouseperson
Note:
Where numbers appear in this agreement in conjunction with a "job" such denotes job progression is in effect. Where there are no numbers there is no job progression.
Any deletions, additions or changes required in this agreement will be negotiated between the parties.
Where an (*) appears this denotes classifiedjobs, remaining jobs are general jobs.
Employees must train on succeeding jobs to an acceptable level of competency within accepted time frames for training for such jobs where job progression is in effect. When training is completed and employee is qualified, he shall work one (1) shift every two (2) weeks five (5) day worker, andone(1) shifteverythree (3)weeksinthecase of the weekend workers on the succeedingjob.
This Agreement will operate concurrently with and for the term of the Collective Labour Agreement between the Company and the Union.
90
APPENDIX "D'
tl
WEEKEND CREWING
Where not specifically outlined in the body of this agreement, the following provisions shall apply for weekend crewing.
INITIAL CREW SELECTION
Employees currently working in the affected departments will, in order of seniority, be offered an opportunity to work the weekend crew beginning with the operators and following down the progression system. Job opportunities will be offered on a "job for job" basis. Upon completion of this step, employees who have agreed to work weekend shall progress consistent with Appendix "C". All remaining vacancies shall be filled consistentwith Appendix "C".
Vacancies remaining on the weekend crew following this exercise within the department will be offered to the group on a similar process of transfer to the weekend and progression, and finally all remaining positions will be filled by job posting.
Vacancies created on the fiye (5) day schedule will be filled using Appendix "C" of the C.L.A.
Subsequent crews on weekend shift shall befilled according to Appendix "C" except that employees shall not be required to progress from the five (5) day schedule to weekend.
91
91
SENIORITY
Refer to Article 5.01 of the Collective Agreement
Refer to Article 5.03 of the Collective Agreement.
Employees may be loaned from one job to another for a period not exceeding four (4) consecutive weeks. Such time may be extended by mutual agreement. When a loan will exceed three (3) norma(working days, the Company shall notify the Union in writing at the time of the loan. If an employee is transferred to such job while on loan, his transfer date shall be that of the first day of loan. When weekend crewing is in effect, loan transfers shall only occur within either the normal five (5) day or the weekend schedule, unless the individual employee(s) affected agree(s) otherwise.
JOB POSTING
Except as hereinafterprovided.applicationsforjob postings will be accepted from all bargaining unit employees who have acquired seniority. An employee wishing to make application for job posting$mustdo so in writing at the Human Resources Department during the posting period. Such applications will be in duplicate and date stamped by the Human Resources Department upon receipt. A copy of the applicationwill be retained by the employee.
When weekend crewing is ineffqct, Job Posting applications from weekend workers shall be signed and dated by
92
the employee's immediate supervisor. A copy of the application will be retained by the employee.
LAY-OFFWEEKEND CREWING
When weekend crewing is in effect, lay-off shall occur in accordance with this article and in the following order:
Employees on the weekend shift shall be laid-off within the Weekend Schedule as per 5.18 of the C.L.A.
Employees declared surplus upon completion of 5.18(d) of the procedure within the Weekend Schedule shall bump into the five (5) day schedule. They shall exercise bumping rights consistent with 5.18(c) at the job level they held at the time of displacement from the weekend crew.
Following this, they shall follow the procedure defined in 5.18 of the C.L.A.
PAID HOLIDAY
A weekend worker shall be paid for eight hours of pay at his regular straight time rate for each paid holiday that the employee qualifies for. These paid holidays shall accumulate in each calendar year and be paid with the first full pay week in December, (see Article 9 of the Collective Agreement)
VACATIONS
Vacation week shall consist of a Saturday and a Sunday. Employees shall not be required to take split weekends as vacation.
SICKNESS AND ACCIDENT INSURANCE SUPPLEMENTARYUNEMPILOYMENT BENEFIT
These plans shall be administered consistent with the spirit and intent of the 5 day schedule.
Weekend workers schedule for time change from EST -EDT and EDT - EST
Spring Conditions
Employees scheduled 11:00 a.m. - 11:00 p.m. will work 11:00 a.m.-10:30 p.m. EST-11-1/2 hours on Saturday.
Employees scheduled 11:00 p.m. -11:00 a.m. will report to work at 10:30 p.m. EST and Work to 11:00 a.m. EDT Sunday -11-1/2 hours.
Fall Conditions
Employees scheduled 11:00 a.m. -11:00 p.m. will work 11:00 a.m. -11:30 p.m. Saturday -12-1/2 hours.
Employees scheduled 11:00 p.m. -11:00 a.m. will report to work at 11:30 p.m. EDT on Saturday and work to 11:00 p.m. EST on Sunday-
94
Under these conditions employees will be paid 12 hours at the applicable rate provided they complete this schedule.
OVFRTIME GUIDELINES
1. Clause 8.09: "It is recognized that it may be necessary to work beyond the normal hours per day or week and the Union and employees will co-operate in performing overtime. The Company agrees that when overtime is scheduled, it will be divided as evenly as possible amopg the employees who usually do the work. When overtime is necessary dueto absenteeism of employees,the Company has the right to loanemployeesfrom other jobs to fill the vacancies. Failing this, the overtime will be divided as evenly as possible among the employees who usually do the work. The Company will give consideration to personal commitments of employees when overtime is scheduled. Employeesshall have the right to refuse offered overtime consistent with the Overtime Guidelines.
2 a) The Company shall have the right to loan a qualified employee from some other job in the Company, at straight time, to fill the job vacancy before overtime is offered to another employee.
b)	If there is no employee available as stated in (a) above, then the Company will fill the job vacancy on an overtime basis by requesting overtime of an employee or employees who usually do the job on the five (5) day schedule. Failing this, the overtime will be offered to the employeeson weekendcrewing who usually do the job.
96
c)	If the employee who usually does the job is not available or refuses the overtime then overtime will be distributed among those employees who are qualifiedinthe Company's opinion to do thejob. The intent of this paragraph is administered through the application of section 7, 8,9,10, and 11 contained herein.
3.	Foreman is to check with shift employees and keep a listing of those who agree to be called and will work overtime on the 11:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m. shift. This normally occurs when the Company has not been advised until late in the evening that the employee will not be in on midnight shift and requires keeping the employee over who is on the 3:00 p.m. to 11:00 p.m shift and having the employee who is on 7:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m. come in at 3:00 a.m. and weekend shifts.
4.	The foreman is to keep a record and make sure that overtime is being distributed as evenly as possible.
When an employee continually refuses overtime, the foreman will advise him that his is not going to ask him again until such time the employee advises the foreman that he is available for overtime again. Each time his turn comes up, he will be charged with the refusal. It is understood that in case of emergency or others not being available, he will be required to co-operate and work his share of overtime.
97
97
6.	The Company policy has been that no employee should work any shift longer than twelve (12) hours due to the danger of injury from fatigue, except in extreme case of emergency or on the last shift of the week on the five day schedule. The Company will endeavour to advise the Union of such cases.
Coverage For First Shift of Three (3\ Shift - Five (5) Day Schedule
7.	When a department or machine is short handed on the first full shift of the five (5) day schedule, whether it is a regular or an overtime shift, then:
a)	The employee who normally does the job from the shift two shifts later will be requested to work the full shift. Failing this,
b)	The employee who normally does the job from the weekend shift, if any, will be offered the full eight (8) hours. Failing this,
An employee in the department from the shift two shifts later, who is qualified and who has the least amount of overtime will be requested to work the full shift. Failing this,
98
d)	The employee inthe department who is qualifiedfrom
the weekend shift, if any, with the least amount of overtime, if any, will be offered the full eight (8) hours.
e)	If the Company is unsuccessful in covering the first full shift of the week per (a) through (d) above, the procedure outlined therein will be executed to cover the first four (4) hours of the shift and the balance of the shift will be offered to the employee in the department who usually does the job on the following shift. Failing this, it will be offered to qualified employees in the department with the least amount of overtime on the following shift. Failingthis,
f)	The vacancy will be filled at the Company’s discretion.
Coverage For Last Shift of Three (3) Shift - Five (5) Day Schedule - No Weekend Crewing
8.	When a three (3) shift department or machine is short handed on the last shift of each week, whether it is a regular shift or overtime, then the employee who normally does the job from the shift two shifts prior will be offered the overtime for the full shift. Failing this,
The overtime for the full shift will be offered to all qualified employees in the department on the shift two shifts prior, beginning with the employee with the lowest amount of overtime, Failing this,
99
b)	The employee who normailly does the job on the previous shift will be offered the overtime for the full shift. Failing this,
c)	Overtime for the full shift will be offered to all qualified
employees in the department on the previous shift beginning with the employee with the lowest amount of overtime. Failing this,
d)	The overtime for the full shift will be offered to all qualified employees in the, group on the shift two shifts prior, beginning with the employee with the lowest amount of overtime. Failing this,
e)	The overtime for the full shift will be offered to all qualified employees in the group in the previous shift beginning with the employee with the lowest amount of overtime. Failing this,
0 The vacancy will be filled at the Company's discretion.
Coverage For Five (5) Day Schedule - Three (3) Shifts Other Than First or Last Shift
9.	a) When a department or machine is short handed on other than the first or last shift of the week (per section7 and 8), the employee on the preceding shift who usually does the job will be offered the first four (4) hours and the employee who usually does the job on the following shift will be offered the last four (4) hours of the shift. Failing this,
100
100
b)	Any hours not covered in (a) above will be offered to the weekend shift employee, if any, who usually does the job, beginning with the employee with the lowest amount of overtime. Failing this,
c)	The qualified employees In the department on the preceding and following shifts, beginning with the employee with the lowest amount of overtime, will each be offered four (4) hours overtime as above. Failing this,
d)	The qualified employees in the group on the preced-
ing andfollowing shifts, beginningwith the employee with the lowest amount of overtime, will each be offered four (4) hours overtime as above. Failing this,
e)	The full shift will be offered to the other qualified employees on the weekend shift, if any, beginning with the employee with the lowest amount of overtime. Failingthis,
f)	The vacancy will be filled at the Company's discretion.
Coverage For3:0Q p.m. - 11:0Q p.m. Shift Friday Where Weekend Crewing ts In Effect
101
10.	On a three (3) shift operation where weekend crewing is in effect, the following procedure will be used to cover3-11 shift on Friday.
a)	Request eight (8) hours overtime from the employee who normally performs the work on shift #1 (11:00 p.m.-7:00 a.m.) on the five (5)day schedule. Failing this,
b)	Requesteight (8) hours coverage from the employee who normally does the job on the 11:00 a.m. -11:00 p.m. shift of the weekend schedule (if applicable). Failing this,
c)	Requesteight (8) hours from qualified employees in the department from shift one. Failing this,
d)	Request eight (8) hours overtime from the qualified employees in the department on weekend shifts, (11:00 a.m. to 11:00 p.m.); Failingthis,
e)	The employee on the preceding shift on the five (5) day schedule will be offered eight (8) hours. Failing this,
Requestfour (4) hours coverage from the employee who normally does the job on shift two and request the balance of the shift from other employees qualifiedto do work on five (5) days then weekends, with the least amount of overtime.
102
g)	The vacancy will be filled at the Company's discretion.
11.	Covering of overtime on weekends where weekend crewing is in effect, the following procedure will be followed:
a)	Overtime shall first be offered to the employee on shift one of the preceding week, Monday to Friday, who normally does the job. Failing this,
b)	Offered to the employee on shift two, Monday to Friday, who normally does the job. Failing this,
c)	Offered to the qualified employee with the lowest amount of overtime from shiftone inthe department. Failing this,
d)	Offered to the qualified employee with the lowest
amount of overtime from shift two in the department. Failingthis,	.
e)	Offered to the qualified employee with the lowest amount of overtime on shift one inthe group, failing this shift two in the group.
f)	The vacancy will be filled at the Company's discretion.
Shift 11:0Q a.m, • 11:0Q p,m. Saturday 103
g)	Offered to the employee on shift three on the Monday to Friday preceding the Saturday in question, who normally does the job. Failingthis,
h)	Offered to the employee from shift two who normally does the job. Failingthis,
i)	Offered to the employee who normally does the job on shift one. Failingthis,
j)	Offered to the qualified employee with the lowest amount of overtime on shift three in the department. Failingthis,
k)	Offered to the qualified employee with the lowest amount of overtime on shift two in the department. Failingthis,
l)	Offered to the qualified employee with the lowest amount of overtime on shift one in the department. Failingthis,
m)	Offered to the qualified employee with the lowest amount of overtime in the group, shift three first, then two, then one.
n)	The vacancy will be filled at the Company’s discretion
Shift 11:QQp.m.i11:00 a.m. Sunday
104
a)	Overtime shall first be offered to the employee from shift one on following week, Monday to Friday, who normally does the job. Failing this,
b)	Offered to the employee who normally does the job on shift two. Failing this,
c)	Offered to the employee who normally does the job on shift three. Failing this,
d)	Offered to the qualified employee in the department with the least amount of overtime from shift 1. Failing this,
e) Offered to the qualified employee in the department with the least amount of overtime from shift two. Failing this,
0 Offered to the qualified employee in the department with the least amount of overtime from shift three. Failingthis,
g)	Offered to the qualified employee in the group with the least amount of overtime, shift one first, then two, then three.
h)	The vacancy will be filled at the Company's discretion.
Shift 11:00 a.m. • 11:00 p m. Sunday 105
105
i)	Offered to the employee who normally does the job on shift three of the following week, Monday to Friday. Failing this,
j)	Offered to the employee who normally does the job on shift two. Failing this,
k)	Offered to the qualified employee from shift three in the departmentwith the loWest amount of overtime. Failing this,
l)	Offered to the qualified emplbyee from shift two in the
department with the lowest amount tf overtime. Failing this,
m)	Offered to the qualified employee with the lowest amount of overtimeon shift three in the group, failing this, shift two in the group.
nj The vacancy will be filled at the Company’s discretion.
12.Two Shift Operation
When a department or machine is shorthanded on the 7:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m. shift:
The employee who normally does the job from 3:00 p.m. to 11:00 p.m. will be given the option to work either 7:00 a.m. to 11:00 a.m. or 11:00 a.m. to 3:00
106
p.m. Failingthis, proceed to nextqualified employee with least amount of overtime from 3:00 p.m. to 11:00 p.m. to cover four (4) hours on the same basis as above. Failingthis,
b)	Proceed to the group as above.
c)	The vacancy will befilled at the Company's discretion.
When a department or machine is shorthanded on the
3:00 p.m. to 11:00 p.m. shift:
a)	The employee who normally does the job from 7:00
a.m. to 3:00 p.m. will be given the option to work either 3:00 p.m. to 7:00 p.m. or 7:00 p.m. to 11:00 p.m., failing this, proceed to nextqualified man with least amount of overtime to cover four (4) hours on the same basis as above. Failing this,
b)	Proceed to group as above.
c)	The vacancy will befilled at the Company's discretion.
13.	Employees will be charged with overtime refusals if they have on their departmental file card notations such as "don't call me after "x" p.m. or don't call me" or has no phone if in the process of arranging overtime, that employee's turn for overtime arises.
14.	The overtime/absenteelsm records will be posted on bulletin boards at the respective machines. This will be done on a weekly basis on each Wednesday.
107
The records will indicate the overtime for the previous week accumulated for the month and the totalled accumulated overtime for the three (3) previous months. The last posted report shall be used as the basis for administration from 11:00 p.m. that day
15.	On telephoning employees to set up overtime, the following shall apply:
a)	If there is no answer to the call, then no refusal will be charged.
b)	If the call is answered by another person but the employee is not home, the employee will not be charged and the next eligible employee will be called.
16.	If an employee is absent because of leave of absence, sickness, injury or vacation he will be considered to be unavailable apd shall neither be asked or charged. Employees on light duty are ineligible for overtime.
17.	A probationary employee, or a seniority employee who has transferred to another department and has not achieved departmental seniority, shall be charged with overtime accumulated by the average of the highest and lowest Overtime worked by other employees in his job classification within his department.
108
18.	If an emergency situation where prompt action is required when loss or damage to plant, equipment, material, safety of personnel or machinery is concerned, the following procedure will apply. An employee in the trade concerned will be called per the ROTA system, if there is no answer to the call or the employee is not available, the employee will be charged for this emergency overtime. The section applies to maintenance personnel only.
19.	If any of the administration clauses 7,8.9,10. and 11 fail to provide coverage, the departments involved may work short handed and alternative arrangements for breaks, etc. will be made.
20.	An employee who agrees to work overtime and fails to fulfil his/her commitment will be charged with refusing overtime.
Ifthe employee notifies the Company that he/she will not be reporting, in accordance with Company Rule #11, then the Company will fill vacancy using these guidelines. Failing this, the company may fill the vacancy at its discretion. The Company will keep records of employeeswho fail to report after accepting overtime. If the practice continues, the employee will be advised that he shall no longer be asked to work overtime until such time as he confirms, in writing, he is prepared to work all overtime he volunteers for.
109
21.	Employees who have been loan transferred will be eligible for overtime on the third (3rd) day of the transfer in the job to which they were transferred.
However, if the loan transfer is of a one (1) week duration or more, the employee will be eligible for overtime from the first (1st) day, as he will be normally performing the job.
COMPANY RULES
Reprimands, suspensions or discharge may follow infractions of Company rules, typical examples of which are listed.
1)	Stealing Company property or that of fellow workers.
2)	Reporting production falsely or punching other than employee's own card.
3)	Sabotage.
4)	Violation of safety rules.
5)	Refusal to follow grievance procedure as outlined in this Agreement.
6)	Reporting for work intoxicated or under the influence of alcohol or drugs.
7)	Disorderlyor immoral conduct on Company property. 110
110
g) Obtaining employment on basis of false information.
9)	Repeated absenteeism.
10)	Continued lateness
11)	Failure by an employee, who expects to be late or absent, to make a reasonable effort to notify the Company at least one (1) hour prior to his scheduled starting time. Telephone number 623-1631.
12)	Continual unco-operativeness.
13)	Avoidable waste of material.
14)	Defectiveworkmanship.
15)	Low production.
16)	Multiple reprimands.
17)	Endangeringthe life of an employee or that of fellow employees.
18)	Smoking in areas and at limes in which smoking is prohibited.
19)	Insubordination.
20)	Failure to report to foreman when late.
21)	Entering Company premises without authorization when off shift.
111
22)	Leaving work area without authorization at times other than canteen or lunch breaks.
23)	Contributing to an unsanitary condition in the plant by tossing refuse about the plant.
24)	Leaving Company premises during working hours without Company authorization.
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING#!
Mr. C. Renaud, President,
Local #862, U.R.W.,
Canadian General-Tower Limited.
Dear Mr. Renaud:
The Company agrees to provide a "Day"job on steady days for the President of Local #862 when his "regular" job involves rotating shifts, subject to the following conditions:
1.	Seniority will remain and accumulate in his "regular"' Department and he will be entitled to job progression and job posting. When his term of office expires, he will return to his "regular" job, or a job to which he progressed or ajob to which he transferred, consistent with his seniority.
2.	The President will be paid the higher of his "regular" job rate or the equivalent to the Maintenance Electrician rate.
3.	It may be necessary on occasion, due to absenteeism
or emergencies, to assign the President other duties within his "day" job department.
A. It is agreed that overtime in his "day" job department will be shared with the President inthe same manner as other permanent employees.
113
5.	Itisagreedthatthedesignated union officer function-
ing as acting President, in the absence of the President for periods of absence of five (5) days or more, shall be permitted to work 7-3 shift and shall be paid the President’s rate.
Yours truly,
A.S. Currie,
Plant Manager-Cambridge Division.
Acknowledged,
C. Renaud, President, Local #862, U.R.W.
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #2
Mr. C. Renaud, President,
Local #862, U.R.W.,
Cambridge, Ontario.
Dear Mr. Renaud:
This will serve to confirm the following item of understanding reached during recent contract negotiations.
VENTILATION (HEAT) PROBLEMS The Company will endeavour to put all its ventilating and cooling equipment in satisfactory working condition by May 18th of each year.
During the period May through September, the Company will endeavour to provide extra relief time and take all necessary steps to maintain a tolerable work environment as circumstances warrant.
Yours truly,
A.S. Currie,
Plant Manager-Cambridge Division.
Acknowledged,
C. Renaud, President,
Local #862, U.R.W.
115
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING#3
Mr. C. Renaud, President,
Local #862, U.R.W.,
Cambridge, Ontario.
Dear Mr. Renaud:
This will serve to confirm the following item of understanding reached during recent contract negotiations
REHABILITATION PROGRAM PAYMENTS
In the event a disabled employed is medically certified to return to work on a part-time bfisls, such case will be reviewed by our weekly indemnity underwriter to ascertain the kind of rehabilitation work arrangements and financial consideration that would be in the employee's and our Company's best interests. The minimum payment should be equal to the weekly indemnity payment the employee would normally be eligible to receive.
This arrangement is being entered into on an experimental basis with no promises being made other than to consider each case on its own merit.
Yours truly,
A.S. Currie,
Plant Manager-Cambridge Division,
116
Acknowledged,
C, Renaud, President, Local #862, U.R.W.
117
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING^
Mr. C. Renaud, President,
Local #862, U.R.W.,
Cambridge, Ontario.
Dear Mr. Renaud:
This will serve to confirm the following item of understanding reached during recent Contract negotiations.
PENSION BENEFIT
If during the life of the current Agreement, the Company shouldeiect to increase the amount of pensionfor present retirees, the Company will, before making such announcement, discuss each announcement with the local union.
Yours truly.
A.S. Currie,
Plant Manager-Cambridge Division.
Acknowledged,
C. Renaud, President,
Local #862, U.R.W.
118
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #5
Mr. C. Renaud, President,
Local #862,U.R.W.,
Cambridge, Ontario.
Dear Mr. Renaud:
This letter will confirm our understanding reached during contract negotiations.
The Company will pay the Union President of Local#862, U.R.W. and in his absence, his designate, up to a maximum of fifteen hours per week for local Union business. These hours shall not be charged to Clause 6.06 of the current Collective Labour Agreement.
Yours truly,
A.S. Currie,
Plant Manager-Cambridge Division.
Acknowledged,
C. Renaud, President,
Local #862, U.R.W.
119
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING#6
Mr. C. Renaud, President,
Local#862, U.R.W.,
Canadian General-Tower Limited.
Dear Mr. Renaud:
This will serve to confirm the following item of understanding reached during recent contract negotiations.
MAINTENANCE TRAINING PLAN
The Company will during the term of the current Maintenance Training Plan, permit trainees to attend day school classes at George Brown College (Scarborough, Ontario) for three (3) separate eight week periods. Trainees will be expected to attend such classes. During such periods, the Company will pay trainees the first two (2) weeks of each eight week period their current rate of pay when U.I.C. payments do not apply.
The Companywill also provide trainees with a car mileage allowance payment of twenty-seven cents (27) per kilometre provided such trainees travel to and from their classeson a one-car pool basis, In addition, each trainee will be provided with a lunchtime meal allowanceof $6.25 for each day attending classes. ($6.50effective March 1. 1992, $7.00 effective March 1. 1993).
120
Yours truly,
A.S. Currie,
Plant Manager -Cambridge Division
Acknowledged,
C. Renaud, Local #862,
President,
U.R.W.
121
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #7
Mr. C. Renaud, President,
Local #862, U.R.W.,
Cambridge, Ontario.
Dear Mr. Renaud:
This will serve to confirm the following item of understanding reached during recent contract negotiations.
WELFARE BENEFIT PLAN
The Company agrees that the definitions for employee and dependent in Clause2.01 of the Welfare Benefit Plan shall apply to all group insurance plans provided in that agreement.
Yours truly,
AS. Currie,
Plant Manager -Cambridge Division.
Acknowledged,
C. Renaud, President,
Local #862, U.R.W.
122
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #8
Mr. C. Renaud, President,
Local 862. U.R.W.,
Cambridge, Ontario.
Dear Mr. Renaud:
This will serve to confirm the following item of understanding reached during recent contract negotiations.
CONTRACTING OUT
It is the intent of the Company to have maintenance work in the plant performed by Company employees where it is practical to do so provided that: no additional cost will be incurred, employees have the qualifications and experience to perform the tasks involved to specifications, that the Company has the necessary equipment to perform the work, and that the work can be performed within time constraints required by the business. In circumstances where employees of the MaintenanceSkilledTrades Group are on lay-off from plant employment, the Company will offer work of a short duration (i.e. - insufficient to warrant recall to plant employment) to laid off employees qualified to do the work before using outside contractors.
123
Performing work for the Company under these circumstances shall not be considered as a return to active employment.
Whenever possible, the Company will advise the Union President or his designate in advance when an outside contractor is engaged to perform work in the plant.
Yours truly,
A.S. Currie,
Plant Manager -Cambridge Division
Acknowledged,
C. Renaud, President, Local #862, U.R.W.
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #9
Mr. C. Renaud, President,
Local#862, U.R.W.,
Cambridge, Ontario.
Dear Mr. Renaud:
The following summarizes the understanding reached during contract negotiations with regards to identifying when ajob exists within the Cambridge Plant.
In circumstanceswherein either party considers the hours of work being performed, and the frequency of such work to be regular, then the parties shall meet to discuss the situation and make such changes as deemed appropriate.
Yours truly,
AS. Currie,
Plant Manager-Cambridge Division
Acknowledged,
C. Renaud, President,
Local#862. U.R.W.
125
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING#!!)
Mr. C. Renaud, President,
Local #862, U.R.W.,
Cambridge, Ontario.
Dear Mr. Renaud:
The following summarizes the understanding we have developed regarding the practices the Company will follow regardingthe plant schedules throughout the summer months in order to provide continuing customer service while allowing all our employees to enjoy a minimum 2 weeks of continuous vacation in this period.
This letter is intended solely as a basis of administration of schedules for these periods and does not diminish or in any way amend the terms cf the Collective Labour Agreement.
1.	The Company will announce on or before the last Friday in March those departments which are necessary to maintain required continuing supply throughout the year.
2.	Employeesin the plant qualified to perform the work may volunteer to work the "slowdown" period. If complete crews are available from volunteers, regular department employees will then goon vacation in the "slowdown" unless they have made other arrangementswith the department manager. Volunteers will be selected first from the department, then
on a seniority basis from this plant on a job classification basis until the required crewing is complete.
3.	Failing the achievement of full voluntary crewing for any required department lor the "slowdown" under (2) above, employees in required departments will, on a seniority basis within ajob classification, select the two weeks of vacation most desirable to them during the 3 weeks prior to and the week following Civic Holiday. (That is, they will select crew A, B, or C as outlined in attachment 1.) Attachment 1 then indicates which crew will be working and which crews will be on vacation during the 4 week time period.
4.	Employees will be required to advise the Company by the second Friday of April if they wish to volunteer for the "slowdown" period, and by the fourth Friday of April as to their vacation preference (selection of shift A, B, orC).
5.	The Company will post slowdown and related shifting
by April 30th.
6.	Weekend workers will take vacation during the "slow-
down" period as per past practice.
7.	Employees who volunteer and are not included in "slowdown" shifts will be considered for maintenance work and will be advised by June 30th.
8.	If an employee's status changes after April 30th such that his vacation schedule is in conflict with the schedule of a required department, the Company
127
will attempt to cover his planned vacation period. If it is not possible to cover his planned vacation period, he must work.
9.	If the required department is subsequently determined not to be required, employees who cannot change vacation plans to the "slowdown" period will be permittedto complete their vacation as planned, and will be supplied work in the "slowdown" period.
\Ne believe the above arrangements meet both the needs of our customers and our employees in a fair and equitable way.
Yours truly,
AS. Currie,
Plant Manager-Cambridge Division
Acknowledged,
C. Renaud, President, Local #862, U.R.W.
ATTACHMENT1
1.	3 shift department required for all of the "slowdown"
period.
"Slowdown" Civic Holiday Work	B&C-Bhrs. C-Bhrs. A-8hrs. A&B■ ahrs.
Off	A	AB BC C
2.	3 shift department required 1st week of "slowdown" only.
Work	ABC -8hrs. C-8hrs.	Mtc.	A&B-8hrs.
Off	A&B ABC C
3.	3 shift department required 2nd week of "slowdown" only.
Work A&B-8hrs. Mtc. C-Bhrs. ABC-8hrs.
Off	C ABC AB ~~~
4.	2 j/n/r department required for all of the "slowdown".
Wrk
ABhrs. A-8hrs. BBhrs. BBhrs.
Off
129
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING#! 1
Mr. C. Renaud, President,
Local#862, U.R.W.,
Cambridge,Ontario.
Dear Mr. Renaud:
The Company and the Union recognize the social and economic impact of major process technology and equipment changes in the workplace, and accordingly,they will, in future, be guided by the principle that such changes need not automaticallylead to a loss of employment; that they shall work together to implement such changes with the least socio-economic disruption of regular full time employees; and they shall be guided by the principles established in the Memorandum of Agreement regarding automation of the blender/banbury operations at Cambridge.
In the event technological change is to be implemented that significantly alters the employment status of employees, the parties shall meet at the earliest possible date to negotiate a memorandum of agreement to minimize the impact on employees.
Yours tally,.
A S. Currie,
Plant Manager-
130
Cambridge Division Acknowledged,
C. Renaud, Local #862.
President,
U.R.W.
131
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING#!2
Mr. A.S. Currie,
Plant Manager,
Canadian General-Tower Limited,
Cambridge, Ontario.
Dear Mr. Currie:
The Bargaining Committee of Local #862, U.R.C.L. and RW.A. recognize that a job action resulting in the withdrawal of overtime constitutes a breach of the Collective Labour Agreement and the Ontario Labour Relations Act.
The Committee, on behalf of the officers of Local #862 and the membership at large, undertakes to assure the Company there will be no withdrawal of overtime in future negotiationswhile the C.L.A. is legally in effect.
Yours truly,
C. Renaud, President, Local#862,U.R.W.
Acknowledged,
A.S. Currie,
Plant Manager-Cambridge Division.
132
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING#^
Mr. C. Renaud. President,
Local#862, U.R.W.,
Cambridge, Ontario.
Dear Mr. Renaud:
The provisions of Clause 5.15 of the CLA are to insure an employee is transferred to the job of his choice within a reasonable time period of his selectionfor such job.
It is not our intent northat of the Union that this clause be complied with in a frivolous manner using clause 5.10 as justification for circumventing its intent.
The Union and the Company recognize that from time to time circumstances may require an extension of the defined period in 5.15 and agree to discuss same and take appropriate action as may be mutually agreed to.
Yours truly,
AS. Currie.
Plant Manager-Cambridge Division.
Acknowledged,
C. Renaud, President,
Local#862, U.R.W.
133
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #14
Mr. C. Renaud, President Local#862, U.R.W.,
Cambridge, Ontario.
Dear Mr. Renaud:
The Company agrees that the current union office shall be available to Local #862 for its use for the term of the collective agreement.
Yours truly,
AS, Currie,
Plant Manager-Cambridge Division.
Acknowledged,
C. Renaud, President, Local #862. U.R.W.
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #15
Mr. C. Renaud, President
Local#862.U.R.W„
Cambridge, Ontario.
Dear Mr. Renaud:
The Company proposes to create a classification within
Schedule A of the Collective Agreement to be known as
Unclassifiedwith the following purpose and subject to the
conditions indicated.
Purpose
The purpose of the Unclassified classification is to:
1.	Provide a small reserve of employeeswithin the plant to facilitate quicker replacement of employees due to upshifting, retirements, termination, etc. The Company shall keep the Union advised as to its plans for staff levels within Unclassified.
2.	To provide a classification in whichto retainemployees displaced due to lay-off as providedfor in 5.18(h) of the C.L.A.
Conditions
1.	The numberof employees in Unclassifiedat any given
point in time will not be fixed and shall be determined
135
at the discretion of the Coimpany save and except for those number of employees who, due to their seniority, qualify to be Unclassified under 5.18(h).
2.	Employees in Unclassified shall be assigned to a group or groups and assigned responsibilitiesand a shift within their assigned group.
3.	During their time of assignment in a group, Unclass-lied employees will be trained in General Jobs, provide temporary relief to other employees in order to support the training activities within the group, provide temporary coverage for absent employees, complete housekeeping tasks and other duties as assigned.
4.	Employees in Unclassified shall have only plant seniority. They may not acquire job seniority. Their seniority within Unclassified shall be their plant seniority.
5.	Seniority employees who are Unclassified due to a
layoff under 5.18(h) shall have bidding rights. Employees hired to Unclassified shall have no bidding rights.
Vacancies not filled by job progression and/or job posting shall be filled by assigning employeesto the vacancy starting with the most senior employee in Unclassified. If two or more vacancies occur con-
136
currently, the senior employee shall be given the opportunity to fill the vacancy of his choice.
7.	Employeesin Unclassified shall be paid a base rate equivalent to the lowest rate in the plant except in those cases as defined in 5.18(h), as required by 10.06, and subject to 10.08 of the C.L.A.
8.	Seniority employees may not bump Unclassified when laid off under5.18 except as noted specifically in 5.18(h). Entryto this Unclassified group is only via 5.18(h), hiring, and any special cases as may be mutually agreed to by the Company and the Union.
9.	There is no progression in Unclassified nor is it part of any group.
Yours truly,
AS. Currie,
Plant Manager • Cambridge Division.
Acknowledged,
C. Renaud, President, Local #862, U.R.W.
137
MAINTENANCE TRAINING PLAN
This Maintenance TrainingPlan
this 10th day of April, 1991 beh 'een Canadian General-Tower Limited, hereinafter refer ed to as the "Company" and the United Rubber, Corl Linoleum and Plastic Workers of America, AFL-CIO, CLC, Local 862, hereinafter referred to as the "Union".
s made and entered into
General Purpose
To provide the opportunity for tenance Department and failiji! qualify from this department, th departments in the bargaining obtain the training necessary to entry to a given trade classifies^ the Company.
Except as expressly modified this agreement, all other terms and conditions of emploj ment shall be In accordance with the Collective Labour!; parties.
smployees in the Main-ig this, applicants who snee employees in other unit the opportunity to i leetthe qualifications for ion within the service of
Aareement between the
Training Standards
The training standards are designed to meet the requirements for training as Joumeyrrfcn so that a trainee who successfully completes his tracing program may qualify for formal recognition from thelwini-stry of Colleges and
138
Universities, Industrial Trainingl Branch of the Ontario Government
Training Facilities
Employees enrolled in this prodam will be expected to regularly attend night school and/or other similar classes held In recognized learning estal lishments, but excludes regular fiil time attendance at si ch classes.
In-plant on-the-job training undi i neymen tradesmen will be pro within the trainee's training pm" am
r the direction of Jour-■Ided on a broad base
Definitions
"Committee" shall mean a joint] Review Committee organized under this Plan.
"Registration Agency" shall mear the appropriate agency of Government that is responsibly for Training Programs.
'Trainee Agreement" shall meai a written agreement between the Company and the i mployee, employed as a Trainee, (and his parent or gu irdian, if he Is a minor) and approved by the Committee, and reaistered with the Registration Agency.
Trainee" shall mean an employ^ who is under a Trainee Agreementto learn,and assist irf1 ne Trade covered by the Training Program.
"SpecifiedTrades" shall mean -
Electrician
Pipefitter
Millwright
Carpenter
Training Program" shall mearn the terms outlined and included in the Maintenance Tiffining Plan between the parties.
Administration of the Prograi
There shall be established a ccPfl'mittee which shall consist of two (2) members frorrp | he Union and two (2) membersfrom the Company.
The committee shall select fr<J> among themselves a chairman and a secretary.-
Thecommittee shall meet whenv sr it is necessaryto fulfil their responsibility.
It shall be the responsibility of tW 1 committee:
1)	To hear and decide on all qul which relate to their training
itions involving trainees
140
2)	To determine whether the trainee's scheduled wage
increase shall be withheld in the event that he is delinquent in his progress
3)	To offerconstructivesuggesti|)ns forthe improvement
of training on the job.
4)	To certify the names of Trainees who have satisfac-
torily completed their requ rements of training as established herein and recc nmend to the Registration Agency that they be Warded a certificate of completion.
5)	To be responsiblefor the successful operation of the
MaintenanceTraining Program in the plant and the successfulcompletion of thejtrainlng by the Trainees underthis Program.
6)	To meet as may be required two members of the commit
7)	To place trainees under trait«
8)	To see that each trainee is imp
sibilities he is about to acceo he will receive.
or upon the request of ae.
e agreements.
essed with the respon-. as well as the benefits
9)	To cancel the trainee agreement or the trainee at any time for just cause.
141
Requirements for Applicatioi
To be eligible for training under
his program the applicant
must meet the following qualifii ations:
(a) He must meet all the requ Education.
■ements of the Ministry ol
(b)
(c)
He must be 16 years of age or over.
of ade
Exceptions to these requi ements may be made by the Committee for appll ants who have unusual
qualifications which may
Selection of trainees under the the Company from qualified a\
program will be made by pblicants.
Credit for Previous Experlen :e
Applicants who wish to be al owed credit for previous experience may, after accepta ice by the Company, and provided such credit is within he training schedule and acceptable by the Registration Agency, receive credit for recent previous experience i j to a maximum of two years.
pply to the training.
Term of Training
The term of training shall be established for this program in accordance with the schediie of work processes and related instruction as approved by the Registration Agency and outlined in Appendix A lereto.
142
Job Descriptions
Job descriptions for maintenance trade classifications and other general maintenance classifications are attached as Appendix B hereto.
Probationary Period
The first 500 hours of training fo« every trainee shall be a probationary period for the puroase of this training agreement.
If the trainee does not satisfacto ily meet the standard of performance or attendance at i iff-plant facilities during this period, his training program will be cancelled unless a majority of the committee agree to extend the 500 hours by up to but not more than 200 additional hours. If the probationary period is extends J, the progress of the trainee shall then be reviewed again and if still found unsatisfactory,his training progn m will be cancelled immediately without further opportunity of extension.
Hours of Work and Overtime
Trainees shall work the same hodrs and be subject to the same conditions regarding overt me as are Journeymen employees. Where a trainee w arks overtime, he shall receive credit on the term of his tr lining for only the actual hours worked.
143
Wages
Trainees shall receive a progressively increasing wage rate based upon the existing wage rate for the trade to which they are assigned, the mfiimum schedule being as follows:
1st 1,000 hours -wage rate 2nd 1,000 hours ■ wage rate 3rd 1,000 hours -wage rate 4th 1,000 hours ■ wage rate 5th 1,000 hours -wage rate 6th 1,000 hours-wage rate 7th 1,000 hours -wage rate 8th 1,000 hours -wage rate
not less than not less than [6i not less than not less than not less than not less than not less than not less thanl95%
>0% of the Journeyman’s 0% of the Journeyman's 70% of the Journeyman's 75% of the Journeyman’s 30% of the Journeyman’s 35% of the Journeyman’s 90% of the Journeyman’s of the Journeyman’s
s :l
Notwithstanding the above have been employed in somi bargaining unit and who are program will be paid the current' tenance helper classification wage increases during the traifi'
hedule, employees who other occupation in the iccepted into the training it wage rate of the Main-and will receive regular ing
1*
period, based upon the difference for the maintenance helper cla plicable Journeyman's rate, div 1,000 hour training periods of the
between the wage rate ;sification and the ap-ded by the number ol trainee.
When a trainee has completed 8 )00 hours of training on the job and related classroomins rucl ion, he shall be paid the rate of pay paid to skilled joi neymen In the trade in which he has served his training after approval of his completion of training by the con mittee.
Hours spent in classroom instri stion outside the plant shall not be considered hours of tf/ork in computing overtime.
Supervision of Trainee
Trainees will be under the immediate direction of the Foreman of the Maintenance Depaitment. It will be the responsibility of this Foreman to prepare regular reports on the progress on each trainef and to discuss such reports with the trainee.
The committee will receive copies of such reports and may invite comment from eithe the Foreman or the trainee.
Where it is determined by the tenance Department that a trainee as would be appropriate for a trail have the basic ability to be devel >|
:oreman of the Main-is not applying himself ee or that he does not pad into a competent
'145
Journeyman, the Foreman will attention of the committee tor act
If the Trainee Agreement of a seniority provisions of the Collec|i' with respect to lay-off and recall
the matter to the
;t DO.
tr lii
inee is cancelled, the ive Labour Agreement eftall apply.
Seniority
If there is a need to reduce the r umber of trainees in a trade group, such reduction will b( mac e in reverse order of seniority of trainees in that grouj. Rec all will be i n order cf seniority.
All other seniority rights shall be accordance with the Collective Labour Agreement.
Itainee Agreements and Regist ation
nent shall contain a that agreement.
Each individual’s trainee agree clause making this program part
Every applicant shall read this full [ rogram before signing his trainee agreement.
Every trainee agreement shall b i registered after the trainee has satisfactorily compli ted his probationary period and copies distributed to the trainee, the Company, the Union, the Committee and the Registration Agency.
146
Modifications
This training program may be Amended from time to time upon mutual agreement of the Company and the Union, but no change shall have effect upon an existing individual trainee agreement without the :onsent of the trainee and provided such change meets with the approval of the Registration Agency.
It is recognized that any chang i tion Agency which concerns t le training program will be incorp >r. tical.
directed by the Registra-subject material of the ated as directed, if prac-
Trainee Tools
The trainee will be furnished With a tool box and tools of the trade to a maximum value i f $7E.OO by the Company-Ownership of the tool box and :ools shall remain with the Company until the trainee has satisfactorily completed his training. Lost tools shall be replaced by the trainee.
Disputes
A dispute, which cannot be settled within the committee, shall be subject to the Grievance Procedure, commencing at Step 2, under the terms and (x>nditions of the Collective Labour Agreement.
Duration of Agreement
This Agreement shall become e fective on the date of signing and shall remain In full force and effect until February 28,1994 and shall cont tue in effect thereafter from year to year for further periot s of one (1) year each, unless either party shall have {iven written notice of termination or proposals for arm ndments to the other party, notlessthan two (2) months rut not more than three (3) months prior to the expiration d ite or any yearly period thereafter. In the event of written i lOtice of termination or proposals for amendments havin' been given by either party, as herein provided, negotiat >ns shall be carried on during the notice period with a vie v to completing a new agreement. Should negotiations xtend beyond the expiration date, this Agreement shall emain In full force and effect as provided in the Ontario L rbour Relations Act.
In witness whereof, the parties hav s executed this agreement this 10th day of April, 1991.
Signed, sealed and delivered on April 10, 1991 in the presence of
Forthe Company
A Currie L Simons D. Nlckell K. Ash
Foi the Union
C.	R maud
D.	Yi st
F Nc seworthy R.K chen J. Rf d
D. D iwson, Int. Rep.
148
APPENDI) "A"
MaintenanceTraining Agree nent -Term of Training
A trainee underthis program sh al job training for the approxime a trade as outlined in the following
receive in-plant on-the-:e hours of his specified schedule:
ELECTRICIAN
Subject
1. Safety
2. Use of Tools
Approximate
Range
Work Experlenceland Training of Hours
Knowledge of all s recognition and re
tie practices: loval of hazards.
Use of Test Care of use of am neters, voltmeters Equipment chmmeters, warm eters, oscilloscopes, phase rotation Inc cators frequency meters, Insulation testers, stroboscope.
100-300
Use of screwdrive pliers, wrenches, 800-1200 scale, calipers, ml rometer, drill press, portable drl!, taps and dies, hammers, chisels punches, drifts, hacksaw, flies, sol Jering iron, grinder, lathe.
400-600
4. Installation Rigging and slinghg, erecting and 1800-2000 dismantling scaffolding, installing
Subject
Approximate
Range
Work Experience andlfrralnlng of Hours
5. Repair
conduit junction boxes switches, pulling cables, insulatirjj and sealing cables, installing mach res, aligning aid truing, interpretatlc t ot schematics hooking up, testing, Ins allation of lighting systems, contn I systems, communications systems, heating systems.
inc ngc
Disassembly, cleaning starters, switches, con circuit breakers, etc., aid repair ol A.C. and and generators, rewii and stators, skimming cutting commutators dynamic balancing, re replacement of bearing > alignment, removal ant of couplings, drives, v-l alignment of coupling
ind repair of
continuity and insulatio i testing
it oilers, d tassembiy ).C. motors of armature ndunder-s aticand irjovaland i, bearing replacement I elts, eta, is and drives.
6. Maintenance Lubrication and deaniijg of machines, inspection apd
1800-2000
1800-2000
150
Subject
7. Other
Approximate
Range
Work Experience and Training of Hours
alignment anve cleaning commut resetting of brush r, and adjustment checking and adj|sl control circuits, temperature, predsi sensing and indie it
sand couplings, tors, cleaning and s, cleaning switch contacts, itment of ibratlon of iure, light, etc., iting devices.
Relatedtraining in: mathematics-geom., alg., trig., layout- readingnjal physics, electridt) A.C. and D.C. the xy, ;, heatir g,
generators, electron ictheory, control systems, rjoi systems. Safety regulations.
Total hours for qui lification
£ -id trade theory arithmetic, Irawings & iking, mechanics, & magnetism.
motors and , lighting, ransducers, mmunlcation i jles and
400-800
8000
15
Subject
PIPEFITTER
1.	Safety
2.	Shop Techniques
3. Pipe Materials
4. Welding
Work Experience ane
Knowledge of all safe Recognition and remo
radices; al of hazards.
Identification, use and hand tools related to ttje portable tods, power equipment as: grinder! drill presses, pipe cuttr r: pipe threaders, power reamers, power hamrrfei
rare of trade; t{>ols and drills, s,
rises,
irs and saws.
Identification, properties, uses of types of pipe galvanized and stainli wrought iron, brass, aluminum, bronze, nicfli plastic, glass.
tx ndi
Gas equipment as rel; ;i
heating, cutting and Electric arc • A.C. and cutting and welding tei identification and uses electrodes and fluxes, soft soldering, brazing 162
Approximate
Range
Training of Hours
,and black, lets steel, ir,
el,
E >
coper,
ted to metal
ling.
D.C.,
hniques,
of
Hard and Boiler
100-300
400-800
100-200
400-600
Subject
5. Pipe
Work Experlenc
and pressure ves sel regulations,
Pipe
Joining
7. Rigging
and "Raining
Cutting, threadin; Preparation
reaming, flaring Bending, bevelling.
Ranges, swing, expansion type jcfni related seals am
gasscr, and its and their id gaskets.
Erection and use scaffolds. Identif of hoisting equipi and rope blocks, gin poles, hooks, rollers, damps, knot tying, hoist
S. Installation Procedures
Boilers, radiators, oomerters, traps, return piping and
}f ladders and ipation and use as: chain vinches, tripods, slings, jacks, f ope splicing,
s gnals.
unit heaters, supply and accessories,
for low pressure tnd high pressure steam s stems, process piping, hydraulic | resses, pneumatic and hi draulic piping.
9. Pumps and Condensate retun, boiler feed Injectors water, and vaouui i pumps, types 15S
Approximate
Range
of Hours
200-400
400-600
1500-2200
800-1000
Subject
10. Valves
11. Controls
12. Other
Work Experience an training
and uses, Installation alignment, duplex con Suction and pressure lubrication and coolinj and vibration eliminati
nd
lections.
lead,
noise
m.
Identification and use operated globe, gate, quick-opening valves, reducing, temperaturi pressure relief, pressijri regulating and steam motorized valves.
Solenoid
Indoor-outdoor controls, steam and essure
air temperature and pje: controls, recorders, controls, gauges.
Related training and t ade theory in: mathematics - ari rniefc, geom., alg., trig., drat ings & layout ■ reading - mal ing, physics, mechanics.
Approximate
Range
of Hours
if manually :heckand Pressure ■^control, e
xmtrol id valves.
h midity
600-800
600-600
Use and care of hanaano power tools, 400-600
Subject
MILLWRIGHT
1.	Safety
2.	Shop Techniques
Wont txperienqe ana training
Safety rules and
Properties of ferr ws, non-ferrous,
and non-metaliic
Approximate
Rang
of Houn
•egulations.
dipe. Friction
losses, rates of flow, heat transfer, principles of refrii eration, humidity, pressure, vacuur, hydraulics, boiler and pressure ve? ;el regulations. Local and Provin ial Building Codes.
Total hours lor qualification.
800C
Knowledge of all recognition and ri Good housekeeping,
lafe practices; •dmoval of hazards.
50-100
Care and use of f ammers, screwdrivers, 700-900 chisels, files, wrei ches, punches, drifts, pliers, snip:, drills and reamers, taps ant dies, hacksaws, gauges, rules, sqt ares, protractors, dividers. Care an I use of precision measuring equipn ent Fastening devices. Solderln | techniques. Care
anduseofportab! drills, impact tools 155
i air/electric saws and power
Subject
3. Rawer Saws & Shears
4.	Drill Presses & Radial Drills
5.	Lathes
6. Grinders
Approximate
Range
Work Experience anjf Training of Hours
actuated tools. Tool crib and stores procedures. Fabricatpn of assemblies: material selection, laybut, forming, bending. General fitting practice.
Care and use ol reallocating,	100-200
circular, band and cut off saws.
Speeds and feeds. C rolanls. Blade replacement. Operati m and maintenance of manual and power hears. Shearing operations and procet ures.
Set-up, operation and and feeds, coolants, spot-facing, counterbc^ii trepanning, honing,
maintenance 100-200 c )untersinking, ing, reaming, iping and polishing.
la ’I
Set-up, operation and work-holding methods tools, speeds and feet s. Centering, turning, fac boring, reaming, threa f knurling, spring-windir j.
Portable, pedestal, be ch, belt, and surface. Set-up a id operation, abrasive wheels, whet I dressing, coolants. External, internal, off-hand grinding.
156
maintenance: Cutting Coolants, ng, drilling, l-cutting,
200-300
100-200
Subject
7. Milling Machines
Shapers & Slotters
Metallurgy
and
Inspection
10.
Welding & Brazing
Approximate
Range
Work Experienceland Training of Hours
Horizontal, vertica Set-up, operation cutters, aitachmei speeds and feeds
universal.	200-300
ind maintenance,
;, work holding, coolants. Index head use.
!t tS.
Set-up, operation cutting tools, acce and feeds, coolan s,
ind maintenance, isories, speeds work holding.
Heat treatment. Non-destructive testing, hardness, particle, fluorescejil dye penetrant Hjjdi
Arc, oxyacetylenf set-up, operation of equipment erecting componi fitting tacking, wel brazing. Building surfaces. Hard fafcii
magnetic it, ultra-sonic, Irostatic testing.
resistance: nd maintenance ing methods,
:, cutting, ilbing, and jp worn ing.
Hoii
le its
11, Machine Installation,adjusi nent and Components removal of bearin is, seals, shafts, couplings, dutche», keys, drives (belts, chains, get rs) levers, cams, screws and sprint s.
157
200-300
100-200
200-300
2000-3000
Subject 12. Hydraulics
13. Pneumatics
14.	Lubrication
15.	Machine Installation
Approximate
Range
Work Experience aAd Training of Hours
Systems and compo testing, and mainten accumulators, contn piping, hose, filters, cylinders, motors, ac heat exchangers. G i fluids, packings and controls and intertoclfe.
tents: installation, 300-500 ince • pumps,
•t valves, iservoirs, uators, boosters, luges. Hydraulic j eals. Safety
Systems and compo ents: installation, 300-500 testing and maintena ice - compressors, air receivers filters, It oricators,
Ians and blowers, mufflers, controls, valves, motors, actuaors, cylinders, fittings, gauges. Safety circuits and interlocks. Remote controls and pilot operated systems.
Identification and app ication of 100-200 lubricants: oils, greases, graphites, etc Preve Hive maintenance procedi ros.
Foundation - layout, k cation,	1000-2000
excavating, formwork
Rigging methods - ho sts, slings,
ropes, attachments, ji 158
and anchorage.
cks, rollers,
Subject
Work Experienceland Training
Approximate
Range
of Hours
16.
17. Other
G y
and scaffolds. Mi and alignment, hook-ups. Run-of adjusting and tesi installations and
line levelling mting. Electrical check. Running-In, ;ti[ig machine lodated services.
a:s<
Materials
Handling
Equipment
Conveyors - belt, bucket elevators -maintenance. Bri0< use, operation, in: maintenance, power operated lif
Mail
crew; roller and nstallation and ge and gib a anas: i! action and itenance of hand anc trucks.
Related training a d trade theory in: mathematics - aril imetic, geom., alg., trig. Physics; me hanlcs, electricity. Drafting: blueprln reading, schematic Interpretation.
Metric system.
Safety rules and Care and use of tr power and machlr 3 and locking device measurement Mi and non-ferrous treatment, non-de 159
ide related hand, tools. Fasteners s. Precision ijtallurgy: ferrous itals, alloys, heat itructive testing.
(I Bl
300-400
600-600
Subject
CARPENTER
1. Tools
2.	Millwork
3.	Shop Techniques
Approximate
Range
Work Experience ajid Training of Hours
Plasters, ceramics a Machine, crane, con bearings, power tran ;i Hydraulics, pneumai instrumentation. Ma Installation and run-c f. oxy-acetylene cutting and brazing.
id carbides, eyor; mechanisms, smission systems, cs. electrics, ihine rigging,
I. Arc and welding
Total hours for qualifi
lation.
6000
Ide il
Safety practices, use and care of harx portable tools, power equipment Sharper by grinding, whetting
itification, tools, tools and rig tools or filing.
Make patterns, temp forms. Build sash art) and door frames. SI cabinets, stairs.
Use of power machir r, saw, variety saw, plat band saw, drill press.
200-400
ates, and doors, sash Ihfelving,
is as: cut-off ier, jointer, lathe.
700-900
2000-2200
160
Subject
4.	Joints
I
5.	Construction
6.	Exterior & Interior Finish
7.	Other
Work Experienceland Training
Identification and i and Jointing metho): lap, half lap, mortk a tenon, mitre, dove
se of joints Isas: butt, and
ail double tenon.
Layout and build ladders, scaffolds, partitions, floors, trusses, eq'uipmen bases, packing err
c ancrete forms, walls, i, docks, and machine and pallets.
ri ofs, i
i les i
Installing windows sheeting, panelling ceilingtile.trim.
Related training ar In: mathematics geom., aig., trig., layout-reading, -types of wood anjl -safety practices -use and care of -use of measuring techniques, rule, bevel square, etc • National & Muni Total hours for qu 161
Approximate
Range
of Hours
200-300
2000-2200
doors, floor and
1000-1200
d trade theory arithmetic, c -swings &
, mechanics, their uses
400-800
p lysics, i
I and and power tools devicesand steel square,
ic pal Building Codes ir ification
8000
APPENDIX
MAINTENANCE DEI ARTMENT
f th s
It is the intent of the job descripti generally outline the scope of tions in the Maintenance Departrjv tion of competence of the emplo; not Intended, nor Is It to be co descriptions will in any way restr or the activities of the tradesmf necessary by supervision or mai time, the Company agrees that it normal circumstances assign skiljj work in other trade classification
ms contained herein to various job classifica-ent and permit evaluates in these jobs. It is istrued, that these Job ct or limit trades areas n as it may be found rjagement. At the same v ill not regularly or under d trades employees to
The function of the Maintenance tain mechanical equipment in gi and keep the equipment downtim i keeping loss of production down in mind, complete co-operation a trades groups and tradesmen is
Each job description contained herein will be construed to include the following:
A qualified maintenance employe 3
must be capable of performi the job description within tht quality established by the Ci
B"
Department is to main-qod operating condition to a minimum, thereby a minimum. With this id assistance between paramount necessity.
lg the work outlined in standards of time and mpany
162
must work and co-operate with other maintenance employees and other personnel as necessary to expedite the work
must have a knowledge and adhere to Company regulations, safety rules r nd fire procedures
must work in accordanc 3 including leaving the job syte condition
It is recognized that an emplo opportunity to perform all the Jqb tion.
ree may not have had the is listed In his job descrip-
It Is understood that it would to describe every detail of eac 1 descriptions attached hereto the normal duties of each trad
with good job practices in a clean, safe and tidy
fcs
Impracticable to attempt trade. Therefore, the job cbntain a general outline of ; classification.
JOURNEYMAN TRADE CLASSIFICATIONS QUALIFIC/ TIONS
Required to possess or have following, within the specified
achieved at least one of the rade classification.
Worked 5 years or morr Must produce documen previous employers acci substantiate the periods to pass written Company
during the last 10 years, ary proof in writing from idptable to the Company to >f time and/or be prepared tests if required.
163
b)	Have completed an indentured apprenticeship and able to produce substantiating documents.
c)	Be the holder of a current Skilled Trades Journeyman's Card or Certificate and able to produce substantiating doct. nents.
d)	Is employed with the Comp iny and has previously qualified as a tradesman.
e)	Powerhouse Operator qualif
Must have a minimum of o le (1) year experience (experience and qualificatio is may be accepted in lieu) during (he last five (5) years in the operation and maintenance of powerhouse equipment, includ-
es tions:
ing high pressure steam t Must be able to obtain or
oilers and auxiliaries, possess a 4th Class
Stationary Engineer's ticket yr its equivalent,
ii) Must have experience in the Rampling and treatment of water for boiler operations.
An employee who joins the Com tradesman who does notqualifyu will be required to meet the req within two (2) months from his da
During such period the employee probationary employee and shall cents per hour below the journey
Iiy as a journeyman r(b) (c) or(d) above irements of (a) above
{ employment.
:
be considered as a |>aid at the rate of 15 i rate.
164
It will be the responsibility of period to take whatever action documentary proof required b' such is not forthcoming befort will be required to take and
pas:
the employee during this is necessary to obtain the section (a) above, and if the end of this period he is the Company test.
If such an employee fails documentary proof or falls to shall be released from emi recourse.
t<
produce the necessary dass the Company test, he iloyment without further
Further, an employee who with n the two (2) month period qualifies under (a) above them such employee's wages shall progress in the manner provided for in the Collective Labour Agreement (10.08 refep) but retroactive from the date of his qualifying.
SUMMARY 0
DUTIES
Electrician
nt
Proficiently and safely lay oul repair, connect ortestelectrica equipment, electronic equipm cf alarm, communication, lightf or other structures. Carry o: inspections. Plan proposed ir sketches or specifications ant boxes, pull boxes and other Operate efficiently tools ap| trade. Measure, cut, thread,
assemble, install, adjust, fixtures apparatus, control snt and wiring for systems , heator power in buildings preventive maintenance stallations from blueprints, install panel board, switch related electrical devices, iplopriate to the electrician tend, assemble and Install
16!
conduitsand assemble othertype 5 of c lectrical connector enclosures that connect panels, 1Dxes, outlets, and othei related electrical devices, Install ^racket and hangers 01 equipment for supporting electric il equipment. Install in
or draw electrical conductor enclosures. Prepare conductors
i through conductor or splicing ot electrical
connections, secure conduit or c< nnections by soldering or other mechanical means and reinsulate and protect conductor connections. Test elec ical equipment system and circuits for continuity short ar i open circuits, ground insulation, proper timing, heatris > ard cascading. Calculating sizes of motors, genera ors transformers, circuits, feeders, cables, wires, f ercentage overloads, power factor efficiency, horsepower i equirements. Make out and/or report payroll and prodlclion information. Assist other tradesmen to the best ability during emergency periods. Keep equipment, tools and work area clean and orderly. Perform related duties adassinnad.
MACHINISTTOOLMAKER
layo rt
i tolei 31 die s,
Proficiently and safely plan, machine tool capacities, all mill grinding, etc., operations to a new and repair damaged tools, ments, etc., and install into positi includes the machinist duties whic i safely plan, lay-out and perform capacities, all milling, shaping, tui etc., operations to a tolerance of .0
and perform within ng, shaping, drilling, nee of .0002". Make , jigs, fixtures, instru-)r as required. Also are: proficiently and within machine tool drilling, grinding, 105*. Make new parts
ti ling
166
or repair damaged parts, instai into position, as required, e.g. gears, shafting, clutches, t sarings (sleeve, babbitt or anti-friction), castings, keys a id keyways for all plant equipment. Select and mainta n machinery tools for efficient performance. Work to fits and tolerances. Correctly read and interpret blueprints, specifications, instructions and sketches. Use measuring devices and general precision instruments in performing machining operations. Operate electric and gas welding and cutting equipment. Make out and/or rep< rt payroll and production information. Assist other trac esmen to the best ability during emergency periods, k lep equipment, tools and work area dean and orderly. Perform related duties as assigned.
MACHINIST
Proficiently and safely plan machine tool capacities, all ml ing, grinding, etc., operation:
ayout and perform within ling, shaping, turning, drill-to a tolerance of .0005".
Make new parts or repair d imaged parts, install into position as required, e.g. gea s, shafting, clutches, bearings (sleeve, babbitt or anti-fi iction), castings, keys and keyways lor all plant equiprr ent. Select and maintain machinery tools for efficient lerformance. Work to fits and tolerances. Correctly re; d and interpret blueprints, specifications, Instructions an I sketches. Use measuring devices and general precisioi instruments in performing machining operations. Make < iut and/or report payroll and production information. Ass
st other tradesmen to the
16 ’
best ability during emergency peijods. Keep equipment, tools and rak area clean and o|deriy. Perform related duties as assigned.
MILLWRIGHT
Proficiently and safely layout, In .tall, repair, check, inspect, adjust, maintain, dismantle and perform troubleshooting on all types of ma ;hlnery and equipment in the plant pertaining to job an I carry out preventive maintenance inspections and do incidental cleaning on all mechanical equipment. Oper ite efficiently tools appropriate to the millwright trac 3 and perform basic machining and fitting operation:; Correctly read and interpret blueprints, specifications, instructions and
and tolerances. Use eclslon instruments in and in installing the
sketches. Work to specified fits measuring devices and general p erecting machinery foundations machines and equipment in corredt position and in align
’erform minor electric special attachments, ors and other similar
ing power shafting and pulleys, and gas welding and cutting. Affi set dies, repair belts and convej duties. Make out and/or report f ayroll and production information. Assist other tradesn en to the best ability during emergency periods. Keek work area clean and orderly. Per orm related duties as assigned.
168
PIPEFITTER
Proficiently and safely layout, install, adjust, do Incidental
cleaning, repair, overhaul, rep
troubleshooting on all piping, tubing, hoses, fittings, gauges, valves, controls spray puns, and equipmenthandling or using water, air gas, s earn, oil or other process liquids for plant services and p roductlon machines. Per form plumbing installations preventive maintenance inspe
ace, inspect and perform
and repairs. Carry out itiors. Inspect, install and
make repairs to pipe coverim is and general insulation. Correctly read and interpret blueprints, specifications, instructions and sketches. U re efficiently all tools and machines appropriate to this trade. Work to specified tolerances. Use measuring d ;vices and general instruments in performing trade 0| eiations. Familiarity and knowledge of appropriate codi s, regulations, packing "0" rings, cups, rings, etc. and thpir proper use. Make out and/or report payroll and production information. Assist other tradesmen to the best! ability during emergency periods. Keep equipment, too s and work area clean and orderly. Perform related duties as assigned.
CARPENTER
Proficiently and safely layout make, repair, modify and finish benches, partitions, c ibinets, material handling
devices, doors, framework, w
ndows, floors, roofs, office
furniture, structural woodwork, cutting glass and glazing,
and forms for concrete work, 163
Carry out repairs to web
correcting equipment such al expander rolls, edge guiders. Operate and maintain sandblasting equipment. Proficiently and safely use and maintain hand tools and power equipment pertaining to the carpentry trade. Experienced in proper use of glues! adhesives, finishes and general carpentry supplies. Coirectly read and interpret blueprints, specifications, instluctions and sketches. Carry out preventive maintenance inspections. Make out and/or report payroll and produr tion information. Assist other tradesmen to the best a rility during emergency periods. Keep equipment, tools, ind work area clean and orderly, perform related duties £ s assigned.
POWERHOUSE OPERATOR
The Powerhouse Operator is ,n*Konslble for operating and maintaining powerhouse ei [uipment In a safe and efficient manner. Duties include :he following:
a)
b)
Operate, maintain and makp justments to all powerhou steam generators, refrigeijal compressors, air dryers, c conditioning equipment.
Keep daily log and records and condition of steam, wa and prepare Monthly Summary
minor repairs and ad-e equipment including ition compressors, air roling tower and water
of consumption, quality er, gas, chemicals, etc. of Performance.
170
c)	Perform regular preventive maintenance inspections, lubrication and maintain equipment and area in a clean and orderly fas! ion.
d)	Paint walls, floors and equi iment as required.
e)	Train relief operators to pro' ide a back-up for periods
of absence for vacation, s ckness, etc.
f)	Make out and/or report pay all information.
g)	Perform related duties as a .signed.
OILER
Responsible for the application of lubricants as recommended in our Organized Plant Lubrication Program to the moving parts or wearing surfaces of all plant equip-
in keeping all lubricants proper amount reaches tanks, sumps and othei e proper lubricants. Must lubricants and report on
ment. Exercise extreme care clean and insuring that the moving parts. Keep pumps, lubricating systems filled with tt e maintain adequate supplies a I condition of equipment which ie considers may require adjustment or repair. Service t nd repair various types ol lubricating equipment such as' iret se guns, automaticoil and grease distributors, air Hr e lubricators and grease pumps. Maintain and restori good housekeeping at machines and work areas by 'amoving any excess accumulation of lubricants, deai i oil pans and drip trays, Repair and align conveyor belt: and install new conveyoi
171
and V-belts as necessary. Maint lin adequate supplies of conveyor belting and V-belts. U >e equipment, tools and instruments relating to the job as required and/or as directed. Make out and/or repoi t payroll and production information. Keep equipment, tc ols and work area clean and orderiy. Perform related dutjes as assigned.
STOCKKEEPER
Duties to consist of receiving, recording, storing and issuing of maintenance equipmi nt, tools and materials.
Repairs to slitter knife holders an
1 hoses. Grinding slitter
knives. Repairand/or make leat rer brake bands. Clean
nd tap for set screws, requirements. Report
up aluminum core plugs, drill ; n Reorder supplies to minimum broken and misusedequipment t > supervisor. Use equipment, tools and instruments relatpg to the job as required and/or as directed. Make out and/or report payroll and production information. Keep equipment, tools and work area clean and orderly. Perforiji related duties as assigned.
HELPER
Assist tradesmen in their worn ..,^,u....ig, repairing or dismantling of equipment or structures. Perform general labouring duties: work under close supervision of tradesmen. Use simpler types of equipment and tools of the tradework which he is assigned si ch as hammer, wrench, ladder, scaffold, hoist, bar, sere', 'driver, pliers, saw with rough skill only. Obtain supplies,{{tools and equipment as
172
172
instructed, hold material and rougher tasks common to th signed. Use equipment, tool1, power) relating to the job as r Make out and/or report payn tion. Keep equipment, tools orderly. Perform related dutie
JANITOR
Maintaining designated area sanitary condition,observingE tices. Use equipment and t required and/or as directed, payroll and production infori tools and work area clean ar duties as assigned.
ioIs, perform the simpler trade to which he is as-md instruments (hand or lulred and/or as directed, and production informa-nd work area clean and as assigned.
of plant in a clean and good housekeepingprac-ils relating to the job as Make out and/or report ition. Keep equipment, orderiy. Perform related

171