(K
BUILDING
PRODUCTS
LABOUR AGREEMENT
Mmto
KRBUILOINQ PRODUCTS LTD ACTON PLANT
And
UNITED STEEL. PAPER AND PORESTRY. RUBBER, MANUFACTURING. ENERGY, ALLIED INDUSTRIAL AND SERVICE WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION
{UNITED STEH.WONKERSI (HERHNAFTER ■'THE UNITED STEELWORKERS”)
ON BEHALF OF ITS LOCAL 6031
2011 -2*10
CONTRACT
00764 (09)
Table of Contents
Article 1 - Definitions.......................... 1
Article 2 - Validity of Clauses.................. 1
Article 3 - Company Recognition..................2
Article 4 - Union Recognition & Jurisdiction.....2
Article 5 *- Probationary Period..................5
Article 6 - Contracts ...	. 6
Article 7- Obligations. „	.6
Article 8 - Hours of Work	13
Article 9 - Overtime Rates &
Premium Compensation.................. 14
Article 10 - Vacations..............................20
Article 11 - Recognized Holidays....................24
Article 12 - Classifications A Rales................27
Article 13- Seniority ....	28
Article 14 - Promotions	30
Article 15- Ldy-Offa....	31
Article 16-Job Posting	32
Artide 17- Grievance Procedure......................36
Arttde 18- Union Committee..........................42
Article 19 - Health & Safety	43
Artide 20 - Notice Boards	45
Article 21- Leave of Absence........................45
Article 22 - Duration of Agreement .................46
Appendix *A" - Standard Hourly Wage Rates...........48
Appendix "B" - Summary of Benefits..................51
Appendix *C" - Severance language.................. 52
Letter(s) of Understanding..........................53
Appendix *D* - Schedule for Shift Rotation.......... 55
ARTICLE 1 DEFINITIONS
1.01 COMPANY-KP Building Products Ltd. With respect to its plaits at Helton Hills {Acton}. Ontario.
1.02 UNION - Unled Steel. Paper aid Forestry.
Rubber, Manufacturing, Energy, Allied Industrial and Service Workers International Union (United Steelworkers) (Hereinafter The United Steelworkers') on behalf of its* Local 605-1
103 ABILITY -The word ’abitty“ wherever used In this Agreement means knowledge, skill, training and efficiency as determined by the Company, without additional training, for purposes of said determination.
t .04 SENIORITY • The penal of time during which the employee has been actively employed in the plant without any of the Interruptions. cause loss of seniority as. specified in Section 13.04.
ARTICLE 2 VALIDITY OF CLAUSES
2.01	Any provtsion of this Agreement which may be or may become in conflict wfth present or future provisions of Federal or Provincial laws, or orders-in Council by same, becomes by that fact nuH and void without affecting die validity of the
remainder of the present Agreement.
ARTICLE 3 COMPANY RECOGNITION
3,01	The Union recognizes that the Company retains all the customary and normal functions of Management except as I hey are expressly restricted by the terms of the Agreement. This Agreement supersedes and cancels all prior agreements, understandings, and practices, whether verbal or written, express or implied and constitutes the entire agreement between the parties.
ARTICLE 4 UNION RECOGNITION & JURISDICTION
4.01	(a) The company recognizes the union as the sole and exclusive bargaining agent for all employees at Its Acton plant, save and except foremen, persons above the rank of foreman, office, sales, technology, and laboratory employees.
(b)	Where the masculine pronoun is used herein, it shall mean and include the feminine pronoun where the context so applies
4.02	The present Agreement applies to all persons with employee status except:
(a)	Foreman and parsons above the tank of foreman.
(b)	Office staff.
(c)	Sales staff.
(d)	Technology Department, including Laboratory employees.
4.03	Employees outside the bargaining unit wifi not perform work normally done by employees within the bargaining unit. However, this Agreement cannot be construed to prohibit them from doing work for purposes of instruction, experimentation or research or in the case of an emergency, to facilitate production, provided a lay-off of bargaining unit employees does not result.
4.04	Any employee who is a member of the Union In good standing shall, as a condition of employment maintain his membership to the extent of paying membership dues. Any person hired as a new employee and any employee who is hereafter transferred into the Bargaining Unit, shall make application for membership in the Union on the date of employment or transfer and shall, as a condition of employment, maintain his membership in the Union to the extent of paying membership dues.
4.05	(a) The Company agrees that all employees shall become and remain members of the Union as a condition of their continued employment.
-3-
5
(b)	The Company shall deduct Union dues including, where applicable, initiation tees and assessments, on a bi-weekly basis, from Ihe wages of each employee covered by this agreement. The amount of dues shall be calculated in accordance with the Union's Constitution.
(c)	Afl dues, initiation fees and assessments shaS be remitted to the Union forthwith and in any event no later than iSdays following (he last day of (he month to which the remittance was deducted. The remittance shat! be sent to the International Secretary Treasurer of the United Steelworkers. AFl-CIO-CLC, 1158 Aerowood Drive Mississauga ON. L4W1Y5 in such form as shall be directed by the Union to the Company along veth a completed Dues Remittance Form R-115. A copy of the Dues Remittance Form R-115 w»l also be sent to the Unton office designated by the Area Coordinator.
However, (he union wHI provide the company with thirty (30) days' notice of any change to the amount of fees, dues, or assessments to be made or deducted.
(d)	The remittance and the R-115 term shall be accompanied by a statement containing the following information:
i) A list of names of ail employees from whom dues were deducted and the amount of dues deducted;
-A .
5) A list of the names of aH employees from whom no deductions have been made and reason:
iif) This information shall be sent to both Union addresses identified in Article 4.QS c) in such form as shall be directed by the Union and Company.
(e)	The Union shaH indemnify and save the Company harmless against all claims or other forms ot liability that may arise out of any actions taken by the Company In compliance with this Article.
(0 The Company, when preparing T-4 sups for the employees, win enter the amount of Union dues paid to the employee during the previous year.
4.06 ft any employee works less than 40 hours in any month ho shall not be required to pay Union dues lor that month unless this policy is changed by the constitution of the United Steelworkers,
ARTICLE 5 PROBATIONARY PERIOD
5.01	Ati employees sheH be on probation for the first 960 norma! working hours of their employment accumulated during a nine (9) month period. The exception to the above being maintenance department personnel who wil be on probation for the first 1440 normal working hours of their
•5-
employment accumulated during a nine (9) month period. Probationary employees win become eligible for benefits after the completion of 90 days of active employment
5.02	The Company has the right to terminate an
employee on probation without recourse on the part of the Union and any such termination cannot constitute a grievance provided (hat this right shall not be used for the purpose of discrimination against said employee under the Ontario Human Rights Code or for Union activity.
ARTICLE 6 CONTRACTS
6.01 The Union recognizes thattbis Agreement cannot be construed to affect contracts or subcontracts that the Company may award to have work done, nor limit the Company’s right to make such contracts or sub-contracts.
ARTICLE 7 OBLIGATIONS
7.01 The Union wifi not engage in Union activities during working hours or hold meetings at any time orr the promises of the Company without the permission of the Plant Manager or his representative.
7.02	The Union and the Company agree that there shall be no strikes, slowdowns or lockouts during
-6-
the currency of this Agreement. The. purpose of this provision is to prohibit any interruption of production of operations during the life of this Agreement, in the event activity prohibited by this section occurs during the life of this Agreement, the Company shall have the right to discipline or discharge any employee participating in any violation of this section, without recourse, except to establish the fact of toe offense.
7.03	(a) When a shift begins: each employee is
required to be al his place. At the end of the shift, no employee is to leave his place until his replacement has reported to take on the responsibly of the job unless said employee can provide an acceptable reason prior to leaving as to why he cannot remain on the job until his replacement arrives. In this event. aH machines wftf be maintained on a productive basis by the crew on hand. H an employee is required to remain at his place, the foreman will obtain a relief as soon as possible.
7.04	(a) Employees covered by this Agreement shall be provided We, disability, and medical benefits as Summarized in Appendix “B*. The benefits and plans of insurance referred to in Appendix *B* are qualified in their entirety by reference to the underlying polities of insurance. The terms of any contract, statute or regulation In respect thereof by any insurance agency or governmental agency
. 7.
shaft be controlling in alt matters pertaining to qualification of employees with benefits there under and in aH matters pertaining to the existence of and extent of benefits and conditions. The employer's only obligation hereunder is to pay the portion of premiums contracted for. but the employer shall not be considered to be an insurer or surrogate With respect to any benefit or plan referred to ' herein. Any Issue concerning the existence of and extent of benefits, eligibility or entitlement, and coverage, shall not be subject to the grievance procedure and shaif not be arbitrable under this agreement. Further, eligibility or entitlement to benefits must be pursued against the insurer in accordance with the underlying policies of insurance and, if necessary, thrown the civil justice system. However, the employer will provide administrative assistance to employees that encounter difficulty in making clams with the insurance company and will help facilitate dialogue between the employee and the insurance company
(b)	The benefit plana referred to in Appendix ‘B" win apply to employees on layoff and leave of absence tor thirty (30) days, and wilf apply to employees on medical and WSIB leave for twenty-four (24) months, whereupon the benefit ptens will no longer apply.
7.05	Written warning notices and suspensions which are to become parts of the employee's record
shad be presented to the employee in the presence of die steward or chief steward whenever possible. In the event that neither of the above is available a member of the bargaining unit shall be present.
With the exception of discipline resulting from misconduct involving harassment or discrimination or safety, if there is a period of 2 years or more in which (he employee has no discipline (discipline-free period), any discipline which occurred before the discipline-free period will not be considered as a basts for future disciplinary action against the employee.
No disciplinary action wfli be taken after fourteen (14) calendar days after the employer became aware of the action, unless die company advises the union in writing that it is necessary to extend this period.
7.06	When an employee is discharged the Company agrees to notify him diet he may see his Union Steward or an officer of the Union prior to hts leaving the premises if he so requests, it is understood that once die employee leaves the premises ha may not return wttioui permission from the Company.
7.07	It is agreed that Part XIV, Pregnancy and
Parental Leave, of the Employment Standards Act. forms part of this Agreement.
7.08	The Company shall comply with the law in
dealing with an employee incapacitated either by age. sickness or injury, and no longer capable of performing the employee's regular job, as certified by a doctor approved by the Company.
7.09	The parties agree that * Is the exclusive
prerogative of the employer to determine and direct the running condition of any production line, including, but not fmited to, tha speed and temperature of the tine, ti shall be the responsibly of the operator to physics 8y change the running condition of the fine as directed by the employer. However, maintenance personnel may be required from time to tine, in conjunction with the operator, to change the settings and/or running condition of any production extruder.
7.10	Employees win have the option of contributing to the Union Humanity Fund.
7.11	Company Safety Shoe Policy: The Company may pay for Safety Shoe purchase according to dtp following schedule:
Maintenance Personnel - Two (2) pair per year on an as needed basts. $130.00/pa«r AS Other Personnel • One (1) pair per year $130 00/pair
The employer win not pay a Safely Shoe allowance to any probationary employee.
-10-
7.12	The Company will provide pension benefits as set forth in the AST CANADA LIMITED PENSION PLAN, JANUARY. 1996, which is fully incorporated herein by reference. The plan, which will include employee and Company contributions, is effective April 1,199? Company contributions may be invested m the same investment options as the employee contributions.
7.13	Statement of Non-Discrimination, Sexual Harassment and Safety
(a)	Non-Oisavninetton
The Company shall not petmft and the Union shall not condone discrimination against any employee based on membership In any protected group. The Company shat not permit and the Union shed not condone any form of harassment, joking remarks or other abusive conduct directed at employees because of membership in any protected group.
(b)	Unsafe Conduct
The Company shall not permit and the Union shall not condone unsafe conduct by any employee.
(c)	Sexual Harassment
The Company shal not permit and the Union shall not condone sexual harassment because it is intimidating, an abuse of power and unlawful. Sexual harassment is defined
■ 11 •
ae unwelcome sexual advances, requests far sexual favors and other verbal or physical conduct of a sexual nature. Sexual harassment can take the forms of:
i) Sexual conduct that Interferes with another person's work performance or creates an kill mi da ting, hostile or offensive work environment.
ft) Personnel decisions (e.g, promotions, raises, scheduling) made by a supervisor
or boss based on the employee's submission lo or rejection of sexual advances.
Hi) Submission to a sexual advance used as a condition of keeping or getting a job. whether expressed in explicit or implicit' terms
(d)	Reporting Procedure
Any employee who feels subject to discrimination or harassment or unsafe conduct should immediatefy report it to any of the following individuals: tie immediate supervisor, the Plant Manager or an officer of Ute Company, or the Plan! Human Resources Manager. The employee may also report any alleged discrimination or harassment or unsafe conduct to their Union representative. Such reports will be investigated promptly If the report has merit, disciplinary action will be taken against the offender. Depending on the severity of the misconduct, the disciplinary
12-
action could range from a warning to termination.
ARTICLE 8 HOURS OF WORK
8.01	(a) Nothing contained in this Agreement in
general or in this article in particular, can be construed to indicate that the Company guarantees hours of work per day or days of work per week.
(b)	Employees that work a forty (40) hour week wit work five (5) eight (8) hour shifts a week.
(c)	The shift rotation of employees that are to work twelve (12) hour shifts is set out in Appendix ‘D".
(d)	Employees shall work either a forty (40} nour week or the twelve (12) hour shift relation as directed by the employer.
8.02	The Company will advise the President or VicePresident tri the Union of changes in hours of work and shifts when possible 72 hours but not less than 48 hours before making them effective.
8.03	(a) Employees mat work eight (8) heirs shifts ' wflt be allowed a twenty (20) minute eating
period and a ten (10) minute eating period. These eating periods will be scheduled so as to maintain production and at a time mutually convenient to the company and employee.
No employee will be required !o work longer than five ($) consecutive hours without receiving the aforementioned eating periods.
{b) Employees on twelve (12) hour shifts wlR be allowed two (2) twenty minute eating periods and two (2) ten (10} minute eating periods.
ARTICLE 9 OVERTIME RATES & PREMIUM COMPENSATION
9.01	(a) Overtime rates shall be paid only to
employees who am working additional hours at the request of the Company and shall not be paid for such extra hours which have been exchanged at the request of employees for their own convenience.
(b)	Overtime work shall be divided as equitably as possible among all employees capable of performing the work at the rale the job entails, starling first with the employee currently performing the job.
(c)	An employee may be excused from working overtime provided mother qualified employee is available to do the work required.
(d)	There will be no pyramiding of overtime pay, or any other add-on or premium rate of pay.
9 02 (a) Employees that work forty (40) hours per week on a five (5) day schedule win be paid
for ail work in excess of forty (40) hours a week at time and one-half (1)4).
(b)	Regular hours worked during a regularly scheduled week wfll be paid at the classified rate.
(c)	'Employee's on twelve (12) hour shifts will have their hours of work averaged over successive two (2) week periods for the purpose of calculating overtime. Any hours worked in excess of eighty-four (84) hours in a two (2) week period will be paid at time and one-half (1 Vi). The union will support the employer in any effort to obtain an approval from die Ontario Ministry of Labour to average home in accordance with this Article’.
(d)	Employees working on a five (5) day schedule or on non-rotating shifts wW be paid overtime compensation at two (2) times their classified rata of pay when they are requested to work between midnight Saturday and midnight Sunday, provided the employee has worked at least forty (40) hours Airing the preceding five (5) work days in the work week.
(e)	An employee who is required to work weekend overtime and who returns to work before eight (8) hours off wifi receive two (2) hours of additional pay at their classified rate provided the employee completes both shifts.
-15-
9.03	it is agreed that when the Company requires a rotating shift employee to change his shift at other than the scheduled rotation time, with less than 16 hours elapsed time between his norma* quitting time, and the beginning of his new schedule he will be paid time and one-haft Ns classified rate (or all hours worked on the first shift of the new schedule.
9.04	It is agreed that an allowance of $10.00 will be given to each employee, when called in to work few non-scheduled overtime, and who lives over ten (10) miles from the plant.
9.05	Employees working on the second shift wii be
paid the following shift premium effective with the first payroll period on or after November 2, 2001	$0.40/hour
9.06	Employees working on the Ihinj shift will be paki the following shift premium effective with the first payroll period on or after November 2, 2001	$3.61/hour
Twelve (12) hour shift employees working on the night shift wifi be paid the following shift premium:
November 2, 2001	$.061Mour
• 16-
9.07	Ail employees reporting tor scheduled work unless a contrary order from the foreman has been given will receive three (3) hours pay at his classified rate, provided that the causes for no work being available are within the company's control. It is understood dm the employee may be supplied with attemate work provided the employee has no job related limitations and is quanted to perform toe work that is provided "
9 08 H is agreed that toe Company has the nght to assign or transfer employees as needed. When making assignments or transfers the employer win determine the shift and classification from which toe employee will be transferred.
(a)	If toe assignment will be made to a higher rated classification, the most senior employee on shift in the selected classification win be transferred provided the employee has the skill and ability to perform toe work. The transferred employee wtt then be pad the higher rate whan occupying toe higher rated job.
(b)	It the assignment wift be made to a tower rated classification, the most junior employee on shift in the selected classification will be transferred provided the employee has toe skiff and ability to perform toe work, ft is agreed that since toe transferred employee is being assigned at the convenience of the Company, he wi be paid his normal classification rate. This article does not apply
when the employee is transferred due to a reduction of the workforce or inability to perform the work.
9.09	!n Ihe event an employee is displaced from his regular job as a result of automation, he will be transferred in accordance with Article 15.
9.10	in the event of a death of a member of an
employee's family, the Company will grant upon request a leave of absence for a reasonable time for the purpose of making funeral arrangements or attending the funeral and will pay for such lost time as follows:
(a)	Spouse, common-law spouse, child or stepchild, Father, mother, parent-in-law, brother, sister, grandchild or grandparent, up to a maximum of four (4) days.
(b)	Brothers and sisters of the spouse or common-law spouse, the day of the funeral.
(c)	These allowances wilt only be granted where circumstances require the employee’s absence from work
(d)	‘Employees lhat work twetve (12) hour shifts will be entitled to forty-eight (43) hours' pay K they are granted four (4) days* bereavement leave, and twetve (12) hours' pay if they are granted one (1) day's bereavement leave. However, such employees will only be
-18-
granted consecutive work days as bereavement leave’.
9.11	An employee who Is required to serve on a jury, snail be paid the difference between the amount paid for such service and his current hourly rate for the time lost from his regularly scheduled work shift by reason of such service subject to the following provisions:
(a)	Employees must notify their supervisor within twenty-four (24) hours after receipt of notice of selection for jury duty
(b)	Any employee called for jury duty, and who is temporarily excused from attendance at court must report for work if four (4) hours or more of time remains to be worked in his shift. For employees on 12-hour shift, where it reads four (4), change to six (6).
(c)	Employees selected for jury duty who are cn other than the day shift shad be assigned to the day shift for those days they are required to serve as jurors.
(d)	In order lo be eligible for such payments, the employees must furnish a written statement from the appropriate public official showing the date and time served and the amount of pay received.
19-
9.12	The Company agrees to give a meal allowance of $11.00 to employees who are required to work two (2) hours past their normal quitting time, and to employees called in at least two (2) hours prior to their norma) starting time, unless they are given lime off to go home for a meal, or were notified on the previous day that such overtime or cal) in was scheduled.
9.13	When a paid holiday recognized by this
Agreement occurs on an employee's scheduled work day during the employee's scheduled work week, the number of paid holiday hours for that holiday shall be considered as hours worked for the purposes of computing overtime. When an employee is pre-approved to take time off on a scheduled work day. the time the employee would have been scheduled to work will be considered for the purpose of determining the employee's overtime entitlement
ARTICLE 10 VACATIONS
10.01	The vacation period is from January 1st through December 31st.
10.02	Employees are required to have vacation requests submitted by March 1*'. Any unscheduled vacation requests submitted thereafter will be taken from the weeks available.
•20.
10.03	Employees must lake their vacation time
during the calendar year in which they become etigitrie for such vacation, and cannot carry over any such eligible vacation time unless otherwise required by law. Vacation periods cannot be accumulated.
10.04	Alter fre posting of the vacation schedule no change wtH be considered unless the request by the employee is made twenty-one (31) days in advance of the proposed new dales and than only if arrangements can be made with other employees.
10.05	Additional time off requested will be treated as a requested leave of absence and will be granted by the Human Resource Manager only if satisfactory arrangements can be made with the employee's immediate supervisor and if granted will be without pay. All such requests will be submitted and replied to on the form provided.
10.06	Employees with the most plant seniority in the department concerned will be given test consideration in the allotment of time for vacations. The Department Head wit! arrange the times o! vacation as is most convenient for the employees and the Company; the Company wiR consider dial employees prefer vacations in July and August, but operations cannot be interfered with because of vacation
-21-
preferences. Eligible employees who request more then lwo (2) consecutive week's vacation wifi be granted their requests provided the production will not be unduly affected.
10.07	When a paid recognized holiday tails within an employee's vacation it will be paid for In accordance with section 11.02, in addition to his vacation pay but extra time off will be allowed only ff requested prior to employees proceeding on vacation and wiU be without pay. Permission will not be unreasonably withheld.
10.08	Employees win receive payment for vacation at the time vacation is taken.
10.09	(a) Length of vacation is established by die plant seniority of the employee concerned as of January 1 each calendar year and will be granted as follows:
i) More than one (1} year but less than three (3) years' plant seniority ti) Three years or more plant seniority
iii)	Eight years or more plant seniority
iv)	Sixteen years or more plant seniority
Two weeks Throe weeks . Four weeks Five weeks*
" Employees who, as of the effective date of this Agreement, are receiving more than 5 weeks vacation benefit wilt be red circled, and will not receive a reduction in vacation benefits.
-22-
(b)	New employees wiH earn on* (1) vacation day tor each completed month of service to a maximum of ten (10) vacation days, but will only be entitled to take such leave once they have compieled one (1) year of service.
(c)	One week = 40 hours of vacation entitlement to start following days of rest.
10.10	Vacation pay will be calculated as a
percentage ot the gross wages earned during the preceding calendar year (including vacation pay) as follows;
Two weeks	4%
Three weeks	6%
Four weeks	8%
Five weeks	10%*
Vacation calculation will be paid as follows:
Total vacation pay owing wiH be divided by total vacation hours entitlement to arrive at an hourly rate of pay. The hourly rate of pay calculated will be used when employees take their vacation.
* Employees who, as of Ihe effective date of this Agreement, ere receiving vacation pay calculated on a percentage greater than 10% will be red circled, and wilt not receive a reduction in the percentage used to calculate vacation pay under this section.
23-
10.11	Employees will bo paid all outstanding
vacation pay in accordance with the Ontario employment Stanfords Act upon separation from employment.
10 12	(a) In the event of a shutdown of the plant or a
department, all employees, unless otherwise notified, must take their vacations during this period. The Company shell not be unreasonable in providing advance notice of shutdown.
lb) The Company will post the employees vacation schedule noi later than April 1st of the vacation year.
ARTICLE 11 RECOGNIZED HOLIDAYS
11.01	The Company shall post the holiday dates no laierthan April 1st.
11.02	The Company recognizes the following Holidays as holidays with pay and each employee shall receive eight (6) hours at his classified rate subject to the conditions outlined in Section 11.03:
New Year's Day Family Day Good Friday Victoria Day Canada Day
- 24 -
Civic Day Labour Oay Thanksgiving Day Christmas Day Boxing Day
1 Floater, scheduled as approved by the Company
11.03	To be eligible lor holiday pay as authorized in
Section 11.02 above, the employee;
(a)	must complete his probationary period to be eligible tor the floating hotitfay or the Civic Holiday.
(b)	Each employee will receive a regular day's pay provided he has worked on die last scheduled working day prior to the holiday and the first scheduled working day after the holiday. This requirement shal not operate to deprive the employee of payment for (he holidays if he is absent because of illness, the illness being certified by a doctor.
11.04	Employees who have worked on a recognized holiday may request an alternate day off without pay. Employees shall be entitled to postpone the taking of this day off with other such days, which the employee may then take off together without pay, at a lime mutually convenient to the employee and the Company. Such days off must be taken within six months of the holiday, or else they wall be lost.
-25*
11.05	For 12 hour shift employees, unless otherwise
required by law'.
(a)	recognized holidays are tom 8:00 a.m of the day set to 8:00 s.m. of the following day;
(b)	When the plant is running on a holiday.
0) Eligible employees that are not
scheduled lo work wffl receive eight (6) hours holiday pay, and (8) Eligible employees that work the holiday will receive twelve (12) hours holiday pay. and will be paid time 8nd a half for all hours worked.
(c)	When the plant is not running on a holiday,
(i)	Eligible employees that would not have been scheduled to work will receive eight (6) hours holiday pay, and
(ii)	EHgibte employees that would otherwise have been scheduled to work will receive twelve (12) hours holiday pay.
11.06	Employees on leave of absence due to
certified illness wiR be pad in accordance with the Benefits provided by Ihe Temporary Disability Plan.
-26-
ARTICLE 12 CLASSIFICATIONS AND RATES
12.01	The dasstfications and rates of pay set out in Appendix ‘A" will remain in effect for the term of this collective agreement.
12.02	If a job is substantially changed or 3 new job created the evaluation of such Jobs wM be made Jointly by the Company and the Union within three months of die job being fled. The rate of pay negotiated shall be retroactive to the date of establishment of the changed or new job. win be incorporated in this Agreement, and w*tf be binding upon both parties.
12.03	Learner - is any employee who is being trained for any position who has not had pertinent experience in the particular job Involved. In such cases, (earners in the warehouses person or general labour classifications will be paid $0.15 per hour less for three (3) months and learners in all other classifications will be paid SO. 15 per hour less for the first three (3) months and $0.10 per hour less ter the seoond three (3) months, below the Job rate of the position ter which he is being trained for
ARTICLE 13 SENIORITY
13.01 A person will not acquire seniority until he has completed his probationary period.
13.02 Upon completion of the probationary period, a person's seniority sha# be accumulated from his dale of hiring.
13.03	Seniority shall be accumulated on a plant basis.
13.0< Seniority and empioymer.t shall terminate for any one of the following reasons:
(a)	ft an employee voluntarily quits, or is discharged for just cause.
(b)	If ah employee fails to report to woric following the termination of an authorized leave of absence, unless granted further leave of absence by the Company, or unless tee employee can give a valid reason, acceptable to the Company, which acceptance shaH not be unreasonably withheld, for not reporting tor work on tee specified day.
(c> If an employee on iay-off fails to report for recall within five days of being notified by courier or registered mail to report.
-28-
(d)	If an employee with five (5) or less years of service is laid off for twelve (12) months or rf an employee with more than five (5) years of service is laid off for twenty-four (24) months.
(e)	If an employee is absent without notice for three (3) or more consecutive days.
(f)	if the employee has been absent from work for any reason other than layoff for twenty* four (24) months, unless the employee can provide a medical certification that establishes the employee is likely to return to the employee's regular duties within a reasonable period.
13.05 Any person whose seniority has been broken sftal upon being rehired be considered a new
employee.
13.06	For the purposes of this article and article 14.
the plant will be considered as having the following departments:
Maintenance
Production
•29-
ARTICLE 14 PROMOTIONS
14.01	(a) Appointments to staff positions are not
subject to this Agreement and an employee so appointed shall be excluded from the coverage of this Agreement but will retain his seniority for nine (9) months after such appointment.
(b)	A person returned by management to the bargaining unit within this nine (9) month period will be returned to his former job without loss of seniority.
(c)	With respect to temporary assignments to staff positions outside ihe bargaining unit, made at the discretion of the Company, the employee shall continue to accumulate seniority. An employee so assigned will be paid $1.00 per hour minimum above his classified rate. The Company will inform the Union of the rats of pay. Upon termination of the temporary assignment the employee shall be returned to his former position.
14.02	An employee may return or be returned to his former job according to Section 16.06 (a).
-30-
ARTICLE 15 LAY-OFFS
15.01	Lay-off means a reduction in the workforce by the employer.
15.02	The employer will implement the following procedure when laying off bargaining unit employees:
(a)	Employees in the affected classifications will be laid off in order of seniority: following which,
fb) Employees laid off from their classifications will be entitled to bump a less senior employee provided the employee has the skill and ability to perform the work.
(c) When the employer implements a layoff, an employee may volunteer to be laid off, in which case the employer may accept or reject the employee's offer in the employer's sole discretion.
15.03	In the case of individual lay-off die Company will give a minimum of forty (40) working hours notice which includes the day of notification, in advance of the effective date, except when the lay-off is due to fire, storm, floods, power or major mechanical failures.
-31 •
1 S.04 In the event that a lay-off affects employees in receipt of worker's compensation (W.S.I.8.) or on leave of absence, such employees will be notified by courier or registered mail that they have been laid off.
15.05	Following a lay-off: the hiring of former
employees who sliil retain their seniority will be in the reverse order of their having been laid off: subject to their ability to do the work required.
15.06	Any Bargaining Committee member is not to be excluded from performing hrs or her duties pertaining to the Union by reason of lay-off: if the lay-off is less than ninety (90) consecutive working days and provided the person is not working elsewhere. The President of the Local Union shall have one (1) day more seniority than the most junior employee to be laid-off.
ARTICLE 16 JOB POSTING
16.01	(a) Job vacancies or newly created jobs that are within the bargaining unit and that will ba of more than six (6) month's duration, will be posted immediately for six (6) calendar days on the notice board. Whenever the Company implements a shift change involving the creation of additional shifts, the Company wlit post job vacancies resulting from such shift change. Employees absent from work
-32-
during the posting period will be required to notify the Company, in writing, of their interest in any job posting.
(b)	This section shall not be applied for more than two subsequent moves required as a result of the selection of an applicant.
(c)	Temporary vacancies occurring due to customer demand and/or vacation replacement of absent employees will not be posted. The Company may hire and use relief employees during the period April 1 through October 10, who shall not acquire or accumulate seniority, and no relief employees shall remain as a relief employee after October 10.
Should any of the relief employees be hired as a regular employee on a full time basis, the actual time worked as a relief employee shall be credited, if necessary, towards tile completion of their probationary period.
Relief employees wiH be laid off prior to probationary employees.
d) The employer will post temporary vacancies resulting from disability or personal leaves of absence that the employer knows will last for at least three (3) months. The employee that fills the temporary vacancy will return to his previous job when the incumbent returns to work. It the incumbent advises 1he employer that he will nek be returning to work the
-33-
position will ae posted as a permanent vacancy.
16.02	All applicants for the posted jobs, provided
their applications are received by the Company within the stipulated six (6) calendar days, will be advised and the unsuccessful applicants informed why their applications were not accepted.
16.03	The Company has the right to fill any vacancy if no applications are received from qualified employees.
16.04	All jobs posted will state the job to be filled, a brief description of the job, the qualifications required and the rate of pay.
16.05	Ability and seniority shall be the factors
considered in determining the most statable applicant. Seniority shall be the determining factor in selection of the applicant If the ability of two or more employees is relatively equal.
Evaluations of Operator 'B'(s) to qualify for Operator A’ will be conducted twice annually.
-34-
16.06	(a) If the job proves unsatisfactory to the
selected applicant within thirty (30) days, or if the applicant proves unsatisfactory to the Company within six (6) months, he may return or be returned to his original job without loss of any seniority. The employee may not apply to'the same position dunng the next eighteen-! 1B) months.
(b)	Anyone else affected by (a) will be returned to his original job.
(c)	Should the applicant return to Ns previous job, within thirty (30) days of posting, other applicants from the same posting may be considered and appointed.
16.07	Successful applicants on job postings shall be ineligible for a minimum of six (6) months to apply for open positions that are at the same or lower classification than their newly awarded position.
16.08	Promotion means a transfer to a job
classification, which carries a higher rate of pay or higher wage range.
-35-
ARTICLE 17 GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
17.01 Nothing in this Agreement shall be deemed to take away the right of any employee to discuss any cf his personal grievances with a representative of the Company.
17.02	If any differences concerning the inteipretalion, application, operation, or any alleged violation of the express provisions of this Agreement arises or any questions as to whether any difference is arbitrable arises between the parties or parsons bound by this Agreement or on whose behalf it was entered into, the representatives of the Company and of the Union shall meet and endeavour to resolve the difference in the following manner and sequence. Union grievance committee members will be paid straight time wages white in attendance at scheduled grievance meetings.
Step I Discussion shall take place between the grievor, who shaM be accompanied by his steward and his immediate supervisor.
Step 2 Discussions between the grievor, his Union Steward, Chief Steward, his immediate supervisor, and the Human Resource Manager or their designees. The grievance at this stage shall be submitted in writing, signed by the grievor, and an executive of the Union wittiin seven (7) calendar days of
-36-
the date of the occurrence which gave rise to the grievance, and must state the matter at issue, the facts relied upon, including events, dates and persons involved, and precisely in what respect the Agreement has allegedly been violated or misinterpreted by reference to the specific clause or clauses retied upon. The notice shall also state the nature of relief or remedy sought. The Company shall Issue a written reply at this step.
Step 3 Discussion between the Union Grievance Committee, Production Manager, Assistant Production Manager, the Human Resource Manager, and the Ptant Manager, or their designees, shall be held within four (4) calendar days, excluding statutory holidays and the weekend days of Saturday and Sunday, of the step 2 written reply.
A representative Of the United Steelworkers may attend. The grievor may attend on the invitation of either party.
Should a grievance be initiated by either the Company or the Union with respect to the application or interpretation of this Agreement, the procedure wilt start at this step.
The Plant Manager shall issue to the President of the Union a written reply to the formal written grievance within forty-eight (48) hours of the discussion held in Step 3.
-37-
For any of the above Steps, after the grievance has been initiated, the time element may be waived by mutual agreement of both parties. Agreement to waive must be in writing and signed byjboth parties.	””
17.03	(a) The authority of the Arbitrator is limited to the interpretation of the express provisions of this Agreement end the arbitrator cannot amend, delete, or add any dauee to foe express Agreement as signed, or substitute the Arbitrator's judgment for that of foe Company, or overrule a decision of the Company unless the Company's judgment or detision is contrary to foe express provisions of this Agreement. The Union acknowledges that the Company retains afl rights not otherwise abrogated under foe express terms of this Agreement as generalized in foe Martagement'Rights Clause, subsection 3.01. if the grievance concerns these rights which are not otherwise limited by foe express terms of this Agreement, the grievance shati not be arbitrable, unless otherwise required by sub section (12) 0) oi the Ontario Labour Relations Act.
(b) Where a difference arises between the parties relating to the interpretation, application or administration of the express provisions of this Agreement including any question as to whether a matter is arbitrable, or where an allegation is made font the express terms of this Agreement has been
-3d*
violated, either of the parties may, within 25 days from the date of the Step 3 written repty. notify the other parly in writing of 'is desire to submit the difference or aflegatton to arbitration. A single arbitrator wiB be selected in rotation from (he following arbitrators: Martin Teplitsky, Mary Lou Tims. Greg Brandt and Gail Brent, within thirty (30) days of notification of the intent to arbitrate.
if the arbitrator so selected cannot hear the case, within sixty (60) calendar days the parties may select the next arbitrator on the (tot and if toat arbitrator cannot hear the case, within the sixty (60) calendar days continue through the list of arbitrators, in the same manner, in the event none of the arbitrators on the list can hear the case, or the parties cannot agree on a list of arbitrators, the parties will attempt to agree on a single arbitrator to hear the case.
The Arbitrator shall hear and determine the difference or ad legation and shall issue a decision and the decision shall be final and binding upon the parties and upon alt employees affected by it.
Any grievance referred to arbitration more man twenty-five (25) calendar days after toe Step 3 written reply shall be deemed inerrable. However, the parties may agree to extend this twenty-five (25) calendar day deadline, but must do so by written agreement
-39-
(c)	No person shall be selected as an arbitrator who has been directly involved in attempts to negotiate or settle the grievance.
(d)	In determining any grievance arising out of a claim of discharge or suspension, the Arbitrator may. notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein contained, dispose of the grievance by affirming the Company's actions and dismissing the grievance, by setting aside the disciplinary action imposed and restoring the grievor to his former position with or without compensation, or by substituting a lesser penalty for the discharge or suspension.
(e)	Either party may proceed through the expedited arbitration process of the Ontario Labour Relations Act. (currently Section 49).
17.04 The Union and the Company shall each pay one half of the remuneration and expenses of the Arbitrator, and any other expenses that have been mutually agreed may be incurred by the Arbitrator to assist in arriving at a decision. Any other expenses shall be borne by the Party which incurs them.
17.05	The Company shall have the right to make, change and enforce work rules. A violation of the Company's work rules shall be grounds lor discipline, up to and including discharge. The Grievance procedure may be Invoked if a
-40-
person believes he has been unjustly disciplined, discharged, or suspended.
17.06	The manner In which any grievance is settled will never be construed as establishing a policy for either the Company or the Union.
17.07	It Is understood that the Company's
representatives may call a special meeting of the Union Grievance Committee to present any complaint or grievance with respect to the conduct of the Union, its officers, committeemen. or with respect to the conduct of the employees generally or individually and that if such complain! or grievance is not settled to ttie mutual satisfaction of the conferring parties, it may be referred to arbitration in the same way as a grievance by any employee. It is understood that the Company will give She Union three working days notice of such a meeting.
Any grievance not processed in conformity with this Article 17 shall be deemed to be abandoned and all rights of recourse shall be at an end. However, changes may be made in Section 17.02 by mutual agreement between the parties.
-41 -
ARTICLE 1ft UNION COMMITTEE
18.01	(a) The company wifi recognize a Union Grievance Committee of not more than three (3) employee* who will be known as Union Officers or Stewards elected or appointed by tee Union. H Is understood teat Ml employees serving on this Committee will, as far as t$ practical, have one or more years plant seniority.
(b) H is understood the Union Stewards and other Union Officers will not absent themselves from their regular duties unreasonably In order to deal with the grievances of employees or with other Union business, and will at Mi times obtain permission from their immediate supervisors before leaving their place of work. Permission will not be unreasonably withheld
18.02	The Company wil recognize a Union
Negotiating Comm&tee composed of not more tear five employees. The Committee wi8 meet with representatives of the Company during tee second week of each mcmth.
18.03	The Union wtft advise the Company in writing erf the names of all Union Officers and Stewards.
16.04	Employees elected or appointed by Ihe Union !o serve on (hose Committees with the exception of the Union President, shall where possible work in a different section or shift of the plant.
In the evert two or more employees are elected while on the same shift in the same section then such employees wBl be assigned to different shifts, wherever practical.
For purpose of this Article, Sections of the Plant are as follows;
Maintenance
Services
Production
ARTICLE 19 HEALTH AND SAFETY
19.01	The company and unfon agree to set up d Joint Health and Safety Committee of lour (4) members including the Plant Manager, or his designate, and a member of the Executive Committee. The company and union wiH each select two (2) members of the Committee.
Each member of the Committee shall serve on the Committee for the duration of the cofiedive agreement
19.02	Employees win immediately report any unsafe conditions and/or injuries to their foreman in
-43-
the presence of a witness. W a safety hazard cannot be immediately corrected, the foreman wtU submit the necessary work order. The Joint Health and Safety Committee wM review any outstanding work orders at Ms next monthly meeting and recommend their disposition to management.
19.03	Any situation or conditions reported to be
unsafe shall be deaJt wrth by the Joint Health and Safety Committee at the Joint Health and Safety Committee meetings if not rectified before that date.
19.04	It is agreed that the Union may make
recommendations through their representatives on die Joint Health and Safety Committee regarding the health and safety of the employees
19.05	in accordance with prevailing plant policy and st no cost to the employee, the Company shall provide safety devices and other equipment necessary to protect the employees’ health and safety while at work.
19.06	A representative of toe Union of the Joint Health and Safety Committee shall be permitted to accompany toe government factory Inspector on ail hts tours of the Plant
•44-
19.07	Employees must comply with any and all health, safety and environmental rules throughout the plant at all time.
ARTICLE 20 NOTICE BOARDS
20.01	The Company win provide for a bulletin board in the maintenance department, production department and the employee entrance.
The Union will not post any notice or circular on these boards until It has been approved by die Rant Manager or Ms authorized representative.
ARTICLE 21 LEAVE OF ABSENCE
21.01	Seniority shall accumulate when an employee is absent by reason of Mness. occupational or non-occupahonal accident for 12 months if he has less than 3 years of plant seniority, for 18 months if he has 3 but (ess than 9 years plant seniority and for 24 months if he has 8 or more years of plant seniority.
21.02	(a) An employee may request a leave of
absence, without pay, for personal reasons, which request is subject to written approval by the Company, and the granting or denial of a leave of absence is without precedent or prejudice.
♦45-
(b) 11 an employee requests and * granted a leave of absence tor up to three (3) months, on Ns return he win be reinstated in his former position.
21.03	Employees wiH have the right to request leave
of absence without pay to attend to Union business. Up to five (5) employees, but not more then one (1) from a department, and no more than one per shift and one per classification in the Production department with the exception of the Union President may make such request for each function and such absence will not exceed two weeks duration. Not more than three of such requests need be granted during an agreement year. Seniority shall accumulate during such absence.
ARTICLE 22 OURATION OF AGREEMENT
22.01 (a) This Agreement is effective from November 1.2011 to October 31.2016, and thereafter from year to year unless written notice is given by either party not more than 90 days prior to October 31, 2016. if they desire to negotiate a new agreement.
(b) Appendix 'A' wil become effective upon ratification of this agreement.
Signed this 8* day of December, 2011.
-46-
ON BEHALF OF:
KP Bulking Products
UNITED
steelworkers
Local 6034.
Qannla Wifiamson Union Negotiator

Brenda MacDonald HR Manager
Don Weaver President Local 603L
^ Jamte Campbell "Recording Secretary
rfoetc/
ToddWaj^rd Financial Secretary
- 47 -
Appendix “A"
Classifications
Machinist A Machinist 8 Electrician MiHwrighlA MifiwnghtB QC Inspector
Operator A or Compounder Operator B or G order SWppIngfReeeiving Lead Hand Online Pecker General Labour Warehouse Person Relief
Rate Upon Ratification
$28.53
19 95
28.53
27.48
19.95
19.34
19.34
18.54
18.21
15.50
14.50
14.00
75% of rate
Language changes though out Contract
Probation
Rata
Less $0.20
Less $0.20
Less $0.20
Less 30.20
Less $0-20
Less $0.55
Less $0 55
Less $0.55
Lees $0 56
Less $0.55
Less $0.55
Less $0.55
-46
B1, Employees appointed by the Company to the position of teed Hand shaft be paid a minimum premium, based on the following schedule, effective with the first payroll penod on or after:
November 1. 2000	$1.00/hour
B2. Employees hired as 'Relief Employees" may be hired at a rate which is not lees than 75% of tire applicable job rate and the relief employees shall be advanced to a rate which is not te$s than 85% of the applicable job rate m the second year of their return employment, and to the applicable job rate not later than the third year of their return employment, and to provide further that relief employees shall not be entitled to receive any of the fringe benefits available to employees under the terms of this Agreement.
B3 Employees classified as Electrician. Machinist "A, or Millwright ’A’ must possess a valid certificate of qualification for their respective trade.
Effective the first pay period following the ratification, the above rates of pay will be increased by 2%.
Effective the first pay period following November 1
2012.	the above rates of pay wifi be increased by a further 2%.
Effective the first pay period following November 1
2013,	the above rates of pay wMi be increased by a further 2.25%.
■ 49-
Effective the first pay period following November f
2014,	the above rates of pay wiN be increased by a further 2%.
Effective the first pay period following November 1
2015.	the above rates of pay wU be Increased by a further 2%.
-60-
Appendix “B* - Summary of Benefits
As of toe dale this collective agreement is ratified, the benefit plan in effect under the preceding collective agreement win be replaced with the KP Milton Sasic Coverage plan presented to the union on December 8. 2011. Premium cost sharing under the new plan will be as foBows:
•	Basic We:
•	Optional life:
•	AO&D:
•	STO:
•	LTD:
•	Healthcare:
•	Dental:
100% employer funded
100% employee paid
100% employee paid
100% employer paid
100% employee paid
80% employer and 20% employee
80% employer and 20% employee
Premium costs are subject to change by the insurer
-51-
Appendix "C" - Severance Language
In the event of a partial or total closure of the Acton Plant resulting in permanent layoffs, employees affected will be entitled to a severance payment equal to one week per completed year of service up to a maximum of 26 weeks
Employees entitled lo severance pay under this section shall have the option to terminate their employment and recall rights and accept severance pay either (a) at the time of layoff or b) at the point seniority retendon expires.
This severance payment includes any and all monies owed lo the employee as per the Employment Standards Ad or any other requirement at law.
-52-
Letter of Understanding - Online Packer
General Labour, and Warehouse Person
The lour employees that were on lay off on February 27. 2009 and were subsequently recalled to the Online Packer or General Labour classification will have their rates of pay adjusted to the 'Rate Upon Ratification' rate that applied to their classification under the preceding collective agreement. This adjustment will become effective once the current collective agreement is ratified. These employees will also be entitled to receive the general wage increases applicable to other bargaining unit employees.
Employees in the Online Packer, General Labour, and Warehouse Person Classifications that had their wages red circled under the preceding collective agreement will also be entitled to receive the general wage increases applicable to other bargaining unit employees.
-S3-
Letter of Under*tending -
Articles 7:04(b) and 13:04 (f)
Du mg negotiations for the current collective agreement the parties inserted articles 7:04 (b) and 13:04 (f). The addition of these articles will not affect the employees that were on LTD on December 8,2011.
•54-
ss-
Appendix “0” - Schedule for Shift Rotation
	S	M	T	W	T	F	s	S	M	T	w	T	F	s
Week One & Two - Days	2	3	3	2	2	3	3	3	1	1	3	3	1	1
Weak One & Two - Nights	1	4	4	1	1	4	4	4	2	2	4	4	2	2
Week Three & Four - Nights	1	4	4	1	1	4	4	4	2	2	4	4	2	2
Week Three & Four - Nights	2	3	3	2	2	3	3	3	1	1	3	3	1	?