Collective Agreement
Between
Waltec Plastics Inc.
and
Unite Ontario Council Local 1476
Begins:
09/20/2000
Terminates:
09/19/2003
00762(08)
Source: co Employees: 270 Received by: df Date: 12/24/2000
WALTEC PLASTICS INC. TABLE OF CONTENTS
ARTICLE I • GENERAL PURPOSE...............
\
ARTICLE 2 -RECOGNITION AND COVERAGE.......
ARTICLE 3 -MANAGEMENTRIGHTS...............
ARTICLE 4 - UNION SECURITY AND CHECK-OFF..
ARTICLE 5 ■ DISCRIMINATION AND INTIMIDATION,.
ARTICLE 6 ■ UNION REPRESENTATION..........
ARTICLE 7 • GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE...........
ARTICLE 8 - ARBITRATION...................
ARTICLE 9-DISCHARGE.............'.........
ARTICLE 10 - STRIKES. LOCKOUTS AND SLOWDOWNS.
ARTICLE 11 - SENIORITY....................
ARTICLE 12 -TRANSFERS AND JOB POSTINGS....
ARTICLE 13 ■ LAYOFFS AND RECALLS..........
ARTICLE 14 - LEAVE OF ABSENCE.............
ARTICLE 15 - NOTICES AND ANNOUNCEMENTS....
ARTICLE 16- REPORTING ALLOWANCE...........
ARTICLE 17 -TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE..........
ARTICLE 18 - COMPANY RECOGNIZED HOLIDAYS..
ARTICLE 19 - VACATIONS WITH PAY...................38
ARTICLE 20-WAGES..................................41
ARTICLE 21 - HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME...........44
ARTICLE 22 - EMPLOYEE BENEFITS....................53
ARTICLE 23 - SAFETY AND HEALTH....................57
ARTICLE 24 - NOTIFICATION.........................58
ARTICLE 25 -DURATION AND TERMINATION.............^59
WAGE APPENDIX...................................
APPENDIX "A" WAGE SCHEDULE........................63
APPENDIX "B" WAGE SCHEDULE........................66
APPENDIX "C" WAGE SCHEDULE........................69
APPENDIX "C" LETTER OF INTENT.....................73
APPENDIX "D" INJECTIONDEPARTMENT-WEEKEND SHIFTS...74
REQUESTS FOR VACATION.............................77
AGREEMENT ON POLICY...............................77
LETTER OF AGREEMENT...............................78
THIS AGREEMENT entered into at Midland, Ontario, as of the 20th day of September,2000.
BY AND BETWEEN:
WALTEC PLASTICS INC.
located in Midland, Ontario (hereinafter referred to as "the Company")
AND:
UNITE Ontario Council LOCAL 1476
(hereinafter referred to as "the Union")
ARTICLE 1 - GENERAL PURPOSE
1.01	It is the intent and purpose of this Agreement to assure sound and mutually beneficial industrial and economic relationships between parties hereto, to provide an orderly and peaceful means of conducting negotiations and resolving any misunderstanding or grievances, and to set forth herein the basic and full agreement between the parties covering rates of pay, wages, hours of work and other conditions of employment.
1.02	The parties agree that neither employees nor employer should endeavour to limit the production of an individual, and that only in
l
the progressively more profitable operation of the Company can the employees basically secure greater earnings and security.
1,03	The parties agree that the above objectives can be better achieved by compliance at all times with the terms and conditions of this Agreement and by the prompt and equitable disposition of grievances.
ARTICLE 2- )GNITI( AND <
2.01	The Company recognizes the Union during the terms of this Agreement as the sole collective bargaining agent for all employees of Waltec Plastics Inc,,-Midland, Ontario, save and except supervisors, persons above the rank of supervisor, office and sales staff, security guards, students employed during the school year for not more than twenty (20) hours a week, and homeworkers,
Work normally performed by Bargaining Unit employees shall not be done by employees outside the Bargaining Unit, except for students as defined above.
2.02	The word "employee" or "employees" wherever used in this Agreement shall mean any or all of the employees in the Bargaining Unit as defined above except where the context otherwise provides.
2.03	Where the masculine pronoun is used herein, it shall mean and include the feminine pronoun where the context applies.
2
ARTICLE 3 - MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
3,01	The Union acknowledges that it is the exclusive function ofthe Company to manage the business and direct the working force, including but not limited to the following:
1(a) To maintain order and efficiency, and set quality standards, enforce and formulate reasonableplant rules and regulations, including fire and safety regulations,
(b)	To hire, layoff, classify,transfer, promote or discipline, suspend, discharge or demote forjust cause. Subject to the right of the employee to submit a grievance in the case of discipline, suspension or discharge.
(c)	To schedule and change hours of work, to determine and change work assignments, to decide employee qualifications, and to discontinuejobs.
(d)	To manage the industrial enterprises in which the Company is engaged, determining the products and materials to be handled, processed and manufactured, the methods of manufacturing, the schedules, extension and limitations of operations, the kinds, numbers and location of plants, machines and equipment to be used, the processes of manufacturing and the nature of its products.
(e)	The Union acknowledges that the Company has and shall retain the sole right and responsibility to subcontract work as long as the action of subcontractingdoes not mean that present employees will be laid off.
3
(I) The Company agrees that the above functions will be
exercised in a manner consistent with the provisions of the Agreement and the Collective Bargaining Rights of the Union.
ARTICLE 4 - UNION SECURITY > ( E(
4,01	All new employees shall, as a condition of employment, pay a Local Union initiation fee. This initiation fee shall be the first two hours pay of the new employee and shall be remitted to the Financial Secretary of the Local.
An employee who has been rehired shall not be required to pay a new initiation fee unless he has been out of the employ of the Company for more than two (2) years.
All employees upon completion of their probationary period shall, as a condition of employment, pay union dues, or an amount equivalent to union dues, which will be the amount prescribed by the Constitution of the Union, the first such payments to be considered the International Union initiation fee.
These dues or the equivalent shall be deducted from the second pay period of each month and the amounts so deducted shall be remitted monthly by cheque to the Ontario Council, 15 Gervais Drive, Suite 700, Don Mills, Ontario, M3C 1Y8, whose receipt thereof shall be considered as a discharge to the Company for the amount so deducted.
4
4.02	Employees who are, or who during the term of this Agreement become members of the Union shall, as a condition of continued employment with the Company, remain members in good standing of the Union.
4.03	The Company will, at the time of making the original remittance to the Union, specify the employees' names, addresses and telephone numbers from whose pay such deductions were made. For subsequent remittance the Company will supply the Union with a statement showing the name of each permanent employee from whom no deduction was made and the reasons thereof.
4.04	The Union shall indemnify and save the Company harmless from any claims, suits,judgements, attachments, and from any form of liability as a result of such deductions.
ARTICLE S - DISCRIMINATION AND INTIMIDATION
5.01	It is agreed that there will be no discrimination, coercion or intimidation by the Company, the Management, the Union or its officers or members against any employee because of his activity, or lack of activity, membership or non membership in any political, labour or Union organization or because of race, creed, colour, age, sex, marital status, nationality, ancestry or place of origin.
5.02	It is further agreed that there shall be no solicitation of members, collection of dues or other Union activities on the premises of the Company except as permitted by this Agreement. It is understood that no meeting of the Union or its members shall be held on the premises of the Company, nor shall any of its activities be so held at any time without prior written approval of the Company.
5
5.03	The Union agrees that under no circumstanceswill contractual or supervisory maintenance personnel, to a maximum of four (4), or contractual security guards, to a maximum of four (4), be prevented firm having free and molested entrance to, and departure from the plant, for the purpose of performing their duties. The Company agrees that under no circumstances will the above-mentionedpersonnel perform production work.
5.04	It is further agreed that any employee who violates any of the provisions of this Article may be disciplined by the Company.
ARTICLE 6 • UNION REPRESENTATION
6.01	The Company recognizes the right of the Union to elect, appoint, or otherwise select a Bargaining Committee of not more than five (5) members of the local Union, who have at least one (I) year's service with the Company. This Committee will be the Bargaining Committee for negotiations.
The Union Executive will act as a Grievance Committee. A maximum of five (5) will act as a Grievance Committee.
6.02	The Union will elect or appoint and the Company will recognize the number of Shop Stewards from each of the following department groups as indicated:
(a)	Compression	- three (3)
(b)	Finishing	■ one (1) Per Shift
(c)	Injection	- three (3) Per Plant
(d)	Materials Handling	• one(l) Per Plant
6
•	one (1) • Heritage Plant - two (2) • Crown Plant
•	one (1)
In the event that a departure reduces the number of shifts worked, the departmental Union Steward of the shift eliminated will be considered as having the most seniority, subject to Article 13,05, while remaining in the department as a Union Steward (not to exceed the present elected term).
6.03	The Union shall notify the Company in writing of the names of the Union Stewards and the departments or group of departments each represents, and of any changes in the personnel of the Union Stewards before the Company shall be required to recognize them.
6.04	It is mutually agreed that the employees shall not be eligible to serve as Stewards until they have at least one (1) year's service with the Company. '
6.05	It is understood that Union Stewards have their regular work to perform on behalf of the Company, and if it is necessary to service a grievance during working hours they will not cease their work without obtaining permission of their supervisor. Such permission will not be unreasonably withheld. When resuming their regular work they will report to their supervisor.
6.06	The Grievance Committee and Union Stewards shall be allowed reasonable time offlo investigate grievances and to attend meetings with management, and shall be compensated for time spent during working hours at their straight time hourly rate. Any abuse of such privilege may be the subject of a grievance by the Company.
(e)	Plant Services
(f)	Quality Assurance
6.07	When an employee is disciplined the Union official present shall be a Steward in the department, if not available then a Steward of their choice or a member of Executive who are then present. The parties agree the provisions are directory. The Company agrees to advise its supervisors to comply with the provision.
ARTICLE 7 - GRIEVANCE CEDURE
7.01	Complaints and grievances shall be adjusted as quickly as possible. For purposes of this Article “working days” exclude Saturdays, Sundays and CoVnpany recognized holidays.
7.02	An employee who has a complaint or grievance shall present it to his supervisor within seven (7) working days of the date the employee was first aware or reasonably could have been aware of the occurrence. The supervisor must give the employee his decision within two (2) foil working days of receiving the employee’s complaint or grievance. The departmental Shop Steward may accompany the employee when presenting his complaint or grievance.
7.03	If the supervisor ‘ s answer given the employee in clause 7.02 was unsatisfactory, the grievance will be taken up in the following sequence and manner. Forms for this use are to be supplied by the Union and approved by the Company.
Step 1
The written grievance, signed by the grieving employee and by the Steward of the department involved, will be presented to the supervisor of the department within four (4) foil working days of the supervisor’s decision in clause 7,02. The supervisor will give written decision to the departmental Shop Steward within four (4)
8
full working days of receiving the written grievance. The grievance will be considered settled unless Step 2 is taken within four (4) full working days following the written decision given by the supervisor in Step 1,
Step 2
The written grievance will be submitted by the Grievance Committee to the Manager to whom the Supervisor reports to.
The Manager or his representative will give his written decision to the Grievance Committee within four (4) full working days of receiving the written grievance. The grievance will be considered settled unless Step 3 is taken within four (4) full working days following the written decision given by the Manager or his representative in Step 2,
Step 3
The written grievance, including copies of the submissions and ■ decisions made under the preceding steps, will be submitted to the President. The President will give his written decision to the Grievance Committee within five (5) fill working days of receiving the written grievance. If the President is not available, the parties may mutually agree to extend the normal five (5) day time period or accept the President’s nominee. The grievance will be considered settled unless timely request for Arbitration, as provided in Article 8 of the Agreement is made following the written decision of the President or his nominee in Step 3.
7,04	A representative of the International Union may be present at any of the proceedings under Step 2 or 3 above, at the request of either party,
7,05	Any difference or grievance arising directly between the Company and Union may be submitted in writing by either party at Step 2,
9
7.06	When a group of employeesfrom more than one departmenthas a complaint or grievance, it shall be first taken up under Step 2,
7.07	Any adjustment arising out ofthe settlement of an employee’s grievance, or the grievance of a group of employees, under the grievance or arbitration procedure shall not be made retroactive prior to the beginning of the pay period immediately proceeding the date on which it was first presented thereunder in writing by the employee or the group of employees concerned. The above restriction on retroactivity will not apply to payroll grievances.
7.08	The Union acknowledges that probationary employees may be dismissed by the Company, and that such dismissal shall not be the subject of a grievance.
L 8- \] II” I ]
8.01	Failing a settlement under the Grievance Procedure, the matter in dispute may be taken to arbitration, provided that if no written request is received within fourteen (14) calendar days after the final decision is given under the grievance procedure it shall be deemed to have been finally, completely, and satisfactorily settled.
8.02	For purposes of this Article “working days” exclude Saturdays, Sundays and Company recognized holidays.
When either party requests arbitration as herein above provided, it shall make such request in writing addressed to the other party to this Agreement and, at the same time, nominate an arbitrator. The notice shall state the matter at issue and shall state in what respect the Agreement has been violated or misinterpreted by reference to
' 10
the specific clause or clauses relied upon. The notice shall also state the nature of the relief or remedy sought. The E&rty so notified shall appoint their arbitrator within ten (10) working days of such notice.
The two (2) arbitrators so nominated shall meet within ten (10) working days, and if within five (5) further full working days they fail to settle the grievance, they shall attempt to select by agreement a third person who shall act as impartial chairman of the Arbitration. If they are unable to agree on the choice of such a chairman within seven (7) calendar days, then the Minister of Labour for the Province of Ontario shall be asked to name a chairman of the Arbitration Board.
8.03	No person may be appointed as an arbitrator who has been involved in an attempt to negotiate or settle the grievance.
8.04	No matter may be submitted to arbitration which has not been properly carried through all previous required steps of the grievance procedure.
8.05	The proceedings of the Arbitration Board will be expedited by the parties hereto, and the decision of a majority of such board shall be final and binding upon the Company, Union and employees concerned.
8.06	Each of the parties hereto will bear the expense of the arbitrator appointed by it, or for it, and parties will equally bear the expenses, if any, of the Chairman of the Arbitration Board.
8.07	The Arbitration Board shall not have any authority to make a decision inconsistent with the provisions of this Agreement.
11
8.08	Any and all time limits referred to under the grievance and arbitration procedures herein may, at any time, be extended by written agreement between the Company and the Union.
8.09	In determining and discharge or any other disciplinary grievance, the Board of Arbitration shall have the authority to:
(a)	affirm the Company's action and dismissthe grievance
(b)	set aside the penalty imposed by the Company, and restore the grievor to his former position with or without compensation; or
(c)	vary or alter the penalty imposed by the Company or make such other determination as the Board in its discretion may deemjustified.
ARTICLE 9 - DISCHARGE
9.01	A discharged employee shall have the tight to discuss their grievance with their Shop Steward in the Human Resources office
'	before leaving the plant. If an employee claims the discharge to be
unjust, it shall be treated as a grievance if a written statement of such grievance is lodged by the employee with the Manager within two (2) working days (Monday to Friday) after the employee ceases to work for the Company. This grievance shall be taken up under the Grievance Procedure, and Step 1 will be omitted.
9.02	Such special grievances may be settled under the grievance or arbitration procedure by:
(i)	Confirming the management's action in discharging the
employee.
12
(ii)	Reinstating the employee with full compensation for time lost less such sums earned by the employee from the date of their dismissal to the date of their reinstatement.
(iii)	Or by any other arrangement which may be deemedjust and equitable.
______,E 10 - STRIKES, LOCKOUTS AND SLOWDOWNS
10.01	In view of the orderly procedures here set out for settling
grievances, the Company agrees that there will be no lockout of the employees, and the Union agrees that there will be no strike, slow-down, sit-down or any stoppage of work, or any other action either partial or complete, either by an individual employee or by a group of employees, which will in anyway disrupt the operations of the Company.
ARTICLE 11 - SENIORITY
11.01	For new employees (operators, caretakers and finishers) the first fifty-five (55) days worked frcnthe date of hire will be considered probationary and not entitled to seniority. Two (2) evaluation meetings will be held for probationary employees; one prior to the twentieth (20th) working day and the other prior to the fortieth (401) working day. For all other classifications the first seventy-five (75) days worked will be considered probationary and not entitled to seniority. The probationary period will be extended by plant vacations, but not beyond a consecutive thirteen (13) week lay-off or any occurrence over which the Company has no control. A twelve (12) hour shift
13
will count as one and a half (1 112) days worked for the purpose of seniority.
During the respective probationary periods, as outlined in this Article, new employees will not be entitled to seniority, and may be dismissed or laid off at the discretion of the Company.
Upon the expiration of the probationary period as outlined in this Article, new employees shall acquire seniority rights and be placed on the seniority list with seniority established from the first working day of the employee's last hiring.
11.02	The Company will provide the Union with updated department and plant wide seniority lists every three (3) months which shall be posted on a Company bulletin board for a minimum of fourteen (14) calendar days.
All seniority lists will show the employee's name and date of employment as well as the employee's status or job classification in the following plant departments:
(a)	Compression
(b)	Finishing
(c)	Injection
(d)	Materials Handling
(e)	Plant Services
(f)	Quality Assurance
(g)	Spray Painting
The Spray Painting and Finishing Departments will be administered as one department for all purposes except seniority, layoff and recall.
14
The Company agrees to continue to administer the Plant Service Department in the same manner as when the Tool and Maintenance sections were named as separate departments under the Collective Agreement. Such practices will include, but not be limited to seniority and preference for vacation periods.
11.03	An employee shall lose all seniority if that employee:
(a)	Following a layoff of indeterminateperiod, on being notified by the Company by registered mail to the employee’s last known address, with a copy of the letter to the President of Local 1476, fails to advise the Company within seven (7) calendar days of the date of the mailing of the registered letter, of the employee’s intention to return to work. • Such return to work, unless otherwise agreed by the Company, for reasonable cause, must be within two (2) working days (Monday to Friday) of receipt of the original notice.
(b)	If absent without leave for two (2) consecutive scheduled shifts. An employee is considered absent without leave if no report is made to the Human Resources office or the employee’s shift supervisor by the end of their regular shift. Legitimate reasons for failing to comply with the foregoing will be taken into consideration.
(c)	Following a layoff for a determined period, fails, without permission of the Company, to report for work on the date and the time specified at the time of layoff.
15
(d)	Following a period of sick leave exceeding the authorized absence under Article 22.03 (e) (ii), fails to provide requested medical certification.
11.04	An employee will lose all seniority and his employmentwill cease if that employee:
(a)	Voluntarily quits the employ of the Company.
(b)	Is discharged by the Company and such discharge is not reversed through the Grievance Procedure.
(c)	Has been laid off for more than twelve (12) consecutive months. In the case of employees with five (5) years’ seniority or more, at the time of layoff, has been laid off for more than twenty-four (24) consecutive months; or, in the case of employeeswith ten (10) years’ seniority or more at the time of layoff, has been laid off for more than thirty-six (36) consecutive months.
11.05	It shall be the duty of employees to notify the Company promptly in writing of any change of address or telephone. If an employee fails to do this, the Company will not be responsible for failure of notice to reach such employee.
11.06	An employee shall not suffer loss of seniority owing to absence through accident or illness provided that the Company may require proof of such absence in the form of a certified statement from a Doctor of Medicine or Doctor of Chiropractic, that the employee was unfit for work on the day(s) in question.
16
ARTICLE 12 - TRANSFERS AND JOB POSTINGS
12.01	Definitions:
(a)	A transfer is the relocation of a seniority employee to a permanent vacancy in the same or another department which results from an employee application, application of seniority, or other reason. Requests by seniority employees for change of shifts within a department shall not be considered as transfers and will only be granted on a "request if possible" basis.
(b)	A permanent vacancy is an opening within any classification of more than thirty (30) calendar days duration. A vacancy created by an employee who is absent due to illness, injury, vacation or authorized leave of absence shall not be considered a permanent vacancy.
(c)	A general worker level shall be considered as the lowest job classification in a department.
12.02	All permanent vacancies above the level of general workers, and newly created positions above the level of general worker in any department shall be posted for two (2) consecutive scheduled shifts (or five (5) calendar days when working twelve (12) hour shifts) on a Company bulletin board before permanently filling such vacancy. An employee desiring such position must make application in writing to the Human Resources office within two (2) consecutive scheduled shifts (or five (5) calendar days when working twelve (12) hour shifts) fem the initial time of posting.
17
Employees on leave of absence or approved vacation will be considered forj ob vacancies or new positions above the level of general worker if application in writing is made to the Hunan Resources office within forty-three (43) calendar days of the job vacancy, or within two (2) scheduled shifts of return to work, whichever is the shorter period.
In the case ofjob vacancies at the general worker level in any department, a Courtesy Notice will be placed on the bulletin board so that applications fron within the plant regardless of department may be considered. Such Courtesy Notices will remain posted for a minimum of twenty-four (24) hours. If the position is filled within forty-eight (48) hours from time the notice posted, it will be subject to change based on further applications received for that period.
The Company will provide an answer to all applicants within fourteen (14) calendar days of the notice removal.
The Company will notify the Union of the name(s) of the successful applicant(s) and place their name(s) on the plant bulletin board.
12.03	Employees wishing consideration for transfer must complete a Transfer Application provided by the company and present it to the Human Resources office. Periodically, the Human Resources office will notify transfer applicants of the necessity to renew their applications. Failure to renew within seven (7) calendar days of this notice will invalidate a transfer application.
18
12.04	Transfer applicants will be considered at the time of aj ob
vacancy. Transfer applicants for another department cannot be accepted if they have been successfully transferred in the preceding six (6) months. Newly hired employees will not be eligible for transfer until they have completed six (6) months' service with the Company unless there are no other successful applicants. Further, transfer applicants will be interviewed by the Employee Relations Coordinator (or designate or selection committee, where appropriate) and evaluated in view of the requirements of the j ob vacancy. The person selected will be the person who in the judgment of the Company has the following:
(a)	Qualifications to perform the j ob.
(b)	Ability to perform thejob.
(c)	Qualities of reliability and responsibility.
(d)	Seniority will govern if other requirements are met.
Should the Company NOT choose the most senior applicant from among present Company employees, the following documentation must be available for inspection by a member of the Union Executive.
Written examinations taken by both the applicant refused the position and the applicant accepted, will be in each employee's personnel fde. Also any trade certification or recommendations will be filed along with the hiring supervisor's written report on each person.
19
If the Union Executive representative wishes to inspect these documents it will be done in the presence of the hiring supervisor and the Employee Relations Coordinator (or their designates) vriJhin nine (9Jcalendar days of the posted notice showing the successful applicant.
Any applicant with more seniority than the applicant accepted, will have the opportunity to discuss the refusal of their application and the reasons thereof, with the Supervisor of the department doing the hiring in the presence of the Employee Relations Coordinator (or designate) and the employee's Union Steward before the notice showing the successful applicant is posted.
None of the foregoing will preclude the Company going outside the Company for applicants if suitable applicants are not available among the present employees.
12.05	A transferred employee will retain the seniority of their former department or section for their respective probationary periods after which time seniority will be transferred to the employee's new department.
12.06	Should a transferred employee prove unsatisfactory within their respective probationary periods of transfer, the employee will be returned to their former position and department. If the employee's former position in a particular group or shift has been filled, the employee may be compelled to go into another group or shift where there is an opening. Further, the employee will be advised of reasons for unsatisfactory performance by the Supervisor of the department or section doing the hiring, in the presence of the Employee Relations Coordinator (or designate), and the employee's Union Steward.
20
12.07	Any seniority hourly employee transferring to the salaried staff of Waltec Plastics Inc. will be on probation for three (3) calendar months. During this period the transferred employee will remain a seniority Union member, pay Union dues and be subject to all terms of the existing Collective Agreement except the following:
(a)	Rates of pay.
(b)	Hours of work.
(c)	Grievance procedures in regard to transfer ftom salaried back to hourly.
If, during the three (3) month probation period the transferred employee is found unsuitable, or if the employee elects not to continue with the salaried position, the employee will be
returned to their former hourly position without loss of seniority,
If the employee has passed the salaried probationary period, but is still within twelve (12) calendar months of the original transfer and if for any reason either on behalf of the Company or on behalf of the employee there is a need to move from salaried back to hourly, the employee will be given the opportunity to accept a job which in the judgment of the Company is suitable to the employee's qualifications and ability in the Department employing the least senior person in the Company at that particular time, The employee will regain their seniority, includingthat time period while on Waltec Plastics Inc. salaried staff. The least senior employee, then will be laid
Off.
12.08	If a seniority employee is permanently unable to perform their job due to health reasons, that employee will be given the
21
opportunity to transfer to anotherjob classification in any department, conditional upon their ability to perform the new job satisfactorily in the opinion of the Company and upon his having greater seniority than the person he displaces. The least senior person in the department would be laid off or given the opportunity for other work if available. The employee making the transfer would retain seniority, but would receive effective immediately, the wage rate of the newjob.
ARTICLE 13 - LAYOFFS AND RECALLS
13.01	Reductions of the work force will be carried out in accordance with following procedures, provided in each case that the employees remaining in the department are willing, capable and qualified to perform the work available. In cases of lay-offs the Company will notify the employees involved as early as possible, but for lay-offs of more than seven (7) calendar days the Company will notify employees at least forty-eight hours prior to the lay-off. The provisions of this section shall not apply if the lack of work is occasioned by circumstancesbeyond the Company’s control.
(a)	In the event of a lay-off in a department which is not
expected to exceed seven (7) calendar days, seniority shall apply in determining the reduction of the work force by shift seniority within the department.
In the event there is work in another department and the employee is capable and qualified to perform the work available, he will be required to report to the assigned work station.
22
(b) In the event of a lay-off which is expected to exceed seven
(7) calendar days, the following will govern.
i)	In any department where a work force reduction is necessary, probationary employees and students will be laid off first.
ii)	If further reduction to the work force is necessary in a department, regular employees will be laid off in inverse order of departmental seniority.
iii)	Employees laid off as in ii) above, who have at least one (1) year’s seniority, will be given the opportunity to temporarily transfer into a departmental classification which they have successfully completed the appropriate probation period, providing they have the necessary seniority to do so.
Employees who have demonstrated their ability to perform in more than one department must bump into the department employingthe least senior employee.
Employees with six (6)years’ seniority or more may elect to bump into any department employing ajunior employee in any classification the more senior employee is capable to perform.
iv)	Employees who cannot ,transferunder iii) above will only have the right to transfer into a departmental classification which at the time is employing the least senior person in the Company and if this action is taken, the least senior person will be laid off. If the job in the department which employs the least
23
senior person in the Company happens to be aj ob that cannot be performed by the person being laid off, the opportunity will pass to the department employing the next lowest senior person in the Company.
v)	Regular employeeswho exercise their seniority and temporarily transfer to another department under layoff conditions, shall have five (5) scheduled shifts to reach an acceptable level of performance in their new temporary classification or be laid off.
vi)	Pay scale ofj ob to which employee transfers will apply immediately upon transfer.
vii)	Regular employees who have elected temporary transfer in lieu of lay-offmust return to their original job classificationand department when there is an increase in the work force of their original department and their former position again becomes available.
viii)	Once a regular employee with one (1) or more years seniority elects lay-off in lieu of temporary transfer that employee shall not have the right to return to work until recalled by the Company to that employee’s original job classification.
ix)	Regular employees who have elected temporary transfer in lieu of lay-off retain the seniority for their original department as well as carry this same seniority to the department in which they have temporarily transferred in the event of a further lay-off.
24
In the event there is work in another department and the employee is capable and qualified to perform the work available, he will be required to report to the assigned work station.
13.02	When there is an increase in the work force, laid off employees will be recalled in order of seniority provided they are willing and qualified to perform the work available. During periods of layoff seniority will accumulate subject to the provisions of Article 11,03,
13.03	No new employees will be hired until all laid off employees who are willing and qualified to do thejobs have been recalled, subject to all other provisions of Article 13.
13.04 Notwithstanding any of the provisions of this Article, members of the Shop Committee shall, in the event of a layoff or recall, be considered as having the most seniority in the department,
. and shall be continued at work, if work is available, provided they are willing and able to perform whatever work is then . available.
Departmental Union Stewards will be considered as having the most seniority on their respective shifts in their department. Where more than one (1) Steward in a department is entitled to super seniority by virtue of 6.02 or 13.05, then seniority as between themselves will be determined by their relative positions on the departmental seniority lists.
The Shop Committee, under the provisions of this Article, shall include all Departmental Union Stewards and Officers of the Local Union Executive.
25
13.05	No seniority employee will be laid off while a student remains employed, provided the employee is capable and willing to perform the job.
13.06	The parties agree that for purposes of layoff Technicians 1, 2 and 3 with a minimum of one (1) years' seniority shall not be effected by such layoff until a seniority level of seven (7) years is reached. For the purpose of recall, Technicians 1 and 2 with a minimum of one (1) year's seniority shall be deemed to have five (5) years' seniority.
It is further agreed that in the event such employee may, provided he has greater seniority, elect to bump the least senior employee who's job he is qualified to perform in any department.
ARTICLE 14 - LEAVE OF ABSENCE
14.01	The Company may grant leave of absence without pay to any employee for a legitimate personal reason for up to three (3) months. Any such person who is absent with written permission shall not be considered to be laid off, and their seniority shall continue to accumulate during their absence.
To ensure fair treatment of the intent of this clause, all applications for leave of absence will be reviewed by the Department Manager, the Employee Relations Coordinator, and the President.
14.02	Any leave of absence shall be confirmed in writing, and no such leave will affect any employee's seniority rights when used for the purpose granted. If an employee uses their leave of absence
26
for any other purpose than the purpose for which it was granted, he may lose his seniority.
14.03	The Company will grant leave of absence without pay to a maximum of two (2) delegated Union members to attend Union Conventions or Conferences for a maximum of ten (10) scheduled shifts per year. Up to eight (8) additional scheduled shifts leave of absence without pay will be considered for the delegated Union members if they are members of the Executive Committee of the Ontario Council and are required to attend Regional Office meetings, providing such leave will not critically affect the operation of the department concerned, In both cases, the Company must be notified in writing at least five (5) scheduled shifts in advance of any requested leave of absence.
14.04	Bereavement
Should a death occur in the immediate family ( mother, father, sister, brother, father-in-law or mother-in-law, grandparents, brother-in-law, sister-in-law of an employee or spouse), the Company will grant leave of absence for a period of not more than three (3) (or five (5) for wife, husband or child) scheduled shifts at the employee's basic hourly rate. Such leave of absence shall be granted provided:
(a)	The employee has completed his probationary period.
(b)	The leave of absence is for the days of funeral, or interment, or mourning period.
Saturdays, Sundays, paid holiday days and paid vacation leave are not working days under this clause except when such days are regularly scheduled days for the employee. Paid holidays and paid vacation days used as bereavement leave must be taken
27
in the first available working days the employee was originally scheduled to return to work.
In cases of deferred interment, the employee can elect to defer bereavement day(s) until that time provided the actual interment day is taken as bereavement leave and the Company is notified of the employee's intention. Should deferred intermenttake place on a weekend, the working day(s) nearest the interment day would be taken.
"Common-law"relationships will be deemed to exist for purposes of this and other benefit clauses where an employee has filed an appropriate declaration no less than once per year.
In addition, either of the following conditions must exist:
a)	A minimum of one (1) year of continuous cohabitation in a conjugal relationship or
b)	The couple have a natural or, adoptive child and the couple's relationship is of some permanence.
14.05	Court Appearances
If an employee is called for Jury Duty or subpoenaed by the Crown as a witness, the Company will pay the difference between the daily pay and the employee's normal regular straight time pay, for any day the employee would have normally worked. This will be exclusive of any transportation costs or reimbursements. The employee must supply to the Company, the necessary documents to verify reimbursements. If the employee reports for court appearances (referred to above) and then is released for the balance of the day, he will be expected to report to work as soon as possible that day.
28
The Company will grant leave of absence with pay to' an employee whose child of less than sixteen (1 6) years of age is subpoenaed by the Crown as a witness.
The employee's Supervisor must be notified at the time of Jury Duty notification or subpoena and the usual written authorization signed.
14.06	Union Officers will be granted time offwithout pay to attend Executive meetings of the Union Local provided that the meetings are scheduled so that the majority of Officers attending would not normally be on shift at that time. The Company must be notified in writing at least five (5) working days in advance of any requested leave of absence.
14.07	If an employee fails to report for work at the expiration of any leave granted, he shall be deemed to have resigned unless excused by the Company.
14.08	The Company will grant twenty-four (24) scheduled hours leave of absence to expectant fathers at the time of their child's birth. Such leave of absence will be with pay. The employee's Supervisor must be notified in advance with as much notification time as practical and the usual written authorization signed.
14.09	Leave of absence vifti pay, up to a maximum of one (1) scheduledshift will be granted to the appropriate department Union Steward, to attend the funeral of an employee of the Company.
29
14.10' Leave of absence may be granted to delegated Union members to attend Union sponsored safety and/or education seminars to a maximum of ten (10) scheduled shifts per employee per year. Leave of absence will not be refused unless it will critically affect the operation of the department involved.
14.11 All written requests for leave of absence to be answered within four (4) working days.
ARTICLE 15 • NOTICES AND ANNOUNCEMENTS
15.01	All Union bulletins to be posted in the plant must have prior
approval of both the local Union President (or Union authorized signing officer), and the Employee Relations Coordinator (or designate). These approved Union Bulletins shall only be posted on bulletin boards provided by the Company.
Further, the Union agrees that it will not distribute any pamphlet, circular or petition in the Plant without prior approval of the Employee Relations Coordinator (or designate).
ARTICLE 16 - REPORTING ALLOWANCE
16.01	If an employee reports for work at the commencement of their usual shift and on time, they shall be entitled to a minimum number of hours pay equivalent to half of the employee's regular shift at no less ihan their regular payroll rate unless notified previously by the Company not to report, either orally or by notice on the bulletin board, or by message left at the employee's residence provided that, if requested by the Company, the employee shall perform a minimum number of
30
hours equivalent to half of the employee's regular shift of such reasonable alternate work as the Company may assign; and provided further that there shall be no such obligation on the part of the Company to pay any reporting allowance if the lack of work is occasioned by circumstancesbeyond the Company's control.
16.02	If an employee is asked to come back to work after their regular hours, and if it is not an extension of their regular shift at the end of the regular shift, the employee is entitled to "CALL-IN" pay. An employee working any time up to two (2) hours at two (2) times the straight hourly rate. Time worked by an employee in excess of two (2) hours on "CALL-IN" will be subject to the overtime provisions of Article 21,04,
If, for their own convenience, an employee chooses to return later instead of extending their shift, it will be considered normal overtime instead of "CALL-IN".
The Union recognizes the Company's right to request the employee to work for the full time paid on "CALL-IN".
16.03	If an employee is designated on the Stand-by Diy Roster for a weekend or Company recognized holiday, the effected employee will receive sixty ($60) dollars Stand-by day.
The inclusion of an individual's name on Stand-by Duty Roster is voluntary. However, once it is included it must remain for a three (3) month cycle. If anyone "trades-off a weekend, the posted list must be changed by Friday 10:00 a.m, at the latest by the person originally designated for duty,
31
16.04	If an employee is contacted while on vacation and subsequently voluntarily agrees to work for any period during that vacation, they will receive 1 ‘/j times their normal wage rate for that period. Also the equivalent time worked will be granted at a later date as regular vacation.
1	17-____________,OGI< CHANGE
17 It is agreed that t is to t! advantage c both the Company and the	to utilize all possible	ic variation,
automation, d tifi improvements.
17.02	It is agreed that for the purpose of this Article, technological changes shall be defined as the effect upon employees of the permanent elimination of an operator or majority of an operator's time brought about by major changes in machinery design. This, in no way, is to be interpreted in a manner which would prevent the Company from making normal improvements and savings through increased efficiency or establishing new work standards by altering or improving the production methods and efficiency of machinery or personnel, provided such acts are consistent with the terms of this Agreement.
17.03	The Company shall notify the Union not less than thirty (30) calendar days before the introduction of any technological change and shall endeavour to furnish all information necessary to an understanding of the proposed change and shall discuss with the Union methods of achieving the change to ensure that the interest of the Company and the employees are fairly and effectively protected.
32
17.04	In addition to notice of separation, any employee discharged by the Company as the result of technological change will be eligible for a severance allowance on the basis of one (1) week's pay at their straight time hourly rate for each full year of seniority to a maximum of twenty-six (26) weeks' pay.
Severance pay will be paid to the severed employee each regular pay day until the maximum severance pay has been paid to the employee as explained in this clause. If the employee is rehired during the period that he is entitled to severance pay -severance pay will cease immediately on rehiring. If an employee is willing to accept another position in the department in lieu of severance, employees will be given this opportunity in order of seniority if such positions are available. If the employee accepts a new job in lieu of severance he shall then receive the rate of his former job for a period of one (1) week for each six (6) months of seniority with a maximum of thirteen (13) weeks and a minimum of three (3) weeks.
17.05	In the event a technological change creates ajob classification that immediately requires skilled employees the Company will have the right to hire skilled employees. If, however, a technological change creates aj ob classification whereby the Company has sufficient time to train present employees for this position, then the employees in the department will be given the opportunity, in order of seniority, to train for the position, provided in the judgment of the Company the employee or employees concerned have the necessary qualifications to be trained for the job.
33
17.06	When a technological change creates a newjob classification the Company will set the rate of pay for thisjob. If the rate is not satisfactory to the employee concerned it may become the subject of a grievance.
ARTICLE 18 - COMPANY RECOGNIZED HOLIDAYS
18.01 The following days are Company recognized holidays for the purpose of this Agreement.
New liar's Day,
Good Friday Easter Monday Victoria Day Canada Day Civic Holiday
(i) The day designated is the day before Christmas unless that day is a Saturday or Sunday, then a day in the week following Christmas.
(«) The floating holiday will be observed annually on a day to be mutually agreed upon by the Company and the Union. However, in the event the Federal Government legislated Heritage Day, the floating holiday will be observed on the day so designated.
Christmas Shutdown EEys and Floating Holiday will be as follows:
Labour Day ThanksgivingDay Christmas Eve (i)
Christmas Day
Boxing Day (effective Sept.20/02) Day After Boxing Day One Floating Holiday (ii)
34
December 25,2000 - Monday -Christmas Eve December 26,2000 - Tuesday -Christmas Day December 27,2000 - Wednesday-Boxing Day
2001
June 29,2001 -July 2,2001 -December 24,2001 -December 25,2001 -December 26,2001 -
Friday -Floater Monday -Canada Day Monday -Christmas Eve Tuesday -Christmas Day Wednesday-Boxing Day
2002
June 28,2002 -July 1,2002 -December 24,2002 -December 25,2002 -December 26,2002 -December 27, 2002 •
Friday -Floater Monday -Canada Day Tuesday -Christmas Eve Wednesday-ChristmasDay Thursday • Boxing Day Friday . -Day after Boxing Day
2003
June 30,2003 ■	-Floater
July 1, 2003 •	Tuesday -Canada Day
18.02 For all personnel, except injection, compression, quality
assurance, storekeeper and caretaker (when on twelve (1 2) hour shift, seven (7) day continuous operation) the above Company recognized holidays will be paid for regardless of when they fall. Employees shall receive pay on the basis of their straight time hourly rate for the number of hours they would have worked if the holiday had been a normal work day.
35
18.03	For all personnel, except injection, compression, quality assurance, storekeeper and caretaker, (when on twelve (12) hour shift, seven (7) day continuous operation) in the event of a paid holiday falling on a Saturday, Sunday or during the vacation period, another day will be declared in lieu of the holiday.
18.04	Authorized work performed on a Company recognized holiday shall be paid for at two (2) times the basic straight time hourly rate of the individual plus holiday pay, where applicable.
18.05	In the case of injection, compression, quality assurance, storekeeper, and caretaker, (when on twelve (12) hour shift, seven (7) day continuous operation), all Company recognized holidays have been traded off except Christmas Eve, Christmas, Boxing Day, and New Year's Day. The above mentioned personnel will receive all Company recognized holidays, including the above named, when the injection and compression departments close for the Christmas holiday period. Alternatively, at the discretion of the Company the banked statutory holidays can be taken as per the trade off.
Work performed by the above personnel on Company recognized holidays will be at two (2) times the basic straight time hourly rate, plus Weekend Premiums if applicable. This will apply the day the Company recognizes the holiday for the balance of the plant.
The above personnel at the time of the Christmas shutdown will be paid eight (8) hours straight time holiday pay for each of the Company recognized holidays which have been included in their term of employment. Twelve (12) hour shift employees who actually worked on a Company recognized holiday will be paid twelve (12) hours holiday pay instead of eight (8) on trade-
36
off at Christmas. Effective June 1, 1999, twelve (12) hour shift employees will be paid twelve (12) hours pay for all Statutory holidays, except Christmas Eve, Christmas Day, Boxing Day and New Year’s Day which will be paid at eight (8) hours.
If an employee operating on the above schedule leaves the employ of the company for any reason he will receive eight (8) hours straight time pay for each of the Company recognized holidays, during the term of his employment, if the person has not already received holiday pay for that day, and if he complied with the terms of Article 18.06,
Notwithstandingthe above paragraph, if an employee was on the twelve (12) hour schedule and actually worked on a Company recognized holiday, that employee, when leaving the Company for any reason, will receive twelve (12) hours straight time pay for each of the Company recognized holidays they worked during the term of employment, if that person has not already received holiday pay for that day and if they comply with the terms of Article 18.06,
18.06	Employees shall not be eligible for Company recognized holiday pay if they:
(a)	Have not completed their probationary period.
(b)	While on lay-off refuse work by not exercising their bumping rights or refuse call-in work having received at least twenty-four (24) hours prior notice.
(c)	Fail to work or complete the regular scheduled shift on the working day immediately prior to, and following the holiday, unless excused by the Company. When employees are absent due to illness, accident, layoff, approved vacation, or bereavement in the immediate
37
family, provided evidence satisfactoryto the Company is produced, then they shall be paid for any Company recognized holiday that arises. An employee will not lose holiday pay by being late on the shift before or after the holiday, as long as the lateness does not exceed one-half hour.
(d)	In any event, an employee must have worked within the three (3) week period immediately prior to the holiday, as well as the shift on the day before the holiday, except if on approved vacation, and as referred to in paragraph (b) to qualify for Company recognized holiday pay.
18.07	Any regular working day that is traded with a Premium Day by mutual agreement between the Company and the Union, shall be treated as a standard day for all terms of this Collective Agreement.
Any request for trade-offby Production Departments should be presented in writing to the Company by the Union Executive at least thirty (30) calendar days, or shorter period by mutual agreement, prior to the requested change. In the event the Company requests trade-off by Production Departments, the same notice period shall apply.
ARTICLE 19 - VACATIONS WITH PAY
19.01	All employees who, on June 30th of any one year, have the
number of years consecutive service outlined in the following schedule shall be entitled to the number of weeks vacation and the percentage of annual earnings applicable thereto:
38
Years of Seniority on June 30ttl
Up to three (3) months
Three (3) months but less
than six (6) months
Six (6) norths but less than five (5) years
Five (5) years but less than twelve (12) years
Twelve (12) years but less
than twenty (20) years
Twenty (20) years but less than thirty (30) years (3^ year)
Vacation Time
1	week
2	weeks
3	weeks
4	weeks
5	weeks
Percent of Annual Earnings
4%
4%
4%
6%
8%
10%
Thirty (30) years Thirty One (31) years Thirty Two (32) years Thirty three (33) years Thirty Four (34) years
5 weeks + 1 day 5 weeks + 2 days 5 weeks + 3 days 5 weeks + 4 days 6 weeks
10%
10%
10%
10%
10%
Employees who are entitled to vacation period in excess of vacation plant shutdown shall have their remaining vacation at the time mutually agreed between the Company and the
39
employee concerned. Where mutual agreement is not reached by December 31 st, a maximum of one (1) week's vacation time may be deferred to no later than March 31 st,
Vacation time taken after July 1 st will be paid for in blocks of one (1) week.
19.02	Total annual earnings for vacation pay computation shall include the employee's total earnings in the preceding twelve (12) month period ending June 30th of the current vacation year.
Lost time from work, while receiving Workers' Compensation or Company Sick Benefit, shall be included in the Annual Earnings upon which vacation pay is calculated, as if the employee has received his full regular pay during such absence.
19.03	Employees leaving the Company's employ prior to the vacation shutdown will receive vacation pay on the basis set out in 19,01 on earnings since the previous computation date.
19.04	The Company at its discretionmay shut down the plant for vacation period (normally during the two (2) weeks prior to Civic Holiday), at which time the employees will take their vacation, if not required to work during this period. Notice of such vacation shutdown will be posted two (2) months prior to the vacation period.
19.05	An employee who becomes seriously disabled (e.g. requiring hospitalization) within three (3) weeks of the plant shutdown, and who is receiving Workers' Compensation or weekly indemnity benefits during the plant shutdown shall be entitled to take vacation at a later date, as may be mutually agreed upon.
40
ARTICLE 20 - WAGES
20.01	The Company agrees to pay and the Union agrees to accept for the term of this Agreement, the schedule ofj ob classifications-and wage rates as set out in Appendixes “A”,‘‘B” and “C” which are attached to and form part of this Agreement.
There shall be weekly payment of wages effective January 1, 1987,
20.02 In addition to the rates of pay listed in Appendixes "A".“B” and “C” the Company will pay the followingpremiums:
Shift Premium
(a)	Injection, Compression, Quality Assurance, Storekeeper and Caretaker (when on shift F),
For hours worked from 7 p,m, to 7 a.m., 6% of base rate per hour.
(b)	All other Departments including above departments when on eight (8) hour shift schedules.
ShiftNo. 1 - No Premium
Shift No. 2 • 4% of base rate per hour
ShiftNo. 3 ■ 6% of base rate per hour
Week-End Premiums
Injection, Compression, Quality Assurance, Storeskeeper and Caretaker (when on shift F),
41
For hours worked from 7 a.m, Saturday to 7 a.m. Sunday,
12% of base rate per hour.
For hours worked from 7 a.m. Sunday to 7 a.m. Monday, 20% of base rate per hour.
If schedules are started involving Saturday or Sunday as part of a regular schedule, other than the twelve (12) hour schedule as mentioned above, weekend premiums will be negotiated. If agreement is not reached within sixty (60) days, voluntary binding arbitration will be invoked.
20.03	An employee temporarily transferred to anotherjob for a period of fourteen (14) calendar days or less will receive the rate of the job to which the employee is transferred or the rate of the previously heldjob, whichever is higher. This fourteen (1 4) day period may be extended by nutual agreement of the Company and the employee. An employee transferred in lieu of layoff or at their own request will receive the rate of the job to which the employee is transferred.
An employee temporarily transferred on a job posting will receive the rate of the job to which the employee is transferred or the rate of the previously held job, whichever is higher.
20.04	It is agreed that the Company has the option to apply rates above the scheduled hiring rates when persons hired have previous experience either with this Company or elsewhere.
20.05	There shall be no pyramiding of any premium or overtime payment with any other premium or overtime payment.
42
Overtime will be calculated on base rates only, shift premiums or other premiums will then be added.
20.06	An employee suffering an injury in the course of their employment who is required to leave the plant premises, will be paid to the end of their regular shift.
The Company reserves the right to investigate all reported injuries on Company premises, and if through medical investigation it is found that the employee was not required to leave the plant premises at the time of the injury, then the employee will not be paid as provided above.
20.07	In addition to the rates of pay outlined in Appendices "A, B, and C”, a Cost of Living Allowance (C.O.L.A.) of .65 of the percentage increase in the Consumer Price Index(C.P.I. 1986 = 100) as published by Statistics Canada for each full 0.2 increase in the C.P.I, will be calculated based on an employee's rate of pay as set out in "Wage Appendices" and will become payable as follows:
COLA adjustment to commence beginning with the first full pay period after the publication of any index exceeding 1.069 multiplied by the August 2000 C.P.I..
In the case of decreases in the C.P.I. the COLA, if any, will be reduced on the same formula as increases are calculated, I lours granted for recognized holidays will be considered as wanked hours for the purpose of this clause.
At September 20, 2003, the COLA, if any, will he folded into the base rate.
41
\ui l( I K 21 - HOURS OK WORK ANI) OVERTIME
21.01	I liis Article dc linos the Normal hours of work and provides the basis lor calculating overtime. It shall not be construed as a guarantee of hours per day or per week, or days of work per week or as a restriction on the scheduling of a longer or shorter day or work week whenever, in the opinion of the Company, it is necessary to meet business requirements.
21.02	The following shall be the standard shifts of the Company:
A One (1) shift per day. Shift Times:	8
8:00 a.m. to 12:00 noon 12:30 p.m, to 4:30 p,m.
Rest Periods:	Two (2) fifteen (1 5) minute per shift (paid'
Lunch Period:	One (1) thirty (30) minute per shift (unpai<
B Two (2) shifts per day in a service department.
Shift Times: Shift
8:00 a.m. to 12:00 noon 12:30 p,m. to 4:30 p.m.
Shift 2-	3:00 p.m, to 7:00 p.m.
7:30 p.m, to 1 T.00 p.m.
Rest Periods:	Two (2) fifteen (15) minute per shift (paid
Lunch Period:	One (1) thirty (30) minute per shift
(unpaid on day shift, paid on afternoon shift)
44
C Two (2) shifts per day in a production department not requiring continuous operation during rest and lunch periods.
Shift Times: Shift
7:00 a.m. to 11:00 a.m. 11:30 a.m. to 3:30 p.m.
Rest Period:
Shift 2-	3:30 p.m, to 7:30 p.m,
8:00 p.m. to 11:30 p.m.
Two (2) fifteen (1 5) minute per shift (paid)
Lunch Period:	One (I)thirty (30) minute per shift (unpaid
on day shift, paid on afternoon shift)
D Two (2) shifts per day in a production department requiring continuous machine operation during rest and lunch periods.
Shift Times: Shift I- 7:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m.
Shift 2 -	3:00 p.m. to 11,00 p.m.
Shift I - variations:
6:00 a.m. to 2:00 p.m.
7:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m.
8:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m,
9:00 a.m.to 5:00 p.m.
10:00 a.m.lo 6:00 p.m
Rest Periods:	One (I) fifteen (15) minute per shift (paid)
Lunch Period. One (1) thirty ( 30) minute per shift I pant)
45
K. I hree ( 3) shills per clay
Shill limes: Shift I -	7:00 a m. to 3:00 p.m,
Shill 2 -	3:00 p.m, to 1 1:00 p.m.
Shift 3 -	11:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m.
Rest Periods:	One (1) fifteen ( 15) minute per shift (paid)
Lunch Period:	One (I) thirty (30) minute per shift (paid)
F. Twelve ( 12) hours per day and thirty-six (36) hours per week, when three (3)shifts fall between 7 a.m. Sunday and 7 a m. the following Sunday or it will be twelve (12) hours per day and forty-eight (48) hours per week when four (4) shifts fall between 7 a.m. Sunday and 7 a.m. the following Sunday all in accordance with the printed schedule.
Shift Times: Day- 7:00 a,m, to 7:00 p.m.
Night- 7:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m.
Rest Periods:	One (I) fifteen (15) minute per shift (paid)
Lunch Periods:	Two (2) thirty (30) minute per shift (paid)
NOTE 1:
The timing of the rest periods in all departments are to be scheduled by the Company. An employee will normally take
46
his first break no earlier than 1 1 /2 hour and no later than 3 hours into his shift.
NOTE 2:
The present schedules are as follows:
A or B Plant Services, Materials Handling excluding Storeskeeper and Caretakers
C and D Not presently used
E Injection, Compression, Finishing, Quality Assurance, Storeskeeper and Caretakers
The Company reserves the right to alter any or all of the above
schedules by advising the employees in the department or job classification concerned and the Union at least seven (7) calendar days prior to the above shift schedules, unless a shorter period is mutually agreeable to the parties to this Agreement.
The shift schedules as set out in Article 21 may not be changed without a consultation meeting between management and (lie Union to discuss alternatives.
Where more than one shift in a department is outlined in this Agreement, Shift 2 and Shift 3 will he filled on a rotation basis if volunteers are not available. Rotations will not he longer than two (2) week intervals.
A new shift starting after 9 p.m, or ending be tore X a m shall include a paid thirty (30)minute lunch break
47
N OI K 3:
Notwithstanding the above for the life of this Collective Agreement, except by negotiation:
(,i) Injection, Compression, Quality Assurance, Storeskeeper, and Caretakers who are in the Company's employ as of July 17, 1978 will not be requested to work on a schedule that includes Saturday or Sunday as part of a regular schedule, other than the standard F shift as defined in this Agreement.
(b)	In all other departments, any personnel who are in the Company's employ as of July 17, 1978, will not be requested to work on a schedhde that includes Saturday or Sunday as part of a regular schedule.
21.03	Overtime hours are those worked in excess of the standard daily or weekly hours as listed in this Article. However, for the purpose of this Article only, overtime hours for Injection, Compression, Quality Assurance, Storeskeeper and Caretaker will be defined as those hours in excess of thirty-six (36) hours per week when three (3) shifts fall between 7 a.m. Sunday and 7 a.m. the following Sunday, or forty (40) hours per week when four (4)shifts fall between 7 a.m. Sunday and 7 a.m. the following Sunday.
21.04	Overtime will be paid at the rate of time and one half (1 '/:) the employee's regular rate for time worked in excess of regular weekly hours up to and including four (4) hours, except in the case of Sunday or Company recognized holiday where double time will apply. Time worked over four (4) hours in excess of regular weekly hours will be paid at two (2) times the
48
employee's regular rate. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the standard weekly hours must be worked subject to the provisions of 21.05.
Should an employee fail to complete his standard work week and that failure is not occasioned by the provisions of 21.05, then, the above overtime hours, beginning with those overtime hours in excess of four (4), shall be forfeited to make up the hours of the standard work week and the hours so forfeited shall be payable at the employee's regular rate.
For the purpose of this Article Sunday shall be:
Injection, Compression, Quality Assurance, Storeskeeper and Caretaker
From 7 a.m. Sunday to 7 a.m. Monday
All other departments
From 11 p.m. Saturday to 11 p.m. Sunday
21.05	Notwithstanding the provisions of 21,04 above, it is agreed tlial if an employee works in excess of their standard daily hours in any one (1) day and is subsequently prevented from completing his standard work week, overtime will be paid if that failure to complete is occasioned by:
(a)	Company layoff;
(b)	Illness, provided that the Company shall have the right to require validation of such illness;
(c)	Absence from work for reasonable cause;
(d)	A Company.recognised hoiida>,
(e)	With prior permission ofTompans,
(0 Lateness up to otic (I) hour
49
2 1.06 Fmploy ees are expected to cooperate and perform overtime sunk when requested to do so by the Company. However, no employee will he penalized if overtime is refused.
21.07 I he Company will endeavour to distribute overtime as fairly as possible.
2 1.08 The Company will endeavour to provide employees with at least forty-eight (48) hours notice before scheduling overtime hours.
When overtime extends two (2) hours or more beyond a regular shill, arid overtime notice is not given prior to the current shift, a Meal Allowance of $ 10.00 will be paid to employees. The same Meal Allowance will be made to an employee who has been contacted prior to their shift and asked to come to work three (3)hours or more earlier than their regular starting time.
21.09	employees are required to contact the Human Resources office or their shift supervisor before the start of their regular shift, if they do not expect to report to work, or at the latest within one (I ) hour after the start of their regular shift.
21.10	If an employee is sent home between midnight and 6 a.m. and does not have private transportation available, the Company will pay taxi fare to the employee's home.
21.11	For overtime work on production machine operations, overtime operators shall be permitted to change machines at the end of the regular daily shift provided that request is made prior to shift change and the operator is qualified to operate the alternate machine.
50
21.12	In cases of overtime as an extension of a normal work day, a paid fifteen (15) minute break will be provided at the beginning of the overtime and at the beginning of each two (2) hours worked thereafter.
21.13	If an employee is reassigned from the shift he would otherwise have been working on to a different shift the Company shall give seven (7) working days notice. This does not apply to changes resulting from switches with other employees, overtime, normal shift rotations, call-in, layoff, a change agreed to by the employee or emergencies which will critically affect the operation of the department involved.
21.14	Principles of Training Participation and Pay for Training
1.	, Training is a shared responsibility between the Company
and employee and both parties benefit from the training.
2.	Participation in training outside of normal working hours is voluntary except when training is primarily as required by legislation. Such training will be scheduled with the least disruption to the employee's personal time as possible.
Company Initiated Training
3.	An employee involved in training will be paid at the employee's regular hourly rate. Shift premiums will apply if the training occurs during the employee's normal "H" <>i "C" shift.
4.	Training provided for employees within the plant oi in Midland will be scheduled in the following ordei ol preleienee
51
a)	during regular shill
h)	within scheduled work week
f) beyond (lie scheduled work week
5.	In nil crises pay for Company initiated training shall be at straight time and time spent in training will not be considered time worked for overtime calculation providing that the combined hours spent in training and hours worked do not exceed six (6) hours over the regular scheduled work week in any one (I) week. In the event
that such combined hours exceeds the regular scheduled work week and the six (6) hours allowance, normal overtime rates will apply to hours in excess of the above.
6.	Where Company sponsored training takes place outside Midland (ie. Barrie, Toronto, Detroit, etc.)an employee may be required to travel on their own time, If such training takes place over a continuous number of days, the employee will normally be paid for eight (8) hours per day regardless of whether the training is longer or shorter than eight (8) hours per day.
Employee Initiated Courses
7.	Where an employee initiates participation in a course with potential work related benefit but also for their own personal upgrading and advancement, the employee will be advanced funds for tuition and books up front, If the employee shows proof of successful completion, the advance will be forgiven. If the course is not successfully completed, 50% of the advance will be forgiven and the other 50% will be repaid to the Company.
52
Time spent in the employee initiated courses will not be • paid. In order to be entitled for reimbursement there must be advance written approval by the Human Resources office. Determination of whether the course has work-related benefit will be the solejudgment of the Human Resources office.
ARTICLE 22 - EMPLOYEE BENEFITS
22.01	All full-time employees who qualify under the terms of the underwriters contracts shall become eligible for Company paid benefits on the first day following the fifty-fifth (55lh) day worked. A twelve (12) hour shill will be considered as one and a half (114) days worked for the purpose of seniority.
22.02	The Company will provide and pay the full cost of the following employee benefits for all eligible employees and eligible dependents as "defined" in the agreements or contracts between the Company and the Contract Holders. In the case of premium cost reduction on any Company paid benefits, the Company will receive the benefit of the decrease.
22.03	Schedule of Company paid benefits:
(a) Maritime Life Healthcare (formerly 1982 Blue Cross) including semi-private hospital and a one dollar ($1 00) deductible prescription drag provision (or equivalent coverage with another insurer), and including a $.100 oo per person annual Chiropractic benefit in insurer's standard terms.
5.1
(I)) Maritime Life (or equivalent) Dental Plan fixed at 1997 ()!)A until September 30, 2000. Fixed at 1998 ODA rates (ktober 1,2000 to September 30, 2001, fixed at 1999 ODA rates. Effective October 1, 200! to September 30, 2002, fixed at 2000 ODA rates October 1,2002 to September 30, 2003 and coverage will include 75% coverage for Root Canals and Dentures to a maximum of $ 1,000.00 per person each 36 month period.
Orthodontic coverage for employees and dependants under age eighteen (18) effective October I, 2001. Coverage will be 33% of actual expenditure to a life time maximum of $1000.00
(C) Group LiTe Insurance and Accidental Death and Dismemberment
(A.D. and D. Plan) to a maximum of $22,500.00 Optional Group Life will be provided at the employee's expense for employees. (Not portable)
(d) Sickness and Accidental Benefit '
(ij For compensable accidents the employee will
receive normal wages for remainder of shift on day of accident.
(U) In cases of non-compensable disability or sickness, the insuring Company, upon verification of continuous disability or illness, will reimburse the employee 66-2/3% of their basic rate of pay, beginning on the 1st day of accident or hospitalization, the 4th day of sickness, continuing to
54
the end of the 26th week. The three (3) day waiting period for the sickness benefit will be waived if the sickness lasts two (2) calendar weeks or more.
1(e) One thousand ($1,000.00) dollars, paid up Life Insurance upon retirement age 60, providing the retiring employee has at least fifteen (15) years continuous service with the Company.
(0 The Company will pay fire and theft insurance on
employee owned tools while on the Company premises. Coverage will be limited to the deductible and maximum rates and the scheduling requirements.
(g) Vision Care to a maximum of $ 100,00 per person every two (2) years effective October 1, 1997 ($150.00 effective October I, 2001).
Laser eye surgery will be paid up to $500.00 (life-lime maximum) for employees.
22.04	The Company provides a "Contributory" Pension Plan for all eligible employees. Pension benefits will be based on calendar years of service with employee contributions monthly (based on time worked) as follows:
<v<.
Years of Sen ice	Monthly Benefit per Year of Service	Employee Monthly Contribution
2IMM)	$30.00	$21.00
2001	$32.00	$22.00
j 2003	$34.00	$23.00
22.05	Benefits (excluding Pension) coverage during sickness, and injury: During periods of certified sick leave, the Company will pay the full cost of benefits for eligible employees for a minimum of two (2) full calendar months and amaximum of two (2) months of benefits for each year of service to a maximum of twelve (12) months.
Benefits during period of approved leave of absence will be continued for thirty (30) calendar days only.
Benefits during periods of compensable injury will be paid by the Company.
Notwithstanding all circumstances above, extension or continuation of benefit coverage shall be subject to the terms and conditions of the Contract Holder.
22.06	Employees should contact the Human Resources office to obtain the necessary application forms for Sickness and Illness Benefits. The Human Resources office will furnish, if necessary, claim application forms for any other employee benefit.
56
22.07	Benefits will terminate for employees who are laid off at the end of the month following the month of layoff Benefits will recommence at the date of rehire.
In the case of Healthcare and Dental benefits, these may be carried through the Company on a pay direct basis. for the duration of layoff, for a one (1) year period only.
Premiums for these benefits will be the responsibility of the
employee, who must make the appropriate arrangements through the Human Resources office. Premiums for the month in which a rehire occurs will be shared by the Company and the employee, pro-rated according to the number of days the employee was actually employed during the month of recall.
ARTICLE 23 - SAFETY ANI) HEALTH
23.01	The Company agrees to make reasonable provisions for the
safety and health of its employees during their working hours, and the Union agrees to cooperate in the observance of safely rules and regulations of the Company.
The Company agrees that the Safety Committee will meet monthly. A minimum of one (I) Union representative from each plant and one (1) Management representative shall lie certified members and that one (1) Union and one (I) Company Committee representative shall do a monthly safety inspection of all departments. This Committee will act in accordance null the Occupational Health and Safety Act of Ontario R.S O I'too in all matters pertaining to the health and safely ol emplo\ces for the duration of the Collective Agreement
57
23.02	I-inplosces with one ( I) year's seniority or more (or having completed probation alter September 19, 2001)who are required to wear safety footwear will be allowed a subsidy of a maximum of'two (2) pair of safety shoes i n any one (I) year period as follows:
The Company will pay the 100% cost of the firstpair of safety shoes up to a maximum of seventy ($70.00)dollars (ninety ($90.00)dollars, effective September 19, 2001), and the cost of a second pair up to a maximum of forty ($40.00) dollars ( fifty ($50.00)dollars, effective September 19,2001) or 50% of the purchase price, whichever is the lesser.
The Company will provide one (I) pair of prescription safety glasses per year, where required, to each employee. Design and supplier to be designated by the Company.
ARTICLE 24 - NOTIFICATION
24.02	Except as otherwise provided, any notices which either party desires to give the other shall be given by registered mail.
(a)	To the Company:
Waltec Plastics Inc.
320 Elizabeth Street MIDLAND, Ontario L4R 4L6
(b)	To the Union:
58
UNITE Ontario Council 15 Gervais Drive, Suite 700 DON MILLS, Ontario M3C 1Y8
(c)	To the President, UNITE, Local 1476 Currently
MIDLAND, Ontario
ARTICLE 25 - DURATION AND TERMINATION
25.01	This Agreement shall be considered-effective from September 20, 2000 to September [_9, 2003 inclusive, and shall automatically continue thereafter for annual periods of one (1) year each, unless either party notifies the other in writing within the period of ninety (90)calendar days before the date of expiry that it desires to amend or terminate the Agreement, and negotiations shall start within fifteen (15) calendar days following such notification.
25.02	If the parties enter into negotiations for the purpose of amending this Agreement and agreement to the renewal of amendment of this Agreement is not reached prior to the normal termination date hereof, the termination of this Agreement shall be automatically extended until consummation of a new Agreement or completion of the conciliation proceedings prescribed under the Labour Relations Act. 1980 of the Province of Ontario, and fourteen (14) calendar da\ s follow mg issuance of the Conciliation Boards report thereunder (il an> I. whichever should occur first
This instrument and the exhibits attached hereto and made p.ut hereof constitute the entire agreement between the panics
S'*
IN \M INI SS WHF.HFOK each of ihc parties hereto has caused this Auteement to he signed h) their duly authorized representatives as of this ilas ol ’	, 2000 .
FOR WALTEC PLASTICS INC.
.1 DESJARDINS, EMPLOYEE RELATIONS COORDINATOR
A.MUDDE, PRESIDENT
D WEBSTER, CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER
P. BURT, H.R. SYSTEMS AND PAYROLL COORDINATOR
B. DUTTON, VICE PRESIDENT OF MANUFACTURING
60
FOR UNITE ONTARIO COUNCIL AND LOCAL 1476
B. ZAHREBELNY, PRESIDENT
J. RYAN, VICE PRESIDENT
R. MURPHY, SERGEANT-AT-ARMS
T. GUTHRIE, NEGOTIATING MEMBER
A.BERGIE, NEGOTIATING MEMBER FOR UNITE ONTARIO COUNCIL
B J. CARDY, REGIONAI Rlil'RESEN IA I IV'I
<<!
\va(;f appendix
I lie starling rale (or an employee who has changed classification shall be the next rate level lower than their current rate level, except where the employee had previously attained the top rate for their new classification. In no instance will the employee receive any lower rate when moving to a higher classification.
The wage progression effective September20, 1999, as a % of the top rate for each classification shall be:
on hiring	88%
after4 months worked	92%
alter 9 months worked	97%
alter 12 months worked	100%
On September 20, 1999, no employee will have their rate reduced as a result of implementing this revised wage progression.
62
APPENDIX "A"
WAGE SCHEDULE
SEPTEMBER 20,2000 - SEPTEMBER 19,2001
		4	9	12
	HIRING	MONTHS	MONTHS	MONTHS
Compression Operator	12.64	13.21	13.93	14.36
Tech. Grade 3	13.16	13.76	14.51	14.96
Tech. Grade 2	14.28	14.93	15.74	16.23
Tech. Grade I	15.48	16.18	17.06	17.59
Team Leader				18.62
Coordinator'				19.88
Finisher	12.51	13.08	13.79	14.22
Silkscreener	12.76	13.34	14.07	14.50
Tech. Grade 3	13.1 I	13.71	14.45	14.90
Tech. Grade 2	13.59	14.20	14.98	15.44
Tech. Grade I	14.56	15.22	16.04	16.54
Team Leader				17.57
Spray Painter 3	12.51	13.08	13.79	14.22
Spray Painter 2	12.64	13.21	1 3.93	14 30
Spray Painter I	13.04	13.63	14 38	14 82
Injection Operator	12.51	13.08	1.3.70	14 22
Grinding Tech	13.16	13.76	14 51	14 oi,
Tech. Grade 3	13 16	1 3 7n	14 S|	14 no
Storeskeeper	14 07	N 71	1' M	1 < • i<»
, l
	HIKING	4 MON TIB	9 MONTHS	12 MONTHS
1 cell (iriulc 2	14.28	14.93	15.74	16.23
1 cell, Grade 1	15.48	16.18	17.06	17.59
I'cam l eader				18.62
Process Improvement lech.				18.98
Stockhandler 2	12.91	13.50	14.23	14.67
Stockhandler I	12.91	13.50	14.23	14.67
Stockhandler Team Leader				15.69
Coordinator				17.06
Caretaker	12.51	13.08	13.79	14.22
I lead Caretaker	12.99	13.58	14.32	14.76
Tech. Grade 3	13.60	14.22	15.00	15.46
Tech. Grade 2	14.49	15.15	15.98	16.47
Tech. Grade I	16.42	17.17	18.10	18,66
vlaintenance Team ^eader				19.69
Maintenance Coordinator				21.59
Toolmaker Assistant	13.58	14.20	14.97	15.43
Toolmaker Grade 3	16.08	16.81	17.72	18.27
Toolmaker Grade 2	17.10	17.88	18.85	19.43
Toolmaker Grade 1	19.82	20.72	21.84	22.52
64
	HIRING	4 MONTHS	— 9 MONTHS	12 MONTHS
Toolmaker Team Leader				23.55
Toolmaker Coordinator				24.96
Q.A. Tech. Grade 3	12.79	13.37	14.09	14.53
Q.A. Tech Grade 2	14.05	14.69	15.49	15.97
Q.A. Tech 1	14.51	l %	$418	Ml.
				\i% '
Team Leader				
		J		
<»>
APPENDIX "I?"
WAGE SCHEDULE
	HIRING	4 MONTHS	9 MONTHS	12 MONTHS
ConipressinnjQperator	12.94	13.52	14.26	14,70
1 cch Grade 3	13.48	14.09	14.86	15.32
I cell. Grade 2	14.63	15.29	16.12	16.62
l ech. Grade l	15.85	16,57	17.47	18.01
I earn Leader				19.07
Coordinator				20.36
Finisher	12.81	13 40	14.12	14.56
Silkscreener	13.07	13.66	14.40	14.85
l ech. Grade 3	13.43	14.04	14.80	15.26
Tech. Grade 2	13.91	14.55	15.34	15.81
Tech. Grade 1	14.91	15.58	16.43	16.94 ,
Team Leader				17.99
SDrav Painter 3	12,81	13.40	14.12	14.56
Spray Painter 2	13.16	13.75	14.50	14.95
Spray Painter 1	13.58	14.20	14,97	15.43
Injection Operator	12.81	13.40	14.12	14.56
Grinding Tech	13,48	14,09	14,86	15,32
Tech. Grade 3	13.48	14,09	14.86	15.32
66
	HIRING	4 MONTHS	9 MONTHS	12 MONTHS
Storeskeeper	14.41	15.06	15.88	16.37
Tech. Grade 2	14.63	15.29	16.12	16.62
Tech. Grade I	15.85	16.57	17.47	18.01
Team Leader				19.07
Process Improvement Tech.				19.44
Stockhandler2	13.39	14.00	14.76	15.22
Stockhandler 1	13.39	14.00	14.76	15.22
Stockhandler Team Leader				16.27
Coordinator				17.67
Caretaker	12.81	13.40	14.12	14.56
Head Caretaker	13.30	13.90	14.66	15.1 1
Tech. Grade 3	13.93	14.56	15.36	15.83
Tech. Grade 2	14.85	15.52	16.36	16 87
Tech. Grade I	16.82	17.58	18.54	in I I
Maintenance Team Leader				2(1 in
Maintenance Coordinator				22 I
Toolmaker Assistant	13 no	14 54	15 33	h Mi
	HIRING	4 MONTHS	9 MONTHS	MONT1 IS
1 oolmakcr Grade 3	16.46	17.21	18.15	18.71
1 oolmakcr Grade 2	17.5 I	18.31	19.30	19.90
Toolmaker (irade I	20.29	21.22	22.37	23.06
I oolmaker Team Leader				24.12
Toolmaker CoOrdinator				25.56
Q.A. l ech Grade 3	13.09	13.69	14.43	14.88
0. A. Tech Grade 2	14.39	15.04	15.86	16.35
0. A. Tech Grade 1	14.86	15.54	16.38	16.89
Team Leader				17.94
68
APPENDIX “C”
WAGE SCHEDULE
September 20, 2002 - September 19. 2003
	HIRING	4 MONTHS	9 MONTHS	12 MONTHS
Compression Operator	13.21	13.81	14.56	15.01
Tech Grade 3	13.76	14.39	15.17	15.64
Tech Grade 2	14.93	15.61	16.46	16.97
Tech Grade 1	16.18	16.92	17.84	18.39
Team Leader				19.47
Coordinator				20.79
Finisher	13.09	13.68	14.42	14.87
Silkscreener	13.34	13.95	14.71	15 16
‘Tech. Grade 3	13.71	14.33	15.11	15.58
Tech Grade 2	14.20	14.85	15.66	16.14
Tech Grade 1	15.22	15.92	16.78	17.31)
Team Leader				18 37
Spray Painter 3	13.09	13 68	14.42	14 ti7
Spray Painter 2 .	13.65	14 27	15.04	I'M
Spray Painter I	14.08	14 72	r- i vrt CO 1—1	Ki no
Injection Operator	13 09	11 68	14 42	14 87

	HIKING	4 MONTHS 14.39 14.39	MONTHS	— MONTHS
Grinding 'I cell I cell, Grade 3	13.76 13.76		15,17	15,64
			15,17	15,64
Storeskeeper	14,70	15,37	16.21	16,71
Tech, Grade 2	14,93	15,61	l 16.46 , 16.97	
Tech Grade 1	16,18	16.92	17.84	18.39
Team Leader				19.47
Process Improvement Tech,				19.85 ;
Stockhandler 2	13,85	14,48	15,27	15,74
Stockhandler I	13,85	14.48	15,27 ' 15,74	
Stockhandler T earn Leader			I , 16.81	
Coordinator			1 18.24	
Caretaker	13,09	13,68	14.42 , 14.87 t	
Tead Caretaker	13,58	14,20	1 14.97 , 15.43	
Tech, Grade 3	14,22	14,87	15.68	16.16
Tech, Grade 2	15,15	15,84	16,70	17,22
Tech. Grade 1	17.17	17.95	18,92	19,51
Vlaint. Team Leader				20.58
Vlaint. Coordinator				22.57
70
	HIRING	MONTHS	MONTHS	12 MONTHS
Toolmaker Assistant	14.19	14.84	15,65	16.13
Toolmaker Grade 3	16.81	17.57	18.53	19.10
Toolmaker Grade 2	17,88	18.69	19.71	20,32
Toolmaker Grade 1	20.72	21.66	22,83	23,54
Toolmaker Team Leader				24.63
Toolmaker Coordinator				26.10
0. A. Tech. Grade 3	13.37	13.97	14.73	15.19
Q. A. Tech Grade 2	14.69	15.35	16.19	16.69
Q. A. Tech Grade l	15.17	15.86	16,72	17.24
Team Leader				18.32
NOTE 1: Length of service for Technicians and Toolmakers for
purposes of wage schedule is dated from appointment to their classification and not length of service with Company. Persons in these categories must spend minimum of time in each grade according to the requirements before being tested for reclassification.
Employees transferred in a technical position will receive I he top rate of the classification upon successfully compleimg their exams
7|
NOll 2: I ethnic ians. I oolmakers nr other persons, will, while on a shill not covered by a department supervisor or team leader receive $1 00 per hour above their schedule rates, if assigned supervisor responsibility on that shift.
NOTE 3: A stock handler driving a single axle truck beyond a radius of twenty-five (25) kilometres from Midland will receive 7% premium above their schedule rate for those hours.
NO T E 4: Employee's writing technical exams shall be paid straight
time hourly rate for the time prescribed for the test which will be after or before regular hours.
NOTE 5: Spray painters, while wearing pressurized painting suits, will receive fifty ($0.50)cents per hour premium above the schedule rates for that shift,
NOTE 6: Toolmaker Apprentices will he compensated for hours worked as a percentage of the Toolmaker Grade 1 rate as follows:
On Hiring After 1 year After 2 years After 3 years Upon certification
50%
60%
70%
80%
100%
NOTE 7: Students will be paid at 75% of the scheduled rates.
72
APPENDIX “C”
LETTER OF INTENT
In the event of termination resulting from a plant closure or relocation or a permanent closure of a department, an employee who has completed more than three (3) years of service and who is terminated, will receive a separation allowance based on his/her regular hourly rate as follows:
One (1) week of pay per year of service. Payment will be made within thirty (30) days unless otherwise agreed.
The Employment Standards Act, as updated from time to time, shall be used to determine the conditions and restrictions, except as referred to in this letter.
71
APPENDIX "I)"
INJECTION DEPARTMENT - WEEK-END SHIFTS
I lie technicians, on a voluntary basis, work weekends under the lullowing conditions:
I.	"A Shift”
II p.m. Thursday 11 p.m. Friday 11 p.m. Saturday
”B Shift”
7 a.m, Friday II a.m. Saturday 11 a.m. Sunday
8 hours 12 hours 12 hours
3 p.m. Friday II a.m. Saturday II a.m. Sunday
II p.m.	Friday	8 hours
11 p.m.	Saturday	12 hours
1 I p.m.	Sunday	12 hours
2.	Technicians are paid for forty (40)hours work each week with a 6% night shift premium for "A" shift and at a 2% premium for "B" shift (no Saturday or Sunday rates applicable). C.O.L.A. is paid for forty (40) hours. Supervision rates paid for twenty-four (24) hours per week.
3.	Holidays for Technicians are to be given by eliminating the eight (8) hour Friday shift for that week.
4.	'There are no mould changes or setups required. The shifts run machines already setup with a view to obtaining the maximum number of parts. The Technician's responsibilities include considerable part quality checks to ensure that only good parts are produced.
5.	The duration of this shift for technicians is no more than eight (8) consecutive weeks at one time.
74
Conditions of work for operators:
1.	When two (2) twelve (12) hour shifts are worked they shall be as follows:
"A Shift”		
11 p.m, Friday	11 a.m. Saturday	12 hours
11 p.m, Saturday ,	11 a.m. Sunday	12 hours
"B Shift"		
11 a.m. Saturday	11 p.m. Saturday	12 hours
11 a.m.Sunday	11 p.m. Sunday	12 hours
2.	The work week for employees who have seniority on a regular forty (40) hour shift, employed on these week-end shifts, will be thirty-two (32) hours consisting of two (2) twelve (12) hour weekend shifts and one (1) eight (8)hour shift. The eight (8)hour shift will be one (I) of the regular forty (40) hour shifts as determined by management on a call-in basis. During this shift the employee will work as an operator or any other reasonable required work.
3.	The work week for employees who do not have seniority on a regular forty (40) hour shift, employed on these weekend shifts will he twenty-four (24) hours consisting of two (2) twelve (12) hour weekend shifts, or sixteen (16) hours, consisting of two (2) eight (8) hour shifts.
4.	The operators are paid at their regular rates with a 6% night shilt premium for "A" shift and at a 2% premium lor "B" slntt tno Saturday or Sunday rates will he applicable), and regular shilt tales for the shift worked during the week.
5.	An employee who is sw itching, I'rum any oilier shift to the weekend shill shall has e at least twelve (12) hours o IT between the end of work on the other shift to the start of work on the weekend shift and the C ompany may assign employees to start at either I I p.m, or 11 .a.m. 11 the employee has not had at least twelve (12) hours off, he shall be paid at the overtime rate until twelve (12) hours have elapsed except where the employee so requests.
(General
1.	On each twelve (I 2) hour shift there will be:
• one (I) tifteen (15)minute rest period (paid)
- two (2) thirty (30)minute lunch periods (paid)
2.	For purposes of building up seniority, each eight (8) hours worked will count as one ( I ) day, provided at least twenty-four (24) hours are worked on the weekend.
3.	Company recognized holidays, if eligible under the provisions of the contract, will be paid at eight (8)hours.
4.	Each shift will normally consist of one (1) technician, Grade 1 or 2, plus three (3) operators running four (4)machines.
76
REQUESTS FOR VACATIONS
Requests for the 3rd, 4th, 5th week of vacation will be handled through the employee's Supervisor as follows, ifmutual consent between parties cannot be reached:
1.	The Company may determine the number of employees who may be away from any classification/department at any one time.
2.	Prior to April 1 st, seniority will determine the vacation priority.
3.	After March 31 st, vacation priority will be determined on a first come basis.
In all cases acknowledgment of vacation requests will be given within five (5) scheduled shifts.
AGREEMENT ON POLICY
Policy for pay:
(a)	Shortage in wages will be corrected by issuing a cheque or if the amount is small, immediately advancing the estimated “NET PAY" out of Petty Cash funds. Any advance will be deducted from the next week's pay, at which time the shortage will also be corrected. In the event of an employee's oversight the shortage will be adjusted on the next pay.
(b)	Regular pay for the 3-11 and 11-7 shifts will be distributed mi the Wednesday shift, the remainder of the employees vs ill rccci\ e their pay cheque on their Thursday shill. I tMonday is a holiday, all employees will be paid during their shiti commencing on Thursday.
77
LETTER OF AGREEMENT
Re: Ilenefil Administration
I here vs ill be a Joint Benefits Committee. Management Representatives shall meet with the (Inion Representatives as required to discuss issues arising mil ot administration of the benefit plans.
LETTER OF AGREEMENT Re: Spray Painting
For the term of this Agreement, to be entitled to bump into the Spray Painting department, an employee must have previously demonstrated his ability to satisfactorily perform in that department.
‘I he Company shall notify employees that they have an opportunity to demonstrate their ability provided that they have signed up priorto four(4) months before a layoff notice. New employees shall have such opportunity alter six (6)months of employment.
The employee shall be paid at straight time rates for time spent in such demonstration provided that if such time is outside of his regular working hours it shall not be deemed to be hours worked for the purpose of overtime calculation.
The operation of this letter shall be reviewed every six (6) months.
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
The Union acknowledges that the Company may require a medical examination by a Company approved Doctor or Doctor of Chiropractic on hiring or transfers between departments.
78
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING RE: PAY FOR UNION REPRESENTATIVES
The appropriate Union Representatives will be paid for regular scheduled working hours lost on the following business:
1.	For negotiating meetings with management to a maximum of eight (8) hours per day.
2.	For grievance or discipline meetings as in Article 6.06, and for all other meetings called by management.
If such a meeting takes place outside an employee's normal working hours he shall be paid at straight time rates but that time shall not be counted as hours worked.
EARLY RETIREE HEALTHCARE COVERAGE
An employee who retires early after at least fifteen (15) years service and age 60 shall be entitled to participate in the Company Healthcare Plan at their expense to age 65.
LETTER OF AGREEMENT
The parties hereby agree tojointly explore models of pay for skills The purpose is to assess possible ways of more apprupi lately encouraging and rewarding individual initiative arid effort.
LETTER OF AGREEMENT
The parties hereby agree to jointly woik on a sy stem I'm anmi.il employ ee reviews. The purpose is to ensure that indiv idu.ils .ire piopcil> el.i-.Mlied.
\
Icedbai k is yi\cn ;iml ituliviilual I'uUire training and development is considered
LETTER OF AGREEMENT Re: O.H.I.F.
II during the life of this Collective Agreement, the Ontario Government repeals (he Employer Health Tax and enacts legislation permitting employers and employees to share the cost of health insurance premiums, it is agreed that the Company will pay the full cost of such premiums necessary to maintain the basic level of health insurance provided by the Employer Health Tax.
LETTER OF AGREEMENT Re: Military Service
If an employee is conscripted to active Canadian Military service or required while on active reserves duty the employee will retain existing seniority for a period up to, but not exceeding the seniority before entering active military service. Upon release from military service, the Company will provide, to an employee who retains seniority, an employment opportunity if:
1.	A job similar to the one vacated on conscription presently filled by a lesser seniority employee exists.
2.	The employee is able and willing to perform thejob.
80
LET TER OF UNDERST4
The Company agrees, where practical and cost effective, to give preference to apparel made by Canadian, Union - Made suppliers.
ER OF UNDERST INDIH
In the interest of improving technical training and skills upgrading, the parties
agree to meet to improve the process.
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING “EARLY RETIREMENT
BENEFIT”
An employee who retires early will see their Company pension as follows for ages:
Age 64	95% of regular pension
Age 63	90% of regular pension
Age 62	85% of regular pension
Age 61	80% of regular pension
Age 60	75% of regular pension
LETT ER ()F Ar;REEMENT
Volunteer fire-fighters will be paid 50% of lost wages lor lime misted Irmn then regular scheduled shift when responding to a commuml) emergent)
XI
RENEWED LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING re: SELECTION ................. C OMMITI EF.
(Agreed upon hut will noi he in the Collective Agreement )
RENEWED: LETTER OF AGREEMENT re: WORKER’S COMPENSATION
( Agreed upon but will not be in the Collective Agreement )