COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
	fo			
	9¥			26
!L.term. ;	?7		M	M
IJho. OF ' TJMHbYEES				
|B96>,'-OyiS		i-		
Ealtada Inc
UNITED RUBBER, CORK, LINOLEUM AND PLASTIC WORKERS OF AMERICA LOCAL 664
Expiry date; March 25,1997
NGv.~ 4^984
INDEX
ARTICLE
1	— Purpose........................
2	— Recognition....................
3 — Discrimination............*.....
4	— Management Rights..............a!
5	— Union Security.................
6	— No Strike or Lock-Out..........
7	— Representation.................
8	— Grievance Procedure............
9	— Arbitration....................
10	— Seniority.....................
11 — Leave of Absence.........a.....
12	— Bulletin Board................
13	— Wages...................*.....
14	— Hours Worked and Overtime.....
15	— Plant Holidays................
16	— Vacations ....................
17	— Shift Premium.................
18	— Welfare.......................
19	— Pension Plan..................
20	— Health and Safety.............
21	— Duration......................
Schedule “A” (Wage Rates)...........
Appendix “A” (Letters)..............
Appendix "B" (Safety and Health)....
PAGE
..... 1
.....1
..... 2
.....2
.....3
....4
.....5
....6
.....7
.....8
.... 14
16
*.. 16
... 17
....20
....21
....23
.. 23
....26
....28
....28
31
35
39
BETWEEN
FOAMEX Canada Inc. Metropolitan Toronto (hereinafter referred to as “the Company”).
AND
UNITED RUBBER, CORK LINOLEUM AND PLASTIC WORKERS OF AMERICA, LOCAL 664 (hereinafter referred to as “the Union”).
Article 1 PURPOSE
1.0	1 It is the mutual desire of both parties to promote cooperation and harmony, and to provide an amicable method of settling any differences or grievances which may arise.
Article 2
RECOGNITION
2.01	(a) The Company recognizes the Union as the sole and exclusive bargaining agent for all its employees at its plants within Metropolitan Toronto or a seventy-five (75) mile radius of Toronto City Hall, whichever is greater; save and except supervisors, persons above the rank of supervisors and office and sales staff.
(b)	In this agreement wherever the pronoun “HE” or “HIS” is used, it shall be construed to mean any employee, male or female.
1
Article 3
DISCRIMINATION
3.01	There shall be no discrimination or intimidation of any sort practiced by the Company by reason of any activity, past or future, of any employee with or in respect to membership or activity in the Union.
3.02	The Company shall not by any means, directly or indirectly persuade or influence, or attempt to persuade or influence, any employee against membership or activity in the Union.
3.03	Neither the Company nor the Union shall discriminate against any employee on account of race, colour, creed, national origin, age or sex.
3.04	There shall be no intimidation, interference, restraint or coercion exercised or practiced upon any employee by the Union, or by any of its members or representatives and there shall be no union activity, solicitation for membership or collection of dues on company time and no meetings on company premises except with the permission of the Company.
Article 4
MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
4.01	The Union acknowledges that it is the exclusive function of the Company to:
(a)	maintain order, discipline and efficiency
(b)	hire, retire, discharge, suspend, discipline, transfer, classify promote or demote employees; increase or decrease the working force, assign employees to shifts; provided however that any action taken by the Company with respect to discharge, suspension or discipline shall be for reasonable cause;
2
(c)	generally manage the industrial enterprise in which the Company is engaged and without restricting the generality of the foregoing, to determine the number and location of it plants, the products to be manufactured, the services to be supplied, the methods of operation and production, the schedules of production, the kinds and locations of tools and machines to be used, the process of manufacturing and assembling, the delivering and servicing of its products, the determination of work standards, the determination of quality standards, and the control of material and parts to be used in its products;
(d)	establish and promulgate reasonable plant rules and regulations, and such rules will be discussed with the union committee prior to their implementation.
4.02	The exercise by the Company of the functions set forth in Section 4.0 1 shall be subject to other applicable provisions of this Agreement and shall not be inconsistent with them.
Article 5
UNION SECURITY
5.01	All present employees and all employees hired hereafter will be required to become members of the Union, and to maintain their membership for the duration of this agreement and any renewal or extension thereof. All present and future employees in the bargaining unit shall be required to sign dues deduction authorization forms which shall be irrevocable for the duration of this agreement and any renewal or extension thereof.
5.02	The Company will deduct regular monthly dues as fixed by the International Constitution starting in the month following the date of hire. The first deduction shall be double the regular dues to cover new member fees. The Union will notify the Company in writing of any changes in the amount of the regular dues.
— 3 —
5.03	The Company will promptly remit the dues to the Treasurer of Local 664 U.R.C.L. and P.W.A. within fifteen (15) days of the date of deduction accompanied by the following information:
(a)	from whose pay deductions have been made and the amount.
(b)	from whose pay no deductions have been made and the reason why no deductions have been made.
(c)	those who have left the employ of the Company.
(d)	the properly filled out check-off certification form supplied by the Union will be sent with the first dues Payments of new members.
(e)	a properly filled out dues deduction form as supplied by the Union to be sent with the first dues payments of new members.
(f)	a properly filled out application for membership card as supplied by the union to be sent with the first dues payments of new members.
5.04	The Union will save the Company harmless in respect of all deductions and remittances made pursuant to this article.
Article 6
NO STRIKE OR LOCK-OUT
6.01	The Union and its members, individually and collectively, undertake that neither will cause, authorize or take part in any strike, work stoppage, sit down, slowdown or any other collective activity which will restrict, limit or interfere with the operations of the Company or the manufacturing of its products during the term of this agreement. The Company agrees that there will be no lock-out of its employees during
— 4 —
the term of this agreement.
Article 7
REPRESENTATION
7.01	The Company will recognize a negotiating committee consisting of four (4) employees, one of whom will be chairman. The Company will also recognize a maximum of twelve (12) stewards to represent employees in designated zones. The Union will notify the Company in writing of the names of the negotiating committee and any stewards and of any changes thereto as they occur.
7.02	It is recognized that a steward (or until such time as stewards are appointed, a committeeman) may be from time to time required to investigate or process a grievance but he shall, under no circumstances, leave his regular duties for this purpose without first obtaining the permission of his supervisor and giving such reasonable explanation as is required of him. He shall report back to his supervisor before resuming his regular duties. The steward or committeeman as the case may be, shall suffer no loss of pay in respect of such absence, provided he has complied with any condition laid down relevant thereto by his supervisor, and provided that the duration of his absence is not unreasonably long in the circumstances obtaining.
7.03	An employee who is being disciplined must request the presence of a Union Steward at the time of a disciplinary
meeting.
7.04	When a Union Steward is not available for a disciplinary meeting, the Union President, or other designated officer must be required to attend.
7.05	The Union President shall not be required to work on any shift other than the day shift except with his consent.
— 5 —
Article 8
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
8.01	An employee with a complaint must, accompanied by a steward, first discuss it with his supervisor and give the latter an opportunity to settle it. If the supervisor’s disposition of the complaint is not satisfactory to the employee, the following procedure will be followed:
8.02	Step No 1
If the supervisor’s disposition of the complaint is not satis-
ing satisfactory resolution by the department head, the complaint will be committed to writing as a grievance and signed in triplicate by the employee and steward. The original shall be presented in such written form to the department head with a copy to Personnel and a copy to be retained by the Union, within ten (10) working days of the cause of the grievance. The department head shall give his reply in writing within two (2) working days after the grievance has been received by him.
Step No 2
Failing settlement the grievance will be submitted within two
(2)	working days after receipt of the supervisor’s written reply to the Plant Manager, or a person nominated by the Company management, who will convene a meeting of the Union and Company representative within three (3) working days, from the date of the submission of the grievance (or at other mutually agreed upon time) to discuss the grievance. An International Representative of the Union may be present at this stage. The Plant Manager, or a person nominated by the Company management will render the Company’s decision
6
in writing with reasons being given within five (5) working days from the date of the meeting.
8.03	A claim by an employee with seniority that he has been discharged or suspended without reasonable cause shall be treated as a grievance if a written statement to that effect is lodged with the Company within three (3) working days after the employee ceases to work. The preliminary steps of the grievance procedure will be eliminated in such cases and the procession of the grievance will commence with Step No 2. A discharged employee will be allowed a brief interview with a steward before he is required to leave the Company’s premises.
8.04	The Company agrees to advise the President or in his absence the Vice-President when employees are disciplined, discharged, suspended, transferred, recalled, laid-off, reclassified or promoted to another job. Such information will be given to the President, or in his absence the Vice-President, in writing at the time the employee is informed or immediately afterwards.
Article 9
ARBITRATION
9.01	Failing settlement of a grievance under the procedure set forth in Article 8, the grievance may be submitted to arbitration provided written notification to that effect is given within twenty-five (25) working days after receipt of the decision of the Plant Manager, or person nominated by the Company Management. A Board of arbitration shall be established as provided under Section 45 of the Ontario Labour Relations Act (1980). The parties recognize the arbitration provision under Section 46 of the Ontario Labour Relations Act (1980) and that either party may pursue the requirements of that legislation and comply with its provisions as set out therein.
7
9.02	The arbitration board shall have no power to alter or amend any of the provisions of this agreement, or to substitute any new provisions for existing provisions, or to give any decision inconsistent with the provisions of this agreement.
9.03	An arbitration board established to deal with a discharge grievance, may resolve the issue by confirming the Company’s action, or by reinstating the employee with full or partial compensation for time lost, or by any other arrangement which it deems to be just and equitable in the circumstances.
9.04	No person may be nominated to a board of arbitration
who has, directly or indirectly, attempted to negotiate or settle the grievance in dispute.
9.05	The fee and expenses of the chairman of the arbitration board shall be shared equally by the parties.
Article 10 SENIORITY
10.01	An employee will be considered probationary and will not acquire seniority until he has worked for the Company for a total of sixty (60) scheduled days and must work the complete daily schedule which must be aggregated within a six (6) month period. The employee’s seniority date will be the date of hire.
(a)	A Company paid medical will be taken before Company seniority is attained.
(b)	Employees, who are hired as students and identified as students shall not acquire seniority. At the discretion of management, such employees may become full-time employees if openings occur and will gain seniority from the last continuous starting date. He shall be credited (c)
with such seniority after completing a sixty (60) working day probationary period as explained in this article.
(c)	A full time employee’s pay rate shall move from “entry level” to the maximum job rate of the Job Class that he is assigned to after he has worked for the Company for a total of sixty (60) scheduled work days. A student employee’s pay rate shall remain at the “entry level” for the duration that he is identified as a student.
10.02	Seniority will be based on service with the Company and will apply on a plant-wide basis except in relation to layoffs and recalls when it will apply on a group basis.
10.03	For the purpose of applying seniority, there will be two (2) groups:
GROUP 1 - SKILLED MAINTENANCE GROUP 2 - OTHER EMPLOYEES
which will be divided into thirteen (13) classes as follows:
10.04	In the event that an employee is permanently transferred from Group 1 to Group 2 or vice versa, his seniority as far as its group application is concerned, will cease to apply within his former group and will apply immediately in the group to which he has been transferred.
10.05	(a) Lay-offs and recalls shall be by group. Lay-offs shall be made in reverse order of seniority within the group and class affected. The following procedures will be followed:
CLASS 1 CLASS 2 CLASS 3 CLASS 4 CLASS 5 CLASS 6
9 —
(1)	probationary employees will be laid off first.
(2)	employees with the least plant seniority in the classification affected will be laid off.
(3)	if such employee has more plant seniority than employees in other classifications and if qualified to perform the job, he may displace those employees. Such employees may displace a junior employee in a higher class if he has previously held such a job or accumulated thirty (30) working days on such job, otherwise he may only displace those in the same class or lower classes.
(4)	if an employee exercises seniority rights in the above manner and is capable of performing the job, such employee will not be laid off.
(5)	for a lay off of not more than thirteen (13) weeks, no displacement of employees between the Evans Avenue and Fordhouse locations shall be permitted, except for employees who have more than three (3) years service, as well as the necessary qualifications as outlined in 10.05
(a)	(3). Should employees laid off not be recalled within thirteen (13) weeks, they shall then exercise their seniority and displace the junior employees as per Article 10.05 (2).
When the Company is recalling employees and no answer is received, a Union officer or designated employee will be notified to be present when the next call is made. Laid-off employees shall be recalled before new employees are hired provided they have the necessary skill and ability to perform the work available.
(b)	Subject to the provisions of this agreement at such time
or times as the Company recalls the working force so laid off, the same procedure as described above shall be followed with respect to a lay-off except that the employees shall be recalled in reverse order of lay-off, subject to the capability of the
— 10 —
employee to do the particular job, and the employees shall return to their classification of work within the group in accordance with their seniority. During periods of lay-off before the Company hires new employees, they will first offer any vacancy to seniority employees who are laid off and have the ability to perform the work. If all employees on lay-off refuse such vacancy, the Company may hire new employees. Employees on lay-off shall have the right to refuse recall on jobs other than in the classification within the department in which their seniority applies. In the case of recall, laid-off or displaced employees may be assigned available work immediately but must be returned to their previous job at the first shift change.
(c)	The Union will be notified of persons to be laid off or to be recalled.
(d)	The Company shall notify an employee no later than the midpoint of the shift two (2) working days prior to the day no work is available. Excepting the midnight shift employees who would be advised at the start of the shift prior to the day no work is available.
10.06	(a) Promotional opportunities of a permanent nature (that is of anticipated duration of more than thirty (30) calendar days) will be posted for three (3) working days on the plant’s bulletin boards. A copy of the job posting will be given to the Union within one (1) working day from the date of posting. Absences due to vacation or a leave of absence for less than three (3) months shall not create vacancies for the purpose of administering this section.
(b)	Application, which shall be in writing, must be made within three (3) working days. Applications will be considered primarily on the basis of skill, ability and qualifications, and as among two or more applicants who are relatively equal in that respect, seniority will govern.
(c)	The successful applicant will be personally notified prior
— 11 —
to plant wide posting within three (3) working days after the expiry date of the job posting. Such employee will be placed on the job no later than five (5) working days from the date of such posting and/or paid the rate of the job, unless the job is not available due to circumstances outside management’s control and explained to the union. In addition, the Union President will be notified of the successful and all unsuccessful applicants.
(d)	The successful applicant will be given a probationary period of
1.	thirty (30) working days if the job is with group 2.
This probationary period may be extended by mutual agreement of the parties in cases where an additional short period of time would be advantageous to the employee and the Company.
2.	six (6) months if the job is within group 1
(e)	A successful applicant may not apply for any further promotional opportunity for a period of six (6) months.
(f)	In the event that an employee, transferred as the result of the provisions of this section, becomes in the opinion of the Company, unsuccessful in his new position during the probationary period, he shall be returned to his former position and have bidding rights restored.
If an employee wishes to return to his former position during the probationary period, he will be allowed to do so with proper notification to the supervisor. The said employee may not apply for any further promotional opportunity for a period of three (3) months from the start date of his successful application.
If an employee wishes to return to his former position after completing his probationary period, he will not be allowed to do so unless proper medical documentation dictates he leave the job. The said employee will have bidding rights restored.
— 12 —
10.07	A person in the employ of the Company outside the bargaining unit who has previously been in the employ of the Company within the bargaining unit or what is now the bargaining unit, shall if he is transferred back to a position within the bargaining unit, be credited with the seniority he had at the time of his transfer outside the bargaining unit plus the amount of time he spent outside the bargaining unit to a maximum of two (2) years.
10.08	A seniority list will be compiled by the Company and posted on the bulletin boards. Revised lists will be posted every six months. The Union will be supplied with two (2) copies of the seniority lists every four (4) months.
10.09	An employee shall lose his seniority for the following
reasons:
(a)	voluntarily quitting
(b)	discharge not reversed through the grievance procedure.
(c)	if, after being notified by the Company to return to work, he fails to notify the Company within two (2) working days, after such notification is given, that he intends to return to work. Such notification will be done by phone call witnessed by an official designated by the Union. The phone call will be followed up with a registered letter. In the case of the phone call not being completed the registered letter will serve as notification.
(d)	if he fails to return to work within five (5) working days after the Company has notified him to do so, unless he furnishes reasons for his failure which are satisfactory to the Company.
(e)	if he absented himself without leave or overstays an authorized leave of absence unless he provides a reason for such absence which is satisfactory to the Company
13
(f)	if he has not been actively employed by the Company by reason of lay-off for a period of twenty-four (24) consecutive months.
10.10	An employee absent due to illness or non-compensable injury will retain his seniority for a period equal to his seniority at the start of the absence or for one (1) year, whichever is greater, and at the completion of his absence due to non-compensable illness or injury, shall return to the job class which he held, provided he is capable of performing the work required to be done. An employee absent due to a compensable injury will be re-employed in accordance to the Workers’ Compensation Act, and will retain his seniority until such time as he is re-employed.
10.11	Subject to the provisions of Section 10.09 (f) and Section 10.10, seniority will continue to accumulate during layoff and during absence due to illness, injury and authorized
leave of absence.
10.12	While an employee is absent for any reason (except for legitimate compensable injury, approved leave of absence, Union business, or bereavement leave) his disciplinary status will be “put-on-hold” until his return to work, at which time it will resume where it was left off.
Article 11
LEAVE OF ABSENCE
11.01	The Company may grant an employee leave of absence without pay for legitimate personal reasons including illness or accident. Such leave if granted will be confirmed to the employee concerned in writing.
11.02	The Company may also grant leave of absence for attendance at Union conventions or conferences. Such leave shall not be unreasonably refused but shall in no circumstances
14
extend to more than five (5) employees at any one time and shall not exceed eighty (80) man days in aggregate in any one year. Such leave if granted shall be confirmed to the employee concerned in writing.
11.03	The Company will grant an employee up to three (3) days bereavement leave from his scheduled work days with pay in the event of the death of the employee’s spouse, father, mother, child and also child or children who live in a parent child relationship, brother, sister, father-in-law, mother-in-law, grandparents, grandchildren, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, son-in-law and daughter-in-law. The granting of such leave will be conditional on the employee attending the funeral or being responsible for the funeral arrangements. If an employee does not attend the funeral the Company will award one (1) day bereavement leave pay.
11.04	The Company will pay an employee the difference between a regular day’s pay and any court witness or jury pay he received for any day on which he is unable to perform his regular work because of jury service. Any vouchers relating to his jury duty or jury pay will be produced by the employee at the request of the Company.
11.05	The Company will grant a leave of absence for maternity and/or parental leave in accordance with the Employment Standards Act.
11.06	An employee who is injured during working hours as a result of occupational injury and who is unable to continue to work as a result of such injury shall be paid for the balance of the regular shift at his straight time hourly rate for such unworked hours, up to a maximum of eight (8) hours.
— 15
Article 12
BULLETIN BOARD
12.01	The Company will provide bulletin boards at appropriate locations in the plants for the use of the Union. Matters posted shall be restricted for:
(a)	notices of Union meetings
(b)	notices of Union elections or appointments
(c)	notices of results of Union election
(d)	notices of Union recreational and social activities
12.02	There shall be no other general distribution or posting by the Union or the employees of pamphlets, advertising or political matter, propaganda notices, or literature of any kind on the Company’s property other than as hereinbefore provided.
Article 13
WAGES
13.01	Effective March 26,1994, a lump sum payment of $383.00 will be paid to all employees who are on the payroll as of March 25,1994.
13.02	Effective March 26,1995, there will be a 2.0% increase on the rates of pay as per Schedule “A” annexed.
13.03	Effective March 24,1996, there will be a 2.5% increase on the rates of pay as per Schedule “A” annexed.
16
Article 14
HOURS WORKED AND OVERTIME
14.01	Nothing in this article is to be construed as a guarantee of any specific number of hours of work per day or per week.
14.02	(a) For employees working on the three-shift operation the regular hours of work will be forty (40) hours per week, eight (8) hours per day, to include a twenty (20) minute paid lunch period, Monday to Friday, inclusive.
For the Fordhouse location only, the Midnight shift will start on Monday night.
For employees on the one or two shift operation, the regular hours of work will be forty (40) hours per week, eight (8) hours per day with a thirty (30) minute unpaid lunch period, Monday to Friday inclusive.
(b) The day shill will start not prior to 7:00 a.m. and not later than 8:00 a.m. Shift start times outside of this time period may be changed by mutual consent of the parties.
14.03	There will be two (2) paid ten (10) minute rest periods per day, one in each half shift.
14.04	All work performed in excess of eight (8) hours within any period of twenty-four (24) consecutive hours will be paid at the rate of time and one-half.
All work performed in excess of twelve (12) hours within any period of twenty-four (24) consecutive hours will be paid at the rate of double time.
14.05	All work performed on Saturday, excepting the Friday Midnight shift at Fordhouse, will be paid at the rate of time and one-half All work performed on Sunday will be paid at the rate of double time. For the Midnight shift at the Fordhouse location, hours worked between 11.00 p.m. Saturday and 7:00 a.m. Sunday will be paid at time and one-half; hours worked
— 17 —
between 11:00 p.m. Sunday and 7:00 a.m. Monday will be
paid at double time.
14.06	(a) Overtime will be distributed as equitably as possible among those normally performing the work.
(1)	The employee assigned to the job and shift scheduled will be asked to work.
(2)	If such employee is unable to work the overtime, the off-shift employees assigned to the same job will be asked in seniority order.
(3)	If such employee (s) are unable to work the overtime, an employee qualified to perform the job will be asked to work, if such employee has signed a ^Monthly Overtime Intent List” which shall be posted by management and explained below. Employees will be able to add or delete their name from the intent list at any time during the month.
(4)	The “Intent List” will be posted by Management. This list is posted for employees to indicate by signature their availability to work overtime outside their own classification. These employees will be chosen for overtime assignments, if qualified, by seniority for open (unfilled) jobs. Management will distribute these overtime opportunities as equitably as possible. This list will be posted on the first Monday of each month. The overtime requirements will be posted by Wednesday at 3:00 p.m.
(5)	An employee whose job is scheduled cannot refuse such job and still be eligible for other jobs.
(b) Notice of scheduled weekend work for the Maintenance department will be posted in conjunction with the Notice for Production weekend requirements.
18
(c)	Notice of twenty-hour (24) hours will be given for scheduled out of town runs for truck drivers excepting in the course of business an emergency arises.
(d)	Management will develop lists of interested employees by seniority for those jobs that qualification are met at minimum levels. Those jobs will be agreed upon between management and the Union.
14.07	Overtime rates shall not be paid in respect of any time worked by the employees substituting for one another at their own request, or in respect of any change in an employee’s regular working hours made at his own request.
14.08	If an employee has completed his regular day ’s work and has left the Company’s plants and premises and is thereafter recalled to perform emergency work he will be guaranteed a minimum of two (2) hours pay at the rate of time and one-halfplus $20 (travel allowance), except on Sundays when he will be guaranteed a minimum of two (2) hours pay at the rate of double time plus $20 (travel allowance).
14.09	An employee who has worked overtime shall not be required to take time off to offset such overtime.
14.10	An employee required to work overtime will be guaranteed one (1) hours pay.
14.11	If the overtime work immediately following a regular shift equals or exceeds two (2) hours the employee will be entitled to one ten (10) minute paid break period.
14.12	If the overtime work immediately following a regular shift equals or exceeds three (3) hours the employee wul be entitled to paid break periods totalling twenty (20) minutes, which will be taken immediately following the completion of
his regular shift.
19
14.13	An employee required to work overtime on a Saturday, Sunday or plant holiday will receive break periods in accordance with Section 14.03.
14.14	An employee reporting for work at his regular time, without having been notified by the Company not to report, shall be given at least four (4) hours work or, if no work is available for him, four (4) hours pay at his regular rate. This provision, however, shall not apply if the lack of work is due to an act of God, fire, flood, explosion, or some such other reason beyond the Company’s control.
Article 15
PLANT HOLIDAYS
15.01	An employee will be entitled, without rendering service, to receive a regular day’s pay in respect of each of the following holidays:
New Year’s Day Good Friday Victoria Day Dominion Day Civic Holiday
Labour Day Thanksgiving Day Christmas Eve
Christmas Day Boxing Day New Year’s Eve
In the event that any of the above days fall on a Saturday or Sunday the holiday for the purposes of this agreement, will be deemed to be either the preceding Friday or the following Monday.
The Company will recognize an additional statutory holiday with pay if, and after, the Canadian Federal Government grants same.
20
15.02	An employee who is required to work on a holiday for which he is entitled to holiday pay under Section 15.01 will be paid at the rate of time and one-half for the time worked over and above his holiday pay.
15.03	In order to qualify for holiday pay for any of the full days listed in Section 15.0 1 an employee must have worked not less than seven-eights (7/8ths) of a full shift on the last working day preceding and not less than seveneights (7/8th) of a full shift on the next working day following the holiday. The qualifying conditions stipulated in this section will not apply if the absence on any of the days is an authorized leave of absence or is a result of illness or injury evidenced by an acceptable doctor’s certificate, other justifiable reasons acceptable to management or a lay-off that commenced not earlier than the third working day preceding the holiday. The “Third Working Day” qualification referred to in the previous sentence will be extended to ten (10) working days in case of Christmas Eve, providing that the employee has completed his probationary period at the commencement of his absence and provided further that the employee returns to work following his absence.
Article 16
VACATIONS
16.01	A vacation year shall run from July 1st to June 30th.
16.02	An employee with less than one (1) year’s service as at June 30th in any year will receive a vacation based on the formula of two (2) weeks’ vacation for one (1) year of continuous service but prorated to his actual continuous service as at June 30th and calculated to the nearest half day with vacation pay equal to four percent (4%) of his gross earnings to that date.
21
16.03	An employee with one (1) year but less than five (5) years of continuous service as at June 30th in any year will be entitled to a vacation of two (2) weeks with pay equal to four percent (4%) of his gross annual earnings to that date.
16.04	An employee with five (5) years or more of continuous service as at June 30th in any year will be entitled to a vacation of three (3) weeks with pay equal to six percent (6%) of his gross annual earnings for the year to that date.
16.05	An employee with ten (10) years or more of continuous service as at June 30th in any year will be entitled to a vacation of four (4) week’s with pay equal to eight percent (8%) of his gross annual earnings for the year to that date.
16.06	An employee with twenty (20) years or more of continuous service as at June 30th in any year will be entitled to a vacation of five (5) weeks with pay equal to ten percent (10%) of his gross earnings for the year to that date.
16.07	An employee who reaches his fifth, tenth or 20th year of continuous service subsequent to June 30th in any year shall be entitled to an additional week with pay equal to 2% of his gross annual earnings for the year ending June 30th.
16.08	For the purpose of calculating the annual vacation entitlement the prior year vacation pay will be added to the regular earnings.
16.09	An employee whose employment with the Company is severed shall receive in lieu of vacation pay, an amount equal to four percent (4%) or six percent (6%) or eight percent (8%) or 10 percent (10%) (depending on his length of service as at the preceding June 30th) of his gross annual earnings during the period for which he had not previously received vacation pay.
16.10	An employee will receive his vacation pay prior to proceeding on vacation.
22
16.11	If an employee is absent due to sickness or injury for a continuous period of not less than four (4) weeks in any vacation year, his total time off due to sickness or injury will be counted as time worked for the purpose of calculating vacation pay. To be eligible for vacation pay, an employee must return to work for thirty (30) days in the current vacation year.
16.12	In the event of a shutdown of the plants for vacation purposes, all employees, unless otherwise notified must take their vacation during this period. Notice of shutdown will be given not later than April 15th of the vacation year and after May 15th vacations will not be adjusted.
Article 17
SHIFT PREMIUM
17.01	Effective March 26,1994 an employee who is scheduled to work on the off shift will be paid an off shift premium of forty (40) cents per hour.
Shift premium for overtime hours shall not be paid to employees on scheduled day shift unless they work three (3) or more hours of overtime.
17.02	The off-shift premium referred to in 17.01 will not be used in the computation of overtime rates.
Article 18 WELFARE
18.01	The benefits referred to in this Article are detailed in
and are subject to, the provisions of the Group Master Policy.
18.02	The Company’s Group Insurance Plan will include the following benefits as outlined:
23
(a)	Life and A.D. & D. Insurance
Effective March 26,1994, All employees: $26,000
(b! Weekly Sickness and Accident Indemnity
Effective March 26, 1994	$260.00 per week
Effective March 26, 1995	$270.00 per week
Effective March 24, 1996	$280.00 per week
Indemnity payable first (1st) day of accident or first (1 st) day of sickness in hospital and otherwise fourth (4th) day of sickness.
Effective March 26,1994, Weekly Indemnity benefits will be payable for a maximum of twenty-six (26) weeks in any frfty-two (52) week period for any one sickness or accident.
(c)	Major Medical Benefits
1)	Prescriptions: Effective March 26, 1994, Generic drags only will be covered unless the treating physician specifies “No Substitution”.
If “brand name” drugs are purchased when a “generic” drag is available and the prescription was not marked “no substitution”, reimbursement will be restricted to 80% of the cost of the “brand name” drug.
Only drugs, sera and injectables available only by prescription when prescribed by a physician or dentist, and dispensed by a pharmacist, physician or dentist, will be eligible for reimbursement.
Effective March 26,1994, Fertility Drugs will be covered at 50% for six (6) cycles with a maximum of $4000.00. Once in a lifetime.
Effective March 26,1994, Orthotics will be covered at one (1) pair per calendar year to a maximum of $300.00.
24
2)	Vision Care: Effective March26,1994, a maximum of $150.00 in any 24 month period towards the purchase of prescription eye-glassesfor each family member requiring prescription glasses.
(d)	Long Term Disability
Will provide sixty (60%) percent of your basic monthly earnings in effect immediately prior to the date of disability subject to a maximum benefit of $2,500.00 per month. This benefit commences after 26 weeks of weekly indemnity and is payable until you recover or attain age 65.
(e)	Dental Plan Benefits
1)	Effective March 26,1994:
Deductible: $25.00 Single, $50.00 Family
The coverage is for the employees and their families to a maximum of $1,000 per annum for the employee and each member of his family. The dental plan expenses will be reimbursed based on the 1994 annual fee schedule of the Ontario Dental Association.
Dental expenses for periodic maintenance (cleaning, scaling, x-rays, etc.) will be reimbursed once every mne (9) months.
2)	Effective January 1,1995:
Deductible: $25.00 Single, $50.00 Family
The coverage will be as above, except the dental plan expenses will be reimbursed based on the 1995 annual fee schedule of the Ontario Dental Association.
3)	Effective January 1,1996:
Deductible: $25.00 Single, $50.00 Family
The coverage will be as above, except the dental plan expenses willbe reimbursed based on the 1996 annual foe
— 25 —
schedule of the Ontario Dental Association.
4)	Effective January 1,1997 to March 25,1997: Deductible: $25.00 Single, $50.00 Family
The coverage will be as above, except the dental plan expenses will be reimbursed based on the 1997 annual fee schedule of the Ontario Dental Association.
5)	The Dental benefit will be effective on the one year anniversary date of the employee’s seniority with the
Company.
18.03	Effective March 26,1994, Major Medical and Dental expenses, as outlined elsewhere in this Article and the Group Master Policy, continue to be eligible for reimbursement at 100%.
18.04	A laid-off employee will continue to be covered under the foregoing Group Policy (but excluding the weekly indemnity provisions) until the end of the month following the month of lay-off at no cost to the employee. If the lay-off extends beyond the above stated period, the employee may opt to continue such coverage for so long as he retains seniority, at his own expense.
ARTfCLE 19 PENSION PLAN
19.01(a) (1) Effective March 26,1994 a pension benefit of $14.001 icr month (an increase of $1.00 per month for each full year of future earned accredited service after March 26,1994).
For employees with seniority dates prior to March 26, 1983, the Company will provide an employee pension benefit improvement at $5.75 per month per year of service retroactive for all continuous service prior to March 26,1983, such that their credited service will be equal to their seniority.
— 26 —
For all employees in excess of twenty (20) years of continuous service, the Company will provide a supplement of $5.00 per month per year of service to the pension benefit for each year of accredited service after March 26, 1983.
(2)	Effective March 26,1995 a pension benefit increase to $15.00 per month (an increase of $1.00 per month for each full year of future earned accredited service after March 26,1995).
(3)	Effective March 26,1996 a pension benefit increase to $16.00 per month (an increase of $1.00 per month for each lull year of future earned accredited service after March 26, 1996).
(b)	The normal retirement age for all employees will be 65
years.
(c)	In the event of termination of employment, or disability, an employee with at least two years of accredited service will be eligible for a deferred pension benefit.
(d)	Costs for this Pension Plan are paid for entirely by the Company.
(e)	Employees on Workers’ Compensation or Long Term Disability will continue to accumulate credited service.
(f)	There will be an option for employees with at least ten years accredited service to elect an actuarial reduced pension benefit paid at age 60 or age 55 with 30 years accredited service.
(g)	The Company will recognize pension indexing if and when indexing is mandated under the Ontario Pension Benefits Act (1987).
27
Article 20
HEALTH AND SAFETY
20.01 The Company will establish a Joint Health & Safety Committee with representation from both Management and the Bargaining Unit as required by the Occupational Health and Safety Act and made a part of this agreement as APPENDIX “B”.
20.02 The Company has agreed, upon presentation of a receipt, to pay for the cost of Safety Footwear up to:
a maximum of $46.00 effective April 1, 1994 a maximum of $48.00 effective April 1, 1995 a maximum of $50.00 effective April 1,1996
This subsidy will be issued once within a one (I) year period, to those employees whose jobs are deemed to require foot protection (see Appendix “A”, agreement number 15). If the shoes/boots are damaged or worn out on the job in a period of less than one (1) year the Company at its discretion may replace the footwear.
Article 2 1 DURATION
21 .QL-This agreement will remain in force until the 25th day of March 1997 and itshall continue in force from year to year thereafter, unless either party gives notice in writing to the
other, not more than ninety (90) days nor less than sixty (60) days prior to the 25th day of March 1997 or the anniversary date of any subsequent yearly extension that it desires to terminate or amend the agreement.
28
SCHEDULE “A’
Job Classifications and Wage Rates
There are thirteen (13) job classes (8 conversion and 5 foamline) plus a skilled maintenance class. These jobs are listed by class with appropriate wage rates, elsewhere in this appendix.
The Company agrees to discuss with the Union job classifications prior to the establishment of new jobs.
Progression
At hiring, an employee will be paid at the “Entry Level” rate indicated elsewhere in this appendix, until the completion of the sixty (60) work day probation.
Upon completion of the probationary period, employees will be paid the maximum job rate for the job class to which they are assigned.
Job Class Changes
If an employee changes job classes through a promotion, transfer, demotion or by exercising seniority bumping rights, the employee will be paid at the job rate ofthe new job class.
For job changes to a higher job class, the rate of pay will be increased to the maximum job rate of the new job class effective on the date of change.
If the employee is transferred, laid-off or demoted to a lower job class, the rate of pay will be decreased to the maximum job rate of the new class, and will be implemented in accordance with the date of the change.
29
SCHEDULE “A" (Continued)
MAINTENANCE CLASS 1 - Basic Helper Category MAINTENANCE CLASS 2 - Junior Mechanic Category
•	Able to troubleshoot, diagnose and repair all basic items MAINTENANCE CLASS 3 - Intermediate Mechanic Category
•	Able to troubleshoot, diagnose and repair all machines
•	Able to build basics from scratch MAINTENANCE CLASS 4 ■ Advance Mechanic Category
-	Able to troubleshoot, diagnose and repair all machines
-	Able to design and fabricate machines and alterations from scratch
An individual who is successful in gaining a promotional opportunity in any of the first three maintenance classes will be afforded an opportunity to advance to the next class if such employee displays the skill, ability and qualifications to be
advanced.
This opportunity will not follow the normal bidding procedure. It is the responsibility of the employee to inform management if outside factors, such as schooling or on-the-job training at any work location other than the company, has been completed in an appropriate craft. Such additional schooling or training will be considered by management regarding this type of advancement.
It is understood that a Class 4 maintenance employee who takes it upon himself to improve his skills with additional training will be granted a 25 cents per hour increase, if such skill is either requested by and/or approved by Management.
After one (.1) year of service in the Maintenance Department, each classified maintenance employee will receive up to $100.00 tool allowance for each year of the contract. This allowance will be issued and administered by the Maintenance Superintendent on a tool by tool basis as required by the job and substantiated by a receipt.
30
SCHEDULE “A’
Group 1 - CONVERSION
Effective	Effective	Effective
Mar. 26,1994 Mar. 26,1995 Mar. 26,1996
Job Class No.l	10.38	10.59	10.85
Entry Level
These rates will remain in effect until the employee is placed in a job class. However, in no circumstance will these rates change until the employee has passed 60 working days of his probationary period.
Job Class No. 2	11.48	11.71	12.00
Furniture Hand Fab Automotive Hand Fab Packer - Furniture Packer - Automotive Packer - Bio-Clinic Baler Operator Material Handler Peeler Helper Press Picker Janitor
*Mattress Gluing: $.20 per hour in addition to the published rate.
Job Class No. 3	11.85	12.09	12.39
Vertical Saw - other Laminator Crew Side Trim Operator Cut-Off Operator Wind-Up Operator Cradler/Sealer Operator Shipper
Frank Edge Helper
31
Hand Cutter V-30 Helper V-21 Helper
Quality Control Inspector- Fordhouse
**Track Slitter Helper/Assistant Operator
**Slitter Helper: $.13 per hour in addition to published rate.
Effective	Effective	Effective
Mar. 26,1994 Mar. 26, 1995 Mar. 26, 1996
Job Class No 4	12.17	12.41	12.72
***Head Shipper
Vertical Saw-V2 1 Operator
Vertical Saw-V30 Operator
Sheridan Press Operator
Carousel Operator
Angle Saw Operator
Peeler Operator
Sensomatic Operator
Fecken Kirfle Operator
Locator
Tunnel/Crane Operator Head Packer Assistant Receiver Fork Lift Operator Furniture Material Handler Flame Laminator Backup Sample Coordinator Mattress Mat Handler
***Fumiture Head Shipper, Off-Shift Truck Shunting; $.10 per hour in addition to the published rate.
***Mattress Mat Handler: $.20 per hour in addition to published rate.
32
Effective	Effective	Effective
Mar. 26,1994 Mar. 26, 1995 Mar. 26,1996
Job Class No. 5	12.76	13.02	13.35
Track Slitter Operator Femco 4A6 Operator Quality Control Coordinator Automotive Set-up Person Frank Edge Operator Receiver
Laminator Operator-Flame Head Shipper-Fordhouse
Job Class	No.	6	13.07	13.33	13.66
Laminator operator- Automotive
Job Class	No.	7	13.41	13.68	14.02
Freight Co-Ordinator-Del Trucks
Job Class	No.	8	14.39	14.68	15.05
Freight Co-Ordinator-Tractors
Foamline Wage Rates
Ffrss	12.56	12.81	13.13
Activator Mixer Scale Transfer Cut-Off Saw Foamline Back-up
Class F3	13.00	13.26	13.59
Chemical Receiver			
Class F4	15.22	15.52	15.91
Assistant Operator			
ESass	16.78	17.12	17.55
Main Operator
33
Group 2-Maintenance
Effective	Effective Effective
Mar. 26,1994 Mar. 26,1995 Mar. 26,1996
Maintenance Wane Rates			
Class Ml	14.59	14.88	15.25
Class M2	16.48	16.81	17.23
Cass	17.86	18.22	18.68
Class M4	19.23	19.61	20.10
34
APPENDIX “A" Letters of Confirmation
Agreement Number 1
The Company agrees to distribute the weekly pay cheques to all wage earners no later than the end of the applicable shifts:
day shift - Thursday day afternoon shift - Thursday evening midnight shift - Friday morning
In the event that a holiday occurs on Friday the weekly pay cheques will be issued as early as possible.
Agreement Number 2
Supervisors will not perform any of the work normally performed by members of the bargaining unit unless an emergency situation occurs. If an emergency situation occurs, then work may be performed by the supervisor temporarily so as not to disrupt production.
Agreement Number 3
The Company will issue a separate pay cheque for vacation pay.
Agreement Number 4
The Company will include on T-4 slips employees’ union dues deductions.
Agreement Number 5
The Company agrees that all retro-active pay will be paid by separate cheque.
Agreement Number 6
The Company agrees to place pay cheques and T-4 slips in sealed envelopes before they are distributed.
— 35 —
Agreement Number 7
The Company agrees to maintain the current pay classes for those employees who were affected negatively on job reclassification. It is also agreed that new employees starting on these jobs will be paid the new lower rates established at the time of negotiations.
Agreement Number 8
The Company agrees to provide insulated clothing and will make protective clothing available for employees working in areas that could cause more soiling to clothing than regular duties, or ifthey are exposed to inclement weather. Such clothing will be maintained and retained by the Company.
Agreement Number 9
The Company will not use outside contractors to perform work that in the Company’s opinion could be performed by the bargaining unit.
Agreement Number 10
The Company agrees that all new wage-earning employees will be required to complete an application for Union membership card, provided that the Union supplies said applications.
Agreement Number 11
The Company agrees to recognize U.R. W. Journeyman cards. Agreement Number 12
The Company reserves the right to produce and deliver samples & prototypes as necessary as long as such work is not currently approved for production. Such deliveries are those normally made in a passenger car.
36
Agreement Number 13
The Company agrees to continue its practice of voiding disciplinary procedures against an employee if such an employee has completed six (6) months without an infraction. In the
case of safety violations this period will be extended to twelve (12) months.
Agreement Number 14
The Company agrees to continue to work with the Provincial Government or other appropriate agencies to set up a Maintenance Mechanic Apprenticeship Program within six (6) months. Such program to be subject to Government regulations and agreed upon between the parties.
If existing employees in Maintenance can take advantage of such a program they will be allowed to better themselves in the same manner. Management agrees to credit them with the time spent in the given trade and place them in the Apprenticeship program in the proper level.
The Company agrees to make calendars available from local universities and colleges for the use of interested parties.
Agreement Number 15
Job classifications that are required to wear proper foot protection:
-	automotive laminator crews
-	Fordhouse: All Employees
-	receivers
-	maintenance employees
-	foamline employees
-	health & safety committee (while on tour)
-	track drivers
37
Agreement Number 16
In recognition of concerns expressed by the Union, the Company agrees to re-evaluate specific jobs that are considered to have increased duties and responsibilities.
Agreement Number 17
It is mutually agreed that FOAMEX Canada Inc. track drivers will be considered to be used for state-side trips under extreme emergency only. Even then, it will be strictly on a volunteer basis by seniority. Should all qualified drivers fail to volunteer, then an outside carrier will be used with no fault given to any FOAMEX Canada Inc. driver for failing to volunteer.
Agreement Number 18
The Union will be notified of any upgrading being done in the Maintenance Department before the promotion goes through.
38
APPENDIX “B”
Safety and Health
Section 1
The purpose of this Safety and Health Article is to provide effective machinery for the elimination of all work conditions hazardous or potentially hazardous to the health and safety of the employees.
Section 2
The Company agrees to furnish each employee employment and a place of employment free from all recognized hazards that are causing or are likely to cause physical harm to the employee. The Company further agrees that the General Duty Clause (section 14 (l)-<2)-(3) and section 15 (1) of the Occupational Health and Safety Act and Regulations for Industrial Establishments shall be abided.
Section 3
The Joint Labour/Management Safety Committee shall be appointed. The Committee shall be composed of at least three representatives of Management and of at least three representatives of the Local Union. The Union representatives shall be selected by the Local Union. Union and Company membership on the Committee shall be equal numbers. The Committee shall:
(a)	meet at least once a month on a definitely established schedule, to be the third Friday of each month at 2 pm.
(b)	make periodic tours of the plant but not less frequently than once every month, to coincide with the monthly meeting. The committee will choose one extra employee per month (by Dept.) to make the plant tour with them.
39
make preliminary industrial hygiene evaluations of exposure to designated substances.
The Company shall provide for and maintain appropriate equipment.
(d)	make recommendations for more complete industrial hygiene surveys.
(e)	make recommendations for the correction of unsafe or harmful conditions and the elimination of unsafe or harmful work practices. The Safety Co-ordinator shall be responsible for the implementation and enforcement of the Joint Labour/Management Safety Committee’s recommendations. All such recommendations shall include a target date for abatement of hazardous condition or
(f)	the Accident Review Board will review and analyze all
reports of industrial injury or illness, investigate causes of same, and recommend rules and procedures for the prevention of accidents and diseases and for the promotion of the health and safety of the employees.
(g)	promote health and safety education.
(h)	safety Committee members will be paid applicable hourly earnings for all time spent when meeting jointly with Management and for all required inspection or investigation of safety and health problems in the plant.
(i)	minutes shall be kept of all joint Committee meetings and a written report shall be prepared for review at the next Committee meeting. Such report to be given to the Committee members at least two days prior to the scheduled meeting.
(j)	the Company will continue to allow Safety Committee
members to enter the plant for the purpose of investigating safety and health conditions.
— 40 —
(k)	members of the Safety Committee shall be permitted to attend grievance meetings regarding safety and health
problems, if requested.
Section 4
Up-to-date accident/injury reports shall be kept and maintained by the Company and copies shall be posted on all bulletin boards weekly. A copy of which will be given to a designated union committee member.
Section 5
The Company shall maintain a current file of all materials in use in its plants, including trade name, chemical name and code. Copies of this file shall be made available upon request to members of the Joint Labour/Management Safety Committee.
(a)	The Company shall identify all toxic materials.
(b)	The Company agrees to abide by the Regulation respecting Isocyanates-made under the Occupational Health and Safety Act, or any other future designated substances.
Section 6
The Union members of the Committee may seek counsel and assistance of representatives of the URCLPWA International Union and such representatives shall be granted the right to accompany the Committee on inspections, attend meetings of the Committee, and make recommendations to the Committee and shall be permitted to make such investigations and physical examinations as may be necessary with the approval of Management.
Section 7
The Company shall furnish competent medical services and supply adequate facilities for the proper first aid treatment of cases resulting from injury or physical impairments or afflic-
— 41 —
tions obtained while in the plant. Copies of the reports of the medical findings made by the Company’s medical service or reports of outside medical services used by the Company shall be furnished to the employee. The confidentiality of medical results shall be respected. The Company shall provide necessary mutually acceptable biological studies where indicated by potentially hazardous materials.
Section 8
Refusal to work OHSA
Sec 23(3) A worker may refuse to work or do particular work where he has reason to believe that:
(a)	any equipment, machine, device or thing he is to use or operate is likely to endanger himself or another worker.
(b)	the physical condition of the work place or the part thereof in which he works or is to work is likely to endanger himself, or
(c)	any equipment, machine, device or thing he is to use or operate or the physical condition of the work place or the part thereof in which he works or is to work is in contravention of this Act or the regulations and such contravention is likely to endanger himself or another worker.
Sec 23 (4) Upon refusing to work or do particular work, the worker shall promptly report the circumstances of his refusal to his employer or supervisor who shall forthwith investigate the report in the presence of the worker and if there is such in the presence of one of,
(a)	a committee member who represents workers if any
(b)	a health and safety representative if any
(c)	a worker who because of his knowledge, experience and training is selected by a trade union that represents the worker, or if there is no trade union is selected by the
— 42 —
ers to represent them who shall be made available and who shall attend without delay.
Sec 23 (5) Until the investigation is completed, the worker shall remain in a safe place near his work station.
Sec 25 (6) Where, following the investigation or any steps taken to deal with the circumstances that caused the worker to refuse to work or do particular work, the worker has reasonable grounds to believe that,
(a)	the equipment, machine, device or thing that was the cause of his refusal to work or do particular work continues to be likely to endanger himself or another worker,
(b)	the physical condition of the work place or the part thereof in which he works continues to be likely to endanger himself; or
(c)	any equipment, machine, device or thing he is to use or operate or the physical condition of the work place or the part thereof in which he works or is to work is in contravention of this Act or the regulations and such contravention continues to be likely to endanger himself or another worker,
the worker may refuse to work or do particular work and the employer or the worker or a person on behalf of the employer or worker shall cause an inspector to be notified thereof.
Section 9
No employee is expected to work on any job in the plant with which he is unfamiliar with. Such employee shall receive adequate safety training from his supervisor. This training shall include information on potential hazards on any material to which the employee is exposed.
43
Section 10
It is recognized that protective equipment and clothing are temporary measures for relief of conditions which must be subject to further corrective measures through engineering changes or elimination of the hazard involved. The complete cost of all protective equipment shall be borne by the Company, with the exception of Protective Footwear - which is covered under Article 20.02 of this agreement.
Section 11
The Union agrees to make every reasonable effort to have its members observe all safety and health rules promulgated under this Agreement. The Union and Union members shall act in an advisory capacity in the performance of duties under this section, and it shall remain the exclusive responsibility of the Company to ensure the safety and health of its employees.
Section 12
Management agrees to abide with all aspects of the Occupational Health and Safety Act requirements as outlined in Section 28 (3), 28 (5), and Section 29 (6).
Section 13
An emergency response team shall be maintained and trained and shall periodically conduct evacuation drills.
Section 14
Management agrees to abide with all aspects of the Occupational Health and Safety Act as outline in the Regulations Respecting Designated Substances.
44
Executed by the duly authorized representatives of the parties this 15th day of. March 1994.
FOR THE UNIONI

— 45 —