.SOURCE
AGREEMENT ft 3
Tierm._3.?.
n
o
§3
gfel
BETWEEN Of
I C-Sn,<:-,,:c
>M>R=
:'M7>LO?cS
o
Manchester Plastics, Ltd. Gananoque Division
Gananoqiie, Ontario
AND
International Union United Steelworkers of America LOCAL 3209 AFL — CIO - CLC
AUGUST 3 1 st, 1993
“MOULDING THE FUTURETOGETHER"
KST -5 1994 CC'lir i 04
AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
Manchester Plastics, Ltd. Gananoque Division
Gananoque, Ontario
AND
International Union United Steelworkers of America LOCAL 3209 AFL - CIO - CLC
AUGUST 31st, 1993
"MOULDING THE FUTURE TOGETHER”
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Apprenticeship...........................
Bereavement..............................
Cost of Living-
Duration of Agreement-...................
Function of Management...................
General..................................
General Purpose of Agreement.............
Grievance Procedure......................
Group Insurance Benefits.................
Health and Safety........................
International Aid and Development........
Jury Duty................................
Lay-off..................................
Leave of Absence.........................
Letters of Understanding.................
Maternity Leave
Modified Work Programme..................
New Classifications......................
Orientation..............................
Overtime,.-------------------------------
Pension
Recall...................................
Regular Working Hours....................
Seniority ...............................
Temporary Transfer.......................
Training.................................
Trial Periods............................
Union Notices............................
Union Recognition........................
Union Security...........................
Vacation ................................
Wage Rates...............................
.48
42
.. 47
.......5
......43
.......3
.......7
......-40
.....,25
46
25
Z--J7
.23
....50
24
... 46
.....34
50
27
39
.....19
.....27
14
.22
"”---47 .....21
,„.4-
35
"33
AGREEMENT
Made on the 31 st day of August, 1993
BETWEEN: MANCHESTER PLAS TICS, LTD. GANANOQUE DIVISION GANANOQUE, ONTARIO
hereinafter called the "Company"
OF THE FIRST PART
AND
THE INTERNATIONAL UNION,
UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA an unincorporated voluntary association, hereinafter called the "Union" on behalf of its Local 3209.
OF THE SECOND PART
GENERAL PURPOSE OF AGREEMENT
It is the intent and purpose of the agreement to promote the mutual interest of the Company and its employees, to provide procedure for orderly collective bargaining relations with respect to conditions of employment, and to secure prompt and equitable settlement of complaints and grievances.
Article I - UNION RECOGNITION
1.01	The Company recognizes the Union as the sole collective bargaining agent for all employees in the
Plastic Products plant located in Gananoque with the exception of those who have the power to hire, fire, or discipline, or those who may be engaged in a confidential capacity. The excepted employees will include officials, engineers, technicians, office employees, foremen, assistant foremen and plant protection men. Such employees are in no event to perform duties normally performed by employees in the bargaining unit.
1.02	There shall be no discrimination., interference, restraint or coercion by or on behalf of the Company regarding any employees or prospective employees because of membership or non-membership in the Union. The Union, its members and/or its agents shall not intimidate or coerce, or attempt to intimidate or coerce employees into membership, collect dues, hold meetings or engage in any Union activities except as hereinafter provided.
ARTICLE II - UNION SECURITY
2.01	It is agreed by the parties that all present employees of the Company shall pay Union dues as a condition of employment. Each new employee hired shall also, as a condition of employment, have deducted from his pay the weekly Union Dues, or an equivalent sum.
2.02	The amounts so deducted shall be such sums as may from time to time be assessed by the Union on its members in accordance with the Constitution and By-Laws of the International Union.
2.03	The Company agrees to forward to the Secretary-
4
Treasurer of United Steelworkers of America, Mailing Address - P.O. Box 13083, Station “A”, Toronto, Ontario, M5W .1 V7, by cheque made payable to the International Treasurer of the Union each month, no later than the tenth (10th) day of the month following the month in which the deductions were made, the amount deducted. A list of employees from whom deductions were made, and any that have not had their dues deducted along with dfc? xassvef JhsxrSav, shall also be included.
2.04	The Staff Representative of the Union will notify the Company of any changes in the amount of Union Dues that may from time to time take place in line with constitutional requirements.
2.05	It is understood and agreed by the parties that the above check-off procedure does not compel the employees to become a member of the Union, nor does it compel the Company to discharge an employee if the employee is suspended or expelled from the Union under the International Constitution trial procedure.
ARTICLE III - FUNCTION OF MANAGEMENT
3.01	The Union acknowledges that it is the exclusive function of the Company, subject to the terms and conditions of the Agreement:
(a) To hire, promote, demote, transfer, discipline, suspend, or discharge any employee for just cause, subject to the right of the employee to lodge a grievance as herein after provided. Any discipline that is not reversed through the grievance procedure, or by other-
means, shall be removed from the employee's file no later than twenty-four (24) months from the time of such discipline.
(b) To manage its business in all aspects in accordance with its commitments and responsibilities including the decision as to the products to be manufactured, methods of manufacturing, scheduling of production, and type, kinds and locations of machinery to be used, and the control and flow of materials through the plant.
3.02	While the Company will do its utmost to give employees continuous employment at their regular occupations, it cannot guarantee such conditions. The Company may transfer employees in accordance with the seniority provisions of this Agreement.
3.03	The Company reserves the right to discipline employees for breach of Company rules and regulations. The Company also has the right to make and alter, from time to time, rules and regulations to be observed by the employees, which rules and regulations shall be published and made available to employees but shall not be inconsistent with the provisions of this agreement. The Company agrees prior to implementing a change in plant rules to notify and advise the Union of the reason for the change.
3.04	The Company agrees that during the life of the agreement there will be no lockout and the Union agrees that it will not call or encourage any strike, slowdown, or other interference with work or production which will in any way affect the operation of the Company.
6
ARTICLE IV - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
4.01	A grievance committee consisting of not more than four (4) employees of the Company, one of whom shall be the President of the Local Union, or his designated alternate, along with the Staff Representative of the Union, shall represent the employees of the Company in the settlement of all grievances that may arise at the appropriate stages. The Company acknowledges the right of the Union to appoint or otherwise select committeemen or stewards to assist employees in presenting their grievances to the representatives of the Company. The Company will recognize at least one committeeman or steward per shift, plus an alternate to serve in his absence in each department, and will make every effort to retain the committeemen or stewards on the same shift in order that union members shall have representation at all times.
4.02	It is the mutual desire of the parties hereto that grievances or employees shall be adjusted as quickly as possible, and it is understood that the foreman, or, if the employee has no foreman, his immediate supervisor, shall first be given an opportunity of adjusting grievances with the employees who may be accompanied by their committeeman or steward.
4.03	If a grievance is not settled by the foreman to the satisfaction of the employee within two (2) working days, then the following steps of the Grievance Procedure may be invoked, in order
STEP 1
The aggrieved employee or one designated member of
a group of employees shall, within two (2) working days following the foreman’s or supervisor’s oral reply, present his/their grievance in writing on a form supplied by the Union and approved by the Company to his foreman or supervisor, stating the nature of his/their grievance, when possible the paragraph(s) of the Agreement allegedly violated and the solution requested. The foreman or supervisor shall deliver his replay in writing to the Union within two (2) working days following the presentation of the grievance to him. If this reply is not satisfactory to the employee(s) concerned, the grievance may be presented in accordance with Step 2 of this Article at any time within two (2) working days thereafter.
STEP 2
The aggrieved employee(s) may present the written grievance to the superintendent or head of his/their department, setting forth the reason for the appeal. The Superintendent or Department Head shall deliver his reply in writing to the Union within two (2) working days following the presentation of the grievance to him. If a settlement satisfactory to the employee(s) concerned is not reached within two (2) working days following presentation of the grievance in accordance with Step 2, the grievance may be presented in accordance with Step 3 of this Article at any time within two (2) working days thereafter.
STEP 3
The aggrieved employee(s) may present the written grievance by way of appeal to the Plant Manager, or his designated representative. Upon presentation of the grievance to him the Plant Manager, or his designated
representative, shall immediately arrange a meeting between himself, the Superintendent(s) concerned, the Union Grievance Committee and the Staff Representative for the Union, and such meeting shall be held within ten (10) working days following presentation of the grievance to the Plant Manager, or his designated representative. The Plant Manager, or his designated representative, shall deliver his reply to the grievance in writing to the Union within five (5) working days following such meeting.
It is further understood and agreed that in the event an employee wishes to appeal the Company or Union decision relative to a Grievance at any Step, such time limits will be considered to have been extended by mutual agreement to five (5) working days following the date of the next regular membership meeting of the Union. The time period between the decision to appeal by the member and the five (5) working days following the date of the next regular membership meeting shall not be considered by die arbitrator for compensation of lost wages.
It is undrxstnrirUu)4_aFgfrrL^at‘hf-ttoift limits. specified in Steps 1, 2, and 3 may be extended by mutual agreement of the Company and the Union.
4.04	If the Managment's decision in Step 3 is not satisfactory to the Union, written notice of appeal may be served by the Staff Representative of the International Union on the Plant Manager or his designated representative, within fifteen (15) working days of the date of the decision, appealing therefrom to an impartial arbitrator to be selected by the parties. If the parties fail to select an arbitrator within ten (10) regular working days of the receipt by the Plant Manager or his desig-
nated representative, of the notice of appeal, then the Minister of Labour for the Province of Ontario shall be asked to provide a list of seven arbitrators. The arbitrator shall be selected from such a list in the following manner.
(a)	Within ten (10) calendar days from receipt of the list of arbitrators, the Union or the Company shall, on alternate occasions, strike the names of three (3) from the list of seven (7) arbitrators;
(b)	The other party shall then strike three (3) names within the next ten (10) calendar days, and the remaining name shall be the arbitrator.
In the event that either party chooses to process a Grievance under the provision of Section 45 of the Ontario Labour Relations Act, it is understood that the Grievance shall not be processed further through the Grievance Procedure as set forth in this Article 4. In all cases, the parties agree to request the appointment of a Settlement Officer to endeavour to effect a settlement prior to the hearing by an Arbitrator appointed hereunder.
4.05	Grievances within the meaning of the grievance procedure and this arbitration clause shall consist of disputes about the interpretation, application or administration of particular clauses of this Agreement, about alleged violations of the Agreement and any question as to whether a matter is arbitrable.
4.06	The Arbitrator’s decision must be based upon interpretation of the provisions of this Agreement.
10
(a)	The arbitrator shall have no power to alter, amend, add to, or subtract from, or to modify any of the terms of this Agreement, nor shall he substitute his discretion for that of the Company or the Union where such discretion has been retained by the Company or the Union, nor shall he exercise any responsibility or function of the Company or the Union.
(b)	He shall, however, in respect of a grievance involving the suspension or discharge of an employee, be entitled to modify or set aside such penalty, if it is just and equitable to do so. Any claims including claims for back wages by an employee or by the Union, against the Company, shall not be valid for a period commencing prior to the date the grievance was first filed in writing. All claims for back wages shall include only the difference in back wages after deducting Unemployment Insurance benefits or compensation for personal services received.
4.07	All reasonable arrangements will be made to permit the conferring parties to have access to the plant to view any disputed operations or to confer with the necessary witnesses. Written permission must be obtained from the Plant Manager or his designated representative. Permission will not be unreasonably withheld.
4.08	The Arbitrator’s decision shall be final and binding on the Company, the Union and the employee or the employees involved. The Arbitrator’s fee shall be divided equally between J.he-Company .and ,*he Llwon.
4.09	If clarification of the Arbitrator’s decision is deemed necessary, either party may request clarification from the Arbitrator and a copy of the request shall
11
be given to the other party. The requesting party shall pay the cost of any such clarification.
4.10	Members of the grievance committee and shop stewards shall be permitted to leave their work for a reasonable time during the regular working hours to devote their time to the handling of registered grievances and not other Union activities.
The President, Vice-President, and Recording Secretary, Financial Secretary and Treasurer may be excused from their regular duties for a reasonable period of time to attend the regular Union meeting, provided notice is given to the Company not less than forty-eight (48) hours prior to the meeting so as to secure a competent replacement(s).
4:11 Committeemen and Shop Stewards will be allowed to leave their work by reporting to their foreman and obtaining permission. A committeeman or steward will report to the foreman upon entering a department for adjusting grievances, and when leaving that department, and will also report to his own foreman when returning to his regular work. If the committeeman or steward follows the above procedure, the Company will pay the committeeman or steward for such time lost at his regular rate. The Company, however, reserves the right to refuse to pay a committeeman or steward for such time should the Company at any time be in a position to prove that the committeeman or steward does not carry out his business as expeditiously as possible or should he carry on any business other than Union grievance when carrying out his grievance procedure duties.
12
4.12	No grievance will be recognized or dealt with by the Company unless the procedure as set forth herein is followed. It shall be optional to the Company to consider any grievance that is lodged more than five (5) working days after the employee’s knowledge of the occurrence.
4.13	At any step of the Grievance Procedure, when the grievance is presented to the appropriate management representatives, the union representatives will be afforded the opportunity of discussing the grievance for a reasonable period of time with the designated management representatives.
4.1 A.Thf £iflttyaary,mr.th.‘* 3, In for. may	grievance
beginning at Step No. 3, the alleged circumstances of which occurred no more than five (5) working days prior to the lodging of a grievance, on any matter involving a policy or general practice.
4.15 Any employee who has been discharged or suspended requiring him to leave the plant, shall, if he so requests, be permitted to interview his committeeman or steward in the lunch room prior to leaving the premises of the Company. Any employee who has been discharged or suspended, instead of following the grievance step procedure, shall file his grievance in writing through the Union Grievance Committee at Step 3 within five (5) working days after the discharge or suspension as the case may be. Such a grievance may be settled by confirming the management’s action or by reinstating the employee with full compensation for time, lost, or by any other arrangement which is determined as just and equitable in the opinion of the parties or of the arbitrator.
13
the same day, in order of their actual times of being hired. Such a list will be kept up to date, revised at least every six (6) months, and checked by the Union Committee. When found to be correct it will be initialed by both parties and posted in a prominent place available to employees. Such a list shall also show all employees entitled-to recall privileges and their date of lay-off. Five (5) copies of the list will be given to the Union Committee.
5.05	The members of the Union Committee shall have the privilege of inspecting the master seniority list in the Personnel Office at any time.
5.06	In the event of an employee suffering a major disability or serious illness, exception may be made to the seniority provision of this Agreement in favour of such employee if agreed on between Management and the Union.
5.07	When transferring to a position not subject to the provisions of this Agreement an employee shall retain his seniority and if transferred back to a position subject to this Agreement seniority accumulating during the time served in the position not subject to this agreement shall be added. “Employees leaving the bargaining unit for more than three (3) months shall lose all bargaining unit seniority.”
5.08	Anyone transferring out of the bargaining unit for more than three (3) consecutive months shall first return on a job posting. For the purpose of this clause, no employee returning to the bargaining unit shall be allowed to fill a job that was newly created at the time
15
of his return. Employees filling in for non-bargaining unit employees on vacation, sickness or for overtime purposes shall not have such time counted against their three(3) months or once per year.
A letter giving the dates of transfers out of the bargaining unit shall be given to the Union President at the time of such transfer. It is also understood that the time limit of three (3) months for sickness may be extended by mutual agreement. In no way may an employee be transferred more often than once in a one year period.
LOSS OF SENIORITY
5.09	Seniority rights shall cease for any of the following reasons:
(a)	If employee quits.
(b)	If the employee is discharged and such discharge is not reversed through the grievance procedure.
(c)	if the employee is absent from work for three consecutive working days without notifying the Company giving satisfactory reasons unless employee provides a reason satisfactory to the employer for his/her failure to notify.
(d)	If the employee fails to report for work within five (5) working days after notification to do so has been sent by registered mail to his address on record with the Company’s employment department.
(e)	in the case of non-employment by the Company for
16
a period of time equal to the employee’s seniority with a minimum of eighteen (18) consecutive months and a maximum of thirty-six (36) consecutive months except in the case of extended sickness.
Employees with ten (10) or more years of seniority shall have unrestricted recall rights.
Employees must maintain contact with the Company and provide notification of address changes.
(f)	If the employee has been absent on sick leave for a continuous period equal to the seniority he has acquired at the time of the beginning of such sick leave. Employees who have completed their probationary period but have less than one year seniority at the start of their sick leave shall be entitled to one (I) year leave. Any sick leave may be extended by mutual agreement.
(g)	An employee who accepts other employment which interferes with his employment with the Company, excluding such other employment when laid off from the Company.
(h)	If the employee fails to return to work on the first scheduled work day immediately following the expiration of a leave of absence, unless such leave of absence has been extended by the Company or delay is due to an emergency.
LAY-OFF
5.10	Notification of Lay-Off: When a lay-off lasting more than five (5) days is about to become effective,
the Union President will be notified in writing at least four (4) days in advance, and the employees to be laid off will be notified at least three (3) days in advance or, in lieu of notice, they will receive twenty (20) hours pay. The Union President will be notified in writing of all lay-offs lasting five (5) days or less on the day the lay-off becomes effective, but before employees concerned are notified.
5.11	Lay-off such number of employees as may be necessary from among those who have acquired seniority rank, according to the following procedure:
An employee who loses his job in this way or who is displace by a more senior employee will be assigned to any bargaining unit job of their choice provided they have more plant seniority than the employee in the job and the necessary qualifications to perform the job.
5.12	(a) In the application of seniority to lay-off, employees selected to be retained on the basis of their seniority must have the ability to do the work available satisfactorily and make satisfactory progress towards meeting average production within a reasonable period of time which will be forty (40) working hours. If there is a dispute over “satisfactory progress”, the employee will upon request be granted an additional forty (40) working hours trial period. In no event shall a reasonable period of time exceed a period of eight (80) working hours and an employee who elects to and does try and is not satisfactory shall then be laid off in accordance with the provision of 5.11 and no employee then assigned to such work shall have any claim to retroactive pay for such period.
18
5.12	(b) It is understood that vacancies as a result of lay-off will not be posted at time of recall, (if employees are available for recall to the job and if that job was vacant for less than sixty (60) working days,) employees who formerly held such jobs shall be placed in these vacancies. If the employee chooses to, he may at his own request stay in the job which he bumped into at the time of lay-off (sixty (60) days will only be renewed if the employee holds such a job for sixteen (16) or more consecutive work days.)
If a senior employee was not given the oportunity to bump into a job at the time of lay-off, he may do so at this time.
5.13	It is understood and agreed by both parties that the Company will not be obliged to consider any grievances as to an improper lay-off which is not filed within ten (10) days of the time of notice of such lay-off notice.
5.1	A	the President of
the Union will be continued at work while work is available within the Plant provided he can perform the available work.
RECALL
5.15	When recalls are made after such lay-off the committee will be given the names of the employees to be recalled as far m advance as possible in order that they can check the seniority list to make sure the employees are recalled in proper order.
19
5.16	It is understood and agreed by both parties that the Company will not be obliged to consider any grievances as to an improper recall which is not filed within ten (I 0) days of the time of notice of such recall.
5.17	Job Posting:
(a)	The Company will post all job vacancies, except as specified in 5.12(b), and temporary transfers of less than eleven (I I) working days, on an individual basis on the plant bulletin boards, stating all pertinent information about the vacacy (job, rate of pay, etc.) for three (3) working days for each shift. Any employee with seniority shall be at liberty to apply for such a job. Such job vacancies shall be tilled by the applicant having the greatest plantwide seniority and the required ability and qualifications to perform the work satisfactorily.
(b)	Temporary transfers shall be posted on the eighth day, or sooner, if an extension is required.
(c)	Employees absent due to illness, accident, leave of absence, lay-off or vacation may, within three (3) working days following their return to work from such absences, apply for vacancies posted during such absences. Applications must be filled out and presented to the Industrial Relations office.
5. 18 Notwithstanding the above, posted day-work vacancies shall be filled by the applicant with the greatest plant-wide seniority who has the required ability and qualifications to perform the work satisfacility.
5.19	Employees will make application for such vacan-
20
cies on a form supplied by the Company. These forms will be available at department offices and at the Personnel office.
Applications, duly completed will be placed in the Job Posting Box under the main bulletin board prior to the posted closing date and time. The President of the Union will be notified within twenty-four (24) hours of the name of the successful applicant. In case of a dispute as to the ability of the employee concerned for a promotion, he will be given a trial to rate his abilities. The length of the trial period shall be as follows and show on the Job Posting notice.
MAXIMUM NO. OF WORKING DAYS
Job Class
Trial Period
Group 8
Machinist/Tool Repair........................30 days	trial
Electrician..................................30 days	trial
Maintenance Mechanic.................  30	days	trial
Group 7
Group Leader............................30 days	trial
Inspector (Lab.)........................30 days	trial
Shipper-Receiver........................30 days	trial
Group 6
Set-Up..................................30 days	trial
Group 5
Material Man............................20 days	trial
Clean-up Maintenance....................20 days	trial
21
Group 5 (Con't)
Paint Set-Up.................................20 days	trial
Inspector-Receiving..........................20 days	trial
Pad Printer..................................20 days	trial
Blender......................................20 days	trial
Inspector....................................20 days	trial
Grinder......................................20 days	.trial
Group 4
Clean-Up.....................................15 days	trial
Trucker......................................15 days	trial
Storekeeper..................................15 days	trial
Floor Hand/Trucker...........................15 days	trial
Utility Man (Comp)...........................15 days	trial
Finisher (Comp)..............................15 days	trial
Moulder (Comp)...............................15 days	trial
Relief Operator (Comp).......................15 days	trial
Group 3
Checker......................................10 days	trial
Relief Operator (Inj.).......................10 days	trial
Machine Wiper..........................10	days	trial
Group 2
Injection Machine Operator....................5 days	trial
Sweeper.......................................5 days	trial
Length of trial period for any new job shall be subject to discussion with the Union.
5.20	Temporary Transfer
(a)	Temporary transfers lasting more than ten (10) working days must be posted in accordance with Article 5.17.
22
(b)	Temporary transfers shall not exceed thirty (30) working days except by mutual agreement by the Company and the Union.
(c)	If an employee is transferred to a higher rated job for one (I) hour or more during the course of a shift, he will receive the higher rate of pay for the entire shift.
(d)	An employee temporarily transferred to a lower pay classification than his own shall continue to receive his own rate of pay unless there is not work in his own classification, and then he shall take the rate of the job classification to which he is transferred. However, should an employee be temporarily assigned to another classification, at his own request, he shall be paid the rate for the classification.
LEAVE OF ABSENCE
5.21	Upon application to Management, and subject to operational requirements, leave of absence without pay may be granted to an employee on the seniority list without affecting the employee’s seniority for the following reasons:
(a)	Extended sickness.
(b)	Short term leave of absence for personal needs. Such leave shall not be unreasonably denied.
(c)	Employees elected or appointed to a position in the Union shall be granted a leave of absence not to exceed ten (10) consecutive work days. Any leave exceeding the ten (10) work days must be approved by the Plant
23
Manager. All requests for leaves must be submitted in writing giving proper advance notice.
5.22	Employees granted leave of absence will accumulate seniority and shall be thereafter employed when available according to the seniority list. Such leave of absence shall not exceed thirty (30) days on any one (1) occasion unless mutually agreed to by the Company and the Union.
5.23	The Company will advise the Union in writing of any application for leave of absence for a period in excess of thirty (30) days before acting on same.
5.24	Pregnancy Leave: Pregnancy Leave will be granted in accordance with the provisions of the Employment Standards Act.
5.25	Bereavement Pay: In the event of a death in the employee’s immediate family, he shall be protected against a loss of wages for a period not to exceed three (3) successive regularly scheduled work days commencing with the day of death and ending with the calendar day following the day of burial, unless attending the necessary contingent matters. To receive such pay the employee shall make written application on a form supplied by the Company when he returns to work. Pay shall be computed at a rate equal to eight (8) times his straight time-hourly rate. For the purpose of this section ““Immediate Family”” shall mean: Mother, Father, Mother-in-Law, Father-in-Law, Brother, Sister, Sister-in-Law, Brother-in-Law (sister or brother of current spouse), Wife, Husband, Children, Grandparents and Grandchildren of the employee, and Grandparent of a spouse.
24
5.26	Jury Duty: An employee, who is called to and reports for jury duty during a regularly scheduled work day shall be paid the difference, if any, between his daily jury pay (not including travel allowances and other reimbursement expenses) and eight times his regular straight time hourly rate, including shift premium but excluding overtime and other premiums. To receive such pay the employees shall furnish evidence of payment. An employee called for jury duty will be required to notify his supervisor in advance of the date he is required to report. This procedure does not apply to an employee who, without being summoned, volunteers for jury duty. An employee will suffer no loss in seniority while serving as a juror.
5.27	For the purpose of this Article, the present departments in the plant are as follows:
(a)	Injection Moulding Department
(b)	Compression Moulding Department
(c)	Shipping and Receiving Department
(d)	Maintenance and Machine Shop Department
(e)	Quality Control Department
ARTICLE VI - HEALTH AND SAFETY
6.01	The Company will recognize a Safety and Health Committee composed of representatives appointed from Management and one Committee Member from each shift in the Injection, Compression, and Maintenance Department to act in an advisory capacity to the Company in the promotion of safety and health throughout the plant.
25
6.02	The Company shall make reasonable provisions for the health and safety of the employees during the hours of their employment. Cleanliness and privacy in washrooms and toilets will be maintained at all times. Protective devices and other equipment necessary to protect employees from injury will be provided by the Company.
6.03	The Company will provide a cloakroom where the employees may hang their hats and coats and leave their lunch pails. A Lunch Room will be provided for the employees where they may eat their lunch in clean, pleasant surroundings.
6.04	The Union undertakes to assist the Company in its efforts to improve the accident record and to improve housekeeping.
ARTICLE VH - UNION NOTICES
7.01	The Company will provide for the use of the Union, bulletin boards in the plants of the Company, to be prepared and located by agreement between local management and local plant committee. It is agreed that the use by the Union of such boards shall be restricted to the posting thereon only of such notices as shall have received the prior approval of the Plant Manager of the Company, or his nominee. Such approval shall not be unreasonably withheld and such notices shall be restricted to those of the following types:
(a)	Notices of Union recreation, education and social affairs.
26
(b)	Notices of Union elections, appointments, results of elections and other official Union Business.
(c)	Committee Reports and notices of Union meetings.
ARTICLE Vin- REGULAR WORKING
HOURS AND OVERTIME
B.01 The regular work week for each hourly employee consists of five eight-hour shifts. However, this is not to be construed as a guarantee of full employment.
B.02 Three Shift Operations: The regular work week for employees on three shift operations shall be from 11:00 p.m. Sunday to 11:00 p.m. Friday in three eight hour shifts as follows: 11:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m., 7:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m. and 3:00 p.m. to 11:00 p.m. However, the schedule for any shift may be changed by mutual consent. For the purpose of overtime premium, Saturday will be from 11:00 p.m. Friday to 11:00 p.m. Saturday and Sunday will be from 11:00 p.m. Saturday to 11:00 p.m. Sunday.
8:03 Two Shift Operations: The regular work week for employees on two shift oeprations shall be from 7:00 a.m. Monday to 12:00 Midnight Friday in two eight and one half hour shifts as follows: 7:00 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. and 3:30 p.m. to 12 midnight, including a 30-minute unpaid lunch break on each shift. For the purpose of overtime premium, Saturday will be from 7:00 a.m. Saturday until 7:00 a.m. Sunday and Sunday will be from 7:00 a.m. Sunday until 7:00 a.m. Monday.
8.04	Day Work: The regular work week for employees filling designated "day work" vacancies shall be from
27
8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. including a one hour unpaid lunch break. These hours may be changed by mutual agreement. The hours of work for day work production employees will be 7:00 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. with a thirty (30) minute unpaid lunch period.
8.05	(a) Only those employees engaged on three (3) shift operations shall have a thirty (30) minute lunch period paid for by the Company.
(b)Where employees engaged on a three (3) shift operation are scheduled, or have their scheduled shift changed during a work week, on a day work schedule, they shall receive a thirty (30) minute lunch period paid for by the Company.
8.06	An employee who reports for work as usual and is sent home because no work is available, unless the stoppage is caused by an Act of God or conditions beyond the control of the Company, or unless he has been previously notified not to report for work at least seven (7) hours before he is scheduled to report, shall be paid the equivalent of four (4) hours work at his regular rate. However, alternate work must be accepted by the employee, when such work is made available by the Company, otherwise the employee will not be eligible to receive the four hours pay provided for above. Notwithstanding the payment requirements, an employee who notifies the employer prior to, or not later than one (1) hour into the shift shall be entitled to their own job upon arrival at work. If they arrive more than one hour late and have not so notified the employer, they shall be given fill-in work for the balance of the shift, if another employee has already been assigned to her/his
28
job due to the lateness of the employee and the failure to notify as outlined above.
8.07	All work performed on the day of observance of a paid holiday will be paid for at the rate of time and one-half, such payment to be in addition to the regular holiday pay. Should any statutory holiday fall on a Saturday or a Sunday the holiday may be observed on the Friday immediately preceding, or the Monday immediately following. The day of observance of a Holiday shall be posted at least one week in advance of the Holiday.
OVERTIME
8.08	It is recognized that the Company must on some occasions schedule overtime work in order to meet production schedules and the Company shall give notice of overtime as far in advance as is practical. Employees may be excused from working overtime if they present a reasonable excuse to their foreman.
8.09	(a) Opportunities for overtime work shall be equitably distributed among those normally performing the work. However, in all cases the Company may requite the most junior qualified employees to perform the required overtime work.
Provided they have the qualifications and the ability to do the job the overtime policy is as follows:
(1)	Vacancies to be filled within a specific department as per recording policy.
(2)	If vacancies can't be filled by personnel within a specific department, plantwide seniority will be used
29
weekend on an overtime basis and is absent any day or part day of the weekend without permission forfeits his opportunity to work the remainder of the weekend and the next weekend he would be entitled to work. This forfeiture does not preclude additional normal discipline. In the case everyone on the list is scheduled for overtime, the employee who has forfeited will return to the rotation and be eligible to work.
(b) Recording Policy: For the purpose of overtime recording the Company will maintain a rotating list by classification, shift and department that will determine who will be eligible for incidents of overtime. The equalization will start by asking the top seniority people first and rotate through the lowest seniority person and return again to the top. It will be the responsibility of management to ask employees to work when their turn comes up. If any employee refuses to work or is unavailable for work it shall be determined that their turn is fulfilled.
(7) Employees who leave the plant at the end of their regular Friday shift and who are subsequently scheduled and called to work either day of a weekend and refuse the overtime available, shall not be penalized or be considered as having fulfilled their overtime cycle. However, employees who accept the overtime available will be considered as having fulfilled their overtime cycle.
Employees called in to replace persons scheduled for overtime work and who accept shall not be considered as having fulfilled their overtime cycle.
31
8.10	An employee shall receive payment at the rate of time and one-half his regular hourly rate for all time worked over eight (8) hours in any one day, and for all time worked on Saturday, and double time for all time worked on Sunday.
8.yi'AU'overtime work on Sunday shall be on a voluntary basis, with employees willing to work the entire week-end (whether two (2) days or more) in their classification shall be given preference over those willing to work less than fie entire week-end. This also shall apply for call-in on the weekend.
8.12	An employee who is called in to work after the end xfi Yfis-regulsi sSaft ■wril'iwaflwvrminimum of four hours pay, unless he is advised, that he is to work overtime before he leaves the Company premises.
Holidays
8.13	Each employee in the bargaining unit will be paid for the following holidays:
Good Friday	August Civic	Holiday
Victoria Day	Labour Day
Dominion Day	Thanksgiving Day
and a Christmas holiday period each year as	set forth
below:
1993-	4 - Dec. 24 (unpaid), 27,28,29,30,31, Jan. 3
1994-	5 - Dec. 23 (unpaid), 26,27,28,29,30, Jan. 2
provided he qualifies under the following eligibility rules:
32
(a)	He has completed his probationary period as of the day of observance of the holiday, and
(b)	He worked and has time recorded on his regular’ time card for the last scheduled shift before the observance of the holiday and the next scheduled shift after the observance of the holiday, unless absent with a reasonable excuse, or
(c)	He has been laid off in a reduction of workers with-
in two weeks (for purpose of Christmas holidays to read three (3)	or has gone on approved sick
leave within one (1) month immediately prior to the day of observance of the holiday.
8.14	An employee on vacation when a paid holiday is observed will receive pay for such holiday and in addition, upon request, a day off (i.e. without pay). Such day to be mutually agreed upon by the employee and the foreman involved. No request will be unreasonably denied.
ARTICLE IX - WAGE RATES
9.01	Basic wage rates are to be in accordance with Schedule “A” and said rates shall remain in effect for the life (unless changed by mutual consent) of the Agreement, except as otherwise specified.
9.02	Employees currently receiving a rate of pay in excess of the maximum of their classes shall continue to receive such rates until such time as they are transferred, promoted, or demoted to another job classification.
33
9.03	The Company agrees that employees who are injured while at work, go to a doctor and are unable to return to work because of the injury shall be paid for the balance of the shift. The Company will provide transportation to/ffom doctor, hospital, plant or home.
9.04	Night Shift Premium: Any employee who worked on any shift commencing after 1:00 p.m. will be paid a shift premium of thirty-five (35) cents per hour. Any employee who works on any shift commencing after 10:00 p.m. will be paid a night shift premium of forty (40) cents per hour.
9.05	The Job Description Review Committee consisting of the Union President, Vice-president and one other member of the bargaining unit selected by the Union, and three (3) members of Management, shall continue to operate throughout the life of this agreement. The Committee will review and update all Job Descriptions and sign and post those which are accepted by both parties.
9.06	New Classifications
(a)	Wiuiin fifteen f \5)-bays'!ollowing the establishment of a classification by the Company not shown in the agreement, the Job Description Review Committee shall review the occupational summary of the job and the wage grouping to which it has been assigned.
New or changed classifications will be evaluated in accordance with the Steelworker Evaluation System in its present form.
(b)	If the Job Description Review Committee cannot agree on a new classification or its grouping, the following procedure will be used.
34
(i)	The Union may lodge an appeal in writing to the Plant Manager or his nominee.
(ii)	The appeal shall outline the reason or reasons for disputing the description and the classification grouping and these shall be the only subject of appeal.
(iii)	Failing a satisfactory disposition of the appeal, either party may refer the matter to arbitration.
ARTICLE X - VACATION WITH PAY
10.01	Employees with one year continuous service but less than five (5) years and who have worked the required minimum hours during the vacation year will receive two (2) weeks vacation with pay, and such pay will be eighty times their regular hourly rate or 4% of earnings, whichever is greater, but in no case shall the employee receive less than the amount required by law.
10.02	Employees with five (5) years continuous service but less than twelve (12) years and who have worked the required minimum hours during the vacation year will receive three weeks vacation with pay, and such pay will be one hundred and twenty times their regular hourly rate or 6% of earnings, whichever is greater. The time of the third week vacation is to be mutually agreed upon by the Company and the employees concerned.
10.03	Employees with twelve (12) years continuous service but less than twenty (20) years who have worked the required minimum hours during the vacation year will receive four weeks vacation with pay,
35
and such pay will be one hundred and sixty times their regular hourly rate or 8% of earnings, whichever is greater. The time of the third and fourth weeks vacation is to be mutually agreed upon by the Company and the employee concerned.
10.04	(a) Employees with twenty (20) years continuous service but less than thirty (30) years and who have worked the required minimum hours during the vacation year will receive five (5) weeks with pay, and such pay will be two hundred times their regular hourly rate or 10% of earnings, whichever is greater. The time of the third, fourth and fifth week of vacation is to be mutually agreed upon by the Company and the employee concerned.
(b) Employees with thirty (30) years or more continuous service and who have worked the required minimum hours during the vacation year will receive six (6) weeks with pay, and such pay will be two hundred and forty times their regular hourly rate or 12% of earnings, whichever is greater. The time of the third, fourth, fifth and sixth week of vacation is to be mutually agreed upon by the Company and the employee concerned.
10.05	(a) The required minimum number of hours worked during the vacation year will be 1100 hours and for the purpose of calculating the minimum hours worked, overtime hours and paid holiday, vacation, reporting pay hours and call in pay hours shall be considered as straight time hours worked.
(b) An employee whose hours worked is less than the minimum hours required for entitlement to full vacation pay by virture of having been on Worker’s Compensation benefits from an injury or disease sus-
36
tained in the course of his employment with the Company, shall be credited to the 1100 hours minimum, provided he has worked at least eighty (80) hours in the period provided in 10.08. The above will only apply to employees who return to work during the vacation year in question.
10.06	Employees with less than one year of service shall receive vacation pay in accordance with the Employment Standards Act (in Ontario).
10.07	Employees with more than one year of service but less than the required minimum number of hours worked shall receive vacation pay as follows:
1 but less than five years of service 4% of earnings
5 but less than 12 years of service 6% of earnings
12 but less than 20 years of service '8% of earnings
20 but less than 30 years of service 10% of earnings
30 or more years of service 12% of earnings
Earnings shall be calculated to include all normal and overtime wages, any hours or incentive wages, as well as vacation pay, holiday pay, reporting pay, or call in pay received ttafiTrg‘hit var<riitriT year.
37
10.08	When calculating the length of service of employees, calculations will be based as at June 30th.
10.09	Employees entitled to vacation will take their holidays during the period of the plant shut down. This period will be determined by the Company. The Company will post vacation dates three months in advance of vacation period whenever possible.
Employees entitled to vacation shall have the opportunity to take their holidays during June, July, August, and September (this however does not mean that vacation must be taken during these months). Employees must request their vacation in writing to their immediate supervisor. The Supervisor will approve or disapprove vacation in writing within ten (10) working days, Failure to respond within this time span shall be considered approval. No request for vacation shall be unreasonably denied.
Employees may receive their vacation pay at the time they actually take vacation or in the established manner, with the following conditions:
-	must be approved two (2) weeks in advance of date to be paid.
-	minimum request for one (1) work week.
-	payout cannot exceed the total accumulated vacation amount
ARTICLE XI - PENSIONS
(a) The Pension Plan program as agreed to by the Company and the Union is set out as a supplement to Schedule "B" and forms part of this agreement.
38
The changes are as follows:
No Max on Years of Service Basic Pension effective July 18,1993...S25.00 Basic Pension effective September 1,1994...$28.00 Supplement effective:
September 1,1993 and 1994...$22.00
Retirement Age - 62.
A year for full credited service is 1100 hours worked. An employee who falls short of the 1100 hours required for entitlement to full pension credit by virtue of hay.jpg.been on Worker’s Compensation benefits from an injury or disease sustained in the course of his employment with the Company, shall be credited to the 1100 hours minimum, provided he has worked at least eighty (80) hours during the pension year.
-	Ail Retirees’ benefits will be paid until age 65.
-	Maximum of thirty (30) years for supplementary payments.
I - Automatic survivors pension for active employees at 60% of basic pension.
(b)	Persons retiring during the life of this agreement will receive an additional $50 per month for the first 2 years of retirement over and above their regular pension. This clause does not apply to those who exercise the option identified in Article XI (c) below.
(c)	Persons who have completed 30 years of service
39
prior to age 62 and wish to retire may do so with a reduced pension as per current plan documents. Such persons shall be paid a lump sum equal to the amount by which their pension is reduced between the date of retirement and age 62 to a maximum of $5,000.
The amount of the pension reduction will be determined by actuarial calculation.
ARTICLE XII - INSURANCE BENEFITS
12.01	The Company at its sole expense will grant Semi-Private Coverage to all employees, other than probationary employees, and to their eligible dependents as defined in the said plan.
12.02	The Company at its sole expense will grant the medical plan of the Ontario Health Insurance Plan to all employees, other than probationary employees, and to their eligible dependents in the said plan.
12.03	The Company at its sole expense will pay the entire cost of the benefits mentioned in 12.01 and 12.02 but in case of legislative or other cases resulting in the decrease of premiums the credit shall flow to the Company provided the coverage would not be lessened.
12.04	The Company will grant a Drug Plan, with $20 and $10 deductible for married or single employees respectively, to all employees other than probationary employees, and to their eligible dependents as defined in die said plan. The Company further agrees to pay for any increase in cost during the life of the Agreement.
40
12.05	Group Life Insurance Benefits available to the employees covered by this agreement are as follows, effective September 1,1993:
Weekly Indemnity Coverage - The Company will provide at its sole expense W.I. Insurance egual to 60% of the employee’s base earnings to the UIC maximum from the first day of accident, fourth day of sickness up to a maximum of 26 weeks.
Long term Disability - Effective July 18, 1993 the
Company will provide, at its sole expense, Long Term Disability (55% of regular pay to age 65). The Long Term Disability payments are offset by any disability payments received from any other source (for the same disability) the employee may be in receipt of. Disability will only cease on the death, retirement or attaining age of 65 of the employee.
-	It is further agreed that the Company will provide for employees going on Workers’ Compensation to apply for and draw Sick Pay until Compensation is paid out.
-	The Company shall also provide a copy of all correspondence regarding Workers’ Compensation of Union members to the Union President at time of mailing.
Term Life Insurance and A.D. & D.
For Each Employee
-	$19,000 effective September 1,1993.
-	$20,000 effective September 1,1994.
41
Dental Plan
The Company will provide at its sole expense the Basic Green Shield Dental Plan as follows: (a) effective September I, 1992, based on the 1991 O.D.A. fee schedule;
The employee must have one year seniority to be eligible for this plan.
12.06	Maternity benefits will now be provided by the Canada Employment and Immigration Commission.
12.07	Present pensioners and employees retiring on or after September 1,1974, under the hourly employees’ Pension Plan will be provided with $8,500.00 Life Insurance effective September 1, 1991 and $9,000 effective September, 1992.
12.08	Vision Care
Effective September 1,1992 the Company will provide $100 every two years (employees only) toward the cost of prescription eyeglasses.
ARTICLES XIII
- COST OF LIVING ALLOWANCE
13.01	The Cost of Living Allowance which is based upon the DBS Consumer Price Index (1981 = 100) shall be operative during the life of this agreement.
(a) Based on the Consumer Price Index of July, 1993,
compared to the Consumer Price Index for April, 1993,
42
the Company will pay an amount based on one (1) cent per hour for each increase of .35 in the DBS Consumer Price Index. This amount will be effective the first complete pay period in September, 1993.
(b) The Index is to be reviewed quarterly and revisions in the Cost of Living Allowance will take effect the first complete pay period of the months of December, 1993, March, 1994, and June, 1994, September, 1994, December, 1994, March 1995, June, 1995.
The Cost of Living Allowance will be rolled into the base at September 1,1995.
ARTICLE XIV - GENERAL
14.01	The Company agrees that certain privileges enjoyed by employees in the past will be continued. These privileges are specifically:
(a)	Where working conditions require a wash-up period, five minutes will be allowed by the Company before quitting time both at noon and at night.
(b)	A ten minute rest period in the morning and in the afternoon.
14.02	Employees who abuse either the wash-up period or rest period may be penalized. Moreover, after being warned, employees may be discharged on grounds of insubordination.
14.03	Wherever throughout this agreement the masculine gender is used it shall be deemed to mean female
43
as well as male employees, unless otherwise specifically stated.
14.04	The Company will pay all employees weekly. Payroll errors of ten (1 O') dollars or more will be ad justed immediately by cash or cheque. Errors of less than ten (10) dollars will be adjusted on the next input. If such adjustment is not made at that time, it will be adjusted immediately thereafter by cash or cheque.
14.05	(a) The Company agrees not to contract out any work which is to be performed within the Plant and normally done by members of the Bargaining Unit, except in those cases where there are insufficient skills, manpower, equipment, or time and in any case only after prior notification to the Union President.
(b)	The performance of such work by an outside contractor on the plant premises will not as a direct and immediate result cause a seniority member who customarily performs the work to be laid off.
(c)	The foregoing shall not affect or restrict the right of the Company to continue arrangements currently in effect; nor shall it limit the fulfillment of warranty obligations by vendors or suppliers, nor limit work which a vendor must perform to prove out, maintain and service the equipment.
14.06	The following are the guidelines for purchase of Safety Shoes:
- The Company portion will only be applied when the shoes have been purchased for the employee’s own use within the plant.
44
-	It is not necessary to purchase the shoes from the Safety Truck, but if they are purchased elsewhere, the shoes alone with the receipt must be brought to the Industrial Relations office in order to obtain your refund.
-	The Company portion will be based on a twejve month period from the date of the last purchase.
-	It is mandatory for everyone in the following classifications to wear Safety Shoes: Group Leaders, Moulders, Set-up, Trucker.FIoor Hand/Trucker, Maintenance Machine Shop, and Material Man.
-	The following dollar values will be applied:
$100.00- Group Leaders (except Dec. area)
Group Leaders - Compression Moulders - Compression Set-Up Trucker
Floor Hand/Trucker
Maintenance - Machine Shop
Wipers
Utility Man
Paint Set-Up
Material Men
Shipping
Grinders
Clean-Up
$30.00 - Checkers
Quality Control Direct Employees
45
14.07	International Aid and Development
The company agrees to deduct on a weekly basis the amount of (not less than $0.01 per hour from the wages of all employees in the bargaining unit for all hours worked and to pay the amount so deducted to the “Humanity Fund” and to forward such payment to United Steelworkers of America National Office, 234 Eglinton Avenue East, Toronto, Ontario, M4P 1K7, and to advise in writing the amount of such payment and the names of all employees in the bargaining unit on whose behalf such payment has been made.
Until such time as the Company utilizes a payroll system capable of the deduction outline above, the deduction shall be set at $0.40 per week for employees in the bargaining unit.
It is understood and agreed that participation by an employee in the bargaining unit in the program of deductions set forth above may be discontinued by any employee in the bargaining unit after the receipt by the Company and the local Union of that employee’s written statement of his/her desire to discontinue such deductions from his/her pay which may be received during the four weeks following ratification of this agreement or at any time thereafter.
14.08	Modified Work Programme
The Company shall implement a Modified Work Programme to assist injured or infirm employees to return to full duties as soon as possible.
46
14.09	Training
The Company and the Union, at either party’s request, shall from time to time, identify the training needs of employees and arrange training accordingly. Employees are required to participate in such training. All reasonable efforts will be made to minimize inconvenience or hardship.
ARTICLE XV - DURATION OF AGREEMENT
15.01	This agreement shall become effective as ol September 1. 1993. and shall remain in effect unti midnight August 3 1,1995. it shall continue in effect for a further year without change and so on from year to year thereafter unless either party gives to the othei party written notice of termination or of a desire to amend the agreement.
15.02	Notice that amendments are required or that either party intends to terminate the agreement must be given in writing to the other party within ninety (90) days prior to the expiration date of this agreement.
15.03	If notice of amendment or of termination is given by either party the other party agrees to meet for the purpose of negotiations within ten days after the giving of such notice if requested to do so.
15.04	It is understood that during any negotiations following upon notice of termination or notice of amendment either party may bring forward counter proposals rising out of or related to the original proposals.
47
APPRENTICESHIP
Trades:
Electrician, Machinists and Millwright.
Duration of Program:
To be in accordance with the Ontario Apprenticeship Programme.
Apprenticeship Selection:
1)	The employer shall not hire apprentices from outside of the bargaining unit unless there are no internal applicants.
2)	Applicants must have successfully completed grade 10 (ten).
3)	Seniority shall be the prime determination factor provided the applicant has sufficient related ability and skill.
4)	Apprentices shall not be bumped on lay-offs of five days or less.
Indentureship:
Applicants are required to comply with the training as laid out jointly by the Ontario Ministry of Skills Development and that of the Company. Failure to successfully complete required coursework or maintain satisfactory progress will result in termination from the programme.
After the satisfactory completion of each period,
48
Company management will sign their approval to documents as provided by the Ministry of Skills Development stating that the apprentice has satisfactorily completed all the necessary period, attended trade school as required and passed all examinations to the standards as laid down by the Ministry of Skills Development.
Seniority: This will be based on length of time in the Apprenticeship programme and not plant wide seniority-
In regards to layoffs, Apprentices will be laid off before tradesmen in their respective classification.
Rates of Pay:
During the first year of apprenticeship, apprentices will be paid in accordance with the schedule established by the-Ontario Ministry of Skills Development, or their previous rate of pay, whichever is the greater. During each of the second and subsequent years of apprenticeship, apprentices will receive one-third of the difference between their current rate and the base rate for their trade (Group 8).
When the employee is attending the trade school portion the Company will pay the difference in rate between that paid by the school and his normal plant rate.
Orientation Program
It is agreed that the Local Union President or his 49
designee may explain the rights and obligations of the bargaining relationship to new hires as soon as possible after they are hired.
Letters of Understanding
Subject: Assignment of Senior Employees
Subject to operational requirements, senior employees shall be utilized for such tasks as re-work, floor positions, inside and outside clean up, etc. within their department.
The Company will allow the Union President to have and maintain fde cabinets in a locked enclosed area of the facility. The Company will also allow the Union President access to a private telephone when necessary for use pertaining to Union business.
Subject: Set Ups in Compression Department
It is understood and agreed by the Company and the Union that setups in the Compression Department shall be performed by senior operators from the press working under the direction of the group leader and then by people in the department.
The Utility position shall be filled first by senior people on the line and then by people in the department.
If a situation arises where the employer may want to move employees from shift to shift (other than the normal Midnight, Afternoon, Days rotation of employees) and one or more of the affected employees oppose such move, the Company shall meet with the Union to
50
attempt to resolve all issues regarding the need to so move employees. It may be necessary, if either party feels it would help, to include the opposing employees who may be involved in such moves.
Subject:
Overtime Indirect/Direct Ratio for Weekend Work
It is understood by the Company and the Union in regards to overtime indirect/direct ratio, that the existing practice of conferring with the Union before finalizing the overtime shift will continue.
Letter of Agreement
The new system that was talked about between the Company and the Union and put on a temporary trial, where we decided to try:
4 Group Leaders
4	Floor Hand/Trucker
5	Relief Operators 4 Checkers
1	Trucker
2	Set-Up People I Inspector
1	Clean Up and
2	Material People (could go to 1 if most of the
machines go to McGuire Feeders)
Per Shift
After trying this system and asking the people that are involved to give their input, we (Company and Union) decided to go ahead with this.
51
To show all the people that are involved in this change that the Company is not out to cut their jobs, the Company agrees that they shall maintain the number of people in the above listed jobs, as long as there isn’t a big cutback in production orders or extenuating circumstances (massive absenteeism, etc.) that require manpower adjustment. The company has agreed to sign this Letter of Agreement and it shall stay in effect for the duration of our contract, until August 3 1/95.
52
Signed at Gananoque, Ontario, August 31,1993
FOR THE COMPANY: LARRY PHILLIPS RANDY WHITE PETER WALKER SUSAN JONES DREW BARSS
FOR THE vINION: CHRIS STEACY JIM KEYES LINDA ROMBOUGH ALLEN COOK JAMES STEWART
53
Group 3 Checker
Relief Operator (Inj)	14.04	14.18	14.46	14.60 plus COLA*
Machine Wiper
Group 2
Injection Machine Operator	13.72	13.86	14.14	14.28	plus COLA*
Sweeper
Group 1
Probationary Rate	9.83	9.93	10.13	10.23	plus COLA*
With 50c/hour increase every 60 days of work to top of classification.
Notes:
(a)	Employees in classifications with rate spread shall be entitled to automatic increase to next higher increment, subject to satisfactory performance and progress:
(i) After six (6) months in Group 6.7.8
(b)	COLA*. See Article XIII