C__________are
Dated: February 01,1992 Ending: January 31,1994 Between:
A.R. Clarke & Co. Ltd. Toronto, Ontario
And:
United Food And Commercial Workers Union CLC, AFL-CIO, Local 175
Local 175
00780 (06)
Name.........
Address......
Phone .......
Soc. Ins. No.... Work Address. Work Phone.... Union Steward Phone .......
United Food & Commercial Workers U.F.C.W. Locals 175/633 2200 Argentia Road Mississauga, Ontario L5N 2K7 Phone: (416) 821-8329
Toll-free outside Metro Toronto 1-800-565-8329 Fax (416) 821-7144
*
UNITED FOOD & COMMERCIAL WORKERS
The United Food and Commercial Workers is one of the largest, most powerful and respected unions in North America. You are one of 170,000 members in Canada and 1,300,000 members in North America.
The UFCW is the result of a' merger between to of the oldest and most respected unions in North America; the Amalgamated Meat Cutters and Butcher Workmen of North America and the Retail Clerks International Union. This mergertook place on June 6,1979. The new union represents workers i n nearly all aspects of Canadian life and is mirrored in the makeup of Locals 175/633.
U.F.C.W. LOCALS 175/633
Your local union, with over 44,000 members, isthe largest UFCW local union, and the largest local union of any union in Canada. Your local is larger than the majority of unions in North America.
This Local has the expertise, financial stability and resources to provide you, the member, with the best negotiating team, the best egal assistance, and the best all around service of any union in the country.
What You Get For Yoir Union Dues
• Higherthan average wages and benefits. According to recent government statistics, unionized workers mate, on average, 38% more in wages and benefits than non-union workers in the same industries. This fact alone makes your union dues an outstanding investment in your future.

Job Security. Your Union will not let you be fired or disciplined without just cause, and it is up to management to prove just cause. Every year the Union spends tens of thousands of dollars in grievance and arbitration expenses just to protect your rights. f you are unjustly discharged, your Union wil spare no expense in getting you back to work. Does a non-union worker have that kind of security?
•	Grievance Procedure. Even the smallest contract rights are vitally important to your Union. Did you deserve a promotionand not get it?Aie non-bargaining unit people doing your work? \Afete your bumping rights ignored? Is your sick pay late in coming? Have you been unfairlydisciplined for a very minor mistake?The Grievance Procedure allows the Union to go to bat for you. In a non-union workplace you have no rig hts except what management chooses to allow you.
•	Problems with Workers’ Compensation or UIC? The Union employs experts in cutting red tape and representing you to government agencies. These services are free to you, should you ever need them. Non-union workers are usually in the dark and out inthe cold inthese matters. They can only turn to expensive lawyers for help.
•	Pensions, Dental Insurance, Sick Fty, Disability Insurance, etc. Compare your benefits package with those of non-union friends and family. Should they be unable to work because of sickness or accident, would they trade their insurance protection for yours? You bet they would!
Add up what you paid in Union Dues last year (don’t forget that they are tax-deductible). Compare that amount with what you spent on such things as hobbies, cigarettes, beer, movies, cable television or “impulse” gifts.
NORTHWEST REGION
Mike Fraser
Regional Director
Dan Onichuk
Union Representative
Bill Kalka
Union Representative
REGIONAL OFFICE:
135 N. Syndicate, Suite 202, Thunder Bay, Ont, P7C 3V3 Phone: (807) 623-4551 Fax: (807) 623-6938 (800)465-6932
EASTERN REGION
Barry Bally
Regional Director
Warren Kennedy	Luc lacelle	Dan Lacroix
Union Representative Union Representative Union Representative
REGIONAL OFFICE:
20 Hamilton Ave. North, Ottawa, Ont. K1Y 1B6 Phone: (613) 725-2154 Fax: (613) 725-2328 (800)267-5295
SOUTHWEST REGION
Ron Springall
Regional Director
Wendy Absolom	Jack Colvin	Tim Oribine
Union Representative Union Representative Union Representative
A. G. Sherman	Garry Thayer Richard Woodruff
Union Representative Union Representative Union Representative
REGIONAL OFFICE:
124 Sydney St. South, Kitchener, Ont. N2G 3V2 Phone: (519) 744-5231 Fax: (519) 744-8357 (800) 265-6345
TORONTO-NIAGARA REGION
Reg Baughan
Union Representative
Kathie Chrysler
Union Representative
John Fuller
Union Representative
Sharon Gall
Union Representative
REGIONAL OFFICE:
2200 Argentia Road Mississauga, Ontario L5N 2K7 Phone: (416)821-8329 Fax (416)821-7144 ' Toll-free outside Metro Toronto (800) 565-8329
TORONTO-NIAGARA REGION
James Hastings Union Representative A&P & MFM Chairman
Frank Kelly Union Representative
Jay Nair
Union Representative
Teresa Suppa Union Representative
Harry Sutton Union Representative
REGIONAL OFFICE:
2200 Argentia Road Mississauga, Ontario L5N 2K7 Phone: (416) 821-8329 Fax (416) 821-7144 Toll-free outside Metro Toronto (800)565-8329
MID-NORTH REGION
Jerry Clifford
Union Representative
Joe Daignault
Union Representative
Ian Miller
Union Representative
Don Morin
Union Representative
REGIONAL OFFICE:
81 Mill Street, Box 150, Frankford, Ont. KOK 2C0 Phone: (613) 398-6156	Fax: (613) 398-8665
Watts: 1-800-267-8046
ORGANIZING TEAM
(416)821-8329	(800) 565-8329
Susan Bayne
Organizer
Mary Duchesne
Co-ordinator,
Organizing
John Clark
Organizer
Michael Duden	C. W, Richardson
Organizer	Organizer
TECHNICAL OPERATIONS
(416) 821-8329 I 565-8329
Patrick Hayes	Herb MacDonald
Communications	Benefits Co-ordinator
Maureen McCarthy
Benefits Department
WHAT IS A UNION STEWARD?
A Union Steward is an elected front-line representative of the United Food and Commercial Workers. It is his or her duty to give you advice on your rights and to represent you to management in the first stage of the grievance procedure.
Bring any suspected violation of this agreement to the attention of the Union Steward as soon as possible, because time limits may be important in winning your grievance. A
Union Steward cannot work miracles and solve your problem on the spot, but he or she will either give you an answer or find out the answer to your problem by contacting the Union Representative.
Union Stewards are all volunteers. They receive no pay for their important work and have a lot of responsibility.Treat them with consideration, as you would any friend who tries to assist you.
Never ask your Union Steward to look into a violation of your contract rights unless you are willing to file a grievance if necessary. Their time is as important as yours. Your Steward can assist you in winning your rights under this collective agreement, but only if you are willing to see it through.
Despite the trouble involved in the job, being a Union Steward can be a rewarding and educational experience. If you’re not afraid to ask that your legal contract rights be respected by management and if you also enjoy helping people, talk to your Union Representative. You might make a good Union Steward.
UNION SCHOLARSHIPS FOR HIGHER EDUCATION
Unions believe that colleges and universitiesshould be open to all qualified students, regardless of their income. Education at all levels is a social investment in the future which yields the greatest returns.
Scholarships can help. The United Food and Commercial Workers Union have three scholarship programs available to all members and their children. The International Union annually awards $80,000 to 22 applicants across North America. These are the James A. Suffridge Fund and the Earl W. Jimerson Scholarship.
UFCW Canada also awards a number of William J. Beggs, Fred Dowling and Romeo Mattieu Scholarships every year to Canadian members and their children. These grants are worth $500 each.
UFCW Locals175/633 award MattieMcKay and Pat Thompson Scholarships worth up to a maximum of $750 each.
Local members have been frequent scholarship winners in the past and it is hoped that this good fortune will continue. In order to compete, applications must be sent in well ahead of time.
Applications for the UFCW International Union Scholarships must be submitted by December31 of the year before you plan to enter a post secondary institution.
Forthe Beggs, Dowling, Mathieu Scholarships,you must apply before September of the year you first enter college or university.
The deadline for the MattieMcKay-Pat Thompson Scholarship is August 1 of the year you plan to enter post secondary education.
There are a limited number of scholarships available, so everyone who needs and deserves one cannot always receive one. However, you will never get one unless you apply. Call or write the UFCW, Locals 175/633, Education Committee for details.
Good Luck!
THE OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH & SAFETY ACT
Most work-related disabilities can be avoided if both management and workers live up to their responsibilitiesunder Ontario's Occupational Health and Safety Act Here is a quick guide to the Act (Bill 70). For details, refer to the Act itself, which is found in the small green book which must be posted in every workplace.
Employer’s Duties
Among other things, the employer must:
•	Provide information, instruction and training so that the employee can work in a safe manner.
•	Acquaint the worker with any workplace hazard.
■ Appoint a competent person as supervisor.
a Co-operatewith and assist the health and safety committee and representative.
•	Take every precaution reasonable for the protection of the worker. Supervisor’s Duties
In stores, the Supervisor is normally the Store Manager. He must: a Ensure that the worker works in a safe manner and uses all the equipment, protective devices or clothing that is required.
•	Advise a worker of any potential or actual danger to health and safety. a Provide written safety instructions, where required.
a Be familiar with the Act and regulations.
Note: Department Heads in the bargaining unit must also ensure that workers work in a safe manner, as above, but they cannot disciplineworkers who refuse, for example, to wear safety equipment. If a meat manager is unable to convince a fellow worker to wear a mesh apron when he is required to do so, he should simply report the situation to the Store Manager.
Workers’ Obligations
a Use all safety equipment and wear all protective clothing required by the employer.
a Report any potentially unsafe condition or defect in safety equipmentto your Supervisor.
a Obey the Health and Safety law and all regulations and report any violations of the law or regulations to your Supervisor.
Workers may not:
•	Remove or turn off any safety device.
•	Use any equipment or work in a manner which may endanger yourself or another worker.
•	Engage in horseplay of any kind.
The Right to Refuse Unsafe Work
Fyou encounter an unsafe condition at work, your first obligation is to report it to your Supervisor, Once you have done that, you may refuse to work at a job or task where you have reason to believe that:
•	Any machine or equipment you are supposed to use is likely to endanger yourself or another worker, or
•	The condition of the workplace itself is hazardous.
You must promptly notify your Supervisor of your refusal. K must then investigatethe matter in your presence and that ofa healthand safety representative of the workers (normallythe Steward or a member of the Health & Safety Committee). If the Supervisor orders you back to work and you are still not satisfied that the job issafe, you may continue to refuse to work, providedyou have reasonable grounds to believe the condition still constitutes a hazard.
A this point, the Inspectorfrom the Ministry of Labour must be called in. While you are waiting for him, the Supervisor can request that someone else perform the job provided that he is informed that the job was refused and the reasons for the refusal. This second worker also hasthe same right to refuse. The refusing worker maybe assigned reasonablealternative work, subject to the Collective Agreement.
The decision of the Inspector is final. Although his order may be appealed, you must return to the job if he so orders, pending the outcome of such appeal.
WORKERS’ ’
The Workers' Compensation Board (WCB) is an employer-paid insurance programthat protects workers against loss of income due to job-relateddisabili-ties. Here are answers to the most commonly asked questions about WCB benefits:
What do Ido if I have an accident at work? All accidents, even minor ones, must be reported to management immediately. Ifthe accident is serious enough to leave work, you must seek medical attention as soon as possible. Accidents which only require a short recovery period or simple first aid must be recorded in the first aid book, which every workplace is required by law to have.
What forms must be filled out to receive compensation? Two forms are essential in orderto receive WCB benefits. First, the yellow “Employer’s Report of Accident or Industrial Diseases” must befilledout by management if, and only if:
(a)	You consult a doctor about your work-related disability, and/or
(b)	You lose work time beyond the day of the accident.
Please note that you do not have to actually lose time from work in orderto initiate a WCB claim. Even if you consult a doctor and are sent back to work the next day, your employer must file their report. This is known as a "No Lost Time” claim.
The second form is a pink form called “Doctors First Report”. There should be a supply of these at your workplace and most doctors and hospitals will have them as well. This is filled out by your doctor at the time of your first visit for your disability. The doctor sends this form directly to the WCB.
What are WCB benefits worth? Oncenour claim is allowed, you will receive 90% of your net pre-accident earnings. WfiiB benefitsare non-taxable. Maximum insurableearningsare 175% of the average industrialwage. This isre-calculated every year based on stats publicized by Statistics Canada. WCB cheques are sent every two weeks. A normal accident claim will take from four to six weeks to process before you begin receiving benefits, assuming that the two important forms are submitted right away.
How long do WCB benefits last? Most people who have workplace accidents are back to work within six weeks. Serious injuries can take months or even years to recover from. For between one year and eighteen months if you are judged to be totally disabled and the disability is considered temporary, the WCB will continue to fray benefits. After that, a wage loss system will begin. Fyou are permanently injured, the WCB can awardyou a very small permanent pension for the pain and suffering caused by the injury and some wage loss compensation.
If you are injuredafter January 2,1990, you havearightto reemployment after the injury. This right lastsfor two years. Even if you have permanent limitationson your ability to work, you still have the right to return to work. There are four steps in this process.
1.	Fyou can do your old job without any restrictions, your employer hasto offer it to you.
2.	If you could do your old job if it were modified, then that has to be done.
3.	Ifyou can't do your old job even if it were changed, then your employer has to offer you another job.
4.	If you can do another job if it were modified, then your employer is required to do this.
What if Ihave a health problemthat is caused by my job but Id idn't have an accident at work? Back problems, tendonitis, carpaltunnel syndrome, Ring &Bag syndrome, etc., are just a few of the work-related disabilities suffered by UFCW members. Ifyou feel you may be in the non-accidental work-related disability category, first consultyour doctor. If he or she agreesthat your problem is or is likely to have been caused by your job, a Doctor’s First Report should be submitted right away. Informyour employer of your doctor’s opinion and ask that the Employer's Report of Accident or Industrial Disease be submitted. Your employer cannot refuse to fill out this form. Only the WCB can decide whether or not you have a legitimate claim.
What happens if my claim is turned down by the WCB? You can appeal an adverse decision by the WCB. The Unionwill assist you and represent you, without charge. Do not consult a lawyer, since their services are not free. The Union employs WCB experts to help you.
Wouldn’t I be better off claiming sick pay? In most cases, NO. However, if you have a non-accidentaldisability which requires you to take time off from work, consult the Union for advice.
Doesthe WCB cover part-timers? Yes. The same rules and benefits apply, regardless of the number of hours you work per week.
VWat if ny benefits are late or are cut off for some reason? Contact the Union office without delay. All WCB enquiries are treated in the strictest confidence.
Remember Never let managementtalkyou out of filing a WCB claim. \bu may regret it later, when your disability wont go am. Itis illegal for management to interfere with your right to make a WCB claim. IF you have any problems or concerns, contact the Union office.
UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE
Unemployment Insurance is not welfare. It is a system of providing partial income replacement for people who have an interruption of earnings. Both you and your employer pay weekly premiums to the Unemployment Insurance Commission and you are entitled to benefits if you meet certain eligibility requirements. You should apply for U.l. benefits if you fall into one of the following categories.
Laid off- Fyou are out of work due to lay-offand you have worked 20 weeks during the last 52 weeks, you are eligible for benefits. Ifyou worked between fourteen and nineteenweeks, you may be eligible and should still make a claim. You receive no money for the first two weeks of lay-offand your benefits will continue for upto 50 weeks. Your maximum benefit period may be less than 50 weeks, depending on a number of factors.
Discharged or Quit - Same eligibility rulesasfor layoff, but a disqualification may be applied in addition to the waiting period ifyou were fired for just cause or quit without good reason. This disqualification can be from seven to twelve weeks and will also result in a reduction in your benefit rate from 60% to 50%. You may appeal a disqualification. Contact the Union ifyou wish assistance in this appeal.
Sickness - You must have worked at least 20 weeks during the last 52 and your benefits will continue for a maximum of 15 weeks. A doctor's report is necessary to obtain U.l. Sickness benefits.
Maternity Benefits - Upto fifteen weeks of maternity benefits are payable if the natural mother has twenty weeks of Insurable Employment. A medical certificate is requiredshowing tne anticipated date of birth. Benefitsare payable eight weeks before expected confinement and the period ends seventeen weeks afterwards but the maximum you can collect is fifteen weeks.
Parental Benefits - In addition, ten weeks of parental benefits may be received following the arrival at home of the newbornchildor the placementofan adopted child in the home. This may be claimed by either parent, natural or adoptive, and the ten weeks may be shared by both mother and father. Both parents may even collect five weeks at the same time.
What you need to apply for U.l. benefits:
• A Record of Employment from the company. You must fill out an application for benefitsimmediately, and you may hand in the Record of Employment later. Ifyou have problems obtaining it, inform your local Canada Employment and Immigration Centre (CEIC).
•	An application for benefits, obtainable at CEIC offices.
•	A doctor’s report for sickness or maternity benefits, also obtainableat CEIC offices.
fyou have any questions or problems with U.I.C. call your local CEIC office. If your problems continue, contact the Union Office.
Effective Dale:	February 1, 1992
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
Between
A.R. CLARKE & CO. LIMITED Toronto, Ontario
(hereinafter called the "Company”)
and
Local 175
UNITED FOOD & COMMERCIAL WORKERS' UNION CLC, AFL-CIO
(hereinafter cal led the "Union")
1
INDEX OF CONTENTS
ARTICLES
ARTICLE 1 ARTICLE 2 ARTICLE 3
ARTICLE A ARTICLE 5 ARTICLE 6 ARTICLE 7 ARTICLE 8 ARTICLE 9 ARTICLE 10 ARTICLE 11 ARTICLE 12 ARTICLE 13 ARTICLE 1A ARTICLE 13 ARTICLE 16
CONTEXT
PURPOSE
RECOGNITION
UNION MEMBERSHIP AND UNION DUES
MANAGEMENT FUNCTIONS
STRIKES AND LOCKOUTS
UNION REPRESENTATION
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
ARBITRATION
SENIORITY
LAYOFF AND RECALL
LEAVE OF ABSENCE
HOURS OF WORK
OVERTIME
SHIFTS
WAGES
HOLIDAYS
2
PAGE
A
A
3
6
6
7
9
12
13
18
21
22
25
25
27
32
ARTICLE 17 ARTICLE 18 ARTICLE 19 ARTICLE 20 ARTICLE 21 ARTICLE 22 ARTICLE 23 ARTICLE 24 ARTICLE 25 ARTICLE 26
??7V ff
SCHEDULE A
llnll
SCHEDULE 11 SCHEDULE "C" SCHEDULE "D"
VACATIONS
BENEFITS
BEREAVEMENT ALLOWANCE
EMERGENCY GUARANTEE
TOOL ALLOWANCE
JURY DUTY
SAFETY AND HEALTH
NOTICES
FOOTWEAR
DURATION OF AGREEMENT WAGE ADMINISTRATION
HOURS OF WORK PAY EQUITY
34
36
39
39
40 40
40
41
42
43 45 53 56 58
3
ARTICLE 1 - PURPOSE
The purpose of this Agreement is to establish mutually satisfactory relations between the Company and its employees covered by this Agreement and to provide machinery for the prompt, equitable disposition of grievances.
ARTICLE 2 - RECOGNITION
(a)	The Company recognizes the Union as the exclusive bargaining agent for all of its employees in Toronto, save and except forepersons, supervisors, persons above the rank of foreperson or supervisor, chief engineer, consulting chemists, chief chemist, nurse, office and sales staff, (janitors and watchmen working less than 24 hours a week), and all such employees shall be covered by this Agreement.
(b)	It is recognized that forepersons, in addition to their managerial functions, may do work that is ordinarily done by members of the Bargaining Unit, as defined in Schedule 8 herein.
(c)	in the event that the Company purchases the shares or assets of another company that do not principally involve leather tanning operations which are absorbed and carried on in Toronto then the employees working in this new subsidiary or divisiori will not be covered by this Agreement. Employees covered by this Agreement will not have any rights or entitlements relating to such work.
4
(i) However, the Company and lhe Union shall negotiate a separate Collective Agreement recognizing any such new Bargaining Unit, assuming that there are no subsisting bargaining rights that would preclude the Union.
ARTICLE 3 - UNION MEMBERSHIP AND UNION DUES
(a)	it shall be a condition of employment that any employee who is a member of the Union upon the signing of this Agreement shall remain so for as long as he is an employee under this Agreement and that any new employee hired into the Bargaining Unit shall become a member of the Union at most 60 working days from his starting date and shall remain so for as long as he is an employee under this Agreement.
(b)	The Company shall deduct from the first wages and all subsequent wages due each employee, covered by this Collective Agreement, the regular union dues and initiation fee as from time to time indicated, to the Company, by the Union, in writing. It shall be the responsibility of the Union to advise the Company of such obligations and no employee shall lose or be refused membership in the Union for non-payment of regular dues if the Union has not specifically advised the Company of such obligations.
5-
The Union shall save the Company harmless from any costs whatsoever resulting from any dispute as between any employee or employees and the Union as the validity of obligation in respect of such regular dues.
(c)	The Company shall remit to the Union, by
the 15th of the month following deduction, all dues and fees deducted along with a list on the form provided by the Union showing from whom deducted, S.I.N,, address of first deduction and i t* changed, and if no deduction the reason why. This information will be provided on computer diskettes, or tape, supplied by the Union, if software is mutually compatible.
ARTICLE 4 - MANAGEMENT FUNCTIONS
All aspects of management shall be the exclusive prerogative of the Company, subject only to the terms of this Agreement.
5 - STRIKES A
LOCKOUTS
It i understood and agreed that there shall be no strike, on	work stoppage,
lowdown, or h such	ty by the Uni	or by
any of ts members during the term of thi Agreement or il ig	tor ts en i or
amendment are in progress. . C is further understood 8 agreed that should there be iy strik concerted work stoppage, slowdown, or other uch acti ity by any 3 the said members, the Union >	; and continu to make	. effort to
prevent or stop such act and	1" condemn such
action.
6
It is understood and agreed that there shall be no "lockouts" by the Company during the term of this Agreement or while negotiations for its renewal or amendment are in progress.
ARTICLE 6 ~ UNION REPRESENTATION
(a)	For the purpose of discussing and
adjusting matters arising out of the interpretation, application or administration of this Agreement, and for the processing of grievances as hereinafter set out, the Company shall recognize a Shop Steward for each thirty (30) active members (or majority traction thereof) of the Union employed by the Company. One of the stewards shall be Chairperson, and will be kept on day shift provided that, in the opinion of the Company, Chairperson being on day shift does not interfere with the efficient operation of the Plant. The Bargaining and Grievance Committee which shall be comprised of no more than three (3) members, shall meet with representatives of the Company as necessary. A Full-time Representative of the Union shall be a member of this Bargaining and Grievance Committee and attend all negotiating meeting, grievance meetings beginning at Step 2 of the grievance procedure contained hereinafter, and may attend any other meeting held between the Company and the Bargaining and Grievance Committee. Accredited officials of the Union shall have access to the plant premises upon reasonable notice to the Production Manager or designate.
7-
(b)	For the purpose of processing employees' grievances as hereinafter set out, the Company shall recognize Shop Stewards as set out herein. The Union shall keep the Company informed, in writing and within 30 days of any changes in the members of the Bargaining and Grievance Committee, the stewards and the chairperson of the Bargaining and Grievance Committee. It is understood and agreed that the first responsibility of Shop Steward is to their work for the Company and they shall not leave such work except in the performance of their duties under this Agreement, and then only in such a way as to cause the least possible loss of production and order, and they must explain the nature of his business to each Supervisor involved.
(c)	The Shop Chairperson shall carry out any duties under this agreement under the same conditions as a Shop Steward but in respect of all those areas in which employees under this Agreement are employed.
(d)	Bargaining and Grievance Committee persons and Stewards shall not lose pay while carrying out their duties under this Agreement during regular working hours.
(e)	No employee shall, in any manner, be discriminated against on the basis of Union membership, Union activity, or the exercise of any rights under this Agreement.
8
(t)
(g)
ARTICLE
(a)
(b)
Step 1
No employee shall, in any manner, be discriminated against on the basis of race, religion, ancestry, national origin, sex or marital status.
Each employee shall have the right to examine their personal disciplinary file upon submission of a written request to the Company. A representative of the Company and the Union i f requested will be present during the examination of the file and L£ requested by the employee, will supply copies of any documents in the said file.
7 - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
Any employee with seniority who feels they have a grievance under this Agreement shall discuss the matter with their foreperson, with a view to prompt settlement or explanation thereof. The employee's Shop Steward may accompany that employee in such discussion if the employee so desires.
If the employee is not satisfied after the above discussion, the grievance shall be settled in accordance with the following procedure:
The grievance shall be set down in writing and presented to the Production Manager (or designate) within ten (10) working days of the occurrence of the issue being grieved. The Company shall answer the grievance in writing within five (5) working days from receipt thereof.
9
Step 2 Should the employee or the Bargaining and Grievance Committee still not be satisfied, the grievance shall be referred to a meeting of the Bargaining and Grievance Committee and the Company. Such meeting shall be held as promptly as possible. Within eight (3) days of such meeting, the Company shall deliver its answer to the Chairperson of the Bargaining and Grievance Committee, with a copy to the Full-time Union Representative.
Should the above meeting not have taken place within fifteen (15) working days of referral, then either party may proceed to arbitration.
Time limits in this Article and Article 8 may be modified or extended by mutual agreement in writing.
(c)	Discharge Cases
In the event that an employee with seniority is discharged, the Bargaining and Grievance Committee and the Full-time Union Representative shall be so notified within two (2) working days where possible. A claim by an employee with seniority that such employee has been unjustly discharged shall be treated as a grievance and may be taken to arbitration if a written statement of such grievance is lodged with the Company under Article 7, (b), Step 2, within five (5) working days of the above notification to the Bargaining and Grievance Committee and the Full-time Union Representative.
10
Such special grievances may be settled by the Board of Arbitration by:
1.	confirming the Company's action in dismissal of the employee;
2.	reinstating the employee with full compensation for time lost; or
3.	any other arrangement which may be deemed just and equitable.
<d)	Matters arising out of the interpretation,
application or administration of this Agreement of a general nature may be the subject of a grievance which may be initiated by either party. Such grievance shall be entered at the 2nd Step.
(e)	Either party shall have the right to require the attendance of the grievor at any meeting held pursuant to the grievance procedure.
(f)	An agreement reached between the Management and the Bargaining and Negotiating Committee, subject to due process, is binding on all workers affected and cannot be changed by any individual.
if an employee's work record is free of suspension for a twelve month period, then all prior suspensions or written notations or warnings relating to the conduct of the employee, shall be removed from the employee's record.
(g)
11
ARTICLE 8 ~ ARBITRATION
(a)	In the event that a grievance is not satisfactorily settled under the grievance procedure, either party may refer the grievance to a sole arbitrator.
(b)	The party desiring the arbitration shall notify, in writing, the other party of its desire to arbitrate. Such notice shall contain a list of at least (3) qualified arbitrators.
(c)	The party receiving the notice shall forthwith either:
(i)	notify the first party of its acceptance of one of the arbitrators listed, or
(ii)	provide to the first party a list of at least three (3) qualified arbitrators, from which to choose.
(d)	1 £ the parties are unable to agree on an arbitrator within 30 days of the first notice, then the Minister of Labour shall be requested to appoint an Arbitrator.
(e)	The Arbitrator shall convene a hearing as promptly as possible to hear the case.
(f)	The Arbitrator shall be given access to the plant, should such access be requested by either party.
The parties shall jointly bear the expenses, if any, of the Arbitrator.
12
(h)	The Arbitrator shall not be authorized to
alter, modify, or amend any of the provisions of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 9 ~ SENIORITY
(a)	Subject to the provisions of this Agreement respecting the same, an employee's seniority shall be determined by the length of such employee's continuous employment with the Company.
(b)	The first sixty (60) working days of an employee's employment with the Company shall be a probationary period, after which such employee shall become an employee with seniority, dating from the day such employee commenced work. Absence of more than seven (7) days during the probationary period will be added to the period.
(c)	An employee shall lose all seniority and shall be deemed to have quit the employ of the Company €or any of the following reasons:
1.	voluntarily quits employment with the Company')
2.	is discharged and not reinstated through the grievance procedure;
3.	(alia to respond to recall aa herein provided;
13
4.	is absent on leave for more than three (3) months at one time except by agreement of the parties hereto:
5.	fails to return from a leave of absence as herein provided;
6.	is not recalled to work within:
(i)	18 months for employees with 15 years or more seniority;
(ii)	12 months for employees with from one to 15 years seniority;
(iii)	the period of actual seniority for employees with less than 1 year's seniority.
7.	takes another job while on leave of absence without having received prior written permission from the Company to do so.
8.	completes his/her entitlement for Weekly Indemnity Benefits as described in Article 18 (f), and does not return to work within five working days of such completion, unless he is prevented from so doing for reasonable cause and has notified the Company of such cause on a timely basis.
(d)	Lost seniority may be restored in whole or
in part by agreement of the parties hereto.
14
(e)	Lists showing the seniority of all employees under this Agreement shall be prepared and maintained by the Company and shall be open to inspection by the Bargaining and Grievance Committee. New lists shall be made up each year, shall be posted for a minimum of two weeks each year, and the Bargaining and Grievance Committee shall have a copy of each.
(f)	1. In the event new jobs are created or
permanent vacancies occur, the Company will post such new jobs or vacancies for period of two (2) working days before new employees are hired in order to allow employees with seniority in another classification to apply. It no senior employees apply, probationary employees will be considered.
2.	If no applications are received by 10:00 A.M. on the day following the posting date, the Company may start proceedings to secure applications from outside labour sources.
3.	In the event that two or more employees with seniority apply for a posted job, the Company shall consider the skill, ability, aptitude, work habits, and physical fitness of the applicants. Seniority shall govern only when two applicants are of equal standing in terms of these criteria, considered on an overall basis.
15
4.	It is agreed that successful applicants on the job bidding procedure will not be permitted to re-apply for a period of six (6) months.
5.	If, in the opinion of the Company, none of the applicants is qualified to perform the open job, then the Company has the right to select any other employee for the job or may hire from outside after first discussing Che matter with the Union. If, in the opinion of the Union, the Company has not considered all of the relevant facts, then the matter may be taken up through the grievance procedure.
6.	Employees with greater seniority who are unsuccessful in bidding on such jobs under this section shall be advised why they did not qualify.
7.	(a) A temporary vacancy shall be
defined as the longer of thirty (30) working days, or the period of the duration of the absence due to illness or injury of the individual who worked that job previously, or until their termination, or by mutual agreement in writing by the parties hereto.
(b)	However, temporary vacancies
occurring during the period of posting may be filled by the
16
Company in such manner as it may in its discretion determine.
8.	Only the first vacancy shall be posted. Vacancies arising out of the original posting will be filled by the Company. However, an employee may apply in writing for the second vacancy created not later than three
(3) days after such position becomes vacant and sections 3 to 7 above will apply. If such employee is refused the second vacancy, that employee shall be advised of the reason for the refusal.
9.	If an employee is transferred to another department due to lack of work, that employee may return to their former job before a new employee is hired for that job.
10.	In the event that more than one employee is doing the same job, as a regular assignment, then the senior employee shall not be transferred from that job, provided such employee has equal skill and ability compared to any junior employee doing that same job.
Regular Assignment
For the purposes of this agreement regular assignment(s) shall mean having been assigned to that job or operation on a regular basis for the preceding six (6) months.
-17-
Temporary transfers and layoffs will not be included in the calculation of the six months.
(G)	The Company shall distribute a form once
each six months on which employees may make a written request to train on a specific job. The Company shall provide the employee, as soon as possible, with an opportunity to train on the requested job. The Company in its discretion has the right to terminate the training period, if the employee fails to demonstrate the required skills,
(i) Success in a training program does not entitle the employee to any rights of job selection, other than provided for in Article 10(a) or 9(f).
ARTICLE 10 - LAYOFF AND RECALL
(a)	When it is necessary to layoff employees,
or to recall employees who have been laid off, the employees to be laid off or recalled shall be selected on the basis of seniority providing the senior employee has previously qualified on the job in the plant or can perform the work available satisfactorily without training. In the event that all jobs that require no training are filled by senior employees and further layoffs are required which involve skilled jobs, a senior employee may have only one opportunity to supplant any junior employee, providing such
18
employee is able to attain the required skills of that job within a ten (10) day training period. However, 1 f such employee has twenty (20) years seniority or over, then he/she shall be given a fifteen (15) day training period. As between two employees who are fully competent to perform the work available seniority shall govern the selection. The rate paid for the job chosen by the employee exercising this right to supplant shall be the rate of the job, as listed in Schedule A, subject to the provisions of Article 15(a). Notice of layoff or compensation in lieu thereof shall be in compliance with Government Legislation. Notice of recall shall be sent to the employee's last recorded address and such employee shall have a maximum of five (5) working days in which to report for work. Seniority shall accrue during layoff.
(b)	Each member of the Bargaining and
Grievance Committee and Stewards, will be retained in employment without regard Lo seniority so long as there is work available that they are competent and willing to perform. Such work shall not be higher rated than their regular work except by mutual agreement of the parties hereto. Should an employee cease to be a member of the Bargaining and Grievance Committee or a Steward while layoff is in effect, such employee shall be dealt with under the normal layoff and recall procedures when the next layoff occurs.
19
(c)	During periods of plant shutdown, when there is a staggered phase-down and phase-up of work, rights as described in clauses
(a)	and (b) above will not apply to supplant employees who are working on their regular assignments during these phase-down and phase-up periods. The schedule and duration of a plant shutdown will be posted by the Company, after discussion with the Union. (8y way of example: the first department out is the first department back and so on, in sequence.)
(d)	The Union Chairperson or designate shall be present when an employee is advised of layoff pursuant to Article 10(a). If the advice of layoff is provided in writing by mail, the Chairperson shall receive a copy of the advice on the day it is mailed.
'	(i) The Company shall provide the Union
office with a list of the names of employees laid off within fifteen (15) working days of the date of layoff.
(e)	if any employee is to be laid off for a period of more than five (5) working days, and such period i s not part of a vacation or shutdown as described in Article 10(c), then that employee shall receive one (1) day written notice of such layoff, or eight (8) hours pay in lieu of such
not ice.
20
ARTICLE 11 - LEAVE OF ABSENCE
(a)	An employee with seniority will be granted a leave of absence without pay upon presentation of a certificate of a physician attesting to illness or other disability which prevents such employee from performing their regular duties.
When an employee is able to perform their regular duties such employee shall so advise the Company and shall report for work within seven (7) days of the time such employee is able to perform their regular duties or such employee shall lose all rights under this Agreement.
(b)	A female employee who becomes pregnant will be granted a leave of absence in accordance with the terms and conditions set out in the Ontario Women's Equal Employment Opportunity Act. If she reports for work within two (2) months and seven (7) days from the date of delivery, she shall be returned to her former job or its nearest equivalent available. If she does not so report, she shall lose all rights under this Agreement.
(c)	On request from the Union, leave of absence without pay will be granted for official duties with the Union. Such leaves shall not exceed one (1) week continuous (except in the case of the International Convention) or three (3) weeks accumulative per employee in one (1) year, shall not apply to more than three (3) employees at any one time, and shall not apply to more than two (2) members of the Bargaining and Grievance Committee or the Local Executive at any one time.
-21-
’d)	On request from the Union, the Company
shall grant leave of absence without pay to an employee for a period not exceeding such employee's first time of office, but not longer than one year for full-time service with the Union, provided that the number of employees who, at any one time, shall be granted such leave, shall be mutually agreed.
(e)	The Company may grant leave of absence without pay not exceeding three (3) months for reasons other than as set out herein. Such leaves shall not be refused unreasonably if such request Is made in writing explaining the need for leave and is submitted a reasonable period prior to the required departure and specifies the date of return. Leave of absence must be approved in writing by the Company.
(f)	Seniority shall accrue during the forgoing leaves of absence.
ARTICLE 12 - HOURS OF WORK
(a)	The standard work week shall consist of forty (40) hours worked on Monday to Friday inclusive. The standard work day shall be eight (8) hours.
(b)	The foregoing constitutes no guarantee by the Company to any employee of a specific number of hours or work, either per day of per week.
(c)	A schedule of the starting and stopping times of each shift, including the times
22
of break, lunch, and wash-up for each department is listed in Schedule C herein, based on the following:
(i)
(ii)
(i i i )
(iv)
(v)
(vi )
The Company will allow each employee who wishes one break period of ten (10) minutes during each half of a standard work day.
The lunch period shall be thirty minutes, and shall be unpaid, except for continuous shift workers (i.e, those that work in departments that work continuously for 24 hours) or those working as colour drum operators who shall be entitled to a twenty (20) minute paid lunch period.
Employees will not be allowed a wash up period before the end of the shift, unless specifically provided for in Schedule "c".
Employees will not cease to work or leave their departments prior to the times posted by the Company unless otherwise instructed by their Foreperson.
Employees must be at their work assignments ready to commence work at the times posted by the Company, unless otherwise instructed by their Foreperson.
No employee will be allowed to work unauthorized or unpaid overtime in addition to their regular hours.
23
(vi. i) Each employee shall punch their
own Time Card only. Punching Time Cards other than an employee's own may be cause for dismissal.
(d)	The Company agrees that it will not call
for a short work week (e.g. -3 day week, or 4 day week) unless any one of the following occurs:
1. a major breakdown of equipment which interrupts production for more than eight (8) hours:
2 , layoffs have taken place to the point where the Company seniority list contains less than one hundred seventy three (173) names of actively employed individuals, for a period of five consecutive working days. Actively employed means any employee with seniority who has not been laid off, suspended or is not absent on Workers Compensation or Sickness Benefit or on voluntary leave;
3.	after discussion with the Bargaining and Grievance Committee, and by mutual agreement between the Union and the Company.
4.	in case of force majeure
In the event that plant wide shutdown of 4 or more consecutive working days is required because of production levels, holidays and vacation period, or plant overhauls, the above clause will not apply during that period.
24-
ARTICLE 13 - OVERTIME
(a)	Wok performed other than as set out in Article 12 shall be paid for at one and one-half time the employee's regular rate. However, work performed on Sundays or on holidays listed in Article 16 shall be paid for at twice the employee's regular rate.
(b)	The Company undertakes to assign overtime work as equitably as circumstances permit among those employees generally performing the work.
(c)	Upon reasonable request, in writing, by the Union, the Company shall provide a list of overtime hours worked by employees.
(d)	In the event that the Company requires an employee to work overtime for a consecutive period of four (4) or more hours without having notified that employee the previous day, the Company will pay that employee a meal allowance of five (5) dollars.
ARTICLE 14 - SHIFTS
(a)	Unless otherwise arranged, a shift will be
considered as worked on the day iL commences. A shift commencing before 12:00 noon shall be deemed to be a first shift. A shift commencing after 12:00 noon but before 8:00 P.M. shall be deemed to be a second shift.
25-
A shift commencing after 8! 00 P.M, but before 4<00 A.M. shall be deemed to be a third shift. When an employee works on a second shift he shall receive a premium of (.40) per hour. When an employee works on a rotating third shift, he shall receive a premium of fifty (50) cents per hour.
When an employee works on a permanent third shift, he shall receive a premium of $1.00 per hour. Such premium shall not be subject to overtime premium.
(b)	Third shift premium will be paid to employees starting the day shift prior to 6!00 A.M. The premium will be paid from the start of the shift until 6! 00 A.M. only.
(c)	In the event that the Company requests an employee to temporarily change shift, such employee will be notified of such transfer twenty-four hours prior to the commencement of the shift to which the employee is to be transferred. Failure to provide such notice shall result in the payment at time and one half the employees regular hourly rate for all hours worked on the first day of such transfer.
(d)	As long as there is unanimous agreement among those doing the rotating shift work, a fixed schedule can be established, subject to the approval of the Company.
26
ARTICLE 15 ~ WAGES
(a)	Schedule A, attached to and forming part of this Agreement, sets out the basis of wage administration effective with the signing of this Agreement.
Any employee who has been paid at a higher rate than that shown in Schedule A shall be "red circled" for the term of such employee's employment with the Company. The employee's red circled rate shall terminate if that employee has been laid off for a period of more than six continuous months, even if he subsequently returns to work pursuant to Article 10(a). Any employee replacing the red circled employee shall receive the Schedule A rate.
(b)	In the event that the Company wishes to introduce a piece work rate, such introduction shall not take place until the Company and the Union have agreed on a set of time study rules to govern the establishment of such piece work rates.
If an agreement on such rules cannot be reached, either party may submit the matter of Time Study Rules to Arbitration, pursuant to Article 8.
(c)	Notwithstanding the forgoing, it is recognized that an appreciable change in methods, equipment, material or working conditions will justify an adjustment in hourly or piecework rates, and the degree of such change will be a major factor in determining the extent of such adjustment. To ascertain the extent of such adjustment the job will be evaluated by the job evaluation system described in Schedule D herein.
-27
If any such adjustment is made during the life of the Agreement, the employees affected shall accept the new rates for at least fifteen (15) working days. If, at the end of such time, any employees affected are dissatisfied, the Steward or Stewards concerned may take the matter up with the appropriate supervisors and, failing prompt satisfaction, the matter may be processed as a grievance as follows:
Within fifteen (15) working days after the end of the fifteen (15) day period referred to above, the Bargaining and Grievance Committee shall request the Production Manager to arrange a meeting to review the question stating its reasons for disagreement and, within five (5) working days after such meeting, the Company shall deliver its final answer.
If the Bargaining and Grievance Committee is not satisfied with the Company's answer, it may, within ten (10) working days from the receipt of such answer, process the matter to arbitration as set out in Article 8 with the added provision that the Arbitrator shall be a person experienced in matters of this kind.
(e)	Rate adjustments made as a result of the foregoing procedure shall take effect from the beginning of the first fifteen (15) day period above unless otherwise agreed by the parties or directed by the Arbitrator.
(f)	An employee who, for the convenience of the Company, is temporarily transferred to
28
work €or which the rate of pay is different from that in effect for such employee's regular work shall be paid, while so employed, as follows:
1	. If the rate of pay for the work to which the employee is transferred is less than the employee's regular pay, such employee shall receive their own higher rate of pay.
2.	If the rate of pay for the work to
which such employee is transferred is higher than the employee's regular pay, such employee shall receive the higher rate of pay for the work to which such employee is temporarily transferred, provided that the employee displays efficiency, skill or ability equal to that of the employees on the work to which such employee is transferred.
<8>	An employee who, for the convenience and
benefit of the employee, is temporarily transferred to other work instead of being Laidoff due to lack of work, breakdown of machinery or other like cause shall be paid, while so employed, as follows:
1.	If the rate of pay for the work to which such employee is transferred is less than the employee's regular pay, such employee shall receive the lower rate paid for the work to which such employee is transferred.
2.	If the rate of pay for the work to which such employee is transferred,
29
is higher than the employee's regular pay, such employee shall receive the higher rate of pay for the work to which such employee is temporarily transferred, provided that the employee displays efficiency, skill or ability equal to that of the employees on the work to which such employee is transferred.
(h)	Notwithstanding (f) and (g) above, an employee shall be paid their regular rate for the balance of the shift on which this temporary transfer takes place.
(i)	Should breakdown, shortage of material or other cause of a temporary nature make it necessary for an employee to "stand by", such employee may be assigned other work but shall be paid at their regular rate for the remainder of their shift or for a maximum of four (4) hours, whichever shall first occur.
(j)	In the event an employee reports for work on their regular shift without previously having been told not to report, such employee shall receive at least four (4) hours' pay at their regular rate, or such employee may be required to perform four (4) hours' work at any job such employee is able to do, except in circumstances beyond the control of the Company, such as breakdown of major machinery, fire and power failure.
(k)	The Company will set the rates for new classifications established during the
30-
lifetime of this Agreement provided that, after a trial period of fifteen (15) working days, the rate may be subject to the special grievance procedure as set: out above. The existing rate structure shall be a major factor in determining such rates.
(l)	If, as a result of such new classification, en employee would receive a reduction in rate, such employee will have the tight to be transferred to any other job in the plant providing such employee has the competence required to perform the job, and further providing that such employee has more seniority than the worker "bumped". The Company shall allow a reasonable training period if such is required. Until such time as the worker is transferred to another job carrying the same rate of pay, such employee shall continue to receive their old rate. Such employee shall exercise their right to be so transferred within four (4) months, after which time such employee shall forfeit such right and shall accept the rate set for the new classification.
(m)	The Union will co-operate in the elimination of waste, inefficient production and poor workmanship.
31
ARTICLE 16 - HOLIDAYS
(a)	The Company recognizes the following
holidays:
New Year's Day Dominion Day Good Friday Labour Day Thanksgiving Day Christmas Day Boxing Day Employee's Birthday

Orthodox Christmas Day May 24 (to be celebrated on the nearest Monday preceding when it does not fall on a Monday Civic Holiday (first Monday in August)
Each of the above holidays shall be observed on the day on which it falls unless otherwise declared by the appropriate government authority. However, for the Employee's Birthday Holiday, if it falls on a normal work day the employee may elect either to take that day at regular rates and receive normal holiday pay in addition thereto.
(i)	The Company also recognizes that for December 24th and December 3Lst, eight (8) hours will be paid for only if five (5) hours are actually worked on each day.
The Union recognizes that full co-
operation will be required in implementation. For the above listed holidays, section (d) below will apply.
-32-
(b)	All employees will be paid for the above
holidays at their regular hourly rate or eight times their average hourly earnings during the preceding week, as the case may be.	In order to qualify for payment an
employee must:
1)	have acquired seniority as of the date of the day of observance of the holiday;
2)	work the last scheduled work day prior to and the first scheduled work day after the observance of the holiday, save that an employee through sickness who provides the Company on the day of their return with an explanation of the illness, in writing, from a licensed physician or who has been granted'permission by the Production Manager or designate to be absent on one or both of the above mentioned days only. An employee does not qualify for the above holidays if such employee has been laid of€ for a lack of work more than seven days prior to the observance of the holiday.
(c)	Regular part-time workers will be paid one-half day for such holidays, subject to the above provisions.
(d)	Any employee required by the Company to work on one of the above listed holidays and who does work will be paid the rate of double time for all hours worked, in addition to their holiday pay.
-33
(e)	If, a statutory holiday falls during the
employee's claim period for WC8, UIC, or Weekly Indemnity, the Company will pay only the difference between the holiday pay and the benefit payment payable for that day to -such employee. In no way shall an employee be able to "pyramid" benefits.
ARTICLE 17 - VACATIONS
(a)	Each employee with seniority shall have a
yearly vacation with pay based on their service as at June 30th of that year, according to the following formula:
The first and second weeks of vacation shall be in accordance with the Ontario Employment Standards Act or the following whichever is greater.
0	to 6 months service - Entitlement 0 weeks 4% of Cross Earnings.
6 months to 1 year service ■ Entitlement week 4% of Gross Earnings or 40 times Regular Hourly Rate whichever ls greater.
1	year to 4 years service - Entitlement 2 weeks h% of Gross Earnings or 80 times Regular Hourly Rate whichever is greater.
4 years to 13 years service • Entitlement
3 weeks 6X of Cross Earnings or 120 times Regular Hourly Rate whichever is greater.
13 years to 21 years service ■ Entitlement
4	weeks 8% of Cross Earnings or 160 times Regular Hourly Rate whichever is greater.
34
21 years to 30 years service * Entitlement 5 weeks LOX of Gross Earnings or 200 times Regular Hourly Rate whichever is greater.
30 years or more service - Entitlement 6 weeks i2X of Gross Earnings or 240 times Regular Hourly Rate whichever is greater.
After 40 years of service - Entitlement 7 weeks 14% Gross Earnings or 280 times Regular Hourly Rate whichever is greater.
For the purpose of this clause gross earnings shall mean the gross earnings of an employee from July 1st the previous year to June 30th of the year in which the vacations apply, including but not restricted to public holiday pay and previous vacation pay. For piece workers, regular hourly rate shall be their average piece work earnings for the one year prior to June 30th.
(b)	Such vacations shall be taken in the calendar year in which they apply, and so as to cause the least possible interference with operations. Vacations must be exercised in the year they are due. Anyone asked by the Company to work during vacation periods shall be entitled to equivalent alternate time off without pay.
(c)	If the Company recalls an employee to work from their vacation, such employee shall be paid time and one-half in addition to their vacation pay.
(d)	If an employee works less than 1200 reguLar hours during the twelve months
35
ARTICLE
(a)
(b)
(c)
preceding June 30, then his/her vacation pay will not be the greater of the calculations described in (a) above, but will be calculated as a percentage of his/her gross earnings for the hours actually worked during the twelve months.
18 - BENEFITS
The Company shall pay Che full premium for full-time eligible employees, commencing the beginning of the month following the month in which that employee acquires seniority, for life insurance, weekly indemnity, major medical, prescription drug, and Ontario Health Insurance plans.
(1) In the event that the Government of Ontario reinstitutes an individual payment system for universal health insurance, such as O.H.I.P was, then the Company shall pay such premium on behalf of each employee.
It is agreed that any and all premium rebates to employees required by legislation on welfare matters will be applied directly towards the cost of the total welfare coverage.
Dental Plan
The Company agrees to sign the participation agreement with United Food and Commercial Workers Trusteed Dental Plan and to remit for each Bargaining Unit employee enrolled effective February L,
36-
1992, seventeen cents (.170) per hour worked, up to a maximum of 40 hours per week, as defined below. (Should the Trustees of the United Food and Commercial Workers Plan request it the Company will increase the seventeen cents (.17c) per hour set out herein to eighteen cents (.18c) per hour after February 1, 1993.
(d)	Pension Plan
The Company agrees to sign the participation agreement with the Canadian Commercial Workers Industry Pension Plan and remit, effective February 1, 1992, twenty-two cents (.22c) and an additional three cents ( . 03<?) effective February 1, 1993, per hour for each Bargaining Unit employee enrolled for all hours worked, to a maximum of 40 hours per week, as defined below.
(e)	In regard to the Dental Plan and the
Pension Plan above:
The Company will remit the name, address, Social Insurance Number and other data that may be required for proper recording and administration of the plans.
The Company's only other administrative responsibility in the above plans is to initially enroll the employees and to give out claim forms. The Company will not be responsible in any way for the management of these funds, or
(i)
(ii)
-37
for the payment of any benefits relating to the Dental Plan or Pension Plan.
(iii)	Hours worked shall include regular hours, overtime hours, vacation hours, statutory holidays, bereavement pay, or any other paid hours provided for Ln the Collective Agreement.
(iv)	The Company shall remit such monies to the plan trustees by the 23rd of the month following the hours worked.
The payments under the Weekly Indemnity Plan shall be:
$300,00 per week Length of Coverage:
May 1st, 1990 (52) weeks including Unemployment Insurance Coverage 3rd ” 17th week
(i) After a claim of full duration eligibility is lost for further coverage for a recurrence of the same injury or illness until the employee has returned and worked for a minimum period of sixty (60) working days.
The Company shall cease 10 pay all benefit premiums and benefit coverage shall cease:
(i)	for any employee laid off pursuant
to Article 10(a), after thirteen (13) weeks from the date of layoff.
38
(ii)	for any employee on leave of absence, after the first day of the month following commencement
of leave,
(iii)	unless the employee affected by paragraphs (i) and (ii) pays to the Company, in advance, prior to the first day of the month of coverage being purchased, the full monthly premium, as paid by the Company, for coverage or supplementary health care and life insurance benefits only.
ARTICLE 19 - BEREAVEMENT ALLOWANCE
In the event of death in the immediate family (spouse, father, mother, child, sister, brother, grandparent or parent-in-law) of an employee with seniority, such employee shall be granted, upon notification, up to three (3) successive regular working days of absence without loss of pay, including the day of the funeral. Payment will be based on the regular scheduled hours of work in the plant up to a maximum of eight (8) hours per day at the employee's regular day rate.
ARTICLE 20 - EMERGENCY GUARANTEE
If a maintenance employee has clocked out and left the premises, and is recalled to perform emergency work, such employee shall be paid a minimum of four (A) hours at one and one-half times their regular rate. The employee will be allowed to go home when the emergency job is finished and checked over.
39
ARTICLE 21 - TOOL ALLOWANCE
(a)	The following employees will be granted a tool allowance of up to $100,00 in any one calendar year for the replacement of tools. Payment will be issued promptly upon submission of receipts and a written description of the tools purchased.
1,	0,	Campbell	2,	H,L, Hou
3.	L,	McRae	4,	W. Morrison
5,	E.	Onoufriou	6.	J. Rounis
(b)	The employees listed in (a) above will normally do production work although they may be called upon from time to time, based on their qualifications, to do maintenance or repair work.
ARTICLE 22 - JURY DUTY
In the event that an employee is precluded from working their regular shift or shifts due to being called for and reporting for jury duty, the Company agrees to make up the difference in pay between the amount received for jury duty and the amount the employee would have received for working their regular shift or shifts. If the employee is not chosen, such employee must report back to work within two (2) hours. On being chosen for jury duty, the employee shall immediately notify the Company.
ARTICLE 23 - SAFETY AMD HEALTH
(a)	The Company shall make reasonable
provision for the safety and health of the
40
employees during the hours of their employment.
(b)	Protective clothing and devices deemed necessary by the Company, and as required by legislation, to protect employees from injuries shall be supplied by the Company.
Such protective clothing and devices must be worn and utilized by the employee as instructed, at all times, as necessary.
(c)	If the Company introduces a chemical, not previously used, the Joint Safety and Health Committee will determine it's proper classification within the chemical group listing supplied by I.A.P.A. The Committee will also ensure that the precautions noted under the chemical classifications are adhered to in all respects.
ARTICLE 24 - NOTICES
(a)	The Company agrees that notices concerning
Union activities may be posted in the plant on the bulletin board provided by the Company, subject to the following conditions:
(i)	Such notices shall receive the stamped approval of the Company prior to posting.
(ii)	No change shall be made in any such notice, either by the Company or by the Union, after it has received the stamped approval of the Company.
41
(iii)	No notice shall be posted except on the bulletin board as provided.
(b)	The Union agrees that it will not distribute or post or cause to be
permitted to be distributed or posted on
the property of the Company, €or or on its behalf, any pamphlets, advertising or political matter, notices or any other kind of literature except with the written permission of the Company.
(c)	All notices and letters sent to the Union shall be addressed to the Full-time Representative, 2200 Argentia Road, Mississauga, Ontario L5N 2K7 with a copy to the chairperson of the Bargaining and Grievance Committee. The Union shall advise the Company of any changes in this address.
(d)	All notices and letters sent to the Company shall be addressed to The President, A.R. Clarke 4 Co. Limited, 633 Eastern Ave., Toronto, Ontario, M4M 125,
(e)	The Company shall provide the Union, in writing, the names and titles of senior supervisory personnel.
(f)	The Company shall notify the Union Chairperson of any appreciable change of methods, equipment, material or working conditions.
ARTICLE 25 - FOOTWEAR
The Company will supply CSA approved safety shoes or boots on the basis of one pair per
42
employee per year to be issued on or before December 1. In the case of rubber boots, these will be replaced when necessary, only upon the return of the used pair. New employees will be required to provide their own first pair of safety boots. Such safety footwear must be worn by the employee at all times while at work.
ARTICLE 26 ~ DURATION OF AGREEMENT
(a)	Unless changed by mutual consent, the terms of this Agreement shall continue in effect until the 31st day of January 1994 and shall continue automatically from year to year thereafter, unless either party notifies the other in writing, not more than one hundred twenty (120) days and not less than thirty (30) days immediately prior to the expiration date, that it desires to amend or terminate the Agreement.
(b)	The parties shall agree upon a date, to begin negotiation, within fifteen (15) days following notification for amendment as provided hereinbefore.
(c)	If, pursuant to such negotiations, an Agreement is not reached on the renewal or amendment of this Agreement, or the making of a new Agreement prior to the current expiry date, this Agreement shall continue in full force and effect until a new Agreement is signed between the parties,
or until conciliation proceedings prescribed under the Ontario Labour Relations Act have been completed, whichever date should first occur.
43-
Signed this
FOR THE COMPANY:
Gary GoLdberg
Harvey Wood
day of	1992.
FOE THE UNION:
Masood Khan________
Nick Kolevski______
Milton Dutcher_____
Teresa Suppa_______
Business Representative
44
SCHEDULE "A"
WAGE ADMINISTRATION
Hourly Rate
The basic hourly structure is shown in Table 1. These rates include the increases effective February 1st, 1992 for employees on the payroll as of the date of ratification. Employees receiving rates higher than those shown for their work will continue to receive the higher rates so long as they do the same work and the work remains hourly rated. Such higher rates will include the increases effective February 1st, 1992 and February 1st, 1993.
Piece Work
The increase effective February 1st, 1991 will be added to the piece work earnings according to Table 2 on a pay period basis. The Company will make changes to piece work rates by application of Article 15 (c). As of signing of Agreement there are no piece work rates in plant.
Starting Rates
Starting rates shall not be more than 10% below established rates at the discretion of the Company for one month. Rates shall be calculated to the nearest cent.
Pay Equity
The Company has purchased the "Neutralizer" plan and has, with the Union, established a Pay Equity Committee, which has initiated a Pay Equity Program.
45
SCHEDULE "A"
TABLE 1
Effective Dates Feb. 1/91 Feb. 1/92
Watchmen	$11,29	$11,79
Category - Job Examples All light general duties including Feeding and Take Off of all finishing, spray,
RCM, Ironing, DRM,
Measuring Equipment, also Bundling,
Gauging, Split Trimmers, Piniflex,
Fulton County $12,42	$12,92
Sample Work; Spray
and RCM Operators
Swabbing and Oiling
Operators	$12,47	$12,97
Brushing Machine,
Feed and Take Off;
Box Brusher; Kiln Helpers, Truckers,
Washing Machine;
Blue Sorting Helper,
Staking, Stick Kiln,
Toggling, Spot Buffing, Plating,
Setting Out	$12,74	$13,24
46-
Feb. 1/93 $12,29
$13,42
$13,47
$13,74
Effective Dates
Feb. 1/91 Feb. 1/92
Fork Lift Truckers;
Floor Workers, Hide House and Beam House;
Grease Operators,
Balers	$12.82	$13.32
Paste Setters-Strippers,
Embossing Machine Feeders and Vacuum Dryer
Operators	$12.95	$13.45
Wringers	$12.95	$13.45
50" and 60” Buffers
$12.96	$13.46
Blue Split Trimmers and Sorters
(Conveyor line) $13.01	$13.51
Final Sorters; Head Setters; Shavers;
Embossing Machine
Operators	$13.10	$13.60
Beam House Operator
$13.13	$13.63
Class A Finish Mixer
$13.18	$13.68
Tan Drum Operators
$13.63	$14.13
Feb. 1/93
$13.82
$13.95
$13.95
$13.96
$14.01
$14.10
$14.13
$14.18
$14.63
47-
Effective Dates
Feb. 1/91 Feb. 1/92 Feb. 1/93
Colour Drum Operators
$13.68	$14.18	$14.68
Whole Hide Fleshing
and Hooking	$13.68	$14.18	$14.68
Lime Pulling, Pick Up Blue Sorter, Splitter,
Load Preparation	$13.68	$14.18	$14.68
Maintenance Effective Dates
Feb. 1/91 Feb. 1/92 Feb. 1/93 Helper	$12.74	$13.24	$13.74
Unlicensed
Tradesperson	$13.23	$13.73	$14.23
Licensed Tradesperson with trade school certificates of 120 hours or more of instruction	$14.93
$15.43	$15.93
*Licensed Tradesperson with two licenses used in the course of
employment	$16.08	$16.58
$17.08
48
Feb. 1/93
Effective Dates
Feb. 1/91 Feb. 1/92
♦Licensed Tradesperson with three or more licenses used in the course of employment
$18.08	$18.58	$19.08
^License Definition
A qualification issued by the Ontario Ministry of Universities & Colleges upon successful completion of a minimum 120 hours of instruction.
49
SCHEDULE "A" TABLE 2
HOURLY RATE INCREASES
(a)	The increase of fifty cents (.50) per hour is shown in Table 1, and is retroactive to February 1st, 1992 including application to all Red Circle Rates.
(b)	The Company agrees to contribute two cents (.02) per hour, for all hours worked by bargaining unit employees, to the "United Food & Commercial Workers Education and Training Fund". In determining hours worked and date of remittance the terms set out herein before in Article 18, (c) and (e) shall apply.
The remittance shall be made payable to "U.F.C.W. Local 175, Education and Training Fund" and shall be mailed to the Local Union Secretary-Treasurer at the address set out herein before in Article 24 as may be amended from time to time.
50
I
1992
EMP#
70
271
944
92
598
429
433
593
98
157
28
75
420
96
SCHEDULE "A" TABLE 3
RED CIRCLED RATES
These	Rates	include
per hour	and a	further
EMPLOYEE	NAME	JOB
fifty cents (.50) effective February 1st, ,504 increase effective February 1993.
DESCRIPTION RED CIRCLED	INCREASE
RATE Feb 1/92 Feb. 1/93
William Anning 2aim Asimofski
Ha Chay Bach Adolfo Cabral Donald Campbell George Cava Lar is Joe Chodelka Anilo Dolce Joseph Ellul Chris Evangelou Vittorino Finos Fred Fostyk Tom Fragos Risto Gagovski
Bundling Presor t/Lead
Hand
Shaver
Wringer Crew
Mechanic
Plating
Plating
Fork Lift Op
Receiver
Shaver
Setting
Hide Operator
Plating
Wringer Crew
$15.00
14 .33
14.00
14.12
15.58
13.28
13.28 14,85 18,15 15,35 13,84
14.59
13.28
14.12
515,50
14,88
14	. 50
14.62 16 . 08
13.78
13.78 15,35 18,65
15	, 85 14,34 15.09
13.78
14.62
EMP#	EMPLOYEE NAME
93	Giuseppe Gregor i no
41	Vasilkj Hladun
91	Risto Karlovski
360	Angelos Koukoulis
611	Stanley Kuli czkovski
150	Dennis Lee
831	Carlisle Maynard
67	Wayne Morrison
30	Bosko Hovakovic
318	Elias Onoufriou
432	Nick Ouzounis
64	Nicola Parente
9	Chris Bassos
48	Domenico Ravaglia
355	Panagiot i s Sapanid i s
169	Vincenzo Savino
354	Tsane Tsonevski
10	Andr i ja Vezi1j
JOB DESCRIPTION	RED CIRCLED RATE Feb. 1/92	INCREASE Feb. 1/93
Split Feeder	15.09	15.59
Splitting Maine.	16.25	16.75
RCM Op	13.24	13.74
RCM Op	13.24	13.74
Setting	14.24	14.74
Setting	14.24	14.74
Lime Puller	17.75	18.25
Electri cian	16.58	17.08
Wringer Crew	14.12	14.62
Mechanic	15.63	16.13
Plating	13.28	13.78
Truck Op	14.75	15.25
Hooker	16.75	17.25
Splitter	15.98	16.48
Season Op	13.68	14.18
Head Setter	13.70	14.20
Oil Mach. Op	13.24	13.74
FIesher	16.75	17.25
SCHEDULE "B"
The following staff are covered by Article 2(b), and are permitted to perform the work described below, based on the maximum hours per day.
3 hrs. Kalco Kalcovski:
checking leather, slot test; trimming, moving of skids, splitting, and shaving; and general maintenance, plant improvements and cleaning.
3 hrs. James Ho:
trimming, sorting, bundling, packing, testing, checking leather; feeding or take off the measuring machine; fork lift operator, shipping, receiving.
3 hrs. Otto Beussow:
moving tables of Leather with electric truck; moving wet leather/horses to and from drying areas, checking, sorting and trimming leather; sample drying, testing machinery & process, start/stop machinery.
3 hrs. Bobby Patel:
moving leather with electric truck; may operate, feed, or take off From any finishing equipment; colour mixer and matcher.
3 hrs. Richard Dziemianko I
move leather with electric truck, colour mixing. May operate, feed, or take off from any finishing equipment.
53
8 hrs > Louis Cabral:
sample finishing, colour mixing, may operate, feed, or take off from any finishing equipment;.
8	hrs , Simmle Wong!
colour matching, sample spraying, lab testing, may operate any finishing equipment.
9	hrs. Therold Lue!
maintenance or repairs of any nature.
2	hrs. Harvey Wood:
forklift driving; shipping and receiving; maintenance and repairs of any nature.
9 hrs. Charles Sehioki
dye matching,' colour drum operating.
8 hrs. Tommy Skarjak!
dye matching, colour drum operating.
3	hrs, German Alabaszowski!
watchman.
4	hrs. Jim Rudde1L l
shipping, receiving, forklift operating.
54
1.	The parties agree that the staff may perform bargaining unit work for the purpose of a) instruction, b) introduction and/or testing of new procedures or equipment, c) in the case of an emergency, or d) when no bargaining unit employee is available who has the skills required for the job.
2.	Staff will be permitted to do bargaining unit work other than described above by mutual consent of the Union and Company, both parties acting reasonably.
55
DEPARTMENT
FINISHING
PLATING
PASTING & VACUUM DRYING TOGGLING & STAKING BUFFING (day)
FINAL SORT BLUE SORT SPLITTING/SHAVING BELT TRIMMING
FLESHING CREW LIME OPERATORS
PICK-UP (5)
PASTING & VACUUM (afternoon)
PASTING (single shift) PLATING (afternoon) BUFFING (afternoon) FINISHING (afternoon) BUFFING (midnight)
SCHEDULE "C" HOURS OF WORK
SHIFT	1st	2nd
BEGINS	BREAK	LUNCH
7:00	9: 15	11:30
7:00	9:15	11:30
7:00	9: 15	12 :00
7:00	9:15	12 :00
11:30	2:00	4:00
3:30	5: 15	7:30
2:00	4: 30	6:30
3:20	5:30	7:30
3:20	5:30	7:30
3:10	5:00	7:30
separate schedule
WASH SHIFT
BREAK	UP	ENDS
2:00	3:20	3:30
2:00	3:20	3:30
2:00	3: 15	3: 30
	-	-
-	-	-
-	-	-
-	-	-
2:00	3: 15	3:30
-	-	-
6:00	7:45	8:00
10:00	11:45	12:00
8:30	10:15	10:30
10:00	11:40	11:50
10:00	11:40	11:50
10:00	11:20	11:30
DEPARTMENT
SHIFT
BEGINS
1st
BREAK
2nd
LUNCH
HASH
BREAK
SHIFT
UP
On
—J
LIME PULLERS TANNERY FORKLIFT WRINGER CREW TANNERY OPERATORS COLOUR OPERATORS LOAD PREPARATION SETTING MAINTENANCE
1:30	3:30	6:00
4:00	6:00	9:00
4:00	6:00	9:00
24 hr. schedule separate schedule 7:00	9:15	12:00
6:00	9:00	12:00
7:00	10:00	12:00
8:00
10:00
11:00
2:00
2:00
2:20
9:45
12:15
12:15
3:20
2:15
3:20
1.	The times Listed above relate specifically to Article 12 (a) and (c),
2.	This schedule is subject to reasonable change by mutual agreement.
3.	Employees doing individual jobs within a department may be asked to work different schedules from those Listed above, subject to mutual agreement.
ENDS
10:00
12:30
12:30
3.30
2:30
3:30
4.	The start of breaks and lunch may be postponed, at the foreperson's discretion, if the continuation of operations is necessary to complete a given pack to ensure quality consistency.
5.	Pick-up shift is adjusted daily to meet the tan drum schedule.
6.	No split shifts will be assigned, unless mutually agreed.
SCHEDULE "D"
PAY EQUITY
The parties hereto agree that once the Pay Equity Plan is in place, under the Pay Equity Act of Ontario, the resultant Benchmark Job points and job questionnaires will be a basis for future reevaluation of the jobs using the NEUTRALIZER Evaluation Plan.
All new bargaining unit jobs created by the Company will be evaluated using the NEUTRALIZER.
Any disputes arising as a result of such Post Pay Equity evaluations or re-evaluations which are not settled by the grievance procedure will be submitted to Arbitration as provided herein before.
58