Memorandum of
AGREEMENT
Between
UNITED FOOD1 AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS
INTERNATIONAL, UNION LOCAL 832
And
DOMINION TANNERS (Division of United Canadian Shares Ltd.) Winnipeg, Manitoba
October 1, 1990 to September 30, 1992
1
THIS AGREEMENT mad(;asofthe IstdayofOctober 1990.
BETWEEN:
DOMINION (Division of United Ca: Winnipeg
TANNERS
tjadian Shares Limited) Manitoba
Hereinafter referred t
3 as the “Company”
OF THE FIRST PART
UNITED FOOD A1 D COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTER*'*ATIONAL UNION LOCAL 832
Hereinafter referred to as the “Union”
OF THE SECOND PART
Whereas the parties hereto new agreement relating to of work and other conditions provide methods of harmor.i the company and its employe plish fair and peaceful adjust may arise without interrupt Company’s business.
have agreed to enter into a the rates and wages, hours of employment which will ious co-operation between es, and to that end accom-ment of all disputes which on of the operation of the
2
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Article
1	General Purpose...........................4
2	Union Security........................... 4
3	Reservation of Management Rights..........6
4	Freedom of Employee Action...............7
5	Wages.....................................7
6	Flours of Work and Overtime...............7
1
7	Statutory HolwiayiS.....t................10
8	Vacations...............................  12
9	Slack Seasons............................ 12
10	Transfers. ..............................14
11	Vacancies—Job Postings 1.................15
12	Grievance Procedure.....:................16
13	Sanitary Conditions.....i................18
14	Labour Management Committee..............19
15	Group Insurance..........................20
16 'Strikes and Lockouts....|................22
17	Leave of Absence.........................22
18 Bereavement Pay..........!................23
19	Employees Injured While at Work..........23
20	Jury Duty................................~2A
21	Duration of Agreement.....................
Schedule “A"............................26
Schedule “B”...........,................35
3
It is the intent of this agreement to provide for the
maintenance of harmonio
Company and its employeas: to provide an amicable
method of setting any griev may arise; to promote th Company and its employee
inces or differences which mutual interest of the s; to provide for the oper-
ation of the Company’splar t under methods which will
further to the fullest extei welfare of the employees, proper quantity and quality tion of property: and the CC mutually agree to co-opera such purposes and generall
us relations between the
t possible the safety and economy of operation, a of production and protec-mpany and the employees e fully with each other for to develop the business of
the Company and to promote its welfare.
4
the first Ninety (90)daysof his employment and during this period no notice of termination is required by employee or employer. After completion of his probationary period his seniority shall be back dated to his starting date.
(d)	The Company recognizes right of the Union to have access to the plant through 'ts duly authorized officers or representatives for t*le purpose (which he shall first disclose to the Compar'z^bf dealing with any and all complaints, grievances or disputes.
No employee or Union official will solicit membership in the Union or engage in any Union business or activity on Company time during his working hours or during the working hours of any employee, without first obtaining the written permission of the Employer.
(e)	The Company Will ask ntfw employees to sign union applicationcardsand turn the Signed applicationcard over to the plant chairman.
The Company will deduct from the pay of each employee covered by this agreement having one month or more service, all union dues regardless as to whether the employee concerned is or islnot a member of the Union. The amount to be deducted shall be such sum as may from time to time be assessed by the Union on its members according to its constitution for general union purposes.
The Company will collect and pass on to the Union new employees information, and will deduct initiation fees and assessments upon receipt of individual signed authorization. All deductions shajll be made during the first pay period of each calendar (nonth and shall continue during the currency of this,Agreement. All payments and list of employees will be forwarded to the Union not later than the 15th of the following month.
S
(0 It is mutually under; compulsory check-off heret to the appropriate terms and the arbitration award of the the case of the Ford Moth Limited and the International bile, Aircraft and Agricultui America, dated January 29
food and agreed that the y granted shall be subject conditions prescribed in Hon. Mr. Justice Rand in r Company of Canada Unions. United Automo-ifal Implement Workers of 1946.
(g) Supervisors will not pe except for instruction, trainirf gency, investigation, inspection with work of an incidental n
form bargaining unit work ig, experimentation, emer-or may assist an employee ^ture.
ARTICLE 3 — RE! MANAGEME
NERVATION OF 1ST RIGHTS
(a)	Nothing in this Agr^i or interpreted as. limiting Company to exercise the re; tions of management inclucli tions, curtailment or cessati Union recognizes that s< methods, processes and i solely and exclusively vested
(b)	The Company has demote, transfer, suspend, cipline any employee, subje such employee to file a gri^' inafter provided.
(c) The Company agrees ingsof suspension and/or discli; ten notice to the employee w
. (d> The Union agrees th) the right to make and alter be deemed necessary, rules
:ement shall be construed any way the right of the gular and customary func-ng the extension, limita-on of operations, and the qhedules of production, ns of manufacturing are in the Company, right to hire, promote, discharge or otherwisedis-ct however to the right of vance in the matter here-
t Je
that all penalties and wam-.arge will be coveredby writ-ith copy to the Union.
at the Company shall have from time to time as may and regulations governing
the operation ofthe Company’s business, which rules and regulations shall be observed by the Company’s
employees.
(e) The Company agrees that such rules and regulations so made shall not be incopsistent with the provisions of this Agreement, and on request will discuss proposed changes with the Shop Committee and that such rules and regulations will he posted in a conspi-cious place on a bulletin boarijl on the company’s premises provided by the Company for such purposes.
ARTICLE 4 — FREEDOM bF EMPLOYEE ACTION
There shall be no discrimination, intimidation, restraint, coercion or attempted coercion by or on behalf of the Company, its officers or us agents, or by or on behalf of the Union, its membvt'S or its agents with respect to any employee because of membership or nonmembership in the Union.
ARTICLE 5 — WAGES
Wages payable hereunder shall be in accordance with the rates provided in Schedule “A” hereto and shall be payable in accordance with and subject to the terms and conditions of Schedule “A”.
ARTICLE 6 - HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
(a)	The basic work week for production workers is Forty (40) hours provided that (lue to the particular nature of the Tanning Industry, such hours shall be worked as themethods of tanning and the handling of leather demands without overtifne pay except in the case of:
(i)	Work done in anyone day after eight (8)
7
hours.
(ii) Saturday and maintenance workers except when the plant is in operation on a multi-shift of twenty-four (24) hour basis per day shall be paid for at time t regular rate.
There shall be no work before or after regular plaitt working hours by any employee without permission from or on instruction of the Company. Should an employee receive such permission or instruction, he shall regular working hours of a w< paid at the overtime rate fo:
(b) The basic work week 1
Sunday work including
and one half (1 l/2x) the luring the noon hour or
not work more than the orking day without being such extra time, for maintenance workers
shall be forty (40) hours a week, or eight (8) hours per day. Any work after eight (8) hours per day or forty (40) hours per week shall be paid for at time and one half (1 l/2x) the regular rate.
(c)	If a maintenance worker is called after 6:00 P.M. or before 6:00 A.M. he will paid time and one half (1 l/2x) the regular rate.
(d)	(i) Employees shall not be required to suspend work during regular hours to absorb overtime.
(ii)	When overtim; is required the Company agrees to give notice of overtime one shift in advance (16 hours) except in case of machine breakdown or in circumstances beyond the Company’s control.
(iii)	All overtime work shall be shared equally within each department, subject to the ability of the employee to do the work required.
(iv)	Employees called in to work overtime prior to commencement of his or her regularly scheduled shift shall receive time and one half for the work performed prior to the regular shift start time.
8
Employees working On Saturday and Sunday will be paid time and one half for Saturday and double time for Sunday providing the Saturday has been worked.
(e)	Notwithstanding the above, certain operations shall be classed as “Special Operations” and it is agreed by the Union that in principle the Company shall not be penalized by (a)to (d) above as they apply to these “Special Operations”.
“Special Operations” are those which, due to the tanning practice followed, cannOt be completed within the hours per day specified above and are operations complete in themselves.
it is agreed that time worked over the hours per day specified in the Agreement shall be compensated for by time off but in any case are noi to be computed on a time and one half (1 l/2x) basis Unless exceeding Forty (40)hours per week.
These “Special Operations” shill be those agreed upon by the Company, the Union and the employees concerned. Special operations will consist of the operation of tanning drums and colouring drums.
(f)	Employees working on a shift commencing at 11:00 a. in. or after shall be paid a premium of Thirty-five Cents (S.35) per hour only for hours worked beyond 4:30 p.m.
Employees working on a shift commencing at 10:00 p.m. or after shall be considered 3rd shift and shall be paid premiums of Forty-five Cents ($.45) per hour for their entire shift.
Employees commencing their shift prior to 5:00 a.m. shall be paid a premium of Thirty-f(ve Cents ($.35) per hour foi- all hours worked to 8:00 a.m.
Shift premiums will not be computed into overtime pay.
Employees working on Saturday and/or Sunday as part of a regular shift, and not receiving overtime pay shall
9
receive a premium of either Forty-five cents ($.45) as ap;
(g)	Employees may requ< Forty-eight (48) hours clear or part ofshift excluding casek the case of machine breakdow to work the remainder of the hours rest before being requ
(h)	Employees requestin; the company at least Forty
Thirty-five Cents ($.35) or plicable.
est and if so will be granted notice of any change in shift of machine breakdown. In n the employee shall be able khift and allowed sixteen (16) ired to work his next shift.
time off work will advise -eight (48) hours prior to
(i) Employees shall be allowed rest periods of ten (10) minutes each, one in title forenoon and one in the
afternoon at such time as Company after consultatioi (j) Where an employe
request or command of the company, that employee shall be paid for not less than four (4) hours work at his regular rate, except when operations are interrupted
by Act of God or major se
shall not apply where an e mployee was absent from work the previous day without permission, good reason or notifying the Company.
(k) Any employee absent from work longer than
one day shall notify the Co preceding his return to wot to work.
may be prescribed by the with the Shop Committee. reports for work at the
vice interruptions. Above
mpany as early as possible k, of the date of his return
(m) Employee must keep times of his correct address
10
ARTICLE 7 — STATUTORY HOLIDAYS
(a)	The Company agrees to piay all regular full time employees Eight (8)hour’s pay at their regular wages whether they work or not, for eadh of the statutory holidays named below unless the employee is receiving benefits from Worker’s Comjpensation Board or Company Group Insurance plftn in which case the Company will make up only the difference between employee’s benefits and his regular holiday pay. It shall be incumbent upon the employee to claim payment and provide records of compensation or indemnity payments in order to compute holiday pay portion.
Employees absent on the regular scheduled work days next preceding or next follolwing any paid holiday shal not be entitled to pay for such holiday unless the absentee received permission frdm the Company to be absent or was absent due to sickness and inability to work as certified in writing by acjualified medical practitioner. During layoffs an employee laid off shall not be termed “absent with permission” in this respect.
The statutory holidays to whifch this section applies are New Year’s Day, Good Friday, Victoria Day, Dominion Day, Civic Holiday (Hit Monday in August), Labour Day, Thanksgiving Day, Remembrance Day, Christmas Day, Boxing Day add an Eleventh (11th) statutory holiday to be observed on a date mutually agreed on by the Company and! the employee.
(b)	Any employee required to work on any statutory holiday shall be paid for the statutory holiday plus time and one half (1 l/2x) his regular rate, or receive time off in lieu of that holiday at a date mutually agreed upon between both parties.
(c)	Any employee agreeing to work on a holiday and then fail to report for and perform the said work without reasonable cause, shall riot receive holiday pay
11
ved vacation period, such that plant holiday, or to
for the holiday in question.
(d)	Designated public holidays falling during an approved leave of absence qhall not be paid for.
(e)	If one of the holidays recognized hereunder falls during an employee’s approv employee shall be paid for receive a day off in lieu thereof, at a date mutually agreed upon between both parties.
ARTICLE 8 — VACATIONS
A paid annual vacation phin for employees as set out in Schedule “B” hereto shall be in force during the life
of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 9 — SL^CK SEASONS
(a)	The Company agree:; that in case of a slackening of production or shortage of work, all available work shall, subject to the ability of any employee affected to do such work, be divided equally amongst the regular employees in the department concerned.
(i)	Departmental case of a one day lay off.
(ii)	Should there be work for certain departments on a day of lay off, tpe following shall apply: in case of full department erriployment the regular staff of the department shall work.
in case of only partial department employment, work shall be shared on a rotatioip basis from lay off to lay off, starting with the most! senior employees in the Department.
(iii)	in case additional employees will be required in any one department on the day of layoff, these will be drawn by plant wide seniority subject to ability.
(b)	Should production teach a point where there
seniority shall prevail in
12
are less than Thirty (30) hours work per week in a department the senior (by length pf continuous service) employees of that department shall be retained, subject to the ability of each of these employees to do such work in the department, in the judgement of the management (subject to grievance procedure) and to earn their basic hourly rate at that employment and the employees of lesser seniority shall be “laid otff”. This same princi-pie will apply in rehiring.
The Company will submit prior to their lay-off, a list to the Union containing narfies of employees, who to the best knowledge of the Coippany, will be laid off in excess of five (5) consecutive \yorking days. This does not apply to probationary employees. Employees who will be laid off shall receive one (1) weeks notice of such lay-off.
In the case of lay-off in excess of five (5) consecutive working days, the employee shall have the right to exercise his seniority and bump into another job held by a junior employee, subject to the ability of the senior employee to perform the job.
The employee must advise the Company if he wishes to exercise his bumping right by signifying with a “yes” or “no” answer on a signed form, a copy of which will be given to the Shop Steward.
After familiarization period af two (2) working days on the job bumped into by thejSenior employee such ability must be proven by a continuing job performance at the Scheduled Expectancies. Ifjob performance on or after day three (3) is below the Scheduled Expectancies, then the senior employee shall be laid off.
It is understood, that certail) operations requiring skilled personnel which require framing and experience which in the opinion of the Company, cannot be acquired in two (2) working days, or affect the technical processes, that these jobs should not be subject to


13
bumping.
; order of lay-off, subject l able to perform the avail-qonditions as under the
Cd
X X O CO
U X CU CO X!
4J u o o
a
Cd <U X
o
■M
<U
u
u
cd
: permitted to work during hours while “short time” doing, he would prevent iking “full time” at his , however, that this para-during an emergency or on program requiring one luring other than regular
■ made available to the ^bsted every 6 months.
e
o
cj
cw
CO
0
cd
u
H
tr4> Hi
•h cd u n cd
U C o o
(X *H 0 4J
a> cd • 4J o a)
•H 4-1
co 4-4 cd
•H *rl M
CO
tU CO H
a; cd qj
JbH £
o a to ■H -H
a. x x 0 o 0)
1 0) X
I CU vH M (U V V , xi <u
		cd
r-H	c	M
•rH	o	
	•H	U
cd	4-1	cd
u	cd	rH
o	CJ	3
CL.	•r)	00
,S	CM	0)
CU	•rH	u
4-1	CO	
	CO	u
CO	cd	0J
*iH	rH	X
u
CU M
cd x o >> o O •(-} co i—t	-H
i* x ^
CU 4J 0)
fi	<U	*H
cd	i-i
<D O <4H	x	OJ
H	3	M
*e is
II re i he ( ove ng p.
ed in writing of any tem-s of five (5) working days, cess of thirty (30) working rary job. Any vacancies will not be posted.
"ily transferred to avoid bceive his or her regular utivedays. After five(5J *11 receive the rate of pay Is-transferred. permanently transferred eive the training rate of r she regularly achieves Eighty percent (80%). firiod shall be allowed for
y n «
14
any permanent transfer. If afterjcompletion of the 30 day training period the employed’ docs not qualify for the new job, in the opinion of th<|i Company, he or she may be re-assigned by the Company to another job, at the prevailing rate of thatjob. However, the employee so affected may request, at that time, to return to his or her former job at the rate of pay he or she received prior to the transfer, providing tjhat his or her former job is occupied by a probationary employee.
(c)	After a Ninety (90)day qualifying period in a department an employee's lengthjof continuous service with the Company shall become pis or her department seniority.
ARTICLE 11 - VACANCIES JOB POSTING
(a)	it is agreed thatjob openings shall be posted and the Company shall give preference to employees in its employ whenever this is possible provided such opening was not caused by three consecutive previous job postings.
The union will receive a copy of all job postings with the names of those who apply fo : the posting, and the name of the successful applicant.
(b)	The Company agrees to post j ob vacancies for a period of three (3) working dajys.
(c)	Is is agreed that acceptance of the job posted shall be subject to seniority.
(d)	Successfuljob applicant&forjob posting may not re-apply for a period of Six (6) months from the date of their last transfer.
(e)	Job openings in entry positions need not be posted.
Entry positions are:
(i)	All jobs in labour grade #8
IS
(d) If an employee is disnKi soever and feels that he has bi may within two (2) working d of dismissal, notify the Gri shall within two working day in writing for a review of the sal. The dismissal shall then shall be dealt with hereunde second step. If it is subs* employee was unjustly dismi in his former position at his
lissed for any cause what-ieen unjustly dealt with he ays from receipt of notice ievance Committee, who s, apply to the Company facts leading to his dismis-constitute a grievance and ier commencing with the icquently agreed that the issed he shall be reinstated regular rate of pay from
ARTICLE 13 — SANIT
ARY CONDITIONS
(a) The Company agree;
tary conditions in its plant in visions of any law, statute, ru thereto, and the Union shall a|i ing safety provisions and mai conditions. The Company reasonable provisions for safe employees and will supply ru tools, rubber boots and other be required. As equipment returned to the Company be made. No such equipment off company property. Empl ble care of such equipment a destroying or neglecting to shall pay the Company for
to maintain proper sani-
accordance with the pro-e or regulation applicable ssist the Company enforc-intaining sanitary working undertakes to make all guarding the health of the bber gloves, aprons, hand protecting devices as may wears out it must be ore any replacement will or devices are to be taken oyees shall take reasona-nd any employee willfully take proper care thereof such equipment at cost.
II
(b)	A Sanitation and Safety (Ji'ommittee shall be set up consisting of Three (3) menjibers selected by the Company and Three (3) members selected by the Union, with one alternating chairman.
The Company will endeavour to have plant inspections and committee meetings once per month but not less than once every three (3) months. Copies of the minutes of such meetings shall be posted within one week on the plant bulletin board and copies shall be filed with the Department of Labour, the Company and the Union.
(c)	it is compulsory for all plhnt employees to wear safety footwear. The Company will pay $45.00 towards the cost of safety footwear once a year to all regular full time employees. This is subject to proof Of purchase. Probationary employees will be reimbursed after completion of their probationary period.
Any employee reporting to work without safety footwear shall be sent hometochangi shoes, he or she must make up the time lost, or his or her absence will be “without good reason”.
ARTICLE 14 — LABOUR MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE
The Company and the Union may set up a Labour Management Committee to consist of representatives of the Company and of the Union for the purpose of promoting co-operation between the Company and its employees in the interest of efficiency in production. A meeting of this committee shall take place every Three (3)months.
ARTICLE 15 — CROUP INSURANCE
(a) The Company agrees lo cover all regular employees with a Group Life Insurance and Sick
19
October 1, 1974.
(iji) Weekly Ind Employees to receive Sixty-Si: (66 2/3%) of weekly earnir annual earnings to the cl maximum equal to prevailin ance Commission maxim Payment of weekly indemnity day of absence due to accide: confinement exceeding Thre of absence due to illness and of Twenty-Six (26) weeks and required by the insurance cc (iv) The Company Percent (85%) of the premiui Fifteen Percent (15%) shall concerned.
GROUP LIFE INSURANCE
emnity Coverage — x and Two Thirds Percent tgs (based on estimated osest $1,000.00 with a g Unemployment Insur-um weekly payment. to commence on the First ;nt or immediate hospital e (3) days and Fourth day continue for a maximum subject to medical reports mpany.
■ shall pay Eighty-Five m costs. The remainder of be paid by the employee
Life insurance of $50,000. Th: reduced to One-half (1/2) whe (65)years of age.
lis coverage is automatically n employees are Sixty-Five
The Company shall pay Ei. the premium cost of the Grou
LONG TERM DISABILIT
Cost shared 50-50 by Employees.
dhty-
-Five Percenl (85%) of p Life Insuiance.
PLAN
[he Company and the
20
To be eligible an employee mpst have completed Two
(2)	years’ service with the Company.
Benefits as per separate brcxfhure available in Personnel Office.
PENSION PLAN
it is compulsory that all employeesjoin the Pension Plan when they become eligible.
To be eligible an employee milst have completed Two
(2)	years’ service with the Company and have attained the age of 21 years and not 65 years or over.
Once having become a member of the Plan an employee may not withdraw While employed by the Company.
DENTAL PLAN
Cost to be shared 50-50 by the Company and the Employees. Dental Benefits shill be payable based on current year fee schedule of i the Manitoba Dental Association ■ and the Manitoba Dental Merchants Association.
Employees to be offered one of two optional plans:
Option A
Basic Work	100%
Major Restorative	50%
Option B
Basic Work	100%
Major Restorative	80%
Those choosing Option Birmst attend a dental clinic designated by the insurance company.
The above mentioned program is subject to a Three
(3)	month waiting period at the beginning of employment.
21
ARTICLE 16 — STRIKI/JAND LOCKOUTS
There shall be no lockolt, or shutdown by the Company, or strikes, slowdoVns, shutout or suspension of work, by the Unijrn or the Company’s employees during the currency of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 17 - LEA lOF ABSENCE
The Company agrees to without loss of seniority to a
MftmWason’however’e
ant leave of absence mployee for good and h case shall be treated
dates for it. rpose of attending Union
Such Leave of Absence shall not unreasonably interfere with the efficient operation of the plant.
All request for leave of absence must be submitted in writing stating reason and i
Leave of Absence for the pur Schools, Conventions, Conferences, and positions with the Union shall be granted by the Company on a written request from the Local subject to the following conditions:
(a)	Employees not to excef'd one (1) at any one time chosen by the Union, shall be granted Leave of Absence not exceeding Sixty (60)days\yithin a 12 month period.
For such Leave of Absencs): of more than Seven (7) days, the Union shall give the Company written notice of not less than Thirty (30)d(iys before the requested leave is to commence.
(b)	Employees are not to exceed Three (3) at any one time, chosen by the Uniojt shall be granted Leave of Absence not exceeding Sevtjn (7) days, provided that the absence of each such employee shall not unreasonably affect the operation of the Company.
The Union shall give the Company written notice of not less than Fourteen (14) <|lays before a requested
22
leave of Seven (7) days or less IS to commence.
An employee shall lose his seniority standing if he
overstays a leave of absence, granted by the Company, for more than Two (2) consecutive working days without good reason and notifying the Company.
For Leave of Absence to ,be valid, it must be approved and confirmed by the Company in writing.
ARTICLE 18 - BEREAVEMENT PAY
Employees will begranted leave of absenceof up to three (3(successive regular wroking days, not to extend beyond the date of the funeral, without loss of pay in the event of a death in the immediate family! Father, Mother, Wife, Flusband, Daughter, Son, Sister, Brother, Mother-in-Law, Father-in-Law.
After return to work the employee shall complete daily time sheet for the period of bereavement to make up his pay.
ARTICLE 19 - EMPLOYEES INJURED WHILE AT WORK
If an employee is injured ‘at work and sent for medical attention and then is unable to report back to work to complete that day’s work the Company will make up the lost pay for the remainder of the shift on the condition that the employeevisits a neightbourhood clinic or hospital and immediajtely after the examination submits the physician’s report to his foreman.
The employee will complete his daily time sheet showing time lost due to i njury and doctor’s visit and the foreman will so certify.
ARTICLE 20 - JURY DUTY
When an employee is called upon to serve on a jury
23
or act as a witness for the Cro lose time from work, the cor' employee the difference betw the Crown and the employee excluding shifts or other pre hours he or she otherwise w> to the following conditions: Conditions
Wn, and must, as a result, ipany agrees to pay such een the fee received from s straight time basic rate, miums for the scheduled ould have worked subject
(a)	The Employee must n after receiving notice of jur
(b)	If the employee is fl excused from attendance in to work within two (2)houi
(c)	It shall be incumben claim payment and to provide court remunerations, if so re
ARTICLE 21 - DURATI
This Agreement shall be dee
on the 1st Dav of October 1990 and shall remain in force
until the 30th Day of September. 1992.ar d thereafter from
otify the company at once i or crown witness duty. >t chosen or temporarily Court he must report back
t upon the employee to proof of such service and quired by the Company.
ON OF AGREEMENT
ned to have come into force
year to year unless either party gives to the other party writ ten notice of cancellation within a period of not less thar Sixty (60) days and not more :han Ninety (90) days prioi to such expiration date.
Within Twenty (20) days of the giving and receipt of such notice the parties hereto shalllmeet and attempt to negotiate the continuance of the Agreement and if such negotiations are not successful prior to such expiration date, then this Agreement shall terminate thereon unless thetime for such negotiations is extended by mutual consent.
24
IN WITNESS WHEREOFthe parties'hereto have caused this Agreement to be executed by their duly authorized officers —
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION LOCAL	DOMINION TANNERS
25
SCHEDULE“A”
Attached to and forming part of the Agreement made as of the 1st Day of October 1990 between Dominion Tanners and Local 832 United Food and Commercial Workers International Union: Raies:
1)	Remuneration of all hourly paid production employees is governed by a System of Scheduled Expectancies of performance and related job classification for the work performed as currently in force, as drafted by the Company and approved by the Committee representing the Union. It is understood that the expected rate of productivity is 85%.
2)	The j ob classification rates for hourly paid employees shall be those in effect on October 1, 1990 and as added to during the life of this current agreement.
Os 3) The following minimum rates shall apply to all employees except elevator operators, temporary and relief watchmen, pratyanuriHry employees and trainees.---------------------------- -------
		Reg. Raie	Train. Rate	Reg. Rate	Train. Raie
Labour		10/1/90	10/1/90	10/1/91	10/1/91
Grade Job Title I Leadhand	Department	Per Hr.	Per Hr.	Per Hr.	Per Hr.
1 Hidehouse 1 Flesher I Split Side Operatoi I Colorer I Color Piler I Chrome Piler 1 Final Sorter	Hide House Bearnhouse Blue Dept Coloring Coloring Bearnhouse Final Sori	12.53	Y Y3	13.03	10.43
1

I.ahour Grade 2 2 2 2 2 2 2	Job Title Split Sides (Feeder) Shaves Sides Split Splits (Operator) Vac. Dryer Sylflex Treating Blue Sorter Blue Re-Sort	Department Blue Dept Blue Dept Blue Dept. Dry Dept. Finishing Blue Sort Blue Soir	Reg. Raie 10/1/90 Per Hr. 12.18	Train. Raie 10/1/90 Per Hr. 9.83	Reg. Rale 10/1/91 Per Hr. 12.68
3	Wringer	Blue Dept.	11.83	9.73	12.33
3	B/H Trimmer	Beamhouse			
3	Paste Split	Dry Dept.			
3	Paste Side	Dr\ Dept.			
$	Bundling Siue's	SRi-pptng			
3	lake Out Fleshings	Beamhouse			
4	Shave Splits	Blue Dept
4	Split Splits Feeder	Blue	Dept.
4	Setting Out	l)r\ Dept
4	Water Spra>	Dr\ Dept
4 Night Chrome Ianner Beamhouse 4	Cutting Bloekers
4	Spot Shaving
4	Crust Sortei
1.48
9.63
1.98
Train. Rale 10/1/91 Per Hr.
lo n
10.23
10.13
c iust soit
			Reg. Rate	Train. Raie	Reg Rate	Train. Rate
Labour			10/1/90	10/1/90	10/1/91	10/1/91
Grade	Job Title	Department	Per Hr.	Per Hr.	Per Hr.	Per Hr.
5	Paste Making	Dry Dept	11 13	9 53	II 63	10 03
5	Curtain Coat	Finishing				
5	Trim Splits & Grade	Blue Dept				
5	Trim VD Sides	Dry Dept				
5	Load B/H Drums	Beamhouse				
5	All Other Beamhouse	Beamhouse				
5	Blue Sort					
5	Take Away	Blue Dept				
5	Make Up Color Loads	Blue Dept				
5	Trim After Shaving	Blue Dept				
-5- -	Colour Mixei—	Finishing		—				- 		—
5	Shipping Clerk	Shipping				
5	Forklift Operator	Receiving				
6	Coloring Helper	Coloring	10 83	9 38	II 33	9 88
6	Piling Colored Splits					
	(Basement)	Coloring				
6	Hand Staking	Staking				
6	Buffing Operator	Buffing				
6	Hand Spray	Finishing				
6	Measure Sides & Ship Lists					
	(Take Off)	Shipping				
6	Kela Machine Feeding	Finishing				
6	Toggling	Finishing				
Labour
Grade	Job Title	Department
7	Receiver Helper	Receiving
7	Load and Unload Truck	Receiving
7	Hanging Sider (Wet)	Dry Dept.
7	Take Out & Trim Pasting	Dry Dept.
7	Trim Dry Leather (in	
	drying area)	Dr> Dept
7	Hang Light Leather	
	Ceiling	Dry Dept.
7	Sorting (Blue) Helper	Blue Dept.
7	Make Up Color Load	
	Helper	Blue Dept.
7	Load Split Drum	Blue Dept
7	Fork Lift Operator	Blue Dept
7	Cartigliano	Staking
7	Molissa	Staking
7	Hand Swab	Finishing
7	Season M/C	Finishing
7	Press Sheridan/Famosa	Finishing
7	Spray M/C	Finishing
7	Oiling	Finishing
7	Measure Sider Feed	Finishing
7	Measure & Bundle Splits	Shipping
7	Load & Unload Truck	Shipping
Rep. Rate 10/1/90 Per Hr. 10.53
Train. Rate 10/1/90 Per Hr.
Y.OR
Reg. Raie 10/1/91 Per Hr. 11.03
Train. Raie 10/1/91 Per Hr.
9.58
Labour
Grade Job Title
Forklift Operator R.F. Dryer Feeding Material Handler
Department
Shipping Dry Dept.
Reg. Rate	Train. Rate	Reg. Rate	Train. Rate
10/1/90	10/1/90	10/1/91	10/1/91
Per Hr. Per Hr. Per Hr. Per Hr.
10.53	9.08	11.03	9.58
8 8 8 8 8 8	Staking Splits Piling Sides & Splits Unload Mill Drums Pile Splits Hanging Staked Sides	Staking Dry Dept. Buffing Blue Dept. Staking	10.23	9.03	10.73	9.53
	(Brushing)	Buffing				
8	Milling (Load &Unload)	Buffing				
8	Trim After Toggle	Finishing				
8	Llhr. Dryer (Hanging &					
	Takedown)	Finishing				
8	Moving Chemical & Loads Finishing					
8	Trim & Pile Splits	Shipping				
Reg. Kate Train. Raie Reg. Raie Train. Kate 10/1/90	10/1/90	10/1/91	10/1/91
Per Hr.	Per Hr.	Per Hr.	Per Hr.
MAINTENANCE DEPARTMENT Mechanic Helper Clean Up, Oil and Greaser Sweeper and Janitorial
10/1/90	101/91
Per Hr.	Per Hr.
Industrial Mechanic, Millwright, Electrician, etc
(with Dept, of Labour Certificate)	$15.55	$16.05
Industrial Mechanic, Millwright, Electrician, Etc (without Dept of Labour Certificate)
10.83	9.38	1 1.33	9.88
10.53	9.08	11.03	9.58
10.23	9 03	10.73	9.53
$14.05
$14.55
ing rate as specified under Rates and Job Classifications for 30 days of their probaticnary period, or until they regularly achieve an S/E performance above 80%. All eligible employees will receive the applicable job classification rate for eachjob preformed. If an employee works other than his main job, he will receive the applicable job rate for Ihe job performed. All employees must maintain a minimum of 80% productivity within the System of Scheduled Expectancies. Any employee dropping be ow the level on a regular basis will be retrained, at training rate, until he or she achieves the required productivity level. Should an employee be unable to achieve the required level, he or she will be transferred to another job at the prevailing rate of the other job.
TheG.S.T. Protection Factoi rates in the Agreement effective ing the determination of the if
r shall be added to all laboui the first pay period follow hange in the C.P.I.
The GST Protection Factor shall be paid retroactively to October 1, 1991 at the end of the second pay
period following the determination of the change in the
C.P.I
6)	(a) Each employee will be paid commencing at
the first day after the first quarter date following one year’s continuous employment with the Company, a 2% service bonus. Such service wjll be payable each pay day thereafter and will be calculated on the employee’s earned wages during the period f|'om the preceding pay day.
(b)	On each subsequent annual anniversary of said quarter date and provided the employee has been continuously employed during the preceding year, the said service bonus to which the erpployee is entitled will be increased by 1 % until a maxirpum service bonus of 10°7o is reached, following which there will be no further increase.
(c)	A “quarter date” shall mean January 1st, April 1st, July 1st and October 1st.
(d)	An employee shall be deemed to have been continuously employed during a year (the period between commencement of such employee’s employment and the first annual anniversary thereof, or, as the case may be between the employee’s quarter date and the first annual anniversary thereof), if during such year the employee works for the Company on each regular working day. For the purpose of this paragraph 6, the following days shall not be considered to be regular working days.:
(i)	Statutory Holidays
(ii)	Vacation Period
(iii)	Days, which the employee is laid off by the Company
33
(iv)	Days not; exceeding thirteen in number during which the employee is absent without permission, and
(v)	The aggregate periods arc not exceeding Thirty working d‘ Vs in all comprising time during which the employee Pas been authorized by the Company to be absent fron* vvork and time for illness and compensation in respec* of which the employee files with the Company a certificate signed by a duly qualified medical practit’°ner showing that the employee was not in the opinion of the medical practitioner, fit to work during t|hat time by reason of his illness.
(e)	If an employee who has worked for the Company for a period of lr’s than nine years fails in any year to be continuous^ Employed, as defined in paragraph 6(d) the anniversd 'y date of commencement of employment of such emplbyee shall be extended by the number of regular workil'g days not worked by the employee in such year and such extended date shall thereafter be regarded as the anniversary date of commencement of such emplo^&e, and the quarter date upon which the employee corntnences to receive service bonus, or an increase in ser\! fee bonus, as the case may be, shall be the first quaijter date following such
extended date.
(f)	If an employee iwho has worked for the Company for a period gredt§r than nine years fails in any year to becontinuouly employed as defined in paragraph 6(d) the employee after his return to work and provided his employment be Tbntinued shall not be entitled to any service bonus fo( a number of days equal to the number of regular working days not worked by the employee in such year. Provided that nothing in
34
paragraph 6(e) or in this paragraph (f) shall affect the right of the Company to term inajte the employment of the employee forun-authorized absence, subject to the other terms of this Agreement, and in the event of such termination the employee shall be regarded as a new employee if later re-employed.
(g)	Upon termination of an employee's employment with the Company, the employee shall thereby lose his service bonus, seniority and percentage and if later re-employed shall foi- the purpose be considered a new employee.
7)	(a) The Company shall have the right to make
changes in jobs, equipment, methods or routine of production, to install new operations, bonus, attendance or incentive plans. The Uriion will not interfere with time studies and ail employees of whom study is made will co-operate to the fullest extent.
(b)	On new work of materially different operation or a significant change 'in job content, the employees assigned shall be paid for conscientious and diligent effort at production for four (4)weeks at their hourly rate in effect at that time. This does not include transfers or job changes through postings.
During the 4 week period the Company shall draft Scheduled Expectancies applied thereto.
During the ensuring 60 days these Scheduled Expectancies may be subject to review by the Company and the Union together and if not settled to the satisfaction of both parties it shall be settled by standard grievance procedure as provided.
(c)	Notwithstanding Paragraph 1 of this Schedule A the Company shall have the light from time to time to increase the Scheduled Expectancies affecting anyjob, following the introduction of a more efficient piece of
35
machinery or improved methods, and if such increases may
the introduction of such i employee shall be deemed
be reasonably attributed to machinery or method. Any sue to be on new work of materially different operations or affected by a significant change in job content within the meaning of Paragraph 7(b) for determining a final Sched uled Expectancy rate for such a job shall apply.
SCHEDULE “B’
of this Agreement made 990 between Dominion Tan-■mmerclal Workers Interna-
Attached to and forming pi as of the 1st Day of October 1 ners and United Food and Coi tional Union Local 832 —
The Schedule of VacatioirPrivileges and the Conditions under which Employees may be granted Vacations with Pay:
1.	The qualifying period mder this plan shall be the twelve (12) month period immediately preceding June 30th.
2.	All employees with less than five (5) years continuous service with the Company shall receive vacation pay equivalent to Four Percent (4%) of their gross earnings as follows:
(a)	Employees who nave been less than one (1) year continuous service prirr to the vacation period shall receive Four Percent (41%) of their earnings from commencement date of their employment. Vacation pay to be calculated to the closest pay period ending prior to June 30th.
(b)	Employees who have been more than one year’s continuous service but less than one and one-half year’s service prior to June 3^th in any year shall receive 4% of their gross earningp for the twelve months immediately preceding Junt 30th.
36
(c) Employees who have more than one (1) year’s continuous service as of January 1st of the current vacation year shall be paid Four Percent (4%) of their grossearnings asshowi]ontheirT4 TaxForm issued by the Company for the previous calendar year.
3.	Each employee with five (5) years continuous service shall receive three (3) weeks vacation with pay at Six Percent (6%) of gross annual earnings as shown on his T4 Tax Form issued by the Company for the previous calendar year.
As at October 1, 1989 each employee with Ten (10) years of continuous service shall receive four (4)weeks vacation with pay at Eight Percent (8%) of gross annual earnings as shown on his T4 Tax Form issued by the Company for the previous calendar year.
As at October 1, 1989 each employee with Twenty (20)years of continuous service shall receive five (5Jwceks vacation with pay at Ten Percent (10%)of gross annual earnings as shown on his T4 Tax Formissued by the Company for the previous calendar year.
Ar at October I, 1990 each employee with Thirty (30) years of continuous service shall receive six (6)weeks vacation with pay at Twelve Percent (12%) of gross annual earnings as shown on his T4 Tax Form issued by the Company lor the previous calendar year.
4.	Any employee who leaves his employment prior to the vacation period shall receive Four Percent (4%), Six Percent (6%), Eight Percent (8%), Ten Percent (10%), or Twelve Percent (12%), (as the case may be) of gross earnings since the last vacation period.
5.	All deductions normally made from an employee’s regular pay shall be deducted from his vacation pay.
37
6.	Any employee who is during the plant shutdown s tion at some other time to be
7.	Whenever practic endeavour to provide work for those employees who ar hereunder.
8.	In case an employee request of the Company any will be allowed to accumul^t them to be exercised,
9.	Each eligible employe^ tion at a period to be design, Company may require the providing of a vacation pe: stagger vacation periods so t may be maintained.
10.	All vacation time ir shall be taken at a time Company and the employee continuous to the three (3) by both parties.
Employees with more than ment may take their full vac but not more than Ten Pcrceru be allowed to be away for v; understood that if an emplo full vacation entitlement, tl writing to the Company by Employees may split their vac, ing to the Personnel Office t
11.	The Company will e: vacations prior to April 1 st i be taken in the year in whl
ithlS'
equired to remain on duty hall be entitled to his vaca-pecified by the Company, alble the Company will during the vacation period e not eligible for vacation
f oregoes his vacation at the unused vacation privileges :e until conditions permit
shall commence his vaca-ated by the Company. The plant to be dosed for the hod, or at its option, may lat continuous production
excess of three (3) weeks greed upon between the :oncerned but shall not be eeks, unless agreed upon
d't

e (3) weeks vacation entitle-on entitlement by seniority (KWoJperdepartment may htion at one time. It is alto wishes to take his or her r request must be made in 1.
ttion pay if requested in writ-June 1st.
ndeavour to set the date for n any year. Vacations must they are earned.
April
(kh
3d