Effective Date:	February 1, 1994
Expiry Date:	January 31, 1996
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
Between
A. R. CLARKE & CO. LIMITED Toronto, Ontario
(hereinafter called the "Company")
and
local 175
UNITED FOOD & COMMERCIAL WORKERS' UNION
CLC, AFL-CIO
(hereinafter called the "Union")
SEP 22 W96
TNDEX OF CONTENTS
ARTICLES CONTEXT
PAGE
ARTICLE 1 ARTICLE 2 ARTICLE 3
ARTICLE 4 ARTICLE 5 ARTICLE 6 ARTICLE 7 ARTICLE 8 ARTICLE 9 ARTICLE 10 ARTICLE 11 ARTICLE 12 ARTICLE 13 ARTICLE 14 ARTICLE 15 ARTICLE 16 ARTICLE 17 ARTICLE 18 ARTICLE 19 ARTICLE 20 ARTICLE 21 ARTICLE 22 ARTICLE 23 ARTICLE 24 ARTICLE 25 ARTICLE 26 SCHEDULE "A" SCHEDULE "A" SCHEDULE "A" SCHEDULE "A" SCHEDULE "A" SCHEDULE "B" SCHEDULE"C" SCHEDULE"D"
PURPOSE RECOGNITION UNION MEMBERSHIP AND UNION DUES MANAGEMENT FUNCTIONS STRIKES AND LOCKOUTS UNION REPRESENTATION GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE ARBITRATION SENIORITY
LAYOFF AND RECALL
LEAVE OF ABSENCE
HOURS OF WORK
OVERTIME
SHIFTS
WAGES
HOLIDAYS
VACATIONS
BENEFITS	.
BEREAVEMENT ALLOWANCE
EMERGENCY GUARANTEE
TOOL ALLOWANCE
JURY DUTY
SAFETY AND HEALTH
NOTICES
FOOTWEAR
DURATION OF AGREEMENT
WAGE ADMINISTRATION
TABLE 1
TABLE 2
TABLE 3
TABLE 4
HOURS OF WORK PAY EQUITY
3
3
3
4
4
5
6 8 8
12
14
15
17
18 18 21
23
24 26 27 27 27
27
28 29 29 31 33
35
36 39 42 44 46
2
ARTICLE 1 • PURPOSE
1.01	The purpose of this Agreement is to establish mutually satisfactory relations
between the Company and its employees covered by this Agreement and to provide machinery for the prompt, equitable disposition of grievances.
ARTICLE 2 - RECOGNITION
2.01	The Company recognizes the Union as the exclusive bargaining agent for all of its employees in Toronto, save and except forepersons, supervisors, persons above the rank of foreperson or supervisor, chief engineer, consulting chemists, chief chemist, nurse, office and sales staff, (janitors and watchmen working less than 24 hours a week), and all such employees shall be covered by this Agreement.
2.02	It is recognized that forepersons, in addition to their managerial functions, may do work that is ordinarily done by members of the Bargaining Unit, as defined in Schedule B herein.
2.03	In the event that the Company purchases the shares or assets of another company that do not principally involve leather tanning operations which are absorbed and carried on in Toronto then the employees working in this new subsidiary or division will not be covered by this Agreement. Employees covered by this Agreement will not have any rights or entitlements relating to such work.
(a) However, the Company and the Union shall negotiate a separate Collective Agreement recognizing any such new Bargaining Unit, assuming that there are no subsisting bargaining rights that would preclude the Union.
ARTICLE 3 - UNION MEMBERSHIP AND UNION DUES
3.01	It shall be a condition of employment that any employee who is a member of
the Union upon the signing of this Agreement shall remain so for as long as he is an employee under this Agreement and that any new employee hired into the Bargaining Unit shall become a member of the Union at most 60 working days from his starting date and shall remain so for as long as he is an employee under this Agreement.
3
3.02	The Company shall deduct from the first wages and all subsequent wages due each employee, covered by this Collective Agreement, the regular union dues and initiation fee as from time to time indicated, to the Company, by the Union, in writing. It shall be the responsibility of the Union to advise the Company of such obligations and no employee shall lose or be refused membership in the Union for non-payment of regular dues if the Union has not specifically advised the Company of such obligations.
The Union shall save the Company harmless from any costs whatsoever resulting from any dispute as between any employee or employees and the Union as the validity of obligation in respect of such regular dues.
3.03	The Company shall remit to the Union, by the 15th of the month following deduction, all dues and fees deducted along with a list on the form provided by the Union showing from whom deducted, S. I. N., address of first deduction and if changed, and if no deduction the reason why. This information will be provided on computer diskettes, or tape, supplied by the Union, if software is mutually compatible.
3.04	The Employer will ensure that all new employees, upon completion of the probationary period, complete a membership application form (as supplied by the Union) and forward the same to the Union Office with the regular monthly union dues.
ARTICLE 4 • MANAGEMENT FUNCTIONS
4.01	All aspects of management shall be the exclusive prerogative of the Company,
subject only to the terms of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 5 - STRIKES AND LOCKOUTS
5.01	It is understood and agreed that there shall be no strike, concerted work
stoppage, slowdown, or other such activity by the Union or by any of its members during the term of this Agreement or while negotiations for its renewal or amendment are in progress. It is further understood and agreed that should there be any strike, concerted work stoppage, slowdown, or other such activity by any of the said members, the Union shall make and continue to make every effort to prevent or stop such action and shall condemn such action.
4
5.02	It is understood and agreed that there shall be no "lockouts" by the Company
during the term of this Agreement or while negotiations for its renewal or amendment are in progress.
ARTICLE 6 ■ UNION REPRESENTATION
6.01	For the purpose of discussing and adjusting matters arising out of the interpretation, application or administration of this Agreement, and for the processing of grievances as hereinafter set out, the Company shall recognize a Shop Steward for each thirty (30) active members (or majority fraction thereof) of the Union employed by the Company. One of the stewards shall be Chairperson, and will be kept on day shift provided that, in the opinion of the Company, Chairperson being on day shift does not interfere with the efficient operation of the Plant. The Bargaining and Grievance Committee which shall be comprised of no more than three (3) members, shall meet with representatives of the Company as necessary. A Full-time Representative of the Union shall be a member of this Bargaining and Grievance Committee and attend all negotiating meeting, grievance meetings beginning at Step 2 of the grievance procedure contained hereinafter, and may attend any other meeting held between the Company and the Bargaining and Grievance Committee. Accredited officials of the Union shall have access to the plant premises upon reasonable notice to the Production Manager or designate.
6.02	For the purpose of processing employees' grievances as hereinafter set out, the Company shall recognize Shop Stewards as set out herein. The Union shall keep the Company informed, in writing and within 30 days of any changes in the members of the Bargaining and Grievance Committee, the stewards and the chairperson of the Bargaining and Grievance Committee. It is understood and agreed that the first responsibility of Shop Steward is to their work for the Company and they shall not leave such work except in the performance of their duties under this Agreement, and then only in such a way as to cause the least possible loss of production and order, and they must explain the nature of his business to each Supervisor involved.
6.03	The Shop Chairperson shall carry out any duties under this agreement under the same conditions as a Shop Steward but in respect of all those areas in which employees under this Agreement are employed.
6.04	Grievance Committee persons and Stewards shall not lose pay while carrying out their duties under this Agreement during regular working hours.
5
6.05	No employee shall, in any manner, be discriminated against on the basis of Union membership, Union activity, or the exercise of any rights under this Agreement.
6.06	No employee shall, in any manner, be discriminated against on the basis of race, religion, ancestry, national origin, sex or marital status as per the Ontario Human Rights Code.
6.07	Each employee shall have the right to examine their personal disciplinary file upon submission of a written request to the Company. A representative of the Company and the Union if requested will be present during the examination of the file and if requested by the employee, will supply copies of any documents in the said file.
6.08	The Company will pay the members of the Bargaining Committee a maximum of eight hours pay for each day spent in negotiations for the renewal of the Collective Agreement, if these negotiations are held in the Company’s Boardroom.
ARTICLE 7 - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
7.01	Any employee with seniority who feels they have a grievance under this Agreement shall discuss the matter with their foreperson, with a view to prompt settlement or explanation thereof. The employee’s Shop Steward may accompany that employee in such discussion if the employee so desires.
7.02	If the employee is not satisfied after the above discussion, the grievance shall be settled in accordance with the following procedure:
Step 1 The grievance shall be set down in writing and presented to the Production Manager (or designate) within ten (10) working days of the occurrence of the issue being grieved. The Company shall answer the grievance in writing within five (5) working days from receipt thereof.
Step 2 Should the employee or the Bargaining and Grievance Committee still not be satisfied, the grievance shall be referred to a meeting of the Bargaining and Grievance Committee and the Company. Such meeting shall be held as promptly as possible. Within eight (8) days of such meeting, the Company shall deliver its answer to the Chairperson of the Bargaining and Grievance Committee, with a copy to the Full-time Union Representative.
Should the above meeting not have taken place within fifteen (15) working days of referral, then either party may proceed to arbitration.
6
7.03
7.04
7.05
7.06
7.07
7.08
7.09
Time limits in this Article and Article 8 may be modified or extended by mutual agreement in writing.
Discharge Cases
In the event that an employee with seniority is discharged, the Bargaining and Grievance Committee and the Full-time Union Representative shall be so notified within two (2) working days where possible. A claim by an employee with seniority that such employee has been unjustly discharged shall be treated as a grievance and may be taken to arbitration if a written statement of such grievance is lodged with the Company under Article 7.02 (b), Step 2, within five (5) working days of the above notification to the Bargaining and Grievance Committee and the Full-time Union Representative.
Such special grievances may be settled by the Board of Arbitration by:
1.	confirming the Company’s action in dismissal of the employee;
2.	reinstating the employee with full compensation for time lost; or
3.	any other arrangement which may be deemed just and equitable.
Matters arising out of the interpretation, application or administration of this Agreement of a general nature may be the subject of a grievance which may be initiated by either party. Such grievance shall be entered at the 2nd Step.
Either party shall have the right to require the attendance of the grievor at any meeting held pursuant to the grievance procedure.
An agreement reached between the Management and the Bargaining and Negotiating Committee, subject to due process, is binding on all workers affected and cannot be changed by any individual.
If an employee’s work record is free of suspension for a twelve month period, then all prior suspensions or written notations or warnings relating to the conduct of the employee, shall be removed from the employee’s record.
The Company agrees that if a meeting is called between the Company and an employee for the purpose of discipline a steward will be present, if a steward is present on that shift.
7
ARTICLE 8 - ARBITRATION
8.01	In the event that a grievance is not satisfactorily settled under the grievance procedure, either party may refer the grievance to a sole arbitrator.
8.02	The party desiring the arbitration shall notify, in writing, the other party of its desire to arbitrate. Such notice shall contain a list of at least (3) qualified arbitrators.
8.03	The party receiving the notice shall forthwith either:
(a)	notify the first party of its acceptance of one of the arbitrators listed, or
(b)	provide to the first party a list of at least three (3) qualified arbitrators, from which to choose.
8.04	If the parties are unable to agree on an arbitrator within 30 days of the first notice, then the Minister of Labour shall be requested to appoint an Arbitrator.
8.05	The Arbitrator shall convene a hearing as promptly as possible to hear the case.
8.06	The Arbitrator shall be given access to the plant, should such access be requested by either party.
8.07	The parties shall jointly bear the expenses, if any, of the Arbitrator.
8.08	The Arbitrator shall not be authorized to alter, modify, or amend any of the provisions of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 9 ■ SENIORITY
9.01	Subject to the provisions of this Agreement respecting the same, an employee's seniority shall be determined by the length of such employee's continuous employment with the Company.
9.02	The first sixty (60) working days of an employee's employment with the Company shall be a probationary period, after which such employee shall become an employee with seniority, dating from the day such employee commenced work. Absence of more than seven (7) days during the probationary period will be added to the period.
8
9.03
9.04
9.05
The Company shall have the right to discharge a probationary employee, with or without just cause, where the company has, in its sole discretion and in good faith, made a determination that the probationary employee is not suitable for continued employment with the Company.
An employee shall lose all seniority and shall be deemed to have quit the employ of the Company for any of the following reasons:
(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
(e)
(f)
voluntarily quits employment with the Company;
is discharged and not reinstated through the grievance procedure;
fails to respond to recall as herein provided;
is absent on leave for more than three (3) months at one time except by agreement of the parties hereto;
fails to return from a leave of absence as herein provided; is not recalled to work within:
(i)	20 months for employees with 20 years or more seniority;
(ii)	18 months for employees with 15 years or more seniority;
(iii)	12 months for employees with from one to 15 years seniority;
(iv)	the period of actual seniority for employees with less than 1 year’s seniority.
takes another job while on leave of absence without having received prior written permission from the Company to do so.
completes his/her entitlement for Weekly Indemnity Benefits as described in Article 18,06, or his/her Workers’ Compensation total temporary disability benefits have ceased, and does not return to work within five working days of such completion, unless he is prevented from so doing for reasonable cause and has notified the Production Manager of such cause within that five (5) working day period.
Lost seniority may be restored in whole or in part by agreement of the parties hereto.
9
9.06
9.07
Lists showing the seniority of all employees under this Agreement shall be prepared and maintained by the Company and shall be open to inspection by the Bargaining and Grievance Committee. New lists shall be made up each year, shall be posted for a minimum of two weeks each year, and the Bargaining and Grievance Committee shall have a copy of each.
(a)	In the event new jobs are created or permanent vacancies occur, the Company will post such new jobs or vacancies for period of five (5) working days before new employees are hired in order to allow employees with seniority in another classification to apply. If no senior employees apply, probationary employees will be considered.
(b)	If no applications are received by 10:00 A.M. on the fifth day following the posting date, the Company may start proceedings to secure applications from outside labour sources.
(c)	In the event that two or more employees with seniority apply for a posted job, the Company shall consider the skills, ability, and physical fitness of the applicants. Seniority shall govern only when two applicants are of equal standing in terms of these criteria, considered on an overall basis.
(d)	It is agreed that successful applicants on the job bidding procedure will not be permitted to re-apply for a period of six (6) months.
(e)	If, in the opinion of the Company, none of the applicants is qualified to perform the open job, then the Company has the right to select any
other employee for the job or may hire from outside after first discussing the matter with the Union. If, in the opinion of the Union, the Company has not considered all of the relevant facts, then the matter may be taken up through the grievance procedure.
(f)	Employees with greater seniority who are unsuccessful in bidding on such jobs under this section shall be advised why they did not qualify.
(g)	(i) A temporary vacancy shall be defmed as the longer of ifirby
(30) working days, or the period of the duration of the absence due to illness or injury of the individual who worked that job previously, or until their termination, or by mutual agreement in writing by the parties hereto.
However, temporary vacancies occurring during the period of posting may be filled by the Company in such manner as it may in its discretion determine.
10
9.08
9.09
1(h)	Only the first vacancy shall be posted. Vacancies arising out of the
original posting will be filled by the Company. However, an employee may apply in writing for the second vacancy created not later than three (3) days after such position becomes vacant and sections c, d, e, f, g, above will apply. If such employee is refused the second vacancy, that employee shall be advised of the reason for the refusal.
(i) If an employee is transferred to another department due to lack of work, that employee may return to their former job before a new employee is hired for that job.
(j) In the event that more than one employee is doing the same job, as a regular assignment, then the senior employee shall not be transferred from that job, provided such employee has equal skill and ability compared to any junior employee doing that same job.
Regular Assignment
For the purposes of this agreement regular assignment(s) shall mean having been assigned to that job or operation on a regular basis for the preceding six (6) months. Temporary transfers and layoffs will not be included in the calculation of the six months.
The Company shall distribute a form once each six months on which employees may make a written request to train on a specificjob. The Company shall provide the employee, as soon as possible, with an opportunity to train on the requested job. The Company in its discretion has the right to terminate the training period, if the employee fails to demonstrate the required skills,
(b)
Success in a training program does not entitle the employee to any rights of job selection, other than provided for in Article 10.01 or
9.07
11
ARTICLE 10 ■ LAYOFF AND RECALL
10.01	When it is necessary to layoff employees, or to recall employees who have been laid off, the employees to be laid off or recalled shall be selected on the basis of seniority providing the senior employee has previously qualified on the job in the plant or can perform the work available satisfactorily without training. In the event that all jobs that require no training are filled by senior employees and further layoffs are required which involve skilled jobs, a senior employee may have only one opportunity to supplant any junior employee, providing such employee is able to attain the required skills of the junior persons's regular assignment within a ten (10) day training period. However, if such employee has twenty (20) years seniority or over, then he/she shall be given a fifteen (15) day training period. As between two employees who are fully competent to perform the work available seniority shall govern the selection. The rate paid for the job chosen by the employee exercising this right to supplant shall be the rate of the job, as listed in Schedule "A" Table 1, subject to the provisions of Article 15.01.
(a)	A notice of layoff issued by the Company shall contain:
' date the Notice is issued - name of the person being laid off
■	date the layoff is to commence
■	whether layoff is temporary (indicate term if known) or permanent
■	the entire text of Article 10.01
(b)	Accompanying the Notice of layoff will be a form entitled "Decision to Supplant" ("BUMP") on which the employee will be able to confirm, in writing, if and when he/she chooses to exercise his/her right to supplant, and to indicate the junior person being supplanted and the relevant regular assignment. This form must be signed and dated by the employee and a steward to be considered complete. The effective date of the decision will be the day the completed form is received by the Company.
(c)	The following jobs are considered skilled jobs and cannot be learned within the training period described in Article 10.01 above. This clause does not apply to employees who are performing, or who have previously performed these jobs.
Sorter - Blue/Crust/Final Operator - Lime/Tan Drum/Colouring - Splitting Finish Mixing
12
Sample Work Licensed Tradesperson
(d)	Notice of recall shall be sent to the employee’s last recorded address and such employee shall have a maximum of five (5) working days in which to report for work. Seniority shall accrue during layoff.
(e)	An employee who has moved from his/her regular assignment as a result of a layoff, will upon recall or availability of work return to his/her regular assignment and rate.
10.02	Each member of the Bargaining and Grievance Committee and Stewards, will be retained in employment without regard to seniority so long as there is work available that they are competent and willing to perform. Such work shall not be higher rated than their regular work except by mutual agreement of the parties hereto. Should an employee cease to be a member of the Bargaining and Grievance Committee or a Steward while layoff is in effect, such employee shall be dealt with under the normal layoff and recall procedures when the next layoff occurs.
10.03	During periods of plant shutdown, when there is a staggered phase-down and phase-up of work, rights as described in Sections 10.01 and 10.02 above will not apply to supplant employees who are working on their regular assignments during these phase-down and phase-up periods. The schedule and duration of a plant shutdown will be posted by the Company, after discussion with the Union. (By way of example: the first department out is the first department back and so on, in sequence.)
10.04	The Union Chairperson or designate shall be present when an employee is advised of layoff pursuant to Article 10.01. If the advice of layoff is provided in writing by mail, the Chairperson shall receive a copy of the advice on the day it is mailed.
The Company shall provide the Union Chairperson or designate with an up-to-date copy of the seniority list which includes the name, seniority, and regular assignment of all employees junior to the person being laid off.
The Company shall provide the Union office with a list of the names of such employees laid off within fifteen (15) working days of the date of layoff.
(a)
(b)
13
10.05
10.06
(a)	If any employee is to be laid off for a period of more than five (5) working days but less than ten (10) working days, and such period is not part of a vacation or shutdown as described in Article 10.03, then that employee shall receive one (1) day written notice of such layoff, or eight (8) hours pay in lieu of such notice.
(b)	If an employee is to be laid off for more than ten (10) working days, and such period is not part of a vacation or shutdown as per Article
10,03	then the following will apply:
Employees with five (5) years or less seniority shall receive two (2) working days written notice of such layoff or pay in lieu of such notice.
Employees with five (5) to twenty (20) years seniority shall receive five (5) working days written notice of such layoff or pay in lieu of such notice.
Employees with more than twenty (20) years seniority shall receive ten (10) working days written notice of such layoff or pay in lieu of such notice.
(c)	If insufficient notice is given as provided above, the employee will be paid eight 8) hours pay, at regular rate, for each day of notice not given.
Permanent layoffs shall be in accordance with the Employment Standards Act.
Notice as described in 10,05 shall not be added to the notice requirements of
the Employment Standards Act.
(i)
(ii)
(iii)
ARTICLE 11 ■ LEAVE OF ABSENCE
11.01	An employee with seniority will be granted a leave of absence without pay upon presentation of a certificate of a physician attesting to illness or other disability which prevents such employee from performing their regular duties. When an employee is able to perform their regular duties such employee shall so advise the Company and shall report for work within seven (7) days of the time such employee is able to perform their regular duties or such employee shall lose all rights under this Agreement.
14
11.02	A female employee who becomes pregnant will be granted a leave of absence in accordance with the terms and conditions set out in the Ontario Women’s Equal Employment Opportunity Act. If she reports for work within two (2) months and seven (7) days from the date of delivery, she shall be returned to her former job or its nearest equivalent available. If she does not so report, she shall lose all rights under this Agreement.
11.03	On request from the Union, leave of absence without pay will be granted for official duties with the Union. Such leaves shall not exceed one (1) week continuous (except in the case of the International Convention) or three (3) weeks accumulative per employee in one (l)year, shall not apply to more than three (3) employees at any one time, and shall not apply to more than two (2) members of the Bargaining and Grievance Committee or the Local Executive at any one time.
11.04	On request from the Union, the Company shall grant leave of absence without pay to an employee for a period not exceeding such employee’s first time of office, but not longer than one year for full-time service with the Union, provided that the number of employees who, at any one time, shall be granted such leave, shall be mutually agreed.
11.05	The Company may grant leave of absence without pay not exceeding three (3) months for reasons other than as set out herein. Such leaves shall not be refused unreasonably if such request is made in writing explaining the need for leave and is submitted a reasonable period prior to the required departure and specifies the date of return. Leave of absence must be approved in writing by the Company.
11.06	Seniority shall accrue during the forgoing leaves of absence.
ARTICLE 12 - HOURS OF WORK
12.01	(a) The standard work week shall consist of forty (40) hours worked on
Monday to Friday inclusive. The standard work day shall be eight (8) hours.
(b)	For employees hired after July 1, 1994, for the Monday to Saturday shift, the work week shall consist of five (5) days, forty (40) hours from Monday to Saturday inclusive. The standard work day shall be eight (8) hours.
12.02	The foregoing constitutes no guarantee by the Company to any employee of a specific number of hours or work, either per day of per week.
15
12.03
12.04
A schedule of the starting and stopping times of each shift, including the times
of break, lunch, and wash-up for each department is listed in Schedule C
herein, based on the following:
(a)	The Company will allow each employee who wishes one break period of ten (10) minutes during each half of a standard work day.
(b)	The lunch period shall be thirty minutes, and shall be unpaid, except for continuous shift workers (i.e. those that work in departments that work continuously for 24 hours) or those working as colour drum operators who shall be entitled to a twenty (20) minute paid lunch period.
(c)	Employees will not be allowed a wash up period before the end of the shift, unless specifically provided for in Schedule "C".
(d)	Employees will not cease to work or leave their departments prior to the times posted by the Company unless otherwise instructed by their Foreperson.
(e)	Employees must be at their work assignments ready to commence work at the times posted by the Company, unless otherwise instructed by their Foreperson.
(f)	No employee will be .allowed to work unauthorized or unpaid overtime in addition to their regular hours.
(g)	Each employee shall punch their own Time Card only. Punching Time Cards other than an employee's own may be cause for dismissal.
The Company agrees that it will not call for a short work week (e.g. 3 day
week, or 4 day week) unless any one of the following occurs:
(a)	a major breakdown of equipment which interrupts production for more than eight (8) hours;
(b)	layoffs have taken place to the point where the Company seniority list contains less than ninety (90) names of actively employed individuals, for a period of five consecutive working days. Actively employed means any employee with seniority who has not been laid off, suspended or is not absent on Workers Compensation or Sickness Benefit or on voluntary leave;
16
after discussion with the Bargaining and Grievance Committee, and by mutual agreement between the Union and the Company.
in case of force majeure
(c)
(d)
In the event that plant wide shutdown of 4 or more consecutive working days is required because of production levels, holidays and vacation period, or plant overhauls, the above clause will not apply during that period.
ARTICLE 13 - OVERTIME
13.01	Work performed other than as set out in Article 12 shall be paid for at one and one-half time the employee's regular rate. However, work performed on Sundays or on holidays listed in Article 16 shall be paid for at twice the employee’s regular rate.
13.02	The Company undertakes to assign overtime work as equitably as circumstances permit among those employees generally performing the work.
13.03	Upon reasonable request, in writing, by the Union, the Company shall provide a list of overtime hours worked by employees.
13.04	In the event that the Company requires an employee to work overtime for a consecutive period of four (4) or more hours without having notified that employee the previous day, the Company will pay that employee a meal allowance of five (5) dollars.
13.05	Mechanical/Process Breakdown
In the event of a mechanical breakdown in the operations of "hide pick-up", "fleshing", "blue pick-up", "wringing" and "blue sorting", or in the event of a process breakdown which directly affects these operations, the daily workload for these operations must nevertheless be completed so as not to cause damage to the leather in process. Employees working in these operations shall be required under such circumstances to work overtime, if requested to do so by the Company, unless the employee has a reasonable explanation as to why he is not able to work the overtime.
17
ARTICLE 14 - SHIFTS
14.01	Unless otherwise arranged, a shift will be considered as worked on the day it commences. A shift commencing before 12:00 noon shall be deemed to be a first shift. A shift commencing after 12:00 noon but before 8:00 P.M. shall be deemed to be a second shift.
A shift commencing after 8:00 P.M. but before 4:00 A.M. shall be deemed to be a third shift. When an employee works on a second shift he shall receive a premium of (.40) per hour. When an employee works on a rotating third shift, he shall receive a premium of fifty (50) cents per hour. When an employee works on a permanent third shift, he shall receive a premium of $1.00 per hour. Such premium shall not be subject to overtime premium.
14.02	Third shift premium will be paid to employees starting the day shift prior to 6:00 A.M. The premium will be paid from the start of the shift until 6:00 A.M. only.
14.03	In the event that the Company requests an employee to temporarily change shift, such employee will be notified of such transfer twenty-four hours prior to the commencement of the shift to which the employee is to be transferred. Failure to provide such notice shall result in the payment at time and one half the employees regular hourly rate for all hours worked on the first day of such transfer.
14.04	As long as there is unanimous agreement among those doing the rotating shift work, a fixed schedule can be established, subject to the approval of the Company.
ARTICLE 15 - WAGES
15.01	Schedule "A", attached to and forming part of this Agreement, sets out the basis of wage administration effective with the signing of this Agreement.
(a)	Any employee who as of May 28, 1994, has been paid at a higher rate than that shown in Schedule A, Table 1 shall be "red circled" for the term of such employee's employment with the Company. These employees are listed in Schedule "A", Table 3. The employee's red circled rate shall terminate if that employee has been laid off for a period of more than six continuous months, even if he subsequently returns to work pursuant to Article 10.01. Any employee, not listed in Table 3, replacing a red circled employee shall continue to receive the Schedule "A" Table 1 rate.
- 18 -
1(b)	The employees listed in Table 3 shall be paid the red circled rate only
when performing the specific job described in Table 3, For any other work the employee will receive the Schedule A, Table 4 rate for the job performed, subject to the provisions of Article 10.01
(c)	Any red circled employee listed in Table 3 who supplants (bumps) a person on the red circled list (Table 3) will receive the Table 4 rate for the job performed. If a red circled employee supplants (bumps) a person not listed on Table 3 he/she will receive the rates as per Schedule "A", Table 1.
15.02	In the event that the Company wishes to introduce a piece work rate, such introduction shall not take place until the Company and the Union have agreed on a set of time study rules to govern the establishment of such piece work rates. If an agreement on such rules cannot be reached, either party may submit the matter of Time Study Rules to Arbitration, pursuant to Article 8.
15.03	Notwithstanding the forgoing, it is recognized that an appreciable change in methods, equipment, material or working conditions will justify an adjustment in hourly or piecework rates, and the degree of such change will be a major factor in determining the extent of such adjustment. To ascertain the extent of such adjustment the job will be evaluated by the job evaluation system described in Schedule D herein.
If any such adjustment is made during the life of the Agreement, the employees affected shall accept the new rates for at least fifteen (15) working days.
If, at the end of such time, any employees affected are dissatisfied, the Steward or Stewards concerned may take the matter up with the appropriate supervisors and, failing prompt satisfaction, the matter may be processed as a grievance as follows:
15.04	Within fifteen (15) working days after the end of the fifteen (15) day period referred to above, the Bargaining and Grievance Committee shall request the Production Manager to arrange a meeting to review the question stating its reasons for disagreement and, within five (5) working days after such meeting, the Company shall deliver its final answer. If the Bargaining and Grievance Committee is not satisfied with the Company's answer, it may, within ten (10) working days from the receipt of such answer, process the matter to arbitration as set out in Article 8 with the added provision that the Arbitrator shall be a person experienced in matters of this kind.
19
15.05
15.06
15.07
15.08
Rate adjustments made as a result of the foregoing procedure shall take effect from the beginning of the first fifteen (15) day period above unless otherwise agreed by the parties or directed by the Arbitrator.
An employee who, for the convenience of the Company, is temporarily transferred to work for which the rate of pay is different from that in effect for such employee's regular work shall be paid, while so employed, as follows:
(a)	If the rate of pay for the work to which the employee is transferred is less than the employee's regular pay, such employee shall receive their own higher rate of pay.
(b)	If the rate of pay for the work to which such employee is transferred is higher than the employee's regular pay, such employee shall receive the higher rate of pay for the work to which such employee is temporarily transferred.
An employee who, for the convenience and benefit of the employee, is temporarily transferred to other work instead of being laid off due to lack of work, breakdown of machinery or other like cause shall be paid, while so employed, as follows:
If the rate of pay for the work to which such employee is transferred is less than the employee's regular pay, such employee shall receive the lower rate paid for the work to which such employee is transferred.
If the rate of pay for the work to which such employee is transferred, is higher than the employee's regular pay, such employee shall receive the higher rate of pay for the work to which such employee is temporarily transferred, provided that the employee displays efficiency, skill or ability equal to that of the employees on the work to which such employee is transferred.
Notwithstanding 15.06 and 15.07 above, an employee shall be paid their regular rate for the balance of the shift on which this temporary transfer takes place.
(a)	Should breakdown, shortage of material or other cause of a temporary
nature make it necessary for an employee to "stand by", such employee may be assigned other work but shall be paid at their regular rate for the remainder of their shift or for a maximum of four (4) hours, whichever shall first occur.
20
15.09	In the event an employee reports for work on their regular shift without previously having been told not to report, such employee shall receive at least four (4) hours' pay at their regular rate, or such employee may be required to perform four (4)hours' work at any job such employee is able to do, except in circumstances beyond the control of the Company, such as breakdown of major machinery, fire and power failure.
15.10	The Company will set the rates for new classifications established during the lifetime of this Agreement provided that, after a trial period of fifteen (15) working days, the rate may be subject to the special grievance procedure as set out above. The existing rate structure shall be a major factor in determining such rates.
15.11	If, as a result of such new classification, an employee would receive a reduction in rate, such employee will have the right to be transferred to any other job in the plant providing such employee has the competence required to perform the job, and further providing that such employee has more seniority than the worker "bumped". The Company shall allow a reasonable training period if such is required. Until such time as the worker is transferred to another job carrying the same rate of pay, such employee shall continue to receive their old rate. Such employee shall exercise their right to be so transferred within four (4) months, after which time such employee shall forfeit such right and shall accept the rate set for the new classification.
15.12	The Union will co-operate in the elimination of waste, inefficient production and poor workmanship.
ARTICLE 16 - HOLIDAYS
(a)	The Company recognizes the following holidays:
New Year's Day Dominion Day Good Friday Labour Day Thanksgiving Day Christmas Day Boxing Day Employee's Birthday Victoria Day Civic Holiday Floater Day
21
16.02	Each of the above holidays shall be observed on the day on which it falls unless otherwise declared by the appropriate government authority. However, for the Employee's Birthday Holiday, if it falls on a normal work day the employee may elect either to take that day at regular rates and receive normal holiday pay in addition thereto.
(a)	Floater Day will be taken at a time mutually agreed to by the Company and the employee.
(b)	The Company also recognizes that for December 24th and December 31st, eight (8) hours will be paid for only if five (5) hours are actually worked on each day.
(c)	The Union recognizes that full co-operation will be required in implementation. For the above listed holidays, section 16.04 below will apply.
16.03	All employees will be paid for the above holidays at their regular hourly rate or eight times their average hourly earnings during the preceding week, as the case may be. In order to qualify for payment an employee must:
have acquired seniority as of the date of the day of observance of the holiday;
work the last scheduled work day prior to and the first scheduled work day after the observance of the holiday, save that an employee through sickness who provides the Company on the day of their return with an explanation of the illness, in writing, from a licensed physician or who has been granted permission by the Production Manager or designate to be absent on one or both of the above mentioned days only. An employee does not qualify for the above holidays if such employee has been laid off for a lack of work more than seven days prior to the observance of the holiday.
16.04	Any employee required by the Company to work on one of the above listed holidays and who does work will be paid the rate of double time for all hours worked, in addition to their holiday pay.
16.05	If, a statutory holiday falls during the employee's claim period for WCB, UIC, or Weekly Indemnity, the Company will pay only the difference between the holiday pay and the benefit payment payable for that day to such employee. In no way shall an employee be able to "pyramid" benefits.
(a)
(b)
22
ARTICLE 17 - VACATIONS
17.01	Each employee with seniority shall have a yearly vacation with pay based on their service as at June 30th of that year, according to the following formula;
(a)	The first and second weeks of vacation shall be in accordance with the Ontario Employment Standards Act or the following, whichever is greater.
(b)	0 to 6 months service - Entitlement 0 weeks 4 % of Gross Earnings.
(c)	6 months to 1 year service - Entitlement 1 week 4 % of Gross Earnings or 40 times Regular Hourly Rate whichever is greater.
(d)	1 year to 4 years service - Entitlement 2 weeks 4 % of Gross Earnings or 80 times Regular Hourly Rate whichever is greater.
(e)	4 years to 13 years service - Entitlement 3 weeks 6% of Gross Earnings or 120 times Regular Hourly Rate whichever is greater.
(f)	13 years to 21 years service - Entitlement 4 weeks 8% of Gross Earnings or 160 times Regular Hourly Rate whichever is greater.
(g)	21 years to 30 years service - Entitlement 5 weeks 10% of Gross Earnings or 200 times Regular Hourly Rate whichever is greater.
(h)	30 years or more service - Entitlement 6 weeks 12% of Gross Earnings or 240 times Regular Hourly Rate whichever is greater.
(i)	After 40 years of service - Entitlement 7 weeks 14% Gross Earnings or 280 times Regular Hourly Rate whichever is greater.
17.02	For the purpose of this clause gross earnings shall mean the gross earnings of an employee from July 1 st the previous year to June 30th of the year in which the vacations apply, including but not restricted to public holiday pay and previous vacation pay. For piece workers, regular hourly rate shall be their average piece work earnings for the one year prior to June 30th.
17.03	Such vacations shall be taken in the calendar year in which they apply, and so as to cause the least possible interference with operations. Vacations must be exercised in the year they are due. Anyone asked by the Company to work during vacation periods shall be entitled to equivalent alternate time off without pay.
23
17.04	If the Company recalls an employee to work from their vacation, such employee shall be paid time and one-half in addition to their vacation pay.
17.05	(a) If an employee works less than 1200 regular hours during the twelve
months preceding June 30, then his/her vacation pay will not be the greater of the calculations described in 17,01 above, but will be calculated as a percentage of his/her gross earnings for the hours actually worked during the twelve months.
(b)	Employees hired after July 1, 1994, must work 1500 regular hours or more during the twelve month period prior to June 30 in order to qualify for vacation pay calculated on the "whichever is greater" basis as described in Article 17.01,
17.06	Vacation pay will be paid on the last working day of each department, during the phase-down for summer shutdown.
17.07	If an employee wishes to take more than three weeks vacation at any one time, then his/her request must be made in writing to the Company by April 1. If two or more employees request the same period, vacation will be assigned by seniority.
ARTICLE 18 - BENEFITS
18.01	The Company shall pay the full premium for full-time eligible employees, commencing the beginning of the month following the month in which that employee acquires seniority, for life insurance, weekly indemnity, major medical, prescription drug, and Ontario Health Insurance plans.
(a) In the event that the Government of Ontario reinstitutes an individual payment system for universal health insurance, such as O.H.I.P was, then the Company shall pay such premium on behalf of each employee.
18.02	It is agreed that any and all premium rebates to employees required by legislation on welfare matters will be applied directly towards the cost of the total welfare coverage.
24
Dental Plan
18.03
The Company agrees to participate in the United Food and Commercial Workers Trusteed Dental Plan and to remit for each Bargaining Unit employee enrolled effective June 1, 1994, nineteen cents (19C) per hour worked, up to a maximum of 40 hours per week, as defined below. February 1, 1995, the hourly remittance shall be increased by two cents (20) per hour.
18.04	Pension Plan
The Company agrees to participate in the Canadian Commercial Workers Industry Pension Plan and remit effective June 1, 1994, twenty-four cents (24C) and an additional two cents (2C) effective February 1, 1995, per hour for each Bargaining Unit employee enrolled for all hours worked, to a maximum of 40 hours per week, as defined below.
18.05	In regard to the Dental Plan and the Pension Plan above:
(a)	The Company will remit the name, address, Social Insurance Number and other data that may be required for proper recording and administration of the plans.
(b)	The Company’s only other administrative responsibility in the above plans is to initially enroll the employees and to give out claim forms. The Company will not be responsible in any way for the management of these funds, or for the payment of any benefits relating to the Dental Plan or Pension Plan.
(c)	Hours worked shall include regular hours, overtime hours, vacation hours, statutory holidays, bereavement pay, or any other paid hours provided for in the Collective Agreement.
(d)	The Company shall remit such monies to the plan trustees by the 23rd of the month following the hours worked.
18.06	The payments under the Weekly Indemnity Plan shall be:
(a)	$300.00 per week
Length of Coverage:
(52) weeks including Unemployment Insurance Coverage 3rd -17th week
25
(b)	For employees hired after July 1, 1994, the payments under the Weekly Indemnity Plan shall be $300.00 per week. Length of coverage is 41 weeks including U.I. coverage 3rd - 17th week.
(c)	After a claim of full duration eligibility is lost for further coverage for a recurrence of the same injury or illness until the employee has returned and worked for a minimum period of sixty (60) working days.
18.07	The Company shall cease to pay all benefit premiums and benefit coverage shall cease:
(a)	for any employee laid off pursuant to Article 10(a), after thirteen (13) weeks from the date of layoff.
(b)	for any employee on leave of absence, after the first day of the month following commencement of leave.
(c)	unless the employee affected by paragraphs (i) and (ii) pays to the Company, in advance, prior to the first day of the month of coverage being purchased, the full monthly premium, as paid by the Company, for coverage or supplementary health care and life insurance benefits only.
18.08	The Company agrees to provide a vision care plan providing a benefit of $100.00 per person, including dependants, in any continuous period of 24 months. This plan will provide $200.00 for contact lenses if they are prescribed because vision cannot be corrected to 20/40 acuity or better with eye glasses, but can be with contact lenses.
ARTICLE 19 - BEREAVEMENT ALLOWANCE
19.01	In the event of death in the immediate family (spouse, father, mother, child,
sister, brother, grandparent or parent-in-law) of an employee with seniority, such employee shall be granted, upon notification, up to three (3) successive regular working days of absence without loss of pay, including the day of the funeral. Payment will be based on the regular scheduled hours of work in the plant up to a maximum of eight (8) hours per day at the employee’s regular day rate.
26
ARTICLE 20 - EMERGENCY GUARANTEE
20.01	If a maintenance employee has clocked out and left the premises, and is recalled to perform emergency work, such employee shall be paid a minimum of four (4) hours at one and one-half times their regular rate. The employee will be allowed to go home when the emergency job is finished and checked over.
ARTICLE 21 - TOOT, ALLOWANCE
21.01	The following employees will be granted a tool allowance of up to $ 130.00 in any one calendar year for the replacement of tools. Payment will be issued promptly upon submission of receipts and a written description of the tools purchased.
D, Campbell	W. Morrison
L, McRae	J. Rounis
E.	Onoufriou
21.02	The employees listed in 21.01 above who are not licensed tradespersons will normally do production work although they may be called upon from time to time, based on their qualifications, to do maintenance or repair work.
ARTICLE 22 - JURY DUTY
22.01	In the event that an employee is precluded from working their regular shift or shifts due to being called for and reporting for jury duty, the Company agrees to make up the difference in pay between the amount received for jury duty and the amount the employee would have received for working their regular shift or shifts. If the employee is not chosen, such employee must report back to work within two (2) hours. On being chosen for jury duty, the employee shall immediately notify the Company.
ARTICLE 23 - SAFETY AND HEALTH
23.01	The Company shall make reasonable provision for the safety and health of the employees during the hours of their employment.
27
23.02	Protective clothing and devices deemed necessary by the Company, and as required by legislation, to protect employees from injuries shall be supplied by the Company.
Such protective clothing and devices must be worn and utilized by the
employee as instructed, at all times, as necessary.
23.03	If the Company introduces a chemical, not previously used, the Joint Safety and Health Committee will determine it’s proper classification within the chemical group listing supplied by I. A.P, A. The Committee will also ensure that the precautions noted under the chemical classifications are adhered to in all respects.
ARTICLE 24 - NOTICES
24.01	The Company agrees that notices concerning Union activities may be posted in the plant on the bulletin board provided by the Company, subject to the following conditions:
(a)	Such notices shall receive the stamped approval of the Company prior to posting.
(b)	No change shall be made in any such notice, either by the Company or by the Union, after it has received the stamped approval of the Company.
(c)	No notice shall be posted except on the bulletin board as provided.
24.02	The Union agrees that it will not distribute or post or cause to be permitted to be distributed or posted on the property of the Company, for or on its behalf, any pamphlets, advertising or political matter, notices or any other kind of literature except with the written permission of the Company.
24.03	All notices and letters sent to the Union shall be addressed to the Full-time Representative, 2200 Argentia Road, Mississauga, Ontario L5N 2K7 with a copy to the chairperson of the Bargaining and Grievance Committee. The Union shall advise the Company of any changes in this address.
24.04	All notices and letters sent to the Company shall be addressed to The President, A. R. Clarke & Co. Limited, 633 Eastern Ave., Toronto, Ontario, M4M 1E5,
28 -
24.05	The Company shall provide the Union, in writing, the names and titles of senior supervisory personnel.
24.06	The Company shall notify the Union Chairperson of any appreciable change of methods, equipment, material or working conditions.
ARTICLE 25 - FOOTWEAR
25.01 The Company will supply CSA approved safety shoes or boots on the basis of one pair per employee per year to be issued on or before December 1. In the case of rubber boots, these will be replaced when necessary, only upon the return of the used pair. New employees will be required to provide their own first pair of safety boots. Such safety footwear must be worn by the employee at all times while at work.
ARTICLE 26 - DURATION OE AGREEMENT
26.01	Unless changed by mutual consent, the terms of this Agreement shall continue in effect until the 31st day of JanuaryA^C ancTshall continue^iutomaticalTy
from year to year thereafter, unless either party notifies the other in writing, not more than one hundred twenty (120) days and not less than thirty (30) days immediately prior to the expiration date, that it desires to amend or terminate the Agreement.
26.02	The parties shall agree upon a date, to begin negotiation, within fifteen (15) days following notification for amendment as provided hereinbefore.
26.03	If, pursuant to such negotiations, an Agreement is not reached on the renewal or amendment of this Agreement, or the making of a new Agreement prior to the current expiry date, this Agreement shall continue in full force and effect until a new Agreement is signed between the parties, or until conciliation proceedings prescribed under the Ontario Labour Relations Act have been completed, whichever date should first occur.
29
Signed this	day of <7	_ 1994.
Masood Khan Nick Kolevski
30
SCHEDULE ”A”
WAGE ADMINISTRATION
Hourly Rate
The basic hourly structure is shown in Table 1. These rates are effective July 1st, 1994, for all employees hired after that date. Employees receiving rates higher than those shown for their work are listed in Table 3 and will continue to receive the higher rates listed in Table 4 subject to Article 15.
Piece Work
The Company will make changes to piece work rates by application of Article 15.03. As of signing of Agreement there are no piece work rates in plant.
Starting Rates
Starting rates shall be adjusted as follows:
-	Start date to six months - 20% less than Table 1, job rate
-	Six to twelve months - 15 % less than Table 1, job rate
-	twelve to eighteen months - 10% less than Table 1, job rate Rates shall be calculated to the nearest cent.
Pay Equity
The Company has purchased the "Neutralizer" plan and has, with the Union, established a Pay Equity Committee, which has initiated a Pay Equity Program.
Job Reclassification
The names of all employees whose rate of pay for his/her regular assignment is negatively impacted by the reclassification of Schedule "A”, Table 1 rates will be added to the list of red-circled jobs contained in Schedule "A", Table 3 (ie. "red-circled rates").
The employee shall have thirty (30) days from May 28, 1994, to review the list to ensure that their name, regular assignment, and rate of pay are listed correctly, and to advise the Union and/or company of any errors or omissions.
The Union shall have sixty (60) days from May 28, 1994, to review the list of Table 1 job classifications in order to identify any errors or omissions, and to assess the classifications, one relative to the other. Jobs may be reclassified with the mutual consent of the Company and the Union.
31
Upon the completion of the Sixty (60) day period, the Company and Union will meet to discuss any errors or omissions, of which they have been advised, in order to make the necessary changes to confirm Tables 1 and 3,
32
SCHEDULE "A" - TABLE 1 EFFECTIVE JULY 1. 1994
Rate is based full 8 hours of work per shift on that job. Employees training on any job will receive level 1 scale.
NEW RATE
LEVEL 1-	$11.25
Feeding, Take Off, and Operators of all Finishing Equipment:
Spray
RCM
Ironing
DRM
Measuring
Oiling
Brushing Machine Stick Kiln or Kiln
LEVEL 2-	$12.24
Side Measuring - Take off
Box Brusher
staking
Toggling
Spot and Buffing
Setting Out
Feeder/LTD Drier
Feeder/Split Conveyor
LEVEL 3-	$13.36
Forklift or Electric Truck Operator Hide House Operator Grease Operator Wringers
Plating
Embossing
Split Bundling - two persons Crust and Blue Trimmers Unbundling Hand Brushing Staking Helper Tradesman's Helper
Any Dry End Work, not otherwise specified.
Baler
Vacuum Dryer Side Bundling - one person Wringer - Take Off Splitter - Take Off
Any Wet End Work, not otherwise specified.
Side and Split Buffers
Blue Split conveyor Trimmer and Sorter
Shavers
Hide Trimmer
Crust Sorter
33
LEVEL 4 -	$14.03	
Sample Work Final Sorters Beam House Operator Class A Finish Mixer		Lime Pulling Blue or Colour Pickup Hide Hooking Fleshing
LEVEL 5 -	$14.68	
Tan Drum Operator Colour Drum Operator		Blue Sorter - one person Splitter Operator
MAINTENANCE
Licensed Tradesperson with:
- Trade School Certificate (or 120 hours	
or more of instruction)*	$15.08
- 2 licenses	$17.08
- 3 or more licenses	$19.08
MISCELLANEOUS -	$10.00
Watchman	Painting
Janitorial	Yard Work
34
SCHEDULE "A" - TABLE 2
(a)	A lump sum payment of $750,00, subject to appropriate deductions, will be paid by separate cheque, with the first paycheque after May 28, 1994, to each employee who has acquired seniority by the payment date.
A second lump sum payment of $750.00, subject to appropriate deductions, shall be paid by separate cheque, on February 1, 1995 to each active employee.
(b)	The Company agrees to contribute two cents (20) per hour, for all hours worked by bargaining unit employees, to the "United Food & Commercial Workers Education and Training Fund". In determining hours worked and date of remittance the terms set out herein before in Article 18, (c) and (e) shall apply.
The remittance shall be made payable to "U.F.C. W. Local 175, Education and Training Fund" and shall be mailed to the Local Union Secretary-Treasurer at the address set out herein before in Article 24 as may be amended from time to time.
(c)	The Company agrees to pay 50% of cost of printing the new Collective Agreement.
35
70
271
944
92
598
433
98
157
420
96
93
41
91
611
150
831
67
318
64
48
355
169
10
61
124
553
066
579
613
431
300
556
575
382
398
201
248
SCHEDULE "A" - TABLE 3 RED CIRCLED RATES
RED CIRCLED RATE
EMPLOYEE NAME JOB DESCRIPTION PRIOR TO MAY 28. 1994
& REGULAR
ASSIGNMENT
William Arming Zaim Asimofski Ha Chay Bach Adolfo Cabral Donald Campbell Joe Chodelka Joseph Ellul Chris Evangelou Tom Fragos Risto Gagovski Giuseppe Gregorino Vasilkj Hladun Risto Karlovski Stanley Kuliczkowski Dennis Lee Carlisle Maynard Wayne Morrison Elias Onoufriou Nicola Parente Domenico Ravaglia Panagiotis Sapanidis Vincenzo Savino Andrija Vezilj Ricardo Capoena Sain Germano Pegios Jean Grosso Vincenzo Warriner Alex Rounis John Kaminski Lucien Gagovski Mitre Bourque Jean Boussoulas Tony Kocur Flossie
Ivancic Vera Draganidis Sideris Markos Ilias
Bundling
Presort/Lead Hand Shaver
Wringer Crew
Mechanic
Plating
Receiver
Shaver
Plating
Wringer Crew
Split Feeder
Splitting Maintenance
RCM Op
Setting
Setting
Lime Puller
Electrician
Mechanic
Truck Op.
Splitter Season Op Head Setter Flesher
Split Conveyor Sorter Finish Feed/Take Off Finish Feed/Take Off Frk/Electric Trk Op Vacuum Dryer LIC TRD - 3/3+ LIC Plating
Vaccum Dryer Measuring Equip Vacuum Dryer Spray
Spray
Grain Buffer Toggling
$15.50
$14.88
$14.50
$14.62
$16.08
$13.78
$18.65
$15.85
$13.78
$14.62
$15.59
$16.75
$13.74
$14.74
$14.74
$18.25
$17.08
$16.13
$15.25
$16.48
$14.18
$14.20
$17.25
$14.01
36
551
546
597
058
135
293
316
212
122
294
306
319
006
323
148
304
123
121
740
799
812
824
841
936
001
067
999
500
007
Oil
920
922
923
925
928
951
929
954
957
958
EMPLOY ME JOB DESCRIPTION
Spasevski Nikola Saveski Ivanka Asimofski Barija McRae Leonard Veli Zarif Kiru Vasilis Dutcher Milton Kouimizis Stellios Wu Yuen Loon De Stefano Pasquale Raja Akram Fong Chi-Lo Li Mou Hsiang Relic Bozo Khan Masood Monti Lorenzo Kolevski Nikolce Li Kuo Wei Chung Li Chuan Melencivc Octavian Raja Abbas Pimenta Manuel Estes Anastasios Raja Mohammed Ngan Foo Hoang The Hung Morrison Wayne Purba Gurmail S,
Ku Chih Hsin Truong A-Duong Liao Ko Hugh Khai See So Kwok Kuen Momodou Nyan Suwareh Saikou Chu Wan Sheung Sillar Sainey Duffet Albert Yeh Eugene Huang Ying Sheng Rasja Naeem
Vacuum Dryer Final Sorter Final Sorter LIC TRD - 2 LICS Baler
Vacuum Dryer Toggling Vacuum Dryer Grain Buffer Colour Drum Oper CL A Finish Mixer Vaccuum Dryer Colour Drum Oper Lime Pulling Tan Drum Oper Vacuum Dryer Beam House Oper Tan Drum Oper Grain Buffer
RCM
Beam House Oper Setting Out Tan Drum Oper
Blue Sorter
Plating
Electrician
Hide House Oper
Shaver
Grain Buffer
staking
staking
RCM
Hide Fleshing
Finish Feed/Take Off
Finish Feed/Take Off
Blue & Colour Pick Up
Shaver
Spray
staking
Grain Buffer
RED CIRCLED RATE
PRIOR TO MAY 28. 1994
37
961
962
963
966
968
657
970
627
628
631
629
635
636
638
651
656
649
662
663
664
666
667
668
674
639
671
EMPLOYEE NAME
Chen Kuo An Wood Jeffrey Hau Due Tu Kostovski Krste Stanojcic Slobodan Stavreski Naumce Tam Lam Hamad Fatmeh Change Chih Liang Maksimovic Dejan Myjak Peter McGregor Leeland Chen Huai-Chang Saveska Marica Plummer Patrick Miclat V. Antonio Kamara Karim Li Tzu Hsiung Miclat M. Dominic Chiu Kuo Hsiang Miclat M. Viressa Kolevski Bogdanka Zhong Dai Ling Ma Vinh Lue Rickardo Fleishman Gregory
JOB DESCRIPTION
Colour Drum Oper Forklift/Elec Trk Oper Setting Out Setting Out Setting Out Hide Fleshing Hide Hooking Measuring Equip Vacuum Dryer RCM
Blue & Colour Pick Up Beam House Oper Finish Feed/Take Off Final Sorter Vacuum Dryer Plating Hide Hooking RCM
Hide Hooking Plating Bundling Crust Trimmer Spray
Sample Worker Feeder/LTD Dryer Finish Feed/Take Off
RED CIRCLED RATE
PRIOR TO MAY 28. 1994
38
SCHEDULE "A" - TABLE 4 (RED CIRCLED RATE CATEGORIES) EFFECTIVE FROM JUNE 5, 1994
Rate
Watchmen	$12.29
LEVEL A" - $13.47
All light Dry End duties including:
Feeding and Take Off of all Finishing,
Spray
RCM
Ironing
DRM
Measuring Equipment
Bundling
Gauging
Split Trimmers Blue/Crust
Sample Work
Spray and RCM Operators
Oiling Operators
LEVEL "B" - $13.74
Brushing Machine Feed and Take Off;
Box Brusher staking Stick Kiln Toggling
Spot and Back Buffing Plating Setting Out Feeder/LTD Drier Feeder/Split Conveyor
39
TE VET; "C" • $13.96
Fork Lift or Electric Truck Operator Hide House Operator Grease Operator Baler
Embossing Machine Feeders Vacuum Dryer Operators Wringers
Grain Buffers
Blue Split Conveyor Trimmer and Sorter
LEVEL "D" - $14.18
Final Sorters Shavers
Embossing Machine Operator
Beam House Operator
Class A Finish Mixer
LEVEL "E" ■ $14,68
Tan Drum Operators
Colour Drum Operators
Whole Hide Fleshing Hide Hooking
Lime Pulling
Blue and Colour Pick Up
Blue Sorter
Splitter
Maintenance
Unlicensed Tradesperson	$14.23
40
Licensed Tradesperson with:
-	Trade School Certificate
or 120 hours or more of instruction
-	2 licenses
-	3 or more licenses
New jobs will be added to the correct level.
41
$15.93
$17.08
$19.08
SCHEDULE "B"
The following staff are covered by Article 2.02, and are permitted to perform the work described below, based on the maximum hours per day,
3 hrs
3 hrs
3 hrs
3 hrs
8 hrs
8 hrs
8 hrs 2 hrs 8 hrs 8 hrs
Kalco Kalcovski:
checking leather, slot test; trimming, moving of skids, splitting, and shaving; and general maintenance, plant improvements and cleaning.
Otto Beussow:
moving tables of leather with electric truck; moving wet leather/horses to and from drying areas, checking, sorting and trimming leather; sample drying, testing machinery & process, start/stop machinery, fork lift operator.
Bobby Patel:
moving leather with electric truck; may operate, feed, or take off from any finishing equipment; colour mixer and matcher.
Richard Dziemianko:
move leather with electric truck, colour mixing. May operate, feed, or take off from any finishing equipment.
Louis Cabral:
sample finishing, colour mixing, may operate, feed, or take off from any finishing equipment.
Simmie Wong:
colour matching, sample spraying, lab testing, may operate any finishing equipment.
Therold Lue:
maintenance or repairs of any nature.
Harvey Wood:
forklift driving; shipping and receiving; maintenance and repairs of any nature. Charles Behiok:
dye matching, colour drum operating.
Tommy Skarjak:
dye matching, colour drum operating.
42
8 hrs.	German Alabaszowski:
watchman, 4 hours: any type of production work.
3 hrs.	Paul Novisedlak:
Moving tables of leather with electric truck; move wet leather/horses to and from drying areas; checking, sorting and trimming leather; sample drying, testing machinery and process; start/stop machinery; fork lift operator.
1.	The parties agree that the staff may perform bargaining unit work for the purpose of a) instruction, b) introduction and/or testing of new procedures or equipment, c) in the case of an emergency, or d) when no bargaining unit employee is available who has the skills required for the job.
2.	Staff will be permitted to do bargaining unit work other than described above by mutual consent of the Union and Company, both parties acting reasonably.
43
SCHEDULE "C" HOURS OF WORK
DEPARTMENT
SHUT 1ST	2ND WASH
BEGINS BREAK LUNCH BREAK UP
FINISHING
PLATING
PASTING & VACUUM DRYING TOGGLING & STAKING BUFFING (day)
FINAL SORT BLUE SORT SPLITTING/SHAVING BELT TRIMMING FLESHING CREW LIME OPERATORS PICK-UP (5)
PASTING & VACUUM (afternoon) PASTING (single shift)
PLATING (afternoon)
BUFFING (afternoon)
FINISHING (afternoon)
BUFFING (midnight)
LIME PULLERS TANNERY FORKLIFT WRINGER CREW TANNERY OPERATORS COLOUR OPERATORS LOAD PREPARATION SETTING MAINTENANCE
7:00	915
7:00	915
7:00	915
7:00	9:15
11:30	2:00
3:30	5:15
2:00	■ 4:30
3:20	5:30
3:20	5:30
3:10.	5:00
separate schedule 1:30	3:30
4:00	6:00
4:00	6:00
24 hr. schedule separate schedule 7:00	9:15
6:00	9:00
7:00	10:00
11:30	2:00
11:30	2:00
12:00	2:00
12:00	2:00
4:00	6:00
730	10:00
6:30	8:30
7:30	10:00
7:30	10:00
7:30	10:00
6:00	8:00
9:00	10:00
9:00	11:00
12:00	2:00
12:00	2:00
12:00	2:20
3:20
3:20
3:15
3:15
7:45
11:45
10:15
11:40
11:40
11:20
9:45
12:15
12:15
3:20
2:15
3:20
1.	The times listed above relate specifically to Article 12.01 and 12.03.
2.	This schedule is subject to reasonable change by mutual agreement.
3.	Employees doing individual jobs within a department may be asked to work different schedules from those listed above, subject to mutual agreement.
44
4.	The start of breaks and lunch may be postponed, at the foreperson’s discretion, if the continuation of operations is necessary to complete a given pack to ensure quality consistency.
5.	Pick-up shift is adjusted daily to meet the tan drum schedule.
6.	No split shifts will be assigned, unless mutually agreed.
45
SCHEDULE"D" PAY EQUITY
The parties hereto agree that once the Pay Equity Plan is in place, under the Pay Equity Act of Ontario, the resultant Benchmark Job points and job questionnaires will be a basis for future re-evaluation of the jobs using the NEUTRALIZER Evaluation Plan.
All new bargaining unit jobs created by the Company will be evaluated using the NEUTRALIZER.
Any disputes arising as a result of such Post Pay Equity evaluations or reevaluations which are not settled by the grievance procedure will be submitted to Arbitration as provided herein before.
46