Effective Date:	February 1, 1996
Expiry Date:	Januaiy 31, 1998
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
Between
A. R. CLARKE LIMITED Toronto, Ontario (hereinafter called the "Company*')
and
Local 175
UNITED FOOD & COMMERCIAL WORKERS' UNION CLC, AFL-CIO (hereinafter called the "Union")
1
Name.... Address
Phone.........
Soc. Ins. No.... Work Address. Work Phone.... Union Steward Phone..........
United Food & Commercial Workers U.F.C.W. Locals 175 and 633 2200 Argentia Road Mississauga, Ontario L5N 2K7 Phone: (905) 821-8329
Toil-free outside Metro Toronto 1-800-565*8329 Fax (905)821-7144
1 -
LETTER FROM THE PRESIDENT U.F.C.W.
LOCAL 175
Dear Fellow Members:
I wish to welcome new membersto Locals 175 and 633 of the United Food and Commercial Workers Union, and to thank long standing membersfortheircontinued support and assistance over the years.
New or seasoned, I hope you will all read this contract and become aware of your rights and privileges as union members. It is an important document. Itidentifies and guarantees your income, benefits and job security while you work for your current employer. Like an insurance policy, a warranty for a new car, or the deed to your home, it is an agreement you accepted when you took the job. If you are not aware of the agreement you entered into, like any other, it is of little value to you personally.
As a union member with a contract, you have the freedom to plan for the future. You will know what your income will be two years in advance. Your rights and benefits are written down and cannot be revoked, and your job security is a primary element. Non-union workers do not have this prote'ction. Their wages and benefits may be cut at any time, as may their jobs.
Be aware of your contract. If unsure about an item or if you think your concern is not covered, speak to your Union Steward. He or she is a co-workertrained by the Union to help you with concerns and grievances in the workplace. If the problem cannot be settled by the Steward, a full-time Union Representative can be contacted at any time to assist you.
We work as your full-time representatives and advisors.
In addition to Stewards in the workplace and Union Representatives who support them, we also have a team of professionals who provide support.
Wfe should all be proud of our Union’s achievements. Wfe have proven many times that employers can treat their workers fairly and still run their business efficiently and profitably.
In the United Food and Commercial Workers’ Union, we are committed to job security in an ever changing social environment. Only your Union can be relied upon to protect your rights.
Your Union offers you representation before the Workers’ Compensation Board. If you are injured on the job, our trained staff will support you and help you in any way they can.
Non-Union workers are at the mercy of their employer. This b one reason our Local Union continues to grow.
Our organizing team works around the clock to help bring other workers under the union umbrella. If you know of someone who works in a non-union environment, do them a favour and give our organizers a call.
V\fe also believe in the education of our members and their children. Lack of economic resources should not be a hindrance to further education. In this regard, the UFCW offers a number of scholarships at the local, national and international level. They are for your benefit as Union members. Use them.
In addition, your Union works to keep you up-to-date about legislation concerning Sunday work, pay equity, UIC and pensions, to name a few.
Your Local Union represents some 40,000 members across Ontario. As we continue to grow, we have moved to keep up with the growth in areas of servicing and all-round members’ support. Included in this booklet is a list of Union representatives and other professionals there to support you, the member.
Only by all of us working together can we keep what we have gained overyears of hard negotiations and obtain what is right-
fully ours in the future. Our labour may be the only commodity we have to sell. Let us not sell it cheaply.
Please feel free to contact me at any time with questions or concerns about the Union. This is your Union. You put the 'U' in our Union. ■
In Solidarity,
Michael J. Fraser, President,
U.F.C.W. Local 175.
UNITED FOOD& COMMERCIAL WORKERS
The United Food and Commercial Workers is one (/the largest, most powerful and respected unions in North America. You are one of 170,000 members in Canada and 1,300,000 members in North America.
The UFCW is the result of a merger between two of the oldest and most respected unions in North America; the Amalgamated Meat Cutters and Butcher Workmen of North America and the Retail Clerks InternationalUnion. This mergertook place on June 6,1979. The new union represents workers in nearly all aspects cf Canadian life and is mirrored in the makeup of Locals 175 and 633.
U.F.C.W. LOCALS 175 AND 633
Your local unions, with over 40,000 members, is the largest UFCW local union, and the largest local union of any union in Canada. Your local is larger than the majority of unions in North America.
This Local has the expertise, financial stability and resources to provide you, the member, with the best negotiating team, the best legal assistance, and the best all around service of any union in the country.
U.F.C.W. LOCALS 175 and 633 EXECUTIVE BOARD LOCAL 175 EXECUTIVE BOARD:
PRESIDENT
Michael J. Fraser, Mississauga
SECRETARY-TREASURER
Wayne Hanley, Oakville
RECORDER
Betty Pardy, London
VICE-PRESIDENTS
RickAlagierski, Mississauga Jim Andress, Cobourg Toni Armstrong, Orillia Barry Baily, Nepean Larry Bain, Utopia Michael Brennan, Scarborough John Brodhagen, Chesley Lillian Courtnage. Brantford Diana Crago, Thunder Bay Guy Diana, Thunder Bay Hyacinth East; Hamilton Jacques Facette, Orleans David Fox, Napanee Sheila Grant, Cannifton Sylvia Groom, Dundas Wayne Harbin, Guelph Ron Hughes, Stevensville Margaret Hynes, Orleans Tim Kelly, Stratford Masood Khan, Scarborough Cliff Kostyniuk, St. Catharines Marie Lamont, London Marilyn Lang, Brighton Angus Locke, Kitchener Robert Magee, London
Julie Marentette, Belle River Ron McBurney, Port Hope Ken McCarvil, Nepean Irene Menzie, Belleville Jim Montgomery, Welland Gerald Morris, Thunder Bay Pat Newell, Port Hope Philip Palahnuk, Waterford Frank Palmer, Hamilton Helen Parks; Kitchener Carol Partridge, London Anna Pychel, Niagara Falls Tyler Reinson, Fort Frances Ron Roy, Mississauga Scott Saunders, Barrie Chris Scott. Cambridge Sharon Scribilo, Keewatin Ron Springall, Kitchener Catherine Tweedie, Hamilton Carol Van Helvoort, Toronto Maxine Wheeler, Huntsville Margaret White, Trenton Thomas Williams, Baltimore David Yates, Trenton Wendy Zych, Kanata
LOCAL 633 EXECUTIVE BOARD
PRESIDENT	VICE-PRESIDENTS:
Floyd Gutcher, Thoroid	Dan Bondyi Amherstburg
SECRETARY-TREASURER	James Hobbs, Barrie
Karl Goennemann, St. Catharines Patricia Bain, Willowdale
RECORDER
Bernice Dow, Downsview
What You Get For Your Union Dues
Higher than average wages and benefits. According to recent government statistics, unionized workers make, on average, 38% more in wages and benefitsthan non-union workers in the same industries. This fact alone makes your union dues an outstanding investment in your future.
Job Security. Your Union will not let you be fired or disciplined without just cause, and it is up to management to prove just cause. Every year the Union spends tens of thousands of dollars in grievance and arbitration expenses just to protectyour rights. If you are unjustly discharged, your Union will spare no expense in getting you backto work. Does a non-union worker have that kind of security?
Grievance Procedure. Even the smallest contract rights are vitally important to your Union. Did you deserve a promotion and not get it? Are non-bargaining unit people doingyourwork? Were your bumping rights ignored? Is your sick pay late in coming? Have you been unfairly disciplined for a very minor mistake? The Grievance Procedure allows the Union to go to bat for you. In a non-union workplace you have no rights except what management chooses to allow you.
Problems with Workers’ Compensation or UIC? The Union employs experts in cutting red tape and representing you to government agencies. These services are free to you, should you ever need them. Non-union workers are usually in the dark and out in the cold in these matters. They can only turn to expensive lawyers for help.
Pensions, Dental Insurance, Sick Pay, Disability Insurance, etc. Compare your benefits package with those of non-union friends and family. Should they be unable to work because of sickness or accident, would they trade their insurance protection for yours? You bet they would!
Add up what you paid in Union Dues last year (don’t forget that they are tax-deductible). Compare that amount with what you spent on such things as hobbies, cigarettes, beer, movies, cable television or “impulse11 gifts.
OFFICERS
Michael J. Fraser
President
Betty Pardy Recorder.
Wayne Hanley
Secretary-Treasurer
Ron Springall
Executive Assistant
As the elected officers of Local 175, it is our job to ensure the smooth running and day-to-day operations, of your Local Union. V\fe represent some 40,000 members across Ontario, of whom some 25,000 are retail workers. Others work in a wide variety of units, including nursing homes, funeral homes, hotels, processing plants, and manufacturing plants. This requires versatility, knowledge and tireless effort. To accomplish this job, we must be supported by a staff equally knowledgeable in their field of expertise. These include your Union Steward, Union Representatives, Benefits Representatives, a staff lawyer and communications. If we are not available or cannot answer a given question, we have the resources to find out. Remember, we are here to serve you.
WHAT IS A UNION STEWARD?
A Union Steward is an elected front-line representative cf the United Food and Commercial Workers. It is his or her duty to give you advice on your rights and to represent you to management in the first stage of the grievance procedure.
Bring any suspected violation cf this agreement to the attention of the Union Steward as soon as possible, because time limits may be important in winning your grievance. A
Union Steward cannot work miracles and solve your problem on the spot, but he or she will either give you an answer or find out the answer to your problem by contacting the Union Representative.
Union Stewards are all volunteers. They receive no pay for their important work and have a lot of responsibility. Treat them with consideration, as you would any friend who tries to assist you.
Never ask your Union Steward to look into a violation cf your contract rights unless you are willing to file a grievance if necessary. Their time is as important as yours. Your Steward can assist you in winning your rights under this collective agreement, but only if you are willing to see it through.
Despite the trouble involved in the job, being a Union Steward can be a rewarding and educational experience. Ifyou’re not afraid to ask that your legal contract rights be respected by management and if you also enjoy helping people, talk to your Union Representative. You might make a good Union Steward.
UNION SCHOLARSHIPS FOR HIGHER EDUCATION
Unions believe that colleges and universities should be open to all qualified students, regardless of their income. Education at all levels is a social investment in the future which yields the greatest returns.
Scholarships can help. The United Food and Commercial Workers Union have three scholarship programs available to all members and their children. The International Union annually awards $80,000 to 22 applicants across North America. These are the James A Suffridge Fund and the EarlW. Jimerson Scholarship.
UFCW Canada also awards a number of William J. Beggs, Fred Dowling and Romeo Mathieu Scholarships every year to Canadian members and their children. These grants are worth $500 each.
UFCW Locals 175 and 633 award 25 Mattie McKay-Pat Thompson Scholarships worth up to a maximum of $750 each.
Local members have been frequent scholarship winners in the past and it is hoped that this good fortune will continue. In order to compete, applications must be sent in well ahead of time.
Applications for the UFCW International Union Scholarships must be submitted by December31 of the year before you plan to enter a post secondary institution.
For the Beggs, Dowling, Mathieu Scholarships, you must apply before September of the year you first enter college or university.
The deadline for the Mattie McKay-Pat Thompson Scholarship is August 1 of the year you plan to enter post secondary education.
There are a limited number of scholarships available, so everyone who needs and deserves one cannot always receive one. However, you will never get one unlessyou apply. Call or write the UFCW, Locals 175 and 633, Education Committee for details.
Good Luck!
THE OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH & SAFETY ACT
Most work-related disabilities can be avoided if both management and workers live up to their responsibilities under Ontario’s Occupational Health and Safety Act. Here is a quick guide to the Act. For details, refer to the Act itself, which is found in the small green book which must be posted in every workplace.
Employer’s Duties
Among other things, the employer must:
•	Provide information, instruction and training so that the employee can work in a safe manner.
•	Acquaint the worker with any workplace hazard.
•	Appoint a competent person as supervisor.
•	Co-operate with and assist the health and safety committee and representative.
•	Take every precaution reasonable for the protection of the worker. Supervisor’s Duties
In stores, the Supervisor is normally the Store Manager. He must:
•	Ensure that the worker works in a safe manner and uses all
the equipment, protective devices or clothing that is required.
•	Advise a worker of any potential or actual danger to health and safety.
•	Provide written safety instructions, where required.
•	Be familiar with the Act and regulations.
Note: Department Heads in the bargaining unit must also ensure that workers work in a safe manner, as above, but they cannot discipline workers who refuse, for example, to wear safety equipment If a meat manager is unable to convince a fellow worker to wear a mesh apron when he is required to do so, he should simply report the situation to the Store Manager.
Workers’ Obligations
•	Use all safety equipment and wear all protective clothing required by the employer.
•	Report any potentially unsafe condition or defect in safety equipment to your Supervisor.
•	Obey the Health and Safety law and all regulations and report any violations of the law or regulations to your Supervisor.
Workers may not:
. Remove or turn off any safety device.
•	Use any equipment or work in a manner which may endanger yourself or another worker.
•	Engage in horseplay of any kind.
The Right to Refuse Unsafe Work
If you encounter an unsafe condition at work, your first obligation is to report it to your Supervisor. Once you have done that, you may refuse to work at a job or task where you have reason to believe that:
. Any machine or equipment you are supposed to use is likely
to endanger yourself or another worker, or
•	The condition of the workplace itself is hazardous.
You must promptly notify your Supervisor of your refusal. He must then investigate the matter in your presence and that of a health and safety representative of the workers (normally the Steward or a member of the Health & Safety Committee). If the Supervisor orders you back to work and you are still not satisfied that the job is safe, you may continueto refusetowork, provided you have reasonable grounds to believe the condition still constitutes a hazard.
At this point, the Inspector from the Ministry of Labour must be called in. While you are waiting for him, the Supervisor can request that someone else perform the job provided that he is informed that the job was refused and the reasons for the refusal. This second worker also has the same right to refuse. The refusing worker may be assigned reasonable alternative work, subject to the Collective Agreement.
The decision of the Inspector is final. Although his order may be appealed, you must return to the job if he so orders, pending the outcome of such appeal.
WORKERS’ COMPENSATION
The Workers' Compensation Board (WCB) insurance program protects workers against loss of income due to job-related disabilities. Here are answers to the most commonly asked questions about WCB benefits:
What do I do f I have an accident at work? All accidents, even minor ones, must be reported to management immediately. Ifthe accident is serious enough to leave work, you must seek medical attention as soon as possible. Accidents which only require a short recovery period or simple first aid must be recorded in the first aid book, which every workplace is required by law to have.
What forms must be filled oui io receive compensation? Two
forms are essential in order to receive WCB benefits. First, the yellow “Employer's Report of Accident or Industrial Diseases” must be filled out by management if, and only if:
(a)	You consult a doctor about your work-related disability, and/or
(b)	You lose work time beyond the day of the accident.
Please note that you do not have to actually losetime from work in orderfo initiateaWCB claim. Even ifyou consultadoctorand are sent back to work the next day, your employer must file their report. This is known as a "No Lost Time” claim.
The second form is a form called “Doctor's First Report”. There should be a supply of these at your workplace and most doctors and hospitals will have them as well. This isfilled out by your doctor at the time of your first visit for your disability. The doctor sends this form directly to the WCB.
What are WCB benefits worth? Once your claim is allowed, you will receive 90% of your net pre-accident earnings. WCB benefitsare non-taxable. Maximum insurable earnings are 175% of the average industrial wage. This is re-calculated every year based on stats publicized by Statistics Canada. WCB cheques are sent every two weeks. A normal accident claim will take from four to six weeks to process before you begin receiving benefits, assuming that the two important forms are submitted right away.
How long do WCB benefitslast? Most people who have workplace accidents are back to work within six weeks. Serious injuries ran take months or even years to recoverfrom. For between one year and eighteen months if you are judged to be totally disabled and the disability is consideredtemporary, the WCB will continueto pay benefits. After that, a wage loss system will begin. Ifyou are permanently injured, the WCB ran award you a very small permanent pension for the pain and suf-
fering caused by the injury and some wage loss compensation.
Ifyou are injured after January 2,1990, you have a right to re employment after the injury. This right lasts for two years. Even if you have permanent limitations on your ability to work, you still have the rightto return to work. There are four steps in this process.
1.	Ifyou can do your old job without any restrictions,your employer has to offer itto you.
2.	ifyou could do your old job ifitwere modified, then that hasto be done.
3.	Ifyou can’t do your old job even if it were changed, then your employer has to offer you another job.
4.	Ifyou can do another job if it were modified, then your employer is required to do titis.
What it I have a health problem that is caused by my ^ job hut I didn’t have an accident at work? Back problems, tendonitis, carpal tunnel syndrome, fibromyalgia, Ring & Bag syndrome, etc, are just a few of the work-related disabilities suffered by UFCW members. Ifyou feelyou may be inthe non-accidental work-related disability category, first consultyour doctor. If he or she agrees that your problem is or is likely to have been caused by yourjob, a Doctor’s First Report should be submitted right away. Inform your employer of your doctor’s opinion and ask that the Employer’s Report of Accident or Industrial Disease be submitted. Your employer cannot refuse to fill out this form. Only the WCB can decide whether or notyou have a legitimate claim.
What happens if my claim is turned down by the WCB? You can appeal an adverse decision by the WCB. The Union will assistyou and representyou, without charge. Do not consult a lawyer, since their services are not free. The Union employs WCB experts to help you.
Wouldn't i be better off claiming sick pay? In most cases, NO. However, if you have a non-accidental disability which requires you to take time off from work, consult the Union for advice.
Does the WCB cover part-timers? Yes. The same rules and benefits apply, regardless cf the number of hours you work per week What i f my benefitsare late or are cut off for same reason? Con-tactthe Union office without delay. All WCB enquiries are treated inthe strictest confidence.
Remember Never let management talk you oui of filing a WCB claim. You may regret it later, when your disability wont go away. It is illegal for management to interfere with your rightto make a WCB claim. F you have any problems or concerns, contact the Union office.
INDEX OF CONTENTS
ARTICLES
ARTICLE 1 ARTICLE 2 ARTICLE 3
ARTICLE 4 ARTICLE 5 ARTICLE 6 ARTICLE 7 ARTICLE 8 ARTICLE 9 ARTICLE 10 ARTICLE 11 ARTICLE 12 ARTICLE 13 ARTICLE 14 ARTICLE 15 ARTICLE 16 ARTICLE 17 ARTICLE 18 ARTICLE 19 ARTICLE 20 ARTICLE 21 ARTICLE 22 ARTICLE 23 ARTICLE 24 ARTICLE 25 ARTICLE 26 SCHEDULE "A" SCHEDULE "A" SCHEDULE "A" SCHEDULE "A" SCHEDULE"A" SCHEDULE"B" SCHEDULE“C“
CONTEXT	PAGE
PURPOSE	3
RECOGNITION	3
UNION MEMBERSHIP	3
AND UNION DUES	
MANAGEMENT FUNCTIONS	4
STRIKES AND LOCKOUTS	4
UNION REPRESENTATION	5
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE	6
ARBITRATION	7
SENIORITY	a
LAYOFF AND RECALL	ii
LEAVE OF ABSENCE	14
HOURS OF WORK	15
OVERTIME	17
SHIFTS	18
WAGES	19
HOLIDAYS	22
VACATIONS	23
BENEFITS	25
BEREAVEMENT ALLOWANCE	27
EMERGENCY GUARANTEE	27
TOOL ALLOWANCE	27
JURY DUTY	27
SAFETY AND HEALTH	28
NOTICES	28
FOOTWEAR	29
DURATION OF AGREEMENT	29
WAGE ADMINISTRATION	31
TABLE 1	32
TABLE 2	34
TABLE 3	35
TABLE 4	38
	41
PAY EQUITY	43
2
ARTICLE X - PURPOSE
1.01	The purpose of this Agreement is tu ^establish mutually satisfactory relations
between the Company and its employees covered by this Agreement and to provide machinery for the prompt, equitable disposition of grievances.
ARTICLE 2 - RECOGNITION
2.01	The Company recognizes the Union as the exclusive bargaining agent for all of its employees in Toronto, save and except forepersons, supervisors, persons above the rank of foreperson or supervisor, chief engineer, consulting chemists, chief chemist, nurse, office and sales staff, (jaritms and watchmen working less than 24 hours a week), and ail such employees shall be covered by this Agreement.
2.02	It is reoognizedthat forepersons, naddition to their managerial functions, may do work that is ordinarily done by members of the Bargaining Unit, as defined in Schedule B herein.
2.03	In the event that the Company purchases the shares or assets of another company that do not principally involve leather tanning operations which arc absorbed and carried on n Toronto then the employees working in this new subsidiary or division will not be covered by this Agreement. Employees covered by this Agreement will not have any rights or entitlementsrelating to such work.
(a) However, the Company and the Union shall negotiate a separate Collective Agreement recognizing any such new Bargaining Unit, assuming that there are no subsisting bargaining rights that would preclude the Union.
ARTICLE 3 - UNION MEMBERSHIP AND UNION DUES
3.01	It shall be a condition of employment that any employee who is a member of the Union upon the signing of this Agreement shall remain so for as long as he is an employee under this Agreement and that any new employee hired into the Bargaining Unit shall become a member of the Union at most 60 working days from his starting date and shall remain so for as long as he is an employee under this Agreement.
3.02	The Company shall deduct from the first wages and all subsequent wages due each employee, covered by this Collective Agreement, the regular union dues
3
and initiation fee as from time to time indicated, to the Company, by the Union, in writing, It shall be the responsibility of the Union to advise the Company of such obligations and no employee shall lose or be refused membership in the Union for non-payment of regular dues if the Union has not specifically advised the Company of such obligations.
The Union shall save the Company harmless from any costs whatsoever resulting from any dispute as between any employee or employees and the Union as the validity of obligation in respect of such regular dues.
3.03	The Company shall remit to the Union, by the 15th of the month following deduction, all dues and fees deducted along with a list on the form provided by the Union showing from whom deducted, S.I.N., address of first deduction and if changed, ard if no deduction the reason why. This information will be provided on computer diskettes, or tape, supplied by the Union, if software is mutually compatible.
3.04	The Employer will ensure that all new employees, upon completion of the probationary period, complete a membership application form (as supplied by the Union) and forward the same to the Union Office with the regular monthly union dues.
ARTICLE 4 - MANAGEMENT FUNCTIONS
4.01	All aspects of management shall be the exclusive prerogative of the Company,
subject only to the terms of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 5 - STRIKES AND LOCKOUTS
5.01	It is understood and agreed that there shall be no strike, concerted work stoppage, slowdown, or other such activity by the Union or by any of its members during the term of this Agreement or while negotiations for its renewal or amendment are in progress. It is further understood and agreed
• that should there be any strike, concerted work stoppage, slowdown, or other such activity by any of the said members, the Union shall make and continue to make every effort to prevent or stop such action and shall condemn such action.
5.02	it is understood and agreed that there shall be no "lockouts" by the Company during the term of this Agreement or while negotiations for its renewal or amendment are in progress.
4
ARTICLE 6 ■ UNION REPRESENTATION
6.01	For the purpose of discussing and, adjusting matters arising out c£ the interpretation, application or administration of this Agreement, and for the processing of grievances as hereinafter set out, the Company shall recognize a Shop Steward for each thirty (30) active members (or majority fraction thereof) of the Union employed by the Company. One of the stewards shall he Chairperson, and will be kept on day shift provided that, in the opinion of the Company, Chairperson being on day shift does not interfere with the efficient operation of the Plant. The Bargaining and Grievance Committee which shall be comprised of no more than three (3) members, shall meet with representatives of the Company as necessary. A Full-time Representative of the Urim shall be a member of this Bargaining and Grievance Committee and attend all negotiating meeting, grievance meetings beginning at Step 2 cf the grievance procedure contained hereinafter, and may attend any other meeting held between the Company and the Bargaining and Grievance Committee, Accredited officials cf the Union shall have access tithe plant premises upon reasonable notice to the Production Mferagpr or designate.
6.02	For the purpose of processing employees’ grievances as hereinafter set. out, the Company shall recognize Shop Stewards as set out herein. The Union shall keep the Company informed, in writing and within 30 days of any changes in the members of the Bargaining and Grievance Committee, the stewards and the chairperson of the Bargaining art Grievance Committee. It is understood and agreed that the first responsibility of Shop Steward is to their work for the Company art they shall not leave such work except in 1he performance of their duties under this Agreement, and then only in such a way as to cause the least possible loss of production and order, and they must explain the nature of his business to each Supervisor involved.
6.03	The Shop Chairperson shall carry out any duties under this agreement under the same conditions as a Shop Steward but in respect of all those areas in which employees under this Agreement are employed.
6.04	Grievance Committee persons and Stewards shall not lose pay while carrying out their duties under this Agreement during regular working hours.
6.05	No employee shall, in any manner, be discriminated against on the basis of Union membership, Uhion activity, or the exercise of any rights under this Agreement.
6.06	No employee shall, in any manner, be discriminated against on the basis of race, religion, ancestry, national origin, sex or marital status as per the Ontario Human Rights Code.
5
6.07
6.08
ARTTCT
7.01
7.02 Step 1
Step 2
7.03
7.04
Each employee shall have the right to examine their personal disciplinary file upon submission of a written request to the Company. A representative of the Company and the Union if requested, will be present during the examination of the file ami if requested by the employee, will supply copies of any documents in the said file.
The Negotiating Committee will be comprised of three (3) members from the bargaining unit. Members of the negotiating committee will be paid eight (8) hours at their regular rate of pay for each day spent in negotiations, four (4) hours of which will be paid by the Company and four (4) hours will be paid by the Union.
ft. rmnr.vANCE FRncF.nintF.
Any employee with seniority who feels they have a grievance under this Agreement shall discuss the matter with their foreperson, with a view to prompt settlement or explanation thereof. The employee's Shop Steward may accompany that employee in such discussion if the employee so desires,
If the employee is not satisfied after the above discussion, the grievance shall be settled in accordance with the following procedure:
The grievance shall be set down in writing and presented to the Production Manager (or designate) within ten (10) working days of the occurrence of the issue being grieved. The Company shall answer the grievance in writing within five (5) working days from receipt thereof.
Should the employee or the Bargaining and Grievance Committee still not be satisfied, the grievance shall be referred to a meeting of the Bargaining and Grievance Committee and the Company. Such meeting shall te held as promptly as possible. Within eight (8) working days of such meeting, the Company shall deliver its answer to the Chairperson of the Bargaining and Grievance Committee, with a copy to the Full-time Union Representative.
Should the above meeting not have taken place within fifteen (15) working days of referral, then either party may proceed to arbitration.
Time limits in this Article and Article 8 may be modified or extended by mutual agreement in writing.
Discharge Cases
In the event that an employee with seniority is discharged, the Bargaining and Grievance Committee and the Full-time Union Representative shall be so
€
notified within two (2) working days where possible. A claim by an employee with saiodty that such employee has been unjustly discharged shall be treated as a grievance and may be taken to arbitration if a written statement of such grievance is lodged with the Company under Article 7,02 (b), Step 2, within five (5) working days of the above notification to the Bargaining and Grievance Committee and the Full-time Union Representative.
Such special grievances may be settled by the Board of Arbitration by:
1.	confirming the Company’s action in dismissal of the employee;
2.	reinstating the employee with full compensation for time lost; or
3.	any other arrangement which may be deemedjust and equitable.
7.05	Matters arising out of the interpretation, application or administration of this Agreement of a general nature may be the subject of a grievance which may be initiated by either party. Such grievance shall be entered at the 2nd Step,
7.06	Either party shall have the right to require the attendance of the grievor at any meeting held pursuant to the grievance procedure.
7.07	An agreement reached between the Management and the Bargaining and Negotiating Committee, subject to due process, is binding on ail workers affected and cannot be changed by any individual.
7.08	If an employee’s work record is free of suspension for a twelve month period, then all prior suspensions or written notations or warnings relating to the conduct of the employee, shall be removed from the employee’s record.
7.09	The Company agrees that if a meeting is called between the Company and an employee for the purpose of discipline a steward will be present, if a steward is present on that shift.
ARTICLE 8 - ARBITRATION
8.01	In the event that a grievance is not satisfactorily settled under the grievance procedure. either party may refer the grievance to a sole arbitrator.
8.02	The party desiring the arbitration shall notify, in writing, the other party of its desire to arbitrate. Such notice shall contain a list of at least (3) qualified arbitrators.
7
8.03
The party receiving the notice shall forthwith either:
(a)	notify the fust party of its acceptance of one of the arbitratorslisted,
or
(b)	provide to the first party a list of at least three (3) qualified arbitrators, firm which to choose.
8.04	If the parties are unable to agree on an arbitrator within 30 days of the first notice, then the Minister of Labour shall be requested to appoint an Arbitrator.
8.05	The Arbitrator shall convene a hearing as promptly as possible to hear the
8.06	The Arbitrator shall be given access to the plant, should such access be requested by either party.
8.07	The part ies shall jointly bear the expenses, if any. of the Arbitrator.
8.08	The Arbitrator shall not be authorized to alter, modify, or amend any of the provisions of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 9 - SENIORITY
9.01	Subjectto theprovisions of this Agreementrespectingthe same, an employee’s seniority shall be determined by the length of such employee’s continuous employment with the Company.
9.02	The first sixty (60) working days of an employee’s employment with the Company shall be a probationary period, after which such employee shall become an employee with seniority, dating -from the day such employee commenced work. Absence of more than seven (7) days during the probationary period will be added to the period.
9.03	' The Company shall have the rightto discharge a probationary employee, wi1h
or without just cause, where the company has, in its sole discretion and in good faith, made adetermlnation that the probationary employee is not suitable for continued employment with the Company.
9.04	An employee shall lose all seniority and shall be deemed to have quit the employ of the Company for any of the following reasons:
(a)	voluntarily quits employment with the Company;
8 -
9.05
9.06
9.07
(b)	is discharged and not reinstated through the grievance procedure;
(c)	fails to respond to recall as herein provided;
(d)	is absent on leave for more than three (3) months at one time except by agreement of the parties hereto;
(e)	fails to return from a leave of absence as herein provided;
(f)	is not recalled to work within:
(i)	20 months for employees with 20 years or more seniority;
(ii)	18 months for employees with 15 years or more seniority;
(jjj) 12 norths for employees with from one to 15 years seniority;
(iv) the period of actual seniority for employees with less than 1 year's seniority.
(g)	takes anotherjob while on leave of absence without having received prior written permission firm the Company to do so.
(h)	completes his/her entitlement for Weekly Indemnity Benefits as described in Article 18,06, or his/her Workers' Compensation total temporary disability benefits have ceased, and does not return to work within five working days of such completion, unless he is prevented from so doing for reasonable cause and has notified the Production Manager of such cause within that five (5) working day period.
Lost seniority may be restored in whole or in part by agreement of the parties hereto.
Lists showing the seniority of all employees under this Agreement shall be prepared and maintained by the Company and shall be open to inspection by the Bargaining and Grievance Committee. New lists shall be made up each year, shall be posted for a minimum of two weeks each year, and the Bargaining and Grievance Committee shall have a copy of each.
(a)	In the event new jobs are created or permanent vacancies occur, the Company will post such new jobs or vacancies for period of five (5) working days before new employees are hired in order to allow
9
employes with seniority in another classification to apply. If no saner employes apply, probationary employees will be considered.
(b)	If no applications are received by 10:00 A.M. on the fifth day following the posting date, the Company may start proceedings to secure applications from outside labour sources.
(c)	El the event that two or more employees with seniority apply for a postadjob, the Company shall considerthe skills, ability, and physical fitness of the applicants. Seniority shall govern only when two applicants are of equal standing in terms of these criteria, considered on an overall basis.
(d)	It is agreed that successful applicants on the job bidding procedure will not be permitted to re-apply for a period of six (6) months.
(e)	If, in the opinion of the Company, none of the applicants is qualified to perform the open job, then the Company has the right to select any
other employee for the job or may hire from outside after first d iscuss mg tte matter with the Union. If, in the opinion of the Union, the Company has not considered all of the relevant facts, then the matter may be taken up through the grievance procedure,
(f)	Employees with greater seniority who are unsuccessful in bidding on such jobs under this section shall be advised why they did not qualify.
(g)	(j) A temporary vacancy shall be defined as the longer of toby
(30) working days, or the period of the duration of the absence duc to illness or injury of the individual who worked that job previously, or until their termination, or by mutual agreement in writing by the parties hereto.
(ii) However, temporary vacancies occurring during the period of posting may be filled by the Company in such manner as it may in its discretion determine.
(h)	Only the first vacancy shall be posted. Vacancies arising out of the original posting will be filled by the Company. However, an employee may apply in writing for the second vacancy created not later rim three (3) days after such position becomes vacant and sections c, d, e. f, g, above will apply. If such employee is refused the second vacancy, that employee shall be advised of the reason for the refusal.
10
9.08
9.09
(i)	If an employee is transferred to another department due to lack <£ ' work, that employee may return to their former job before a new
employee is hired for that job;
(j)	In the event that more than one employee is doing the same job, as a regular assignment, then the senior employee shall not be transferred from that job, provided such employee has equal skill and ability compared to any junior employee doing that same job.
Regular Assignment
For the purposes of this agreement regular assignment(s) shall mean having been assigned to that job or operation on a regular basis for the preceding six (6) months. Temporary transfers and layoffs will not be included in the calculation of the six months.
(a)	The Company shall distribute a form once each six months on which employees may make a wittm request to train on a specific jcb. The Company shall provide the employee, as soon as possible, with an opportunity to train on the requested job. The Company in its discretionhas the right to terminate the training period, if the employee fails to demonstratethe required skills,
(b)	Success in a training program does not entitle the employee to any rights of job sdantdm, other than provided for in Article 10,01 or 9.07.
ARTICLE 10 - LAYOFF AND RECALL
10.01	When it is necessary to layoff employees, or to recall employees who have been laid off, the employees to be laid off or recalled shall be selected on the basis of seniority providing the senior employee has previously qualified on the job in the plant or can perform the work available satisfactorily without training. In the event that all jobs that require no training are filled by senior employees and further layoffs are required which involve skilled jobs, a senior employee- may have ally one opportunity to supplant any junior employee, providing such employee is able to attain the required skills of the junior psrsais's regular assignment within a ten (10) day training period. However, if such employee has twenty (20) years seniority or over, then he/she shall be given a fifteen (15) day training period. As between two employees who are fully competent to perform the work available seniority shall govern the selection. The rate paid for the job chosen by the employee exercising this right to supplant shall be the rate of the job, as listed in Schedule “A” Table 1, subject to the provisions of Article 15,01,
ll
(a)	A notice of layoff issued by the Company shall contain:
- date the Notice is issued " name of the person being laid off " date the layoff is to commence
■ whether layoff is temporary (indicate term if known) or permanent ' the entire text of Article 10.01
(b)	Accompanying the Notice of layoff will be a form entitled "Decision to Supplant" ("BUMP") on which the employee will be able to confirm, in writing, if and when he/she chooses to exercise his/her right to supplant, and to indicate the junior person being supplanted and the relevant regular assignment. This form must be signed and dated by the employee and a steward to be considered complete. The effective date of the decision will be the day the completed form is received by the Company.
(c)	The following jobs are considered skilledjobs and cannot be learned within the training period described in Article 10,01 above. This clause does not apply to employees who are performing, or who have previously performed these jobs.
Sorter - Blue/Crust/Final Operator - Lime/Tan Drum/Colouring ■ Splitting Finish Mixing
Gizrin Buffing
RCM Feed Sample Work Licensed Tradesperson
(d)	Notice of recall shall be sent to the employee's last recorded address and such employee shall have a maximum of five (5) working days in which to report for work. Seniority shall accrue during layoff.
(e)	An employee who has moved from his/her regular assignment as a result of a layoff, will upon recall or availability of work return to his/her regular assignment and rate.
10.02	Each member of the Bargaining and Grievance Committee and Stewards, will be retained in employment without regard to seniority so long as there is work available that they are competent and willing to perform. Such work shall not be higher rated than their regular work except by mutual agreement of the
- 12 -
10.03
10.04
10.05
parties hereto. Should an employee cease to be a member of 1he Bargaining and Grievance Committee or a Steward while layoff is in effect, such employee shall be dealt with under Ole normal layoff and recall procedures when the next layoff occurs.
During periods of plant shutdown, when there is a staggered phase-down and phase-up of work, rights as described in Sections 10.01 and 10.02 above will not apply to supplant employees who are working on their regular assignments during these phase-down and phase-up periods. The schedule and duration of a plant shutdown will be posted by the Company, after discussion with foe Union. (By way of example: the first department out is the first department back and so on, in sequence.)
The Union Chairperson or designate shall be present when an employee is advised of layoff pursuant to Article 10.01. If the advice of layoff is provided in writing by mail, the Chairperson shall receive a copy of the advice on the day it is mailed.
(a)	The Company shall provide the Union Chairperson or designate with an up-to-date copy of the seniority list which includes the name, seniority, and regular assignment of all employees junior to the person being laid off.
(b)	The Company shall provide the Union office with a list of the names of such employees laid off within fifteen (15) working days of the date of layoff.
(a)	If any employee is to be laid off for a period of more than five (5) working days but less than ten (10) working days, and such period is not pan of a vacation or shutdown as described in Article 10.03, then that employee shall receive one (1) day written notice of such layoff, or eight (8) hours pay in lieu of such notice.
(b)	If an employee is to be laid off for more than ten (10) working days, and such period is not part of a vacation or shutdown as per Article
10.03	then foe following will apply:
(i)	Employees with five (5) years or less seniority shall receive two (2) working days written notice of such layoff or pay in lieu of such notice.
(ii)	Employees with five (5) to twenty (20) years seniority shall receive five (5) working days written notice of such layoff or pay in lieu of such notice.
- 13 -
(iii) Employees with more than twenty (20) years seniority shall receive ten (10) working days written notice of such layoff or pay in lieu of such notice.
(c)	If insufficient notice is given as provided above, the employee will be
paid eight (8) hours pay, at regular rate, for each day of notice not given.
10.06 Permanent layoffs shall be in accordance with the Employment Standards Act.
Notice as described in 10,05 shall not be added to the notice requirements of the Employment Standards Act.
ARTTCFF11 • TFAVF, OF ABSENCE
11.01	An employee with seniority will be granted a leave of absence without pay upon presentation of a certificate of a physician attesting to illness or other disability which prevents such employee from performing their regular duties. When an employee is able to perforin their regular duties such employee shall so advise the Company and shall report for work within seven (7) days of the time such employee is able to perform their regular duties or such employee shall lose all rights under this Agreement.
11.02	A female employee who becomes pregnant will be granted a leave of absence in accordance with the terms and conditions set out in the Ontario Women’s Equal Employment Opportunity Act. If she reports for work within two (2) months and seven (7) days from the date of delivery, she shall be returned to her former job or its nearest equivalent available. If she does not so report, she shall lose all rights under this Agreement.
11.03	On request from the Union, leave of absence without pay will be granted for official duties with the Union. Such leaves shall not exceed one (1) week continuous (except in the case of the International Convention) or three (3) weeks accumulative per employee in one (1) year, shall not apply to mare than three (3) employees at any one time, and shall not apply to more than two (2) members of the Bargaining and Grievance Committee or 1he Local Executive at any one time.
11.04	On request from the Union, the Company shall grant leave of absence without pay to an employee for a period not exceeding such employee’s first time of office, but not longer than one year for full-time service with the Union, provided that the number of employees who, at any one time, shall be granted such leave, shall be mutually agreed.
14
11.05	The Company may grant leave of absence without pay not exceeding three (3) months for lessens other than as set out herein. Such leaves shall not be refused unreasonably if such request is made in writing explaining the need for leave and is submitted a reasonable period prior to the required departure and specifiesthe date of return. Leave of absence must be approved in writing by the Company.
11.06	Seniority shall accrue during the forgoing leaves of absence.
ARTICLE 12 - HOURS OF WORK
12.01	(a) The standard work week shall consist of forty (40) hours of work,
eight (8) hours per day, Monday to Friday, except for the Lune Wash Function which will be Tuesday to Saturday. Should production requirements dictate a change in the work week (if production levels increase by fifty percent (50%) from the current production levels) the following will apply:
The standard work day may be eight (8) or ten (10) hours per day, Monday to Friday, or as specifically provided for in each department.
Department
Regular Work Week
Lime Yard wringing Setting Drying
Tuesday to Saturday Tuesday to Saturday Sunday to Thursday Tuesday to Saturday
The work day shall consist of eight (8) hours for the above.
The regular work week for the following departments will be Monday to Friday:
Finishing
Plating
Pasting
Toggling and Staking Buffing
Final Sort
Blue dort Splitting/Shaving Belt Trimming Fleshing
Tannery Forklift Turnery (£eratars
Colour Operators Load Preparation Maintenance
IS
If four (4) ten (10) hour days are implemented it will be scheduled Monday to Thursday or Tuesday to Friday.
(b)	For employees hired after July 1, 1994, for the Monday to Saturday shift, the work week shall consist of five (5) days, forty (40) hours franMondav to'Saturday inclusive, The standard work day shall be eight (8) hours.
12.02	The foregoing constitutes no guarantee by the Company to any employee of a specific number of hours or work, either per day or per week.
12.03	A schedule of the starting and stopping times of each shift, including breaks and lunches for each department, will be posted two (2) weeks prior to implementation. The day shift will not be required to commence work later than 7:00 A.M. The afternoon shift will not be required to commence work later than 4:00 P.M.
(a)	The Company will allow each employee who wishes one break period of ten (10) minutes during each half of a standard work day.
(b)	The lunch period shall be thirty minutes, and shall be unpaid, except for continuous shift workers (i.e. those that work in departments that work continuously for 24 hours) or those working as colour drum operators who shall be entitled to a twenty (20) minute paid lunch period.
(c)	Employees will not cease to work or leave their departments prior to the times posted by the Company unless otherwise instructed by their Foreperson.
(d)	Employees must be at their work assignments ready to commence work at the times posted by the Company, unless otherwise instructed by their Foreperson.
. (e)	No employee will be allowed to work unauthorized or unpaid
overtime in addition to their regular hours.
(f)	Each employee shall punch their own Time Card only. Punching
Time Cards other than an employee’s own may be cause for dismissal.
- 16
(g)	When an employee is required to work overtime at the end of his
shift, the employee will be given a tHl (10) minute break prior to commencing overtime.
12.04	The Company agrees that it will not call for a short work week (e.g. 3 day week, or 4 day week) unless any one of the following occurs:
(a)	a major breakdown of equipment which interrupts production for more than eight (8) hours;
(b)	layoffs have taken place to the point where the Company seniority list contains less than ninety (90) names of actively employed individuals, for a period of five consecutive working days. Actively employed means any employee with seniority who has not been laid off, suspended or is not absent on Workers Compensation or Sickness Benefit or on voluntary leave;
(c)	after discussion with the Bargaining and Grievance Committee, and by mutual agreement between the Union and the Company.
(d)	in case of force majeure
In the event that plant wide shutdown of 4 or more consecutive working days is required because of production levels, holidays and vacation period, or plant overhauls, the above clause will not apply during that period.
ARTICLE 13 - OVERTIME
13.01	Work performed other than as set out in Article 12 shall be paid for at one and one-half time the employee’s regular rate. However, work performed on Sundays or on holidays listed in Article 16 shall be paid fr at twice the employee’s regular rate.
13.02	The Company undertakes to assign overtime work as equitably as " circumstances permit among those employees generally performing the work.
13.03	Upon reasonable request, in writing, by the Union, the Company shall provide a list of overtime hours worked by employees.
13.04	In the event that the Company requires an employee to work overtime for a consecutive period of four (4) or more hours without having notified that employee the previous day, the Company will pay that employee a meal allowance of five (5) dollars.
17
13.05	Mechanical/Process Breakdown
In the event of a mechanical breakdown in the operations of "hide pick-up", "fleshing", "blue pick-up". "wringing" and "blue sorting", or in the event of a process breakdown which directly affects these operations, the daily workload for these operations must nevertheless be completed so as not to cause damage to the leather in process. Employees working in these operations shall be required under such circumstances to work overtime, if requested to do so by the Company, unless the employee has a reasonable explanation as to why he is not able to work the overtime.
13.06	In the event the Company requires an employee to work on his regular day off (excluding Sunday and Statutory Holidays) the employee will be paid one and one-half times (1 'Ax) their regular rate of pay.
ARTICLE 14 - SHIFTS
14.01	Unless otherwise arranged, a Shift will be considered as worked on the day it commences. A shift commencing before 12:00 noon shall be deemed to be a first shift. A shift commencing after 12:00 noon but before 8:00 P,M, shall be deemed to be a second shift.
A shift commencing after 8:00 P.M, but before 4:00 A.M. shall be deemed to be a third shift. When an employee works on a second shift he shall receive a premium of (.40) per hour. When an employee works on a rotating third shift, he shall receive a premium of fifty (50) cents per hour. When an employee works on a permanent third shift, he shall receive a premium of $1.00 per hour. Such premium shall not be subject to overtime premium.
14.02	Third shift premium will be paid to employees starting the day shift prior to 6:00 A.M. The premium will be paid from the start of the shift until 6:00 A.M. only.
14.03	In the event that the Company requests an employee to temporarily change shift, such employee will be notified of such transfer twenty-four hours prior to the commencement of the shift to which the employee is to be transferred. Failure to provide such notice shall result in the payment at time and one half the employees regular hourly rate for all hours worked on the first day of such transfer.
14.04	As long as there is unanimous agreement among those doing the rotating shift work, a fixed schedule can be established, subject to the approval of the Company.
18
ARTICLE 15 - WAGES
15.01	Schedule "A", attached to and forming part of this Agreement, sets out the basis of wage administration effective with the signing of this Agreement.
(a)	Any employee who as of May 28, 1994, has been paid at a higher rate than that shown in Schedule A, Table 1 shall be "red circled" for the term of such employee's employment with the Company. These employees are listed in Schedule "A", Table 3, The employee's red circled rate shall terminate if that employee bas been laid off for a period of more than six continuous months, even if he subsequently returns to work pursuant to Article 10.01. Any employee, not listed in Table 3, replacing a red circled employee shall continue to receive the Schedule "A" Table 1 rate.
(b)	The employees listed in Table 3 shall be paid the red circled rate only when performing the specific job described in Table 3. For any other work the employee will receive the Schedule A, Table 4 rate for the job performed, subject to the provisions of Article 10,01
(c)	Any red circled employee listed in Table 3 who supplants (bumps) a person on the red circled list (Table 3) will receive the Table 4 rate for the job performed. If a red circled employee supplants (bumps) a person not listed on Table 3 he/she will receive the rates as per Schedule "A", Table 1,
(d)	Effective February 1, 1996, there will be a forty cents (40C) increase to all wages and classifications in Table 3 and Table 4. Effective February 1, 1997, there will be a further forty cents (40C) increase to all wages and classifications in Table 3 and Table 4. Effective February 1, 1996 there will be a thirty cents (309) .increase to all wages and classifications in Table _1 and effective February 1, 1997 there will be a further thirty cents (30C) increase to all wages and classifications in Table 1.
15.02	In the event that the Company wishes to introduce a piece work rate, such introduction shall not take place until the Company and the Union have agreed on a set of time study rules to govern the establishment of such piece work rates. If an agreement on such rules cannot be reached, either party may submit the matter of Time Study Rules to Arbitration, pursuant to Article 8.
15.03	Notwithstanding the forgoing, it is recognized that an appreciable change in methods, equipment, material or working conditions will justify an adjustment in hourly or piecework rates, and the degree of such change will be a major
- 19 -
factor in determining the extent of such adjustment. To ascertain the extent of such adjustment the-job will be evaluated by the job evaluation system described in Schedule D herein.
If any such adjustment is made during the life of the Agreement, the employees affected shall accept the new rates for at least fifteen (16) working days.
If, at the end of such time, any employees affected are dissatisfied, the Steward or Stewards concerned may take the matter up with the appropriate supervisors and, failing prompt satisfaction, the matter may be processed as a grievance as follows:
15.04	Within fifteen (15) working days after the end of the fifteen (16) day period referred to above, the Bargaining and Grievance Committee shall request the Production Manager to arrange a meeting to review the question stating its reasons for disagreement and, within five (5J working days after such meeting, the Company shall deliver its final answer. If the Bargaining and Grievance Committee is not satisfied with the Company’s answer, it may, within ten (10) working days from the receipt of such answer, process the matterto arbitration as set out in Article S with the added provision that the Arbitrator shall be a person experienced in matters of this kind.
15.05	Rate adjustments made as a result of the foregoing procedure shall take effect from the beginning of the fust fifteen (15) day period above unless otherwise agreed by the parties or directed by the Arbitrator.
15.06	An employee who, for the convenience of the Company, is temporarily transferred to work for which the rate of pay is different from that in effect for such employee’s regular work shall be paid, while so employed, as follows:
(a)	If the rate of pay for the work to which the employee is transferred is less than the employee’s regular pay, such employee shall receive their own higher rats of pay.
(b)	If the rate of pay for the work to which such employee is transferred is higher than the employee’s regular pay, such employee shall receive the higher rate of pay for the work to which such employee is temporarily transferred.
15.07	An employee who, for the convenience and benefit of the employee, is temporarily transferred to other work instead of being laid off due to lack of work, breakdown of machinery or other like cause shall be paid, while so employed, as follows:
20
15.08
15.09
15.10
15.11
(a)	If the rate of pay for the work to which such employee is transferred is less than the employee's regular pay, such employee shall receive the lower rate paid for the work to which such employee is transferred.
(b)	If the rate of pay for the work to which such employee is transferred, is higher ttanthe employee's regular pay, such employee shall receive the higher rate of pay for the work to which such employee is temporarily transferred, provided that the employee displays efficiency, skill or ability equal to that of the employees on the work to which such employee is transferred.
Notwithstanding 15,06 and 15,07 above, an employee shall be paid their regular rate for the balance of the shift on which this temporary transfer takes place.
(a)	Should breakdown, shortageof material or other cause of a tatpacary nature make it necessary for an employee to "stand by", such employee may be assigned other work but shall be paid at their regular rate for the remainder of their shift or for a maximum of four (4)hours, whichever shall first occur.
In the event an employee reports for work on their regular shift without previously having been told not to report, such employee shall receive at least four (4) hours' pay at tharregular rate, or such employee may be required to perform four (4)hours' work at any job such employee is able to do, except in circumstances beyond the control of the Company, such as breakdown of major machinery, fire and power failure.
The Company will set the rates for new classifications established during the lifetime of this Agreement provided that, after a trial period of fifteen (15) working days, the rate may be subject to the special grievance procedure as set out above. The existing rate structure shall be a major factor in determining such rates.
If, as a result of such new classification, an employee would receive a reduction in rate, such employee will have the right to be transferred to any other job in the plant providing such employee has the competence required to perform the job, and further providing that such employee has more seniority than the worker "bumped". The Company shall allow a reasonable training period if such is required. Until such time as the worker is transferred to anotherjob carryingthe same rate of pay, such employee shall continue to receive their old rate. Such employee shall exercise their right to be sotransferredwithinfour(4) months, after which time such employee shall forfeit such right and shall accept the rate set for the new classification.
- 21 -
15.12 The Union will co-operate in the elimination of waste, inefficient production and poor workmanship.
ARTICLE 16 • HOLIDAYS
(a)	The Company recognizes the following holidays:
New Year’s Day Dominion Day Good Friday Labour Day Thanksgiving Day Christmas Day Boxing Day Two (2) Floater Days Victoria Day Civic Holiday
16.02	Each of the above holidays shall be observed on the day on which it falls unless otherwise declared by the appropriate government authority.
(a)	The two (2) Floater Days will be taken at a time mutually agreed to by the Company and the employee.
(b)	The Company also recognizes that for December 24th and December 31st, eight (8) hours will be paid for only if five (5) hours are actually worked on each day.
(c)	The Union recognizes that hill co-operation will be required in implementation. For the above listed holidays, section 16,04 below will apply.
16.03	All employees will be paid for the above holidays at their regular hourly rate or eight times their average hourly earnings during the preceding week, as the
■ case may be. in order to qualify for payment an employee must:
(a)	have acquired seniority as of the date of the day of observance of the holiday;
(b)	work the last scheduled work day prior to and the first scheduled work day after the observance of the holiday, save that an employee through sickness who provides the Company on the day of their return with an explanation of the illness, in writing, from a licensed physician or who
- 22 -
has been granted permission by the Production M£rag=r or designate to be absent on one or both of the above mentioned days oniy. An employee does not qualify for the above holidays if such employee has been laid c£f for a lack of work more than seven days prior to the observance of the holiday.
Any employee required by the Company to work on one of the above listed holidays and who does work will be paid the rate of double time for all hours worked, in addition to their holiday pay.
If, a statutory holiday fails during the employee's claim periodfor WCB, UIC, or Weekly Indemnity, the Company will pay only the difference between the holiday pay and the benefit payment payable for that day to such employee, in no way shall an employee be able to "pyramid" benefits.
Statutory Holidays for employees on a ten (10) hour work day, four (4) days a week, will be paid as follows:
If the Statutory Holiday falls on a day the employee is normally scheduled to work he/she will receive ten (10) hours pay. If the Statutory Holiday falls on a non-scheduled work day he/she will be paid eight (8) hours.
ARTICLE 17 - VACATIONS
17.01	Each employee with seniority shall have a yearly vacation with pay based on their service as at June 30th of that year, according to the following formula:
1(a)	The first and second weeks of vacation shall be in accordance with the
Ontario Employment Standards Act or the following, whichever is greater.
(b)	0 to 6 months service - Entitlement 0 weeks 4% of Gross Earnings.
(c)	6 months to 1 year service ■ Entitlement 1 week 4 % of Gross Earnings
or 40 times Regular Hourly Rate whichever is greater.
(d)	1 year to 4 years service - Entitlement 2 weeks 4% of Gross Earnings
or 80 times Regular Hourly Rate whichever is greater,
(e)	4 years to 13 years service ■ Entitlement 3 weeks 6% of Gross
Earnings or 120 times Regular Hourly Rate whichever is greater.
(f)	13 years to 21 years service ■ Entitlement 4 weeks 8% of Gross
Earnings or 160 times Regular Hourly Rate whichever is greater.
- 23 -
16.04
16.OS
16.06
17.02
17.03
17.04
17.05
17.06
17.07
(g)	21 years to 30 years service - Entitlement 5 weeks 10% of Gross Earnings or 200 times Regular Hourly Rate whichever is greater.
(h)	30 years or more service • Entitlement 6 weeks 12% of Gross Earnings or 240 times Regular Hourly Rate whichever is greater.
(i)	After 40 years of service - Entitlement 7 weeks 14% Gross Earnings or 280 times Regular Hourly Rate whichever is greater.
For the purpose of this clause gross earnings shall mean the gross earnings of an employee from July 1st the previous year to June 30th of the year in which the vacations apply, including but not restricted to public holiday pay and previous vacation pay. For piece workers, regular hourly rate shall be their average piece work earnings for the one year prior to June 30th.
Such vacations shall be taken in the calendar year in which they apply, and so as to cause the least possible interference with operations. Vacations must be exercised in the year they are due. Anyone. asked by the Company to work during vacation periods shall be entitled to equivalent alternate time off without pay.
If the Company recalls an employee to work from their vacation, such employee shall be paid time and one-half in addition to their vacation pay.
(a)	If an employee works less than 1200 regular hours during the twelve months preceding June 30, then his/her vacation pay will not be the greater of the calculations described in 17.01 above, but will be calculated as a percentage of his/her gross earnings for the hours actually worked during the twelve months.
(b)	Employees hired after July 1, 1994, mustwork 1500 regular hours or more during the twelve month period prior to June 30 in order to qualify for vacation pay calculated on the "whichever is greater" basis as described in Article 17,01.
Vacation pay will be paid on the last working day of each department, during the phase-down for summer shutdown.
If an employee wishes to take more than three weeks vacation at any one time, then his/her request must be made in writing to the Company by April 1. If two or more employees request the same period. vacation will be assigned by seniority.
24
ARTTCT
18.01
18.02
18.03
18.04
18.05
18 - BENEFITS
The Company shall pay the full premium for full-time eligible employees, commencing the beginning of the month following the month in which that employee acquires seniority, for life insurance, weekly indemnity, major medical, prescription drug, and Ontario Health Insurance plans.
(a) In the event that the Government of Ontario reinstitutes an individual payment system for universal health insurance, such as 0, H, 1, P was, then the Company shall pay such premium on behalf of each employee.
It is agreed that any and all premium rebates to employees required by legislation on welfare matters will be applied directly towards the cost of the total welfare coverage.
Dental Plan
The Company agrees to participate in the United Food and Commercial Workers Trusteed Dental Plan and to remit for each Bargaining Unit employee enrolled effective January 31, 1996, twenty-two cents (229) per hour worked, up to a maximum of forty (40) hours per week, as defined below. January 31, 1997, the hourly remittance shall be increased by one cent (19) per hour.
Pension Plan
The Company agrees to participate in the Canadian Commercial Workers Industry Pension Plan and remit effective February 1, 1996, thirty-three cents (339) and an additional four cents (49) effective February 1, 1997, per hour for each Bargaining Unit employee enrolled for all hours worked, to a maximum of forty (40) houis per week, as defined below.
In regard to the Dental Plan and the Pension Plan above:
(a)	The Company will remit the name, address, Social Insurance Number and other data that may be required for proper recording and administration of the plans.
(b)	The Company’s only other administrative responsibility in the above plans is to initially enroll the employees and to give out claim forms. The Company will not be responsible in any way for the management of these funds, or for the payment of any benefits relating to the Dental Plan or Pension Plan.
25
(c)	ffcurs worked shall include regular hours, overtime hours, vacation hours, statutory holidays, bereavement pay, or any other paid hours provided for in the Collective Agreement.
(d)	The Company shall remit such monies to the plan trustees by the 23 rd of the month following the hours worked.
18.06	The payments under the Weekly Indemnity Plan shall be:
(a)	$300.00 per week Length of Coverage:
(52) weeks including Unemployment Insurance Coverage 3rd ■ 17th week
(b)	For employees hired after July 1, 1994, the payments under the Weekly Indemnity Plan shall be $300,00 per week Length of coverage is 41 weeks including U.I, coverage 3rd • 17th week
(c)	After a claim of lull duration eligibility is lost for further coverage for a recurrence of the same injury or illness util the employee has returned and worked for a mLnimiri period of sixty (60) working days.
18.07	The Company shall cease to pay all benefit premiums and benefit coverage shall cease:
(a)	for any employee laid c£f pursuant to Article 10(a), after thirteen (13) weeks from the date of layoff.
(b)	for any employee on leave of absence, after the first day of the month following commencement of leave.
(c)	unless the employee affected by paragraphs (i) and (ii) pays to the Company, in advance, prior to the first day of the month of coverage being purchased, the full monthly premium, as paid by the Company, for coverage or supplementary health care and life insurance benefits only,
18.08	The Company agrees to provide a vision care plan providing a benefit of one hundred and fifty dollars ($150.00) per person, including dependants, in any continuous period of 24 months. This plan will provide $200,00 for contact lenses if they are prescribed because vision cannot be corrected to 20/40 acuity or better with eye glasses, but can be with contact lenses.
26
W.
19.01	In the event of death in the immediate family (spouse, father, mother, child, sister, brother, grandparent or parent-in-law) cf an employee with seniority, such employee shall be granted, upon notification, up to three (3) successive regular working days of absence without loss of pay, including the day of the funeral. Payment will be based on the regular scheduled hours of work in the plant up to a maximum of eight (8) hours per day at the employee’s regular day rate.
ARTICLE 20 - EMERGENCY GUARANTEE
20.01	If a maintenance employee has clocked out and left the premises, and is recalled to perform emergency work, such employee shall be paid a minimum of four (4) hours at one and one-halftimes their regular rate. The employee will be allowed to go home when the emergencyjob is finished and checked over.
ARTICLE l\ -JTQQL ALLOWANCE
21.01	The following employees will be granted a tool allowance of up to $130.00 in any one calendar year for the replacement of tools. Payment will be issued promptly upon submission of receipts and a written description of the tools purchased.
D,	Campbell	W, Morrison
L, McRae	J. Rounis
E.	Onouffiou	R. Lue
21.02	The employees listed in 21,01 above who are not licensed tradespersons will normally do production work although they may be called upon from time to time, based on their qualifications, to do maintenance or repair work.
ARTICLE 22-JURY DUTY
22.01	In the event that an employee is precluded from working their regular shift or ' shifts due to being called for and reporting for jury duty, the Company agrees to make up the difference in pay between the amount received for jury duty and the amount the employee would have received for working their regular shift or shifts. If the employee is not chosen, such employee must report back to work within two (2) hours. On being chosen for jury duty, the employee shall immediately notify the Company.
- 27 -
ARTICLE 23 - SAFETY AND HEALTH
23.01	The Company shall make reasonable provision for the safety and health of the employees during the hours of their employment.
23.02	Protective clothing and devices deemed necessary by the Company, and as required by legislation, to protect employees from injuries shall be supplied by the Company.
Such protective clothing and devices must be worn and utilized by the employee as instructed. at all times, as necessary.
23.03	If the Company introduces a chemical, not previously used, the Joint Safety and Health Committee will determine it’s proper classification within the chemical group listing supplied by I, A. P, A. The ebnnLttee will also ensure that the precautions noted under the chemical classifications an adhered to in all respects.
23.04	The Company will provide water coolers in convenient places in the Plant. ARTICLE 24 -NOTICES
24.01	The Company agrees that notices concerning Union activities may be posted in the plant on the bulletin board provided by the Company, subject to the following conditions:
(a)	Such notices shall receive the stamped approval of the Company prior to posting.
(b)	No change shall be made in any such notice, either by the Company or by the Union, after it has received the stamped approval of the Company.
(c)	No notice shall be posted except on the bulletin board as provided.
24.02	' The Union agrees that it will not distribute or post or cause to be permitted to
be distributed or posted on the property of the Company, for or on its behalf, any pamphlets, advertising or political matter, notices or any other kind of literature except with the written permission of the Company.
24.03	Ail notices and letters sent to the Union shall be addressed to the Full-time Representative, 2200 Argentia Road, Mississauga, Ontario L5N 2K7 with a copy to the chairperson of the Bargaining and Grievance Committee. The Union shall advise the Company of any changes in this address.
- 28 -
24.04	All notices and letters sent to the Company shall be addressed to The Vice President, A R, Clarke Limited, 633 Eastern Ave., Toronto, Ontario, M4M 1E5,
24.05	The Company shall provide the Union, in writing, the names and titles of senior supervisory personnel.
24.00	The Company shall notify the Union Chairperson of any appreciable change of methods, equipment, material or working conditions.
ARTICLE 2S - FOOTWEAR
25.01	The Company will supply CSA approved safety shoes or boots on the basis of one pair per employee per year to be issued on or before December 1st. Employees will be required to return used pair of safety boots in order to receive the new pair. In the case of rubber boots, these will be replaced when necessary, only upon the return of the used pair. New employees will be required to provide their own first pair of safety boots. Such safety footwear must be worn by the employee at all times while at work.
25.02	The Company shall supply all maintenance employees with three (3) shirts and three (3) pairs of pants.
ARTICLE 26 - DURATION OF AGREEMEN1
IMfiSS changed by mutual consent, the terms ofthis Agreement shall continue in effect until the 31st day of January 1998 and shall continue automatically from year to year tKerealffi^iniless^ltKCT^rty notifies the other in writing, not more than one hundred twenty (120) days and not less than thirty (30) days immediately prior to the expiration date, that it desires to amend or terminate the Agreement.
26.02	The parties shall agree upon a date, to begin negotiation, within fifteen (15) . days following notification for amendment as provided hereinbefore.
26.05	If, pursuant to such negotiations, an Agreement is not reached on the renewal or amendment of this Agreement, or the making of a new Agreement prior to the current expiry date, this Agreement shall continue in full force and effect until a new Agreement is signed between the parties, or until conciliation proceedings prescribed under the Ontario Labour Relations Act have been
completed, whichever date should first occur.
29
Signed this
day of
1996
FOR THF, COMPANY:
Ken Barden
SYmuj/p
Jeanne Rounis
FOR THF, UNION:
Union Representative
30
SCHEDULE"A"
WAGE ADMINISTRATION
Hourly Rate
The basic hourly structure is shown in Table 1, These rates are effective July 1st, 1994, for all employees hired after that date. Employees receiving rates higher than those shown for their work are listed in Table 3 and will continue to receive the higher rates listed in Table 4 subject to Article 15.
The Company will make changes to piece work rates by application of Article 15.03. As of signing of Agreement there are no piece work rates in plant.
Starting Rates
Staling rates shall be adjusted as follows:
• Start date to six months	-	20 %	less than Table 1, j ob	rate
- Six to twelve months	-	15%	less than Table 1, job	rate
■ twelve to eighteen months	-	10%	less than Table 1, job	rate
Rates shall be calculated to the nearest cent.
The Company has purchased the "Neutralizer"plan and has, with the Union, established a Pay Equity Committee, which has initiated a Pay Equity Program.
Upon the completion of the Sixty (60) day period, the Company and Union will meet to discuss any errors or omissions, of which they have been advised, in order to make the necessary changes to confirm Tables 1 and 3.
Wash Up Time
Rates which appear in Schedule "A”. Tables 1, 3 and 4 reflect the elimination of the wash up time effective April 21, 1996.
31
S
Rate is based full 8 hours of work per shift on thatjob. Employees training on any job will receive level 1 scale.
EFFECTIVE FEB. 1/96	EFFECTIVE FEB. 1/97
LEVEL 1-	$11.80	$12.10
Feeding, Take QBE, and Operators	Plating
of all finishing Equipment:	Embossing
Split Bundling - two persons Crust and Blue Trimmers Unbundling Hand Brushing Staking Helper Tradesman’s Helper
Brushing Machine	Any Dy End Work, not otherwise specified.
Stick Kiln or Kiln
Spray
RCM
Ironing
DRM
Measuring
Oiling
LEVEL 2 -
Side Measuring • Take off
Box Brusher
Staking
Toggling
Spot and Buffing
Setting Out
Feeder/LTD Drier
Feeder/Split Conveyor
EFFECTIVE FEB. 1/96 $12.80
EFFECTIVE FEB 1/97 $13.10
Baler
Vacuum Dryer
Side Bundling • one person
Wringer - TSate QBE
Splitter - Take Off
Any Wet End Work, not otherwise specified.
EFFECTIVE FEB. 1/96	EFFECTIVE FEB 1/97
LEVEL 3-	$13.97	$14.27
Forklift or Electric Truck Operator Hide House Operator Grease Operator Wringers
Side and Split Buffers
Blue Split conveyor Trimmer and Sorter
Shavers
Hide Trimmer
Crust Sorter
32
LEVEL 4
EFFECTIVE FEB. 1/96	EFFECTIVE FEB 1/97
$14.67	$14.97
Sample Work Final Sorters Beam House Operator Class A Finish Mixer
Lime hilling Blue or Colour Pickup Hide Hooking Fleshing
LEVEL 5
$15.42
1
EFFECTIVE FEB 1/97 $15.72
Tan Drum Operator	Blue Sorter - one person
Colour Drum Operator	Splitter Operator
MAINTENANCE	EFFECTIVE	FEB.	1/96
Licensed Tradesperson with:
-	Trade School Certificate (or 120 hours or more
of instruction)!-	$15.69
-	2 licenses	$17.74
-	3 or more licenses	$19.78
EFFECTIVE FEB 1/97
$15.99
$18.04
$20.08
EFFECTIVE FEB. 1/96 MISCELLANEOUS- $10.55
Watchman
Janitorial
Painting Yard Work
EFFECTIVE FEB 1/97 $10.85
33
SCHED.W-E "A" - TW %
(a)	The Company agrees to contribute two cents (2C) per hour, for all hours worked by bargaining unit employees, to the 'Uiibad Food & Commercial Workers Education and Training Fund". In determining hours worked and date of remittance the terns set out herein before in Article 18, (c) and (e)
. shall apply.
The remittance shall be made payable to "U.F.C.W. Local 175, Education and Training Fund" and shall be mailed to the Local Union Secretary-Treasurer at the address set out herein before in Article 24 as may be amended from time to time.
(b)	The Company agrees to pay 50% of cost of printing the new Collective Agreement.
34
SCHEDULE "A" - TABLE 3
RF.D CTRCT.F.D RATES PRIOR TO MAY 28, 1994
EMP* EMPLOYEE NAME JOB DESCRIPTION
& REGULAR ASSIGNMENT
EFFECTIVE FEB 1. 1996
006
271
944
92 598 433 157 420 96
93 41 91 611 150 831 67 318 64 48 355 169 61 124 553 066 579 613 300 575 398 201 297 551 546 597 058
Bozo Relic Zaim Asimofski Ha Chay Bach Adolfo Cabral Donald Campbell Joe Chodelka Chris Evangelou Tom Fragos Risto Gagovski Giuseppe Gregorino Vasilkj Hladun Risto Karlovski Stanley Kuliczkowski Dennis Lee Carlisle Maynard Wayne Morrison Elias Onoufriou Nicola Parente Domenico Ravaglia Panagiotis Sapanidis Vincenzo Savino Ricardo Capoena Sain Germano Pegios Jean Grosso Vincenzo Warriner Alex Rounis John Gagovski Mitre Boussoulas Tony Ivancic Vera Draganidis Sideris Spasevski Nikola Saveski Ivanka Asimofski Barija McRae Leonard Veli Zarif
Bunding
Presort/Lead Hand Shaver
Wringer Crew
Mechanic
Plating
Shaver
Plating
Wringer Crew
Split Feeder
Splitting Maintenance
RCM Op
Setting
Setting
Lime Puller
Electrician
Mechanic
Truck Op
Splitter
Season Op
Head Setter
Split Conveyor Sorter
Finish Feed/Take Off
Finish Feed/Take QBE
Frk/Electric Trk Op
Vacuum Dryer
LIC TRD ■ 3/3 + LIC
Vaccum Dryer
Vacuum Dryer
Spray
Grain Buffer Vacuum Dryer Final Sorter Final Sorter LIC TRD ■ 2 LICS Baler
$19.22
$15.59
$15.35
$15.48
$16.82
$14,47
$16.75
$14,47
$15.32
$16.48
$17.67
$14.43
$15.60
$15,60
$19.22
$17.84
$16.87
$15.97
$17.40
$14.88
$15.04
$14.85
35
EFFECTIVE FEB 1. 1997
$19.62
$15.99
$15.75
$15,88
$17.22
$14.87
$17.15
$14.87
$15.72
$16.88
$18.07
$14.83
$16.00
$16.00
$19,62
$18.24
$17.27
$16.37
$17.80
$15.28
$15.44
$15.25
EMP# EMPLOYEE NAME JOB DESCRIPTION
& REGULAR
ASSIGNMENT
FEWCTIVE FEB 1. 1996
135
293 316 212 122
294 306 319 006 323 148 304 123 121 799 812 824 841 936 001 067 999 500 007 Oil 920
922
923 925
928 951
929
957
958
961
962
963 966
Kiru Vasilis Duteher Milton Kouirnizis Stellios Wu Yuen Loon De Stefano Pasquale Raja Akram Fong Chi-Lo Li Mou Hsiang Relic Bozo Khan Masood Monti Lorenzo Kolevski Nikolce Li Kuo Wei Chung Li Chuan Raja Abbas Pimenta Manuel Estes Anastasios Raja Mohammed Ngan Foo Hoang The Hung Morrison Wayne Purba Gurmail S.
Ku Chih Hsin Truong A-Duong Liao Ko Hugh Khai See So Kwok Kuen Momodou Nyan Suwareh Saikou Chu Wan Sheung Sillar Sainey Duffet Albert Huang Ying Sheng Rasja Naeem Chen Kuo An Wood Jeffrey Hau Due Tu Kostovski Krste
Vacuum Dryer Toggling Vacuum Dryer Grain Buffer Colour Drum Oper CL A Finish Mixer Vaccuum Dryer Colour Drum Oper Lime Pulling Tan Drum Oper Vacuum Dryer Beam House Oper Tan Drum Oper Grain Buffer RCM
Beam House Oper Setting Out Tan Drum Oper Blue Sorter Plating Electrician Hide House Oper Shaver Grain Buffer staking staking RCM
Hide Fleshing Finish Feed/Take Off Finish Feed/Take Off Blue & Colour Pick Up Shaver staking Qain Buffer Colour Drum Oper Forklift/Elee Trk Oper Setting Out Setting Out
36
EFFECTIVE
FEB 1. 1997
EMP# EMPLOYEE NAME JOB DESCRIPTION
& REGULAR	EFFECTtyF.
ASSIGNMENT	FEB I,
968
657
627
628 629 636
638 656 649 662
663
664 666
667
668
639 671
Stanojcic Slobodan Stavreski Naumce Hamad Fatmeh Change Chih Liang Myjak Peter Chen Huai-Chang Saveska Marica Miclat V, Antonio Kamara Karim Li Uzu Hsiung Miclat M, Dominic Chiu Kuo Hsiang Miclat M, Viressa Koleyski Bogdanka Zhong Dai Ling Lue Rickardo Fleishman Gregory
Setting Out Hide Fleshing Measuring Equip Vacuum Dryer Blue & Colour Pick Up Finish Feed/Take CEE final Sorter Plating Hide Hooking ROM
Hide Hooking Plating Bundling Crust Trimmer Spray
Feeder/LTD Dryer Finish Feed/Take OIF
37
EFFECTIVE
FEB 1. 1997
SCHEDULE "A" • TABLE 4 (RED CIRCLED RATE CATEGORIES)
EFFECTIVE FEB. 1/95 EFFECTIVE FEB. 1/97 Watchmen	$12.69	$13.09
LEVEL "A"	$14.15	$14.55
All light Dy End duties including:
Feeding and Take Off of all Finishing,
Spray
RCM
Ironing
DRM
Measuring Equipment
Bundling
Gauging
Split Trimmers Blue/Crust
Sample Work
Spray and RCM Operators
Oiling Operators
LEVEL "B"	$14.43	$14.83
Brushing Machine Feed and Take Off;
Box Brusher Staking Stick Kiln Toggling
Spot and Back Buffing Plating Setting Out Feeder/LTD Drier Feeder/Split Conveyor
38
EFFECTIVE FEB. 1/96
LEVEL "C"-	*14.70
Fork Lift or Electric Truck Operator Hide House Operator Grease Operator Baler
Embossing Machine Feeders Vacuum Dryer Operators Wringers
Grain Buffers
Blue Split Conveyor Trimmer and Sorter
LEVEL "D"	*14.95
Final Sorters Shavers
Embossing Machine Operator Beam House operator Class A Finish Mixer
LEVEL "E".	*15.55
Tan Drum Operators
Colour Drum Operators
Whole Hide Fleshing Hide Hooking
Lime Pulling
Blue and Colour Pick Up
Blue Sorter
Splitter
39
EFFECTIVE FEB. 1/97 *15.10
$15.35
$15.95
EFFECTIVE FEB. 1/96	EFFECTIVE FEB. 1/97
Maintenance
Unlicensed Tradesperson	$14.93	$15.33
Licensed Tradesperson with:
-	Trade School Certificate
or 120 hours or mote of	instruction	$16.66	$17.06
-	2 licenses	$17.84	$18.24
-	3 or more licenses	$19.88	$20.28
New jobs will be added to the correct level
40
SCHEDULE "B"
The following staff are covered by Article 2,02, and are permitted to perform the work described below, based on the maxinun hours per day.
3 hrs.	Kalco Kalcovski:
checking leather, slot test; trimming, moving of skids, splitting, and shaving; and general maintenance, plant improvements and cleaning,
3 hrs.	Leeland McGregor
moving tables of leather with electric truck; moving wet leather/horses to and fern drying areas, checking, sorting and trimming leather; sample drying, testing machinery & process, start/stop machinery, fork lift operator.
3 hrs.	Bobby Patel;
moving leather with electric truck; may operate,. feed, or take c£f from any finishing equipment; colour mixer and matcher,
3 hrs.	Richard Dziemianko:
move leather with electric truck, colour mixing, May operate, feed, or take c£f fcrnany finishing equipment.
8 hrs.	Louis Cabral;
sample finishing, colour mixing, may operate, feed, or take cff from any finishing equipment.
8 hrs.	SLmmie Wong:
colour matching, sample spraying, lab testing, may operate any finishing equipment.
3 hrs.	Therold Lue:
maintenance or repairs of any nature.
2 hrs.	Harvey Wood:
forklift driving; shipping and receiving; maintenance and repairs of any nature.
8 hrs.	Charles Behiok;
dye matching, colour drum operating.
8 hrs.	Tommy Skarjak:
dye matching, colour drum operating.
41
8 hrs,	German Alabaszowski:
watchman, 4 hours: any type of production work.
3 hrs,	Paul Novisedlak;
Moving tables of leather with electric truck; move wet lesther/horses to and from drying areas; checking, sorting and trimning leather; sample drying, testing machinery and process; start/stop machinery; fork lift operator.
1.	The parties agree that the staff may perform bargaining unit work for the purpose of a) instruction, b) introduction and/or testing of new procedures or equipment, c) in the case of an emergency, or d) when no bargaining unit employee is available who has the skills required for the job.
2.	Staff will be permitted to do bargaining unit work other thai described above by irutual consent of the Union and Company, both parties acting reasonably.
42
SCHEDULE "C
The parties hereto agree that once the Pay Equity Plan is in place, under the Pay Equity Act of Crt3do,the resultant Benchmark Job points and job questionnaires will be a basis for future re-evaluation of the jobs using the NEUTRALIZER Evaluation Plan.
All new bargaining unit jobs created by the Company will be evaluated using the NEUTRALIZER.
Any disputes arising as a result of such Post Pay Equity evaluations or reevaluations which arenot settled by the grievanceprocedure will be submitted to Arbitration as provided herein before.
43
At the time of printing, changes to the Workers’ Compensation Act, Bill 165 is before the Legislature.
There are some significant changes in Bill 165 that will strengthenthe rights of injuredworkers to returnto their pre-accident work, increases to older injured workers’ pension of $200.00 per month. A Bi-partite Board of Directors and a Royal Commission will undertake an inquiry into the Workers’ Compensation System, and report back to the Minister cf Labour by June 30,1996.
UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE
Unemployment Insurance is not welfare. It is a system of providing partial income replacement for people who have an interruption of earnings. Both you and your employer pay weekly premiums to the Unemployment Insurance Commission and you are entitledto benefits if you meet certain eligibility requirements. You should apply for U.l. benefits if you fall into one of the following categories.
Laid off — If you are out of work due to lay-off and you have worked 20 weeks during the last 52 weeks, you are eligible for benefits. If you worked between 14 and 19 weeks, you may be eligible and should file a claim. There is a two-week waiting period, benefits will start the third week and continue upto 50 weeks. Your maximum benefits may be less than 50 weeks, depending on a number of factors.
Discharged or Quit— No regular benefits are paid to those workers who quit a job without just cause or who are fired for misconduct. You may appeal a disqualification. Contact your Union, if you wish assistance with your appeal.
Benefit Rate
Benefits are paid at fifty seven percent (57%) of the average weekly insurable earnings in the qualifying weeks, fifty percent (50%) for those who refuse suitable work or job.
Weekly benefit is calculated on the last twenty (20) weeks of insurable employment in the qualifying period or ten to nineteen (10-19) if less than twenty (20).
Benefits ae taxable, and the 1994 maximum benefit, is four hundred and forty-five ($445.00) weekly.
Qualifying Conditions
The number of qualifying weeks are according to the rates of employment in the respective economic region.
Regular Benefits___________________________
Table 1____________________________________
Entrance requirements______________________
Regional rate cf	Weeks of insurable
unemployment	employment in the
aualifvina oeriod
I	6% and under	20 weeks	i
1	over 6% to 7%	19 weeks	I
1	over 7% to 8%	18 weeks	I
1	over 8% to 9%	17 weeks	I
1	over 9% to 10%	16 weeks	I
1	over 10% to 11%	15 weeks	I
1	over 11% to 12%	14 weeks	I
1	over 12% to 13%	13 weeks	I
1	over 13% to 14%	12 weeks	i
	over 14% to 15%	11 weeks	I
	over 15%	10 weeks	
Sickness
You must have worked at least fifteen (15) weeks during the last fifty-two (52), to qualify, and benefits will be paid for a maximum of fifteen (15) weeks. Medical reports are necessary to obtain Unemploymentlnsurance Sick Benefits.
Maternity Benefits
Up to fifteen (15) weeks of maternity benefits are payable, if, the natural mother has twenty (20) weeks of insurable employment A medical certificate is required, showing the anticipated date of birth. Benefits are payable, eight (8) weeks before expected confinement and this period ends seventeen (17) weeks afterwards.
The maximum you can collect is fifteen (15) weeks.
Parental Benefits
Ten (10) weeks of parental benefits may be received by the adoptive or natural parents, either the mother or father, or shared between them as they deem appropriate.
Parental benefits may be extended to five (5) more weeks in cases where the child is six months of age or older when the child arrives home, and the child suffers from a physical, psychological or emotional condition. These benefits can also be shared by both parents.
What you need to apply for U.i. benefits:
•	A Record of Employment from the company. You must fill out an application for benefits immediately, and you may hand in the Record of Employment later. If you have problems obtaining it, inform your local Canada Employment and Immigration Centre (CEIC).
•	An application for benefits, Obtainable at CEIC offices.
•	A doctor’s report for sickness or maternity benefits, these forms are also obtainable at CEIC offices.
If you have any questions or problems with U.I.C. call your local CEIC office. If your problems continue, contact the Union Office.
NORTHERN REGION
Dan Qniehuk
Director
REGIONAL OFFICE:
135 N. Syndicate, Suite 400, Thunder Bay, Ont. P7C 3V3 Phone: (807)623-4551 Fax: (807)623-6938 (800) 465-6932
EASTERN REGION
John Fuller
Director
Warren Kennedy Union Representative
Dan Lacroix
Union Representative
Wendy Zych
Union Representative
REGIONAL OFFICE:
20 Hamilton Ave. North, Ottawa, Ont. K1Y1B6 Phone: (613) 725-2154 Fax: (613} 725-2328 (800) 267-5295
SOUTHWEST REGION
Bud Adam
Director
Wendy Absolom Susan Bayne Tim Oribine
Union Representative Union Representative Union Representative
A. 6. Sherman Larry Bain Richard Woodruff
Union Representative Union Representative Union Representative
REGIONAL OFFICE:
124 Sydney St. South, Kitchener, Ont. N2G 3V2 Phone: (519) 744-5231 Fax: (519) 744-8357 (800)265-6345
CENTRAL AND SOUTH-CENTRAL REGIONS
Jim Hastings
Director
Beg Baaghan
Union Representative
Kathie Chrysler
Union Representative
Sharon Gall	Jerry Clifford
Union Representative	Union Representative
REGIONAL OFFICE;
2200 Argentia Road Mississauga, Ontario L5N 2K7 Phone: (905) 821-8329	Fax}905) 821-7144
Toll-free outside Metro Toronto (800) 565-8329
CENTRAL REGION
Harry Sutton
Union Representative
Teresa Suppa-Magee
Union Representative
Don Morin
Union Representative
Jim Hobbs
Union Representative
REGIONAL OFFICE:
2200 Argentia Road Mississauga, Ontario L5N 2K7 Phone: (905)821-8329 Fax (905)821-7144 Toll-free outside Metro Toronto (800) 565-8329
ADMINISTRATION
(905} 821*8329	(800) 585-8329
Jim Andress
Director
Jay Nair
Health, Office, Professional and Education (H.O.P.E) Sector Co-ordinator
Dave Killitam
Political Action, Commuincations and Education Coordinator
ORGANIZING TEAM
(905) 821-8329	(800) 565 8329
Michael Quden
Richard Wauhkonen
Organizer
BENEFIT DEPARTMENT
(905) 821-8329	(800) 565-8329
Herb MacDonald
Benefits Co-ordinator
Benefits Departmeo
TECHNICAL OPERATIONS
(905) 821-8329	(800) 565-8329
Robert Linton
Communications Liaison
LEGAL COUNSEL
(905) 821-8329	(800) 585-8329
Ivin Kucey
:gal Counsel	Legal Counsel