Final Draft
April 27, 2001
AGREEMENT
BROWN SHOE COMPANY OF CANADA,LTD.
PERTH, ONTARIO (Hereinafter called the "Company")
OF THE FIRST PART
U.F.C.W TEXTILE & GARMENT COUNCIL LOCAL 365 (Hereinafter called "Union")
OF THE SECONDPART 2000-2002
In accordance with the right of the employees to bargain and to be represented collectively, the parties hereto do agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
PURPOSE OF AGREEMENT
1:01	The general purpose of the Agreement is to maintain the favorable relations existing
between the Company and the employees by setting forth a basic understanding relative to hours of work, rates of pay, and general working conditions.
ARTICLE II RECOGNITION
2:01 The Company recognizes the Union as the sole collective bargaining agency for all its employees employ edin its plant at Kith, save-except Assistant Foremen, Fitting Floor Ladies, persons above the rank of Assistant Foremen, Fitting Floor Lady and Commissary and record clerks and persons regularly employed for not more than twenty-four (24) hours per week, and office and sales staff.
1
m:\legil\rxh\pcrth-canada-agmt-red.doc
oo? ?</ M)
The Company will provide the Union on Monday with a weekly list naming part time employees and showing hours worked during the preceding week.
2;02 As a condition of employment,the Company will deduct from each weekly pay due to each employee, while this Agreement is in effect, an amount equivalentto the regular weekly Union dues (yearly amount spread over 52 weeks) and remit the amounts so deducted to the Quebec office of the Union, by check payable to the U.F.C.W. Textile and Garment Council, on or before the fifteenth (15th) day of the month following the month in which the deductions were made.
2:03 New employees will have Union dues deducted from the first week of employment and must sign an authorization card authorizing the Company to deduct weekly dues and remit the moneys so deducted in accordance with the provisions of the above paragraph. The authorization cards shall be supplied by the Company who will prescribe the form. The deductions will commence at the next regular date of dues deductions.
2:04 The Company shall at the time of making each remittance to the Ontario office of the Council of United Textile Workers of AmericaU.F.C.W., specify the employees from whose pay such deductions were made; a copy of this list is to be supplied to the Financial Secretary of the Local.
ARTICLE III
RESERVATION OF MANAGEMENTFUNCTIONS 3:01 The management and the direction of the working force, including the right to hire, promote, demote, reprimand, suspend,transfer, or discharge for proper cause, and the right to relieve employees film duty because of lack of work or otherproper reasons is vested in the Company provided, however, that this shall not be done in a manner contrary to the provisions of the Agreement.
m:\Iegal\rxh\perth-CBn ada-agmt-rcd.doc
2
3:02	The Company shall have the soleright to decide the processes and methods of manufacture,
types of machinery and equipmentto be used, types and quantitiesof shoesto be made, quality of material and workmanship required, sellingprices of products, methods of selling and distributing products, and personnel required in supervisory,clerical and other positions not included in the bargaining unit; provided, however, that this shall not be done in a manner contrary to the provisions of the Agreement.
3:03 Anyone that has not been designated as a homeworker will not be allowed to take work home from the factory.
Should an operator feel that she has been deprived of work in the morning because of work being sent out of the factory to a homeworker, the Company and Union shall meet to discuss a remedy. If the operator has, in fact, been deprived of work, she shall be made whole for the resulting loss of straighttime wages. In this regard the Company agreesto limit the number of
homeworkersto six, and will advise the Union, in letter form, the names ofthose individuals designatedto be homeworkers.
ARTICLE IV PROHIBITION
4:01 Neitherparty shall interfere with the rightsofthe employeestobecomemembersofthe Union or to refrain from becoming members of the Union. Neither party will permit its agents or members or other persons within its control to discriminate against, interfere with, restrain or coerce any employee on account of membership or non-membershipin the Union.
4:02	The Union agrees that there will be no solicitationfor membership, collection of dues; or
any other Union activity on'the premises of the Company during any employee's working hours without written authorizationffom the Company, except as otherwise provided for in this .Agreement.
m:\legal\rxh\perth-canada-agmt-red.doo
3
ARTICLE V
NO STRIKES OR LOCKOUTS
5:01 There shall be no lockout by the Company nor stoppage of nor interference with work by members of the Union during the term ofthis Agreement.
5:02 With respect to the following, it is understood and agreed by both parties that all disputes, the subject matter of which is within the purview of this Agreement, shall be handled in accordance with the grievance and arbitration procedures as outlined in the following Sections of this Agreement without recourse to strike or lockout.
ARTICLE VI
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
6:01 The Company acknowledges the right of the Union to appoint or otherwise select a reasonable number of Stewards to assist employees in presenting their grievancesto the representatives of the Company, and the Union agrees that they shall, at all times, keep the Company supplied with a list of its Stewardsand Officers.
6:02 (a) The following departments or groups of departments shall be represented by the number of Stewards so designated, who shall be employees of the department or group of departments eachrepresents:
Cutting	-1	Finishing and Sole Stock	-1
Fitting	-2	Packing	-1
Lasting	-1	Warehouses	-2
/
Final Draft April 27, 2001
AGREEMENT
BROWN SHOE COMPANY OF CANADA, LTD. PERTH, ONTARIO (Hereinafter called the "Company")
OF THE FIRST PART
6:03	Between the aggrieved employee, Department Steward and the Foreman of the department
involved. The decision of the Foreman shall be stated in writing on the grievanceform. If the grievance discussed with the foreman is not settledwithin48 hours, it shall be carried to the next step of the grievanceprocedure within three (3) days.
6:05 Between the Grievance Committee (which shall be composed of not more than three (3) employees) and the Superintendentwho shall be required to make answer to any grievanceproperly submitted to him within (3) days. Failing to obtain settlementat this stage, the Union shall, within five (5) days, carry the grievanceto the next step in the grievanceprocedure.
6:06 Between the Grievance Committee and the General Manager or someone designated by whose decision shall be rendered in writing within five (5) working days. A representative of the International Union may be present if requested by the Company or Union.
6:07 Disposition of grievances resulting from agreement between the Company and the Union shall be final and binding on the Company, the Union, the employee or employees concerned.
6:08	Saturdays, Sundaysand statutory holidays will not be counted in determiningthe time
within which any action is to be taken or completed in the grievance or arbitrationprocedures. Any and all time limits fixed by this Article and Article VII may be extended by mutual agreement.
6:09 A claim by a permanent employeethat he has been unjustly discharged shall be treated as, a grievance if a written statementof such grievance is lodged with the Company within five (5) working days followingwritten notice to the Union of such discharge.
6:10 It is clearly understood that stewards and other union officers will not absent
themselves from their regular duties without notifying their respectiveforemanto allowforthe
most suitablearrangement within the shift hours and work requirements.Such officers and stewards
shall not absent themselves from their work unreasonably in order to deal with grievances of
5
ni:\legal\rxh\perth-canada-agmt-red.doc
employees.
6.11	If a grievance is not appealed to the next step within the specified time limit or any agreed extensionthereof, it shall be considered settled on the basis of the Company's last answer.
If the Company does not answer an appeal of a grievance within .the specified time limits, the Union may elect to treat the grievance as denied at that step and immediately appeal the grievanceto the next step, after discussing such intended action with the Factory Superintendent.
6.12	Grievance meetings between the Union and the Company shall be held during working hours atatime agreed between the parties, but inno case shall be held laterthan2:30 p.m, on the day in question.
ARTICLE VII ARBITRATION
7:01 In the event any dispute covered by this Agreement cannot be settledthrough the regular grievanceprocedure, eitherparty may request that it be submitted to arbitration. Suchrequest shall be submitted in writing to the other party and shall state the nature and particulars of the grievance in question. The Arbitrator shall have no authority to alter, modify or amend any provision of this Agreement or to add to or subtract therefrom. The decision of the Arbitrator shall be final and binding upon all parties Concerned. Each of the parties hereto will equally bear the cost of the Arbitrator.
7:02 During the final stage of the grievance procedure, includingarbitration,the conferringparties may have the assistance of the employee or employees concerned and any necessary witnesses and records will be made availableto the Grievance committeeand/ or Arbitrator, and all reasonable arrangementswill be made to permit the conferringparties to have access to the plant to view the disputed operations.
m:MegaI\rxh\perth-canada-agmt-red.doc
6
ARTICLE VIII
SENIORITY AND PROMOTION
g:01 Seniority as used in the Agreement shall refer to length of continuous service since the last date of employment, that date shall be shown on the employment card. The Warehouse and Factory locations will be recognized as separate entities when considering seniority and bidding rights,
8:02 An employee will be considered on probation and will not obtainFactory Seniority rights until after he has worked three continuous months or a total of (60) sixty days worked accumulated within a period of twelve (12)calendarmonths, then he will be shown on the seniority list as having seniority commencing three months immediately prior to the date he completed his probationary period.
8:03 (a) In the event it may become necessary to reduce the number of employees on ajob, the employee on thej ob with the least] ob seniority according to the seniority list will be subject to layoff. The employee subject to said layoff and who has completed the probationary period will have the right to first, replace any probationary employee, or if none, an employee with the least seniority on ajob within his department provided the employee concerned has the necessary ability to perform the work. Job seniority means the total length of time worked on thejob.
8:03 (b) In the event it may become necessary to reduce the number of employees on aj ob for more than (5) five working days, the employee on thejob with the leastjob seniority will be subject to a layoff. The employee subject to said layoff who cannot be retained at work by virtue of the provision of paragraph (a) has the right to first replace any probationary employee or, if none, an employee with the least seniority on ajob in another departmentprovided the employee concemedhas completed the probationary period inthepresent department and canperformthe work within a maximum delay of fifteen (15) working days.
m:\Iegal\rxh\perth-canada-agmt-red.doc
7
8:03 (c) The following procedure will apply in recalling employees to work following a layoff:
(1)	Laid-off employees will be recalled to work (and must report within five working days) in the reverse order from their layoffs in the respective departments and onthejob which they held prior to the layoff.
(2)	Laid-off employees who are recalled to a department other than the one in which they had worked are under no obligationto accept such recall.
(3)	Transferredor displaced employees shall return to their originaljob when thejob is again restarted if such occurs within one year and allow an employee to return to his originaljob if it is restored after one year if he chooses to do so.
If at any time a vacancy occurs within a department and it is not fdled as the result of bids in accordance with, this Agreement, thejob shall be offered to the oldest employee in point of factory seniority.
8:04 Employees shall be promoted to higher rated j obs outside the bargaining unit wherever practicable. In promotions, ability to perform the work and to advance in responsibility being relatively equal, seniority shall govern.
8:05 (a) Notice of any layoff and/ or vacancy within the factory shall be posted on the Department and Main bulletin board in the factory. Notice of any vacancy within the warehouse will be posted on the department and main bulletin board in the warehouse. A copy of these postings shall be given to the designated agent ofthe Union and the Company shall consultwith the Union before fdlingthe vacancy. Notice of layoff and/ or vacancy will be posted for three (3) working days.
The vacancy shall be fdled by an employee on a lower rated job who fulfils the requirements
of section8:04, The Company and the Union may, by mutual consent, waive the above mentioned
8
m:\legal\rxh\perth-canada-agmt-red.doc
restriction in cases where an individual employee who became of advanced age or because of a seriouspermanent disability, including medically diagnosed stress which interferes with his satisfactorily performing his job may be permitted to bid to a lowerratedjob not more than once.
8:05 (b) Jobs shall be filled, first firm within the department. A successful bidder on aj ob vacancy within his/her department shall be permitted a (40) forty hour trial period in which to decide whether he/she wishes to remain onthe newjob. If he/she fails to express desireto return to hisher formerj ob within the time specified, he/she shall not be permitted to do so at a subsequent date unless she/he is laid off of work onthe newjob as a result of his/her lack of seniority there on. If the vacancy is not filled, an employee with (2) two or more years of seniority within his/her own department may bid to the vacancy in another departmentand shall be paid at his average for a forty (40) hour trial period on saidjob, and if he does remainhe/she will be paid at hisher average for a second (40) forty hours.
An employeewill be paid at (75) seventy five percent of hisher average during the (40) forty hour trial period if he rejects the job bidding inside or outside the department.
8:05 (c) An employeewho rejects a bid in hisher own department is prohibited from bidding for the following six months, if the rejection occurs after the (40) forty hour trial period has begun.
An employeewho rejectsajob bid availablein another department is prohibited from bidding for the following six months, if the rejection occurs after the (40) forty hour trial period has begun.
8:05 (d) The trial period shallnot apply to employee bidding back tojobs which they have previously held except that a 40 hour trial only Will be applicableto employees bidding, inside or outsidetheir department, on a job posted as a combinationjob if they have not previously performed one ofthe combined operations. Note: The twenty five (25) percent of average rejection
9
m:\legal\rxh\perth-canada-agmt-red.doc
penalty will also apply in this case.
8:05 (e) • A successful bidder on ajob vacancy shall be assigned to said job within two (2) weeks following the closing of the bid unless it is agreed by the Company and the Union that to do so would seriously impair the production of the factory.
8:05 (f) An hourly rated production employee will be able to bid on an incentivejob, if the
(4)	four week line average is higher than the averagepaid on the hourly ratedjob.
8:05 (g) All notices ofj ob vacancies shall showthe optimum rate on thejob, the line average in cases of piece work j obs and the hourly rate in cases of hourly paidj obs,
8:05 (h) Where the Company combines more than onejob, the senior employee affected will be entitled to the combined job, subjectto a willingness and ability to perform the work within a maximum delay of fifteen.( 15)vcakdrg days. "Performthe work" means earning base rate.
8:06 Under no circumstances shall the company in filling-a vacancy on onej ob be required through the provisions ofthis Section to promote more than (2) two employees, the one to fill the j ob first vacated and the other to fill the vacancy left by the replacement of the firstjob.
8:07	Senioritylists showing each employee's status shall be established. These lists shall be brought up to date by
semiannual revisions. Copies of these lists are to be lodged with the Union and posted on the plant bulletin board.
8:08 An employee shall lose all seniority rights if he:
a)	Voluntarily quits the employ of the Company
b)	Is discharged for cause
c)	Is laid off and is not re-employed for a period of twenty four (24) months. Notwithstanding the foregoing, employees with less than nine (9) months seniority who have
10
m:\legal\rxh\perth-canada-agmt-rcd.doc
completed the probationary period shall lose all seniorityrights if not recalled within nine
(9) months.
d)	Fails to return to work within (5) five days after mailing by the Company via registered mail of a notice to return to work.
e)	Overstays a leave of absence unless extended by mutual consent of the Company and the
Union.
f)	Continues in a Supervisoryor SupervisoryTrainee position for more than (60) sixty calendar days.
8:09 Any notice sent by the Company to an employee's last address on the Company records shall be sufficient and effectivenotice.
8:10	Promotionsto supervisory positions shall not be subjecttothe provisions of this agreement.
8:11 A supervisoror supervisory trainee will retain his seniorityrights for a period of (60) sixty calendar days from the date of his first promotion only. If he elects to give up his promotion during that period, hemay exercisehis seniorityto anyjob to whichhis seniority entities him. If he failsto exercise his seniority during that period, his senioritywill be forfeited.
A supervisoror Supervisory trainee who exercises his seniority in this manner must remit dues for
the period of his promotion.
ARTICLE IX Leave of Absence
9:01 The Company will grant leave of absence without pay to a delegated Union member or members to attend Union conventions or conferences, and it is agreed by the Union that in selecting the member or members every effort will be made to avoid affectingthe production of the plant, and the time so requested will be kept to a minimum.
m:\legalVxh\perth-canada-agmt-rcd.doc
11
9:02 A leave of absence will be granted to any employee whenever it is mutually agreed by the Company and Union same is warranted by the circumstances. Request for a leave of absence must be in writing and addressed to the Superintendent, with the reason and duration clearly stated, and reply will be given in writing. Any leave of absence granted by the Company to such employee shall be limited to (3) three months with provisions made for the return to his regularjob when the leave of absence expires.
Employees shall not suffer a loss of seniority because of absence due to certified illness or accident for aperiod equivalentto length of his/her seniority at the time ofthe beginning ofthe leave of absence to a maximum of (24) twenty four months, and shall be returned to their former jobs, providing their seniority is greater than those currently on the job, and they are able to perform such work as is available. The Company shall be notified in writing at least (2) two weeks in advance of the intended date of return and such notification must be accompanied by a medical certificationthat the employees are able to return to theirjobs,
9:03	If any employee overstaystheir leave of absence they are presumed to have severed
employment with the Company unless they can give satisfactory explanation for their inability to return to work on the expiration date of their leave of absence.
9:04 A female employee must apply for and be granted a leave of absence after (5) five months ofpregnancy based on medical certification. Within (30) thirty days after the childbirth she shall notify her Foreman of her intention of returning to work. Under any circumstances she must return topreviousjob in accordance with the Employment Standards Act.
9:05 If an employee is unable to report for work owing to sickness, accident or other legitimate reason they shall notify the Company at the start of their shift unless they have a legitimate reason for failing to notify their supervisor.
m:\IegaI\rxh\perth-canada-Egmt-red.doc
12
9:06 In case of death in the immediate family (asdefined) employees will be allowed the necessary time off not to exceed a total of (24) twenty four scheduled working hours and shall be paid therefore at their regular hourly average exclusive of overtime. An employee may, where necessary, take additional time at their own expense.
No such allowance shall be paid for any period which occurs while an employee is on a personal or medical leave of absence or for any time for which the employee receives vacation or holiday benefits. In this article the term, "member of an employee family", means a husband, wife, • child, parent, brother, sister, mother and father in law, grandparents, grandparents of spouse, and grandchildren. Also, common law spouses, if the individualshaveco-habitated fora minimum of one year, will be recognized as a member of the immediate family. Parent in this clause includes natural parents or foster parents sincethe employees childhood or stepparents.
"Child includes an adopted child, a child from a commonlawrelationship and a foster child or a step child, if such foster or step child has resided with the employee continuously for at least (2) two years".
For purposes ofthis article only, "employee" shall includeany employeewho has been in the continuous service of the Company for (30) thirty days.
9:07 Employees called forjury service shall be paid by the Company whatever sum, if any, in addition to the money they receive for such serviceswhich is necessary to prevent loss of an average days earnings. Employees are expected to work full time when not actually in such services.
9:08 An employeerequired to act as pallbearer shall be allowed the necessary time off, without pay either in the forenoon or afternoon.
m:\legal\rxh\perth-canada-agmt-red.doc
13
9:09	In the event of the death of an employee's sister-in-lawor brother-in-lawor the death of the
employee's spouse's sister-in-law,brother-in-law, the employee shall receive eight (8) hours pay at his / her hourly average. "Employee" shall be defined as in section 9:05. Employee shall be allowed the necessary time off.
ARTICLE X Bulletin Boards
10:01 The Company will provide bulletin boards in mutually satisfactory locationsthroughout the plant which are available for the Union in posting notices of Union activities. All such notices must be signed by the proper officers of the Union and submitted to an authorized official of the Company for approval before posting.
ARTICLE XI Hours of Work
11:01 The standard hours of work per week shall be eight hours per day, Monday through Friday inclusive. Thenormal startingand quittingtimes for employees will be7:00 A.M.to 12:00 noon and 12:30 P.M. to 3:30 P.M. Break schedulewill be as follows: Morning Breaks will be Fitting Department9:00 to 9:15 a.m, Packing and Cutting Departments 9:15 to 9:30 a.m., and Lasting, Finishing and StockFitting Departments, 9:30 to 9:45 a.m. Afternoon Breaks will be Fitting Department2:00 to 2:15 p.m., Lasting, Finishing and StockFitting Departments 2:15 to2:30p,m. andPackingand Cutting Departments 2:30 to 2:45 p.m, Any changes in these startingand quitting times for specific employees is subject to agreement between the Company and the Union.
ARTICLE XII Overtime
12:01 The rate of pay for overtime shall be time and one half the hourly rate in the case of hourly rated employees, and time and one the average hourly earnings, excluding overtime and shift premiums, in the case of piece workers.
m:\Iegal\rxh\perth-canada-agmt-red.doc
14
12:02 Overtime will be paid for all hours worked in excess of the standardhours in any day as stated in Section 11:01, as well as work performed before the regular starting time or after the regular quitting time of the department, and for any work performed on Saturdays, and double time will be paid for any work performed on Sunday, unless Saturdayand Sunday constitutes part of the normal work week, in which case overtimewill be paid for any work performed on the regular assigned days of rest.
12:03 Overtime will be paid for any work performed on any of the following holidays: New Year's Day, Good Friday, Victoria Day, Dominion Day, Labour Day, ThanksgivingDay, Christmas Day, 10th paid holiday, and with the day before or the day after Christmas as decided by the employees under section 14:01 and the Civic Holiday in August. This will be in additionto Holiday pay.
12:04 Overtime shall be on a voluntary basis with the exception of one hour on any standard work day Monday through Thursday inclusive.
Any employee, upon written notificationto the Company before 9:00 a.m. of that day, will be allowed to miss overtime on that day for personal reasons; provided that such a miss of overtime will be limited to a maximum of one (1) occasionper month and (5) five occasions per calendar year, and provided further that the Company shall not schedulemandatory overtime on the first and third Wednesday of each month.
Shouldthe Company have notified employees of intent to work overtime on any regular work day it may cancel such overtime by giving notice not later than (2) two hours before the regular quitting time for such employees.Failure to give such notice of cancellationswithin the specified time shall entitle the employees involved to (1/4) one quarter hour wage at straight time.
(b) An employee requested to work the one hour overtime, and who actually commences that overtime will be guaranteed the full hour.
15
m:\legal\rxh\perth-canada-agmt-red.doc
With regard to giving notification to employees before noon to work overtime, it is understood that supervisorswill not give notice to work overtime on a daily basis in order to protect themselves due to the notice deadline.
12:05 The Company agrees that the overtimewill not be scheduled any night that a Union membership meeting is scheduled, provided the Factory Superintendent is supplied with a schedule of dates for such meetings and that he/ she is advised by noon of the preceding day if there are any changes in the dates on which the meetings are called, or of any emergency meeting.
ARTICLEXIII
Reporting and Time Allowance
13:01 Any employee who reports forwork as usual and atthe regular startingtime, namely 7:00 am. and is sent home because no work is available will be paid the equivalent of four (4) hours work at their regular rate of earnings. An employee called for an afternoon work assignment starting at 12:30 p,m., will be guaranteed pay equivalentto three (3) hours at his/her regular rate of earnings.
The above does not apply if they are notified by the Company not to report to work either orally or by notice posted on the bulletin board no later than the forepart of the previous shift.
13:02 If an emergency arises and an employee is called back to work outside of the standard working hours without previous notice, he/ she shall be paid at a minimum guarantee of (4) four hours at time and one half of their regular rate.
m:\lcgal\rxh\perth-canada-agmt-rcd.doc
16
ARTICLE XIV
Vacations and StatutoryHolidays
14:01 The Company will pay to all employeeswho have been in the continuousemploy of the Company for (30) tLnzfcy days an amount equal to (8) eight hours pay for the following ft?) nine designated holidays: New Year's Day, Good Friday, Victoria Day, Dominion Day, Labour Day, ThanksgivingDay, ChristmasDay, August Civic Holiday, and the day before or the day after Ondsbias.Decision concerning selection of either day shall be given to the Company by the Union no later than December 1st Day workers will be paid a sum equal to (8) eighthours pay, attheir hourly piece work average rate of pay during the preceding (4) four weeks, overtime excluded, or during such fraction of the said period as the employee shall have been in the employ of the Company.
The tenth (10th) paid holiday (November 11th) if falling on a Saturday or Sunday, shall be taken on the preceding Friday, otherwise it shall be observed on the day it falls.
An Employeetemporarily laid off or on a medical personal leave of absence at the time a holiday occurs shall be paid said holiday benefits providing he/ she worked within the (30) thirty calendar days subsequentto the holiday. An employeeabsent from work on the day before or the day after the holiday for personal reasons must have been excused by the Foreman or sufferingfrom bona fide illness in order to be eligible for holiday benefits.
If any of the (10) ten statutoryholidays referred to occur during the plant shutdown for the
regular vacation period as specified in paragraph 14:02, employeeswho work their full regular shift
on the work day immediatelypreceding and their full regular shift on the work day immediately
followingthe vacation period will be paid for the said statutory holiday in addition to their vacation
17
m:\legal\rxh\perth-canada-agmt-red.doc
14:02 The Company shall grant all employees subject to the Agreement a vacation period and may close the plant or any part of the operationfor that purpose at a time to be mutually agreed upon by the Company and the Union, such agreementto be arrived at during the month of March each year.
14:03 The basis ofpayment for vacation will be as follows for employeeshaving the period of service shown below at the time ofthe factory vacation closing:
lessthan 3 years	4.5%
3 less than 8 years	6.5%
8 lessthan 12years	7.0%
12 lessthan 15 years	7.5%
15 less than 20 years	9.0%
20 years and over	9.5%
Employees having ten (warehouse five) or more years service, as of the annual summer vacation closing will be entitled to an additional five days time-off. Three of the additional days off will be utilized in conjunctionwith Christmas Day and Boxing Day to allow for five days off at Christmas: The three days will commencethe day followingthe day Boxing Day is observed.The unused days will be taken within the calendar year; followingapproval of the Company. In the event the Company returns to a two week factory vacation closing, production employeeswill be entitled to the additional (2) unused days as applied to the warehouse workers set out in Article 14:03.Approval will be based on :
1.	Employees must notify the Company in writing at least two (2) weeks in advance of the day (s) being requested.
2. The number of employees who may be allowed to take the same day (s) off shall be
18
m:\lcgal\rxh\perth-canada-agmt-red.doc
decided by the Company. In the case of conflict in dates requested, plant seniority governs. Notwithstandingthe above, should more than one employeefrom the plant, from any department, namely Cutting, Fitting 1, Fitting2, Sole Stock, Lasting, Finishing, Packing, request the same day off, the Company has the right to limit the number to not less than (1) one person from such department on such day.
3.	If the Company feels that it is unable to grant a specificrequest for a specific day (s) because of production problems, the Company shall notify the Union and attempt to set a mutually alternatedate with the employee.
4.	The Company will answer a request for a day (s) off at least one week prior to the date the person has requested the day (s).
The respectivepercentage applicablewill be applied to the pay period through the second week of June on an annual basis.
14:04 In calculatingvacation pay, time lost by an employeewhile receiving Workers Compensationor SickBenefits as provided in Sectionl0:01 of the Agreement shall be taken as though the employee were being paid his full regular rate of pay during such absence.
14:05 Employees who are scheduledto remain on duty during a plant shutdown will be allowed to take their vacation at a time mutually satisfactoryto the employee and the Company, but in any case the employee shall take in the current year a number of days equal to his credit. In scheduling employeesto remain on duty during plant shutdown,the Company shall first give considerationto the employees regularly employed on the job required.
m:\legal\rxh\perth-canada-agmt-red.doc
19
ARTICLE XV
Wages and Work Assignments for Piece Work Employees Only 15:01 The Company agrees to pay and the Union agrees to accept for the term ofthis agreement the schedule of wage rates in effect at the date hereof as to piece work employees only except as hereinafter provided.
15:02 (a) EffectiveNovember 2,1990 the seventy (70) centper hour clock card add on will apply to all individuals hired on piece work prior to January 17, 1985, when they can earn on piece work one cent per hour in excess of the factory minimum rate.
15:02 (b) EffectiveNovember 2, 1990, the thirty five (35) centper hour clock card add on will apply to all individuals hired on piece work after January 17, 1985, but prior to November 2,1990, when they earn on piece work one cent per hour in excess of the factory minimum rate.
15:02 (c) The clock card add on will not apply to employees hired or rehired afterNovember 2,1990.
15:03 (a) Effective October25,1996, all piecework wages will be augmented by twenty cents ($0.20) per hour for each hour worked.
15:03 (b) Effective October31,1997, all piecework wages will be augmented by an additional twenty cents ($0.20)per hour for each hour worked while onpieceworkto create atotal add-on of forty cents ($0.40) per hour for each hour worked.
15:03 (c) Effective October25 1996, the following minimum rate forproduction employees shall be as follows:
1)	Employeeshaving six months or less service: $7.00 per hour.
20
m:\JegaI\rxh\perth-canada-agmt-rcd.doc
2)	Effective October 25 1996, all employeeshaving completed six months continuous service: $7.30 per hour.
3)	Effective October 31 1997, all employeeshaving completed six months continuous service: $7.60 per hour.
15:03 (d) In conjunction with and in addition to 15:03 (a)& (b), effectiveNovember2 1998, all piecework wages will be augmented by twenty five (25) cents per hour for each hour worked by those employees having been in the continuous employ of the Company for six (6) months.
15:03 (e) In conjunction with and in addition to 15:03 (a) & (b), effectiveNovember 1, 1999, all piecework wages will be augmented by twenty (20) cents per hour for each hour worked by those employees having been in the continuous employ of the Company for six (^months.
15:03 (f)	The warehouse and daywork hourly rates are:
STARTING THREE MONTHS SIX MONTHS
CLASSIFICATION
	10/28/00	10/27/01	10/28/00	10/27/01	10/28/00	10/27/01
Order Pickers General	$7.00	$7.00	$8.85	$9.05	$9.44	$9.64.
						
Stock Clerks					■r.VS	■/JO
Leather	$7.00	$7.00	$9.60	$9.80	$9.96	$10.16
Other	$7.00	$7.00	$8.85	$9.05	$9.20	$9.40
Truck Drivers	$7.00	$7.00	$9.87	$10.07	$10.51	$10.71
Die Department	$7.00	$7.00	$9.60	$9.80	$9.96	$10.16
MULTI SKILLED OPERATOR& UPPER STOCK CLERK
STARTING THREE MONTHS SIX MONTHS
10/28/00	10/27/01	10/28/00	10/27/01	10/28/00	10/27/01
$7.00	$7.00	$9.83	$10.03	$10.21	$10.41
m:\legal\rxh\perth-canada-agmt-red.doc
21
INSPECTOR, LASTING, PACKING, RETURN SHOES, BACK SHOES, BACK SHOE CUTTER/LASTING, LINING STOCK CLERK, STOCK CLERK, CONSOLEEXPEDITER, SORT AND TIE UP, FITTING, PACKING.
STARTING	THREE MONTHS SIX MONTHS
______________________10/28/00	10/27fl)l	10/28/00	10/27/01	10/28/00	10/27/01
$7.00	$7.00	$9.28	$9.48	$9.99	$10.19
NIGHT CLEANER
STARTING	THREE MONTHS SIX MONTHS
10/28/00	10/27/01	10/28/00	10/27/01	10/28/00	10/27/01
$7.00	$7.00	$9.28	$9.28	$10.80	$10.80
NOTE 1, For above rates Union increase will not be added to starting line average.
NOTE2. The six months rate of each classificationwill be the line average for bidding purposes to jobs listed in that classification.
NOTE 3, If the line average of the successfulbidder exceeds the startrate of the day work j ob on which he has bid, he will compensatedat the line average for (1) one or (2) two weeks. Standard bidding proceduresthen will revert to the start rate until he has been on thejob for three (3) months, at which time he will be compensatedat the rate of his former line average in lieu of the 3 month rate or at the 3 month rate, whichever is higher.
NOTE 4. For employees not convertedby December 1 2001 a retroactive clock card add on of twenty five (25) cents per hour for each hour worked by those employeeshaving been in the continuous employ of the Company for six (6) months will be paid. For employees reverted to piece work the clock card add on will be augmentedby twenty five (25) cents per hour from the date of reversion.
m:\JegaI\rxh\perth-canada-agmt-red.doc
22
NOTE 5, As of October 25,2001 all piece work wages will be augmented by thirty (30) cents per hour for each hour worked by those employees having been in the continuous employ of the Company for six f 61 months.
NOTE 6. As of October28. 2000 the warehouse and day work hourly rates for those employees having been in the continuous employ of the company for six (6) months will have their wages augmented by twenty-five (25) cents per hour for each hour worked.
NOTE 7. As of October 25, 2001 the warehouse and day work hourly rates forthose employees having been in the continuousemplov of the company for six (6) months will have their wages augmentedbv thirty (30) cents per hour for each hour worked.
15:04 (a)	The Company shall have the right to establish wage rates on new and/ or changed
operations and/ or new patterns, provided that the established wage rate does not result in the •
reduction in hourly earnings of an employee (measured by a four (4) week average) who is able to produce at a normal hourly standard of production. The Union shall have the right to challenge any such rate by filing a grievance not later than (60) sixty days after the establishment of the rate. Failure to challenge a rate within the said (60) sixty days shall result in the forfeiture of the right to proceed further. Any rate on a new or changed method or pattern which is adjusted asthe result of negotiations or arbitrations shall be made retroactive to the date of its establishment. Whenever an individualssix month level of constant piecework average earningsdecreases by ten percent for a two week period, the Company will determine the cause of same by studyingthe methods and working conditions and/or by the making of time studies. The results of such investigation shall be made available to the Union. In the event the Union disputes the result of such investigation, the rate or rates shall be subject to a grievance settlement or arbitration and the revised rate or rates shall be made retroactive to the date the rate was submitted to the Company for investigation.
Every effort will be made to complete all time studies within a five (5) working day period
m:\legat\rxh\perth-canada-agmt-rcd.doc
23
Df the unions request for them.
15:04 (b)- The Union will be advised as to any changes from original rates applied to each pattern by means of a sequence change or typed memo. Should these records not be kept current and in an orderly manner, or if a conflict should occur with the appointed Union recipients normal work schedule this privilege will be discontinued.
In addition it has been agreed that the records will not be taken from the Factory and will be kept in a location provided by the Company close to the recipients work area.
15:04 (c) Copies of sequences and piece rate listings will be provided as new patterns/ rates are applied.
15:04 (d) In instances where the Company, by means of comparing existing time studies with new time studies, are able to prove to the Union that due to clerical errors or creeping change, certain rates have become out of line, such rates shall be changed under the following rule:
Any employee working on rates found to be out of line shall have such rates Red Circled for as long as they areonsuchjobs or for as long asthejob exists whichever terminates first. Such Red Circled employees shall be entitled to the same increases in rates and base wages as other employees. The adjusted rates shall apply to new employees to thejob. New employees to thejob will be advised in advance of acceptingthej ob of the adjusted rates.
15:05 The Company shall have the right to change the basis ofpayment from hourly rates to piece rates or vice versa, providing that this shall not result in the reduction in hourly earnings of any employee who is able to produce at a normal hourly standard of production. The Union shall have the right to challenge any such rate not later than (60) sixty days after the establishment of the rate.
15:06 (a) Employeestemporarily assignedto anotherjob, while work is available on their
regularj ob, shall be paid at the piece or hourly rate applicablethereto but shall be guaranteed no
24
m:\IegaJ\rxh\perth-canada-agmt-red.doc
less than their average straight time hourly average for all work performed thereon. A temporary transfer under this provision is one of no more than thirty days, unless extended by mutual agreement.
15:06 (b)	If employees are to be laid off on their ownjobs, they may accept temporary
assignment on otherjobs in the plant and shall be paid at the rate applicableto saidjob.
15:07 In the event employees are required to work on a new or changed operation, or are transferred under clause8:04 they shall be guaranteed one hundred percent (100%) oftheir hourly average for the first 120 hours worked thereon. If, at the end of this period, a piece rate has not been established, the guarantee shall continueuntil the rate has been given to the operator.
15:08 (a)	Should an employee (employees), due to normal work flow interruptions be without
work for a period of ten (10) minutes, he/she wH be entitledto waiting time payments.
Notwithstanding the foregoing,during any eight (8) hour shift, there shall be a maximum limit of thirty (30) minutes or waiting time imposed on any such employ ee(s) irrespectiveof the actual amount of normal work flow intemptions during such eight (8) hour shift. Any such employ ee(s) impacted by the maximum of thirty (30) minutes of waiting time shall be compensated for any waiting time in excess of such thirty (30) minutes during such shift.
Should an employee ( employees),due to abnormal work flow interruptions(interruptions not encountered during the everyday work period - e.g. power failure) be without work for a period of twenty minutes, he/she will be paid waiting time or be permitted to leavethe factory.
An operatorwill be requiredto reportto his/her immediate supervisor at the time he/she is without work and also after his/her waiting time has elapsed. All waiting time payments will be on the basis of straighttime hourly average.
15:08 (b) New- "green" slips will be submittedto the employee on the day of occurrence.
25
m:\legal\rxh\perth-canada-agmt-red.doc
ARTICLE XVI PRODUCTIVITY
16:01	In the case of a change in product or a change in the construction of a machine or technological change, or an
increase in the work load, the Company will notify the Union oftheNature ofthe change prior to the date the proposed change is to be put into effect. Such notification shall be given as soon as management has reached its decision,
ARTICLE XVII HEALTH AND WELFARE
17:01 (a)	Brown Shoe Company of CanadaLtd, pays the Employee Health Tfex.
- 17:01 (b)	The Extended Health Plan payments will be revised as of January 1981, at which
time the Company will absorb eighty (80) percent off the monthly premiums.
17:01 (c)	Effective immediately upon the ratification of this proposal, the Company shall take
necessary steps to implement a Dental Plan, with coverage as the current Metropolitan Life provides. Dental Plan benefits will be based upon the 1996 ODA Schedule of Fees forthe duration ofthis contract.
The cost of this plan shall be on a Company fifty (50) percent, employee fifty (50) percent
basis.
Any premium cost increase will be shared on a 80/20 basis by the Company and the Employees.The Company and Union will meet with the insurance carrierto discussterms for permitting, at no cost to the Company, employeediscontinuanceand reinstatement of dental coverage.
mMegal\rxh\perth-canada-agmt-re4doc
26
17:01 (d) Life insurancecoverage and weekly benefits will be as follows:
Life	EmployeeMonthly
Insurance Contribution
All employees with 60 days service	$10,000.00	$1.50
All employees must enroll in the above coverage as a conditionof employment.
17:01 (e) The weekly indemnity benefit will be sixty-six and two thirds percent of an employees four week averageprior to the claim, at no additionalcost to the employee. The maximum payment will be $460.00 per week for the term of this agreement.
The benefit will be payable for a maximum of (1 7) seventeenweeks to those individualsthat have completed the probationary period. Payments will begin on the day of disability in case of accident and on the first day of hospital confinement. Outpatient servicesthat require utilization of hospital serviceswill be treated as being hospitalized.Payments will begin on the fourth (4th) full calendarday of sickness.
Paymentswill be made:
(1)	Ifthe individualis being treated by a physician.
(2)	If the individual, in cases of anxiety and depression, is treated by a specialist in that regard (i.e.: a psychiatrist/psychologist) after receiving payments for one week. Paymentswill not be made;
Due directly or indirectlyto any one or more of the following:
(1)	Intentional self inflicted injury
(2)	Participation in or consequence of having participated commissionof an assault or a
felony.
27
m:\legal\rah\perth-canaila-agmt-red.doc
(3)	Pregnancy ■ Meaning (a) the state of being pregnant (b) childbirth.
Successive Disabilities
If a reoccurrence of the same disability, it must be separated from the original disability by twelve weeks of continuous active employment for it to be considered as a new period of disability. If, however, a disability arises from an entirely unrelated cause, it will be considered a new period of disability if the employee has returned to work for 5 consecutive days or more.
In the case of a leave of absence for illness, the Company may require the employee to report to a physician from time to time for confirmation of the original or subsequent diagnoses, such visits shall be paid for by the Company.
The Company and Union will explore availability and cost of long term disability coverage • at no cost to the Company.
17:02 The Company and employees will continueto sharethe cost of the Canada Pension Plan on the basis of50% each at the established rate ofl.8% ofearnings.
17:03 The Company shall take reasonable provision for the safety and health of the employees during working hours.
17:04 The employees will share, at the rate of five twelves, any premium reduction that may occur, because of the agreementwiththeU.I.C. sick benefit program.
17:05 (a) Effective May 1989 the Company will implementaRegisteredRetirementSavingsPlan (RRSP) under the following conditions:
(1) The company will contribute a maximum of (23) twenty three cents per employee for all hours worked provided that Company contributionswill not be made unless matched by the employee.
28
m:\legal\rxh\perth-canada-agmt-red.doc
(2)	Individual employees may make contributionsin excess of twenty three (23) cents per hour as applicablelaws and rules permit. Such contributionswill not be matched by the Company.
(3)	The Company shall have the exclusiveright to determinethe Administrator.and administrativedetailof the Plan and to determine the allocationof amounts contributed by the Company.
(4)	Plan administrative fees, such as fees for withdrawal, shall be borne by the employees.
(5)	An annual meeting will be held between the Company, The Union and the financial organizationconcerned vifh. the pension to determinethe status of the pension. The meeting should be at least 2 months prior to the anniversary date of the contract.
17.05(b) The Company will arrange a meeting between a union committeeand Royal Bank for the purpose of allowing these parties the opportunityto discuss approachesto achievinga better yield onRRSP funds.
17:06 Effective the first Friday followingratificationby Union, the Company will deduct (2) two centsper hour per employee and remit same as directed by the Union for the United Textile Workers Benefit Plan.
17:07 The Company will provide to each truck driver annually 2 pairs of good quality coveralls and 2 pairs of good quality gloves for use on thej ob.
17:08 The Company will contribute one hundred ($100.00)dollarsper person, per year, for a maximum of four persons, for the purchase of safety work boots for truck drivers and warehouse employees as specified by the Manager, Raw Materials Warehouse, and Finished Goods Warehouse.
m:\legal\rxh\perth-canada-agmt-red.doc
29
ARTICLE XVIII Notices
18:01 Except wherein otherwise provided, any notice which either party desires or is required to give to the other shall be given by prepaid registeredmail as follows:
If given to the Company:
Mr. Bill Blay Director of Manufacturing Brown Shoe Company of Canada Ltd, 1857 Roger Road Perth, Ontario, Canada K7H 3E8 (copy to plant Superintendent)
If give to the Union :
Council of United Textile Workers United Food and Commercial Workers International Union 655-32'nd Avenue. Suite300 Lachine, Quebec, Canada H8T3G6
ARTICLE XIX Termination
19:01 Unless changed by mutual consent the terms of this agreement shall be binding upon the
parties hereto from October'28, 2000 until October24, 2002 and therefore from year to year unless either party gives the other party written notice ofterminationor amendment not more than 90 days and not less that 30 days prior to the expiration date.
m:MegaI\nch\perth-canada-agmt-red.doc
30
19:02 If pursuant to negotiations, an agreement on the renewal of amendment ofthis Agreement is not reached prior to the current expiration date, this Agreement shall continue until a renewal thereof or a new agreement is consummated. Or until the conciliation proceedingsprescribed under the Labour Relations Act of 1960, Chapter202 and amendmentsthereto have been completed, whichever should first occur.
20.01 Attached to this Agreement and made a part hereof as if fully set out herein is the Brown Shoe Company, Perth Plant, SupplementalTrial Agreement, Conversion From Piece Work To Hourly Pay, October28, 2000 through October24, 2002,
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, each of the parties has caused this Agreement to be signed by its duly authorized officialor representative as of the day and year first above written.
BROWN SHOE COMPANY OF	UNITED TEXTILE WORKERS OF
CANADA, LTD.	AMERICA
ARHCLEXX
SUPPLEMENTTO THIS AGREEMENT
31
m:\legal\nch\perth-canada-agmt-red.doc
Brown Shoe Company, Perth Plant SupplementalTrial Agreement Conversion From Piece Work to Hourly Pay October28,2000 through October24, 2002
The following are provisions relating to the trial arrangement of conversion from piece work to hourly pay in respect of the various departments at the Company's Perth Plant.
No later than December 1, 2000, for all employees having completed six months continuous service the minimum rate in each department after conversion to hourly pay shall be $9.15 per hour. Likewise upon completion of 12 months consecutive service, the minimum rate in each department after conversion to hourly pay shall be $ 10,15 per hour.
Incentive workers in each department after conversion to hourly pay earning above $9,15 per hour based on an eight month average rating starting February 1, 2000 ending September 30, 2000 shall be red circled at their current rate plus adjustments for as long as they remain on such job.
Any job vacancy created, for whatever reason, shall be treated and handled in accordance with the collective agreement.
No later than December 1, 2000 the Company shall convert the packing department to hourly pay. At anytime after May 31,2001, should the Company realize any drop or reduction in productivity in the packing room, or any other department converted to hourly pay, related to the change from piece work to hourly pay that is not readily remedied, the Company, at its discretion upon 30 days notice to the Union, may terminate this supplemental agreement and revert to the former piece work arrangementsand rates plus adjustments.
As well, at anytime during the first twelve months of this agreement, the Company, unless it shall have acted to revert any converted department to the former piece work arrangements and rates plus adjustments, shall extend this arrangement to include all other departments. Each of the
32
m:\!egaI\rxh\perth-canada-agmt-red.doc
departments will be included at the time or times selected by the Company, however the fitting department shall begin conversion no later than June 1, 2001 provided the Company has the discretion not to proceed with the conversion of the fitting department by June 1, 2001 should the packing department show a drop or reduction in productivity related to the change from piece work to hourly pay that is not readily remedied. At any time prior to the conclusion of the term of this agreement should the Company as to any department realize any drop or reduction in productivity related to the change from piece work to hourly pay that is not readily remedied, the Company, at its discretion and upon 30 day's notice to the Union, may terminate this supplemental agreement and revert any one or more or all of the departments, including the packing room and fitting room, to the former piece work arrangements and rates plus adjustments. Any department not so reverted to piece work pay will remain on hourly pay.
Upon conversion to hourly rates from piece work rates for any department, all red circled rates shall include incentive bonuses and clock card add ons referred to in Article 15,02 and 15.03.
Article 15.06 (a) through 15.08 (b) as well as Article 16.01 do not apply to piece workers who become hourly workers under this supplement
Individuals who have been converted to hourly pay who want to bid on piece work jobs during the term of this agreement may do so on the basis of higherjob evaluation classifications.
As of October 26,2001 all individuals converted to hourly pay shall have their wages augmented by thirty (30) cents per hour.
m:\legal\rxh\perth-canada-agmt-red.doc
33