TABLE OF CONTENTS
Article		Page
1.	Recognition	4
2.	Union Representation	5
3.	Grievance Procedure	7
4.	Discharge and Disciplinary Action	9
5	Arbitration Procedure	11
6	Hours of Work and Overtime Rates	12
7	Authorized Leaves	23
8.	Wages & Benefits	25
9.	Holidays and Vacations	26
10.	Seniority	35
11.	Layoffs and Recalls	36
12.	Job Posting	39
13.	General	42
14.	Wage Agreement	42
15.	Duration	46
	Schedule 'A-	48
	Schedule 'B"	49
	Letters of Agreement	52-58
00809 (09)
AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
FIRESTONE TEXTILES COMPANY A DIVISION OF
BRIDGESTONE/FIRESTONE CANADA INC.
AND
THE UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS LOCAL 175 CANADA
December 15, 2007 to
December 15, 2010
THE UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS
LOCAL 175
and
FIRESTONE TEXTILES COMPANY
Both recognize the importance of and support a harmonious working relationship built on Trust, Teamwork, Respect, and Openness. Only under this type of environment can all employees achieve their full potential and contribute to the success and profitability of our operation. This in turn gives each of us the job security that permits us to provide a healthy and safe lifestyle for our families.
Firestone Textiles Woodstock can only be as good as the employees working here and we commit to work together as a team so we can make this operation the best it can be, for the betterment of our employees, Firestone, and the community.
UFCW - LOCAL 175 Jason Kramer Chief Steward
FIRESTONE TEXTILES COMPANY Bob Galway General Manager
This Agreement made and entered into as of this 12th day of December 2007 between
Firestone Textiles Company, A Division of Bridgestone/Firestone Canada Inc., Woodstock, Ontario, hereinafter designated as "the Company" and the United Food and Commercial Workers -Local 175 Canada, hereinafter designated as "the Union".
Wherever a paragraph is applicable only to one particular plant, it shall be so noted.
ARTICLE 1 RECOGNITION
1.01	The Company recognizes the Union as the exclusive voluntary collective
bargaining agency for all hourly rated and piecework employees below the rank of supervisor, but including sub-supervisor, employed in respect of and working in its Woodstock plants except: office staff, technical staff, supervisor and those above the rank of supervisor, security guard and engineer; persons acting in a confidential or supervisory capacity, or having authority to hire, discharge or suspend employees.
1.02	Neither the Company nor any of its agents will exercise discrimination, interference, restraint or coercion against any member of the Union on account of such membership.
1.03	The Union shall not hold meetings on Company premises or engage in Union activities on Company time except as provided for in this Agreement.
1.04	The Union agrees that it will not cause, direct or approve any strike, slowdown, sitdown or other stoppage of work, either partial or complete. The Company agrees that it will not cause or direct any lockout of its employees.
1.05	Both parties agree to comply with applicable Federal, Provincial, and Municipal health and
safety legislation and regulations.
1.06	The Company agrees that employees excluded from the bargaining unit as defined in 1.01 above, shall not perform work normally done by any employee in the bargaining unit except in the case of:
(a)	When necessary to instruct or train employees. In such instances, the work performed would be directly involved in instructing or training.
(b)	The production of samples and experimental work for developmental purposes.
(c)	Emergencies expressly limited to return to normal production following a fire, flood, unscheduled power failure or any other Act of God. In the event of other production interruptions or delays caused by breakdowns or changeovers, when such changeovers involve more than one machine or piece of equipment at any one given time, supervisors may perform a minimum amount of work necessary to maintain production flow and efficiency until such time as a changeover is completed or corrective maintenance has restored defective equipment to normal.
ARTICLE 2 UNION REPRESENTATION
2.01	The Union may elect or appoint up to two stewards on each shift, in each plant, but under no circumstances will one employee be represented by two stewards.
2.02	The Company shall be kept informed in writing of the names of officers and stewards and the group each represents.
2.03	The Union shall be kept informed in writing of all the names of all Management and Supervisory personnel directly concerned with the supervision of members of the Bargaining
Unit.
2.04	It is understood that the Union shall appoint a Union committee chairperson prior to any meeting with the Company. There may be rotation of chairpersons for "non-related" meetings. However, for more than one meeting pertaining to the same subject, the same chairperson will act for all meetings.
2.05	The officers and stewards shall constitute the grievance committee, but not more than four shall meet with management at any one time to deal with grievances. At least one of the grievance committee shall be from the plant in which the grievance originates.
2.06	The Company will pay fifty percent (50 %) of the wages and benefits for the five
(5) members of the Negotiating Committee for all time lost due to Negotiations. The Company will pay the Committee and then bill the Union for fifty percent (50 %) of the cost. The Company agrees to continue wages and benefits of Union Representatives on union business authorized by the Company and bill the Union for one hundred percent (100 %) of the cost.
2.07	The Union Representative will, upon providing notice to the Company, be entitled to visit the property to service, attend grievance meetings and attend to any Union business.
2.08	Temporary leave of absence shall be granted to delegates to National and International conferences and conventions, provided that the specific delegate list is received at least twenty-four (24) days in advance of the convention or conference. No more than seven (7) employees will be granted leave to attend unless mutually agreed between the Company and Union.
2.09	Elections for stewards and worker members of the Joint Health & Safety Committee
may be held on Company property.
2.10	CHECK OFF OF UNION DUES The Company will require each employee in the
defined Bargaining Unit, as a condition of employment, to sign a dues deduction order, as set out in Schedule "A", for the deduction of Union Dues. This order shall remain in force for the duration of this Agreement and any extension thereof and shall be subject to the terms of any renewal of it. Transfer to a classification outside the Bargaining Unit or termination of employment shall immediately cancel dues deduction order. The Company will promptly remit Union Dues deducted hereunder to the Union Treasurer and shall show the names from whose pay dues were deducted. The Dues and Initiation Report will be provided by e -mail (remit@ufcw175.com) or on computer diskette with a hard copy of the report, attached to the remittance cheque.
2.11	The Union shall indemnify and save the Company harmless from any claims, suits, judgments, attachments, and from any other form of liability as a result of the Company making any deduction in accordance with the foregoing authorization and the Union will refund direct to all employees from whom a wrongful deduction was made.
2.12	A union representative shall be allowed fifteen (15) minutes with new hires upon the completion of company orientation.
ARTICLE 3 GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
3.01	It is the intent of this article that all grievances be dealt with as quickly as possible.
3.02	Any difference group/policy grievance, which has not been settled by the supervisor will be submitted in writing at step number two as outlined in the grievance procedure in Article 3.
3.03	The Company and or the Union has the right to file any grievance and will be dealt with progressively in the following manner.
(i)	First, the grievance will be submitted in writing to the unit Chairman or his/her designate. A
meeting will oe arranged Detween me union Grievance committee ana me company Grievance
Committee. (Step 1)
(ii)	If the grievance remains unresolved the grievance will proceed to Step 2 within 48 hours of the time of submission and request.
(iii)	At Step 3 the Union Grievance Committee and a full-time representative of the Union will meet with the Plant Manager and/or a designate and the Company Grievance committee. If the issue is unresolved the Company can refer the grievance to Arbitration as outlined in Article 4. The time limits above can be extended by mutual consent of both parties.
3.04 Individual grievance will be handled in the following sequence:
(i)	Step No.1: The employee and shift union steward may take the matter up with their
supervisor. If the grievance is not settled within forty-eight (48) hours from the time of request, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and Holidays, the grievance will proceed to Step No. 2 It is understood that the employee has no grievance unless the matter has first been referred by the employee concerned to his/her immediate Supervisor within ten (10) calendar days form the date the employee became aware of the occurrence.
(ii)	Step No.2: The matter may be turned over to the Grievance Committee and if it wishes further discussion with respect to the same, it shall request in writing a meeting with the Human Resources Manager or a designate. At this stage the grievance shall be submitted in writing signed by the employee. The aggrieved employee, or in the case of a group grievance, one representative from the group, may be present at the request of either of the parties. A written response from the Company will be provided. If the grievance is not settled within forty-eight (48) hours from the time of submission and request, then:
(iii)	Step No. 3: The Grievance Committee shall request in writing a meeting with the General Manager or a representative. The first meeting shall be held within forty-eight (48) hours from
the time of receipt of request by the General Manager (excluding Saturdays, Sundays and
Holidays). a lull time representative oi tne union may oe present at tms step. me company
will respond in writing to the Union Representative within (10) working days.
3.05	The time limits specified in the above steps may be extended by the consent of both parties.
3.06	All decisions arrived at between the Company and the Union shall be final and binding upon the Company, the Union, the employee or employees concerned.
3.07	It is understood that all employees have regular duties to perform on behalf of the
Company and this clause will not be construed to provide an opportunity for employees to discuss petty complaints.
3.08	Supervisors, when requested, will make arrangements for Union Representatives to resolve problems during working hours.
3.09	An employee who wishes to have a discussion with their Union Representative will advise their supervisor who shall then arrange for this discussion as soon as feasible, without unduly interfering with normal production. Permission for discussion shall not be delayed more than one and one-half (1-1/2) hours and such discussion shall not exceed a period of fifteen (15) minutes. The Company will not make a practice of scheduling meetings under the foregoing during regular rest and/or lunch breaks.
3.10	Failing settlement of a grievance under the above procedure of any difference concerning the interpretation, application, administration or alleged violation of this Agreement, including any question as to whether a matter is arbitratable the matter in dispute may be taken to arbitration as hereinafter provided.
ARTICLE 4 DISCHARGE AND DISCIPLINARY ACTION
4.01	The Company shall have the right to discharge any employee for just cause. If
any employee with 640 hours or more continuous service should be discharged for reasons that
the Union believes to be unjust, such a case shall be considered as a grievance and shall be
nanaiea as set iortn in the Grievance procedure, oeginning at step iNumoer 2. me written grievance, signed by the employee, must be filed with the Human Resources Manager within three (3) working days of final written notice of discharge, exclusive of Saturdays, Sundays and Holidays. The Human Resources Manager or a representative shall interview any employee before discharge becomes final.
4.02	Prior to this interview, the Company will advise the employee’s steward or Union Representative, who will be given an opportunity to be present at the commencement of the interview. If the employee desires, the steward may remain throughout the interview.
4.03	If an employee with 640 hours or more continuous service is to be interviewed for a matter likely to result in verbal warning or greater disciplinary action, he/she will be reminded in writing of their right to have a union steward present at the interview prior to and during the interview.
4.04	When disciplining an employee, management will not take into account any prior discipline which occurred more than twelve (12) months previously with the exception of suspension(s) or greater disciplii which occurred more than eighteen (18) months previously.
4.05	When the Company completes its investigation and a decision is made to discipline an employee(s), the discipline will be administered on the employee(s) next scheduled shift.
Such investigation will be completed within fourteen (14) days of the matter coming to the attention of the Company. This time limit may be extended by mutual agreement between the Company and the Union.
4.06	An employee upon request shall have the right to review their personnel file with the Human Resources Manager (or designate) within seventy-two hour of the request, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and Holidays. Emergency requests will not be unreasonably denied.
ARTICLE 5 ARBITRATION
5.01	Either party may notify the other, in writing, of its desire to submit any
matter concerning the interpretation, application, administration or alleged violation of this Agreement, including any question as to whether a matter is arbitrable, to a Board of Arbitration and at the same time name its appointee. Within five (5) days thereafter, the other party shall name its appointee. The two appointees shall thereupon confer with a view of selecting a third member of the Board who shall be chairperson. If they are unable to agree upon such a chairperson within five (5) days, they shall then request the Minister of Labour for the Province of Ontario to nominate a member of the Judiciary of the Province of Ontario to be such chairperson. Each of the parties hereto will bear the expense of the chairperson. The decision of a majority of such a board shall be final and binding upon the parties.
5.02	In no case should more than ten (10) days elapse between filing a request for board of arbitration and selection of a chairperson or request to the Minister of Labour to appoint such a chairperson.
5.03	The Arbitration Board or any other tribunal shall not be authorized to make any decision, inconsistent with the provisions of this Agreement, nor to alter, modify or amend any part of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 6 HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME RATES
6.01	This article provides the basis for the calculation of overtime pay and shall not be construed as a guarantee to provide work for any period whatsoever.
6.02	The standard work day shall be eight (8) hours with the exception of rotating shift personnel in Plants No.2 and No.3, for whom it will be twelve (12) hours. All changes in departmental
shift hours other than stated in 6.03 shall be negotiated.
6.03
(a)
(b)
STANDARD DEPARTMENTAL SHIFT HOURS
On jobs requiring 3 shift operations: Day shift Evening shift Night shift
On jobs requiring 2 shift operations: Day shift
Evening shift
7:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m.
3:00 p.m. to 11:00 p.m.
11:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m.
7:00 a.m. to 3:30 p.m.
3:30 p.m. to 12:00 midnight
(c) On jobs requiring 1 shift operation: Day shift
7:00 a.m. to 3:30 p.m.
(d)	On jobs requiring 12 hour shifts (rotational)
7:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m. 7:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m.
(e)	On jobs requiring 12 hour shift Days only
Dayshift
Nightshift
Dayshift
7:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m.
6.05 It is understood that on continuous 3 shift operations, employees shall relieve one another
during the one-half (1/2) hour lunch period, wherever possible. Where it is not possible for employees to relieve one another, relief will be provided during the lunch period. It is understood that employees' earnings shall not be reduced by reason of this one-half (1/2) hour lunch period.
6.06	When 8-hour shift employees are required to work a minimum of three and one-half (3-1/2) hours overtime after the completion of their normal shift the employees will be paid for their lunch period.
6.07	It is understood that production operations will be continuous, with four shifts, A, B, C, and D operating on the twelve (12) hour shift schedule. Notwithstanding the company's right to increase or decrease the number of shifts operating on either the eight (8) hour non-rotating schedule and/or the four (4) shift twelve (12) hour schedule, the parties agree as follows:
(i)	If a full seven-day operation is not needed in all areas to meet production requirements, the company may operate any plant area(s) on 8 hour shift(s) as above, Monday through Friday, but always maintain some portion of the workforce on the job classifications listed below on the continuous four (4) shift schedule.
Twister Tender	Twister Operator
General Utility	Weaver
Loom Technician	Process Control Technician
Spinning Take Up Operator	Drawtwist Operator
Shift Millwright
(ii)	When production requirements necessitate a change in shift schedules between 12 hours - 7
days per week and 8 hours - 5 days per week, the company will provide a minimum of two (2)
weeks notice to those employees who would be aiiected. Any such change will remain in effect
for a minimum of three (3) months unless a shorter time period is mutually agreed to by both parties.
(iii)	When a change in shift schedules between 12 hours - 7 days per week and 8 hours - 5 days per week is to be implemented, placement of affected employees will be handled as follows:
(A) For employees affected by the shift schedule change, the procedure followed for applying their seniority will be the same as in the event of an entire shift being eliminated or added.
6.08	PROCEDURE FOR ELIMINATING SHIFT(S) DUE TO SHIFT SCHEDULE
CHANGE:
1.	Employee(s) who do not want to change shift schedules may apply seniority in accordance with Clause 9.05 to displace a less senior employee in any classification working on that same shift.
2.	If no job can be obtained on that same shift schedule and the employee will be changing shift schedules, they must fill any vacancy in the job classification they are in at the time of the shift schedule change.
3.	If unsuccessful under number 2 above, employee(s) may then apply seniority to obtain any job outside of their classification on the new shift schedule in accordance with Clause 9.05.
6.09	PROCEDURE FOR ADDING SHIFT(S) DUE TO SHIFT SCHEDULE CHANGE:
1.	An employee who has changed jobs as a result of a change in shift schedules will have the option of exercising seniority to return to the job classification in which they were qualified prior to the shift schedule change.
2.	Any employee who does not want to change shift schedules may apply seniority in accordance with Clause 9.05 to displace a less senior employee in any classification working on that same shift schedule.
3.	If no job can be obtained on that same shift schedule and the employee will be changing
snm scneauies, they must ini any vacancy in tne jod classification they are in at me time oi me
shift schedule change unless they have exercised their option under number 1. above.
4.	If unsuccessful under number 3. above, employee(s) may then apply seniority to obtain any job outside of their classification on the new shift schedule in accordance with Clause 9.05. (B) After all employees affected by the shift schedule change have exercised their seniority to obtain a job, all remaining vacancies will be posted in accordance with Article 9.12. It is understood that employees in the electrical department will be required to work a three (3) week rotating shift schedule. It is understood that certain employees in the fixer - twisting; drawtwist; spinning take-up classification may, at the company's discretion, be required to work a three (3) week rotating day shift schedule.
6.10	The Union and the Company agree to and recognize that the schedules of work that exist in various departments will remain in effect for the incumbent and may be changed or introduced in other areas if there is mutual agreement between the Union and the Company.
6.11	A work day on the twelve (12) hour shift will run from 7:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m. The work week will start at 7:00 p.m. Saturday (this is the start of Sunday night shift).
6.12	Time and one-half the hourly rate in the case of hourly rated employees shall be paid for all hours worked in excess of eight (8) hours per day except for Plants No.2 and No.3 rotating shift personnel working twelve (12) hour shifts who will receive a wage rate of time and one-half for hours worked in excess of twelve (12) hours.
6.13	Employees who receive less than twenty-four (24) hours notice of a shift change shall be paid time and one -half for the first shift worked.
6.14	Overtime work shall be distributed as evenly as possible among those performing such work. It is understood that employees shall work such overtime work as the Company may assign.
6.15	Once overtime is accepted, employees must work a minimum of eight (8) hours of the
twelve (12) nour snut or six (6) nours or tne eignt (8) nour snin, unless given prior permission oy me
Supervisor.
6.16	In tne event scneduled overtime must be cancelled by tne company, 72 nours' notice will be given prior to tne scneduled day of overtime, if not, tne scneduled employee will be given tne option of working or refusing tne overtime day.
6.17	A day snift worker wno is asked to stay over and finisn a job wnicn nas to be completed, may leave after tnat job is completed and does not nave to do otner jobs as tney come up.
6.18	8 HOUR SHIFTS: Tne Company will post notification of Saturday overtime work no later tnan 3:00 p.m. Monday of tne same week. Employees will be assigned to work tne above overtime unless qualified volunteers can be found to work tne scneduled overtime snift. Employees would not be required to work more tnan two (2) consecutive Saturdays.
6.19	12 HOUR SHIFTS: Notwitnstanding tne above, in tne event of an emergency, sucn as vacancies created by absenteeism or employee terminations, tne Company may require employees to remain on duty until relieved to a maximum of two (2) nours.
6.20	Employees on afternoon snift snall be paid a bonus of twenty four (24) cents per nour and employees on tne nignt snift snall be paid a bonus of twenty-nine (29) cents per nour to a maximum of eignt (8) nours per day except employees working twelve (12) nour snifts wno will receive a snift bonus of tnirty-five decimal tnree (35.3) cents per nour for tne nignt snift only, up to a maximum of twelve (12) nours.
6.21Time and one-nalf of tne nourly rate snall be paid for all overtime nours worked on Saturdays and double time for all overtime nours worked on Sundays.
6.22 Time and one-nalf tne nourly rate snall be paid for all nours worked during scneduled "off snift" days, except wnen an "off snift" day falls on a Sunday, in wnicn case payment will be at double time. Employees on twelve (12) nour snifts will adnere to tne "Coverage for Unscneduled Absenteeism" regulations below, to provide coverage for job vacancies on "off snift" days.
0.23 a crew premium wm ue paid to anyone wno replaces a twelve (12) hour employee on a
twelve (12) hour shift.
6.24	PLANT 2 - 12 HOUR WEEKEND SHIFT SCHEDULE
The weekend shift schedule will be implemented in accordance with the following provisions:
(i)	The schedule will consist of 2 - 12 hour schedules
"E" shift - beginning Friday night 7pm ending Monday morning 7am (3 shifts) "F" shift - beginning Saturday morning 7am ending Sunday night 7pm (2 shifts) Shifts E and F shall rotate from weekend to weekend nights to days
(ii)	A. Initially, vacancies shall be filled on a voluntary basis by the most senior qualified Operators. If there are insufficient qualified employees who have volunteered, such vacancies will be filled in accordance with Article 9 section 9.12 (i.e.: Job Posting).
B. Not more than 4 employees per shift will be used at any time.
(iii)	In the event the schedule is discontinued or reduced in numbers, seniority provisions in Article 9 shall apply.
(iv)	The calculated weekend premium will be the employees base rate plus 33% (base X 1.33%) for all hours worked on shift "E and F". This equals 80 hours pay for 60 hours worked over a two week period.
(v)	Night shift bonus 7pm to 7am $ 0.353
(vi)	Eligibility periods for seniority, probation, holidays/bereavement, benefits, weekly indemnity and pension shall be calculated at 1.33 x hours worked.
(vii)	Vacation entitlement shall be calculated in the following manner
Vacation Entitlement_____Time Off
2	weeks	vacation	= 5 days off
3	weeks	vacation	= 7 or 8 days off
4	weeks	vacation	= 10 days off
5	weeks	vacation	= 12 or 13 days off
6	weeks	vacation	= 15 days off
Not more than one (1) employee will be absent for vacation and floater holidays at any given time.
shift employees first. Weekend workers may put their names on the optional list and will be called in before employees outside of the classification. When a weekend worker works overtime Monday through Friday, normal overtime premiums shall apply (i.e.: premium pay at base rate and crew premium where applicable.) employees replacing a weekend worker (shift E and F) on overtime basis would not receive the weekend premium of 1.33 times the base rate.
(ix) Employees working this shift schedule would receive eighty (80) hours C.O.L.A. for sixty (60) hours worked over a two (2) week period.
(x). All the above are subject to change with mutual agreement by the Company and the Union.
6.25	COVERAGE FOR UNSCHEDULED ABSENTEEISM, 12 HOUR SHIFTS
(a)	Coverage for unscheduled absenteeism will be done by a list of volunteer workers (to
cover each job classification) who will put their names on a list on their last day before going on days off. The Company will not schedule overtime or remove the sign-up sheet before three o'clock a.m./p.m. (3:00 a.m./p.m.). These employees will have volunteered to be called in on their days off to provide coverage for unscheduled absenteeism. Employees on shift may be required to remain on duty until relieved, for a maximum of two (2) hours.
(b)	Employees on voluntary call-in within their classification shall be contacted in the order of their highest seniority. Secondly, employees in other classifications who have volunteered to be called in and who are qualified to perform the work required shall be contacted in the order of their highest seniority. If necessary, the least senior employee on voluntary call-in within the classification who is qualified to perform the work will be required to report for work.
(c ) Should there not be volunteers to cover all jobs, then the on-call system will have to be put into effect where designated employees will be on- call for a one hour period on their upcoming
days off as follows:
i.	me snin just nnisning nignt sum ana on tneir urst (ana secona aay or a tnree [3j aay cycle) aay
off will be on-call from 6:30 p.m. to 7:30 p.m. to cover vacancies on tne nignt snift tnat aay (or two aays).
2.	Tne snift just finisning aay snift ana on tneir first (ana secona aay of a tnree [3] aay cycle) aay off will be on-call from 6:30 a.m. to 7:30 a.m. to cover vacancies on tne aay snift tnat aay (or two aays).
3.	Tne snift on tneir last aay off ana scneaulea to go on nignt snift tne next aay will be on-call from 6:30 p.m. to 7:30 p.m. to cover vacancies on tne nignt snift tnat aay.
4.	Tne snift on tneir last aay off ana scneaulea to go on aay snift tne next aay will be on-call from 6:30 a.m. to 7:30 a.m. to cover vacancies on tne aay snift tnat aay.
(a) Tne oraer of aesignatea call-in will start witn tne most junior qualifiea employee ana rotate on a seniority basis witnin eacn job category so tnat aesignations for call -in are evenly aistributea among tne employees. Wnen on-call, an employee must be available for tnat one (1) nour perioa ana wnen contactea must report for work witnin two (2) nours of tne snift start. Employees will be notifiea witnin tne last four (4) nours of tneir last working aay if tney are aesignatea to be on-call on tneir up coming aays off.
(e)	If no employees nave volunteerea, tne aesignatea call-in snall be requirea to report for work unless tney fina a qualifiea replacement to report in tneir place witnin tne time allowea.
(f)	An employee wUo reports to work to cover for unscneaulea absenteeism will receive one (1) nour of pay at tne employee's straignt time nourly rate in aaaition to payment for all nours workea.
(g)	Tnis system will apply to all employees working tne twelve (12) nour rotating snift.
6.26	COVERAGE FOR SCHEDULED OVERTIME - 12-HOUR SHIFTS
(a) Qualifiea employees will be askea by Department if tney are interestea in naving tneir
names on me voluntary overtime list ana tneir names will oe tistea m oraer oi seniority.
Balancing oi overtime lor the scheduled overtime system will be on a continuous basis. Employees changing shifts or employees wanting their name added to the voluntary scheduled overtime list will be credited with an equal amount of overtime as the most overtime credits documented and would be credited with an equal amount of assignments as the least amount of assignments documented. These employees will only be eligible for overtime from the first day they start their new shift. Employees added to the list would be eligible from the day they asked to be added to the list.
(b)	Employees outside of the classification who are capable of doing the work may have their names on the scheduled overtime list under the heading "Optional Employees". It will be up to the supervisors to decide who is eligible for this heading.
(c)	The Supervisor will post overtime as the dates are known. Overtime shall be scheduled every weekend for the 2-week period starting ten (10) days after the Monday of that weekend. The only exception to this would be in the case of the company receiving less than the above amount of notice for time scheduled off such as floaters. In this case, notice will be given as soon as possible.
(d)	Overtime will be distributed evenly to the people on the scheduled overtime list starting with the most senior. One day at a time will be chosen by each employee in order of seniority. If overtime is not accepted by anyone on the list, move to the optional list. If still not accepted by anyone, assign in order from the most junior employee in that occupational classification. Assignments should be done only as a necessity. Assigned employees will be given at least 24 hours notice. An employee will be exempt from assignment if they have worked or are scheduled to work overtime within seven days of the shift to be assigned. Assignment to cover scheduled overtime will be shared amongst all qualified employees in the classification starting with the
least senior employee with no time period for balancing.
a) They work the overtime
b) They refuse the overtime
NOTE:	To be credited with a shift of overtime, the employee must have been available to
be asked when the overtime was scheduled.
(f)	Employees will also be credited each time it is their turn for scheduled overtime when they are off work on Workers' Compensation, Accident or Sickness Benefits or off on vacation.
(g)	Accurate records of all the above will be maintained.
(h)	72 hours notice for time off is considered scheduled overtime and at least 24 hours notice will be given to volunteers on the scheduled overtime list.
(i)	The above provisions do not apply to less than a full shift.
6.27	MAINTENANCE DEPARTMENT RELIEF
(a) Should circumstances arise where none of the rotating shift mechanics are able to cover for unscheduled absenteeism on night shift or weekends (i.e. two shift mechanics off because of illness), then it may be necessary to reschedule day shift maintenance mechanics to cover these vacancies. This may require a short changeover where day shift mechanic(s) report for work at 7:00 a.m. and it is found necessary that they cover the night shift. Then it is the Company's right to send them home no later than 11:00 a.m., otherwise they shall not be required to work more than an additional eight (8) hours unless they agree to cover the entire shift. Earnings will be at straight time except for shift premiums, weekends and Statutory Holiday premiums, while the day mechanic is on shift for relief, with the exception of the first shift which is covered under Article 6.01.
6.28	If any employee reports for work at the regularly scheduled time for their shift, they shall be
entitled to a minimum of four (4) hours pay at not less than their standard day rate, unles s
previously notinea oy tne company to me contrary eimer orally or oy notice on me ouiierm
board or by message left at the employee's residence, provided that if requested by the company the employee shall perform a minimum of four (4) hours of such available work as the Company may assign; and further provided that this section shall not apply in cases of a major mechanical breakddown affecting the entire department, work stoppage on the part of any employee or employees returning to work after an absence.
6.29	Any employee called in to work at any time after the close of their regular shift, shall be through when the work which they were called in to do is completed. The employee shall be paid at the rate of time and one-half for a minimum of four (4) hours, except on Sundays which will be paid at double time for a minimum of four (4) hours. This provision does not apply to an employee called in early or working overtime on their regular shift, except that if any employee is called in early and is sent home prior to the completion of their regular shift, the above provision shall apply. This provision does not apply to the "Coverage for Unscheduled Absenteeism” and "Coverage for Scheduled Overtime" clauses for employees on twelve (12) hour shifts .
6.30	There shall be no pyramiding of premium payments.
6.31	The Company shall inform employees at the time they are being called in for unscheduled overtime as to what they are being called in for, and who they are replacing.
6.32	Unscheduled Overtime Errors - The Company and the Union agree that in the event the Company makes an error in distributing "unscheduled overtime", as per Article 5 in the Collective Agreement, to an employee(s) the Company will pay in full wages lost to the employee(s) affected.
6.33	Scheduled Overtime Errors- The Company and the Union agree that in the event the Company makes an error in "scheduled overtime", the Company will balance the proven day(s) in question by providing the opportunity to work to the employee(s) affected a day
at me employees aiscretion witnin tnree weeks irom me resolution oi me issue in aispute.
The resolution will occur within one (1) week oi the employee bringing the matter to the attention oi the Company. It is also understood that the day oi overtime worked will not have any effect on previously scheduled or unscheduled overtime. Any unscheduled overtime that could result irom employee absenteeism will be replaced from the
unscheduled overtime list and not be replaced by an "opportunity to work" day. If an error in scheduled overtime for employees are more numerous on a specific shift, the Union and the Company will meet to resolve the issue. The Company will review the above with all Shift Supervisors. A shift Supervisor may not bypass an eligible employee on the scheduled overtime list for any reason. The above agreement is intended to eliminate favoritism and or unwillingness to call all employees on the list.
6.34	Time for all meetings called by the Company will be paid at the applicable hourly rate, provided the training takes place during the employee's regular working hours or where the Company insists on mandatory attendance. Employees attending authorized training on their regular day off will be paid at time and one half (11/2) times.
ARTICLE 7 AUTHORIZED LEAVES
Bereavement
7.01	In the event of bereavement in the employee's immediate family, which shall include: father, mother, husband, wife, sister, brother, son, daughter, father-in-law, mother-in-law, daughter-in-law, son-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, grandchildren, the employee's grandfather and grandmother, which may necessitate an employee to be absent from scheduled work, claim for payment for time lost on regular hours up to three (3) consecutive scheduled work days, one (1) of which must be the day of the funeral, may be made to the Human
Resources Department after the occurrence.
1.02	in the event of the death ot the spouse's grandfather or grandmother, an employee may be absent with pay from scheduled work for the day of the funeral or the night shift of the day after the funeral.
7.03	In the event that the burial is postponed to a later date, an employee will be entitled to hold one (1) paid bereavement day over to be taken on the day of the burial.
7.04	Proof of death shall be submitted if requested by the Company. The category of relatives, specified above includes legal and blood relation-ships, half relatives and step relatives, foster parent and foster child.
7.05	Payment for such lost time will be the employee's average hourly earnings on a straight time basis, exclusive of all types of bonuses and premiums except for shift employees who will receive the crew premium and the premium paid for designated paid holidays if absent due to bereavement in accordance with this clause. if the employee is eligible for any other form of
remuneration to which the Company contributes, payment shall not be made under this section for such day or days.
7.06	If a bereavement occurs while an employee is on vacation, the employee can request of the Company, to the Personnel Department, prior to the date of the funeral, that vacation days be substituted with bereavement days. These vacation days will be taken at a mutually agreed upon later date.
7.07	To be eligible for such payment, employees must have completed a probationary period of two hundred and forty (240) hours.
Jury Duty & Crown Witness
7.08	An employee who is called as a crown witness or is required to serve on a jury, shall be paid the difference between fees for such services and normal straight time earnings, for the time lost, subject to the following provisions:
1.
Employees must notify their supervisor as soon as possible after receipt of notice
of selection for such duty.
2.	Employees who are selected for such duty, who are on other than day shift, shall be assigned to the day shift for those days they are required to serve.
3.	Employees who are called for such duty and temporarily excused from attendance at court, must report for work if it is reasonably possible to report by 11:00 a.m. and 3:00 p.m. when working eight (8) or twelve (12) hour shifts respectively.
4.	Employees must furnish written statement from the appropriate public official, showing the date and time served and amount of pay received, to be eligible for payment.
7.09	Pregnancy and Parental Leave - All pregnancy, parental and adoption leaves shall be in accordance with the Employment Standards Act.
7.10	Any employee failing to complete their regular shift because of injury on the job, shall be paid their regular rate including crew premium if applicable, for the balance of the shift, providing permission to leave the job is approved by a Company representative or a medical doctor.
ARTICLE 8 WAGES AND BENEFITS
8.01	(a) Qualified rates and hiring rates, including crew premiums, as set out in the Supplementary Wage Schedule shall remain in effect during the term of the Agreement.
(b) When an employee works on a schedule that normally includes working Saturdays, Sundays, and designated paid holidays, the employee will be paid a crew premium as set out in the supplemental wage schedule in addition to their normal hourly rate for all hours worked.
8.02	(a) When an employee is required by the Company to temporarily transfer to another job, except in the case of layoff, the employee shall be paid the regular rate based on the employee's earnings for the past pay period, or the qualified rate of the job to which the
employee is uaiisfening, whichever is higher.
(b)	Employees with six (6) months or more seniority, who are transferred to a different job classification to fulfill seniority requirements, shall be paid qualified rate for the job from which they are being transferred or such higher rate as qualifications warrant up to a maximum of qualified rate for the job to which they are transferred.
8.03	(a) Employees who are recalled shall receive payment at the rate they qualify for.
(b) Employees returning to a job classification through a job posting will be paid the qualified rate of the job to which they are transferring providing they have received qualified rate on that job within the past two (2) years.
8.04	Adjustment of any wage rate which has been subject to grievance procedure shall
provide for retroactivity to the date the disputed rate went into effect, consistent with any loss of wages which an employee may have sustained by reason of such disputed rate, but in any case no more retroactivity than thirty (30) days prior to the filing of the written grievance.
8.05	If the Company establishes a rate of pay for a new or substantially changed job a meeting will be arranged between the Unit Chairman, a full time representative of the Union, the Human Resources Manager and Department Supervisor. The Company and the Union will submit in writing the rate of pay the job should be established at and the reasons for their decision. Consideration shall be given to the skill involved and the rate of pay in relationship to other jobs in the plant. If no agreement is reached the matter will be referred to arbitration as outlined in Article 5. Upon settlement of the rate of pay any adjustment will be awarded retroactively to the date the grievance was filed.
ARTICLE 9 HOLIDAYS AND VACATIONS
HOLIDAYS
9.01	Employees who are on the active payroll shall be paid eight (8) hours holiday pay
for the following designated paid holidays:
Good Friday
Labour Day
Victoria Day	Thanksgiving Day
Canada Day	Christmas Day
Family Day	Boxing Day
Four (4) additional paid holidays are to be taken as personal holidays each year.
9.02	When one of the designated paid holidays indicated above falls on Saturday, it will be observed on the preceding Friday and if a holiday falls on a Sunday, it will be observed on the following Monday, except for twelve (12) hour shift employees who will observe the designated paid holiday on the day on which it falls.
9.03	Employees who work the Three Week Rotating Day Shift schedule will have the following choices if a designated paid holiday indicated above falls on a Friday or a Monday which is their regular day off:
1.	If the designated paid holiday falls on a Friday, employee may be scheduled off
on the preceding Thursday or work their normal schedule.
2.	If the designated paid holiday falls on a Monday, employee may be scheduled off on the following Tuesday or work their normal schedule.
(a) To qualify for payment on the above designated paid holidays, when not worked, the employee must work their regular shift immediately prior to and im mediately following such holiday. If an employee working on a rotating shift basis is absent when scheduled to work on a designated paid holiday, the employee will not receive payment for the holiday.
9.04	Exceptions will be made when absence has been caused by any of the following reasons:
1.	Death in the immediate family of the employee.
2.	Sickness - evidenced by a doctor's certificate or other evidence satisfactory to the
Company and limited to a twenty-one (21) day period. Payment for any
designated paid holiday(s) that tall within a period of sickness or accident of up to
six months from the twenty-first (21st) day of sickness or accident will be paid at the rate of the difference between the daily benefit rate and the normal holiday rate, upon the employee's return to work.
3.	Payment for any designated paid holidays which fall within a period of accident or sickness covered by the Workers' Safety Insurance Board, will be paid at the rate of the difference between the daily benefit rate and the employee's normal holiday earnings for a period of twelve (12) months from the date of disability, payable upon the employee's return to work.
4.	Cases of extreme urgency requiring the presence of the employee, which are approved by the department head.
9.05	An employee who is laid off within five (5) and four (4) working days, for eight (8) hour and twelve (12) hours shifts respectively, of a designated paid holiday, will be paid for such holiday(s), provided the employee works their regular shift and would otherwise have qualified for designated paid holiday pay had they not been laid off.
9.06	Employees who qualify shall be paid for the holiday based on their rate for the day of the holiday and shall exclude all premiums.
9.07	All scheduled time worked on the above designated paid holidays shall be paid at time and one-half, except Christmas Day in which case payment will be at double time.
9.08	All overtime worked on the above designated paid holidays shall be paid at double time except when:
(a)	a holiday falls on a Sunday
(b)	an employee works on Christmas Day in which case payment will be at double time and one-half.
9.09	Should such designated paid holiday occur during a qualified employee's paid vacation
leave, tney snail oe enmiea to sucn nonaay witn pay in aaaition to ana taken concurrently witn
their vacation leave, proviaea tne employee nas workea tneir regular scneaulea snifts immeaiately preceaing ana following tne vacation leave.
9.10	PERSONAL HOLIDAYS- PLANTS NOS. 2 AND 3
Tne Company ana tne Union agree tnat tne four (4) personal noliaays in eacn calenaar year snall be grantea as inaiviaual aays on tne following basis:
(a)	Tne groups, classifications an^or group(s) of classifications to be consiaerea for purposes of tnis Agreement are:
(i)	Snipper-Receiver; Assistant - Stores, Sopping-Receiving
(ii)	Storekeeper
(iii)	Inspector; Assistant Utility
(iv)	Cleaner-Janitor - Plant No.2
(v)	Cleaner-Janitor - Plant No.3
(vi)	Fixer - Twisting, Drawtwist ana Spinning Take-up
(vii)	Electrician
(viii)	MacWnist
(ix)	Millwrignt
(x)	Snift Workers
(b)	A maximum of one (1) employee from eacn of (i) (ii) (iii) (iv) (v) listea above ana a maximum of two (2) employees from eacn of (vi) (vii) (viii) (ix) listea above may be off on any given aay unless approval by exception is grantea. Employees in (x) listea above will be permittea to scneaule personal noliaays on an inaiviaual basis, accoraing to seniority witn tne following restrictions:
(i)	For job classifications witn four (4) or less people, no more tnan one
(ii)	For job classifications with more than four (4) but less than nine (9) people, no more than two (2) employees, with a maximum of one (1) employee per shift, may be off on any given day.
(iii)	For job classifications with nine (9) or more people, no more than four (4) employees, with a maximum of one (1) employee per shift, may be off on any given day.
(iv)	For job classifications with twenty one (21) or more people, no more than eight (8) employees, with a maximum of two (2) employees per shift, may be off on any given day, and not more than six (6) employees per shift.
(c)	If it is known (prior to the required notice time) that another employee will be off work due to sickness or accident on the day requested for the personal holiday, then the number of employees allowed off as indicated above on that day will be reduced accordingly.
(d)	Any requests for personal holidays in conjunction with paid holidays will be awarded on the basis of seniority, provided a minimum of one (1) week's notice is given on the form provided. Any previously scheduled vacation time will take priority over personal holidays regardless of seniority.
(e)	Other requests will be awarded on the basis of first come, first served.
Employees must request these holidays at least three (3) working days in advance on the form provided unless approval is given by the employee's supervisor. Written approval will be given within one (1) working day. Any previously scheduled
vacation time will take priority over personal holidays regardless of seniority.
(f)	Only two of the above holidays may be taken prior to July 1st of each calendar year,
unless approval is given by the employee’s supervisor to take all holidays before
July 1st.
(g)	Employees must have scheduled all holidays for the current calendar year prior to November 1st of the current year. Any holiday not taken during the calendar year will be forfeited. In that case, payment will be made for the holiday(s).
(h)	Employees hired prior to July 1st are eligible for the four (4) personal holidays during the calendar year in which they are hired. Employees hired on or after July 1st are eligible for only two (2) personal holidays during the calendar year in which they are hired. In order to be eligible for the holidays and to qualify for payment, in addition to the above, employees must comply with the applicable clauses of Article 9 of the Agreement.
(i)	Twelve (12) hour shift employees will receive payment for twelve (12) hours at their qualified rate, exclusive of all premiums, for the four (4) personal holidays, provided they do not work on the personal holiday.
9.11	Vacations
The Company agrees to grant the following vacations with pay to employees on the payroll on
July 1:
Service	Vacation Time	Vacation Pay
1 year but less than 3 years	2 weeks	4%
3 years but less than 5 years	2 weeks	5%
5 years but less than 8 years	3 weeks	6%
8 years but less than 12 years	3 weeks	7%
12 years but less than 16 years	4 weeks	8%
16 years but less than 20 years	4 weeks	9%
20 years but less than 23 years	5 weeks	10%
23 years but less than 25 years
5 weeks
11%
25 years and up	6 weeks	12%
Note: Employees hired after December 15, 2007 will have vacation time capped at 4 weeks and vacation pay capped at 8%.
9.12	Vacation time off for employees working twelve (12) hour shifts will be broken down into hours [one week of vacation is equivalent to forty (40) working hours] and vacation days taken in twelve (12) hour multiples to correspond with full work days.
(i)	For two (2) weeks of vacation, an employee may select six (6) or seven (7) days of vacation.
(ii)	For three (3) weeks of vacation, an employee will receive ten (10) days of vacation.
(iii)	For four (4) weeks of vacation, an employee may select thirteen (13) or fourteen (14) days of vacation.
(iv)	For five (5) weeks of vacation, an employee may select sixteen (16) or seventeen (17) days of vacation.
(v)	For six (6) weeks of vacation, an employee will receive twenty (20) days of vacation.
9.13	Vacation pay shall be computed twice a year, based on the employee's total earnings, firstly from the last full pay in June to the year end cut-off and secondly, from the year end cut-off to the end of the last full pay in June. The percentage entitlement for both payments as indicated above will be based on the employee's seniority as of July 1 following the second payment period.
9.14	(a) The one year period for the purpose of taking vacations is the calendar year, January 1st to December 31st. However, employees are able to carry over one (1) week of their vacation entitlement to be taken between January 1st and April 30th of the following year and applications must be submitted by April 1st of the current
vacation year. A response will be given by May 1st.
(D) Employees entmea to vacation time in excess oi two (2) weeks may ootain an
application form for preferred vacation time to De taken between January 1st and May 31st from their supervisor after November 1st and must submit the form no later than December 1st. A reply will De given Dy December 15th.
(c ) Employees entitled to vacation time in excess of two (2) weeks will be issued application forms for preferred vacation time to be taken between June 1st and December 31st by March 15th and must submit the forms for consideration by April 1st. A reply will be given by May 1st.
(d)	In the event that more than one (1) employee requests time off for the same period and it cannot be agreed that all such employees be spared, then the most senior employee has the preference.
(e)	For all plant areas, vacation schedules will be determined by classifications, giving preference to employees based on seniority, with the following restrictions:
(i)	For job classifications with four (4) or less people no more than one (1) employee per shift, be absent for vacation at any given time.
(ii)	For job classifications with more than four (4) but less than nine (9) people, no more than two (2) employees, with a maximum of
one (1) employee per shift may be absent for vacation at any given time.
(iii)	For job classifications with nine (9)or more people, no more than four (4) employees, with a maximum of one (1) employee per shift may be absent for vacation at any given time.
(iv)	For job classifications with twenty-one (21) or more people, no
more than eight (8) employees, with a maximum of two (2)
employee per shift may be absent for vacation at any given time.
(f)	The above restrictions in 8.03 (e) may be altered with Company approval but not more than six (6) employees per shift will be absent for vacation at any given time.
9.15	Applications for vacation time other than preferred vacation time must be submitted at least ten (10) calendar days prior to the requested time off, unless approval is given by the supervisor. A reply will be given by the following scheduled shift.
9.16	Maintenance Department
No more than one (1) employee from each of the areas listed below may be absent for vacation at any given time.
(a)	day mechanics*
(b)	machinist
(c)	shift mechanics*
(d)	day electrician*
(e)	twister fixing*
(f)	shift fixer*
(g)	shift electrician*
* exception: two (2) day shift mechanics, day shift fixers or day shift electricians may be off at the same time as long as no shift mechanic, shift fixer, or shift electrician is off at the same time.
9.17	When an employee has been unable to work during a portion of the preceding vacation year, because of sickness or injury, and vacation pay is less than the minimum mentioned below, vacation pay shall be increased to a minimum of $150.00 per week, provided that the said
employee must have worked some portion of the preceding vacation year and have resumed
regular work ror at least one montn.
9.18	Employees with five (5) years seniority shall be entitled to up to thirty (30) days leave of absence without pay once every four and one half (4-1/2) years provided sixty (60) days written notice is given. A written reply will be given no less than forty-five (45) days prior to the leave of absence effective date. No more than one person, on the basis of highest seniority, in any one job classification shall be granted a leave of absence at any one time, unless at the Company's discretion more people can be permitted to be absent.
9.19	However, for employees covered under 9.12 the total number of employees absent for vacations and/or leave of absences during the months of July and August will be no more than the number allowed per classification as set out in clause 9.12 unless at the Company's
discretion more people can be permitted to be absent. Previously scheduled vacations take preference over an intended leave of absence.
ARTICLE 10 SENIORITY
10.01	Employees shall receive seniority privileges after they have completed a total of 640 hours worked, accumulated within a six (6) month period, after which seniority will be shown on the seniority list to have commenced on the date of employment. Notwithstanding the above, voluntary resignation shall terminate any accumulation of service. Employees hired after December 15, 2007 or date of ratification will be considered probationary for a full six (6) months for all attendance related matters.
10.02	All seniority rights shall be terminated on:
1.	Voluntary resignation - an employee who has been absent without report for four (4) or more shifts and thereafter at the discretion of the Company, shall be considered to have voluntarily resigned.
2.	Discharge - provided such employee is not reinstated with seniority rights through
the provisions of the grievance procedure.
3.	Failure to return to work in accordance with recall regulations as set out in Article
11 or after termination of approved leave of absence.
4.	If the employee quits or retires.
10.03	Seniority may be accumulated only when on the active payroll, except when absent by reason of injury, sickness or written leave of absence.
10.04	In cases of curtailment of production indicating layoff of employees, discussion will be held between the Company and the Union to discuss the advisability of waiving seniority rules.
ARTICLE 11 LAYOFFS AND RECALLS
11.01	Seniority must be exercised as follows in the case of layoffs and recalls:
1.	By occupational group.
2.	If an employee has earned qualified rate in another occupational group or department and is still physically capable, the employee's seniority shall be recognized. Satisfactory previous experience requires having earned qualified rate in such other occupational group or department or having enough previous experience to enable the employee to perform that job as a qualified employee within forty (40) working hours.
OR
The employee shall be entitled to be transferred to a job in any department which is held by an employee with less seniority, provided the employee is capable of performing that job as a qualified employee within one hundred and twenty (120) working hours. It is understood that certain jobs require certificates or extensive
training that would make it difficult to become qualified in a timely manner and
therefore they are exciuaea irom me joos mat an employee may Dump to. tnese jobs would De:
Millwright
Machinist
Powerhouse and Utilities Mechanic
Electrician
Electrical Technician
Fixer
Fixer Overhauler
Process Control Technician
Loom Technician
Loom Technician Overhauler
Weaver
Spin Take Up
Process Engineering Technician	Inspector
Quality Control Inspector	Lubrication Inspector
11.02	In order to transfer to Assistant Stores, Shipping/Receiving, an employee must have a valid Firestone Textiles approved towmotor license.
11.03	When laid off, employees will be allowed one transfer only from their occupational group under this section. The above-mentioned one hundred and twenty (120) working hours qualification period will not apply to a senior employee who is displacing a probationary employee in a production classification. However, such employees must show progress towards qualified status for that classification in accordance with standard practice.
11.04	During a recall anyone who bumped a less senior employee in another department must go back to his or her original classification and shift or go on layoff. Such employees do not have the choice of waiving recall and staying on the job they bumped. This reinforces the policy that a permanent job classification change can only be achieved through a job posting. The training times for layoff or recall can be extended by mutual agreement between the Company and the Union.
11.05	Students may be employed from April 15th to September 15th and December 20th to January
8th All students and probationary employees shall be laid oil prior to the layoff of any regular full-time employee.
11.06	Employees laid off with more than 640 hours but less than two (2) years seniority shall retain their seniority for a layoff period of one year. Employees with two (2) years or more service with the Company shall retain their seniority for a period of two (2) years. Employees laid off with more than 640 hours' seniority shall accumulate seniority for a period of one (1) year or a period of time equal to their seniority at time of layoff, whichever is the lesser.
11.07	Recalled employees must report within three (3) days and return to work within seven (7) days after notification by registered mail to their last known address. Should they fail
to report within three (3) full working days, but do report within thirty (30) calendar days, they will be eligible for the next vacancy for which they are qualified, otherwise the employee shall be deemed to have lost all seniority rights.
11.08	Laid off employees must notify the Human Resources Department of any change
in address and keep their addresses up to date at all times or their names will be removed from the recall list.
11.09	Employees desiring to leave the employ of the Company shall give seven (7) days notice where possible.
11.10	The Company will not be obliged to follow the seniority rules when laying off employees for less than three (3) and two (2) days of work, with eight (8) and twelve (12) hour shifts respectively, provided that such layoffs do not result in lost time for any employee of more than five (5) and four (4) days of work, for eight (8) and twelve (12) hour shifts respectively, in any eight (8) month period. All such layoffs will be by seniority within shift and classification.
11.11	(a) Seniority lists will be brought up to date four (4) times annually and posted on the
bulletin board, as well as a copy given to the Union Committee.
(b) In the case of any grievance dealing with seniority dates, pertinent information in
the employment records shall be made available for Union committee examination.
11.12	An employee who returns to the bargaining unit within a period of twelve (12) months shall return to their previous occupation and shift. They shall maintain seniority on the basis of Company service, otherwise such employee shall be required to return as a new hire with the exception of service related benefits.
11.13	An employee shall have plant seniority considered as occupational seniority after receiving qualified rate in that occupational group, but may hold plant seniority in only one occupational group.
11.14	An employee who has been transferred from one occupational group to another to
fulfill seniority requirements may make written application to the Human Resources Manager within three (3) months of transfer, and will be given the privilege of the next vacancy in their former group, provided at the time of transfer they were earning qualified rate in that group.
11.15	(a) Seniority shall apply in the case of promotion or demotion, provided the employee has the necessary occupational and physical qualifications. Employees wishing to transfer to a different job classification should make application in writing to the Human Resources Manager, specifying the job classification requested. All applications will be acknowledged.
ARTICLE 12 JOB POSTING
12.01	When a permanent vacancy occurs within the bargaining unit, notice shall be posted on the bulletin boards in Plant 2 and Plant 3 for a period of three (3) calendar days. Any notice posted on a Friday shall remain until Tuesday - 4:00 p.m., unless there is a paid holiday on Monday in which case the notice will remain until Wednesday - 4:00 p.m.
12.02	Any duplication of vacancies resulting from the posting of the original vacancy will not be
subject to posung anu candidates from me nisi posting ior me duplicate vacancy win ue
considered in such cases.
12.03	However, the Company may temporarily fill the vacancy with the most senior of qualified applicants who have submitted applications prior to the vacancy occurring. If, subsequently, a senior employee qualified under the above-mentioned posting bids for the job within the posting period, the senior employee shall be given the opportunity and the junior employee previously transferred shall return to the job they vacated.
12.04	An application for transfer is considered as granted from the date ofjob posting. A successful applicant will not be permitted to apply for another posting for a period of fifteen (15) months, with the exception of a higher qualified job. However, the employee will be given an opportunity to transfer if there are no other eligible employee(s) wishing to transfer to the classification in question before the company would recruit from outside.
12.05	Probationary employees may not bid on any job postings. Any employee who is transferred to a new classification through job posting, and is subsequently removed from the job by the Company during the training period, for reasons other than discharge, shall return to their previous occupation and shift. Employees who are retained on the job will have their performance reviewed on a monthly basis until they reach qualified rate. However, within five (5) shifts of a transfer, an employee will have the option of returning to their previous occupation and shift.
12.06	An employee who accepts a job posting and has previously accepted the same occupation and subsequently returned to their previous shift and occupation, will not have the option of returning to their previous shift and occupation within five (5) shifts, but will be entitled to a two (2) shift orientation in the occupation he/she has applied for, and
have the option of returning to their previous occupation and shift.
12.07	The loiiowing factors will be considered in evaluating an employees skill, competence and ability, related to the performance of the work for which they are a candidate.
1.	Physical requirement of the occupation and physical qualifications of a candidate.
2.	Results of aptitude tests.
3.	Satisfactory performance on present occupation for previous six (6) months.
4.	Verified experience gained outside the Company on a similar occupation or occupations which are related to the occupation for which they are a candidate.
5.	Satisfactory performance or past experience, if any, on the occupation which is vacant.
6 Licenses or specified educational standards where required.
It is understood that some of the above-mentioned factors will have more relative importance than others, depending on the occupational vacancy.
12.08	The initial determination of capabilities and qualifications where it may apply to seniority shall be a exclusive function of management, with consideration of the factors set out in 12.07 but the final determination of capabilities and qualifications shall be subject to the grievance procedure.
12.09	Occupational seniority shall be recognized in the matter of shift preference when vacancies occur. Applications for shift preference will be accepted by the Department Manager or the Human Resources Department up until the time the posting is removed. However, the Company reserves the righ
to transfer the least senior qualified employee, as required, to maintain a balance of qualified employe and trainees on each shift. If such qualified employee is required by the Company to transfer to another shift for training purposes, this employee will be given the opportunity to return to their
original shift when the trainee receives qualified rate on that job.
ARTICLE 13 GENERAL
13.01	The Union recognizes the necessity for improved production, elimination of
waste of materials and supplies and improved quality of workmanship and following notification will co-operate in effecting changes in method, product, and equipment.
13.02	The Company agrees to provide a bulletin board to be located in the plant in a
location designated by the Company. The use of such bulletin board shall be restricted to local Union notices, Union social and recreational meetings, election of Union officers and Union election results. All notices shall be signed by Chief Steward of the Union prior to posting and a notification sent to Human Resources. If for any reason a notice or notices cannot be posted, the Union shall be advised as soon as possible.
13.03	The Company is responsible for the administration and application of any insurance policy established in order to provide the benefits set out herein in Schedule "C", and any difference arising with respect thereto will be disposed of in accordance with the grievance and arbitration provisions of this Agreement.
13.04	Once an employee has received their initial lump sum payment for safety shoes,
they will then go onto the credit accumulation system which effective December 15, 2002 will credit them $8.00 per month, increasing to $10.00 per month effective December 17, 2006. Employees on layoff will not be reimbursed until they return to work.
13.05	The Company will contribute $500.00 per year to the United Food & Commercial Workers Union Local 175 Training and Education Fund.
ARTCILE 14 WAGES AGREEMENT
WAGE AGREEMENT
Textiles Company, a Division of Bridgestone/Firestone Canada Inc., Woodstock, Ontario,
hereinafter designated as "the Company" and the United Food and Commercial Workers Local
175, hereinafter designated as "the Union".
The general wage scale having been negotiate d, it is hereby mutually agreed:
1. The Company will make wage increases to employees covered by the Collective
Agreement in the amounts and effective on the following dates:
A.	Effective December 15, 2007 $0.40/hour to existing rates
B.	Effective December 14, 2008 $0.45/hour to existing rates
C.	Effective December 13, 2009, $0.45/hour to existing rates
(All of the above are exclusive of accumulated C.O.L.A.)
2 . The C.O.L.A. clause that existed in the Collective Agreement effective December 18, 1986 will remain inactive for the duration of the current Agreement. The C.O.L.A. float of forty-seven (47) cents will be paid on a lump sum basis in addition to the straight time hourly earnings of each employee. This allowance will be paid on all hours worked. However, the allowance shall not be included in the computation of overtime premium. This allowance shall
be included in the computation of pay for unworked statutory holidays and bereavement leave,	
but shall not be included in any C.O.L.A. will be as follows:	other pay for time not worked. The schedule for the payment of
A. Payment Period	Payment Date
12/15/07 - 03/01/08	March 14, 2008
03/02/03 - 06/07/08	June 20, 2008
06/08/08- 09/06/08	September 19, 2008
09/07/08 - 12/13/08	December 24, 2008
12/14/08 - 03/07/09	March 20, 2009
03/08/09 - 06/06/09	June 19, 2009
06/07/09 - 09/05/09	September 18, 2009
09/06/09 - 12/12/09	December 24, 2009
12/13/09 - 03/06/10	March 19, 2010
03/07/10 - 06/05/10	June 18, 2010
06/06/10 - 09/04/10	September 17, 2010
09/05/10 - 12/11/10	December 24, 2010
pplementary Wage Schedule
Qualifed Rates
ant 2	Dec 15/07	Dec 14/08	Dec 13/09	12 hr. Premium
ister Tender	17.45	17.9	18.35	1.93
ister Operator	17.37	17.82	18.27	1.93
ect Cabler Operator	17.37	17.82	18.27	1.97
iaver	17.52	17.97	18.42	2.22
om Technician (max.)	18.84	19.29	19.74	2.3
om Technician Overhauls (max)	19.28	19.73	20.18	1.93
neral Utility- Cat I (creeling, licing and Tying In)	17.37	17.82	18.27	1.96
neral Utility- Cat II - Cat I & le Changes and Twisting	17.45	17.9	18.35	1.99
distant Utility	17.45	17.9	18.35	1.96
ianer - Janitor- Waste Control	17.2	17.65	18.1	1.9
pector	17.4	17.85	18.3	1.95
claim Utility Operator	17.37	17.82	18.27	1.93
licer Operator	17.4	17.85	18.3	1.95
nder	17.2	17.65	18.1	1.9
nder Cat I	17.35	17.8	18.25	1.92
amer Operator	17.45	17.9	18.35	1.96
ant 3 awtwist/Drawwind Operator	17.45	17.9	18.35	1.96
in, Take Up Operator	18	18.45	18.9	2.06
ocess Control Technician	18.38	18.83	19.28	2.13
laner-Janitor	17.07	17.52	17.97	1.88
nder-Packer	17.68	18.13	18.58	1.92
processing & Drying Operator	17.45	17.9	18.35	1.96
ocess Engineering Techncian	18.84	19.29	19.74	2.09
ant 2 and 3, Warehouse d Service Department sistant Stores, Shipping-ceiving	17.87	18.32	18.77	2.04
rekeeper	17.93	18.38	18.83	2.05
pper-Receiver	18.59	19.04	19.49	2.06
ality Control Inspector	17.4	17.85	18.3	1.95
meral Maintenance lwright (maximum)	25.61	0.45 26.06	0.9 26.51	2.65
chinist	25.61	26.06	26.51	2.65
werhouse & Utilities Mechanic aximum)	25.61	26.06	26.51	2.65
werhouse & Utilities Techncian aximum)	19.34	19.79	20.24	2.3
sctrician (maximum)	25.61	26.06	26.51	2.65
ctrical Technician (maximum)	29	29.45	29.9	3.19
er- Twisting, DrawTwist, Spin ke Up (maximum)	18.84	19.29	19.74	2.22
er- Twisting, DrawTwist, Spin ke Up Twister Overhauls aximum)	19.28	19.73	20.18	2.3
intenance Helper	17.8	18.25	18.7	2.02
brication Service	17.78	18.23	18.68	2.02
brication Inspector	19.31	19.76	20.21	2.3
Plant #2 and #3
Sub Supervisor ...
Towmotor Operator ...
Trainers Rate ...
Loom Technician Loom Technician - Overhaul - Fixer - Twisting; Drawtwist; Spin. Take -up Fixer - Twisting; Drawtwist Spin. Take-up: Twister Overhaul
Certificate of Qualification
Employees who assume additional responsibilities in the absence of a Supervisor will be paid one dollar ($1) per hour in addition to their regular hourly rate.
These additional duties may only be assumed for a period of not more than three (3) consecutive months at which time the employee will be removed from the bargaining unit, unless extended by mutual consent. If such employee returns to the bargaining unit they will return to their previous occupation and shift.
Sub Supervisors will be used to cover for absence due to vacation, holidays, illness and for Sub Supervisory training.
Employees who obtain a towmotor license will be paid twenty-five (25) cents per hour in addition to their regular hourly rate for all hours they operate a towmotor.
In the event an employee is directed by the Company to train another employee they will receive fifty (50) cents per hour in addition to their regular hourly rate for the hours they have been assigned to train.
Receive ten (10) cents for completing
seven (7) years experience in any
Combination of these classifications. (Maximum rate in these classifications includes this ten (10) cents.)
The company will pay for any provincial certificate qualification that it requires.
MINIMUM HIRING RATE
A new employee's rate shall be increased in line with progress until they reach qualified rate, but in any event this period shall not exceed six (6) months. Except for the following categories , Loom Technician, Fixer-Twisting; Drawtwist; Spin Take-Up, Machinist, Electrician, Electrical Technician, Millwright classifications which shall not exceed twelve (12) months.
Terms of Apprenticeship
The apprentice training program will follow the regulations and training schedules as laid out by the Ontario Ministry of Skills Development, under the Apprenticeship and Trades Qualification Acts Regulation 32.
The only exception , is that apprentices in each of the trades shall be paid a progressively increasing schedul of wages, calculated in the following manner:
1st 1,000 hours (6 months) Their Present Rate (pre-posted rate)
2nd 1,000 hours Pre-Posted Base Rate + 10% of the Rate Difference 3rd 1,000 hours Pre-Posted Base Rate + 20% of the Rate Difference 4th 1,000 hours Pre-Posted Base Rate + 30% of the Rate Difference 5th 1,000 hours Pre-posted Base Rate + 40% of the Rate Difference 6th 1,000 hours Pre-posted Base Rate + 55% of the Rate Difference 7th 1,000 hours Pre-posted Base Rate + 70% of the Rate Difference 8th 1,000 hours Pre-posted Base Rate + 85% of the Rate Difference 9th 1,000 hours Pre-posted Base Rate + 90% of the Rate Difference 10th 1,000 hours Pre-Posted Base Rate + 95% of the Rate Difference
"RATE OF DIFFERENCE" shall be the difference between the pre-posted base rate of the Apprentice and the qualified base rate of pay for the skill trades position.
Apprentices who are credited hours for previous experience shall be paid accordingly to the above schedule based on the approved credited hours.
Upon successful completion of the Apprenticeship program and obtaining the applicable license the employee will receive the journeyman's qualified base rate of pay.
During the training periods, while the apprentice is going to school, the Company will continue to pay the employee's rate for a normal 40-hour week plus C.O.L.A. and benefits.
It is understood that if the Ministry disqualifies the apprentice, the employee will be removed from the apprenticeship program and will return to the position they held prior to the beginning of the apprenticeship program.
ARTICLE 13 DURATION
13.01 This agreement shall remain in force and effect until the 15th day of December
2u1 u and tnereatter trom year to year unless either party gives to the other party, notice in
writing, of cancellation within a period of not less than two (2) months or more than three (3) months prior to the anniversary date. Either party may, during the same period, require the other party to enter into negotiations for a new Agreement and both parties shall within fifteen (15) days enter into negotiations. If such negotiations are not concluded by the above expiry date, the terms and conditions of this Agreement shall remain in effect in accordance with Ontario Labour Law.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto have executed this Agreement this 12th day of December ,2007
Signed, Sealed and Delivered in the presence of:
FOR THE COMPANY:	FOR THE UNION:
FIRESTONE TEXTILES COMPANY	UNITED FOOD AND COMMERICAL WORKERS
DIVISION OF BRIDGESTONE FIRESTONE	LOCAL 175
CANADA INC.
L. RUFFO	ANGUS LOCKE
DEREK HOLMAN	JASON KRAMER
FRANK PARK	ANDY RAYMOND
BOB MACLEAN
GARTH SUTHERLAND
IAN PATERSON
SCHEDULE"A
Date ...
I hereby order Firestone Textiles Company, A Division of Bridgestone/ Firestone Canada Inc. to deduct Union Dues in accordance with the Union constitution. I understand the terms of Article 11 of the Agreement between the Company and the Union.
Witness ...
Employee ...
Clock #:
SCHEDULE "B
SUMMARY OF GROUP INSURANCE AND BENEFITS
Life Insurance	$30,000 $ 5,000 after retirement
Accidental Death & Dismemberment	$25,000
Income Protection (Sickness & Accident)	66 2/3% of gross weekly earnings to the current E.I. Maximum
Extended Health Care	Annual deductible of $10.00 (family) and $5.00 single
Dispensing fees	capped at $9.00 per prescription, to be reviewed in January of each year
Vision Care	$250 per 24 month period
Dental Care	One year Lag ODA
Safety Shoes	$10.00 per month accumulated
For further description of coverage, please see the Plan Booklet
DEFINED CONTRIBUTION PENSION PLAN
This plan is provided to employees who have completed at least one year of Company service and are under age 65. The Company shall make required contributions (as outlined below) credited to each active member's Company Contribution Account. The applicable percent contribution rate is multiplied times the employee's rate of pay, times the hours worked each week.
Completed Years
Contribution
of Seniority
Rate
1-9	3.0%
10-14	3.1%
15-19	3.6%
20-24	4.3%
25-29	5.3%
30-34	7.0%
35 or more	9.5%
Note: Employees hired after December 15, 2007 will have contributions capped at 3%.
In addition to the Company contribution, employees may elect to make contributions to the Plan. Such contributions, together with Company contributions, shall not exceed, in any Plan Year, the pension adjustment limit.
Each employee is entitled to all benefits earned after completion of two (2) years'
membership in the Plan. All contributions made under the previous contributory
retirement income plan will remain in the plan and the benefits earned will be
added to the benefits under the new plan to determine the total retirement income.
The Plan text has authority in the event of ambiguity or conflict.
NOTE: Investment options are available, see the Human Resources Department for details.
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT MAINTENANCE DEPARTMENT RELIEF PLANTS NOS. 2 AND 3
UNSCHEDULED ABSENTEEISM
A.	For Night Shifts, Weekends or Holidays, Twelve-Hour Shifts:
The shift mechanic shall have the first opportunity to cover for unscheduled absenteeism. If that mechanic(s) cannot be reached or is not able to cover, then the qualified day shift mechanics can be called to cover in order of highest seniority. Then the day shift mechanic shall be paid time and one-half their hourly rate for all hours worked in excess of eight hours per day except for Saturday and holidays which will be time and one-half for all hours worked and double time for all hours worked on Sunday.
B.	For Day Shifts, Monday through Friday, except Holidays, Twelve-Hour Shifts:
A qualified day shift mechanic will be required to work the twelve-hour shift and shall be paid for all hours worked in excess of eight hours at the rate of time and one-half. Overtime shall be distributed as evenly as possible among those performing such work.
Both parties reserve the right, should the above voluntary system fail, to revert to the system of coverage for unscheduled absenteeism as per the Current Agreement.
Subject to the above statement, this memorandum shall remain in effect for the duration of
the Agreement dated December 15, 2010.
FOR THE COMPANY
L. Ruffo
Human Resources Manager
FOR THE UNION
T. Kramer UFCW Local 175
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT MAINTENANCE DEPARTMENT RELIEF PLANTS NOS. 2 AND 3
SCHEDULED ABSENTEEISM
When eight (8) hour general maintenance employees provide coverage for scheduled absenteeism of twelve (12) hour rotating shift general maintenance employees, for less than a period of fourteen (14) calendar days on the same shift, payment will be made at the rate of time and one-half for all hours worked in excess of eight (8) hours per day. Hours worked on Saturdays, Sundays and Holidays will be paid as per the current Agreement.
For coverage in excess of the above, employee is considered as regular twelve (12) hour rotating shift employee and will be paid accordingly for the whole period of
coverage.
This memorandum shall remain in effect for the duration of the Agreement dated
December 15, 2010.
FOR THE COMPANY
FOR THE UNION
L. Ruffo
Human Resources Manager
J. Kramer U.F.C.W Local 175
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
SUPER SENIORITY
The Company and the Union agree that the Memorandum of Agreement "B" on the subject of "super seniority" dated January 4, 1984 shall remain in effect until all employees with "super seniority" are off the seniority lists.
FOR THE COMPANY:
FOR THE UNION:
L. Ruffo	J. Kramer
Human Resources Manager	UFCW, Local 175
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT STATUTORY HOLIDAY COVERAGE TWISTER FIXERS on A 3-WEEK SCHEDULE
Statutory Holidays falling on Monday to Thursday will be covered by the Twister Fixer scheduled to work Sunday to Thursday of the week in question. When the holiday falls on the Friday, the Twister Fixer scheduled to work Tuesday to Saturday will provide coverage.
FOR THE COMPANY
FOR THE UNION
L. Ruffo
Human Resources Manager
J. Kramer UFCW Local 175
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
DIRECT CABLER INSTALLATION
This letter will confirm our understanding with respect to the Company's decision to install Direct Cable equipment during the term of this agreement. The Company intends to reduce the number of employees who may be affected by this installation through attrition. However, should the introduction of this equipment result in the layoff of bargaining unit employees, the employee laid off as a direct result of this action may elect severance pay in lieu of remaining on the recall list. Severance pay will be two (2) weeks of pay, at the basic wage rate of the effected employee, for each year of service to a maximum of twenty-six (26) weeks pay.
a)	to be eligible for severance allowance, an employee must have at least one (1) year of service at the time of termination.
b)	Employees must first exercise their seniority under Article 9 before being eligible for the severance allowance and if offered employment within the bargaining unit they will not be entitled to the severance allowance.
c)	It is understood that the payment of such severance allowance terminates the employment relationship.
d)	All parties recognize that this agreement applies to a reduction in the work force as a direct result of the direct cabler installation in Plant 2 expansion area. Any reduction in the work force due to changes in business requirements, other process changes etc. are exempt from the conditions of this letter and will be handled as per Article 9 - Seniority in the collective agreement.
Letter of Understanding
The parties agree that the overtime system outlined in the Collective Agreement will be followed.