C O L L E C T I V E
A G R E E M E N T
B Y A N D B E T W E E N:
THE CAMBRIDGE TOWEL CORPORATION
(hereinafter designated as the "Company")
- A N D -
UNION OF NEEDLETRADES, INDUSTRIAL AND
EMPLOYEES
AFL-CIO.CLC
(hereinafter designated as the "Union")
TEXTILE
1
EXPIRY DATE:	OCTOBER 31,	2003
2
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
INDEX
GENERAL PURPOSE
RECOGNITION
MANAGEMENT FUNCTIONS
DISCRIMINATION AND UNION ACTIVITY
STEWARDS
GRIEVANCE TIME LIMITATIONS
ARBITRATION
STRIKES AND LOCKOUTS
SENIORITY PROVISIONS
WAGES
WORK STANDARDS
HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
PLANT HOLIDAYS
VACATIONS
SAFETY AND HEALTH
BULLETIN BOARDS
UNION SECURITY
CORRESPONDENCE
MODIFICATION, RENEWAL AND TERMINATION
3
4
WAGES
43
SCHEDULE ”		A”			44
SCHEDULE ”		B”			47
SCHEDULE ”		C”			48
LETTER	OF	INTENT	NO.	1	50
LETTER	OF	INTENT	NO.	2	51
LETTER	OF	INTENT	NO.	3	52
LETTER	OF	INTENT	NO.	4	53
LETTER	OF	INTENT	NO.	5	54
5
THIS AGREEMENT entered into at Cambridge, Ontario as of the 1st day of November, 1999.
B Y A N D B E T W E E N:
THE CAMBRIDGE TOWEL CORPORATION
(hereinafter designated as the "Company")
(a) and -
UNION OF NEEDLETRADES, INDUSTRIAL AND TEXTILE
EMPLOYEES
AFL-CIO.CLC
(hereinafter designated as the "Union")
W I T N E S S E T H:
ARTICLE 1
GENERAL PURPOSE
1.01
This Agreement is entered into by the parties hereto in order to provide for orderly collective bargaining relations between the Company and their employees. It is the desire of all these parties to co-operate in maintaining an harmonious relationship
6
between the Company and their employees, and to amicably settle differences or grievances which may arise from time to time hereunder in the manner hereinafter set out.
ARTICLE 2
RECOGNITION
2.01
2.02
2.03
The Company recognizes the Union as the exclusive collective bargaining agency with respect to all matters arising under this Agreement for all their employees employed in or about their mill situated in Cambridge, Ontario, save and except assistant Supervisor, assistant foreladies, persons above the rank of assistant Supervisor and assistant forelady, laboratory personnel, designing and office staff, and persons regularly employed for not more than twenty-four (24) hours per week.	No current
bargaining unit job classifications will become a management/salary position without the approval and written consent of the Local Union Executive Committee and the union's staff regional representative.
"Employee" defined
The word "employee" or "employees", wherever used in this Agreement, shall mean any or all of the employees in the bargaining unit as defined above except where the context otherwise provides.
Where the masculine pronoun is used herein it shall mean and include the feminine pronoun where the context so applies.
MANAGEMENT FUNCTIONS
ARTICLE 3
3.01	The Union acknowledges that it is the exclusive
function of the Company to:
(a) maintain order, discipline and efficiency;
7
3.02	(b)	hire, discharge, classify, direct, transfer, promote demote and suspend or otherwise discipline employees, subject to the provisions of this Agreement; and (c)	generally manage the industrial enterprise in which the Company are engaged, including all matters concerning the operation of the Company's business not specifically dealt with elsewhere in this Agreement, and without restricting the generality of the foregoing, to determine the products to be manufactured, methods of manufacture, schedule of production, kinds and locations of machines and tools to be used, process of manufacturing, the engineering and designing of their products, the control of the materials and parts to be incorpor-ated in the products produced, the extension, limitations, curtailment, or cessation of operations. The Company agrees that these functions will be subject to, and exercised in a manner consistent with the terms of this Agreement and the rights of the Union.
	ARTICLE 4
DISCRIMINATION AND UNION ACTIVITY
4.01	There will be no discrimination, intimidation or coercion by the Company, their officers or represent-atives, or by the Union, its officers or members, against any employee for any reason.
4.02	No Union activities shall be pursued on the Company' premises except as permitted by this Agreement, or with prior approval of the Company. ARTICLE 5
STEWARDS	
8
5.01
5.02
5.03
The Company acknowledges the right of the Union to appoint or otherwise select stewards, who shall be permanent regular employees with seniority.
The Union will supply the Company with a list of stewards. The Company will be notified in writing each time a steward resigns or is appointed and will not be required to recognize, as a steward, any employee whose name does not appear on the list.
In the event of the resignation of a steward, the Union will insure that the vacancy is filled within two (2) calendar weeks thereafter, and the name of the new steward delivered to the Company. The above time limit may be extended by mutual agreement.
CHIEF STEWARDS
In addition to the stewards, the Company will recognize a Chief Steward who may be appointed or otherwise selected to represent the plant.
PAYMENT TO UNION EXECUTIVE MEMBERS AND STEWARDS
The Company agrees to pay for Union Committee members, and relevant Union Stewards for all time spent in "on or off site meetings" with management.
Such time will be paid at the rate of straight time, which shall include hours outside their regular schedule shifts.
The Company agrees to pay the individual members of the Union committee for all lost time by them during contract negotiations for the renewal of the Collective Agreement.
It is further understood that no committee member shall lose any of their regular scheduled hours on any negotiating day, regardless of the arranged start and quit times for each day, but shall receive payment at straight time for all time, which exceeds their regular scheduled hours, including any off shift days.
9
It is further agreed that the union negotiating committee will not be required to report to their work duties on any negotiating days, regardless of the start and quit times during the renewal of the Collective Agreement negotiating days. Such days shall include the first day of exchanging proposals up to and including conciliation and/or mediation.
5.04
5.05
PERMISSION TO ACT DURING WORKING HOURS
It is understood that stewards have their regular duties to perform on behalf of the Company. If it is necessary for a steward to service a grievance during working hours, he shall not leave his department without first securing permission from his immediate supervisor.
If requested, he shall give a reasonable explanation of why he deems such action to be necessary.
When resuming his regular duties, he shall again report to his supervisor.
Should it become necessary for a steward, in the performance of his duties as a steward, to contact another employee, he will first secure the permission of such other person's supervisor. Such permission will not be unreasonably delayed and/or unreasonably denied.
Union executive members and union stewards, who are
working on a shift when a scheduled, will be allowed two without pay, to attend such otherwise arranged and agreed expected to promptly return to two hour time frame.
union meeting is (2) hours off work, meetings. Unless such employees are work following the
MEETINGS WITH MANAGEMENT
Where it is grievers or
necessary
witnesses
for Union representatives, to meet with Management
10
5.06
5.07
represent-atives, permission for time off will not be unreasonably delayed and/or unreasonably denied.
UNION COMMITTEE
When it is necessary for the Union to confer with the Company on any matter (s), a committee of four (4) seniority	employees, assisted by a Union
represent- ative, shall represent the members of the bargaining unit. For purposes of this provision, the term "Union representative" shall not be restricted to	regional representatives of the
U.N.I.T.E. Council, or other employees of the International Union, nor shall the provision be construed as limiting the calling of such witness as may be required.
When meetings take place between the Company and the Union for purposes other than for the renewal of the collective agreement, grievance meetings, and arbitra-tion hearings, the Company reserves the right to limit participation by bargaining unit members to a reasonable number from each affected classification for a particular committee or subcommittee provided that in exercising this right, they refrain from making capricious and arbitrary decisions.
Leave of Absence will be granted to delegated members to attend Union conventions, conferences and schools. All requests for Leave of Absence shall be made in writing to the Personnel Department three (3) months prior to date of intended leave stating the reason for the leave and requested duration thereof. Leave of Absence may be granted to delegated members to attend Union activities, as stated above, when the written request is submitted with less than three (3) months' notice to the Company. Such Leave shall not be unreasonably withheld.
ARTICLE 6
11
GRIEVANCE TIME LIMITATIONS
6.01
6.02
An employee may not lodge a grievance on any subject unless he has first presented the subject as a complaint to his Supervisor within ten (10) calendar days of the occurrence or within ten (10) calendar days of the date whereon the employee could be assumed to have known of the occurrence, and further, the employee presents the written grievance to his Supervisor within ten (10) working days of the date whereon the employee received the Supervisor's answer to the original complaint.
GRIEVER RESPONSIBILITY
If an employee has a grievance, it shall be reduced to writing on forms supplied by the Union. It is agreed that pending the investigation and settlement of his grievance, the employee will not be absolved from performing the duties assigned to him, subject to the provisions of the Occupational Health and Safety Act. The grievance will then be taken up in the following manner and sequence.
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
STEP NO. 1
Between the aggrieved employee, departmental steward and the Department Manager involved. The Department Manager shall render his decision in writing within three (3) working days. Failing settlement, it shall be taken up within three (3) working days as follows.
STEP NO. 2
Between the aggrieved employee, departmental steward and the Plant Manager. The decision shall be given in writ-ing within five (5) working days. Failing settlement, it shall be taken up within five (5) working days as follows.
STEP NO. 3
12
6.03
6.04
6.05
6.06
Between the grievance committee and Management Commit-tee. A representative of the Union may be present at this stage at the request of either of the parties, and the decision shall be given in writing within five (5) working days.
ARBITRATION
Failing a settlement under the above procedure of any difference concerning the interpretation or adminis- tration of this Agreement, including any question as to whether a matter is arbitrable or whether an allegation is made that this agreement has been violated, the matter in dispute may be taken to arbitration as provided in Article 7, and if no written request is received within thirty-one (31) calendar days of the Company's reply to Step No. 3, the grievance shall be deemed to have been settled or abandoned.
POLICY GRIEVANCE
Any difference or grievance arising directly between the Company and the Union may be submitted in writing by either party at step No. 3.
WITNESSES
At any stage of the grievance procedure, including arbitration, the conferring parties may have the assistance of the employee or employees concerned and any necessary witnesses,	and all	reasonable
arrange- ments will be made to permit the conferring parties to have access to the plant to view disputed operations and to confer	with the necessary
witnesses.
TIME LIMIT EXTENSIONS
Any and all time limits fixed by this Article and Article 7 may, at any time, be extended by written agreement between the Company and the Union.
13
6.07
DECISIONS BINDING
6.08
6.09
6.10
6.11
All decisions arrived at between the Company and the representatives of the Union shall be final and binding upon the Company, the Union, and the employee or employees concerned.
PROBATIONARY RELEASE
A new employee will be considered as a probationary employee until he has actually completed four hundred and sixty (460) hours of work for the Company in a period of six (6) consecutive months. The Union may question and/or grieve any discipline or lay-off of a probationary employee.
NOTICE OF DISCHARGE
In cases of discharge, the Company will have a Union Committee member present at the discharge meeting, to enable such employee his representation. Should a Union Representative not be available then the Company must inform the Union of all the facts as soon as possible.
UNJUST DISCHARGE CLAIMS
A claim by a permanent seniority employee that he has been unjustly discharged shall be treated as a grievance if a written, signed statement of such grievance is lodged with the Personnel Manager within five (5) working days of the discharge date, and Steps Nos. 1 and 2 of the Grievance Procedure will be omitted in such cases.
Such discharge grievances may be settled under the grievance and arbitration procedures by:
(a)	confirming the Company's action in dismissing
the permanent employee;
14
(b)	reinstating the employee with full compensation for time lost; or
(c)	by any other arrangement which may be deemed just and equitable.
ARTICLE 7
ARBITRATION
7.01	After having completed Step No. 3 of the grievance procedure, either party may request the matter be submitted to arbitration, as herein provided, it shall make such request in writing addressed to the other party to this agreement, within thirty-one (31) calendar days, advising the other party of its intent to proceed to arbitration. In said written notice the party shall propose its nominees to act as a sole arbitrator.
Should that Party's nominees be unacceptable, the other Party shall propose alternate names. If the parties cannot agree on the selection of an arbitrator within fifteen (15) calendar days after the date the original written notice was received, either party may request the Ontario Minister of Labour to appoint one.	The decision of the
arbitrator shall be final and binding on both Parties.
The time limits specified in the foregoing may be extended by mutual agreement.
7.02	No matter may be submitted to arbitration, which has
not been properly carried through all the required steps of the grievance procedure, except as may be agreed upon at	Step No.	3 of the grievance
procedure.
7.03	No person may be appointed as an arbitrator who has been involved in an attempt to negotiate or settle the grievance.
15
7.04	The arbitrator shall not be authorized to make any decision inconsistent with the provisions of this Agreement, nor to alter, modify or amend any part of this Agreement.
7.05	The expenses of the arbitrator shall be shared jointly by the Company and the Union.
7.06	Nothing in this Article shall preclude either party from applying for arbitration under the expedited section of the Ontario Labour Relations Act (presently Section 49). ARTICLE 8
STRIKES	AND LOCKOUTS
8.01	In view of the orderly procedure for settling grievances, the Company agree that they will not cause or direct any lockout of their employees. The Union agrees that there will be no strike, slowdown or other concerted activity on the part of the employees in the bargaining unit which will stop, curtail or interfere with work or production.
ARTICLE 9
SENIORITY PROVISIONS
9.01	Seniority will be based on the length of the employee's continuous service with the Company.
9.02	PROBATIONARY PERIOD
	A new employee will be considered on probation and will not be placed on the seniority list until he has actually completed four hundred and sixty (460) hours of work for the Company in a period of six (6) consecutive months and his seniority shall commence to accrue from the date he actually commenced to work for the Company as a bargaining unit employee. The provisions of this sub-section 9.02 shall apply only to employees hired on a permanent basis. They
16
9.03
9.04
shall not apply to employees hired on a temporary basis to replace employees on the permanent staff who may be absent due to illness, leave of absence, or for other legitimate reasons, nor will they apply to persons temporarily hired to meet some emergency.
The employment of persons hired as temporary employees shall not exceed seven hundred and twenty (720) hours of work unless extended by mutual consent of the parties hereto.
Such temporary employees shall have no seniority, nor shall their probationary periods commence until such time as they are confirmed in what is considered a permanent assignment.
PREFERENTIAL SENIORITY
Notwithstanding their ordinary status under the provisions of this article, departmental stewards of the Union and Union committee members during their respect-ive terms of office, but not otherwise, shall enjoy top seniority within their own departments, first and then on a plant wide basis for the purpose of layoff and recall. If a steward or committee member is suspended for misconduct or other just cause, any rights or privileges he is entitled to under the provisions of Clause 9.03 shall not apply to him during the term of his suspension.
SENIORITY LISTS
Separate seniority lists shall be established for each of the following departments or groups of departments.
1.	Preparation		5.	Dyehouse
2.	Weaving		6.	Finishing
3.	Maintenance		7.	Fashion
4.	Shipping	8.	Bath	Boutique
Seniority lists will be provided on demand.
17
9.05
TRANSFERS
An employee transferred from one department or group of departments to another shall retain his seniority in his former group for a period of thirty (30) working days, after which time his seniority shall be credited to the department, in which he is then working, unless this period is extended by mutual agreement of the parties.
18
9.06
TEMPORARY TRANSFERS
9.07
9.08
In cases of temporary transfers for less than sixty (60) days, or any longer period by mutual agreement between the Company and the Union, the employee shall retain his seniority in the original group from which he was transferred. It is agreed that the Union will be provided with a copy of any such temporary transfer that is expected to exceed one hundred and twenty (120) working hours.
NOTICE OF LAYOFF
Except in cases of emergency, the Company will give twenty-four (24) hours notice, to all affected employees where a temporary layoff is likely to exceed one regularly scheduled working week, as defined in Schedule B. In the case of permanent layoffs, the Company will give notice in accordance with the Employment Standards Act.
LAYOFF AND RECALL
(a)	In the event of a layoff, the most junior employee(s) in the classification and shift affected will use their seniority to exercise their bumping rights as follows:
OPTION A	By	seniority,	the	laid	off	employee
may displace	a junior employee in	the	specified
group of classifications, where applicable, or;
OPTION B	By	seniority,	the	laid	off	employee
may retain the classification and displace a junior employee on another shift, or;
OPTION C	By	seniority,	the	laid	off	employee
may choose to retain a position on their current shift and displace the most junior employee in the department, provided they have the skills and qualifications to perform the required work. If they are not qualified to perform this job,
19
9.09
they may displace the most junior employee in the plant. If they fail to qualify for this job, they will be laid off.
(b)	RECALL
When the Company decides to increase the work force in the plant, the laid-off employees will be recalled in order of seniority, provided that the employee is capable of performing the required work.
JOB POSTING
(a)	All vacancies except temporary vacancies will be
posted on the bulletin boards for one calendar week. Only the initial vacancy and the first subsequent vacancy are required to be posted.
Such postings shall include the job, rate of pay,	the shift and any other	pertinent
information. Employees may apply by signing their names to the "Application for Job Posting" form.	A summary of the posting shall be
provided to the Union.
(b)	The Company shall select the applicant who possesses
the required qualifications, skills and abilities to perform the job, and is the most senior of all qualified applicants. The Company shall post the name of the successful applicant within one calendar week and place them in their position as soon as practical. If no qualified applications for a posting are received, the Company may fill the vacancy by hiring from outside the Bargaining Unit.
(c)	When new machinery displaces any employee from an
existing classification, the Company may give them preference in filling the job created by such new machinery. The Company agrees to post
20
notice of any remaining vacancy, which shall be filled subject to the provisions of this clause.
(d)	Successful applicants (meaning those who are awarded and stay in the position for sixty (60) calendar days), to a posting may not apply for further postings for a period of six (6) months from the date of last posting.
(e)	If a successful applicant later proves unable to perform the job successfully at any time within the
first sixty (60) calendar days or if during the first fifteen (15) calendar days, he requests to be returned to his former job, he shall be returned to his former job and shift as soon as reasonably possible. Notwithstanding the above, an employee who has successfully posted to a lower paying job classification, shall not have the right to return to his previous job under any circumstances without the approval of management.
(f) While the Company is in the	process of filling a
vacancy or new job on a permanent basis. The experience, which such employee gains while performing in such temporary capacity, however, shall not be taken into account by the Company when selecting the most qualified applicant for this vacancy.
9.10	PROMOTIONS
In the case of promotions, shift changes within a classification and opportunities for advancement within the bargaining unit, seniority shall be the deciding factor, provided the employees concerned have relatively equal qualifications.
9.11	UNJUST DEMOTION CLAIMS
21
9.12
9.13
9.14
In the case of demotions, if an employee feels he has been treated unjustly he shall have recourse to the grievance procedure and return to his previous job if it is found he was unjustly demoted.
SUPERVISORY PROMOTIONS
Promotions to supervisory positions shall not be subject to the provisions of this Agreement. It is clearly understood that Supervisor and assistant Supervisor will only perform jobs related to their position.
An employee who is transferred to a position which is not in the bargaining unit shall retain his seniority rights for six (6) months and their job rights for a period of sixty (60) calendar days.
It is understood and agreed that Company service will accumulate but that seniority shall not accumulate during this absence from the Bargaining Unit. Seniority dates shall be adjusted upon reentry into the Bargaining Unit.
LOSS OF SENIORITY
An employee shall lose all seniority and the employee's employment shall be deemed to be terminated under the following conditions:
(a) voluntarily quits the employ of the Company (see Letter of Intent);
(b) is justifiably discharged;
(c)	following a lay-off and return,
fails to advise the Company of his intention to return, within eight (8) days notification;
on being notified
within five (5) days and fails to return of receiving such
to
(d)	is absent without proper notification to the Company
22
9.15
9.16
for more than one (1) working day. An employee having been absent without proper notification to the Company for more than one (1) working day may be considered to have severed his employment with the Company if, having been given a reasonable opportunity (having regard to all the circum-stances) he should fail to present proof of his inability to notify the Company;
(e)	has been laid off in excess of the allowable periods below:
(i) Employees with three to twelve months seniority; allowable break equivalent to seniority.
(ii)	Employees with twelve months seniority or more; shall retain recall rights for a maximum of one year from the date of lay-off.
An employee may be laid off while on a leave of
absence, and such employee's lay-off shall be considered to have started at the time of the lay-off and not at the start of the leave of absence.
ADDRESS CHANGES
It shall be the duty of employees to notify the Company promptly of any change of address or telephone number. If an employee should fail to do this, the Company will not be responsible for failure of a notice to reach him.
An employee shall not lose any seniority because of absence due to sickness, accident or other unavoidable reasons, subject to the provisions of 9.15 above. If an employee finds that he is unable to report for work, he will notify the Personnel Office during office hours or his own Supervisor before the start of his shift, or as soon thereafter as possible.
23
An employee who is receiving Worker's Compensation or Weekly Indemnity payments shall notify the Company as soon as possible when he is available to return to work and shall provide the Company with a medical Certificate. The Company shall not be required to allow such an employee to return to work unless it has been notified during the prior shift of the employee's intention to return to work.
9.17	LEAVE OF ABSENCE
(a) Leave of absence may be granted for legitimate
reasons. It is agreed that such leave will not be unreasonably withheld. All requests for leave of absence shall be made in writing to the Personnel Department three (3) months prior to date of intended leave stating the reason for the leave and the requested duration thereof. A copy of an employee's request for leave of absence shall be forwarded to the Union. The Company will reply to a written request for a leave of absence within one (1) week of the date of the said request. Where a leave of absence is denied the Company will notify the employee in writing of the reason for the denial of such leave with copy to be provided to the Union.
2 4
Leave of absence will not be granted to
employment outside of the Company which are party to this Agreement, except to persons on medical leave.	Upon commencing to work
elsewhere, an employee on leave of absence other than medical leave shall be considered to have voluntarily left the Company's employ. An exception to this provision may be made to an employee wishing to accept employment with the Union of Needletrades, Industrial and Textile Employees.
On Remembrance Day (November 11th) the Company
grant a maximum of three (3) hours unpaid leave of absence for any employee who wishes to attend Remembrance Day services, provided the employee has so notified his supervisor no later than 4:00 P.M. on November 4th.
9.18	PREGNANCY LEAVE
Pregnancy and Parental Leave shall be granted in accordance with the provisions of the Employment Standards Act for Ontario.
9.19	BEREAVEMENT LEAVE
Should a bereavement occur in an employee's immediate family, he may request a bereavement leave and will be allowed reasonable leave to attend the funeral or conduct related business where required.
He will be reimbursed at his average hourly earnings for the time granted on such leave provided that the total amount of such reimbursement shall not exceed the aggregate of twenty-four (24) hours (to be taken as 3 x 8 hour shifts or 2 x 12 hour shifts).
The Company may require proof of the event, facts and relationship before making reimbursements as above. Should a bereavement occur in an employee's
(b)
accept
(c)
will
25
WAGES
10.01
10.02
immediate family and the employee does not attend the funeral, he may request a bereavement leave of one day and will be paid for one lost regularly scheduled work day within the three consecutive day period following the date of death.
The term "immediate family" shall mean an employee's spouse, father or mother, brother or sister, children, child of spouse, stepchild, father-in-law or mother- in-law, sister-in-law or brother-in-law, legal guardian, grandparent or grandchild, stepfather or stepmother, stepbrother or stepsister, son-in-law or daughter- in-law, spouse's grandparent.
Applicable Federal and/or provincial legislation will be followed when defining the term spouse and/or common-law partnership.
ARTICLE 10
The Company agrees to pay and the Union agrees to accept for the term of this Agreement, the schedule of wage rates for the job classifications in effect at the date hereof and as set out in Schedule "A", which forms part of this Agreement. The Company shall advise the Union in writing prior to any employee's rate being adjusted during the life of this Agreement.
TEMPORARY TRANSFERS
An employee temporarily transferred to another job classification to meet production requirements or due to machine breakdown will be paid at the rate of the new job, or on the basis of his/her average hourly earnings, whichever is the higher.
An employee temporarily transferred to another job classification for reason of lack of available work on his regular job shall be paid at the rate of the new job, or at the "base rate", whichever is the higher.
26
A temporary transfer will not exceed thirty (30) working days, unless extended by agreement of the parties hereto.
10.03	REPORTING ALLOWANCE
The Company agrees	that an employee who has
commenced work, or who is reporting for work at his/her regular time, unless previously notified to the contrary, shall be furnished with four (4) hours work or given four (4) hours pay at his thirteen week (13 week) average hourly earnings in lieu thereof. The provisions of this paragraph shall not apply in the event of power or steam failure, fire, flood, or other condition beyond the control of the Company.
10.04	CALL-IN PAY
If an employee is called back to work after his regular scheduled hours without being notified prior to the end of his shift, he will be paid a minimum of four (4) hours at straight time, provided that if the time taken to perform the work required exceeds three (3) hours, he will be paid at the regular overtime rate as specified in paragraph 12.02 below, and the four (4) hours' guarantee referred to herein shall not apply.
10.05	JURY DUTY
An employee summoned for jury duty or subpoenaed as a witness for the Crown will be remunerated for time lost from work for this purpose by being paid the difference between his average hourly earnings, excluding overtime as shown in the most recent payroll statistics, and the amount of remuneration he receives for his service as a jury man or as a subpoenaed witness, if such amount is less than he would have earned if he had otherwise been at work.
27
The Company will require written proof of jury service or Crown witness service prior to reimbursement.
10.06	JOB MAKE-UP PAY
If an experienced employee's work assignment is less than one hundred per cent (100%) of a job, make-up will be to one hundred per cent (100%), with payment calculated at the base rate.
10.07	PAY DAY
The Company agrees to pay weekly wages on Thursday.
The Company will endeavour to pay employees on the 11:00 to 7:00 shift during the Wednesday to Thursday shift.
28
10.08
AVERAGE HOURLY EARNINGS DEFINED
Average hourly earnings as stated in this Agreement shall mean the individual employee's average hourly earnings, excluding overtime and shift premium, and based on the most recent available payroll statistics.
10.09 INJURY PAY
An employee who is injured on the Company's premises s hal l be pai d fo r the bal ance of hi s s hi ft at hi s average hourly earnings.
10.10 INCENTIVE JOBS
(a)	New employees hired on an incentive job shall be paid a starting hourly rate set by the Company, which will enable the employee to reach the full rate after a reasonable apprenticeship period. If hired below the base rate, the employee shall be increased by a minimum of five cents per hour at the completion of the first four hundred and sixty (460) hours worked and five cents per hour per month thereafter until the full base rate is achieved. Employees on incentive jobs will be paid the higher of the above or actual earnings.
(b)	An employee transferred to an incentive job shall be guaranteed the lower of either his previous hourly rate or one hundred per cent performance rate on the incentive job for the first four hundred and sixty (460) hours worked.
After that time he will be paid base rate plus actual incentive earned. After a reasonable training period for the specific job, the employee is expected to perform at a standard of at least one hundred per cent (100%).
(c)	The Company further reserves the right to discipline, demote or transfer an employee as soon as it can be ascertained by comparison to the
29
10.11
10.12
WORK
normal learning curve that the employee is far below normal performance standards.
(d)	An employee transferred from a non-incentive job to
an incentive job shall be entitled to a trial period of five (5) full working days and may, upon request, be returned to his/her former job at the completion of the trial period, unless the transfer was made to avoid a lay-off. The five day trial period may be extended by mutual agreement.
NEW CLASSIFICATIONS
If the Company establishes a new classification they shall set a rate for that classification and so advise the Union. If the Union disagrees with the rate it may request a meeting with the Company within ten (10) days of notification, and such meeting will be held within thirty (30) days thereafter. If, after such meeting the parties still disagree concerning the rate the Union may request a meeting between the Company and the Union Engineers, who shall jointly study the job with a view to reaching agreement.
Any adjustments made to the rate as a result of these discussions will be made retroactive to the date of implementation.
The Company will pay each employee who is required to supply his own tools a Tool Allowance of $25.00 at the end of each contract year.
For employees in the Maintenance Department, who are required to supply a large number of tools, the Tool Allowance shall be One Hundred Dollars ($100.00) per annum.
STANDARDS
ARTICLE 11
30
11.01
11.02
11.03
11.04
11.05
11.06
11.07
It is recognized and agreed that it is the right of the Company to set and institute changes in tasks, work assignments and/or incentive time standards, provided that when an incentive time standard has been established, such incentive time standard shall remain in effect unless there has s ubs equent ly bee n a change, s uch as a change i n method, materials, specifications, machinery, equipment, lay-out, or because of a clerical error in the setting of the rate. It is further agreed that in the event of any such change, the entire job or any part thereof may be restudied at the request of either party and a new time standard set therefore.
It is agreed that when off-standard conditions occur, routine adjustments in standard incentive rates may be instituted by the Industrial Engineering Department on a day-to-day basis.
When work is performed by an employee for which no standard has been posted, payment will be made to the employee on the basis of his average hourly earnings.
It is agreed that notice of minor changes in standard incentive rates shall be posted by the Company in advance. A copy of such notice shall be supplied to the Union.
It is agreed that for major changes in standard incentive rates, discussion will be held between the proper representatives of the Union and the Company before major changes are made as outlined in 11.01 above.
In discussing proposed major changes in standard incentive rates, all necessary information required to understand the change will be made available to the Union to the effective date of the change.
The Union shall have the right to bring in its own experts at such discussions. Such persons shall
31
have the privilege of studying the actual operation in the plant.
11.08	If the matter is in dispute, the Company, if they deem it necessary, may institute a break-in period. The break-in period shall not exceed thirty (30) working days during which time employees will be paid at their average hourly earnings or actual incentive earnings on the new time standard rate whichever is the higher. At the conclusion of the break-in period, the incentive rate will be established and become effective, and employees shall participate in the wage incentive system.
11.09	The Company and the Union agree to co-operate to ensure a fair trial following the date the incentive rate becomes effective. If investigation, break-in period, etc., do not result in a satisfactory settlement, either party may invoke the grievance and arbitration procedures commencing at Step No. 2 of the grievance procedure by giving written notice to the other party not less than five (5) working days or more than twenty-five (25) working days from the date that the incentive rate was made effective. If neither party gives notice during this period, the incentive rates shall be deemed to be established and satisfactory to the Company, the Union, and the employees concerned. ARTICLE 12
HOURS	OF WORK AND OVERTIME
12.01	Schedule "B", as posted and forming part of this Agreement, is the schedule of the hours of work.
12.02	OVERTIME RATES
	All authorized work performed by an employee in excess of the standard daily or weekly hours as detailed in Schedule "B" shall be considered overtime and shall be paid for at the applicable rate specified in clause 12.03 below.
32
All authorized work performed by an employee on a 3 x 12 shift schedule, in excess of forty-eight (48) hours in a week, will be paid at the rate of two times the employee's average hourly earnings.
The Company agrees to post a list on the plant bulletin boards of all the overtime hours worked by each employee.
12.03	WEEKEND OVERTIME
(a)	FIVE DAY WEEK SCHEDULE
All	authorized	work performed	by an employee
between midnight, Friday and Midnight, Saturday, shall be paid at the rate of time and one-half the employee's average hourly earnings.
An employee required to work continuously for more than twelve (12) hours will be paid at the rate of two	(2) times his	average hourly
earnings for all hours over twelve (12).
(b)	All	authorized	work performed	by an employee
between Midnight, Saturday and Midnight, Sunday, shall be paid at the rate of two times the employee's average hourly earnings.
(c)	The provisions of this paragraph do not apply if work performed by an employee during this period forms part of his regular work week.
12.04	PLANT HOLIDAY OVERTIME
All authorized work performed by employees on Statutory Holidays shall be paid at double time. This is in addition to any plant holiday pay the employee may be entitled to under the provisions of this agreement.
Employees working on the twelve (12) hour shifts who are not required to perform work on a statutory holiday, that falls within their scheduled shift, will be credited with all hours paid for that holiday as if they had performed the work, for the
33
purpose of calculating their total weekly hours as well as being counted toward overtime payment.
12.05	OVERTIME PAY LIMITATION
When computing overtime pay, in no case shall an employee be paid overtime on a daily, weekly and plant holiday basis for the same overtime hours.
12.06	SHIFT PREMIUM
12.07
12.08
In addition to the rates "A", the Company will all hours worked at following basis:
(a)	for regular shifts p.m., the bulk of midnight, a premium per hour.
in Schedule premium for pay on the
commencing on or after 1 whose hours fall before of twenty-five cents (25)
of pay listed pay an off-shift regular rates of
(b)	for regular shifts ending on or before 8	a.m.,
the bulk of whose hours fall after midnight, a premium of thirty cents (30) per hour.
In no case shall these premiums be considered as part of the employees' basic rates of pay.
(c)	any employee who, at the date of signing this Agreement, is enjoying a premium structure more liberal than that defined above, shall continue to receive such premium, but it shall apply only to that employee, and shall become null and void when such employee ceases to be employed on his present shift basis.
The shift differentials referred to in paragraph
12.06	above shall not be subject to overtime or other premiums.
PROTECTION REGULAR HOURS
34
Employees will not be required to lay off during
regular hours solely to offset overtime hours worked
in the same pay period.
12.09	OVERTIME SCHEDULING
(a)	In order to maintain the operations of the business overtime may be required. All overtime will be administered on the following basis: First:	All overtime opportunities will be
offered on a voluntary basis commencing with the most senior qualified employee who normally performs the job. A list for employees to sign for voluntary overtime will be posted on Monday of each week and employees will be selected from this list. Opportunities, which are refused shall be counted as hours worked as we attempt to equalize hours.
(b)	Then - In the event that the required number of employees is not available on a voluntary basis, then the qualified employee with the least seniority shall be required to perform the work.
This process would continue from the bottom of the seniority list upward until the required number of employees is reached.
(c)	Where overtime is required on short notice due
to absenteeism or emergency conditions, the Company shall endeavour to select the senior qualified employee.	These hours will also be
counted toward equalization.
(d) Departments required for a Saturday shift will be notified by 3:00 p.m. on Wednesday of each week.
(e)	The following limitations apply:
(i)	All Saturday overtime will be on a
voluntary basis for those employees who have worked on accumulated total of twelve (12) hours of overtime from their Monday through Friday shifts, and an
35
12.10
accumulated total of ten (10) hours overtime Monday through Friday for employees in the Fashion Print/Bath Boutique Department.
(ii)	All Sunday overtime shall be voluntary except for employees in the Dyehouse who may be subject to the provisions of (b) above. Employees in the Finishing Depart-ment shall only be subject to (b) for Sunday overtime in the event of a machine breakdown or due to an emergency beyond the Company's control.
(iii)	Required overtime shall be limited to two (2) Saturdays in June and zero (0) in July. All overtime required on a statutory holi-day week-end will be on a voluntary basis only.
On any day when an employee is asked by the Company to work overtime following the conclusion of his/her regular shift and agrees to do so, and has not been so notified prior to the commencement of his/her shift, the employee shall be given a $7.00 meal allowance through payroll, provided the overtime is for 2 hours or more.
36
12.11
FIRST AID ATTENDANT
12.12
PLANT
13.01
13.02
Designated first aid attendants, of which there shall be one (1) on each of the three shifts, shall be paid twenty-five cents (25) per hour in addition to their regular rate.
TRAINING
The Company agrees to pay a premium of thirty cents ($.30) per hour to an employee who is designated to train or give job instruction to another employee as they	learn	a	new	production	machine
function/position.	Such premium of thirty cents
($.30) per hour will not form part of the employee’s regular hourly rate in the computation of overtime, statutory holiday or any other form of premium or incentive payment or compensation.
ARTICLE 13
HOLIDAYS
The following ten (10) plant holidays will be observed by the Company regardless of the days on which they fall. In the event a holiday should fall on a Saturday or Sunday, an alternate day off will be granted instead:
New Year’s Day Good Friday Victoria Day Canada Day Civic Holiday
Labour Day Thanksgiving Day Christmas Day Boxing Day Floater Holiday
The floater will be scheduled in or around the Christmas/New Year holiday period. The selection of the date shall be made by mutual agreement of the parties each year.
PAY RATES
37
13.03
13.04
13.05
An employee will be paid for the number of hours which constitute his normal work day as defined in Schedule "B", if the plant holiday falls on a day in his regular schedule. If the employee is not regularly scheduled to work on this day, then he shall receive eight (8) hours pay at straight time.
An hourly-rated employee will be paid at his regular hourly rate and an incentive worker will be paid at his average hourly earnings.
PROBATIONARY EMPLOYEES
Employees must have completed four hundred and sixty (460) hours of work for the Company before they are eligible for plant holiday pay. Where an employee completed ninety days of work he shall be eligible to receive retroactive payment for a plant holiday for which he otherwise would have been eligible during the sixty (60) days mentioned herein.
ELIGIBILITY
To be eligible for plant holiday pay, it is understood that the employee must work his full regular shift on the declared work day immediately preceding,	and his full regular shift on the
declared work day immediately following the plant holiday concerned. The "declared work day", as used herein shall mean the work day so declared by the Company.
SPECIAL CIRCUMSTANCES
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 13.04 above, but subject to the other provisions of this Agreement, the Company agrees:
(a)	to pay an employee who is absent from work while receiving sick benefits under the group insurance, or benefits under the Workers' Compensation Act at a time a plant holiday occurs, the plant holiday pay to which he would
38
13.06
13.07
otherwise be entitled under the provisions of this Agreement;
(b)	to pay plant holiday pay to an employee who is absent due to death in his immediate family, as specified in paragraph 9.20. In no case, however, will an employee be paid for the same day under the provisions of this paragraph, and of paragraph 9.20;
(c) to pay an employee who is absent from work because of personal sickness verified by a certificate signed by a	licensed medical practitioner of good standing, provided that the provisions of this paragraph will cease to apply to any employee when he has been paid for four (4) plant holidays during any one (1) continuous absence because of such illness;
(d)	to pay plant holiday pay to an employee who has
not worked his full regular shift in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 13.04 above, because of circumstances deemed	to	be
extenuating. In reaching such a decision, the Company will consult with the Union, and each case will be considered on its merits;
(e)	to pay plant holiday pay to an employee who has been granted permission to be absent all or part of his regular shift immediately before, or his regular shift immediately after a plant holiday.
The provisions of this article shall not apply to employees on layoff unless the employees were laid off because of lack of work during the five (5) work days immediately preceding the plant holiday concerned and were not recalled to work prior to that holiday.
The provisions of this article shall not apply to employees on leave of absence. However, an employee will receive plant holiday pay provided such leave of absence is for a period of two (2)
39
13.08
13.09
VACATIONS
14.01
weeks or less	and the employee is otherwise
qualified.
In no circumstances will an employee receive plant holiday pay for more than four (4) of the plant holidays mentioned above during any continued absence regardless of the reason for such absence.
In cases where a Statutory Holiday occurs during a scheduled vacation period, the employee shall be paid for the Statutory Holiday and that particular day shall not be considered part of the employee's vacation. In those cases where the one day vacation is still due to the employee, that day shall be scheduled at another time by mutual agreement between the employee and the Company, in which case the Company will withhold vacation pay for that day until it is taken. The purpose
of this clause is to clarify that in such cases the employee shall not automatically have the additional vacation day carry forward to the first working day of the following week, as this has been disruptive to production and has adversely affected the possibility of scheduling other employee's vacations who may prefer that particular week.
ARTICLE 14
Employees in the employ of the Company as of the last day of the last full pay period in the month of June shall be entitled to vacation, with vacation pay to be computed as provided in paragraph 14.02, as follows:
(a)	Employees with less than six (6) years’ service with the Company -- two (2) weeks’ vacation.
(b) Employees with six (6) years’ service or over, but less than fourteen (14) years -- three (3) weeks’ vacation.
40
14.02
during
May.
(c)	Employees with fourteen (14) years’ service or over, but less than twenty-five (25) years -four (4) weeks’ vacation.
(d)	Employees with twenty-five (25) years’ service and over -- five (5) weeks’ vacation.
(e) Effective November 1, 2000, employees with twenty (20) years service and over - five (5) weeks' vacation.
Note:	For scheduling purposes, a week's vacation
shall consist of 5 x 8 hour shifts or 3 x 12 hour shifts.
COMPUTATION
The total amount of vacation pay due each employee shall be based on his length of continuous service with the Company, and shall be computed in accordance with the "Computation of Vacation Pay” table set out below:
COMPUTATION OF VACATION PAY TABLE
Length of employee’s continuous service with the Company________
Less than 4 years
Rate of Vacation Pay
4% of employee’s
total earnings
the 12 month period ending with and including the last
full pay period
in the month of
4 years or over, but less than 6 years
6 years or over, but less than 14 years
14 years or over, but less
5%	"
6%
41
than 20 years
8%
shall
14.03
14.04
14.05
n
20 years or over, but less
than 25 years	10%	"
25 years or over	12%	"
"Total earnings” as listed above in this clause include the previous year’s vacation pay.
Notwithstanding the other provisions of this article, an	employee	whose	employment	with	the
Company is terminated on any day prior to the last day of the twelve (12) month period ending with the last day of the last full pay period in the month of May, shall receive vacation pay for the portion of the said twelve (12) month period he worked for the Company, as follows:
An employee whose employment with the Company is terminated for any reason shall receive the amount of vacation pay to which he is entitled under the schedule set out in the "Computation of Vacation Pay" table in paragraph 14.02 above for work performed during that portion of the said twelve (12) month period he	worked	for the Company,	and
such payment shall be made in cash.
When an	employee	loses	seven (7)	continuous
working days or more of employment while receiving benefits from the Workers’ Compensation Board, or sick benefits, or who is on maternity leave, he/she shall be credited with the number of hours so lost as if they had been hours actually worked by the employee, up to a maximum total
accumulation	of twenty-six	(26) weeks	for	the
purpose of computing vacation pay.	If the
employee’s absence is the result of one (1) accident or illness, the aforementioned twenty-six (26) week maximum will apply during that absence.
(a)	The	Company may schedule a vacation
shutdown during the year and will announce the shutdown dates prior to March 31st in each year.
42
14.06
14.07
14.08
14.09
(b)	Employees who	are entitled	to	vacation, which
will not be utilized during a plant shutdown, shall schedule their vacation in accordance with seniority and the efficient operation of the business. The vacation schedules shall be posted prior to March 31st in each year.
(c)	When the selection lists are posted, no employee shall be required to change their vacation selections, except in the case of emergency or by mutual consent of the Employee and the Company.
(d)	Any vacation	requests from	employees	not
scheduled by March 31st shall be treated on a "first-come,	first-serve"	basis, subject	to
availability of weeks.
Unless special permission is otherwise given by the	Company, a vacation week	is	to commence	on
Sunday and end on the following Saturday.
Vacation pay will be computed as of May 31st of each year and will be directly deposited into the employee's account, in a separate deposit on the last pay deposit in June of that year.
The number of years of continuous service used in reckoning the rate of pay to which an employee is entitled shall be computed as of the 30th of June.
LONG SERVICE VACATION BONUS
Employees in the employ of the Company as of the last day of the full pay period in the month of June will in addition to any entitlement provided for in subsection 14.02, receive a bonus in accordance with the following:
(a)	5 years or more but less than 12 years
service -	$ 50.
(b)	12 years or more service -	$100.
43
ARTICLE 15
SAFETY
15.01
15.02
15.03
AND HEALTH
The Company shall make reasonable provisions for the safety and health of their employees during working hours.
The Company shall conduct a fire drill for all employees at least once in every twelve (12) month period.
The Union agrees that it will co-operate in the enforcement of safety rules and regulations.
The Company will make available to all full-time employ-ees, while they are in the active employ of the Company, Group Life, A. D. & D., Sickness and Accident Extended Medical Coverage Insurance and Dental plans as follows:
The specific application and administration of all benefits and all matters with respect to the Insurance program provided for herein shall be governed by the terms of the plan or policy with the applicable insurance carrier. Any dispute over payment of benefits under any such plan or policy shall be adjusted between the employee and the insurer concerned and not to be dealt with through grievance and arbitration process. Applicable Federal and/or Provincial legislation will be followed when defining the term spouse and/or common-law partnership.
1. Group Life Insurance Plan -- Ten Thousand Dollars ($10,000) for all bargaining unit employees.
A. D. & D. Insurance Plan -- Ten Thousand Dollars ($10,000) for all bargaining unit employees.
44
2.	Extended Medical Coverage Insurance as provided for by the policy:
100% of hospital charge for semi-private accommodation, no deductible.
(a)	100% of charges for prescription drugs, which are included in the Ontario Drug Benefit Form-ulary, deductible $10 single and $20 family.
or
(b)	a "pay direct" prescription drug card with a $3.00 per prescription deductible.
Fertility drugs and treatment are not covered by this "Extended Medical Coverage Insurance”.
A percentage of charges for all other covered expenses, up to a stipulated maximum, with deduct-ibles of $10 single and $20 family.
Vision Care:	Benefits, as defined in the
current booklet provided by the Insurance Company.
3.	Sickness and Accident Benefit -- Provide weekly indemnity payments of 66 2/3% of earnings to a maximum of the U.I.C. level with no "carve-out". This plan shall be on a 1-1-4-26 basis.
4.	Dental Plan
Dental Plan to provide the following features:
(a)	No deductible
(b)	Unlimited maximum for covered expenses
(c)	80% co-insurance
(d)	Effective March 1,	2000, the 1999 ODA fee
schedule shall come into effect. Effective March 1, 2001, the 2000 ODA fee schedule shall apply. Effective March 1,	2002 the
2001 ODA fee schedule shall apply. Effective March 1, 2003 the 2002 ODA fee schedule shall apply.
45
5. Retirement Benefits
It is understood and agreed that the Company’s policy is to require employees to retire during the year in which an employee reached his/her sixty-fifth birthday.
(a)	An	employee who retires at	age	sixty-five
pursuant to the Company’s policy will be entitled	to	the	following	benefits,
provided	he/she	has	completed	five years’
service with the Company immediately prior to the date of retirement:
(i)	A retirement allowance	in	the amount
of $1,000.00.
(ii)	A paid up life insurance policy in the amount of $1,000.00.
(b)	An	employee who retires at	age	sixty-five
pursuant to the Company’s policy will be entitled	to	the	following	benefits,
provided	he/she	has	completed fifteen years
of service:
(i)	A retirement allowance	in	the amount
of $1,500.00.
(ii)	A paid up life insurance policy in the amount of $1,000.00.
If, because of ill health, an employee is forced to retire before he/she reaches age sixty-five, the employee will receive, upon retirement, a $1, 000.00 paid up life insurance policy, provided the employee has been in the Company’s employ for fifteen years or more immediately prior to the date of retirement.
This Article shall apply to any employee who retired at age sixty-five subsequent to November 1,	1990.
46
15.04
The Company agrees to pay 75% of the cost of the following:
Group Life Insurance Extended Medical Coverage Sickness and Accident Insurance
The Company agrees to pay 50% of the cost of the Dental Plan. Effective November 1,	2000 the Company
will pay 75% of Dental premium.
The Company agrees to maintain these percentage payments during the life of this agreement.
15.05	Employees on a leave of absence for a period greater than three (3) weeks shall pre-pay the full premiums if they desire premium coverage to continue during the aforesaid leave for Extended Medical Coverage Insurance. Employees on pregnancy leave shall pre-pay their required premium portion if they desire premium coverage to continue during such leave.
15.06	The Company will pay 100% of the cost, up to a
maximum of Seventy-Five Dollars ($75.00), of one (1) pair of safety footwear per contract year to any employee required by the Company to wear such safety footwear. Effective November 1,	2001 the safety
shoes will be reimbursed to an annual maximum of one hundred dollars ($100.00).
15.07	In the event the Province of Ontario should decide to abandon the current payment system for hospital insurance - the Employer Health Tax (E.H.T.) - and to revert to the same, or a similar payment structure as that previously in effect under the Ontario Hospital Insurance Plan (OHIP) the Company agrees that they will contribute seventy-five per cent (75%) of the premium cost of that insurance plan on behalf of all full-time employees while they are in the active employ of the Company.
ARTICLE 16
47
BULLETIN BOARDS
16.01	The Company agrees to extend to the Union the privilege of using bulletin boards to be located in the Mill in locations designated by the Company. The Union agrees not to use the boards for propaganda purposes.
16.02	The Union agrees that no pamphlets or other publicat- ions will be distributed on the premises of the Company without the Company’s approval.
UNION 17.01	ARTICLE 17 SECURITY The Company agrees that all employees shall be obligated, as a condition of employment, to sign an authorization card authorizing the Company to deduct, on a monthly basis and from day one (1) of employment, union dues. Such deductions shall be remitted by the last day of each month in which the deductions were made, by cheque payable to the Union of Needletrades, Industrial and Textile Employees. It is further understood that employees shall be entitled to union representation from day one (1) of employment
17.02	Once an employee has authorized the Company to deduct Union dues, such employee shall not be entitled to cancel the authorization so given while this Agreement is in effect.
17.03	At the time of making each remittance hereunder to the Union, the Company will submit a list of the names of all employees from whose pay such deduction has been made for the current month, and at the same time will also submit the following information to the Union: a list of the people from whom no deduction was made for the current month, and the reasons therefor - e.g. LE = Left Company’ employment LO = Laid off IF = Initiation fee
48
LA	= Leave of absence
SICK = Away sick, and no wages payable WC	= On Compensation from the Workers’
Compensation
Board
PR	= Promoted out of the Bargaining Unit
17.04	The Company will include on each employee’s T-4 form the amount of Union dues (excluding initiation fees) paid by him/her during the tax year in question.
17.05	The Company agree to contribute monthly to the Union’s Education Fund an amount equal to 0.25% of the monthly bargaining unit payroll. The amount shall be calculated each month based on the previous month’s payroll and shall be forwarded, together with the monthly Union dues, to the Union by cheque made payable to the U.N.I.T.E. Education Fund.
49
ARTICLE 18
CORRESPONDENCE
18.01
Except as otherwise provided, any notice which either party desires to give to the other shall be given by registered mail, as follows:
To the Company:
To the Union:
The Cambridge Towel Corp.,
450 Dobbie Drive,
Cambridge, Ontario. NlR 5X9
Union of Needletrades, Industrial and Textile Employees - AFL-CIO.CLC,
15 Gervais Drive, Suite 700, Don Mills, Ontario. N3C 1Y8 cc--Recording Secretary,
Local 1441, U.N.I.T.E. Cambridge, Ontario.
ARTICLE 19
MODIFICATION, RENEWAL
AND TERMINATION
19.01	This Agreement shall continue in effect from
November 1,	1999 until the 31st day of October, 2003
and shall continue automatically thereafter during annual periods of one year each unless either party notifies the other in writing within one hundred and twenty (120) days prior to the expiry date that a revision or discontinuance is desired.
19.02	In the event of such notification being given as to revision of the Agreement, negotiations between the parties shall begin within fifteen (15) days following such notification unless extended by mutual agreement of the parties.
19.03	If the parties enter into negotiations for the purpose of amending this Agreement, and agreement on the renewal or amendment of this Agreement is not reached prior to the normal termination date hereof,
50
the termination of this Agreement shall be automatically extended until consummation of a new Agreement or completion of the conciliation proceedings prescribed under the Labour Relations Act of the Province of Ontario.
19.04	The Company agree to make available a copy of
the Collective Agreement printed in booklet form for all
employees at no cost to the Union.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the Company and the Union have caused these presents to be executed by their duly authorized represent-atives on the	day of	,	2000 in
Cambridge, Ontario.
THE CAMBRIDGE TOWEL CORPORATION
UNION OF NEEDLETRADES, INDUSTRIAL AND TEXTILE EMPLOYEES AFL-CIO.CLC, LOCAL 1441
ONTARIO JOINT COUNCIL
51
WAGES
Wage Rates - See Schedule "A".
New employees shall be paid a starting hourly rate set by the Company, which will allow the employee to reach the full rate for the classification in question after a reasonable apprenticeship period. The normal apprenticeship period of each classification appears on Schedule "C" . New employees will be increased five cents per hour at the completion of their first sixty (60) working days and five cents per hour per month thereafter until they reach the maximum rate of the classification of the job being performed.
52
SCHEDULE "A"
CLASSIFICATION & WAGE RATES
DEPT./CLASS NO.	CLASSIFICATION	11/1/99 DAY RATE	11/1/00 : DAY RATE	11/1/01 DAY RATE	11/1/02 DAY RATE
PREPARATION					
402	WARPER OPERATOR	10.12	10.42	10.77	11.17
403	WARPER CREELER	9.94	10.24	10.59	10.99
404	SLASHER OPERATOR	11.64	11.94	12.29	12.69
405	SLASHER HELPER	10.09	10.39	10.74	11.14
WEAVING					
501	WEAVER	12.03	12.33	12.68	13.08
502	WARP HAND	11.14	11.44	11.79	12.19
503	WARP TYER	11.14	11.44	11.79	12.19
504	WARP TYER/FIXER	12.14	12.44	12.79	13.19
507	FIXER	13.89	14.19	14.54	14.94
509	ROLL & FILL CARRIER	10.15	10.45	10.80	11.20
511	DRAW-IN	10.34	10.64	10.99	11.39
514	GENERAL HELP	9.24	9.54	9.89	10.29
515	MATERIAL HANDLER	9.94	10.24	10.59	10.99
517	OILER/TECHNICIAN	10.65	10.95	11.30	11.70
DYEHOUSE					
601	LEAD HAND	11.81	12.11	12.46	12.86
602	MACHINE OPERATOR	10.81	11.11	11.46	11.86
603	GENERAL HELP	9.24	9.54	9.89	10.29
604	MATERIAL HANDLER	9.94	10.24	10.59	10.99
FABRICATION
703	SLIT/SIDE HEMMER OPERATOR	9.94	10.24	10.59	10.99
705	AUTO-SEW. M/C OPERATOR	11.14	11.44	11.79	12.19
706	END HEMMER	10.12	10.42	10.77	11.17
707	WHIPPER	10.12	10.42	10.77	11.17
708	EMBROIDERY M/C OPERATOR	10.14	10.44	10.79	11.19
709	INSPECTOR/FOLDER	9.54	9.84	10.19	10.59
710	REPAIRS	10.09	10.39	10.74	11.14
712	POLYBAG/POLYWRAP OPERATOR	9.24	9.54	9.89	10.29
713	LEAD HAND	11.14	11.44	11.79	12.19
714	FIXER	12.64	12.94	13.29	13.69
53
SCHEDULE
(II)
'A'
DEPT./CLASS NO.	CLASSIFICATION	11/1/99	11/1/00	11/1/01	11/1/02
		DAY RATE	DAY RATE	DAY RATE	DAY RATE
715	PACK & RECORD	9.94	10.24	10.59	10.99
716	INSPECTOR/AUTOFOLDER OPERATOR	9.64	9.94	10.29	10.69
717	GENERAL HELP	9.24	9.54	9.89	10.29
718	EXPEDITOR	10.19	10.49	10.84	11.24
722	MANUAL CUTTING	9.54	9.84	10.19	10.59
723	MANUAL HEMMER	10.12	10.42	10.77	11.17
727	SETS ASSEMBLY	9.54	9.84	10.19	10.59
SHIPPING
801	SHIPPING CO-ORDINATOR	11.46	11.76	12.11	12.51
805	RECEIVER	10.64	10.94	11.29	11.69
806	PACKER/LOADER	10.34	10.64	10.99	11.39
807	MATERIAL HANDLER	9.94	10.24	10.59	10.99
MAINTENANCE
(SEE ALSO NOTE 1)
901	MECHANIC-TICKETED	17.30	17.60	17.95	18.35
902	MECHANIC	12.89	13.19	13.54	13.94
904	ELECTRICIAN-TICKETED	18.30	18.60	18.95	19.35
905	ELECTRICIAN	13.14	13.44	13.79	14.19
906	CARPENTER-TICKETED	13.96	14.26	14.61	15.01
907	CARPENTER	11.89	12.19	12.54	12.94
908	JANITOR	10.24	10.54	10.89	11.29
909 910	GENERAL MAINTENANCE APPRENTICE (NOTE 2)	10.29	10.59	10.94	11.34
FASHION					
301	PRINTING M/C OPERATOR-A	14.01	14.31	14.66	15.06
302	PRINTING M/C OPERATOR-M	11.26	11.56	11.91	12.31
303	PRINTING M/C OPERATOR-B	11.01	11.31	11.66	12.06
304	SCREEN PREPARER	10.57	10.87	11.22	11.62
305	COLOUR TECHNICIAN	12.69	12.99	13.34	13.74
306	PHOTO SCREEN MAKER	12.87	13.17	13.52	13.92
307	MACHINE LOADER	9.39	9.84	10.19	10.59
308	GENERAL HELP	9.24	9.54	9.89	10.29
309	MACHINE LOADER/RECORDER	10.09	10.54	10.89	11.29
BATH BOUTIQUE					
201	LEAD HAND	11.34	11.64	11.99	12.39
202	PACKER	10.34	10.64	10.99	11.39
54
203
MATERIAL HANDLER
9.94	10.24	10.59	10.99
SCHEDULE(A)
(III)
NOTE 1:
TICKETS
For additional tickets the base rate will be increased as follows:
NOTE 2:
APPRENTICE RATES will be based on the appropriate ticketed classification rate and will follow Ontario Ministry guidelines for years of experience and percentage of rate.
The Company and the Union agree to re-open the Collective Agreement to discuss and negotiate revisions to the wage rates, effective November 1, 2002. Negotiations may only commence if the C.P.I. (Consumer Price Index) has risen by more than the rate increases in the previous three years, versus a base rate published for November 1, 1999.
First Additional Applicable Ticket Second Additional Applicable Ticket Third Additional Applicable Ticket
$ 1.00 per hour $	.50 per hour
$	.50 per hour
NOTE 3:
WAGE PROTECTION
55
SCHEDULE "B"
(a) FIVE DAY WEEK SCHEDULE
Employees in job classifications, which operate on a ”5 Day Week Schedule" shall have regular shift hours as follows:
MONDAY TO FRIDAY	8 HOURS PER SHIFT
REST PERIODS:
On straight eight hour shifts, a total of 30 minutes paid lunch time will be allowed in periods mutually agreed and times as designated by the Company.
(b) SIX DAY WEEK SCHEDULE
Employees in job classifications, which operate on a ”6 Day Week Schedule" shall have regular shift hours as follows:
SHIFT
A
B
C
D
DAYS_______________________
MONDAY, TUESDAY, WEDNESDAY (STARTS SUNDAY EVENING) MONDAY, TUESDAY, WEDNESDAY THURSDAY, FRIDAY, SATURDAY (STARTS WEDNESDAY EVENING) THURSDAY, FRIDAY, SATURDAY
HOURS
7:00	PM	-	7:00	AM
7:00	AM	-	7:00	PM
7:00	PM	-	7:00	AM
7:00	AM	-	7:00	PM
Employees in job classifications, which operate on a ”6 day week schedule", and who work their scheduled 36 hour week, shall receive a bonus of 4 hours pay at straight time. This bonus shall also be paid in the event that the employee incurs an absence during the week subject to both of the following conditions:
(i)	the absence is due to a legitimate reason
and (ii)	there is no written discipline for attendance on
active record
- REST PERIODS:
On straight 12 hour shifts, a total of 60 minutes paid time will be allowed in periods mutually agreed and times as designated by the Company.
While these schedules define the normal hours of work, it shall not be construed or interpreted as a guarantee by the Company of a specific number of hours of work per day or days of work per week.
56
Any reduction in the number of hours of operation required, would constitute a lay-off. The language in Article 9.08 applies to any reduction within either shift schedule outlined above, or, in the event of a transition from a six day schedule to a five day week schedule.
57
SCHEDULE "C"
APPRENTICESHIP PERIODS
DEPT./	CLASSIFICATION	MONTHS
CLASS. NO.
PREPARATION
402	Warper Operator	
403	Warper Creeler	-
404	Slasher Operator	9
405	Slasher Helper	-
	WEAVING		
501		Weaver	6
502		Warp Hand	-
503		Warp Tyer	6
504		Warp Tyer/Fixer	
507		Fixer	
509		Fold & Fill Carrier	-
511		Draw-In	9
514		General Help	-
515		Material Handler	-
517	DYEHOUSE	Oiler/Technician	6
601		Lead Hand	N/A
602		Machine Operator	6
603		General Help	-
604		Material Handler	-
	FABRICATION		
703		Slitter/Side Hemmer Operator	6
705		Auto Sewing M/C. Operator	
706		End Hemmer	
707		Whipper	-
708		Embroidery M/C Operator	-
709		Inspector/Folder	-
710		Repairs	-
58
712
713
714
DEPT./ CLASS. NO.
Polybag/Polywrap Operator
Lead Hand
Fixer
CLASSIFICATION
N/A
MONTHS
12
FABRICATION (contd)
715	Pack & Record	6	
716	Inspector/Auto Folder Operator		-
717	General Help	-	
718	Expeditor	-	
722	Manual Cutting	-	
723	Manual Hemmer	-	
727	Sets Assembly	-	
	SHIPPING		
801	Shipping Co-Ordinator	N/A	
805	Receiver	-	
806	Packer/Loader	-	
807	Material Handler	-	
	MAINTENANCE		
901	Mechanic-Ticketed	36	
902	Mechanic		12
904	Electrician-Ticketed		48
905	Electrician	9	
906	Carpenter-Ticketed	24	
907	Carpenter	6	
908	Janitor	6	
909	General Maintenance	-	
910	Apprentice		N/A
FASHION			
301	Printing M/C. Operator A		24
302	Printing M/C. Operator M		12
303	Printing M/C. Operator B		6
304	Screen Preparer		6
305	Colour Technician	18	
306	Photo Screen Maker	18	
307	Machine Loader	-	
308	General Help	-	
309	Machine Loader/Recorder	-	
59
	BATH BOUTIQUE	
201	Lead Hand	N/A
202	Packer	-
203	Material Handler	-
60
LETTER OF INTENT
1.
In interpreting and applying article 9.15(a) it is understood that "voluntarily quits” refers to an employee who voluntarily quits and who does not reverse his or her decision at least two (2) hours prior to the start of his or her next schedule shift and does not report for that shift. However, if coverage has been re-arranged for by the Company, the employee will be notified to report for a following shift, provided that in no event shall this following shift be more than three (3) working days following the employee’s first action. It is understood that the Company retain the right to discipline the employee(s) involved, subject to the employee’s right to grieve.
61
LETTER OF INTENT
2.
GAINSHARING
All employees on active payroll, including probationary employees, will be entitled to receive gainsharing.
The employer shall not be obligated to pay gainsharing to probationary employees until the successful completion of the probationary period.	Following completion all entitled
gainsharing shall be retroactive.
Entitlement shall be paid provided each employee has worked a minimum of one (1) day during each gainsharing period.
62
LETTER OF INTENT
3.
The Company agrees that in regard to the floater holiday that the Company will consult with the Union Committee before deciding on the date to be observed.
In cases where the Company would wish to observe a Plant Holiday on a date, other than the day on which it falls, the Company will consult with the Union Committee before deciding on such date.
The Company will post the final dates of such holidays at least two (2) months before the scheduled holiday.
63
LETTER OF INTENT
4.
The Company agrees to set up an arrangement with the local urgent care clinic so that employees who may be required to provide a doctor's certificate to either the Company or the insurance company may arrange to visit the designated medical facility with the cost of such notes or reports being paid for by the Company.
64
LETTER OF INTENT
5.
It is the Company’s intention to discuss with the local union committee any matters affecting the Bargaining Union at the earliest possible convenience.
65