COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
Between:
THE CAMBRIDGE TOWEL CORPORATION - and-
UNITE HERE ONTARIO COUNCIL And its LOCAL 1441
Expiry Date:	October 31, 2011
00808 (12)
Contact us at:
UNITE HERE ONTARIO COUNCIL
460 Richmond Street, West 2nd Floor
Toronto, ON M5V 1Y1
T:	416-510-0887 F:	416-510-0891
Toll free:	1-800-268-4064
Email:	info@unitehere. ca
Website:	www.unitehere.ca
2
TABLE OF CONTENTS
1:General Purpose.........................................................................4
2:Recognition.............................................................................4
3:Management Functions....................................................................5
4:Discrimination and Union Activity...................................................... 5
5:Stewards................................................................................5
6:Grievance Time Limitations..............................................................7
7:Arbitration.............................................................................9
8:Strikes and Lockouts...................................................................10
9:Seniority Provisions...................................................................10
10:Wages.................................................................................14
11:Work Standards........................................................................16
12:Hours cf Work and Overtime............................................................17
13:Plant Holidays........................................................................20
14: Vacations............................................................................22
15:Safety and Health.....................................................................24
16:Bulletin Boards.......................................................................27
17:Union Security........................................................................27
18:Correspondence........................................................................27
19:Modification, Renewal and Termination................................................. 28
Schedule “A”:Classification and Wage Rates...............................................29
Schedule “B”.............................................................................31
Schedule“C”:Apprenticeship Periods.......................................................32
Letters cf Intent........................................................................34
3
THIS AGREEMENT entered into at Cambridge, Ontario as cf the July 8, 2008
BY AND BETWEEN:
THE CAMBRIDGETOWEL CORPORATION
(hereinafter designated as the “Company”) and-
UNITE HERE OntarioCounciland its Local 1441 (hereinafterdesignated as the “Union”)
WITNESSETH:
ARTICLE 1 -GENERAL PURPOSE
1.01	This Agreement is entered into by the parties hereto in order to provide for orderly collective bargaining relations between the Company and their employees. It is the desire of all these parties to co-operate in maintaining an harmonious relationship between the Company and their employees, and to amicably settle differences or grievances which may arise from time to time hereunder in the manner hereinafterset out.
ARTICLE 2 - RECOGNITION
2.01	The Company recognizes the Union as the exclusive collective bargaining agency with respect to all matters arising under this Agreement for all their employees employed in or about their mill situated in Cambridge, Ontario, save and except Supervisors, Equipment/machinery Technicians, Laboratory and Quality control Technicians, Office Staff and persons regularly employed for not more than twenty-four (24) hours per week. No current bargaining unit job classificationswill become a management/salary position without the approval and written consent of the Local Union Executive Committee and the union’s staff regional representative.
4
2.02	“Employee” defined
The word “employee” or “employees”, wherever used in this Agreement, shall mean any or all of the employees in the bargaining unit as defined above except where the context otherwise provides.
2.03	Where the masculine pronoun is used herein it shall mean and include the feminine
pronoun where the context so applies.
ARTICLE 3 -MANAGEMENT FUNCTIONS
3.01	The Union acknowledgesthat it is the exclusive function of the Company to:
(a) maintain order, discipline and efficiency;
(p) hire, discharge, classify, direct, transfer, promote demote and suspend or otherwise discipline employees, subject to the provisions of this Agreement, and
generally manage the industrial enterprise in which the Company are engaged, including all matters concerning the operation of the Company’s business not specifically dealt with elsewhere in this Agreement, and without restricting the generality of the foregoing, to determine the productsto be manufactured, methods of manufacture, schedule of production, kinds and locations of machines and tools to be used, process of manufacturing, the engineering and designing of their products, the control of the materials and parts to be incorporated in the products produced, the extension, limitations, curtailment, or cessation of operations.
3.02	The Company agrees that these functions will be subject to, and exercised in a manner
consistentwith the terms of this Agreement andthe rights of the Union.
ARTICLE 4- DISCRIMINATION AND UNION ACTIVITY
4.01	There will be no discrimination, intimidation or coercion by the Company, their officers or representatives, or by the Union, its officers or members, against any employee for any reason.
4.02	No Union activities shall be pursued on the Company' premises except as permitted by this Agreement, or with prior approval cf the Company.
ARTICLE 5 - STEWARDS
5.01	The Company acknowledgesthe right of the Union to appoint or otherwise select stewards, who shall be permanent regular employees with seniority. Stewards will be chosen from different departments so that in the event of a union meeting of any kind, it will not disrupt the productionflow inthe plant.
5
The Union will supply the Company with a list of stewards. The Company will be notified in writing each time a steward resigns or is appointed and will not be required to recognize, as a steward, any employee whose name does not appear on the list.
In the event of the resignation of a steward, the Union will insure that the vacancy is filled within two (2) calendar weeks thereafter, and the name of the new steward delivered to the Company. The above time limit may be extended by mutual agreement.
5.02	CHIEF STEWARDS
In addition to the stewards, the Company will recognize a Chief Steward who may be appointed or otherwise selected to representthe plant.
5.03	PAYMENT TO UNION EXECUTIVE MEMBERS AND STEWARDS
The Company agrees to pay for Union Committee members, and relevant Union Stewards for all time spent in meetings with management. Such time will be paid at the rate of straight time, not to exceed eight (8) hours per day. If the regular shifts change the hours paid will reflect the changes.
The negotiating committee will consist of the President and members from different departments and shifts.
The Company agrees to pay the individual membersofthe Union committee for all lost time by them during contract negotiations for the renewal of the Collective Agreement.
It is further understood that no committee member shall lose any of their regular scheduled hours on any negotiating day, regardless of the arranged start and quit times for each day, but shall receive payment at straight time for all time, which exceeds their regular scheduled hours, including any off shift days.
It is further agreed that the union negotiating committee will not be required to report to their work duties on any negotiating days, regardless of the start and quit times during the renewal of the Collective Agreement negotiating days. Such days shall include the first day of exchanging proposals up to and including conciliation and/or mediation.
5.04	PERMISSIONS) ACT DURING WORKING HOURS
It is understoodthat stewards have their regular duties to perform on behalf of the Company. If it is necessary for a steward to service a grievance during working hours, he shall not leave his department without first securing permission from his immediate supervisor.
If requested, he shall give a reasonable explanation of why he deems such action to be necessary.
When resuming his regular duties, he shall again report to his supervisor.
6
Should it become necessary for a steward, in the performance of his duties as a steward, to contact another employee, he will first secure the permission of such other person’s supervisor. Such permissionwill not be unreasonablydelayed and/or unreasonablydenied.
Union executive members and union stewards, who are working on a shift when a union meeting is scheduled, will be allowed two (2) hours off work, without pay, to attend such meetings. Unless otherwise arranged and agreed such employees are expected to promptly return to work following the two hour time frame.
5.05	MEETINGSWITH MANAGEMENT
Where it is necessary for Union representatives, grievers or witnesses to meet with Management representatives, permission for time off will not be unreasonably delayed and/or unreasonably denied.
5.06	UNION COMMITTEE
When it is necessary for the Union to confer with the Company on any matter(s), a committee of four (4) seniority employees, assisted by a Union representative, shall represent the members of the bargaining unit. For purposes of this provision, the term “Union representative” shall not be restricted to regional representatives of the UNITE HERE Council, or other employees of the International Union, nor shall the provision be construed as limitingthe calling of such witness as may be required.
When meetings take place between the Company and the Union for purposes other than for the renewal of the collective agreement, grievance meetings, and arbitration hearings, the Company reserves the right to limit participation by bargaining unit members to a reasonable number from each affected classification for a particular Committee or subcommittee provided that in exercising this right, they refrain from making capricious and arbitrary decisions.
5.07	Leave of Absence will be granted to delegated members to attend Union conventions, conferences and schools. All requests for Leave of Absence shall be made in writing to the Human Resources Department thirty (30) days prior to date of intended leave stating the reason for the leave and requested duration thereof. Leave of Absence may be granted to delegated members to attend Union activities, as stated above, when the written request is submitted with less than thirty (30) days notice to the Company. Such Leave shall not be unreasonably withheld.
ARTICLE 6 - GRIEVANCE TIME LIMITATIONS
6.01	An employee may not lodge a grievance on any subject unless he has first presented the subject as a complaint to his Supervisor within ten (10) calendar days of the occurrence or within ten (10) calendar days of the date whereon the employee could be assumed to have known of the occurrence, and further, the employee presents the written grievance to his Supervisor within ten (10) working days of the date whereon the employee received the Supervisor'sanswer to the original complaint.
7
GRIEVER RESPONSIBILITY
6.02
If an employee has a grievance, it shall be reduced to writing on forms supplied by the Union. It is agreed that pending the investigation and settlement of his grievance, the employee will not be absolved from performing the duties assigned to him, subject to the provisions of the Occupational Health and Safety Act. The grievance will then be taken up in the following manner and sequence.
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
STEP NO. 1:	Between the aggrieved employee, departmental steward and the
Department Manager involved. The Grievance will be fully explained, both written and verbally, to the Department Manager and Supervisor with information such as Article number, parties involved and violation explained in detail. The Department Manager shall render his decision in writing within three (3) working days. Failing settlement, it shall be taken up within three (3) working days as follows.
STEP NO. 2:	Between the aggrieved employee, departmental steward and the Plant
Manager. The decision shall be given in writing within five (5) working days. Failing settlement, it shall be taken up within five (5) working days as follows.
STEP NO. 3:	Between the grievance committee and Management Committee. A
representative of the Union may be present at this stage at the request of either of the parties, and the decision shall be given in writing within five (5) working days.
6.03	ARBITRATION
Failing a settlement under the above procedure of any difference concerning the interpretation or administration cf this Agreement, including any question as to whether a matter is arbitrable or whether an allegation is made that this agreement has been violated, the matter in dispute may be taken to arbitration as provided in Article 7, and if no written request is received within thirty-one (31) calendar days of the Company’s reply to Step No. 3, the grievance shall be deemed to have been settled or abandoned.
6.04	POLICY GRIEVANCE: Any difference or grievance arising directly between the Company and the Union may be submitted in writing by either party at step No. 3.
6.05	WITNESSES: At any stage of the grievance procedure, including arbitration, the conferring parties may have the assistance of the employee or employees concerned and any necessary witnesses, and all reasonable arrangements will be made to permit the conferring parties to have access to the plant to view disputed operations and to confer with the necessarywitnesses.
6.06	TIME LIMIT EXTENSIONS: Any and all time limits fixed by this Article and Article 7 may, at any time, be extended by written agreement betweenthe Company and the Union.
8
6.07	DECISIONS BINDING:	All decisions arrived at between the Company and the
representatives of the Union shall be final and binding upon the Company, the Union, and the employee or employees concerned.
6.08	PROBATIONARY RELEASE: A new employee will be considered as a probationary employee until he has actually completedfour hundred and sixty (460) hours worked for the Company in a period of six (6) consecutive months. The Union may question and/or grieve any discipline or lay-off of a probationary employee.
6.09	NOTICE OF DISCHARGE:	In cases of discharge, the Company will have a Union
Committee member present at the discharge meeting, to enable such employee his representation. Should a Union Representative not be available then the Company must inform the Unionof all the facts assoon as possible.
6.10	UNJUST DISCHARGE CLAIMS: A claim by a permanent seniority employee that he has been unjustly discharged shall be treated as a grievance if a written, signed statement of such grievance is lodged with the Human Resources Department within five (5) working days of the discharge date, and Steps Nos. 1 and 2 of the Grievance Procedure will be omitted in such cases.
6.11	Such discharge grievances may be settled under the grievance and arbitration procedures
by:
(a)	confirming the Company's action in dismissingthe permanent employee;
(t>) reinstatingthe employee with full compensationfortime lost; or (c) by any other arrangement which may be deemed just and equitable.
ARTICLE 7 - ARBITRATION
7.01	After having completed Step No. 3 of the grievance procedure, either party may request the
matter be submitted to arbitration, as herein provided, it shall make such request in writing addressed to the other party to this agreement, within thirty-one (31) calendar days, advising the other party of its intent to proceed to arbitration. In said written notice the party shall propose its nominees to act as a sole arbitrator.
Should that Party's nominees be unacceptable, the other Party shall propose alternate names. If the parties cannot agree on the selection of an arbitrator within fifteen (15) calendar days after the date the original written notice was received, either party may request the Ontario Minister of Labour to appoint one. The decision of the arbitrator shall be final and binding on both Parties.
The time limits specified in the foregoing may be extended by mutual agreement.
7.02	No matter may be submitted to arbitration, which has not been properly carried through all the required steps of the grievance procedure, except as may be agreed upon at Step No. 3 of the grievance procedure.
9
7.03	No person may be appointed as an arbitrator who has been involved in an attempt to negotiateor settle the grievance.
7.04	The arbitrator shall not be authorized to make any decision inconsistent with the provisions of this Agreement, norto alter, modify or amend any part of this Agreement.
7.05	The expenses of the arbitratorshall be shared jointly by the Company and the Union.
7.06	Nothing in this Article shall preclude either party from applying for arbitration under the expedited section <f the Ontario Labour Relations Act (presently Section 49).
ARTICLES -STRIKES AND LOCKOUTS
8.01	In view of the orderly procedurefor settling grievances, the Company agree that they will not cause or direct any lockout of their employees. The Union agrees that there will be no strike, slowdown or other concerted activity on the part of the employees in the bargaining unit which will stop, curtail or interfere with work or production.
ARTICLE 9 - SENIORITY PROVISIONS
9.01	Seniority will be based on the length of the employee's continuous service with the Company.
9.02	PROBATIONARY PERIOD: A new employee will be considered on probation and will not be placed on the seniority list until he has actually completed four hundred and sixty (460) hours worked for the Company in a period of six (6) consecutive months and his seniority shall commence to accrue from the date he actually commenced to work for the Company as a bargaining unit employee.
The provisions of this sub-section 9.02 shall apply only to employees hired on a permanent basis. They shall not apply to employees hired on a temporary basis to replace employees on the permanent staff who may be absent due to illness, leave of absence, or for other legitimate reasons, nor will they apply to persons temporarily hired to meet some emergency. The employment of persons hired as temporary employees shall not exceed seven hundred and twenty (720) hours worked unless extended by mutual consent of the parties hereto.
Such temporary employees shall have no seniority, nor shall their probationary periods commence until such time as they are confirmed in what is considered a permanent assignment.
9.03	SENIORITY LISTS: Separate seniority lists shall be established for each cf the following departments or groups of departments:
1.	Preparation	5.	Dyehouse
2.	Weaving	6.	Fabrication
3.	Maintenance	7.	Fashion
4. Shipping
Seniority lists will be provided on demand.
9.04	TRANSFERS: An employee transferred from one department or group of departments to another shall retain his seniority in his former group for a period of thirty (30) working days, after which time his seniority shall be credited to the department, in which he is then working, unless this period is extended by mutual agreement of the parties.
9.05	TEMPORARY TRANSFERS: In cases of temporary transfers for lessthan sixty (60) days, or any longer period by mutual agreement between the Company and the Union, the employee shall retain his seniority in the original group from which he was transferred. It is agreed that the Union will be provided with a copy of any such temporary transfer that is expected to exceed one hundred and twenty (120) working hours.
9.06	NOTICE OF LAYOFF: Except in cases of emergency, the Company will give twenty-four (24) hours notice, to all affected employees where a temporary layoff is likely to exceed one regularly scheduled working week, as defined in Schedule B. In the case of permanent layoffs, the Company will give notice in accordancewith the Employment Standards Act.
9.07	LAYOFF AND RECALL:
(a)	In the event of a layoff, the most junior employee(s) in the classification and shift affected will use their seniority to exercise their bumping rights as follows:
OPTION A	By seniority, the laid off employee may displace a junior
employee in the specified group of classifications,where applicable, or;
OPTION B By seniority, the laid off employee may retain the classification and displace a junior employee on another shift, or;
OPTION C	By seniority, the laid off employee may choose to retain a
position on their current shift and displace the most junior employee in the department, provided they have the skills and qualifications to perform the required work. If they are not qualified to perform this job, they may displace the most junior employee in the plant. If they fail to qualify for this job, they will be laid off.
(b)	RECALL: When the Company decides to increase the work force in the plant, the laid-off employees will be recalled in order of seniority, providedthatthe employee is capable of performing the required work.
9.08	JOB POSTING:
(a)	All vacancies except temporary vacancies will be posted on the bulletin boards for
three (3) working days. Only the initial vacancy and the first subsequent vacancy are required to be posted. Such postings shall include the job, rate of pay, the shift and any other pertinent information. Employees may apply by signing their names to the “Application for Job Posting” form. A summary of the posting shall be provided to the Union.
li
(b)	The Company shall select the applicant who possesses the required qualifications, skills and abilities to perform the job, and is the most senior of all qualified applicants. The Company shall post the name of the successful applicant within one calendar week and place them in their position as soon as practical. If no qualified applications for a posting are received, the Company may fill the vacancy by hiring from outside the Bargaining Unit.
(c)	When new machinery displaces any employee from an existing classification, the Company may give them preference in filling the job created by such new machinery. The Company agrees to post notice of any remaining vacancy, which shall be filled subject to the provisions of this clause.
(d)	Successfulapplicants(meaningthose who are awarded and stay in the position
for thirty (30) calendar days), to a posting may not apply	for	further
postings for a period of twelve (12) months from the date	of	last
posting.
(e)	If a successful applicant later proves unable to perform the job successfully at any time within the first thirty (30) calendar days or if during the first seven (7) calendar days, he requeststo be returnedto hisformerjob, he shall be returned to his former job and shift as soon as reasonably possible. Notwithstanding the above, an employee who has successfully posted to a lower paying job classification, shall not have the right to return to his previous job under any circumstances without the approval of management.
(9 While the Company is in the process of filling a vacancy or new job on a permanent basis. The experience, which such employee gains while performing in such temporary capacity, however, shall not be taken into account by the Company when selecting the most qualified applicant for this vacancy.
9.09	PROMOTIONS:	In the case of promotions, shift changes within a classification and
opportunities for advancement within the bargaining unit, seniority shall be the deciding factor, provided the employees concerned have relatively equal qualifications.
9.10	UNJUST DEMOTION CLAIMS: In the case of demotions, if an employee feels he has been treated unjustly he shall have recourse to the grievance procedure and return to his previousjob if it is found he was unjustly demoted.
9.11	SUPERVISORY PROMOTIONS: Promotions to supervisory positions shall not be subject to the provisions of this Agreement. It is clearly understood that Supervisor and assistant Supervisorwill only performjobs related to their position.
9.12	An employee who is transferred to a position which is not in the bargaining unit shall retain
his seniority rights for six (6) months and their job rights for a period of sixty (60) calendar days.
12
It is understoodand agreed that Company service will accumulate but that seniority shall not accumulate during this absence from the Bargaining Unit. Seniority dates shall be adjusted upon re-entry into the Bargaining Unit.
9.13	LOSS OF SENIORITY:
An employee shall lose all seniority and the employee’s employment shall be deemed to be terminated under the following conditions:
voluntarily quits the employ of the Company (see Letter of Intent);
is justifiably discharged;
following a lay-off and on being notified to return, fails to advise the Company within five (5) working days of his intention to return, and fails to return within five (5) working days of receiving such notification;
is absent without proper notification to the Company for more than one (1) working day. An employee having been absent without proper notification to the Company for more than one (1) working day may be considered to have severed his employment with the Company if, having been given a reasonable opportunity (having regard to all the circumstances) he should fail to present proof of his inability to notify the Company;
has been laid off in excess of the allowable periods below:
(i) Employees with three to twelve months seniority; allowable break equivalent to seniority.
(jj)	Employees with twelve months seniority or more; shall retain recall rights
for a maximum of one year from the date of lay-off.
An employee may be laid off while on a leave of absence, and such employee’s lay-off shall be considered to have started at the time of the lay-off and not at the start of the leave of absence.
9.14	ADDRESS CHANGES: It shall be the duty ofemployees to notify the Company promptly of any change of address or telephone number. If an employee should fail to do this, the Company will not be responsiblefor failure of a notice to reach him.
9.15	An employee shall not lose any seniority because of absence due to sickness, accident or
other unavoidable reasons, subject to the provisions of 9.13 above. If an employee finds that he is unable to report for work, he will notify the Human Resources Department during office hours or his own Supervisor before the start of his shift, or as soon thereafter as possible.
An employee who is receiving Worker's Compensation or Weekly Indemnity payments shall notify the Company as soon as possible when he is available to return to work and shall provide the Company with a medical Certificate. The Company shall not be required to
13
(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
(e)
allow such an employee to return to work unless it has been notified during the prior shift of the employee's intention to return to work.
9.16	LEAVE OF ABSENCE:
Leave of absence may be granted for legitimate reasons. It is agreed that such leave will not be unreasonably withheld. All requests for leave of absence shall be made in writing to the Human Resources Department thirty (30) days prior to date of intended leave stating the reason for the leave and the requested duration thereof. A copy of an employee's request for leave of absence shall be forwarded to the Union. The Company will reply to a written request for a leave of absence within one (1) week of the date of the said request. Where a leave of absence is denied the Company will notify the employee in writing of the reason for the denial of such leave with copy to be provided to the Union.
Leave of absence will not be granted to accept employment outside of the Company which are party to this Agreement, except to persons on medical leave. Upon commencing to work elsewhere, an employee on leave of absence other than medical leave shall be considered to have voluntarily left the Company's employ.
On Remembrance Day (November 11th) the Company will grant a maximum of three (3) hours unpaid leave of absence for any employee who wishes to attend Remembrance Day services, provided the employee has so notified his supervisor no Iaterthan4:00 P.M. on November4,h.
9.17	PREGNANCY LEAVE.
Shall be granted in accordance with the provisions of the Employment Standards Act for Ontario.
9.18	BEREAVEMENT LEAVE:	Should a bereavement occur in an employee's immediate
family, he/she may request a bereavement leave and will be allowed reasonable leave to attendthe funeral or conduct related businesswhere required. He/she will be reimbursedat his average hourly earnings for the time granted on such leave provided that the total amount of such reimbursement shall not exceed the aggregate of twenty-four (24) hours (to betakenas3x8 hourshifts).
The Company may require proof of the event, facts and relationship before making reimbursements as above. Should a bereavementoccur in an employee's immediate family and the employee does not attend the funeral, he/she may request a bereavement leave of one day and will be paid for one lost regularly scheduled work day within the three consecutiveday period following the date of death.
The term “immediate family” shall mean an employee’s spouse, father or mother, brotheror sister, children, child of spouse, stepchild, father-in-law or mother- in-law, sister-in-law or brother-in-law, legal guardian, grandparent or grandchild, stepfather or stepmother, stepbrother or stepsister, son-in-law or daughter- in-law, spouse's grandparent.
(a)
14
Applicable Federal and/or provincial legislation will be followed when defining the term spouse and/or common-law partnership.
ARTICLE 10-WAGES
10.01	The Company agrees to pay and the Union agrees to accept for the term of this Agreement,
the schedule of wage rates for the job classifications in effect at the date hereof and as set out in Schedule “A”, which forms part of this Agreement. The Company shall advise the Union in writing prior to any employee’s rate being adjusted during the life of this Agreement.
10.02	TEMPORARY TRANSFERS:	An employee temporarily transferred to another job
classification to meet production requirements or due to machine breakdown will be paid at the rate of the new job, or on the basis of his/her average hourly earnings, whichever is the higher.
An employee temporarily transferred to another job classification for reason of lack of available work on his regular job shall be paid at the rate of the new job, or at the “base rate”, whichever is the higher.
A temporary transfer will not exceed thirty (30) working days, unless extended by agreement of the parties hereto.
10.03	REPORTING ALLOWANCE:
The Company agrees that an employee who has commenced work, or who is reporting for work at his/her regular time, unless previously notified to the contrary, shall be furnished with four (4) hours work or given four (4) hours pay at his thirteen week (13 week) average hourly earnings in lieu thereof. The provisions of this paragraph shall not apply in the event of power or steam failure, fire, flood, or other condition beyond the control of the Company.
10.04	CALL-IN PAY: If an employee is called back to work after his regular scheduled hours without being notified prior to the end of his shift, he will be paid a minimum of four (4) hours at straight time, provided that if the time taken to perform the work required exceeds three (3) hours, he will be paid at the regularovertime rate as specified in paragraph 12.02 below, and the four (4) hours' guarantee referredto herein shall not apply.
10.05	JURY DUTY: An employee summoned for jury duty or subpoenaed as a witness for the Crown will be remunerated for time lost from work for this purpose by being paid the difference between his average hourly earnings, excluding overtime as shown in the most recent payroll statistics, and the amount of remuneration he receives for his service as a jury man or as a subpoenaed witness, if such amount is less than he would have earned if he had otherwise been at work.
The Company will require written proof of jury service or Crown witness service prior to reimbursement.
15
10.06	JOB MAKE-UP PAY: If an experienced employee’s work assignment is less than one hundred per cent (100%) of a job, make-up will be to one hundred per cent (100%), with payment calculated at the base rate.
10.07	PAY DAY: The Company agrees to pay weekly wages on Thursday. The Company will endeavour to pay employees on the 11:00 to 7:00 shift during the Wednesday to Thursday shift.
10.08	AVERAGE HOURLY EARNINGS DEFINED: Average hourly earnings as stated in this Agreement shall mean the individual employee‘s average hourly earnings, excluding overtime and shift premium, and basedonthe most recent available payroll statistics.
10.09	INJURY PAY: An employee who is injuredon the Company’s premisesshall be paid for the balance of his shift at his average hourly earnings.
10.10	INCENTIVE JOBS:
(a)	New employees hired on an incentivejob shall be paid a starting hourly rate set by the Company, which will enable the employee to reach the full rate after a reasonable apprenticeship period. If hired below the base rate, the employee shall be increased by a minimum of five cents per hour at the completion of the first four hundred and sixty (460) hours worked and five cents per hour per month thereafter until the full base rate is achieved. Employees on incentive jobs will be paid the higher of the above or actual earnings.
(b)	An employee transferred to an incentivejob shall be guaranteedthe lower of either his previous hourly rate or one hundred percent performance rate on the incentive job for the first four hundred and sixty (460) hours worked. After that time he will be paid base rate plus actual incentive earned. After a reasonabletraining period for the specific job, the employee is expected to perform at a standard of at least one hundred per cent (100%).
(c)	The Company further reserves the right to discipline, demote or transfer an employee as soon as it can be ascertained by comparison to the normal learning curve that the employee isfar below normal performance standards.
(d)	An employee transferred from a non-incentive job to an incentive job shall be entitled to a trial period of five (5) full working days and may, upon request, be returned to his/her former job at the completion of the trial period, unless the transfer was made to avoid a lay-off. The five day trial period may be extended by mutual agreement.
10.11	NEW CLASSIFICATIONS: Ifthe Company establishes a new classification they shall set a rate for that classification and so advise the Union. If the Union disagrees with the rate it may request a meeting with the Company within ten (10) days of notification, and such meeting will be held within thirty (30) days thereafter. If, after such meeting the parties still disagree concerning the rate the Union may requests meeting between the Company and the Union Engineers, who shalljointly study the job with a view to reaching agreement.
16
Any adjustments made to the rate as a result of these discussions will be made retroactiveto the date of implementation.
10.12	The Company will pay each employee who is required to supply his o m tools a Tool Allowance of $25.00 at the end of each contract year.
For employees in the Maintenance Department, who are required to supply a large number of tools, the Tool Allowance shall be One Hundred Dollars ($100.00) per annum.
ARTICLE 11 -WORK STANDARDS
11.01	It is recognized and agreed that it is the right of the Company to set and institute changes in tasks, work assignments and/or incentive time standards, provided that when an incentive time standard has been established, such incentive time standard shall remain in effect unless there has subsequently been a change, such as a change in method, materials, specifications, machinery, equipment, lay-out, or because of a clerical error in the setting of the rate. It is further agreed that in the event of any such change, the entire job or any part thereof may be restudied at the request of either party and a new time standard set therefore.
11.02	It is agreed that when off-standard conditions occur, routine adjustments in standard incentive rates may be instituted by the Industrial Engineering Department on a day-today basis.
11.03	When work is performed by an employee for which no standard has been posted, payment
will be made to the employee on the basis of his average hourly earnings.
11.04	It is agreed that notice of minor changes in standard incentive rates shall be posted by the Company in advance. A copy of such notice shall be supplied to the Union.
11.05	It is agreed that for major changes in standard incentive rates, discussion will be held between the proper representativesof the Union and the Company before major changes are made as outlined in 11.01 above.
11.06	In discussing proposed major changes in standard incentive rates, all necessary information required to understand the change will be made available to the Union to the effective date of the change.
11.07	The Union shall have the right to bring in its own experts at such discussions. Such persons
shall have the privilege of studying the actual operation in the plant.
11.08	If the matter is in dispute, the Company, if they deem it necessary, may institute a break-in period. The break-in period shall not exceed thirty (30) working days during which time employees will be paid at their average hourly earnings or actual incentive earnings on the new time standard rate whichever is the higher. At the conclusion of the break-inperiod, the incentive rate will be established and become effective, and employees shall participate in the wage incentive system.
17
11.09	The Company and the Union agree to co-operate to ensure a fair trial following the date the incentive rate becomes effective. If investigation, break-in period, etc., do not result in a satisfactory settlement, either party may invoke the grievance and arbitration procedures commencing at Step No. 2 of the grievance procedure by giving written notice to the other party not less than five (5) working days or more than twenty-five (25) working days from the date that the incentive rate was made effective. If neither party gives notice during this period, the incentive rates shall be deemed to be established and satisfactory to the Company, the Union, and the employees concerned.
ARTICLE 12 - HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
12.01	Schedule “B”, as posted and forming part of this Agreement, is the schedule of the hours of work.
12.02	OVERTIME RATES: All authorized work performed by an employee in excess of the standard daily or weekly hours as detailed in Schedule “B” shall be considered overtime and shall be paid for at the applicable rate specified in clause 12.03 below.
The Company agrees to post a list on the plant bulletin boards cf all the overtime hours worked by each employee.
12.03	WEEKEND OVERTIME:
(a)	FIVE DAY WEEK SCHEDULE - All authorized work performed by an employee
between midnight, Friday and Midnight, Saturday, shall be paid at the rate of time and one-half the employee's average hourly earnings.
An employee required to work continuously for more than twelve (12) hours will be paid at the rate of two (2) times his average hourly earnings for all hours over twelve (12).
(P) All authorized work performed by an employee between Midnight, Saturday and Midnight, Sunday, shall be paid at the rate of two times the employee's average hourly earnings.
(c)	The provisions cf this paragraph do not apply if work performed by an employee during this period forms part of his regular work week.
(d)	Weekend overtime will be paid as per articles (a) and (b) above if the employee has worked at least 40 regular and overtime hours in the week preceding the weekend when overtime has been scheduled.
Where the employee worked less than 40 regular and overtime hours in the week preceding the weekend when the overtime has been scheduled, weekend overtime up to 40 hours will be paid at straight time and hours in excess of 40 will be paid at the rates outlined in (a) and (b). If the employee worked less than 40 hours because the employer did not provide him/her with the opportunity to do so (was not the fault of the
18
employee) or the employee was absent due to a situation where they would be paid such as jury duty, the employee will be paid weekend overtime. The one exception to this where the employee was on vacation, this will not be counted as paid absence in the week. As per article 10.03, if there is a power or steam failure, fire, flood, or other condition beyond the control of the company, this will not be accounted for in the hours in the week.
12.04	PLANT HOLIDAY OVERTIME:	All authorized work performed by employees on
Statutory Holidays shall be paid at double time. This is in addition to any plant holiday pay the employee may be entitled to under the provisions of this agreement.
Plant holiday overtime that has been scheduled will be paid if the employee has worked the scheduled day preceding and the scheduled day after the statutory holiday. Where the employee did not work the day preceding and/or the day after the statutory holiday when the overtime has been scheduled, plant holiday overtime up to 40 hours will be paid at straight time and hours in excess of 40 will be paid at double time.
12.05	OVERTIME PAY LIMITATION: When computing overtime pay, in no case shall an employee be paid overtime on a daily, weekly and plant holiday basis for the same overtime hours.
12.06	SHIFT PREMIUM: In addition to the rates of pay listed in Schedule "A, the Company will pay an off-shift premium for all hours worked at regular rates of pay on the following basis:
for regular shifts commencing on or after 1 p.m., the bulk of whose hours fall before midnight, a premiumof twenty-five cents (25) per hour.
for regular shifts ending on or before 8 a.m., the bulk of whose hours fall after midnight, a premiumof thirty cents (30) per hour.
In no case shall these premiums be considered as part of the employees' basic rates of pay.
any employee who, at the date of signing this Agreement, is enjoying a premium structure more liberal than that defined above, shall continue to receive such premium, but it shall apply only to that employee, and shall become null and void when such employee ceases to be employed on his present shift basis.
12.07	The shift differentials referred to in paragraph 12.06 above shall not be subject to overtime or
other premiums.
12.08	PROTECTION REGULAR HOURS: Employees will not be required to lay off during regular
hours solely to offset overtime hours worked in the same pay period.
12.09	OVERTIME SCHEDULING:
(a)	In order to maintain the operations of the business overtime may be required. All
overtime will be administered on the following basis:
(a)
(b)
(c)
19
First: All overtime opportunities will be offered on a voluntary basis commencing with the most senior qualified employee who normally performs the job. A list for employees to sign for voluntary overtime will be posted on Wednesday of each week and employees will be selected from this list. Opportunities, which are refused shall be counted as hours worked as we attempt to equalize hours.
(b)
Then - In the event that the required number of employees is not available on a voluntary basis, then the qualified employee with the least seniority shall be required to perform the work. This process would continue from the bottom of the seniority list upward until the required number of employees is reached.
(cj Where overtime is required on short notice due to absenteeism or emergency conditions, the Company shall endeavourto select the senior qualified employee. These hours will also be counted toward equalization.
(d)
The following limitations apply:
(i)	Mandatory overtime will never be scheduled two week-ends in a row. It can be scheduled throughout the year, if required, and will be posted by the preceding Wednesday at 3:00 pm.
The other weekends will be on a voluntary basis and this can be posted at any time duringthe week precedingthe overtime.
(ii)	All Sunday overtime shall be voluntary except for employees in the Dyehouse who may be subject to the provisions of (b) above. Employees in the Fabrication Department shall only be subject to (b) for Sunday overtime in the event of a machine breakdown or due to an emergency beyond the Company's control.
(iii)	All overtime required on a statutory holiday week-end will be on a voluntary basis only.
(iv)	An employee on scheduled vacation on the Friday before the week-end of mandatory overtime will not be required to work the Saturday overtime.
12.10	FIRST AID ATTENDANT: Designated first aid attendants, of which there shall be one (1) on each of the three shifts, shall be paid twenty-five cents (25) per hour in addition to their regular rate.
12.11	TRAINING:
The Company agrees to pay a premium of one dollar ($1.00) per hourto an employee who is designated to train or give job instructionsto anyone who istraining in positions requiring two (2) monthstraining or thirty cents ($0.30) per hourto an employee who isdesignatedto train or give job instructions to anyone who is designated to train or give job instruction to another employee who is training in positions requiring less than two (2) months training. Such premium will not form part of the employee's regular hourly rate in the computation of
20
overtime, statutory holiday or any other form of premium or incentive payment or compensation.
ARTICLE 13 - PLANT HOLIDAYS
13.01	The following ten (10) plant holidays will be observed by the Company regardless of the days on which they fall. In the event a holiday should fall on a Saturday or Sunday, an alternate day off will be granted instead:
New Year's Day Good Friday Victoria Day Canada Day Civic Holiday
Labour Day Thanksgiving Day Christmas Day Boxing Day Floater Holiday
Company will not recognize Family Day.
The floater will be scheduled in or around the Christmas/New Year holiday period. The selection of the date shall be made by mutual agreement of the parties each year.
13.02	PAY RATES An employee will bepaidforthe numberof hourswhichconstitutehis normal work day as defined in Schedule "B“, if the plant holiday falls on a day in his regular schedule. If the employee is not regularly scheduled to work on this day, then he shall receive eight (8) hours pay at straight time. An hourly-rated employee will be paid at his regular hourly rate and an incentive worker will be paid at his average hourly earnings.
13.03	PROBATIONARY EMPLOYEES: Employees must have completed four hundred and sixty (460) hours worked for the Company before they are eligible for plant holiday pay. Where an employee completed ninety days of work he shall be eligible to receive retroactive payment for a plant holiday for which he otherwise would have been eligible during the sixty (60) days mentioned herein, or in accordance with ESA.
13.04	ELIGIBILITY: To be eligible for plant holiday pay, it is understoodthat the employee must work his full regular shift on the declared work day immediately preceding, and his full regular shift on the declared work day immediately following the plant holiday concerned. The "declared work day", as used herein shall mean the work day so declared by the Company.
13.05	SPECIAL CIRCUMSTANCES: Notwithstandingthe provisionsof paragraph 13.04 above, but
subject to the other provisions of this Agreement, the Company agrees:
(a)	to pay plant holiday pay to an employee who is absent due to death in his immediate family, as specified in paragraph 9.18. In no case, however, will an employee be paid for the same day under the provisions of this paragraph, and of paragraph 9.18;
(b)	to pay an employee who is absent from work because of personal sickness verified by a certificate signed by a licensedmedical practitioner cf good standing,
21
provided that the provisions of this paragraph will cease to apply to any employee when he has been paid for four (4) plant holidays during any one (1) continuous absence because of such illness;
(c)	to pay plant holiday pay to an employee who has not worked his full regular shift in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 13.04 above, because of circumstances deemed to be extenuating. In reaching such a decision, the Company will consult with the Union, and each case will be considered on its merits;
(d)	to pay plant holiday pay to an employee who has been granted permission to be absent all or part of his regular shift immediately before, or his regular shift immediately after a plant holiday.
13.06	The provisions of this article shall not apply to employees on layoff unless the employees
were laid off because of lack of work during the five (5) work days immediately preceding the plant holiday concerned and were not recalledto work prior to that holiday.
13.07	The provisions of this article shall not apply to employees on leave of absence. However, an
employee will receive plant holiday pay provided such leave of absence is for a period of two (2) weeks or lessandthe employee isotherwise qualified.
13.08	In no circumstances will an employee receive plant holiday pay mentioned above during any continued absence regardless of the reason for such absence.
13.09	In cases where a Statutory Holiday occurs during a scheduled vacation period, the employee shall be paid for the Statutory Holiday and that particularday shall not be considered part of the employee's vacation. In those cases where the one day vacation is still due to the employee, that day shall be scheduled at another time by mutual agreement between the employee and the Company, in which case the Company will withhold vacation pay for that day until it is taken. The purpose of this clause is to clarify that in such cases the employee shall not automatically have the additional vacation day carry forward to the first working day of the following week, as this has been disruptive to production and has adversely affected the possibility of scheduling other employee's vacations who may prefer that particular week.
ARTICLE 14 - VACATIONS
14.01	Employees in the employ of the Company as of the last day of the last full pay period in the month of June shall be entitled to vacation, with vacation pay to be computed as provided in paragraph14.02, as follows:
(a)	Employees after 1 year and less than seven (7) years' service with the Company --
two (2) weeks' vacation.
(b)	Employeeswith seven (7) years' service or over, butlessthanfifteen(15)years--three (3) weeks' vacation.
22
(c)	Employees with fifteen (15) years' service or over, but less than twenty-four (24) years -- four (4) weeks' vacation.
(d)	Employees with twenty-four (24) years' service and over - five (5) weeks' vacation.
Note: Forschedulingpurposes, aweek’s vacation shall consistofsx 8 hourshifts.
The above is on a go forward basis only, previous acquired weeks vacation that an employee has attained to the present time remains the same.
14.02	COMPUTATION: The total amount of vacation pay due each employee shall be based
on his length of continuous service with the Company, and shall be computed in accordance with the "Computationof Vacation Pay" table set out below:
COMPUTATION OF VACATION PAY TABLE
Length of employee's continuous
service with the Company	Rate of Vacation Pay
Lessthan 7 years, but more than 1 year
4% of employee'stotal earnings during the 12 month period ending with and including the last full pay period in the month of May
7 years or over, but less than 15 years	5%
15 years or over, but lessthan 24 years
8%
24 years or over
11%
The above is on a go forward basis only, previous rate of vacation pay an employee has attained to the present time remains the same.
"Total earnings" as listed above in this clause shall include the previousyear's vacation pay.
14.03	Notwithstanding the other provisions of this article, an employee whose employment with
the Company is terminated on any day prior to the last day of the twelve (12) month period ending with the last day of the last full pay period in the month of May, shall receive vacation pay for the portion of the said twelve (12) month period he/she worked for the Company, as follows:
An employee whose employment with the Company is terminated for any reason shall receive the amount of vacation pay to which he/she is entitled underthe schedule set out in the "Computation of Vacation Pay" table in paragraph 14.02 above for work performed during that portion of the said twelve (12) month period he/she worked forthe Company, and such payment shall be made in cash.
23
14.04	When an employee loses seven (7)continuous working days or more of employment while receiving benefits from the Workers' Compensation Board, or sick benefits, or who is on maternity leave, he/she shall be credited with the number of hours so lost as if they had been hours actually worked by the employee, up to a maximum total accumulation of twenty-six (26)weeks for the purpose of computing vacation pay. If the employee's absence is the result of one (l)accident or illness, the aforementionedtwenty-six (26) week maximum will apply during that absence.
The company will not schedule a vacation plant wide shutdown in the summer months but may schedule a vacation plant wide shutdown in the Christmas/New Year period and will be communicatedto the employees and union when decided by management.
A vacation schedule must be prepared by each department, finalized and posted by April 30 in each year. Employees will schedule their vacation in accordance with seniority and the schedule is subject to approval by the department manager.
Employees cannot schedule more than two weeks vacation in the period of June 1 to September 30 unless the department manager can accommodate this without any disruption to plant activity and maintaining the strict rule of vacation by seniority. The department manager will attempt to schedule more than two consecutive weeks of vacation outside of the June 1 to September 30 period.
Employees with two or more weeks of vacation entitlement must allow those employees with two weeks or less of vacation entitlement to schedule their vacation before the weeks in excess of two can be scheduled.
Any vacation requests from employees not scheduled by April 30 of the vacation year will be treated on a "first come, first serve" basis and will be approved at the discretion of the department manager.
Any requests to revise the vacation schedule must be approved by the department manager and is at the discretion of the department manager.
14.06	Unless special permission is otherwise given by the Company, a vacation week is to
commence on Sunday and end on the following Saturday.
14.07	Vacation pay will be computed as of May 31st of each year and will be directly deposited into the employee's account, in a separate deposit on the last pay deposit in June of that year.
14.08	The number of years of continuous service used in reckoning the rate of pay
to which an employee is entitled shall be computed as of the 30th of June.
ARTICLE 15 -SAFETY AND HEALTH
14.05	(a)
(d)
(e)
(f)
24
15.01
15.02 15.03
The Company shall make reasonable provisions for the safety and health of their employees during working hours.
The Company shall conduct a fire drill for all employees at least once in every twelve (12) month period.
The Union agrees that it will co-operate in the enforcement of safety rules and regulations.
The Company will make available to all full-time employees, while they are in the active employ of the Company, Group Life, A D. & D., Sickness and Accident Extended Medical Coverage Insuranceand Dental plans as follows:
The specific application and administration of all benefits and all matters with respect to the Insurance program provided for herein shall be governed by the terms of the plan or policy with the applicable insurance carrier. Any dispute over payment of benefits under any such plan or policy shall be adjusted between the employee and the insurer concerned and not to be dealt with through grievance and arbitration process. Applicable Federal and/or Provincial legislation will be followed when defining the term spouse and/or common-law partnership.
1.	Group Life Insurance Plan-- Ten Thousand Dollars ($10,000) for all bargaining unit
employees.
A D. & D. Insurance Plan - Ten Thousand Dollars ($10,000) for all bargaining unit employees.
2.	Extended Medical Coverage Insurance as providedforbythe policy:
100% of hospital charge for semi-private accommodation, no deductible.
(a) 100% of chargesfor prescription drugs, which are included in the Ontario Drug Benefit Formulary, deductible $10 single and $20 family.
Or:
(b)	a "pay direct" prescription drug card with a $3.00 per prescription deductible.
Fertility drugs and treatment are not covered by this "Extended Medical Coverage Insurance".
A percentage of charges for all other covered expenses, up to a stipulated maximum, with deductibles of $10 single and $20 family.
Vision Care: Benefits, as defined in the current booklet provided by the Insurance Company.
3.	Sickness and Accident Benefit - Provide weekly indemnity payments of 66 2/3%
of earningsto a maximum of the U.I.C. level with no "carve-out".
25
This plan shall be on a 1 -1 -4-26 basis. 4. Dental Plan
Dental Plan to providethe following features:
(a)	No deductible
(b)	Unlimited maximumfor covered expenses
(c)	80% co-insurance
(d)	Effective March 1, 2004 the 2003 ODA fee schedule shall come into effect. Effective March 1,2005 the 2004 ODA fee schedule shall apply.
Effective March 1,2006 the 2005 ODA fee schedule shall apply.
Effective March 1,2007 the 2006 ODA fee schedule shall apply.
5. Retirement Benefits
Employees will retire during the year in which they reach his/her sixty-fifth birthday unless it is mutually agreed to by the employee and the Company that the employee will continue to work after the sixty-fifth birthday. This agreement is at the discretion of the Company and the employee can be asked to retire at any time and would be entitled to the usual retirement benefits.
While the employee is employed after the sixty-fifth birthday, he/she is subject to all of the union contract clauses and company policies that are in place for all employees.
(a) An employee who retires at age sixty-five or greater pursuant to the Company's policy will be entitled to the following benefits, provided he/she has completedfive years' service with the Company immediately prior to the date of retirement:
(i)	A retirement allowance in the amount of $1,000.00.
(ii)	A paid up life insurance policy in the amount of $1,000.00.
(b) An employee who retires at age sixty-five or greater pursuant to the Company's policy will be entitled to the following benefits, provided he/she has completed fifteen years of service:
(i)	A retirement allowance in the amount of $1,500.00.
(ii)	A paid up life insurance policy in the amount of $1,000.00.
If, because of ill health, an employee is forced to retire before he/she reachesage sixty-five, the employee will receive, upon retirement, a $1,000.00 paid up life insurance policy, provided the employee has been in the Company's employ for fifteen years or more immediately prior to the date of retirement.
26
This Article shall apply to any employee who retired at age sixty-five subsequent to November 1,1990.
15.04	The Company agreesto pay 75% of the cost of the following:
Group Life Insurance Extended Medical Coverage Sickness and Accident Insurance Dental Plan
The Company agrees to maintain these percentage payments during the life of this agreement.
15.05	Employeesona leave of absence for a period greaterthan three (3) weeks shall pre-pay the full premiums if they desire premium coverage to continue during the aforesaid leave for Extended Medical Coverage Insurance. Employees on pregnancy leave shall pre-pay their required premium portion if they desire premiumcoverage to continue during such leave.
15.06	The Company will pay 100% of the cost, up to a maximum of one hundred Dollars ($100.00), of one (1) pair of safety footwear per contract year to Dyehouse, Technicians and Mechanics and Lift Truck drivers required by the Company to wear such safety footwear.
If circumstances change requiring others to wear safety shoes they shall be allowed a safety shoe allowance in accordance with the above language.
15.07	In the event the Province of Ontario should decide to abandon the current payment system for hospital insurance - the Employer Health Tax (E.H.T.) - and to revert to the same, or a similar payment structure as that previously in effect underthe Ontario Hospital Insurance Plan(OHIP) the Company agrees that they will contribute seventy-five per cent (75%) of the premiumcost of that insurance plan on behalf of all full-time employees while they are in the active employ of the Company.
This article will remain in the contract. But, it is agreed that the Health Tax put into effect on July 1,2004 by the Ontario Government is a tax and not an OHIP premium as per article 15.07. The company will not contribute 75% of this tax on behalf of the employees. It is also agreed that the union will not raise a grievance or challenge the Company on this agreement.
ARTICLE 16 -BULLETIN BOARDS
16.01	The Company agrees to extend to the Union the privilege of using bulletin boards to be located in the Mill in locations designated by the Company. The Union agrees not to use the boards for propaganda purposes.
27
16.02	The Union agrees that no pamphlets or other publications will be distributed on the premises of the Company without the Company's approval.
ARTICLE17 - UNION SECURITY
17.01	The Company agrees that all employees shall be obligated, as a condition of employment, to sign an authorization card authorizing the Company to deduct, on a monthly basis and from day one (1) of employment, union dues. Such deductions shall be remitted by the last day of each month in which the deductions were made, by cheque payable to the UNITE HERE Employees. It is further understood that employees shall be entitled to union representation from day one (1) of employment
17.02	Once an employee has authorized the Company to deduct Union dues, such employee shall
not be entitled to cancel the authorization so given while this Agreement is in effect.
17.03	At the time cf making each remittance hereunder to the Union, the Company will submit a list
of the names cr all employees from whose pay such deduct-ion has been made for the current month, and at the same time will also submit the following informationto the Union: a list of the people from whom no deduction was made for the current month, and the reasons
therefor - e.g.	
LE =	Left Company' employment
LO =	Laid off
IF =	fee
LA =	Leave of absence
SICK =	Away sick, and no wages payable
WC =	On Compensation from the Workers' Compensation Board
PR =	Promoted out of the Bargaining Unit
17.04	The Company will include on each employee'sT-4 form the amount of Union dues (excluding initiation fees) paid by him/her during the tax year in question.
ARTICLE 18 - CORRESPONDENCE
18.01	Except as otherwise provided, any notice which either party desires to give to the other shall be given by registered mail, as follows:
To the Company:	The Cambridge Towel Corporation
450 Dobbie Drive Cambridge, Ontario. NIR 5X9
To the Union:	UNITE HERE Ontario
460 Richmond Street West 2nd Floor Toronto, Ontario. M5V 1Y1 cc-Recording Secretary,
Local 1441, UNITE HERE Cambridge, Ontario.
ARTICLE 19 - MODIFICATION. RENEWAL AND TERMINATION
19.01	This Agreement shall continue in effectfrom November 1, 2007 untilthe 31st day of October,
2011 and shall continue automatically thereafter during annual periods of one year each unless either party notifies the other in writing within one hundred and twenty (120) days prior to the expiry date that a revision or discontinuance is desired.
19.02	In the event of such notification being given as to revision of the Agreement, negotiations between the parties shall begin within fifteen (15) days following such notification unless extended by mutual agreement of the parties.
19.03	If the parties enter into negotiations for the purpose of amending this Agreement, and agreement on the renewal or amendment of this Agreement is not reached prior to the normal termination date hereof, the termination of this Agreement shall be automatically extended until consummation of a new Agreement or completion of the conciliation proceedingsprescribedunderthe Labour RelationsAct of the Province of Ontario.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the Company and the Union have caused these presentsto be
executed by their duly authorized representativeson the 3rd day of March, 2009 in Cambridge,
Ontario.
UNITE HERE ONTARIO COUNCIL, LOCAL 14A1
29
WAGES
Wage Rates- See Schedule“A.
New employees shall be paid a starting hourly rate set by the Company, which will allow the employee to reach the full rate for the classification in question after a reasonable apprenticeship period. The normal apprenticeship period of each classification appears on Schedule "C”. New employees will be increased five cents per hour at the completion of their first sixty (60) working days and five cents per hour per month thereafter until they reach the maximum rate of the classification of the job being performed.
SCHEDULE“A”
CLASSIFICATIONS WAGE RATES
Dept./Class No.	Classification	11/1/07	11/1/08	11/1/09	11/1/10
PREPARATION:					
402	Warper Operator/Creeler	11.97	12.27	12.62	13.02
404	Slasher Operator	13.49	13.79	14.14	14.54
405	Slasher Helper	11.94	12.24	12.59	12.99
407	Slasher Operator - A	13.99	14.29	14.64	15.04
408	Slasher Operator - B	13.49	13.79	14.14	14.54
					
WEAVING:					
501	Weaver	13.88	14.18	14.53	14.93
502	Warp Hand	12.99	13.29	13.64	14.04
503	Warp Tyer	12.99	13.29	13.64	14.04
509	Roll & Fill Carrier	12.00	12.30	12.65	13.05
511	Draw-in	12.19	12.49	12.84	13.24
517	Oiler/Technician	12.50	12.80	13.15	13.55
					
DYEHOUSE:					
601	Lead Hand	13.66	13.96	14.31	14.71
602	Machine Operator	12.66	12.96	13.31	13.71
603	General Help	11.09	11.39	11.74	12.14
604	Material Handler	11.79	12.09	12.44	12.84
613	Batcher/Order Picker	12.66	12.96	13.31	13.71
					
FABRICATION:					
702	Slitter Operator	11.79	12.09	12.44	12.84
704	Bar Tack Operator	11.79	12.09	12.44	12.84
709	Inspector/Folder	11.39	11.69	12.04	12.44
710	Repairs	11.94	12.24	12.59	12.99
712	Polybaq/Polywrap Operator	11.09	11.39	11.74	12.14
713	Lead Hand	12.99	13.29	13.64	14.04
30
715	Pack & Record	11.79	12.09	12.44	12.84
717	General Help	11.09	11.39	11.74	12.14
718	Expeditor	12.04	12.34	12.69	13.09
720	Banjdan Operator	12.99	13.29	13.64	14.04
722	Manual Cuttinq	11.39	11.69	12.04	12.44
734	Jet Sew Operator	13.99	14.29	14.64	15.04
Dept./Class					
No.	Classification	11/1/07	11/1/08	11/1/09	11/1/10
SHIPPING:					
805	Shipper/Receiver	13.06	13.36	13.71	14.11
806	Packer/Loader	12.19	12.49	12.84	13.24
					
MAINTENANCE:	(See also Note 1)				
901	Mechanic-Ticketed	19.15	19.45	19.80	20.20
910	Apprentice note 2				
FASHION:
301	Printinq M/C Operator - A	15.86	16.16	16.51	16.91
302	Printinq M/C Operator - M	13.11	13.41	13.76	14.16
304	Screen Preparer	12.42	12.72	13.07	13.47
305	Colour Technician	14.54	14.84	15.19	15.59
306	Photo Screen Maker	14.72	15.02	15.37	15.77
307	Machine Loader	11.39	11.69	12.04	12.44
308	General Help	11.09	11.39	11.74	12.14
309	Machine Loader/Recorder	12.09	12.39	12.74	13.14
NOTE 1 :TICKETS
For additional tickets the base rate will be increased as follows:
First additional applicable ticket:	$1.00 per hour
Second additional applicable ticket:	$ .50 per hour
Third additional applicable ticket:	$ .50 per hour
NOTE 2:APPRENTICE RATES
Apprentice Rates will be based on the appropriate ticketed classification rate and will follow Ontario Ministry guidelines for years of experience and percentage of rate.
NOTE 3:
Employees who perform the work of a higher rated classification will be paid the higher rate for all time so worked.
31
SCHEDULE"E"
All departmentsexcept Weave Room, Shipping and Fashion on a 10-hours, 4-day/week shift.
Employeeswill work no more than every other Friday (if needed) for the months of January through May, plus December and no more than 2 in a row (if needed)from June to November.
The Company will not pay overtime on a Friday or Saturday, mandatory or not, according to shift schedule, when 40 hours is not achieved due to a vacation day being taken during the week.
Day shift:	- 5 am to 3 pm
Afternoon shift: - 3 pm to 1 am Rest periods will be 40 minutes per day total
FIVE DAY WEEK SCHEDULE
Employees in job classifications, which operate on a “5 Day Week Schedule” shall have regular shift hours as follows:
MONDAYTO FRIDAY 8 HOURS PER SHIFT REST PERIODS:
On straight eight hour shifts, a total of 30 minutes paid lunchtime will be allowed in periods mutually agreed and times as designated by the Company.
32
SCHEDULE"C" APPRENTICESHIP PERIODS
DEPT J CLASS. NO. PREPARATION
402
404
405
407
408
CLASSIFICATION
Warper Operator/Creeler Slasher Operator Slasher Helper Slasher Operator A
Slasher Operator B
MONTHS
1
2
1
3
3
WEAVING
501
502
503 509 511 517
Weaver
Warp Hand Warp Tyer
Rolls Fill Carrier Draw-In
Oiler/Technician
12
1
2
1
6
3
DYEHOUSE
601
602
603
604 613
Lead Hand Machine Operator General Help Material Handler Batcher/Order Picker
12
3
1
1
1
FABRICATION
702
704
709
710
712
713 715
717
718 720 722 734
Slitter Operator Bar Tack Operator Inspector/Folder Repairs
Polybag/Polywrap Operator Lead Hand Packs Record General Help Expeditor Barudan Operator Manual Cutting Jet Sew Operator
SHIPPING
805	Receiver
806	Packer/Loader
1
1
1
1
1
12
2
1
2
3
1
3
1
1
12
33
MAINTENANCE
901
Mechanic-Ticketed
910
FAS
301
302
304
305
306
307
308
309
Apprentice	N/A
Printing M/C. Operator A	6
Printing M/C. Operator M	6
Screen Preparer	6
ColourTechnician	6
Photo Screen Maker	6
Machine Loader	1
General Help	1
Machine Loader/Recorder	1
34
LETTER OF INTENT 1.
In interpreting and applying article 9.13(a) it is understoodthat "voluntarily quits" refersto an employee who voluntarily quits and who does not reverse his or her decision at least two (2) hours prior to the start of his or her next schedule shift and does not report for that shift. However, if coverage has been re-arranged for by the Company, the employee will be notified to report for a following shift, provided that in no event shall this following shift be more than three (3) working days following the employee's first action. It is understoodthat the Company retain the right to discipline the employee(s) involved, subject to the employee's right to grieve.
LETTER OF INTENT 2.
The Company agrees that in regard to the floater holiday that the Company will consult with the Union Committee before deciding on the date to be observed.
In cases where the Company would wish to observe a Plant Holiday on a date, other than the day on which it falls, the Company will consult with the Union Committee before deciding on such date.
The Company will post the final dates of such holidays at least two (2) months before the scheduled holiday.
LETTER OF INTENT 3.
The Company agrees to set up an arrangement with the local urgent care clinic so that employees who may be required to provide a doctor's certificate to either the Company or the insurance company may arrange to visit the designated medical facility with the cost of such notes or reports being paid for by the Company.
LETTER OF INTENT 4.
It is the Company's intention to discuss with the local union committee any matters affecting the Bargaining Union at the earliest possible convenience.
LETTER OF INTENTS.
The employer has not had, and has indicated that they will not have, off site meetings. If for any reason the employer calls a meeting off site we will revert to Article 5.03 of the collective agreement dated 2003 where the employer will pay eight (8) hours pay or the regularly scheduled shift at straight time pay.
36
NOTES
37
38
2009
January
J	*	T	1	T	I	I
!	2	3
4	5	9	7	8	9	19
SI	12	S3	14	15	Si	17
18	Si	2#	21	Z2	23	24
2$	21	27	28	29	St	31
May
I	N	T	W	T	f	I
t 2
3	4	5	1	7	8	i
II	11	12	13	14	15	1i
17	18	If	2t	21	22	23
24	25	2f	27	29	29	39
31
September
i	n	t	w	r	f	i
I 2 s 4 s
*	7	8	t	It	SI	12
13	14	IS	1«	17	18	19
29	21	22	23	24	25	2t
27	28	29	3i
		February		
s	K	T W T	t	S
1	2	3 4 5	t	7
a	9	19 It 12	S3	14
15	It	17 18 19	29	23
22	23	24 25 29	27	28
				
		lune		
t	St	T W T	t	1
	J	2 i 4	5	9
7	8	f It 11	12	13
14	15	<1 17 18	It	29
21	22	23 24 25	29	27
28	29	39		
October
t	X	T	W	7	1	S
1	2 S
4	5	i	7	8	9	It
11	U	13	14	15	It	17
18	19	29	2t	22	23	24
25	2t	27	28	29	39	Jt
March
S	N	T	W	T	f	t
1	2	3	4	5	9	7
8	f	It	tl	12	13	14
15	II	17	18	19	2t	21
22	23	24	25	2t	27	28
29 39 31
My
ft	N	Y	V	Y	V	I
12 3 4 5	i	7	8	f	ft	U
12	13	14	15	ft	17	18
19	29	21	22	23	24	2S
2t	27	28	29	39	31
November
S	M	T	V	I	f	S
12 3 4 5 17 8	9	19	11	12	13	14
1$	1i	tl	18	If	29	21
22	23	24	25	2*	27	29
29 39
April
5	K	T	W	T	t	l
12	3	4
5	t	7	B	9	19	13
12	it	14	15	2t	n	38
19	29	21	22	23	24	25
2t	27	28	29	39
August
3	N	T	W	1	I	S
t
2	3	4	5	1	7	8
9	19	11	12	13	14	IS
It	17	18	39	2*	21	22
23	23	25	21	27	29	29
39 31
December
I	Pf	T	V	T	f	1
1	2	3	4	5
1	7	8	9	19	11	12
13	S4	it	It	17	IS	19
29	21	22	23	24	25	29
27	28	29	39	31
u>
W
2010
January
S	M	T	W	T	t	S
I 2
3	4	$	6	7	8	9
10	(1	U	13	U	1$	16
17	18	19	20	21	22	23
U	25	26	27	3*	29	30
31
Hay
T vv r
s	m	r	vv	r	r	s
i
2	3	4	5	6	7	H
Y	10	II	12	13	14	13
16	|?18	19	20	21	22
23	24	2 3	26	27	2*	29
I 31
September
5 M T
5	6	7
12 13 14 19 20 21 26 27 28
if s
2	3	4
9	10 fl
16 17 is
23 24 15 30
February
S	M	T	W	T	F	S
1	13	4	5	6
7	8	9	10	II	u	13
14	15	u	17	IS	19	20
21	22	23	24	25	26	27
2#
June
5	M	T	W	T
1	2	3
6	7	8	9	10
13	14	1$	16	17
20	21	22	23	24
27	18	29	30
Marsh
s m	r	vi	t	v	s
1	2	3	4	5	6
7**1*	II	12	13
14 15	1*	17	1*	19	20
21 22	23	U	25	26	27
28 29	34	31
S M
4	5	6
II 12 13 IS 19 28 25 26 27
July T W T I
6	7 S
F S 2 3 9 10
14 15 16 17 21 22 23 24 23 29 30 JI
		October				
s	M	T	W	T	F	S
					1	2
3	4	S	6	7	s	9
10	11	12	13	14	15	16
17	18	19	20	21	22	13
24	25	26	27	28	29	30
31						
April
M	T	VV	T	F	S
I 2 3 S	6	7	8	9	l<>
12	13	14	15	16	17
19	20	21	22	23	24
16	27	28	29	34)
		November		
5	M	T W T	F	S
	1	2 3 4	5	6
7	8	9 10 11	12	13
14	15	t« 17 18	19	20
21	22	23 24 25	26	27
28	29	30		
December
S	M	T	W	T	PS
12	3	4
5	6	7	8	9	10	II
12	13	14	15	16	17	18
19	20	21	22	23	24	25
26	27	2*	29	30	31
o
20
January
s	M	T	VV	T	*	>S
2	3	4	5	6	7	8
9	HI	It	12	13	14	15
16	17	18	19	20	21	22
23	24	25	26	:27	28	29
Mi	31					
						
		May				
S	M	r	W	T	h	S
1	2	3	4	5	6	7
H	9	10	11	12	13	14
15	16	17	18	19	20	21
21	23	24	25	26	27	2#
29	»	31				
	September				
S	M	T	W T	¥	S
			1	1	3
4	5	6	7 8	y	10
11	12	13	14 15	16	17
18	19	20	21 22	23	.24
15	26	27	28 29	30	
February
S	M	T	w	T	*	S
		1	2	3	4	5
6	7	8	9	10	11	12
13	U	15	16	17	IN	19
20	21	22	23	24	25	26
27	28					
						
			June			
S	M	T	VV	T	r	S
			1	2	3	4
5	6	7	8	9	10	11
12	13	14	13	16	17	18
19	20	21	22	23	24	25
26	27	28	29	30		
		October				
S	M	T	W	T	F	$ 1
2	3	4	5	6	7	K
9	10	tl	12	13	14	15
16	17	18	19	20	21	22
23	24	25	26	27	28	29
30	31					
March
s	m	r	w	t	r	$
12	3	4	s
*	7	8	9	10	II	12
13	14	13	16	17	IK	IV
21)	22	22	23	24	25	2#
27	2X	29	30	31
November
5	M	T	W	T	F	S
1	2	3	4	5
6	7	X	V	10	II	12
13	14	15	16	17	IS	IV
20	21	22	23	24	25	26
27	2*	29	30
		April				
s	M	r	W	T	r	55 2
3	4	5	6	7	s	V
10	11	12	13	14	15	16
17	IK	19	20	21	22	23
24	25	26	27	2»	29	30
		August				
S	M	T	W	T	F	S
	1	2	3	4	5	6
7	K	V	10	II	12	13
14	15	16	17	IK	IV	20
21	22	23	24	25	26	27
IS	29	30	31			