SUMMARY OF BENEFITS
FIRESTONE TEXTILES
GROUP CONTRACT NUMBER: 1075
EFFECTIVE DATE:	REFER TO MA$TER CONTRACT
ELIGIBILITY PERIOD: As stipulated by|your Employer.
ISSUED: September, 1994
00809 (05)
SUMMARY f)F BENEFITS
EXTENDED HEALTH BENEFITS (]EHB)
Single Deductible - $5. per benefit year. Family Deductible - $10. per benefit year. 100% reimbursement of eligible charges in amount.
excess of the deductible
Paramedical Services - maximum amounts allowed subject to the EHB Plan deductible and percentage reimbursement shown above.
a)	Clinical Psychologist:
First visit	-
Subsequent visits	-
Maximum amount allowable	-
b)	Registered Masseur:
Per treatment	-
Maximum number of treatments -
c)	Speech Pathologist:
Maximum amount allowable	-
Semi-Private Hospital Accommodatidn Deductible - Nil.
100% reimbursement of the charge made by a hospital for semi-private room accommodation, which is in Excess of the standard ward rate, up to a maximum of 365 days.
Vision
up to $35.
up to $20. per hour
$200. per person per benefit year.
up to $7.
12 per person per benefit year.
$200. per person per benefit year.
Deductible - Nil.
100% reimbursement up to the malximum amount allowable as shown on your Blue Cross Certificate.
Travel Plan A - subject to the EHB deductible 100% reimbursement of eligible charge#. EHB Overall Lifetime Maximum • Unlimited.
PREDETERMINATION OF BENEFITS[ AND ALTERNATE BENEFIT PROVISION
Prior to beginning dental treatment which you should obtain from your dentist and plan outlining the procedures and charges, submit any relevant x-rays. After reviewing the amount payable by Blue Cross. The payable by Blue Cross and the dentist’s chfi
is expected to cost $500 or more, s ibrnit to Blue Cross a treatment Your dentist may be requested to the plan, you will be advised of difference between the amount rge is your responsibility.
Approval must be obtained from Blue Cfoss prior to commencement of treatment, and treatment must be completed within six months. However, the time allowed for completion of treatment! may be extended subject to the approval of Blue Cross.
Alternate dental procedures, services, courses of treatment and materials will be taken into account when reviewing your treatment plan. Payment for a less expensive procedure which will provide a professionally adequate result, may be made towards the cost of a more elaborate procedure or appliance chosen by you or your dentist.
DENTAL BENEFITS Plan 7, Riders 1, 2, 3 Deductible - Nil.
100% reimbursement of eligible charges,) up to the amount specified in the applicable Fee Guide, with the exception of the following:
Riders 2,3: 50% co-payment.
Dental Maximum
Rider 3 lifetime maximum - $l,00p. per person.
Dental Overall Maximum - Unlimited.
Fee Guide - Ontario Dental Association Fee Guide for General Practitioners as shown on your Blue Cross Certificate.
Note:
A benefit year is any period of 12 consecutive months beginning from the date
on which the first eligible expense is incurred.
If you have not enrolled for all the benefits described, please refer to your
Blue Cross Identification Certificate |for details of your personal coverage.
ELIGIBLE DEPENDENTS
Dependents (if applicable) include:
i)	your spouse or common-law spouse;
ii)	unmarried, unemployed childrei) under the age of 21 years, including newborns;
iii)	unmarried, unemployed dependent cnudren to any age who are incapable of self sustaining support or employment by reason of mental or physical disability.
TERMINATION OF BENEFITS
Coverage for you and your dependents will cease on the earliest of:
-	the last day of the month for which premiums have been paid;
-	the last day of the month in Much you cease to be eligible due to retirement, death, leave of absenqe, age limitation, change in classification, etc.;
-	the termination date of the Groilm Contract.
COORDINATION OF BENEFITS
If you have similar benefits through any otier insurer, the amount payable through this Plan shall be coordinated so that payment from all coverages shall not exceed 100 percent of the eligible [expenses.
DENTAL BENEFITS
DENTAL BENEFITS
DENTAL RIDER 1
The following benefits are added coverage. A complete list of the sp limitations) can be found in the Mastpi
to and form part of your dental scific procedures (and applicable :r Contract held by your Employer.
Payment for eligible benefits will be based on the Dental Association Fee Guide applicable to your group plan. Refer to your Summary of Benefits for information regarding arty deductible, co-payment or maximum benefit amounts.
BENEFITS
Endodontic Services — includes tfoot canal therapy, periapical and emergency services
Periodontic Services — includes beriodontal surgery, scaling, root planing and occlusal equilibration 18 units of time every 12 months)
Surgical Services — includes surgical incision/excision and frenectomy
In-office and Commercial Laboratory Charges — when applicable to the covered benefits
DENT 1001 4/90
fiBLUE CPOSB
DENTAL BENEFITS
DENTAL RIDER 2
The following benefits are added ip and form part of your dental coverage. A complete list of the specific procedures (and applicable limitations) can be found in the Mastpr Contract held by your Employer.
Payment for eligible benefits will tx Fee Guide applicable to your grouj Benefits for information regardinj maximum benefit amounts.
based on the Dental Association plan. Refer to your Summary of any deductible, co-payment or
BENEFITS
Complete and/or Partial Dentures)— (once every 5 years)
Major Denture Adjustments
Denture Repairs, Minor Adjustment, Rellnlng/Rebasing
In-office and Commercial Laboratory Charges — when applicable to the covered benefits
DENT 1002B 4/90
1^1 BLUE CROSS
utiMALajtsniiins
Jimittfii^i)4^;be found’lt( lit© Mu?5
to and form part of your dental ecific procedures (and applicable er Contract held by your Employer.
Pa^nci^it^fojT eligible benefits will bb e|l i HjFo rm atibii "regard t ng
based on the Dental Association plan. Refer to your Summary of any deductible, co-payment or
tn^itjfht^bbhefit amounts.
OjiiligU6itt^.;J|«fvlc0S; iinciudesf observation, adjustments, ortho-dort tlisap^iafice^.m	treatment and space maintained
Charges - when applicable to
yrtntmamicuipaimeJii
a olitjiiitog the details with: respect. to:maloc-..v^y^siSr	tinent and applicable ;fees. This
ded to Blue Cross for review to
TRAVEL PLAN
The following benefits provide protection wnen travelling (for other than health
reasons) or vacationing outside your province i|if residence.
Refer to the “Summary of Benefits” for inhumation regarding reimbursement of
this benefit.
Note: None of these benefits will be paid (or any condition resulting from a mental disorder; or to patients in chrolnic care hospitals, chronic units of general hospitals, or nursing homes.
BENEFITS
A)	Payment for the cost of hospital accommodation which is in excess of the amount paid by a provincial health plan or| any other Blue Cross Plan,
B)	Payment for charges made by physicians when such charges are over and above the allowance made by a provincial health plan.
C)	When illness or injury is such that you must tiy home and the physician or commercial airline stipulates in writing tljat you must be accompanied by a qualified medical attendant, Blue Cross paks the costs incurred for one round trip economy fare for the medical attendant (not a relative), and extra costs for the number of economy seats required to return the covered person, by most direct route, to the air terminal nearest the departure point in Canada.
D)	Subject to payment by a provincial health plan, charges made by chiropractors, chiropodists and podiatrists to a maximum of $10 Canadian per treatment date.
HOW TO CLAIM BENEFITS
When eligible expenses are incurred outside your province of residence, request detailed receipts (in duplicate if possible). Send one set of receipts to your provincial government health plan for their consideration and payment. When they have replied, send original proof of their payment together with receipts and a completed claim form to your Blue Cross Plan or payment of remaining eligible benefits. Payment will be made in Canadian :urrency, based on the rate of exchange in effect at the conclusion of the service rendered as determined by any Canadian Chartered Bank. Please note that cla ms in foreign languages require an accompanying translation.
TPS* 1 . 1/84
EHC (EXTENDED HEALTH CARE) PLAN|
GENERAL INFORMATION ELIGIBLE DEPENDANTS
"Family" covers the employee, spouse and all of their unmarried, unemployed children under the age of 21 years including newborns unless stated otherwise on your Blue Cross Certificate.
OTHER FEATURES
No medical examination is required.
Benefits apply anywhere in the world. Reimbursement will be in Canadian funds up to the same amount you woulf have received if the service(s) had been provided in Canada, plus the rate of exchange if any, as determined from the date of the last service provided.
. Pre-existing conditions are covered front the moment the Agreement takes effect.
LIMITATIONS
Extended Health Care group coverage does npt pay for:
. Services normally paid through any provincial hospital plan, any provincial medical plan, Workers' Compensation B|pard, other government agencies or any other source.
. Services provided in a chronic care or ps general hospital, health spa, or when a pat home for the aged and receives Ontario gov
/chiatric hospital, chronic unit of a ent is confined to a nursing home or irnment assistance.
. Rest cures, travel for health reasons or insu|ance examinations.
. Any benefit provided outside Ontario atlan amount greater than Blue Cross would pay for such a benefit if provided in Ontario, with the exception of allowances for rates of exchange as outline^ under "Other Features".
HOW TO CLAIM BENEFITS
Receipts (or bills) for allowable expenses should be sent with a claim form (usually obtained from your personnel office), to: Ontario Blue Cross, 150 Ferrand Drive, Don Mills, Ontario M?C 1H6.
BENEFITS
HOSPITAL ACCOMMODATION:
(a) Hospital benefits as described belovjv approved by a medical doctor. Co or sickness not covered by Workers'
will be paid for hospital confinement refinements must be due to an accident Compensation Act.
(b) For semi-private and private room a to the difference in amount betweer the daily semi-private or private ro by that hospital. This benefit will all confinements for each eligible However, a further benefit of up to ments are separated by a period of a'
:commoaations, the benefit will be equal the daily Standard Ward Rate and either Dm rate, as the case may be, established paid up to a maximum of 365 days for employee or each eligible dependant. 365 days will be available when confine-least ninety (90) consecutive days.
be
(c)	The benefits provided in (b) abov|), will not be available for confinement for rest cures.
(d)	The benefits provided are also available to wives of employees and the newborn child of such when pregnancy commences while the employee or wife is covered by this Plan.
DRUGS: Drugs, serums, injectibles ancji use with insulin) purchased on the pri include vitamins and vitamin prepai proprietary medicines. The name, stri shown on all receipts.
insulin (needles, syringes and testape for •escription of a medical doctor, but not to nations (unless injected) and patent or •ength and quantity of the drug must be
ch
PRIVATE NURSING: Private duty registered in the jurisdiction in whi (not a relative), in the home, providing attending physician. This benefit don or overtime charges, or any amount nursing registry in the province of Ontn
nursing by a Registered Nurse who is the professional services are provided the private duty nursing is ordered by the s not include agency fees, commissions excess of the fee level set by the largest rio.
. PHYSIOTHERAPY: Services of a licensl does not have an agreement with the Ont payment of his/her services. Reimbursem would have been allowed by OH IP if he/sh
id or registered physiotherapist who irio Health Insurance Plan (OHIP) for ;nt will be based on the amount that ; were registered with them.
DIAGNOSTIC SERVICE: Diagnostic servii es performed at a hospital.
PRIVATE HOSPITAL: Charges up to $1C person while your coverage is in force for c
a day to a maximum of 120 days per ire in a licensed private hospital,
the following items when authorized cian: standard type artificial limb or
, PROSTHETIC APPLIANCES: Purchase 01
in writing by the patient’s attending phys_________.................. U1
eye, splints, trusses, casts, cervical collars, t races, catheters, urinary kits, external breast prostheses (following mastectomie; |, ostomy supplies (where a surgical stoma exists), corrective prosthetic lenses a id frames (once only for persons who lack an organic lens or after cataract surtery), custom-made boots or shoes or adjustments to stock item footwear.
. DURABLE MEDICAL EQUIPMENT: Purr when authorized in writing by the attend cane, walker, oxygen set, respirator, standa
hase or rental of the following items ng physician: hospital bed, crutches, d-type wheelchair.
. RADIUM: Bandages or surgical dressin is, blood transfusions, radium and radioactive isotope treatments when autlinrized in writing by the patient's attending physician.
. AMBULANCE: Professional ambulance services (the difference between the government agency allowance and the customary charge).
. PSYCHOLOGISTS: Payment for the services of a registered clinical psychologist up to $35 for the first visit and $20 perl hour for subsequent treatment to a maximum of $200 per person during a benefit year.
. MASSEURS: Payment iui me services of registered masseurs up to $7 per treatment for not more than 12 treatments per benefit year per person, only when the patient's attending physician authorizes in writing that such treatment is necessary.
. SPEECH THERAPY: Payment for the services of qualified speech therapists up to $200 per benefit year per personj only when the patient's attending physician or dentist authorizes in writing that such treatment is necessarv.
ACCIDENTAL DENTAL: Dental care to the mouth and not by an object witti The accident and treatment must oci must begin within 90 days of the acci
necessitated by a direct accidental blow ingly or unwittingly placed in the mouth, r while coverage is in force. Treatment :i Jent. and must be completed within one
CLI
year.
Rliie Cross must be notified imnrediately. Payment will be made up to the
fees set out in the Ontario Dental Assfr Practitioners in effect on the date of tr
iciation suggested Fee Guide for General iatment.
EXTRA MEDICAL FEES: Payment where permissible by law and inc temporarily residing outside his or her fees are over the medical association would be paid in the province of c benefits.
fir the professional services of a physician nrred while the person is travelling or province of domicile when the physician's fee guide and are not greater than what omicile, if it were legal to provide such
, EYEGLASSES: Eyeglasses up to th< person, in any period of 24 consecuti' prescription of a medical doctor or cosmetic purposes are not included, nci
amount shown on your certificate per ve months when provided on the written optometrist. Sunglasses or eyeglasses for r is the cost of eye examinations.
CONVERSION
When an employee or dependant leave, coverage through a special non-group is particularly valuable to persons chang longer qualify as dependants because of
Application for this special non-groi within 30 days of leaving the group
the group, he/she can obtain Blue Cross pay direct" plan. This conversion privilege jing employment and to children who no age, marriage or employment.
p "pay direct" coverage must be made
9500 (EHC-DI . 12/87
DENTAL BENEFITS
DENTAL BENEFITS DENTAL PLAN 7
The following provides a general description of the benefits available to you and your eligible dependents t inder this dental plan. A complete list of the specific procedures (and ai iplicable limitations) can be found in the Master Contract held by you ■ Employer.
Payment for eligible benefits will tx based on the Dental Association fee- Guide applicable to your grouf plan.
Refer to your Summary of Benefi ts for information regarding any deductible, co-payment or maximum benefit amounts.
BENEFITS
Examinations - includes complejte oral examinations once every 3 years and recall oral examinations once every months
Consultations - with patient (maximum 2 units every 12 months) or with another dentist
Radiographs - includes complete series once every 3 years, panoramic films once every 3 years, pcfsterior bitewing radiographs once every ^months
Diagnostic Services - includes bacteriologic cultures, biopsy and cytological examinations
Preventive Services — includes Prophylaxis (cleaning) once every £| ^months, fluoride treatment, orfil hygiene instruction once every q /f months
Fillings
Extractions — includes root extractions
Anaesthesia
Benefits are not payable for:

Services or supplies not listed undei
Benefits.
• Charges for endodontic or periodont c services, complete or partial dentures, crowns, bridgework or prthodontic services, unless included as a rider with this plan.
•	Services or supplies for cosmetic purposes.
•	Charges for procedures or appliances connected with implants.
•	Services or supplies related to Tfempcjromandibular Joint problems.
•	Charges for procedures in excess of those stated in the Fee Guide for General Practitioners, as shown qn your Blue Cross Certificate.
•	Services or supplies covered by any jovemment plan.
•	Services which commenced prior td your effective date of coverage, or for services completed after germination of coverage.