COLLECTIVE
LABOUR
AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
C.S. BROOKS CORPORATION CALDWELL PLANT AND
UNITED TEXTILE WORKERS OF AMERICA LOCAL 478
1993-1995
01
02
03
04
05
06
07
08
09
10
1L
12
15
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
Recognition anti Coverage
Rel at i onship
Management Functions
Representation and grievance procedure
Arbi teat ion
Discharge Cases
Strikes and Locknuts
Seniority
Productivity
Wage Payment Methods
Hours oE Work and Overtime
Repotting' tor Work
Wage Races and CalJ.-ln Pay
Shift Premium
Plant Holidays, Vacation with Pay and Insurance PI.
Bulletin Board
Beieavement
Union .Security
Leave of Absence
Notices
Renewal, Amendment and Termination Schedule	I:	Rates of Pay
Schedule	II:	Plant Uolidnys
Schedule	III:	Vacations with pay
Schedule	IV:	Insurance Plan
Schedule V:	Authorization card
INDEX
Preamble
Letter of Agreement (1)
This agreement entered into a s of the L5th day of February 1.994
BETWEEN:
C.S. BROOKS CORPORATION, CALDWELL PLANT, in the Corporation of the village of Iroquois, in the township of Matilda, in the Province of Ontario (hereinafter referred to as the "COMPANY").
OP THE FIRST PART
and
UNITED TEXTILE. WORKERS OF AMERICA (Local 470 ) (hereinafter referred to as the iTYtion").
OF T11E SECOND PART
1.01
1,02
2,01
2,02
2.03
3,01
ARTICLE I
RECOGNITION AND COVERAGE
The company recognizes the union as the sole and exclusive collective bargaining agent with respect to all matters properly arising under this agree ment for a I I of the company's hourly rated and piece- work, employees at its plant In the corporation of Village of Iroquois in the Township of Matilda, save and except supervisors, persons above the rank of supervisors, office and sales staff, as certified by the Ontario Labour Relations Board, clic 29th day of April L969 .	'
Where the masculine pronoun is used herein it shall, scan and include clic €e mlnine pronoun where the context: so applies
ARTICLE 2 RELATIONSHIP
a)	The company agrees that there will be no discrimination, interference, restraint or coercion exercised or practiced by the company or by any of its representatives with respect to any employee, because of his member-S.hip in or lawful activities on behalf of the union.
b)	The union agrees that there will he no intimidation, interference, restraint or coercion exercised or practiced upon employees of the company by any of its members or representatives,
The union agrees that there will not be any union activities or business conducted on the premises of the company, except as permitted by this agreement .
Work Performed by Management Personnel:
Work normally done by employees in the bargaining unit will not he performed by management personnel, except when actually instructing or training stv ployees, in emergency cases, when it is a question of experimental work, for the production of samples, for development purposes or other research work deemed necessary by the company
ARTICLE 3
MANAGEMENT FUNCTIONS
The union acknowledges that it is exclusively the function of the company t o:
o) maintain order, discipline and efficiency,
b) hire, discharge, classify, direct, transfer, promote, demote, lay o ff and suspend or otherwise discipline employees, subject to tho right to lodge a grievance as herein provided;
c) make and alter from time to time rules and regulations to he observed by Che employees, provided that they are not inconsistent with the provisions of this agreement; and
d) generally to manage the Industrial enterprise in which the company is engaged and, without restricting (he generality of the foregoing, to introduce or change machine processes; to make studies of and to institute changes in work loads, job assignments, wage payment methods, methods oC operation and work payment rates; to determine the products to be manufactured, method!, of manufacture > schedules of production, kinds and location of machines and cools to be used, processes of manufacturing, the engineering and designing of its products, Che control of inaterials and parts lo be incorporated in the products produced, and the extension^ limitation, curtailment or cassation of operations.
3.02	In the case where the company exercises its options as described in para'
graph 3.01 c) it will notify the union in writing five (5) working days prior to the implementation of such.
3.03	The company agrees that these functions will, be exercised in a manner
consistent with the other provisions of this agreement..
ARTICLE 4
REPRESENTATION AND GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
4.01
a) The union may elect or appoint from employees in each of the following departments, stewards whose duties shell he to a3dst employees working in the steward's department, and shift where applicable, in presenting their grievances to the designated representatives of the company lb accordance with the grievance procedure:
Department	Huahor of stewards
Yarn preparation	One	(I)	per	shlf t
Weave	One	( 1 ) pet		shift
Dye and Bleach	One	(I)	pet	shift
Sewing	One	(I)	per	shift
Maintenance (including Boiler House)	One	( I)		
Shipping and receiving	One	(1)	per	sh J f t
b) The company acknowledges the right of the union to appoint os select from amongst the department stewards on each shift, a representative to he known as a chief steward for that shift.
4.02, The company agrees to recognize a grievance committee composed of parsons designated as officers or stewards or chief steward, the chairman of which shall be the union president or his designate, provided that not mor8 than six (6) members of the committee (including the chairman) shall meat with the company at one time to deal with a grievance.
It is understood that the above mentioned number of union representotivex will not exceed one (1) par occupation within the same department and neither exceed two (2) per department if they are on different occupations.
4 .03
4.04
4.05
4.06
Employees shall not be eligible to servo as stewards or as chief steward or as members of the grievance committee unless they hove been in the company's continuous employ for at least three (3) months.
The union shell keep the company notified in writing of the* names of its authorized stewards and chief stewards and other officers, and the respective effective dates of their appointment.. The company shall keep the union notified in writing of the names of supervisors who may be celled upon lo act with respect to the administration of this agreement.
The union acknowledges that the stewards and chief stewards and members of the grievance committee have their regular duties to perform on behalf of the company and that such persons will not leave their regular duties without receiving permission from their supervisor which will not be unreasonably withheld. They shall state their destination to their supervisor, together with their reasons therefore, and shall report again to their supervisor at the time of their return to work if the supervisor is io the department.
It is the mutual desire of the partieqVher*Lo that complaints of craployc.es shall be adjusted as quickly as possibly, and it is understood that an employee has no grievance until he has first given ills supervisor an opportunity of adjusting his complaint. If an employee has a complaint he shall discuss it with his supervisor within twenty (20) working days after the occurence of the circumstances giving rise to the complaint, and foiling settlement it may then be taken up as a grievance within throe (3) working days (seven (7) working days for employees on weekend shifts) following receipt of the supervisor's decision as follow:;:
STEP NO. I:
The employee will present his grievance in writing to his supervisor. The employee concerned and the steward or in case of absence of the steward the chief steward shall discuss the grievance with the supervisor,
Failing a settlement, the supervisor shall deliver his decision in writing three (3) working days (seven (7) working days for employees on weekend shifts) following the presentation of the grievance to him bailing settlement:
STEP NO. 2:
Within three (3) working days	(seven (7)	working days	for	employees on weekend
shifts) after	the decision is	given under Step No.	1,	the	grievance will be
submitted in writing and presented by the employee accompanied by the steward or in case of	absence of the steward by	the chief	steward	to the personnel
manager The	grievance shall,	state the	reason(a)	for	the	supervisor's
decision under Step No 1, being unacceptable. The personnel manager shall deliver his decision in writing within six (6) working days (seven (7) working days for employees on weekend shifts) after receiving the written grievance. Failing settlement:
STEP NO. 3:
Within five (5) working days (seven (7) working days €or employees on weekend
shifts) after the decision is given under Step No. 2, the grievor with the assistance of the grievance committee will submit the grievance In writing lo the plant manager or in his absence the personnel manager of the company. The grievance shall state the reason(s) for the plant manager's or personnel manager's decision under Step No. 1 being unacceptable A meeting will then be held between the plant manager or personnel manager and the grievance committee, and an accredited representative of die union shall be present at the request of either the company or the union. The steward from the area concerned or the chief steward if he has been previously involved in thp settlement of that grievance may displace one of the members of the grievance committee at such meeting. The union committee will notify the company of any steward or grievor wishing to attend a meeting concerning their grievance.
The decision of the plant manager or personnel manager shall be delivered in writing within seven (7) working days
It is understood that the plant manager or personnel manager may have such counsel and assistance as he may desire at any meeting with the union grievance cornrni t tee.
4.07 4 .08
4.09
4.10
4.11
4.12
4.13
4.14
4.15
Any collective Grievance may be submitted by the department: steward or In case of absence of the department, steward by the chief steward to the Mi 1ft supervisor or department supervisor within the same delays as spelled out above provided said grievance la signed by at least one of.the employees Involved and or one of the officers of the union.
Failing settlement under the foregoing procedure of any difference between the parties arising from the interpretation, application, administration or alleged violation of this agreement, including any question as to whether a matter is arbitrable, such difference or question may be submitted Lo arbitral: Ion as herein of ter provided IF no written request for arbitration Is received within ten (10) working days after the decision under Step No. 3 is given, it shall be doomed Lo hove been settled or abandoned.
For the purposes of articles 4 and 5 n working day means a clay from Monday Lo Friday excluding statutory holidays and days when the Personnel Department is closed*
Al 1 agreements reached under the grievance procedure between the representatives of the company and the representatives of the union or between the cmployee(a) and tho company' provided i I is not contrary to the provisions of this agreement, will be final and binding upon the company, the union and the employees.
In all seeps of the .grievance procedure, where no written answer has been given-within the time limits specified, the employp.e(9) concerned or the union, gS the case may be, shall be entitled to submit the grievance to the next step of the grievance procedure, including arbitration.
At any stop of tho grievance procedure ne.cesaary Arrangements will be made lo permit the conferring parties lo have access lo the. plant to view disputed operations and to confer with necessary witnesses, provided sufficient advance notice is given.
Any and oil time limits fixed by this article and article 3 any ai: any Lime be extended by written agreement be tweed* the company and the union.
At the request of either party n meeting; will be lie Id once, each month between the grievance committee and n company .committee appointed by the. plant manager. Such meeting shall be held not more than two (2) weeks after the presentation of the. proposed agenda 3/ the party requesting tho meeting.
(a)	No monetary adjustment affected under the grievance procedure or arbitration procedure shall Bo made retroactive prior lo the dote the grievance was formally presented to the company under tf?e grievance procedure , except as tu a grievance, claiming payment of an improper wage rate which may be made retroactive to the date the grievance occurred,
(b)	In cases of missed overtime, or .incorrect order of recoil over (3) eight hours the company shall pay for all lust wages incurred, anything (H) eight hours or less shall be rectified by remedy in kind.
5.01
5.02
5.03
5.04
3.05
ARTICLE 5 ARBITRATION
When a written notice lor arbitration is received by the company in accordance with the terms of article <5.08, the grievance shall forthwith be submitted to a sole arbitrator to be chosen in rotation amongst the following arbitrators:
Michel Pichd	Jean-Guy Clement
J.F. Weacherhill	Holland Tremblay
Claude Lauzon
In the event that the designated sole arbitrator cannot meet the parties within a reasonable delay or in the event that the designated sole arbitrator has not yet rendered his decision on a previous grievance, the next arbitrator will be chosen.
In the event that all above mentioned arbitrators are unavailable, the parties will request that the Department of Labour of the Province of Ontario designate an arbitrator.
Should the grievance concern a task, job assignment and/or work payment rates, the arbitrator shall be a competent textile engineer appointed from any of the following.
Churron> Bourgetel et An. TLnrg.
Woods, Gordon & Co
or such other qualified industrial textile engineer as may be agreed upon.
No matter may be submitted to arbitration which has not been properly ------- ....ough all previous seeps of the grievance procedure
Decision:
The decision of the sole arbitrator will be final and binding on the partle lo the present agreement arid all other employees concerned
Limitation of power:
The sole arbitrator shall not be authorized to make any decision inconsistent with the provisions of the agreement nor to alter, modify or amend any of this agreement:.
Pees and expenses:
The fees and expenses of the sole arbitrator will be paid on the basis of ono- half by the company and one- half by the union
6.01
6.02
7.01
8.01
ARTICLE 6
DISCHARGE CASES
a)	A claim by an Employee who has complefcrid his probationary* period that ire has been unjustly dischai>;ftd shall be treated as a grievance if a written statement of such grievance is lodged with the plant manager or In his absence the personnel manager of the company within five (5) day:; after the employee ceases to work for the company and the first utnp of the grievance procedure will be omitted in any such case. The company agrees to notify the union in writing of a discharge at the time of such discharge and, if requested within twenty~[our (24) hours thereafter*,
wi II hold an interview conducted by the personnel manager before the discharge is considered final. Prior to such interview the company will advise the employee's steward of the arrangement and the steward will be given the opportunity to be present at the commencement of the interview and, i f the employee wishes, the steward may remain throughout the interview.
b)	Incase of a discharge, the company will advise the employee's available steward or in his absence the chief steward or a union representative who will be given an opportunity of being present to discuss the circumstances that required disciplinary action.
Such special grievance may be settled under the grievance and arbltution procedures by:
a)	confirming the company's action in dismissing the employee,
b)	reinstating the employee with full compensation for the time lost; ot
c)	by any other arrangement which may be deemed just and equitable and mutually agreed upon.
ARTICLK-2
STRIKES AND LOCKOUTS
The company agrees that there will be no lockout of employees and the union agrees that there will be no strike, slow-down, sit-down or other action which will i n t e rf e r e w i t h work or production. IF any such action takes place, the union agrees to instruct its members to carry out the provisions of this agreement and to return to work and perform their duties.
ARTICLE 8 SEMTOXITY
Definition:
For the purposes of this agreement, seniority means the total, lenght of continuous service accumulated with, the company by an employee, In accordance with the conditions, provided hereunder in paragraph 8.02.
0.	02.a) Probationary Period
Ar employee will be considered on probation and will not bo subject to the seniority provision^ of the agreement until,aCte.r he Has completed four hundred and eighty ( 400) hours of work in the bargaining unit within a period of six (6) conaocubive calendar months '(nine (9) months for employees on weekend shifts) excluding departmental shutdowns from the si x (6) or, nine (9) month period, from the date of hire^ upon completion of such probationary period the employee's name will be placed on the seniority list of his department, with seniority dating from his date of hire. The fo lowing is a list; of departments for seniority purposes.
1.	Yarn Preparation
2.	Weave
3.	Dye and Bleach
4.	Sewing
5» Maintenance (including Boiler House)
G. Shipping and Receiving
b)	Transfer into the bargaining unit:
1.	Any employee, who has worked on an occupation covered by the bargaining unit and who has been transferred before November d th, 1 907, lo an occupation not covered by the agreement will be credited for seniority purposes with hii total length of continuous service accumulated within the bargaining unit if he is transletrod again lo an occupation covered by the present agreement.
It in understood that said employee will have the right to use one of the Following options when so transferred.
Replace the least senior employee on the former occupation and shift that he held prior to his transfer outside the bargaining unit..
Replace the lease senior employee on the said former occupation and on the schedule of his choice.
Replace the least senior employee on the shift of his choice on any occupation he has fulfilled satisfactorily prior to his transfer outside the bargaining unit.
To be transferred on en open occupation or an occupation held by the leant senior employee.
2.	* Any employee, who works on an occupation covered, by the bargaining unit and is
given an opportunity alter November 4th, 1987, to attend educational or training courses or any employee trained lor a non-bargnintng unit occupation, will be credited lor seniority purposes with his total length of continuous sei-vice, I f he should be subsequently transferred into the bargaining unit within twelve (12) months of compTeCion of said courses or training.
Prior the commencement of said course or training, the company will Inform the union in writing with the name of the'employee concerned os well as an estimated period of time of the duration (maximum of twenty-four (24) consecutive months) for said course or training.
3.	After November 4th, 1 987 , any employee who works on an occupation covered by the bargaining unit nod who is subsequently transferred to an occupation not covered by this agreement will he credited lor seniority purposes, with Ms total length of continuous service if he is transferred again into the bargaining unit within twelve (l%)months.
In the case where an employee is reinstated into the bargaining unit ns per the provisions of 8.02 b) 1, 2 and 3, said employee will remit to the union a sum equal to the amount of union dues lor the period so spent up to a maximum of 24 months outside the bargaining unit.
Said remittance will be in accordance with one of tlia following choices made by said employee before his transfer outside the bargaining unit.
-	By cash
-	By doubling his weekly union dues
By tripling Ms weekly union dues
8.03
8.04
8.05
8.06
8.07
Tima lost in excess of nine (9) months In the case of layoff and in excess of twelve (12) months in the event of sickness or accident will not bo counted in computing an employee's seniority; however, in cases covered by die Workmen's Compensation Act tine lout during the period of compensation will be counted.
Tho provisions of this paragraph do not apply io probationary employees whore time loot for any reason will riot be counted in determining the completion of the probationary period.
Lone of Seniority;
An employee shall lose a 1 1 seniority and his employment shall he terminated i£ li<
a)	voluntarily quits tho employ of the company;
b)	is discharged For just cause and the discharge is not reversed through the grievance procedure;
c)	fails for no acceptable reason within seven (7) days pursuant lo notification sent by registered mail by tho company to report to work following a layoff or to advise the company of hi:; intention to report to work pursuant lo the said notification;
d)	has been laid off for a period of time equivalent to the length of his seniority at the time he was laid off up to a maximum of twenty-four (24) months, the whole subject Lo sub-paragraph (c) above;
e)	is absent, due to sickness or an accident tor more than twelve (.12) months in the case of an employee with less than five (5) years' seniority and twenty-four (24j months in the case of an employee having five (5) years' or more seniority, if at; employee advises the company at the end of tho said twelve (12) or twenty- four (24) month period, as the case may be, and once every six (6) months thereafter of his intention to return to work, his seniority will not be broken. These provisions do not apply in Workmen's Compensation cases and seniority will not be broken during tho period of compensation.
Application for Depiority;
Seniority rules are applied firstly io the employees of the department concerned before looking elsewhere in the plant.
Definition of vacancy:
For purposes of this article U a vacancy results either from the normal turnover of personnel, such as retirement, resignation, death, pronation, dismissal, demotion for cause or transfer of einployp.es to jobs nut covered by this bargaining unit or from an increase in the number of employees required on an occupation. The above docs not imply that pa rt ic u I a r j o b vacancies must necessarily he filled. However, should the job remain in operation it shall, be filled in accordance with the provisions of article 8.07.
In the case of job vacancies, the following procedure will apply:
a)	The company will post the job vacancy notice for a period of seven (7) days on the departmental and central bulletin board and will remit a
copy to the departmental steward. However, the company is not required to post any job vacancy where duration of tire vacancy docs not exceed sixty (60) working days. A temporary job vacancy is that which is defined under article 8.11 - Temporary transfers, subheadings Ma" to "f".
b)	Employees who are interested in the Job vacancy will offer their candidacy by requesting a job bid form from their supervisor.
c)	I f no employee in the department concerned has offered Ills candidacy or .If no candidates are qualified in the department, the company will consider from other employees who have applied.
d) In the choice of the employee lo occupy the job vacancy, seniority ohnl.l prevail among employees who have offered their candidacy providing they are qualified to perform the occupation for which they arc n candidate os outlined in paragraph 8.09.
8 *uo
8.09
e)	• I. The company will port acknowledgement notices for all candidness to
any job vacdwcics. The name of the successful applicant will be posted on a job award notice for any job vacancy for a period of Pour (4) working day s.
the company will advise the successful, applicant of any job vacancy within one week from the expiry date of the job posting period.
The company will, send a copy of the job posting and the award of the successful candidate to the Local union.
2. The company will place the successful applicant on the occupation within fifteen (15) working days of the end of the posting period except where such appointment would disrupt normal production flow and/or needs and the requirements of quality,
f)	It is agreed that the company may temporarily fi II the job vacancy during the posting period without restriction.
g)	[he employees who have bid for the job vacancy as described in sub-paragraph (b) above arc the only ones who may later file a grievance,
h)	An employee who has thus been granted an occupation at an equivalent or lower contractual wage raced job will, not he permitted to bid to bis former occupation or an equivalent or lower contractual rated job for any future Job vacancy during the ensiling year.
In any cases when an employee has been granted an occupation at an equivalent or lower contractual wage rate job, he will then receive the contractual wage rate of the job he has been granted if it is unmeasured or measured hourly, and if it is a piece work job he will than receive the guarantee rate of said job or according tu his performance,
i)	In exceptional cases where employees who have been promoted and who cannot perform during the training period, a demotion or transfer can be considered only by mutual agreement of both parties.
When the company nevertheless wishes io demote or transfer art employee for reasons of ill- health, the employee will be given preference according to his coniority if it is an occupation which ho has previously fulfilled satisfactorily in the same department or if ho has not previously fulfilled this occupation, if he is qualified to do the work. This, however, does not preclude the right of the employee who is demoted or transferred from lodging a grievance on the basts that bis demotion or.transfer was unjustified.
Preference of assignment:
In the case of preference of assigment requested by employees the following
will apply:
a)	When a vacancy occurs on an occupation on a particular shift, a maximum of one (1) change in assignment will be permitted upon request of an employee working on the occupation and shift concerned on l:1»n basis of seniority.
b)	The preference of assignment as described above will bu granted to the employee currently wotking on the occupation and shift concerned prior to filling the job vacancy
c)	The parties agree that in no other circumstances rill there be a preference of assignment among the employees currently working on the some occupation.
L The following factors will be considered in evaluating an employee's
skill, competence and ability related to the performance of the work for which he is a candidate.
a)	Physical requirements of the occupation and physical qualification of the candidate.
b)	Results of aptitude casts.
8.10
8.11
c)	Successful participation in training courses for the occupation lor which he is n candidate, These training courses ves? take the form of theoretical courses;, on-tha-job training in the department or in the training center.
d)	Licences whore required,
e)	For the john involving the handling of a crew, the ability (:o direct people shall also ho considered.
f)	To utilise an aptitude test as a factor of consideration to evaluate an employee, the company must:
1,	Consider new experience since, lost test and allow an employee applying tor a job to undertake same test as other candidates .
2.	Act same as above in cases of courses followed by an employee in relation with requirements of posted occupation.
It is understood that some of these above-mentioned factors will have more relative importance than other:, depending on Che occupation which is vacant.
2, Should the company decide to give training courses to its employees on various occupations, the employees who arc chosen will be selected according to the provisions of paragraph 0.09,
Permanent transfers:
A permanent transfer is a permanent assignment of an employee by the company to a job vacancy in another occupation at the name wage rate.
tn the case of permanent transfers, the same principles will apply as outlined above in paragraph 8,09* An employee will carry bin seniority with him immediately upon being transferred permanently to a different department.
It is understood and agreed that an employee on the seniority list is not obliged to accept a permanent transfer,
Temporary transferal
A temporary transfer is a temporary assignment of an employee at the request of the company to a temporary job vacancy in another occupation at a higher wage rate, at a lower wage rate or an equivalent wage rate.
IC is understood that temporary transfers from the weekday schedule to the weekend schedule and vice versa shall be voluntary with the exception that the least senior employee on the occupation and schedule in question being required to accept said transfer when the only alternative of the company Is to lay-off other employees.
Temporary transfers shall he effected for a maximum period of thirty (30) calendar days except for one of the following reasons in which :hs« the given movements will not exceed twelve (12) months.
a) To replace cue or more employees who arc taking their annual vacations;
b) to replace an employee absent as a result at an industrial accident oc illness, oi* non-industrial accident or an employee absent on maternity leave;
c)	to replace a transferred employee, who nt the request of the company is working fur another branch oil CiS. btouka Corporation or of Dominion Textile Inc.. , or lor another company affiliated to or supplying materials or services to the company;
d)	to fill a job because the company has temporarily increased certain labour requirements to meet a special situation.
11 is understood that this paragraph does not loiply that in cases of normal vacancies and normal conditions that, articles 8,06 and 8.07 are not Lo be applied;
ej Lo replace en employee who is receiving special training ok preparation lor a supervisory or technical position, or Lo replace an employer: transferred as a' result of the transfer of another employee who is receiving the said special training or preparation,
f) to replace an employee absent on a special approved leave
The company shall have the right Lo transfer employees on a temporary basis Lo fill temporary job vacancies as described in the preceding paragraph Employees who ore thus transferred will be remunerated according Lo Che provisions of paragraph 13.01*
The company will not use a series of temporary appointments outside the job posting procedure to enable an employee to accumulate experience n order t;o place him in a preferential position in the event of a permanent: vacancy.
8.12
8.13
0.14
Shift work:
a)	If there is more than one shift in operation on any occupation, tho employees will rotate every week.
b)	The departmental seniority of an employee who is currently on the occupation in that department will govern preference of shifts when a vacancy occurs on phat occupation.
Layoffs - One complete shift or leea*. -
Subject to paragraph 8»14 hereunder in the event that it becomes accessory to reduce the number of employees on an occupation In a department f?r one (1) complete shift or less, the employees on the occupation and shift concerned will he laid off in the reverse order of seniority according to., the seniority list established in paragraph 8.19. It In understood that employees so laid off will not have the right to displace other employees on other shifts or other occupation.
Layoffs - More than one (1)'complete oliifn:
.1)
rt.ioyces v k weekend
...■ployees / the ..j.ty according Lo iOfJ:. The employee . replace an employee on an employee with the least -xs department which he had -xly or on an equivalent or lower -<.ument"provided that he As qualified
..«g any of the foregoing/ t»o employee qualified -i be affected by a layoff out of the order: of his + c an aggregate of more than Civri (5) working days for .jay employees or more than three (3) working' dayy for -.id employees or seven (7) day twelve (17) hour shift employees
I -oUiiv a six month period. These periods will run from January 1 to June 30 and July 1 to December 31.	-
8.15	Layoffs - More than five (5) complete ohifts;
In the event that it becomes necessary"to reduce the number of employees on an occupation in a department for move than five (5)rcomplete shifts, for weekday employees or more than three 131 complete shifts for weekend employees or more than three (35 complete shifts for seven (7) clay twelve (12) hour shift employees, the employee on the occupation with the least seniority according to the seniox-ity list established in paragraph 0.19 will be subject to layoff. The employee subject to said layoff firstly has the right to replace a probationary employee on production or ar employee with the least seniority on an occupation which lie has previously fulfilled satisfactorily or on an equivalent, or lowei ranked occupation in his department provided that be is qua 1iJHet to perform the work within a maximum delay of five (5) days fox weekday employees or four (4) days tor employees on weekend shifts, or seven (7) day schedule. Secondly if the employee is unable tc use the above provisions he has the right to replace a probationary employee on production or an employee with the least seniority or an occupation' which lie has previously fulfilled satisfactorily ox an equivalent or lower ranked occupation in another department provided that he is qualified to perform the work within max Amur delay of five (5) days for weekday employees or four (4) days foi employees on weekend shifts or seven (7) day operation.
0.10
This last disposition rtan only be invoked once by an employee concerned on the occasion o£ each layoff: and will only be nppli.ee! to. employees with six {6) months seniority or more.
An employee who !??_ laid oiif, must indicate his intentions in regards to exercising his seniority rights within five (?) working days.
In cases where occupations and/or complete /assignments are permanently eliminated clue to a reduction or machinery or technological change, this last disposition which will be extended •to thirty-iiive (3?) working days, can only be invoked once by an employee concerned on the occasion of each layoff and will be. applied to employees who have at least completed their probationary period.
An employee who transfers to another department; an a result of Article 5.15 will have his/her seniority transferred effective immediately when the transfer occurs. This does not eliminate the provisions of Article 0.1.0 (d).
N.U. It is understood that provisions of Article 0.1.3, *.14, and U7T5 are to be applied within the employees regular schedule before being applied into the other schedule.
Rccalla to work:
Tho^ollowlnj pi^fldure. will apply in recalling employees to work
11 Laid off" being defined as not working on any occupation in the plant.
Temporary Recalls:
a)	Laid off employees will be recalled to work in their order of seniority in their respective departments and on the ponied occupation which they held prior to the layoff.
However, should such employees not be available, then laid off employees will be recalled to work in the order of seniority in their respective departments, provided they previously fulfilled the occupation satisfactorily and provided that they meet the provisions of Article 0.09.
Further, should such employees not be available, then laid off employees will be recalled to work in the order of seniority from other departments provided'they previously fulfilled the occupation satisfactorily, and provided that . they meet the provisions of Article 0,09.
Permanent Recalls:
b)	Laid off employees will be recalled to work In the order of seniority In their respective departments on an .occupation which they have previously fulfilled satisfactorily and provided that they meet the provisions of
A r t i cle 0.09.
However, should such employees not be available than laid off employees will be recalled to work in the order of seniority in their respective departments provided that they meet the provisions of Article fl.09.
Further, should such employees not be available than laid off employees will be recalled to work in the order of seniority from layoffs from other departments provided that they previously fulfilled the occupation satisfactorily and provided that they meet provisions of Article 0.09.
Further, should such employees not be uvailable than laid off employees will be recalled to work in the order of seniority from layoffs from other departments provided they meet the provisions of Article 0.09.
c)	’ However, if an employee is recalled to a new department his seniority will
be transferred effective immediately when the transfer occurs. This does not eliminate the provisions of Article 8.16 - D.
New employer: will, not be hired until all laid off employcco have been so recalled.
However, it is .understood that employee will not be obliged to accept the recall Co a work schedule or department different than the one they worked prior to their layoff except in the case that the only alternative for the company is to hire new employee then it'is understood that Che junior employee involved in, the' above provisions, will be obliged to come hack t< work.
8.17
8.10
8.19
8.20
8.21
d)	It is understood Chntr , when on occupation ok shift is again formed, the original employees on this shift or occupation who may hove been transferred or demoted lo another occupation and while displaced to another job have not been awarded a new occupation ns a result of Article
0.07 will return to the reorganized shift or occupation provided that this happens within a period of one (1) year following-their transfer Or demotion except where such transfer would disrupt normal production flow and/or needo of the requirements of quality.
It is understood that Che company will not uue these delays to allow employees on temporary transfers to aqcuroulate preferential position on the informed shift.
The employee originally on the shift and the occupation uuat bo trnnflfirred back on his shift in the shortest possible delay, After the application of this paragraph any unfilled occupations on the reformed shift are considered "Vacancies" as defined in paragraph-8 .06.
(e) If is understood that when an employee has worked on an occupation for more than (1) one year due t;o a tranqfoi* under Article (UX5.j that occupation shfllj„ become his posted occupation,
Notice of change of address:
It i s the duty of employees to notify the company promptly of any chnngii of address. If an employee fails to Qp.cpis, the company will not he res pons i blc for failure of a notice to react) Bi:qb employees.
Corapcna n ti on :
If it is established that the seniority rights of an employee have not been respected, the sol e a r b i t r at o r will have the right: to determine compensation to he,pa id by the company, if any, up to tho amount of oarningn lost and
► ti.xttf* xl-iM	uhK(I UiN Mm jiJ-iiytfu it UrjucihHUV y.
Seniority list:
-• A list of seniority standings will be posted in each department showing
the names of each employee in that department together with ills length of continuous service with the plant in accordance with paragraph fl.OJ. This list will be revised every six. (6) months. Copies of these posted lists shall be forwarded without delay to the union, and n copy remitted to departmental stewards and other plant union officers. After such posting, each such list shall become final with respect to the employees designated therein, except as to any employee who disputes, under the grievance procedure, the accuracy of his seniority date or the seniority date of any other employee of his department designated therein, within thirty (30) working days after the list is posted. In any event, fluch grievance cannot dispute the accuracy of any previous final list.
b)	The accuracy of the Seniority lists may be r>ub.icH t0 revision o*1 f107 time when such inaccuracy occurs as a result of typographical error.
c)	The date of posting will, he indicated on the seniority list
Occupation not covered by agreement:
Appointments to occupations not covered by this agreement'. ehalJ not be subject to the terms of this Article 0.
Posting for future openings:
Should the company decide to give training courses to its employees, training for future openings will be posted as an occupation without assignment and shift. The posting and selection will bo done according Lo the provisions of Articles 8,07 and 8.09.
Whoi the training is completed the employee will return to his or tier Cov'raei occupation. It is also understood that when such training Is fully co«\pfeted said accumulated experience, is to be taken in consideration in tho event of any future lay offs,
When,the occupation for which the employee was trained becomes open, it will be posted, to allow preference of assignment anij'ihift, only among employees turtentiy on the occupation, then tbe;employee’ thdk waa trained will be re.quinqd , to (take the .opening providedj the. opening occurs within one year of the!bbapietion of the training periodj.and jjtovided the employee has not subsequent, to the training period been ^awarded a Job posting to an occupation khat liaTa Promotion over the future needs posting to which he was trained.
If mote than one employee webe trained '■in advance, seniority shall prevail with, the. least sehiot employee being required to 'accept, the .opening;
arxujub a
PRObUCtlVtt!
During the course of the present agreement all changes concerning tasks, work assignments | piece-work rates ofc changes in the regular duties of sn hourly-paid occupation or changes from an houbiy-rbated occupation to piece-work rated occupation or vice versa and the establishment of new rates therefore shall be submitted by the company to the union.
b)	The plant manager, upon request, at any time if ter the commencement of change referred to in paragraphs 9.02, 9.03 and 9i04 or at any time after a written request for a revision of element time values has been submitted undeb paragraph 9.05, and until Such time as the change is accepted or the written request fbt revision la settled or a decision of the sola arbitrator is rendered, shall grant the union permission to delegate a representative tuobsarvi the effect! of th* said cHangt «nd/orto carry* nut	imM	kit* jitifpoM el verification provided
the said representative does not hidder the,ptopeb functioning of the department t
9*02, If a change contemplated by the company concerning d piece-work occupation has to do Vith the revision of a measured work element or the addition of a measured Work aienant not already established ofc the complete elimination of A measured wotk element, the company irtudt, at least one (1) working week prior to .the application c£ that change, advise the union in writing of the nature of the change.
If tne change applies_ to a measured piece-work occupation and affects the existing standard time value bv twenty Percent ('20X5 or more, a Derlod of adaptation Will be applied,
The period of'adaptation wi11 have a maximum duration of four (4) weeks. During this period4 the employees concerned will work under the new conditions. For wage payment purposes, the difference between the preceding end new standard time vdiues will be applied progressively in four (4) equal increments over the foiit (4) week period of adaptation; Pi the conclusion of the period of adaptation, the full revised standard time values will be in effect tot Wage payment purposes.
When the’.change Has been put into effect by the company, and the union does not agree With such change, a review will be made by a representative of the plant's Industrial engineering department and the representative of the union., Such review will include an inspection of the job specification and Btimmary data Which formed the basis for the change. If such review does not settle-the grievance, the (Inion may refer the said change to the sole arbitrator mentioned below ,for his decision'.
Only the Work elements changed and calculations affected by the change will be subject to review by the sole arbitrator, If no request is made in writing by the union to submit such change to the sole atbitrator within forty-five (45) <Jayd aftet the date It was put into effect, the change shall bs deemed,to, be accepted,
9«03	If a change contemplated by the company concerning a piece-work occupation
has to do with a revision of a measured work element or the addition of a measured work element or the complete elimination of a measured work element because of the installation of different machinery or if an hourly or piece-, work element because of the installation of different machinery or if a non- measured hourly occupation is to be placed by th& company on measured piece- work of if a new occupation is introduced, the company must, at least two (2) working weeks prior to the application of such change, advise the union i n writing of the nature of the change. On the date that such change takes pined it will be considered as undeb a trial period; the conditions of which are defined in paragraph 9,06 and the following paragraphs.
9,04	All changes made by the company concerning piece-work occupations other than
those referred to in paragraphs 9,02 and 9 > 03 are to be settled, if grievances arise, by the following procedure.
Stwp onni
A review of the grievance is to be made by an industrial engineering
representative of the company and a representative of the union.
Such review will include an inspection of the job specification and test data which form the basis for the change. The representative of the union
may also by arrangement with the industrial engineering representative of the company visit the premises where the grievance arose. Notice of the nature of such change will be given Lo the union In writing.
If no grievance is made a* a result of any changes referred to in this paragraph within twenty (20) working days after the change is to be put into effect, the change shall be deemed to be accepted.
Step two
If fchu review provided in ete ©Hi abpyfl dost tvbt	on liMl'trilitt tbju-
ti,on Lo the Rrlevance, Joint Pests will wads by #n industrial engineering representative of the company and a representative of the union to settle the grievance on the change concerned
Any joint tests shall be of the same nature and to the same extent as the tests upon which the change was originally based	The extent of the joint
test called for may be varied by the parries by mutual agreement
If the results of the joint lasts made by the company and the union are such as not io affect the standard tine value by plus or minus 4X or Less, no change is to b« made in the standard time value
If the results of the said joint tests affect the standard time value by greater than plus or minus 4X, the standard time value will be so revised and put into effect
If the results of the said joint tests call for an increase in the standard time value by greater than 4£, retroactivity is to be paid back to the date of the change
If the parties, after having completed the joint testa in this Step two, and after having studied their findings cannot agree on the results of the said joint tests, the union may refer the said change to the sole arbitrator mentioned below
Step three:
The sole arbitrator shall review the change made by the company and shall
make tests of the same nature and to the same extent as the tests upon which the change was originally based.
If the results of the tests made by the sole arbitrator are such as not to affect the standard time value by plus or minus 4?* OK less, no change is to be made in the standard time value.
If the results of the test made by the sole arbitrator affect the standard time value by greater than plus or minus 4%, the standard time value will be so revised and put into effect.
If the results of the tests made by the sole arbitrator call for an increase
in the standard time value by greater than 4X, retroactivity is In be paid hack lo the date of the change.
It is recognized that due to their nature, changes referred to in this paragraph 9*04, may he frequent and continuing revisions of such changes to reflect modifications in conditions may be called for at any time.
9*05	a) If no change is introduced by the company but if In the opinion of the
union a change has occurred of the type covered in paragraph 9-04, in case of an unsettled complaint, a grievance may be submitted for settlement, including arbitration if necessary, in accordance with the terms of paragraph 9t04,
9.06
9.07
9.03
b) If no change U introduced by the company of the type covered in paragraphs 9'.02 and 3 <03 but if in the opinion of the union a time of one or elements of a standard time value requires modification, the ^Having procedure will apply.
1.	When one or more element times of a standard time value which have not been previously submitted to the soi* arbitrator have been in effect and a period of one (1) year has elapsed from the date of the last acceptance by the union, it may request a revision in the said standard time value. If one or more element times of a standard time value have been arbitrated this will not preclude the balance of the element times of the said standard time value not arbitrated, from the application of this paragraph. If one or more element times of a standard time value have been previously submitted to the sole arbitrator, but if in the opinion of the union a change has o<:-cured which had not been covered by the decision of the sole arbitrator (or submitted as a change by the company) and which in their opinion affects the standard time value such contention may be *ub-
by the union to the sole arbitrator for hU decision. In such a $48* the burden of proof falls on the union.
2.	Within forty-five <4J) days from the written	of the union
for a revision of element time values, both parties will meet to attempt to finally settle the request. Failing a mutually satisfactory settlement, the request for revision by the union may be referred to {* cat Ion according to the dispositions of paragraph $ • U< When such a request is made for arbitration, then all the element times for a standard time value except such element times as have been pravtoyaly 4 chi ictizd shall be referred to the sole arbitrator for decision.
If within the said delay of forty-five (45) days, the union does not submit its request for revision to arbitration, the said request for revision will be deemed to have been abandoned.
3.	Following a request for arbitration made by the union, according to
paragraph L if the arbitrator finds a <U C	from the standard
time value in effect of 4# or more, then and only then shall the arbitrator decide that a change in the atandard time value be put into effect in accordance with his observations. If the results of the
made by the arbitrator call for an increase in the standard time value by greater than 4X,	Ivity I » to be paid back to
the date of the union's request for revision.
A. For all requests for revisions which are raised during the first three (3) months lowing the signature of the collective labour agreement, the retroactivity, if any, will be limited to a four (4) week period following the date the request for revisions was submitted.
Following the date that the changes referred to in paragraph 9 <03 above take place, a trial period of twenty (20) working days will follow.
During the trial period twenty (20) working days, the employees concerned will work under the new •topdUloap and be paid according to the new rate and during the said twenty (20) working days, their average hourly earnings will not be lower than their straight time average hourly aacpLnga during the last four weeks while the employees were working on piece-work during the previous six (6) months. In no <:<i;3<5 shall this guarantee of average hourly earnings extend beyond the said twenty (20) working days.
At any time during the trial period the company and the union will meet to review the results obtained during the trial period and will try to agree on the change.
9.09
9.10
9.U
9.12
9.13
9.14
9.15
9.16
9.17
Prior to the end of th« sixth (6th) week following the completion of the trial period, if there is no agreement on the change, the union must notify the company and the sole arbitrator (referred to in paragraph 9.11 hereafter) thereof in writing by reglatered mall and the change will be referred to the sole arbitrator for his decision. The parties may refer the change to the sole arbitrator prior to the completion of the trial period by mutual consent.
If such a notice is not sent during the said trial period or prior to the
end of the sixth (6th) week following the completion of the trial period by the union and if no notice is sent by the company within the same period of ita intention to abandon the proposed change, the said change will be considered as final and accepted by both parties.
In cases where the change is submitted to the sole arbitrator, the sole arbitrator must render his decision within eight (8) additional working weeks from the date ■ change va* submitted to him. In any event the change will rtniln in Core* until tht final decision of th« sole arbitrator ha* b*an
rendered.
The sole arbitrator for the purpose of this article and the duration of this agreement will be an industrial engineer to be chosen by mutual agreement of the parties.
The sols arbitrator must before starting each arbitration make a sworn declaration stating that he had no pecuniary interest in the question, that he
is not personally associated with or interested in a firm or company that manufactures textiles and that he is not by reason of his business affairs or any other circumstances influenced or prejudiced in favour of either employees or employers.
Each of the parties to this agreement will bear its own expenses of arbitration. The fees and expenses of the sole arbitrator will be paid for on the basis of one-half by the company and one-half by the union.
a) All grievances arising out of articles 9 and 10 shall be submitted to the sole arbitrator for decision. In any case, the decision of the sole arbitrator must be within the frame-work of the company's work measurement plan and wage payment methods and further the sole arbitrator shall not have the power to amend, alter or modify the terms of this agreement.
b> For the purposes of articles 9 and 10 of the collective labour agreement, one of the following firms will act as arbitrator as called upon:
Woods Gordon & Co. “ Charron, Bourgetel et Ass. Enrg.
Leathan Sinpson.
The decision of the sole arbitrator will be final and binding on the union and the company and all employees or groups concerned. In so far as wages are concerned the decision will be retroactive to the commencement of the trial period should the sole arbitrator so decide and the amount of retroactive adjustments, if any, shall be determined by the said sole arbitrator.
If at any time during the trial period the company decides to abandon the proposed change, an adjustment of wages must be made in such a manner as to ensure, that for the time during which the trial period has been in force,
average hourly earnings for each employee immediately concerned are equivalent to 100% of the average hourly earnings of that employee during the last four (4) weeks while the employee wag working on piece-work during the previous six (6) months.
When the company advises the union of a change in task under paragraph 9.03, it will give to the union all pertinent information and all necessary explanations concerning such change or new occupation.
9.18
9.19
9.20
9.21
9.22
10.01
Upon request, the company will, at the commencement of a trial period, make
available to a designated representative of the union for examination the
Job apteUWatlon data ttfarrlng to fchv	ot th* tank vktah baa
been placed on such trial period. It is understood and agreed that such job specification data is a confidential company document and is to be returned
to the company within a reasonable delay and is not to be retained beyond the conclusion of such trial period.
Upon request, the company will, at the commencement of a trial period, supply in writing to the union the average hourly earnings of each employee placed under such trial period during the last four (4) weeks while the employee was working on piece-work during the previous six (6) months. The union will also be provided in writing, if they so request, with the average hourly weekly earnings of said employees during such trial period.
Grievances arising from changes in measured or unmeasured hourly-paid occupations or a regular assigned increase in the scheduled volume of work of such an hourly-paid occupation may also be submitted to the sole arbitrator for decision within forty-five (45) days following the occurrence of the circumstances giving rise to the grievance or knowledge of same, as the case may be. In this case, however, the sole arbitrator shall determine whether or not the changed occupation or a regularly assigned increase in the scheduled volume of work of such an hourly-paid occupation requires more than a normal daily work performance. The sole arbitrator shall decide the content of a normal daily work performance and the company will modify the content of the occupation accordingly. A normal daily work performance may be defined as the average amount of work a qualified employee working at normal pace (as defined in article 10) under standard conditions, can produce over a day.
It is Understood that all changes which affect the standard time value will be taken into account in the standard time value for the occupation.
Changes in piece-work rates shall be handled In accordance with the ptovl' elons of this article where applicable.
Article 10
WAGE PAYMENT METHODS
Measured direct occupations!
a)	Measured direct occupations are to be paid on the basis of piece-work rates, expressed in dollars (or cents) per production or machine unit, derived from work measurement and based on "objective hourly rates' appearing on the rate lists for piece-work occupations annexed to this
agreement, except the employees under probationary period. (paragraph 8.02 of the collective agreement).
b)	Measurement is based on the execution of each element of work at a reference pace under usual and normal operation conditions. The reference pace is defined as "walking three miles per hour over smooth level ground without load"
An employee on measured work with a one-hundred percent (100X) work assignment, including allowances for rest and personal needs (varying from 10X to 25* of work time), normally exceeds the reference pace described above by 25H.
c)	The piece-work rates are calculated so that a one-hundred percent (100%) work assignment will give an employee the opportunity to earn the objective rate.
d)	For any delay or time loss beyond his control and for which he is not responsible, the frequency and length of which are not foreseeable (and which have not been taken into account in the machine efficiency calculations), the measured direct employee is paid the objective rate.
He reports these delays and time losses without delay and has them signed and approved by his department foreman or his assistant. Such are, for example, delays resulting from waiting for work, breakdown and 04to-tenarvt* of machinery, power failure, etc..,
e)	The total piece-work earnings will be calculated weekly for each employee on a measured direct occupation, and he i s guaranteed that his average hourly earnings for the week will not be lower than ninety percent
(90%) of the objective rate for HI# oocupafion.
Each employee will be informed of his guaranteed rate.
Each week, a sheet showing the following information for the preceding week will be posted in the department:
•	Occupation and employee's names
•	Objective rate
•	Hours worked
•	Average hourly piece-work earnings
- Total earnings (excluding shift and overtime premiums)
' Percent pay performance (in relation to objective rate)
•	Payments for delays (included in the total earnings amounts)
O S ome occupations previously paid as measured direct occupations may be reclassified by the company as measured indirect occupations, and paid according to provisions, in paragraph 10»01 >
Alao, •ismt occupations pr»viou*ly paid m wtasurad indirect er as unmeasured occupations may be reclassified by the company as measured direct occupations, and paid according to 10,01	(a) above.
In either case, the company will submit to the union the data pertinent to such changes at least two weeks prior to the change, and vlll meet with the union representatives on request to explain the change.
10-02 Measured indirect occupations:
«) Measured indirect occupations are to be paid hourly rates appearing on the rate lists for measured hourly-paid occupations annexed to this agreement, except the employees under probationary period (paragraph 6-02 of the collective agreement), and except obh-trwUe provided in paragraph 10-03 below.
The occupations mentioned in paragraph 10»01 (£) above, reclassified from measured direct to measured indirect, are also to be paid on this same basis.
Some previously unmeasured occupations, which may be judged measurable by the company, are also to be paid on this ***« basis when, they have been measured.
b) The employees on measured indirect occupations are to be given around one-hundred percent (100%) work assignments as described in preceding paragraph 10 »0 i (b)»
10.03 Work aaaiguaeoti
a) Experienced employees on measured occupations, direct or indirect, shall
be given around one- hundred percent (100%) work assignments, as defined in the preceding paragraph 10.01 (b)<
It is understood that, in the case of employees on measured direct occupations and piece-work payment, there la no obligation on 'the company to offer such a work assignment, when the assignment is not available or when the employee is not capable or willing of handling such an assignment.
b) An. individual employee with a physical handicap fftay ^request a work assignment lower "than one _ hundred pflpoenfc (100%) on a measured occupation. The company will consider each such request individually.
If the request is reasonable and the employee is on a measure direct occupation he will, be given,a work assignment between 0% and 10 0*5/ as near' as possible to his request and on his regular occupation if practical, and he will be paid his piece-work earnings. If tne employee is on a .measured indirect occupation, and his regues't is reasonable, he will be given a work assignment between 30$ and. 100% as near as possible to his request and on his regular occupation, and if practical, and he will be paid according to "his assignment.
, n At. certain processes, due to the nuidoex of .productive units, isofa'tionof equipment etc. • # it may be impossible or impractical t© implement © x©du©©<4 workd a salarimen t of an employee on such a process without reducing the volume of production to the next process. Also an employee may not be capable of handling a work assianment between 90% and 100% on a mpacnirpH Hi rprt- nrmnahinri In such cas-es, an occupational transfer for the employee will be considered in line with article 8 ,10	(Permanent transfers) .
Such requests for a reduction in work assignments are limited to one per year for each employee and to one per occupation per month.	'
c)	In the case of an employee on a measured occupation, direct or Indirect, who in the opinion of the company, is not capable or willing of handling a 100% work assignment, the same conditions as in paragraph 10.03 (b) above for a reduced assignment or transfer will apply. However, before proceeding in this manner, the company will advise the union giving the reasons for the contemplated change.
When an employee on a measured direct occupation, who in the opinion of ' the company is continually incapable of producing at the present
guarantee rate of 90%, his guarantee rate will then become 80% of the objective rate of his occupation.
However, before proceeding in this manner. the company will advise the union giving the reasons for such change.
Such case will be individually reviewed every six (6) months following the date of change
10.04 Measured time values!
The measured time value is expressed in minutes and is the time required to
perform an operation at a pace and with allowances €or rest and personal needs as defined in paragraph 10.01 (b) under standard conditions.
The measured time values will not be changed except if a change in the conditions result in an increase or a decrease in the work content, or if In the opinion of both parties an error has been made that would require an adjustment.
Checks are made to make sure that conditions are maintained in conformity with those used to calculate a measured time value.
Information:
10.OS
11.01
11.02
ft copy o£ the iob specification in force will he made available in the department. __ If th<> OOtflpifty makes a change concerning 30 occupation, the job specification will be also made available in the department*
The method of calculation of: wage payment may be checked by the employee personally or by his representative.
ARTICLE II
HOURS OF WORK AND 0 V E R
A)
B)
Five (5) Days Schedule.
The normal work week shall be five IS) days of eight (&) hours continuous operation as per the following:	"
a)	1 st	S hi ft
b)	2nd	Shift
c)	3rd	Shift
23h00 Sunday t o 07h00 I5h0 0 Monday to 23h00 07h0 0 Monday to 15HOO
Friday
Friday
Friday
We ekend Schedule
The normal work week shall be two (2) days of twelve (121 hours continuous operation as per the following:
a)	4th shift:	23h00 Friday to lihOQ Saturday
23h00 Saturday to l).b00 Sunday
b)	5th Shift:	llhOO to 23h00 Saturday and Sunday
C)	Stationary Engineers
Stationary Engineers will work the following:
07h00 to 19h00 - Over the shift cycle X9h00 to 07h00 ** Over the shift cycle
D)	Seven day schedule (four M) shifts)
19h00 to 07h00 - Over the shift cycle 07hOO to 19h00 - Over the ahift cycle
The working hours may be modified in order to comply with special requirements. It is understood that duripR the term of this agreement any changes under this paragraph win he made only after agreement with the-union.	w	‘
It is understood however, that nothing in this agreement shall be construed or inferpreted t o be a guarantee by the company of a specified number or hours of work "or shifts per day. car clays of weekend as well as providing annual,. weekly, or dally guarantee wages.	"	'	"
This clause will not preclude the company from having employees work longer voluntary houts than specified above, provided that the overtime provision is observed.
a)	Work performed on Saturday and Sunday ’sha1i be paid at a rate of time and one half the employee's regular rate.
b)	&BPloye<2s working under the weekend shift operatioh schedule will get a premium of fifty percent (50%) Lor Saturday and Sunday.
c)	If the company decides to work on a seven day operation, the Saturday and Sunday premium will be at 50% for all employees.
d)	All employees covered by the terms of this agreement shall, be entitled for all hours worked in excess of uhe regular daily hours specified in Article XI to a premium of 50% of either their regular rate or their average hourly piece-work or wage incentive plan earnings, as the case may be. It is understood that no pyramiding of pi’emiuma will apply.
ej Overtime for the Saturday or Sunday is fifty percent (SOX) premium over and above weekend premiums after 8 or 12 hours as the case tce^- be.
Any weekend shifts employees who work in excess of eight (8) continuous J hours on any regular day Monday to Friday will be paid time and one half ' for the hours above eight (8). For any weekend shifts employees who work more then (40) hours per week including their regular weekend hours will be paid time and one half for hours worked above forty (AO) hours. It is understood that hours for which n premium of fifty (50%) percent is paid for all hours above regular doily hours will not be included as part of the above forty (40) hours total.
Except employees working under seven day operation schedule or weekend operation schedule it is understood that Sunday work will be voluntary.
T5
JLJL.UZ
Emplo eea working in tho Weave Room and Greigc Inspection will operate on a seven (7) day, four (4) 'shift schedule, working twelve (12) hour shifts.	*
The employee's regular rate will apply for all regular daily hours worked.	"	~	"	‘
There will be a £i£t percent (50%) premium paid for all hours worked in excess of regular daily hours.
, There will also be a fifty PSffcent (50%) premium paid for hours worked above tne forty- four (44) per week. It is understood
that hours for which a premiumof fifty percent (50%) is paid for all hours above reaular daily hours wil not be included as part of the above forty- four (44) "hours total.
A l l employees on th i,s schedule prior to January 5, 1992 in one of these working areas will receive a, severity - £ ive cents (75) addon for all hours worked. This'Wlll remain in ^ effect,for ail present employees who remain ,on this schedule in one of these departments.
. New employees hired after January fifth (5 th), 1992/ will not receive this seventy- five cents (75) add-on.
Overtime Hours
Overtime hours will be voluntary .on the (7) day schedule. (Subject to re-negotiation if problems arise.)	*
11.03 a) Uotk performed by Stationary Engineers and Watch Keepers on Saturday and Sunday shall be paid at a rate of time and'one half the employee's regular ni:raighC time rate of pay*
b) Overtime performed on Saturday and Sunday will be at fifty percent
(SOX)pretnium over Saturday premium and fifty percent (50%) over Sunday premium ftftar 0 or 12 hours, os the caaft may be
11.0A Hours of work fOf which an employee receives premium compensation under this article or Schedule It) plant holidays shall not be counted as port of the normal work week and also i$ hours Eor which a premium of time nnd one-half or double time is paid.
11.05 Overtime Work:
a)	Any employee may refuse- to work overtime provided he has found a suitable replacement who is qualified to perform the work and notifies bis department supervisor in advance.
b)	Between May 15th and Lsbout Day; any work performed after 23WOO Friday, shall be voluntary, except for Stationary engineers. Watch keepers and weekend shift employees. The employees who avail themselves of the provisions of this paragraph will advise their supervisor forty-eight (40) hours in advance. ^1® forty-eight (AC) hour notice will only be required if the company has advised the employees previously that it intends to operate on week-end work. otherwise the said notice will not be required.
h permanent list indicating the names of employees willing to parfoCos work during the voluntary week-end period will be kept in each department by management. Such list will indicate the preference of the employees An employee may have his name inscribed or deleted Croro said list the last Trldoy of every month.
Other than the cases provided for above the reasons that would excuse an employee Scots working during regular hours would excuse him (coin working overtime.
(C)No employee shall be fgquil'ed to work in excess of eight (0) hour 'overtime in one (1)
<d) OVERTIME
Mandatory Period
Saturdays	- scheduled by shift and occupation by seniority.
Sundays	• First:	offer by occupation and seniority.
'	- Second: offer by qualified and seniority,
Voluntary Period
Saturday and Sunday - First:	offer by occupation a„d
_	- Second: offer by qualified and
(e) .Any work Required by management other than Stationary Engineers and Watch,Keepers on Schedule II Plant Holidays shall be on a voluntary basis by seniority provided they are qualified to do the work.
seniority
seniority,
ARTICLE 12
REPORTING FOR WORK
’ If an employee reports €or work at the regularly scheduled time for his
ihiffc, he shall be entitled Lo a minimum of four (4) hours work or pay at his regular hourly rate, unless previously notified by the company not to
report	• This provision shall not apply when lack of work ts due to
conditions beyond the control of the company, or when the employee is returning to work following an absence.
12.02
When it is. feasible, tlie(company will endeavour to give eight (0) hours notice if work io not available on an employee's scheduled shift.
ARTICLE 13
WAGE UATG3 AND CALL-IN PAY
13.01
(a) The rates of_ wages an outlined in Schedule I attached hereto shall be effective for the duration of this agreement.
b) Probationary employee:
After alxty (60) working days the ,employee will receive the contractual rate of pay for the occupation performed by him.
The Maintenance Department probat ionary employees are excluded from this agreement.
At the discretion of the department supervisor, if the employee becomes qualified before the probationary period enas, tine employee will be paid at the contractual rate of tfhe occupation.
13.02
When an employee is directed by the company to woi')<t in another job classification for which he/she is recognized a5 being qualified*,
and performs at ninety (90%) percent or .better, he/ahe , shall receive their former average unless the earnings on the new job arc higher:	in which case the earnings, of the new job will be paid.
An employee performing Less than ninety (90%) percent on the.new job shall receivehia/h^r guaranteed ninety (90%) percent earnings foir that job. However if the employeo is not gualifiedon the job to which he/she hag been directed, he/ehe will be paid .their average rate of earnings unless the rats for the new job i g higher, in which case the rate for the new job will be paid.	'
* Generally 'speaking, gualified means that the employee has
at least one
Whenever an employee is subject,to layoff and he is using his right to displace, he will then receive the rate for such other job.
Refer to Schedule I (E) ,
13,03 An employee called at home outside his regularly scheduled hours of work shall be paid not less than the equivalent for four (A) hours' pay at straight time rate, provided that the employee accepts such work ns is available in order to qualify Cor such pay. It is understood fchet if such a call occurs between 231)00 and 07H0O said employee will receive time and one half his regular rate for these four (A) hours.
11 is understood that such employee must have left the property of the company and has completed his regular hours of work scheduled that 6omc day.
In the case where an employee is called to work before his regular shift for less than four (A) hours, he will be paid the number of hours worked ot the rate provided in this article if applies.
In the tssa where an employee is called to work before his regular shift and if for teasons such is lack of materials or abnormal working conditions, that employee is sent back home before the end of his regular shift, all hours worked before his regular daily hours will be paid at the rate of time and a half his regular pay.
13.04
13.05
14.01
15.01
16.01
It is also understood that hours for which an employee receives I premium
under the provision of this article 13.03 will not be counted for the purpose of calculating the overtime premium provided in article 11,
An employee who is required for jury service will be paid, foe each day of such service, the difference between either his regular hourly rate or his average hourly earnings if he is working under the wage incentive plan for the number of hours he normally works on his regular shift, and the payment he received for jury service. The employee will present proof of service and the amount of pay received Of to be received.
The calculations of his pay will be figured on the bsais of the employee's pay for a complete normal period of work for the shift to which he belongs during the Last week in w(\ich he did such work before he was called to jury service. The provisions enumerated above will also apply to witness pay in cases where it may not otherwise be retrievable.
This paragraph 13.04 will not apply where an employee voluntarily seeks jury service.
Combined occupation:
An employee v\ho is assigned to work on more than one occupation by: the Company, recognized as a regular assignment, is regarded as working on a combined occupation^, such3 employee will receive for the entire shift the highest hourly contractual rate provided they have worked at least one hour on that occupation for the five (5) days schedule or ninety (90) minutes on the weekend or seven (7) day twelve (12) hour schedule.
ARTICLE 14
S1IIFT PREMIUM
a)	The company agrees to pay t shift premium of l?t for the third or night shift for hours worked between 2 3hOO and 07h00 provided that such premium will not form port of the employee's regular hourly rate €or the purpose of incentive. overtime or any other premium or bonus compensation.
b)	The company agrees to pay a shift premium of 12£ per hour for the second or afternoon shift for hourf worked between i$h00 and 23h00 provided that such premium will not form part of the employee's regular hourly rate for the purposes of incentive, overtime or any other premium Of bonus compensation.
ARTICLE 15
PLANT HOLIDAYS, VACATION WITH PAV
________AND INSURANCE PLAN________
The plant holidays, vacations with pay and insurance plana applicable under cht-5 agreement are set Forth in Schedule II, III, and IV hereof'
ARTICLE 16
BULLETIN BOARD
a) The company agrees to provide two (2) notice boards located as at
present, upon which the union may post notices, subject to the following conditions:
(1) any such notice shall have received the written approval of the company prior to posting;
(il) no change shall be node in any such notice either by the company or by the union after it has received the approval of the company;
(ill) notices shall be posted only on notice boards provided by the company for the use of the union;
(iv) the subject matter of any notices posted shall be restricted to notices of meetings, of the results of* elections pertaining to the mill, or of recreational or social activities.
b) The union agrees that it will not distribute or post any pamphlets, advertising or political matter, cards, notices or any other kind of literature, within the mill or its appurtenances, except as provided In this agreement.
17.01
ARTICLE 17 BEREAVEMENT
A) Weekday employees
a) In the event of a death in the employee's immediate family (wife, husband, mother, father sister,, brother, son, daughter, mother-in-law, father- in- law, sister-in-law,'and brother-in-law, grandparents common-low spouse, daughter-in-law, son- in- law) the company agrees to grant a paid leave of absence of three (3) ,days.
It ts understood that ij one of the days referred to above falls on a paid holiday or during the employee's annual vacation or plant shutdown, this or those days will be excluded.
The company wilt grant a one (1) day leave of absence, the day of funeral, in the event of death of a grandchild' or the spouse of a brother-in-law or sister- in- law. An additional maximum of two (2) days of leave of absence without pay will be granted if SO requested by the employee concerned.
. b) An individual will be allowed three (3) working days off because of death in the immediate family (as defined), the third day being the dav of the funeral, Saturdays and Sundays do not require payment (under normal circumstances) and
reduce the required working days being off to one
Abnormal circumstances that may require an additional day off and the payment for (in instances that involves Saturday and/or- Sunday) would be in the case of an individual having to fake additional time under written instructions from a doctor, or in the case of legal matters, that cannot be postponed, a lawyer.
An individual having been scheduled for work on a Saturday or Sunday and who is restricted from doing so because of a death in the immediate family, would be paid for suct\"lost time at his/her regular rate.
c<i For the Stationary Engineers a day shall constitute of 12 hours
D) Weekend employees
An employee shall be perkiltbed time off from work for the outuubq ; of r&t\endind the funeral of his w'ife, husband, mother, father/. sister, brother, don or dailgnteb# daughter-.in- law, son-m* Ivk# , common-ldw spouse, grandparents, up to a maximum of two (21
The company will grant a one, (1) day icave-of absence, in the event of at.deatn of a <grandch'ild or the spouse of a brother-in-law or sister- in- law
When.any of such days falls on an,employeeIs scheduled working day, he shall be paid .bereavement allowance based on twelve 112) hours €or each .day at tiVne and One half at the wage rate the hourly empioye'e’a classificattoh ‘‘as' set 'out in tho schedule attached to the collective labour aalreemeht, or if on piecework for t he ■ chrL*eht “‘^ek-lod set. out irt th6 (schedule attached to the colleative labour. Agreemeht*	'
The company nust be supplied with necessary information £>erfcainlnci. to the reasons for such, leave of absence.
17.01
G) Seven (7) day, twelve (12) hour shift employees
An employee shall be permitted time off from work for the purpose of attending <bh@ funeral of his wife husband mother, father, sis ter, brother, son or daughter, daughter-, m-1 aw'on - J n-law, common-1 aw.spouse, grandparent*, up to n maximum of two (2) days. An additional one (.1) day leave of absence will be granted without pay if so reguested by the employee concerned. '
, The company will grant a one ([) day paid leave of absence, in the event of "de'ath of a grandchild or the spouse of a brother-in-law or sister-in-law. '
When atw of such days falls on an employee's scheduled working day, he shall be paid bereavement allowance based on twelve (12) hours _ for each day at the wacje rate for the hourly employee's classification as set out m the schedule attached to the collective labour agreement, or if on piecework for the current period set out in the schedule attached to the collective labour agreement,
The company must be supplied with necessary information pertaining to the reasons for such leave of absence.
D) In the event cf a death im the employee 1 s immediatefami iy (ns defined) during winker, and a de 1 ayecf burial to the spring inonl.ha, am employee will be granted an additional paid day of leave for the
burial, it so reguested by the employee.
18.01
18.02
18.03
18.04
18 .OS
18.06
19.01
19.02
ARTICLE 16
UNION SECURITY
The company agrees to deduct from the wages of an employee, upon receipt of a signed authorization card in the form set-out in ScheduleV of this agreement, the union dues as authorized by the union.
Any changes shall be given in writing to the company seven (?) days prior to effective date of 44 M deduction.
From the wages received by an employee, the union dues will be deducted weekly on a uniform basis, but the company will remit monthly the amount deducted to the Ontario office of the United Textile Woeof America, whose receipt therefore shall be considered as a discharge to the company of all liability for the amount so deducted. The union will keep the company harmless of any claims by an employee.
In the event that for a period as mentioned in paragraph 18.02 an employee does not earn wages, the company will not deduct union dues. The obligation will be to recommence deductions from the first pay period following the employee's return to work.
a condition of employment all employees must sign an authorization form of an equal amount of union dues as set forth i n Schedule V of this agreement.
The remittance to the union of the deductions made under this article will be accompanied by a statement showing the names of each employee from whose pay such deduction has been made.
Depending upon the company's capability, once per week, for the previous week, the company will remit to the president of local union a list indicating the following informations pertaining to its new, laid off and recalls employees.
1.	Name
2• Department
1> Occupation
4.	Date of employment
5	> Date of layoff and seniority
6	■ Date of recalled (if applicable).
ARTICLE
1&A7& OF ADS&HCB
The company may grant leave of absence to any employee for legitimate personal reasons. Any leave of absence granted by the company shall be limited to three (3) months. Subject to the provisions of this agreement, the employee may return to his regular job when the leave of absence expires if he is still qualified and has the necessary seniority.
An employee on the seniority list will be granted permission for absence while a recognized physician continues to certify him as unfit by reason of sickness or injury for any work offered by the company: provided the duration of such absence does not exceed the length of time represented by the employee's seniority or nine (9) months whichever is the lesser. However, by mutual agreement, permission for absence mi y be extended beyond nine (0) months on a month by month basis. Subject to the provisions of this agreement, the employee may return to his regular job when the leave ol: absence expires if he is still qualified and has the necessary saniorl. ty.
19,03	An employee who has completed the required probationary period shall, on reguest., be' granted pregnancy leave, subject to the following terms.-and ’conditions!	'
a)	The employe^' anal.JL no'blSylthe Pe senna] Manager,not later than the third mdnbn 6c pregnancy and submit a certificate from a recognized physician?
b)	the employee«shal1 concinue to work aa long as her physical
condition perAj.;ta,t but-hei leave	§hall ommen@i
as soon as ah$ .i£.vunable to work regularly and perform ner regular job-iaabi-sfactor i ly}
c)	the employee .quaid-',i'£ possiblet*; give the company ,at least two-(2) weekavhotice-cS intention before commencing leave;
4) within three C3) montlis after aon£ inomonb, the employee shall notify the company,, of the date she will be available to return to wor}<» which'.date shall be rot; more than six (6) months after confinement and the employee shall apply for work within such six (6) month period; provided, however, that in case of premature termination of the pregnane the employee shall apply for work as soon as she is physically able;
o) the employee shall confirm the exact date on which she will be ava\lable to return to work by notifying the company accordingly not more than two (2) weeks ana not less than one (1) week before such date; f>	,	, ,	,
following proper notification to the	ttee ^ployeo
shall be returned to^job in her last job classification if she is still qualified and has t,the necessary seniority,
If not qualified under the foregoing provision, then she wild t be ••granted another job, provided she is willing and quailflea to perform the work and has the necessary seniority.
19,01	Maternity and Parental Benefits
An employee on the seniority list.will ,be granted permission for absence tor maternity ox parental benefits as per legislation.
U0$ The company will grant leave of absence to attend official business ’ authorized by < the International , to not more than six (6) employees subject to trie following conditions:
a) that at least one week' s written notice be giv.en to the company designating the persons for whom such leave is desired;
h) the nuido^r of employees from any one do pa rtmant to be mutually agreed, provided at least one may be elected from a department;
19.06	if an empio ce overstays his leave of absence, he is presumed to have severe?; his employment with, the company, unless he c&ft give a satisfactory explanation for nis inability to return to work on
the expiry date ot his leave of absence.
19.07	LEAVE or ABSENCE PROCEDURE
These are requests above regular vacat ion entitlements.
Requests must be made at least one d) month *n advance.
Replies must be given within seven (7) days, Requests must be made on the following form fully filled out.
OUR RESPONSE MUST BE IN WRITING BY WAY OF THIS FORM. FULLY COMPLETED.
LEAVE OF ABSENCE REQUEST
NAME :__________________________ DATE :________________
ABSENCE REQUIRED FROM:________________TOj______________
INCLUSIVE.
RETURNED TO WORK ON:________________________________
PERMISSION IS	(GRANTED)	OR	(DENIED)
SIGNATURE:
vsmmm
IS0PEHVI3SU)
DATE :
ARTICLE 20
NOTICES
20.01	Except where Otherwise provided, any notice which either party desires to give'to-the .other shall be given by prepaid registered mail as follows:
[11 Tc the Company
.Personnel, Manager 1C id. BrooltS/Caldwell
P.,0, pox.. 310 Iroquois, Ontario K0E-.1K0 '
(II) To the Union
United Textile Workers of America Local 478
350 SC. Paul Street St I Catherines, Ontario L2B-3N2'.
(Ill) To the Local:
Copy of the above eorrespondeneewill also be given by hand to the Local Union President when possible and if not, it will be addressed as ollows:
Local Union President Local 470 p . O. Bo:-: 6 9 Iroquois, Ontario K0 E-1K0
Any notice given as aforesaid shall be deemed given and received as of the business day following the data of mailing.
ARTICLE li
RENEWAL, AMENDMENT, AND TERMINATION
This agreement shall continue irj effect until the ,30th day of September. 1995. and shall continue automatically’CtldTUS beer for
annual tdrlodu Uf one year each, unless either party notifies the other in writing during the period of one hundred, and twenty (120) days prior to the expiration date that it desires to amend or terminate this agreement.
Negotiations ,shall begin within, fifteen (15) days following notification for amendment of th.is agreement, .prior to the current expiration date it shall expire, unless it is extended for a specific period lop mutual agreement of the parties.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF each of the parties hereto has caused this agreement to be signed by its duly authorised representatives this loth day of February, 1994•
For the Union:
For tho Company:
J . LliHAX	D. BAUKLEI
ENGLISH------ "'it'.' H0U0S0N
urmra-----------
W. JONES-------------------It. 51 AWT
W. BMMSV!----------
L				!	N	1|	1					r	
Schedule 1, Rates of Pay				11 LISILDF. OCCUPATIONS &			
				1 CONTF	iactuai ratfs			
		EFFECTIVE DATE	.	Sept 27,1992	Sept 26,1993	Sept 25,1994	
.e									
									
									10.28
									10.46
								,	10.41
								, -49 ...	
								11.62	10.46
								11t 77	10.60
								11.94	10.74
							.9	11.49	10.34
							J.19	11.49	10.34
							10.23	11.54	10.39
							1017	11.47	10.32
						r	10.09	11.38	10.24
						,.32	10.19	11.49	10.34
						11.65	10.49	11.82	10.64
						11.72	10.55	11.90	10.71
						11.31		11.48	
						11.06		11.23	
						11.13		11.30	
						11.81		11.99	
						13.03		13.23	
				JO		10.95		11.12	
				.3.12		13.32		13.52	
				10.40		10.62		10.78	
				10.09		10.24		10.39	
									
			DPWP	10.9S	9.86	11.11	10.00	11.20	10.15
			MDHP	11.32		11.49		11.66	
			UHP	10.98		11.12		11.29	
			UHP	10.51		10.67		10.83	
			UHP	10.54		10.70		10.86	
			UHP	10.57		10.73		10.89	
			UHP	10.57		10.73		10.89	
			UHP	10.47		10.63		10.79	
			UHP	10.46		10.62		10.78	
		,ice Tagging	UHP	10.28		10,43		10.59	
		A	UHP	10.75		10.91		11.07	
			UHP	11.08		11.25		11.42	
		..nployee	UHP	10.28		10.43		10.59	
									
		.ppr.Pattern Designer	UHP	11.54		11.71		11.89	
		Laboratory Testor	UHP	10.93		11,09		11.26	
	J	Mill Tester	UHP	10.89		11.05		11.22	
	06	Qual.Control Re-insp.	UHP	11.14		11.31		11.48	
	06	Sanitation Janitor	UHP	10.31		10.46		10.62	
	03	Shop Helper	UHP	10.78		10.94		11.10	
d_	06	Supply Room Hand	UHP	10.69		10.85 fl		11.01	
C.S.BROOKS CORP/CALDWELL					n i				
Schedule 1, Rales ol Pay					LIST OF OCCUPATIONS &				
					CONTRACTUAL RATES			'* .	
		EFFECTIVE DATE:		Soot 27.1992		Sept 26,1993		Sept 25,1994	
			Classlfi-	Ob|.	90%	Obj.	■90%	Ob|.	90%
DEPT		OCCUPATION	cation	Rate	Guar. Rate	Rate	Guar. Rate	Rate	Guar. Rate
i									
YARN PREPARATION:									
	01	Size Mixer Helper	DPWP	11.43	10.29	11.60	10.44	11.77	10.60
	01	Slasher Tender	DPWP	11.76	10.58	11.94	10.75	12.12	10.91
	01	Warper Creeler	DPWP	11.13	10.02	11.30	10.17	11.47	10.32
	01	Warper Tender	DPWP	11.52	10.37	11.69	10.52	11.87	10.60
	01	Winder fender	MDHP	11.20		11.37		11.54	
	01	Fixer	MHPJ	12.82		13.01		13.21	
	01	Yam Supplier	MHP	10.93		11.09		11.26	
WEAVE ROOM:									
	02	Fixer	DPWP	12.39	11.69	13.16	11.86	13.38	12.04
	02	Fixer Jacquard	DPWP	13.10	11.79	13.30	11.97	13.50	12.15
	02	Tying Machine Oper.	DPWP	11.93	10.74	12.11	10.90	12.29	11.06
	02	Weaver Jacquard	DPWP	11.99	10.79	12.17	10.95	12.35	11.12
	02	Weaver Regular	DPWP	11.87	10.68	12.05	10.85	12.23	11.01
	02	Beam Handler	MHP	11.20		11.37		11.54	
	02	Cloth Coffer	MHP	11.19		11.36		11.53	
	02	Fixer UnifHI&U star	MHP	12.83		13.02		13.22	
	02	Loom Cleener	MHP	10.80		11.02		11.19	
	02	Oiler	MHP	11.14		11.31		11.48	
	02	Pattern Oilier	MHP	11.84		12.02		12.20	
	02	Smash Hand	MHP	11.40		11.57		11.74	
	02	Assignment Checker	UHP	10.45		10.61		10.77	
DYE & BLEACH:									
	03	Ass'tnt Cold Pad Tender	MDHP	11.66		11.83		12.01	
	03	Bleach Range Tender	MDHP	n.09		11.07		12.05	
—	HI!”	Dye Bock Tender		“If??"'				»			»	
									
	03	Loop Dryer Tender	MDHP	11.52		11.69		11.07	
	03	Scutcher Tender	MDHP	11.55		11.72		11.90	
	03	Unroller Tender	MOHP	11.52		11.69		11.07	
	03	Finishing Utility	MHP	11.52		11.69		11.87	
	03	Grelga Utility	MHP	11.13		11.30		11.47	
C.S.BROOKS CORP/CALDWELL						n i				
Schedule 1, Rates of Pay					LIST OF OCCUPATIONS &				
					CONTRACTUAL RATES				
		EFFECTIVE DATE:		Sepl 27,1992		Sept 26,1993		Sept 25.1994	
			Class!!!*	Obj.	90%	Obj.	90%	Obj.	90%
DEPT		OCCUPATION		cation	Rata	Guar. Rata	Rale	Guar, Rate	Rale	Guar, Rale
" r									
TRADESMEN:									
	07	General Maintenance (ticketed)	Trade’s	14.78		15.00		15.23	
	07	General Maintenance	Trade's	13.77		13.98		14.19	
	07	Electrical Techn, grade 1	Trade’s	15.71		15.95		16.19	
	07	Electrical Techn, grade 2	Trade's	14.Q7		15.09		15.32	
	07	Instrum, Tech, grade 1	Trade's	15.71		15.95		15.19	
	07	tristrum. Tech, grade 2	Trade's	14.87		15.09		15.32	
	07	Technician Apprentice, 2nd year	Trade's	14.62		14.84		15.06	
	07	Technician Apprentice. Islyear	Trade's	14.36		14.58		14.80	
	07	Stationary Eng. Chief	Trade's	16.79		17.04		17.30	
	07	Stationary Eng.. 2nd Class	Trade's	15.25		15.48		15.71	
	07	Stationary Eng.. 3rd Class	Trade’s	15.13		15.36		15.59	
									
/PROBATIONARY EMPLOYEES:									
									
		Up to 20 Days	-	7.73		7.85		7,97	
		21 to 40 Days	-	7.86		7.98		8.10	
		41 to 60 Days	-	7.95		8.08		8.20	
									
OCCUPATION CLASSIFICATIONS:									
									
		Direct Piece Work Paid	DPWP						
		Measured Direct Hourly Paid	MDHP						
		Measured Hourty Paid	MHP						
		Unmeasured Hourly Paid	UHP						
		Tradesman	Trade's						
		i						■ , 1	U
Any holiday or .holidays occuring during an employee's vacation, will entitle the employee to add additional corresponding day(s) to their vacation, xlie selection of the said day(s) will be allowed after mutual sgrocment with his supervisor.
c) If an -employee-has ndt worked ;the declared ,working days previous to and
following die ,statutory holiday or statutory holidays mid that more than ont (t)* statutory ‘holiday Call's on consecutive days, the company may not penalize the employee for-more than.one (1) statutory holiday.
In the event Canada Day occurs on a Tuesday, it shall, be observed on the previous Monday, and where-Canada Day occurs on a Wedneaefiy Qt Thursday, it shall be observed on the following Friday.
if a plant holiday occurs on a Saturday or Sunday, the Company will post the date of observance of such holiday which will be on a Friday or Monday.
4.	An employee who is required to work on a plant holiday will1 be paid lor work pcrfotmsd on such day at one mid one-half Lime his regular straight time rate of pay in addition to his holiday pay.
5. Stationary Engineers and Watch Keepers shall receive pay lor the plant holidays set out in this Schedule in accordance with the terms hereof nnd when requited Lo work on a plant holiday will be paid Cor work performed on such day ot Lime and one-half time his regular rate of pay.
6.	Pay day will continue to be on Thyrsday at IdhOO except when a statutory holiday falls on a Thursday, in which case the pay will he distributed on the following working, day at 16h00.
?. Any employee who is required lo work on Christmas Day or New Year's Day shall bu compensated for each hour so worked at double time tbcU straight tine regular rate in addition to the holiday pay
SCUBDtJLlS It I VACATIONS WITH
1. The company ngnsisn to grant two (2) waaks continuous vacation to each employee in its service at the commencement of such vacation. The company, may close all or .part of the plant for vacation purposes during the summer months and wxll endeavour to have the vacation shutdown during the last two (2) weeks of duly, if business conditions permit.	'
Any employee-with five (5) years' continuous service with the company is entitled .to, a., third week of vacation.
Any employee with fifteen 115) years continuous service with the company, ia entitled to a- fourth week of vacation.
It is understood that..for employees working on weekend shifts, u week vacation shall consist of' Saturday and Sunday off:.
In the selection, of arv employee's dates of vacation, an crop Joyce having moi'isi seniority will have preference over .-m employee with less seniority.
Employees in departments which do not have ar» annual shutdown period will' indicat« ;bef ore Apri l 15th their p'reCernois as to tho dates of their . first .■ and second weeks of vacation.
Employees entitled Lo a third (3) or fourth Ml week vacation will indicate before April 15th, their preference as to the dates Of the period of tho‘ .third-and fourth.weeks vacation
The third 13) arid, fourth (4) weeks vacation will bo scheduled a*.far as possible lin. advance to coincide with-the wishes expressed by.the employees taking' into consideration the needs of production.
The company agrees a.u. employees can have their vacation pays received, during the ir.-elected vacation weeks..
2,	Total amount of vacation pay and time of each employee shall be based on his length, of continuous service with the company and shall exclude previous vacation, pay. The above-men,.ionea shall be computed in accordance with tne table set forth below.
Percentage of pay shall be for the twelve (12) months preceding the last full pay period of June.
The number of years of continuous service used in reckoning the amount of weeks for which an employee is entitled to. take under the terms of this article wilt be computed as of the 30th of June prior to the "Aimiral Vacation Weeks".
■TA3LE OF VACATION TIM* AND PAYMENT
The following vacation time and table will apply:
Vf»ar* B Service
on
Entitlement ___(weeks)__
Payr ont % Effective 09-27-1992
0-1
2
2
3
3
4 4 4
4,0
4.5
6.5 0.5
9.5
10.5
11.5
Except for maintenance employees any work performed during the annual shutdown will be offered' ,on a voluntary basis, and by seniority provided they are qualified to do the work.	'
The company will confirm throposting the date of the plant shutdown (annual vacation) by April lstt, The employees concerned will in such case have up to. Aon 1 15th to select the date of their first and second week vacation.
3.	Scheduling of vacations will continue to be done as per our Collective Labour Agreement - Schedule ITT.
For employees who do not schedule their additional vacation weeks as above, the following will apply.
Employees will have until February lot to request their vacation dates. This will be awarded on a.first come basis and not by seniority. The weeks of vacation will be scheduled as far as possible in advance to coincide with the wishes expressed by the employees, taking into consideration the. needs >£ production.	“
my vacation entj.11 ernent • not. requeated prior to the Fe).*ruary ,st deadline will be lost if it cannot be agreed to and taken >efore June 1st of the vacation year.
4,	One week’s vacation (defined)
One week of vacation will consist of a week from Sunday's sliiCL to and include Saturday's shift.
* Important Note: Generallyspeaking, q uadi lied means that the employee has previously
satisfactorily fulfilled and has worked at least one time on that occupation in the
last six (6) months.
Whener an employee is subject to layoff and he is using his right todis pfaco, he JI will then receive h.e rate for such other rob. 11__.._________
SCHEDULE ll
PLANT HOLIDAYS
X* a) Except for Stationary Engineers and Watch Keepers no work will be performed on_ the following days which will be recognized as paid holidays:
New Year’s Day	(Jan.i)	Civic Holiday
January 2nd	Thanksgiving Day
Good Friday	Labour Day
Victoria Day	Christmas Day
Canada Day*	Boxing Day
An eleven-th, twelfth and thirteenth holiday are granted as agreed below;
Following is the schedule of holidays to be observed at the 1994-95 Christaas period. During this period; two floaters are established to occur as belowi
Sun. Mon.
1994	26
bee.	Box.
Jan. X	2
Jan .2
Tue.	Wed ■	Thu.,
27	20	29
X-Mas	Fl,	FI.
Fri. Sat,
30	31
Jan, X
b)	Any work reguired by management other than Stationary Engineers and Watch Keepers on' these holidays shall be on
a voluntary basis by seniority provided they are qualified
to do the work.
c)	Seven (7) day twelve (12) hour shift 0 weekend schedule
Employees will be reguired to work their regular shift when one.oi these holidays occur. Employees who work on a plant holiday will be paid time and one half (X 1/2) for hours worked.
Both employees who are scheduled to work and employees who are not scheduled to work on one p£ these holidays will be paid eight <8) hours pay for holiday.
To be eligible tor the holiday pay, the employee must meet the qualifications of Schedule I; 3 a).
2.	Plant holiday gay will be computed on the basis of eight
(6)houra at the employee's regular hourly rate of pay in the case of hourly workers, and on the basis of eight ,(3) hours at the	oao straight time,average hourly earnings
for the pay. period in which the holiday occurs in the case of piece-workers.
3.	a) In order to qualify for plant holiday pay, the employee must
work his full schedmilesd shifts on each of the work days immediately following the plant holiday concerned, except in the case where the employee was prevented from working, these declared working dav3 because of duly certified, illness, or deaUdh imnia immediate famll .husband, wife, child .father, mother, brother, sist&r, %ather-in-law, mothe;-in-law, brother-in-law,, sister-in-law. grandparents, common-law spouse, daughter-in-law, son-in-law) or if the employee had permission from the companytp.be excused from work on these two days, provided he has effectively worked during one of the four weeks preceding the week inwnich the holiday occurs , I,f an employee has not worked the declared working days previous to ana following the holiday for , reasons of being laid off, he will be entitled to the paid holiday, prgvided he has , effectively worked during the week preceding the week in which the holiday occurs.
SCHEDULE IV INSURANCE PLAN
The company agrees to insure the employees in accordance w.it:li Ihe general plan that has been discussed and agreed'to with the Union. This plan will lie administered by recognized insurance companies and/or associations. Each employee will receive a copy of the plan. '
The following schedule of j.hsurance will be provided
1.	(i)
<ii>
(ill. 1
< iv)
Life insurance:	,$20,000.00
A.D. f* D. :	$20,000.00
Dependent Life:	$5,000.00 spouse
$3,000.On child
Short Term Disability:	60% of earnings up to U,T.C.
maximum- minimum $175.00 pot: week.
<v)
Benefits to commence first day of accident, first day of hospitalization or E.ifth day of sickness or pregnancy and will be allowed for two (2) weeks, followed by fifteen (.15) weeks of U.l'.C. and ,j maximum of nine < 9) more weeks S.T.D.
Long Term Disabilityt G0% of basic monthly carninan-maximum $3,000.00 per month.
Hospital Insurances semi-private, major medical-$50.00 deductible pel* family. Pays 00% of eligible expenses up to $1,000.00 per year and 100% above.
2
An employee shall, not become entitled, to the, above benefits unless he has three (31 months continuous with the company. »
went i.onod service
3.	It is agreed that the average company contribution to the employee's insurance plan will be $14.90 er week and that ail eligible employees will contribute the difference in cost. It is also understood that any future increase/decrease in premiums will be absorbed on a 50/50 basis by tho employees and the company. However, any request by the employees for additional benefits during the present agreement, tho additional weekly cost will be fully absorbed by the employees,
4.	Employees on vacation are deemed to he employed and subject ho
£ul1 insurance coverage.	'
5.	All employees must adhere to th e . company 1 s group insurance plan upon,reaching their respective date of eligibility and must retain their participation in the plan throughout their period of employment with the company,
SCHEDULE V
---W----— CARD
TO:	C.S, BROOKS CORPORATION
CALDWELL PLANT
m e------------
. I. the undersigned, hereby authorize C.5. Urookn Corporation Caldwell Plant to deduct weekly and from rry first full pay period: union dues as ’set forth by the United Textile Workers of America, and remit same monthly to sard union.
I , hereby renounce ,in advance to any recourse in damages or Otherwise against C.S. Brooks Corporation, Caldwell .Plant, for malting, the, above mentioned deductions during such period as this authorization may be in ’force.
'EMPLOYEE'
WITNESS
United Textile Workers of America Local 470
360 St, Catherines/ Ontario L2R-3N2
Gentlemen:
This will, confirm our understanding of all matters agreed upon today at the signing of the new collective labour agreement between the United Textile Workers of America (Local470) and C.S Brooks Corporation, Caldwell Plant, with respect of its plant located in the corporation of the Village of Iroguois, in the Township of Matilda,
This letter of a reemsnt will remain in force from the day of signing up to and including September 30, 1995 .
i , Scissors allocation:
The company will replace scissors that have been broken by accident without any charge for the employees. This article will a ply not more, than twice 4 yea?. This applies for jobs reguesting the utilisation of scissors only.
1> Safety shoes:
Safety shoes will be furnished to employees eligible, to participate in the .Company's Safety Shoe Program during the contract year.
Dye House employees are eligible for two {2} pairs per ye^r ait maximum per pair. ft is agreed that these employees will be eligible for, an additional pa L r if 'their second pair should become unserviceable before the’’year is out.
All other employees on the pre-establ bshed list are eligible for one (1) pair per year at $7 5/00 maximumper year ana Maintenance employees eligible for two (2) pair per year.
Uniform:
Eligible employees as per the list will ,be furnished with Lab Coat and Weave Room Oilers will be furnished with coveralls at a rate of two (2) pairs per year paid in full by the Company.	^
4
Optional schedule of hours of work
If the need arises, the companyj-toill have the right to institute a seven (7) day operation schedule for all plant, a department or part of a department.
tn such a case, both the union and the employee will be previously contacted in order to disaufS th*	schedule
a* any othei- items related to sucn an tfoplsmentation. A one month notice period will be given prior to the shift implementation.
5. rradeamerv i
Xt is understood that tradesmen that have begun a taok on icegular schedule hours will be reguired to complete the task when completion of work cannot be delayed.
6.	IBenef it Plan:
In each ear of the agr-eement, the company will deduct two cents ($8.02) per hour worked per employ##, to be used by tlfie Union toward their benefit plan, That cumulated amount will be sent monthly to the United Textile Workers of America.
7.	Sunday Premium for Stationary Engineersi
It is understood that the hereafter mentioned Stationary Engineers will'be paid at the rate of a hundred and eighty five percent (185%) for work performed on Sunday, during the lifetime of the present collective labour agreement. '
NAME:	MR. MICHAEL SHARPG
MR. FRANCIS G0G0 MR i LAWRENCE MEHKLEX
0. Voluntary OvertimeWork:	RE:	i 1.05b
Between May 15th and Labour Day, any work performed after 23h0.0 Friday/ shall be voluntary except for Statidactcy Engineers, Watch Keepers and employees on weekend shifts.
Employees willing to perform overtime work Saturday during the voluntary weekend period will sign the overtime posting sheet by every Tuesday noon hour.
'The company will advise by Friday J.OhOO if work is available.
If there are not enough volunteer employees to Hill the needs of production on Saturday only, the company may at its discr-e-tixmn, use other workers to meet these needs, It is understood that those workers will be paid at regular straight time rate, without regard to the other provisions of this collective labour agreement and will have no rights under the collective labour agreement
9- "Ad Boo” Labour/Management Committee}
During the lifetime of the col lective labour agreement, the parties agree to meet to discuss all matters related Lo productivity or flexibility of administration, production, communication, cost re uct on, etc., in order to evaluate the possibilities g£ improving gach ope of these or any other matters taking into consideration the well-being of employees as hell as the well-being of the company.
By mutual agreement, the parties will attempt to identify the areas where such Improvements might be applied and the possible solutions to be implemented!
10,	Tool replacement:
It is generally agreed that, as a policy, -the Company will replace toold broken while working on Company property with tools of eguivalent quality and will endeavour to expedite the replacement.
11.	Meal arrangements - weekend employees!
There will be no interruption of the machines for meals but proper time will be allowed for the, same. There will be three twenty minutes .eating periods granted at a time designated by the Company during each shift provided that whenever possible productive machinery will be continued in operation during such twenty minutes and the Company will not be obliged Eo engage additional personnel to provide for the operation thereof. Employees, w i 11 take their rest period at a designated place. »
12.	Layoff and termination:
The Company will follow all present legislation in vagartla to teununalion of employment and termination or severance pay.
Tetppora?'/ layoffs may extend up to thirty-five (3$) weeks at which . time toe employee will firstly, have the ,cho i.c$ to exercise contractual bumping rights if available, secondly to receive any termination.or severance pay, or to maintain contractual recall righ'ts if this applies.
13.	Vacation request:;
Employees with twsnt .five (Vi) years sep/ice or more, may request one (1) additional week of vacation, and if a mutual exchange can be agreed to by the employees { the Company will endeavour to allow the extra week of vacation.
The mutual exchange can be done only if paid at a straight time rate, and no overtime payment will result from the mutual exchange.
14* Pension Plan:
The Company agrees to pay twenty cents (20) per hour for each employee (past the probationary periodl for all hours worked , to be deposited in a group A . R . P , Rules of eligibility etc. to be discussed and agreed.
15.	Gainsharing i
The Company and the Union agree to proceed .as quickly as possible with a Gainsharing Program.. Details will .be reviewed and proceeded with as expediently as feasible.
16.	Best ill Assignment
One operator per machine operating will be protected.
As discussed with all olassers, the majority wished to have the following:	“
Senior Claasers will choose their assianment at the start of the shift - lin^< secondary	BArucUp* This will be for
$ hours. There will be no displacing during the shift unless a layoff, illness, absence occurs.	“
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, each of the parties hereto has caused this agreamant to be signed by it s duly authorized representatives this 15th day of February, Lv$4t
For the union:	____________
d. LEMAY
D “BANK LEY
For the company:
(i. UAKUU
W. JUNES
k. mucsm
TH GTATTTT