HUNTINGDON (CANADA) LIMITED
SYNDICAT DES SALAIRE-E-S DES USINES HUNTINGDON (CSD)
00831(05)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Section 1
eclarationof the parties
1
^rkSoppage
4
union security
5
lection 4
irievance committee- union activities--
7
lection 5
irievance and arbitration procedure —
Section 6 Discipline
i/oi$Pload
11
15
18
Sections Hours of work
Section 9	,
Overtime procedure
Section 10 Payment of overtime
11
S'
Pi
action 13 ersonal holidays
Section 14,
Leave of absence
21
24
25 27
29
30
ection15 emonty .
30
Section 16
Annual paid vacations
43
-2
Section 17
Contributionsto group insurance..........46
Section 18
Bulletin Boards..........................49
n19
and safety
49
Section 20
Letters or other agreements.........50
Section 21
Schedule for weekend shifts .........51
) committee..................56
§ection23
orrespondence........................58
Section 24
Maternity leave.........................58
Notice extermination of employment .... 62 or lay-off and certificate of employment
Section 26
Indemnity in lieu of notice.............63
Section 27
Red circle rates .......................63
Section 28
Fixed-pnce contracts ...................63
Section 29
Group RRSP .............................64
Section 30
Term of agreement.......................65
Appendix «A» Appendix «B» Appendix «C»
SECTION 1
DECLARATIONOFTHE PARTIES
1.00	OBIEQILVeS,
This Agreement is entered into in order to:
A)	promote orderly and harmonious relations between the Employer, the Union and the employees covered by this Agreement;
B)	establishthe wages, hours and conditions of work, and to promote the security and the well-being of employees;
C)
the Employer, the Union or the employees duringtne term of this Agreement
settle amicably and promptly all complaints and Grievances which could arise between
D)	promote the efficiency of operations.
1.01	BIGHTS QF MANAGEMENT
The Union recognizes the Employer^ right to manage the plant and the industrial enterpnse in which It is engaged. Without limifingthe generality of the foregoing and subject to the other provisions of this Agreement ana subject to the grievance
Brocedureas It applies to ail matters pertaining to lis Agreement, this right includesthe following:
A)	to maintain order and discipline;
B)	to hire, classify, transfer, promote, demote, lay-off and dismiss, suspend or reprimand employees for cause:
C)	to introduce or change mechanical processes, study workloads and institute changes in workloads, injob assignments, In methods of operation, determine the compensation policy, determine the productsto be manufactured the production schedules, the types and locations of machines and tools to be used, the manufacturing processes, the control of materials to be used in manufacturing the products and whether to increase or curtail operations;
2
D)	to ensure the productivityand the security of its operations, organize and schedule the work, direct the work force, which right includes the rightto determine the personnel
1.02	UNION RECOGNITION
The Employeragrees to necognizethe Union as the sole bargaining agent duly authorized to represent, lor the puiposesof the Labour Code, at! employees included in the bargaining unit as defined in the union accreditation cervcate issued by the Ministers du Travail dated June 8,1989,
It is also understood that no individual agreement maybe entered into without an agreemenfin writing belween the Employerandthe union.
1.03	WORK CARRIED OUTBY STAFF
As a rule, the tasks included in the jobs covered by this Agreement and appearing in Appendix "A" may not be carried out by staff members when an employee i s able and available to do the work. This does not prevent staff members from doing such work in emergency cases or to train employees, to start up newmachines or restart, in the presence of Ire operator, a newly-repaired machine, to do expenmentalwork, to do development or other work deemed necessary by the Employer to control quality.
1.04	LEAPHANDS
The leadhandsare not considered to beforemen, they, cannot impose disciplinary measures or dismiss employees. However, if the foreman is not available, the instructions of the leadhands must be followed to insure the proper operation of the department.
3
1.05
A)	WORKING-DAY
For the purposes of this Agreement, and subject to Section 21.08, a "working day" means a weekday except Saturdays and Sundays, the legal holidays listed in Section 12 and such days when a department is closed or when an employee is not requiredto report forwork.
B)	QAX
Forthe purposes of Has Agreement, a "day" means a calendar day.
C)	SPOUSE
For the purposes of this Agreement, a "spouse" means a man and a woman who:
1)	are married and livingtogether;
2)	are living together as husband and wife and are the father and mother of the same child;
3)	have been living together as husband and wife for at feast one
(1)	year;
4)	Spouse can also mean, for the purposes of this Agreement, two
(2)	persons of the same sex who have been, living together in a marital relationshipfor at least one (1) year.
1.06	WORK PERFORMED BY STUDENTS
A)
The Employer may employ one or more students to do work that has previously been offered to employees covered by the bargaining unit in tne same department by seniority during the school summer vacation period, i.e. from April 15 until the first Monday in September, on regular time, pnovidedthatthls does not result in a regular employee being laid off or being prevented from being recalled.
4
It is understood that students will receive the legal wage or a higher rate i f specified.
B) A student does not acquire any rights under this Agreement except if otherwise provided by law and will be laid off no later than the first Monday in September.
1.07
Employees normally receive their work assignments and their orders from their foreman; however, arsy otherforeman or officer of the Employer may at all times discipline an employee who has damaged the equipment, machinery or other property of the Employer.
Each employee must obtain permission from his foreman or his replacement before leaving his department and must also obtain the permission from the foreman of the department where he is going.
1.08	DISCRIMINATION
The parties hereto agree that there will be no discrimination against anyone for reasons of race, colour, religion, sexual orientation or political conviction as far as hiring, promotions or exchange of positions are concerned. However, this clause may not be interpreted as overriding Section 3.05 which specifies that every employee must become and remain a memberofthe Union.
SECTION 2
WORK STOPPAGE
2.00
Both parties agree that neither the Union nor the Employer, nor any of their members, employees or representatives, may cause, aid, participate in or support any strike or1ock-out, or a work slow-down cr stoppage constituting a lock-out or strike of any naturewhatsoeverattne Employer's plant, during the term of this Agreement If an employee contravenes this section, he will have violated this Agreement and may be subject to dismissal.
5
Moreover, the Union undertakes not to do any picketing, even peacefully, during the term of He Agreement.
The two parties agree to do their best to prevent such actions and/or direct their members, employees or representatives to cease and desist from such actions.
SECTION 3	_
WITHHOLDING AND UNIONSECURITY
3.00
Duringtheterm of this Agreement the Employerwill acnspt any authorization signed by an employee on an authorization form supplied by the Union for deduction and remittance of his union dues. The Employer undertakes to forward to the Union monthly the amounts thus collected.
3.01	REVOCATION PERIOD
An employee may cancel a- revoke such authorization only between the ninetieth (90m) and sixtieth (60th) day preceding) the expiry date of this Agreement a- of any renewal thereof. Such revocation will be made by giving notice to the Employer. The revocation wiir not take effect until the expiiy date of this Agreement. Every authorization given pursuant to this section must be dean, legible and signed in duplicate by the employee. The Employerwill keep one copy and will send the other to the employee concerned.
3.02	NOTICE PERTAINING TO UNIONDUES
The Union undertakesto infbrmthe Errployer of the amount of union dues in force at the time of execution of this Agreement and, at least fifteen (15) working days before the date of the deduction, of any change in the said amount during the term of this Agreement.
3.03	COLLECTION
The Employerwill collect union dues at each pay period but will forward monthly to the treasurer of the Union the amounts so deducted.
6
3.04	LIST OF EMPLOYEES
A)	With its remittance the Employerwill give the Union a complete list indicating, by department:
the payroll numbers and the names of all employees appearing on the pay sheets at the time of deduction;
for every employee who has authorized such a deduction the weekly amount which has been collected;
B)
3.05
the names of the employees who did not pay union dues.
Once a year, in November, the Employerwill give the Union a list containingthe following information on its employees:
1)	Name
2)	Complete address Includingpostal
3)	felephone number
4|	Department
6)	Date of birth
UNION DUES
The Employer agrees that as a condition of employment all employees must be and remain members in good standing of the Union. All new employees must become members after one (1) complete week of work.
3.06 INTRODUCTION OF A NEW EMPLOYS
Following the hiring of a new employee, the foreman will Introduce him to the department steward within one (1) week. A copy of the collective agreement will be given to him after his probationary period.
7
SECTION 4
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE - UNION ACTIVITIES
4.00	COMPOSITION
A)	The parties agree to form at the time of execution of this Agreement, a grievance committee composed of four (4) members, two (2) (f which being designated by the Employer and the other two (2) by the Union, but not more than one (1) member per department.
Each of these members must have completed a minimum of six (6) months of continuous service with the Employer.
Each of the parties agrees to communicate i n writing to the other party the names of its representatives onthegrievancecommittee.
B)	If the Employer or the Union requests a meeting of tne grievance committee, the members of the committee will be paid for the time so lost while they would otherwise have been at work.
4.01	LOCAL OUTSIDF REPRESENTATIVE
It is agreed that if the Union or the Snuplayer has retained the services of a local outside representative, this person can be one of the representatives of the Union or the Employer.
4.02	DUTY
The grievance committee's duty is to assist the parties in studying and settling grievances. It may also undertake a review and discussion & a matter of common interest broughtto Its attention by one of the parties.
4.03	MEETINGS
The grievance committee will meet at -the request of one of the parties. Every meeting will rake pface within ten (10) working days following the written request of such party.
8
4.04	AGENDA
Within three (3) working days preceding each meeting, each of the parties to this Agreement must submit in writing to the other party its proposed agenda for such meeting. However every grievance referred to the committee before the beginning of the imeaHing in accordance with the provisions of paragrsychs 6.04 or 6,05 forms part of the agenda of the gnevance committee.
4.05	MINUTES OF THE MEETING
At each meeting held between the Employer and thegrievartce committee, the minuteswlll betaken andsigned copies will be exchanged by the patties at the end of each meeting. These minuteswill only reflect the discussions betweenthe parties and may in no case be interpretedas an agreement binding on the patties. Every agreement reached between the parties must be clearly indicated on a document countersigned by the parties.
4.06	GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
Everyemployeewhose grievance has been referred to the qrievancecommme
s grievancecommitfee may attend the meeting of the grievance committee, if the employee and the Union orthe Employerso requests. In such cases, the employee must leave the meeting after having explained his case. In the case or a collective grievance, one of the employees who has signed the grievance may attend the meeting of the grievancecommittee, if the employee andine Union orthe Employerso requests. In such cases, the employee must leave the meeting after having explained the case.
4.07 UNION STEWARD APPOINTMENT
A) The Union may appoint a Union steward for each one of the following departments:
9
B)	Moreover, the Union may appoint an additional Union stewardforeach evening or night shift with more than ten (10) employees, as perthe last seniority list.
C)	The Union will give in writing to the Employer, within fifteen (15) days of their appointment, the names of employees so appointed as well as the name of every employee who will beappointedto replace a steward. The names of the stewards will be posted on the bulletin board of the department The steward must be an employee of the department and of the shift he represents and have six (6) months of continuous service with the Employer.
4.08	DUDES
The duties of the steward will be to study all grievances or difficulties which will be brought to his attention by employees of his department and he will act according to the procedures described in Sections, (Grievanceandarbitration procedure).
4.09	RESPONSIBILITIES
The steward will have no poyrer or authority to settle the cases which are submitted to him. His duties and responsibilitiesam strictly limited to those of an investigator. His duties are to report directly to the foreman of the department as well as to the Union. VWhout limitingthe generality of the foregoing, the steward may participate in the discussions but may not take part in the meetings of the grievance committee.
4.10	COMPENSATION
It is understood that the representatives of the Union have their own regular work to do for the Employerand that if it becomes necessary for them to take care of a grievance during working hours, the employeewho wishes to meet the president or an officer of the Union will not leave his work without having obtained the permission of his foreman and or the foreman of the employee whom hewishesto meet, andwill advise himwhen he has retumedto work.
10
In order to minimize production losses, it is understoodthatgrievanceswill be dealt wtth outside working hours as much as possible, and, on the basis dr this principle, the Employer agrees not to reduce the pay of representatives because of time spent dealing with grievances during regular working hours.
4.11
A)
Ltj-AVE CF ABSENCE
<*Bsnr=£
FOR UNION
The Employer agrees to grant officers or stewards f the Union a leave of absence for Union activities outside the plant. A maximum of five (5) members at any one time will be released fora maximum period of four (4) days at any one time. The members thus released will receive their regular pay in accordance with 4.11 (D) below.
B)	The Union has to notify the Employer in writing within seven (7) working days preceding the releases. Nevertheless, the two (2) parties agree to derogate from the minimum time period of seven (7) working days in emergency cases, but not less than forty-eight (48) hours of notice.
C)	Requests for permission to absent themselves will be presented to the Employer in witting, indicatingthe date(s) of such absences, the name(s) of the members concerned, the reason for the absence, the number of hours and the rate to be paid to each of the members concerned.
D)	The Union will be responsible for the payment of wages to the representatives during their absences. However, the Employer agrees to administerthese funds. The Employer will pay these amounts weekjy to the representatives. Thereafter, the Employer will retain monthly from all amounts due to the Union the amounts thus paid and plus 22% of the regular gross pay.
E)	The Employer may fill the positions concerned in the mannertt deems the most practical.
11
n Ifthe Employercannotfillthesepositionsin a satisfactory manner because of problems resulting, for example, from two or more employees being released from the same department at the same time, the Employer and the Union must agree on the employees to be released.
GRIEVANCE AND ARBITRATION PROCEDURE
5.00	PREAMBLE
For the purpose of settling any complaints or grievances submitted by an employee, except for grievances arisingfrom the application 6f Section 7 of this Agreement which must be settled in accordance with the. procedure specified in Section 7.01, the parties establish the following procedure:
5.01	COMPLAINT
When an employee (or a steward for a group of employees) have a complaint to make, he will submit it verbally to the foreman of the department or to the foreman of the shift and a verbal reply will be given to him. A complaint does not constitute a grievance.
5.02	GRIEVANCE - FIRSTSTEP
An employee who wants to make a grievance will submit it in writing to the foreman of the department orthe foreman or the shift personally within eleven (11) working days Mowing the occurrence, except if the employee Is not physicallyabte to sign such a grievance (for reasons such as sickness). I n that event, his steward may sign in his place and submit his grievance within eleven (11) working days following the occurrence, or if hev^s absent from work, then his becoming a^aie., uponhis return, of the circumstances whicn gave nse to the gnevance. in the latter case, this time period may not exceed sax (6) months from the occurrence of the circumstances which gave rise to the grievance.
12
The foreman of the department or shift must within five (5) working days following receipt of the grievance in writing, communicate his written decision to the person having submitted the grievance, Hoover, if the foreman does not render nis decision within the five (St following ''
days, the grievance will automatically be deemed to be referred to r/re second step by tne Union orthe employee.
5.03	GRIEVANCE - SECOND STEP
A)	If the employee is not satisfied with the decision, the Union must then submit the grievance in writing, signed by a memberof the grievance committee, to the Director of Human Resources within five (5) working days following the date of tne written
decision of theforeman of the department or shift.
B)	The Director of Human Resources must communicate, within five (5) working days following receipt of the written grievance or the automatic referral as described in the foregoing paragraph, hold a meeting of the grievance committee.
C)	Following the meeting, the Director of
■ Human Resources muHtglve his decision i n writing to the Union within five (5) working days following the adjournment of the meeting of the grievance committee.
5.04	COLLECTIVE GRIEVANCES
A) A collective grievance maybe submitted by the Union directly at the second (2nd) step of the grievance procedureto the Director of Human Resources within eleven (11) working days as specified in paragraph 5.02, provided that the grievance Is signed by at least one of the employees Involved and by the steward of the department involved.
13
A collective grievance involving more than one department may be submitted by the Union directly at the second (2nd) step of the grievance procedure to the Director of Human Resources within eleven (11) working days as specified in paragraph 5.02, provided that the grievance is signed by an officer of the Union.
Any dispute or grievance arising directly between the Employer and the Union may be submitted in writing directly by any one of the parties to the grievance committee.
PRESCRIPTION
If a grievance is not submitted in the time periods specified for either of the foregoing steps by the employee and/or the steward of the department or the Union, the grievance will be deemed to have been withdrawn.
All written decisions reached by the Director cf Human Resources of the Employer and the grievance committee of the Union will be final and will bind the Employer, the Union and the empioyee(s) concerned.
If a grievance, other than one arising from the application of Section 7 of this Agreement, is submitted to the grievance committee, in accordance with paragraphs 5,04 a-5.05 and is not settled in a satisfactory manner bv the said committee, the Union will send to the Employer by registered lettera written request for arbitration.
IT'S request must be made within ten (10) working days from	:eipt oftl Employer's written decision
by the parties. If wit	the above ne	i
(10) working days t	Union falls t<	>	*
Employer of a ]i i for arbitration, th i c will be deemed : have been wi
from the atici of in he manner specified
<	s ir	s arising
i cl n	)1 will be s
in Section 7.01 B)
14
5.07	SINGLE ARBITRATOR
A)	When in accordance with paragraph 5.06 above, the Employer will have received notice <f a request for arbitration, the grievance will be consideredto have been submitted to a single arbitrator to be chosen in turn among the following arbitrators:
B)	If a single arbitrator cannot act within a reasonable time period of six (6) months or if the designated single arbitrator has still not rendered his decision in a previous case, the next arbitrator will be chosen.
C)	If the above arbitrators cannot be available within a reasonable time period, one of the
Parties will ask the Minister of Labour cf the rovince of Quebec to designate an arbitrator.
D)	The fees and expenses of the single arbitrator will be shared equally by tne Employer and the Union.
E)	The parties may amend and/or add arbitrators to the above list by mutual agreement.
5.08 PEGISIOM
Mtre. Marc Gravel Mtre. Jean-Guv Cldment . :e. Nicolas Cliche Are. Diane Sabounn
The single arbitrator referred to in paragraph 5.07 must render a written decision, with grounds, within thirty (30) days of the hearing cf the grievance or the submission of written notes as the case may be. The decision ofthe single arbitrator will befinal and will bind the parties hereto and all other employees concerned.
5.9	LIMITATIONOF PCWER
The single arbitrator ' amend, alter or modify'
not have the power to
In the case of grievances relating to disciplinary measures, the single arbitrator will nave the rightto maintain, amend or cancelthe Employer's decision.
15
If the single arbitrator does not maintain the Employer's decision, he will have the right to order an indemnity notexceediiigthe loss of salary of the employee in the plant or any lesser indemnify he will find suitable.
5.10
Any claim resulting from the settlement of a grievance submitted by an employee or a group of employees pursuantto any one of the steps of the grievance or arbitration procedure cannot relateto a period of time exceeding eleven (11) working days preceding the date when the grievance was submitted.
5.11
An arbitratorwho renders a decision involving the payment of asum of money shall retain jurisdiction, In the event of a dispute, to determine the amount of same.
5.12
Each and every one of the time limits specified in this Agreement may be extended at any time following a written agreement between the Employer and the Union.
SECTION 6 DISCIPLINE
6.00 DISCIPLINARY MEASURES
A)	In order to maintain discipline and good order the Employer and the Union agree to adopt the following methods and procedures and agree that these will be applied as consistently, fairly end equitably as possible. The patties also agree that the disciplinary measures will be applied according to the seriousness or the frequency of the offenses.
B)	The only authorized disciplinary measures are written reprimands, suspensions and dismissals.
16
C)	Verbal notices pertainingto circumstances of a different nature may not be invoked by the Employer to justify the imposition of a disciplinary measure on an employee.
6.01
The main purpose of a disciplinary measure is to bringabout a change in the employee's behaviour. Before imposing a disciplinary measure, the foreman must explain to the employee the facts which are likely to result in such disciplinary measure and give the errnloyee the opportunity to resent his version of the lads in the presence of a Union steward if he so desires.
6.02
Any disciplinary measure is subject to the grievance procedure.
6.03
A) If the Employer decides to reprimand an employee in writing or to impose a disciplinary or administrative suspension or dismissal, the Employerwill inform a Union representative thereof.
B\ It an employee is required to leave the plant following an incident likely to result in a disciplinary measure (suspension or dismissab, the employee may, after having punched his card, consult his steward or a Union officer during their regular working hours, without loss of salary for such steward or officer.
6.04	DISMISSING PERMANENT EMPLOYEES
Every employee who Is dismissed or suspended for more than one (if) week andwho feels that he was unjustly dealt with, may submit his case to the grievance committee diredly in writing or through the Union accordingto the second step described in Section 5.03, and step one of the grievance procedurewill then be omitted.
17
6.05	INDEMMin
If a suspension which has been submitted to the grievance committee or to arbitration in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 6.04 above is deemed to be unfair the grievance committee or the single arbitrator will have the right to determine the amount of indemnity, if any, to the extent of the amount of salary loss.
If a dismissal which has been submitted to the grievance committee orto arbitration in accordance with the provisions cf paragraph 6.04 above is deemed to be unfair, the grievance committee or Ihe single arbitratorwill have the right to order the reinstatement of the employee who was dismissed and to determinethe amount cf indemnity, if any, to the extent of the amount of salary loss.
6.06
All disciplinary measureswill be nemovedfromthe file of the employee twelve (12) months after being recorded therein.
Every month during which an employee did not actually work will be added to the twelve (12) months mentioned in the foregoing paragraph.
6.07
A disciplinary noticermustbe given to the employee within ten (10) days following the occurrence orthe knowledge a the circumstancesgiving rise thereto. During the five (5) working days following receipt of a disciplinary notice by an employee, the Employer will give one (1) copy of such written notice which has been recorded in the employee's file to a member of the executivecommittee of the Union.
6.08
If an employee is suspended for more than one day, the suspension days will be consecutive.
6.09
The Union steward of the departmentconcerned or, if he is not available, a member of the executive committee, will sign the written reprimand, but only as an acknowledgement receipt.
18
SECTION 7
WORK LOAD
7.00
In the case of a new job governed by this Agreement or in the case of a technological change or In the case of major changes to an existing workload, the Employer will determine temporarily the workload and the salary and will advise the Union thereof in writing within a reasonabletime.
7.01
A)	The Employerwill then Institute a trial period of sixty (60) working days in order to determine whether the new salary and/or workload is fair.
B)	If, after the trial period, the parties cannot agree, within ten (10) working days following completion of the trial period, the Union may raise the matter according to the grievance procedure directly at the secondstep and the patties will then agree on a qualified arbitrator, falling which the Minister of Labourwill appoint an arbitrator.
7.02
If no procedure is instituted duringthistime period, the salary rates and the workloads which have been determined during the tnaf period wilt be deemed to have been established and accepted by the parties.
VMien a grievance has been submitted, the workloads, the salary rates and the working conditions having prevailed during the trial period will remain Inforce until a final decision is made on the grievance.
SECTION 8 HOURS OF WORK
8.00
A)	Shifts and Hours of Work
For each job appearingin Appendix "A" cf this Ageement, the normal working day will be comprised of eight (8) hours and the normal work week will start at 11:00 p.m. on
19
Sunday and be allocated until 11:00 p.m. on Friday inclusively, as required. The Employer Will determine whelherthe plant as a whole, a whole department a-one section of a department may operate with one, two or three shifts.
However, if two weekend shifts are in place, in accordance with Section 21, within the same department, the normalworit week will start at 7:00 am on Monday and end at 7:00 a.m. on the following Saturday, inclusively. The Employer will determine whether the plant as a whole a whole department or one section of a department may operate with one or two or three shifts.
8.00
B)	Meals
There will be no machine interruption for meals and the time for meals will be paid to those employees replacingeach other.
However, all employees on continuous operations will, when required, replace each other during mealtimes in order to ensure proper operations In accordance with the requirements of production.
C)	Rest Periods
All employees will be entitled to a rest period often (10) minutes on a regularshrft of eight (8) hours.
However, all employees on continuous operations will, when required, replace each other during the rest period in order to ensure proper cjce rationsinaccordancewith
The Employerwill also grant a period of five (5) minutes at the end of each shift to allow employees to wash themselves before leaving work, as long as employees who work on continuousoperations replace each other.
20
D) 1)
2)
3)
4)
5)
6)
Employees must register their arrival and departure time on and from, the plant on the cards provided for this purpose. Moreover, every employee who is not paid durin meal time has to punch his car! at the end of his workandwhen he returns to work Any employee having neglected to follow this rule must have their cards approved by their supervisor before the cards can be accepted by the paymaster.
An employee who punches in late will haveaeduced from his pay the actual time lost.
Start of work: An employee must not punch his card more than twenty (20) minutes before the start of his shift.
End <f work: An employee must punch his card whai he leaves work before the specified time.
An employee who cannot report for work must notify his foreman or a representative of the Employer at least:
a)	Fifteen (15) minutes before the start of the morning shift
b)	One (1) hour before the start of the afternoon or evening shift.
If an employee is absent for more than three (3) days he must notify his foreman at least twenty-four (24) hours before the date of his return to work.
21
7) Work attendance
All e rnployees must start work or be at their machines or jobs at the time specified for the start of their shift. They must not leave work before the end of their respective shifts.
8.01	CHANGES IN WORKING HOURS
Working hours may be changed in order to improve efficiency, to balance production, to improve quality, in cases of force majeure or for any other valid reasons. Such changes will only be made once an agreement has been reached between the Employer and the Union.
8.02
The purposeof Section 8 isto determine the regular working hours: it should not be interpreted as guaranteeing annual, weekly or daily salaries or working hours.
8.03	ADDITIONAL HOURS
it is understood by mutual consent of the parties that certain shifts or parts of such shifts may work regularly for periods & time exceeding those stipulated above, provided that the provisions of Section 9 concerning payment of overtime are complied with.
8.04
If the parties M to reach an agreement and in order to safeguard the viability or the operations, the provisions cf paragraphs 8.01 and 8.03 may be applied bythe Employer and the burden of proof will fall upon the Employer through the Director of Human Resourcesornissubstitute.
SECTION 9
OVERTIME PROCEDURE
9.00
ft is understood that in the event overtime is required, eitherfor additional hours or to replace an employee who is absent, the work will be offered in the following order:

22
A)
B)
C)
D)
E)
F)
To the employee who is working on the same machine or task (including the weekend people who are scheduledto do their eight (8) hours during the week) on the shift in place.
If this employee is not available, it will be offered to those employees on the in place within the same department, on the same job, in rotation and by order of seniority, provided that they can accomplish the work.
If the employees referred in the foregoing paragraph are not available, the work will be offered to the employees of the department of the shift in place, by order of seniority, providedthat they can accomplish the wore.
During the summer period as defined in Sbdtkn 16.00 B), the Employer may assign students to do overtime IT the employees referred to in paragraphs A), B) orC) refuse to or are not avairable to do the work The overtime will be offered first to the students doing the same job on the shift in place, if any, providedthat they can accomplish the work.
Ifthe overtime required is for a full shift, the Employermay offerthe first four (4) hours of overtime to the employees of the shift in place, and the second four (4) hours of overtime to the following shift in accordance with the procedureoutlined above.
If the employees referred to in the above paragraphs refuse to or are not available to do the work, the work will be offeredto the employee who works on the same machine or job on the following shift.
G)	If this employee is not available, the work will
be offeredto the employees of the following shift on the same Job, in rotation and by order of seniority, provided that they can accomplish the wore.
23
I)	If the employees referred to in the above paragraph are not available, the work will be offered to employees of the department, in order of seniority, provided that they can accomplish the work.
J)	If an employee is transferred temporarily in accordance with the provisions of Section 15.12 A), his regular job will be deemed to be his regular job for the purposes of distribution of overtime in accordance with Section 9.
K)	In order not to compromise the health and safety of employees, an employee will be deemed to be unavailable if he cannot have a compulsory rest period of at least eight (8) consecutive hours within any twenty-four (24) hour period.
9.01
A)	If an employee believes that overtime has not been offered to him according to the above mentioned procedure, he will so notify his foreman. If a new opportunity for overtime is not offered to him within fifteen
Sundays wherf ^ overtime has ^been scheduled), then the Employer will pay for the lost overtime.
B)	If an employee refuses overtime which has been offered to him, it will be the responsibility of the employee to notify his foreman when he is ready to do overtime the next time.
9.02	OVERTIME ON SATURDAYS AND
ailHIEBK
If overtime is required on Saturdays and Sundays, the procedure outlined in Sections 9.00 and 9.01 will be applied first.
Thereafter, the Employer will offer the overtime to qualified employees from other departments. If no employee is available in the plant, vie Employer will then recall qualified employees who have been laid off.
24
SECTION 10.00 PAYMENTOF OVERTIME
10.00
A)	OVERTIME DURING THE WEEK
All work carried out during the week outside the regulardaily hours specified in Sections will be paid at one and a half (1%) the regular rate.
B)	OVERTIME ON SATURDAYS
All work carried out on Saturdays will be paid at one and a half (1 %)the regular rate. This clause does not apply to weekend shifts as outlined 'in Section21.
C)	OVERTIME ON 9UNPAY3
All work carried out on Sundays will be paid at twice (2) the regular rate. This provision does notapply to weekend shifts as outlined in Section 21.
D)	OVERTIME ON LEGAL HOLIDAYS
All work carried out on a paid holiday as indicated in Section 12 (except Christmas Day and New Year's Day will be paid at one ana a half (1%)the regu ar rate.
Any employee who wortcs on Christmas Day and/or New Yeafe Day will be paid at twice (2) the regular rate.
E)	OVERTIME - METHOD OF CAICUIATION
An employee nay not receive overtime twice for hours worked during a day or a week of work. Overtime will be paid only for hours which have actually been worked.
It is understoodthat in the application of this Agreement, an employee may not receive more than one overtime bonus at any time for the same period of work.
F)	Calculation of overtime Will not includeshift premiums.
25
SECTION 11 WAGES
11.00 SCHEDULE OF WAQE?
Except in the case of a new or amended job, the contractual wages will be those which are indicated in the schedule of wages attached to this Agreement.
11.01	PROBATIONARY PERIOD
The rats payable to new employees will be $1.00 in excess of the minimum wage. This rate will be in effect for the first thirty (30) days, after which the employee will receive an additional $1.00 per hour eveiv three (3) months until he reaches the rate applicable to his classification. The Employer may increase this rate more quickly but in any event the employee will receive the rate applicable to his classification after nine (9) months.
11.02	PAYDAY
Wages will be paid every week no later than Thursday, eitherby cheque a- bank deposit.
If pay day falls on a legal holiday, the pay will be handed out on the preceding wowing day.
Any mistake involving more than forty dollars ($40) will be corrected by means of a separate cheque during the same week.
11.03	SHIFT PREMIUM
A)	2nd shift: premium of $0.12 per
noun
B)	3rd shift: premium of $0.22 per
hour.
11.04	CALL-IN PAY Four Hours of Pav
A) Every employee who has not been notified in advance that his services will not be required and who reports for work at the usual time to do his regular job, may be assigned by the Employer to do four (4) hours of work, on his regular job or on another job, for which he will receive an
26
amount equivalent to four (4) hours at his regular rate.
B) However, if no work has been assigned to this employee, hewill be paid a minimum of four (4) hours at his regular rate, provided that he stays in his department, unless he receives a contrary order from representatives of the Employer, except in cases where it is not possible to assign him to his regular job for reasons beyond the control or ifte Employer, such as steam or powerfailures or fires.
11.05	RECALL TO WORK
Every employee who has been recalled to work outside of nis regular hours will receive a minimum of three (31 hours <f pay at his regular rate or one and a hair (116) his regular rate for fhe time actually worked, whichever is'higher.
The following informationwill appear on the stub of the paycheque of each employee:
1.	pay period
2.	hours
3.	earnings
4.	deductions
regular
overtime
total
regular . oyertime Rremium shm premium
KfaF"'"'
5.	net earnings
6.	accruedto date:	earnings
7.	accrued to date:	vacation
27
The Employer will indicate on the T4 and RelevS 1 slips of every employee the amount of union dues withheld dunng the year.
11.07	COMPENSATION FOR JURY DUTY
A regular employee who has completed his jrobaoonary period and who is nequinedto report for ury duly will receive for every day the difference between his regular rate of pay (not including shift premiums or overtime) for the number of hours that he normally works on his regular shift, and the payment that he will receive for Jury, duly. The employee has to present proof 6f his jury duty service and the amount of money he has received or will receive for this.
SECTION 12 LEGAL HOLIDAYS
12.00
A)
B)
There will be twelve (12) paid legal holidays:
There will be a 13th and a 14th legal holidays belween Christmas and Na/v Year's Day.
If an employee is not eligible to be paid for St*Jean Baptiste Day pursuantto the above provisions ne will neverthelessbe entitled to such payment provided that he was entitled to a salary <r indemnity in lieu thereof for at least ten (10) days during the period belweenJune 1st and June 23rd.
28
C)
D)
The 13th and 14thlegal holidayswill be paid in all cases, in accordance with Section 12.00 D), and will take place between Christmas and New Year's Day, in order to cover unpaid days.
However, if the Employer decides to operate in one or more departments, these will be normal working days, but will be paid at double the regular rate of pay (regular pay plus holiday pay).
ELIGIBILITY FOR LEGAL HOLIDAYS
To beeligiVte for paymenton lsgal holidays, an employee has to meet the following
requirements:
He has to have been employed by the Employer for a period of thirty (30)calendar days.
He has to have worked a full shift on the working day immediately preceding and immediately ollowing the holiday in question, except in thefollowing cases:
a)	if there is a death in the family as provided for Section 13;
b)	in the case of lay-off, an employee will be eligible if his penod of absence does not exceed twenty-one (21) consecutive calendar days immediately precedingthe holiday;
c)	in the case of sickness or accident certified by a doctor's certificate, an employee will be eligible If his period of absence does not exceed one week immediately precedingthe holiday;
d)	he has to have received a prior written permission from the Employer;
29
e)	however, if an employee has not worked on the working days preceding and following a legal holiday and if there is more than one consecutive legal holiday, the Employer may not penalize an employee for more than one legal holiday.
12.01
If any of the legal holidays mentioned above fa 11 on a day which fc not a working day, the holiday will be granted on the preceding or following day, as agreed between the parties.
SECTION 13
PERSONAL HOLIDAYS
13.00	BEREAVEMENT LEAVE

A) The Employer agrees to compensate an employee for lost salary up to a maximum of five (5) days, four (4) days ortwo (2) days, as the case msy be, in the event of death in the immediatefamily:
■ Spouse, children: five (5) days. .
- Father, mother, father-in-law mother-in-aw, brother or	sister: four (4) days.
• Brother-in-law, sister-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law or grandparents: two (2) days.
For more certainty it is understoodthat the compensation for lost salary will be paid starting from the day following the death if the death occurs outside the employee's ■ normalworking hours.
B)	It is understoodthat an employee may not
claim payment for a bereavement leave unless the death occurs on a working day on which the employee would normally have worked. The employee must submit a proof of the death deemed acceptable by the Employer.
30
13.01WEDDING LEAVE
An employee may be absent for one (1) day without reduction in pay on his wedding day.
An employee may also be absent from work, without pay, on the wedding day of one of his children, his father, his mother, niis brother, his sister or his spouse's child.
SECTION 14 LEAVE OF ABSENCE
14.00
A)	The Employer may grant in writing a leave of absence to an employee who personally asks for it. This request must be made in writing to the Director of Human Resources, indicating the reason for and the length of the leave of absence.
In the event that such a leave cf absence is granted, the employee will continue to accrue his seniority up to ninety (90) days. After this ninety (90) day period, his seniority will be maintained but will no longer accrue.
B)	If an employee works elsewhere during a leave of absence he will lose all of nis seniority, unless he has been previously authorized by the Employerln writing to do so.
SECTION 15 SENIORITY
15.00 DEFINITION
For the purposes of this Agreement, seniority means the total length of service of an employee, subject to the following conditions:
A)	PROBATIONARY PERIOD
In order to acquire seniority rights within themeanlna of this Agreement, exceptfor paragraph 15.13, an employee must nave completed a probationary period of seventy-five (75) full days actually worked
31
in the bargaining unit within a period not exceeding twelve (12) months.
Once his probationary period is completed he has acquired seniority rights and the date of his seniority is established retroactivelyto seventy-five (75) working days priorto the date of completion of the probationary period.
No grievance may be submitted with respect to the dismissal, transfer, demotion or lay-off of an employee during his probationary period. However, unless there are contrary provisions, such an employee will enjoy the other rights and privileges set forth in this Agreement
Moreover, it is understood that an employee who works in several departments during his probationary period will have his seniority credited to nim in the last department where he completes his probationary period. Hoover, this does not apply to temporary transfers which are made at the request of the Employer.
B) ACCRUAL OF SENIORITY
In cases of lay-off, sickness <r accident, an employee will continue to accrue seniority as long as he does not lose it within the meaningof paragraphs 15.01 D) or 15.01 E) as the case may be. However, in cases covered by an Act respecting industrial accidents and occupational ofiseases (administeredby the C.S.S.T.), an employee continues to aocrue seniority for a maximum of twenty-four (24) months.
15.01	UPSS OF SENIORITY
An employee loses both his seniority and his job
when he:
A) voluntarily leaves the employment of the Employer;
B)	is dismissed for just cause and the dismissal 'b not reversed or amended through the grievance procedure;
C)	fails to report for work after a lay-offwithin seven (7) days after a notice has been sent to him ov registered mail by the Employer. If tne employee notifies the Employer within forty-eight (48) hours following receipt of a recall notice that he Intends to returnto work but claims to be incapable of doing so at the specified time for reasons beyond his control, his name will be left on the seniority list provided that the reasons given by him are acceptable;
D)	i s absent without permission and without a valid reason for three (3) consecutive working days;
E)	is absent because of a lay-off, sickness or accident not covered by the C.S.S.T., in accordance with the following:
less than one year: after an absence of one (1) year;
from one (1) year to less than five (5) years: after an absence of eighteen (18) months;
five (5) years or more: after an absence of twenty-four (24) months.
F)	an employee who is absent from work due to an occupational injury compensated by the C.S.S.T. continuesto accrue seniority tr a period not exceeding twenty-four (24) months.
33
15.02	APPLICATION OF SENIORITY
The following rules Will be applied first of ail to employees of the department concerned, before choosing someone else in the plant.
The departments are defined as follows:
15.03
A)	DEHNITION OFTHE TERM “JOB
For the purposes of this Section 15, a job opening resultsfromthe normaltumover of personnel due to reasons such as retirement, new job. resignation, death, promotion, dismissal, demotion, transfer outside the bargaining unit, or increase of employees in ajob category. The foregoing provision does not have the effect of requiringthe Employerto post job openings which it does not want to fill, rnthe case of permanent job openings, which have been posted the Employer will not be obliged to ill such job openings when it has valid reasons not to do so.
B) 1.PQS.TINQ
The Employer will post job openings for a period of two (2) working days, first of all in the department concerned, all permanent job openings.
If, at the end of this period, no employee of the department has applied or been retained to fill this permanent job opening, the Employer will then post the job opening in the plant for a period of two (2) working days, and the employees of the department will no longer be entitled to apply for this job.
34
In all cases, employees who wish to apply for a job must complete the posting form available from their foreman. Upon expiry of the posting period, a copy of the posting form will be given to the Union.
The Employer will fill the position in accordance with the provisions of Sections 15.04 A) and 15.04 B).
2.	An employee who is absent for reasons already provided for in this Agreement during the posting period may apply through a Union representative or another employee having been given a proxy indicating the job and the shift being applied for. It is understood that the applicant who is selected must be available within the five (5) working days following his being retained for the job, in accordance with the provisions of Sections 15.04 A) and 15.04 B).
3.	New employees who have completed their probationary period may apply in their own department. To apply in another department, an employee must have one (1) full year of seniority to his credit.
4.	Employees who are eligible to apply for a job must not have obtained a new job during the past six (6) months.
15.04	OPENING FOR A PERMANENT JOB
A)
in the case of an opening for a permanent job other than a key job, seniority will prevail among employees, provided that the
■ « ^	*	• ' I	Hfl •«
If he has them, he must be able to do the required work after a training period.
B)	In the case of a permanent job opening for a key job, if several applicants show equal competence, efficiency and skills to do the job, seniority will prevail.
35
C)	For the purposes of this section, the key jobs are the following:
Leadhand
Mechanic
- Shift coordinator (subject to the letter of agreement applicable to coordinators)
D)	In all cases where the Employerforesees a vacancy for any job, for example in case of retirement, and when the Employer has been notified of such vacancy far enough in advance for it to train a replacement, it is understoodthat such vacancies will be filled according to the provisions of paragraphs 15.04 A) or 15.04 B), as the case maybe.
E)	Except under exceptional circumstances, an employee who has been selected to fill a permanent job opening b assigned to the sad job within a period not exceeding fifteen (15) working days.
15.05
A)
B)
An employee who obtains a new job pursuant to the "job opening" clause may, if he wants to, return to his former job within five (5) working days.
If an employee returns voluntarily to his previous fob, he will not be entitled to apply for another job for a period of six (6) months in his own department and for a period of nine (9) months to apply for a job in another
department.
The foregoing paragraph does not apply when an employee is transferred to do the same job within anothershift.
An employee who obtains a new job pursuant to the "permanent job opening” clause [Sections 15.04 A) or 115.04 B)j may be sait back at any time by the Employerto his previous job within fifteen (15) working days following the conmpletion of his training period, if the Employer is of the opinion that his work Is notsatlsfactory.
36
C)	Wien a job opening is filled by an employee
covenedby this Agreement thejob which he had previously then becomes vacant.
However, after two (2) employees per posting have tried a vacant position and been returned to their previous jobs, a-if a permanentjob opening has been posted for which there has been no application, or if those who have applied have not obtained ihe'jdb, the Employerwin fill thejob opening with:
work without training.
2.	Next an employee who has been laid off, in accordance with the requirements of Sections 15.04 A) or 15.04 B), as the case may be. In this case, notwithstanding Section 15.10, an employee who accepts a job within another department while he is being laid-off shall be deemed to nave applied for a new job for the purposes of Section 15.03 B) 4).
3.	Next by someone from the outside.
15.06	CHOICE OF SHIFTS
The following provisions will govern the choice of shifts in the case of temporary vacancies.
Wien there are three (3)shlfts in operation in a departmentwhene the night shift is permanent, and if there has been a temporary opening for more than twenty (20) working days on a machine, an employee who normally works on that machine in that department on a regular shift may use his seniority rights to choose one of the other two shifts.
1
37
15.07	TEMPORARY VACANCIES
A)	V\frien the Employer has been advised that an employee will be temporarily absent from his work for a period cf twenty (20) consecutive working days or more, he will be replaced temporarily in accordance with Section 15.06 of this Agreement Once the employees normally working on the same machine on the third shift will have availed themselves cf the provisions of Section 15.06, the Employer will fill the ensuing temporary vacancy in the manner that it deems the mart practical.
However, If employees normally working on the same job do not avail themselves of the provisionsof Section 15.06, the most senior employee currently doing anotherjob in tfe department where the temporary vacancy has occurred will have the right to fill sucn vacancy, provided that he is qualified to do the work and that his replacement does not need training. The Employer will then fill the ensuing temporary vacancy In the manner that it deems the most practical. VUien the employee who was absent returns to work, employees who have been transferred to another shift and/or job will return to their previousjob and/or shift.
The foregoing does not have the effect of requiring the Employer to fill temporary vacancies.
B)	In the case of a temporary vacancy, if no employee from the department is interested in the vacancy, the Employer will apply the rules set forth in Sedfion 15.05 C), (if. (2) and (3).
15.08
A)	LAY-OFP - UP TQ TWQ DAYS
If it becomes necessary to reduce the number cf employees on a job in a department for a period not exceeding two (2fworking days, employeesassignedto
38
such job and shift will be laid off without taking into account seniority. It Is understood that employees so laid off will nothavethe rightto bump other employees.
B)	FROM THREE TO fifteen
If it becomes necessary to reduce the number f employees on a job in a department for more than too (2) working days up until fifteen (15) days, employees assigned to such job and shift will belaid off in reverse order or seniority. It: is understood that employees so laid off will be entitled to bump the least senior employee on ajob in the same department, provided that he can do the job without training.
C)	fcffigFF ■ MORE THAN FIFTEEN (15)
Employees laid df for more than fifteen (16) days may bump the least senior employee on another job in the following order:
1)	within his department, provided that he has completed his probationaryperiod and is capable of doing the job without training;
2)	failing this, also within his
department, providedthat he would be capable of doingthe job aftera training period not exceeding five (5) days;	a
3)	within another department <f the same division, provided that he has at least one (1) year of seniority and is capable of doing the job without training;
4)	failingthis, also within his division, provided that h e would be capable of doing the job after a training period not exceedingfive (5) days;
39
5)	within a department of another division, provided that he has at least one (1) year of seniority and that he is capable of doing the job without training;
6)	failing this, also within a department of another division, pnovidedthat he would be capable of doing the job after a training period not exceeding five (5) days:
7)	in the last resort, an employee with one (1) year of seniority who has been laid off and is unable to maintain his employment pursuant to the foregoing paragraphs may use his bumpiim rights to secure another job within the plant, provided that he bumps an employee who has the least seniority on the job and that he would be capable of doing the work after a training period not exceeding one (1) day per year of seniority on the new job to the extent of fifteen (15) working days <f training.
it is understood that upon subsequent layoffs, an employee who will bump an employee from anottnerdepartment will have to use nis bumping rights tor a job which he is capable of doing without training before using i to obtain a job where he would need training.
For the purposes of this Section, the divisions are as follows:
40
SERVICE DIVISION (2 departments):
Maintenance;
Snipping;
15.09	RULES FOR BUMPING
The rightto bump in the same departmnsirtt applies to employees who have at least seventy-five (75) days of seniority.
15.10	BUMPING IN THE PI ANT
A)	Ifwork resumes in their previous department within six (6) months following a bumping, employees who have used tneir bumping rights or who have been bumped must return to their previous job and department.
If the six (0) month period has expired since the bumping, the employee will then be entitled to cnoose between his old and his new job.
B)	Bumping/unsuccessful tryout
It is understoodthat if aftera training period resulting from a bumping or a recall an employee is not fully capable of doing the job, the employee wfil be laid oft
15.11	SPECIAL CASES
As regards employees who are unable to carry out their regular job for health reasons, following an occupational injury or illness covered by the C.S.S.T., the Errployerorthe employee may ask for a transfer to another job, firstly in his own department and afterwards in the plant. The employee may bump the least senior employee on the job and shift of his choosing in his department, provided that he has already carried out that Jobin a satisfactory manner or, if such is not the case, providedthat he would be able to do the work after a training period not exceeding fifteen (115) working days. In all these cases there must be a written agreement belween the Employer and the Unionto authorize such bumping.
41
15.12	TEMPORARY JOB CHANGE
It is understood that the job appearing on the
seniority listwill be the regular job of an employee.
A)	Employees transferred temporarily to a job other than their regular job for more tnan one regularshiftwill be paid the hourly wage applicable to such job orto his regular job, whichever is higher.
An employee may be asked to do another type of work if there is a lack of work on his own job or if the Employer has more important work to do, However, it is understood that the Employer will not replace an employee who has been transferred temporarily to a other than his regular job, unless the Employer has more important work to do and it is necessary that the equipment of the employee so transferred be maintained in operatfcn. The employee will cooperate with the Employerandgive a good performance.
15.13	TRANSFER FROM A UNION TO A STAFF
I f an employee is transferred outside the bargaining unit, henna/ keep his seniority inthe bargaining unit fora period not exceedinqtwelve (12) months. I f he does not return after twelve (12) months he will lose all of his seniority rights.
15.14	SENIORITY 11ST
A seniority listwill be posted in each department, indicating the name and seniority of each employee in this department as well as the length of his continuous service with the Employe*. The listwill be revised every six (6) months. Copies of these posted lists will be given to the Union promptly. Such a list will become official if uncontested through the grievance procedure after a period not exceeding thirty (30)days.
42
VWiere employees have the same seniority, their names will appear on this list according to their family name and in alphabetical order. This rule will always be usedto bneakequality of service between employees hired on the same day in order to determine the order of seniority.
15.15 RECALL PROCEDURE
Wien a permanent job opening occurs after employees have been laid off, and following application of Section 15.10. the Employer will recall, by order of seniority and without posting, the employees:
A)	who had the job in the same department at the time of ray-off
B)	who were in the same department at the time of lay-off, provided that they are capable of doing trie job without training;
C)	who were in the same department at the time of lay-off, provided that they are capable of doing the job based on the nequirementsset forth in Sections 15.04 A) or 15.04 B), as the case may be;
D)	afterwards, the Employer will post the job opening in accordance with Section 15.03.
E)	If the Employer cannot fill the vacancy pursuant to the foregoing paragraph, it will offerthe permanent job by order of seniority to employees havingbeem laid off pursuant to Section 15.04. Employees from other departments will then be entitled to apply.
Inthat case,the employee will bedeemedto have secured the Jobby posting and he will be subject to the provisions of this Agreement.
4 3
15.16 NOTICE OF CHANGE IN AN EMPLOYEE'SFILE ...........
It is the duty of employees to advise the Employer promptly of all changes in their addresses or telephone numbers, it an employee fails to carry out this obligation, the Employer will not be responsible if this employee does not receive a notice which may be addressed to him or if it cannot communicate with the employee in question.
15.17 SIMULTANEOUS TRAlMlMfi
The Employerwill not be required to train more than two (2) employees at any one time per department. If there are more than two (2) employees to be trained at the same time in the same department, the Employerwill respect seniority.
SECTION 16
ANNUAL PAID VACATIONS
16.00
For the first year of application of this Agreement, the prior practice consisting in closing the plant for two weeks In July will be maintained.
A An employee who, as of May 31 of each year, rlas completed less than a year of continuous service vafti the Employer is entitled to one (1) vacation day tor each month of continuous service, to the extent of ten (10) vacation days.
An employee who, as of May 31 nf year! has completed one 1) Y®ar ?' continuous service with the mpISySF fil entitled to two (2) weeks of vacation.
An employee who, as of May 31 of each year, nas completed five (5) years of continuous service with the Employer is entitled to three (3) weeks of vacation.
An employee who, as of Mar 31 of each year, has completed five (f 0) years of continuous service with the Employer is entitled to four (4) weeks of vacation.
44
B)	The Employer will provide to employees each year, no later than March 15, a vacation form on which tins/ will indicate the dates on which they would like to take their vacation. Employeeswho wait to take their vacation inthe summer period which for the purposes of this section is defined as June, July and August, will advise the Employer priorto April15.
The Employerwill post the vacation list no later than May 1st and will grant to employees who so desire and who qualify under paragraph A a maximum of three
(3)	weeks of vacation during the summer period.
C)	The Employer will attempt to allocate vacation according to the wishes <f the employees and their seniority. The Employer undertakes to release at least twenty percent (20%) of the employees of a department each week in tne summer period, ff feasible without interfering with the requirements of production, the Employer may, at his discretion, exceed this percentage.
D)	An employee may also-electto take up. to one week of vacation in non-consecutive days: he shall file his request with the Employer at least ten (10) days in advance. To this effect, the choice of vacation days shall be made after all other employees have made their choice for regular vacation weeks.
16.01
The years of continuousservice used to calculate the vacation pay to which an employee is entitled, in accordance with Section 16.00, will be calculated as at May31 precedingthe annualvacation.
45
16,02
Every, employee who wishes to postpone his vacation may do so, provided that he does not request the dates already chosen by another employee in accordance with the provisions of Section 16.00 of this Agreement
Moreover", he must obtain the written approval of his foreman at leastfifteen (15) days pnorto the time to which he would like to postpone his vacation.
16.03
Estery emplo ee who quits his job a- who is dismissed before his annual vacation will receive the percentage to which he b entitled according to the table below based on l~! ~~ ~	-j - -
i his length of service.
16.04
A)
B)
The total vacation pa/ which every employee is entitled to will be based on his continuous service with the Employer and calculated based on gross salary:
I-	3 Years
4-	5 Years
5-	10 Years
II-	13 Years 14-19 Years 20-22 Years
4% 5.25%
23-24 Years 25 Years am
and +
2We
2	We 3We__
3	Weeks 3 We 4We
If an employee is absent because of sickness, accident or maternity leave during the reference year and if this absence has the effect of reducing the annual holiday pay to which he is entitled, he will be entitled to an amount equal to double (if he has one (1) year but less than five (5) years of continuous service) or triple (if he has five (5) years of seniority or more) the average weekly salary earned during the period that he worked. The employee who has less than one year of continuous service is entitled to this amount in proportion to the vacation days accrued by him.
46
16.05
The vacation pay which is due to each employee according to the proportionate rates specified in paragraph 16.02 will be given to the employee at the same time as his last negularpay precedingthe vacation.
SECTION 17
CONTRIBUTIONS TO GROUP INSURANCE
17.00
The Employer and the Union agree that employees will be entitled to the benefitsof the group insurance in the mannerand subjectto the conditions outlined below.
The two (2) parties agree that employees will be insured by me group insurance plan described below.
This plan will be administered by an insurance company to be determined hereinafter referred to as the "Insurer". Any future change cf Insurerwill be made only by mutual agreement between the parties.
The insurance benefits will be outlined in the insurance certificate which will be issued In the name of the parties signing this Agreement, The Iwo (2) patties also agree on the following points:
A)	A committee cf four (4) members, two (2) of which being designated by each party, will be formed for the proper administration of the plan. The members of the committee may call experts if required.
It is understood that the members representing the Union on this committee nmay not come from the same department and must be members of the executive committee.
B)	This committee, unless there are major or urgent problems, will meet once a year more specifically at the end cf a contractual year in order to analyze the experience of the past year, as prepared, in the presence of representatives cf the Insurer.
47
C)	The two (2) parties will discuss with the Insurer^!! changes in the provisions of the master policy changes in benefits, changes which may affect the weekly premium or any other matter pertaining to the general administration of the insurance plan.
The Employer and the Union will advise the Insurer in writing of the only authorized representatives of the two (2) parties who may communicate with the Insurer.
A copy of all correspondence from the Insurer pertaining to the general administration of the plan must be transmitted to each of the too (2) co-signing parties of the master policy.
17.01
Any future change will be negotiated by the two (2) parties. It is understood that during the term of this Agreement the Employer will not be obliged to increase its contribution beyond the amounts specified in paragraph B.
A)	Provided that the Employer maintains its
•	premiumsat their current rate, the Employer
agrees to accept all changes in employee benefits, except for the salary insurance, which may not at any time exceed sixty percent (60%) of the employee's salary.
B)	The Employer agrees to maintain its contributions to the current groupinsurance and hospital plans on a 50-50 basis between the Employer and the employees. Should there be an increase or decrease during the term of this Agreement, adjustments will also be made on a 50-50 basis.
17.02
A) All employees will be eligible for the insurance plan described herein after having completed seventy-five (75) working days or continuous service for the Employer. It is understood that all new employees must become members of this insurance plan, failing which an employee who subsequently
48
deddesto become a memberof the plan win have to provide a proof of insurability for himself and his dependants.
B)	An employee who is absent from work for reasons such as illness, acddent, lay-off, leave of absence, suspension or maternity leave will be responsible for his share of insurance prerrSums during his absence.
An employee has to pay the Employer the required monthly contributions on a monthly basis. If an employee’ payments are more than one month late, the Employer will cancel such employees insurance, subject to a prior notice of seven (7) days sent by registeredmail.
C)	The Employer wi provide to employees forms authorizing deductions on their behalf, will make these deductions from the weekly salary of the employee, and will forward to the Insurerthe group premiums as well as all necessary information pertaining to invoicingand claims as required by the Insurer. The Insurer, through the Employer, will issue membership cards to all employees.
D)	Any excess contributions and/or refunds of premiums will be deposited in theaccountof the beneficiaries of the group insurance. Such sums can only be used for the purchase of additional benefits, in addition to those which are already in place, or for readjusting the employee premiums. It is understood that the Insurer will provide to Ire two (2) parties signing this Agreement, once a year or upon request, a statement of the financial situation for the group in question.
E)	If a federal or provincial legislation on health insurance is adopted the parties hereto agree to renegotiate the group insurance plan presently in force.
49
SECTION 18 BULLETIN BOARDS
18.00
The Employerwill allowthe Union to use the bulletin board for notices. Such bulletin boards will be pfeced in locations agreed Id by the parties and will be used to announce the dates of meetings and other activities and information of the Union. Every notice must be initialled by the President or another officer authorized by the Union and all notices must have receivedthe prior approval of the Director of Human Resources of the Employer before being posted.
SECTION 19 HEALTH AND SAFETY
19.00
The Employer will continue to take the necessary measures in order to ensure the health and the safety of its employees on the work premises. The Union and the employees will support and cooperate with the Employer in its efforts to prevent accidents.
19.01	WORK ACCIDENT
A)	It is understood that an employee having suffered a work accident within the meaning of an Act respecting industrial accidentsano occupational diseases will receive his regular rate of pay for the time lost on the day of the accident.
B)	The Employer agrees to transport at its expense and in the most convenient and safe manner any employee who has suffered a work accident and who requires care outside the plant.
19.02
The Employer and the Union agree to form a health and safety committee to discuss ail matters relating to the health and safety of employees at work. The committee is composed of two (2) members designated by the Union and two (2) members designated by the Employer. This committee will meet during working hours, without loss of pay.
50
Minutes of the meetings of this committee will be kept in order to control the efficiency of this committee.
19.03
The Employer will provide the means of protection required by the lawin orderto protect its employees against injury.
The Employerwill also provide a first-aid kit on all shifts, in an appropriate location. The parties will also appoint a person having received training in health and safety matters on each shift.
19.04
The Employer has the right to send home any employee who shows up for work or works while intoxicated or underthe influence of drugs (r if he seems to present a dangerto his own security orto that of other employees or to the properly of the employees of the Employer.
19.05
The Employerwill supply one pairof rubber boots to each employee and replace them when necessary.
19.06
The Employer will supply each year one pair of boots to each employee who needsto wear them or safety reasons or fifty-five dollars ($55) annually for the purchase of these security boots. Under exceptional circumstances, the Employer may supply more than one pairof security boots per year provided that the employee shows that he needs a new pair and returns the old pair to his foreman.
SECTION 20
LETTERS OR OTHER AGREEMENTS
20.00
It is understood that during the term of this Agreement all lettersor other agreements attached hereto and signed by the two parties will form an integral part hereof provided that they have been filed in accordance with the provisionsof the Labour Code.
51
SECTION 21
SCHEDULE FOR WEEKEND SHIFTS
21.00
All provisions to the contrary specified elsewhere in this Agreement or appendixes thereto are subject to the following:
REQUIREMENTS AND INFORMATION
In order to meet the requirements of production and to respond more adequately to tbs requirementsof the market place, the Employer, when it deems It necessary, may introducethis schedule for any job, section of department, department or for the whole plant in accordance with the following provisions.
It is understood that the Employerwill inform the Union in advance.
Before institutingthe weekend schedule, it is also agreed that the Employerwill ensure that the employees work their normal work week in the department or in the departments concerned as specified in this Agreement.
The provisions cf the foregoing paragraph will apply at all times throughout the term of the weekend schedule.
Except for reasons beyond the control of the Employer, it is understood that every employee who works during the week on the same machines will not suffer any loss of salary for hours worked during tne week pursuant to the two (2) preceding paragraphs.
It is understoodthat the above provisions do not apply to employees who ordinarily work during the week and who have been laid off following transfers caused by the stoppage of a weekend shift.
M UUIMIliy pvnvu VI IlliVVIl ^ ■ v; VHJVi
21.05 PERSONAL LEAVE
It is understood that employees working on the weekend schedule will receive a wege equal to the wages lost if they have to absent themselves due to a death intheirfmmedlate family.
52
21.01
Employees who have been designated to work on the twelve (12) hour weekend shift will be entitled to two (2) periods of twenty (20) minutes each for meals in an authorized location at a time as close as possible to the middle of their shift. It is understood that their will be no Interruption of production.
Employees who have been designated to work on thefwelve (12) hourweekend shirt will be entitled to two (2) periods of ten (10) minutes each for nest in an authorized location during the shift It is understood that there will be no interruption of production.
21.02	WAGES AND OVERTIME PREMIUM
A)	The work week is comprised of thirty-two (32) hours divided in two days of twelve (12) hours on Saturdays and Sundays and one day of eight (8) hours during the week.
It is however understood that the parties must agree on the jobs to be done during the eight (8) hours to be worked during the week.
This eight (8) hour-day during the week will be offered and chosen by seniority among the weekend employees.
Employees will receive in excess of their basic rate a premium of 33.3% for hours worked on Saturdays and Sundays and their regular rate for the eight (8) hour day scheduled during the week in accordance with this section.
if a weekend employee works outside of his normal hours, he will receive an overtime premium as provided for in this Agreement for all hours so worked.
53
B)	If the Employer cannot provide any work during a period of time due to a machine breakdown or lack of work for reasons beyond its control, the salary of the employee will be maintained and the Employer will be entitled to assign the employee to another job during that period provided that this does not result in any layoff among week employees.
21.03	SHIFT PREMIUMS
It is understood that shift premiums will be as set forth I n this Agreement
21.04	JOB OPENINGS
A)	Upon execution cf this Agreement, the Employerwill fill the positions in accordance with the provisions of Sections 15.03 and
15.04	of this Agreement and the same will apply to future positions.
B)	Ifthe employeeso burrped does not want to or cannot exercise his bumping rights on a weekend shift within his department, he will be entitled to bump the least senior employee on this lob within his department on the week shift of his choosing, with a training period of fifteen (15) days.
Failing this, an employee who has one (1) year of seniority maybump a less senior employee doing the same Job in another department on tne shift of his choosing with a training period cf fifteen (15) days.
21.05	PERSONAL LEAVE
It £ understood that employees working on the weekend schedule will receive a wage equal to the wages lost if they ham to absent themselves due to a death in their immediate family.
54
21.06	LEGAI HOLIDAYS
A)	If a legal holiday within the meaning <f Section 12 falls on a scheduledworking day of the employee, the employee will receive his regular basic rate, including a premium if applicable, for the number cf normal daily hours.
B)	If a bgal holiday falls on a non-scheduled day or the employee, the employee will receive an amount equal to eight (8) hours at his regular basic rate.
C)	if a legail holiday falls on a weekend or on a scheduled week day on which the employee works, he will receive an addition to the compensation provided for in A) a premium of fifty percent (50%) in excess of his basic rate for the hours worked during the legal holiday.
D)	To be entitledto be paid for legal holida an employee must have worked on working days preceding and following the holiday.
21.07	PROBATIONARY PERIOD
For employees working the weekend schedule the probationary period win be sixty (60) working days duly worked.
21.08	WORKING DAYS
For the purposes of the weekend schedule, the term "working day" means Saturdays and Sundays and the days scheduled in the week which completes the work schedule of an employee, except for the legal holidays, mentioned in Section 16 and the days during which a department is closed a- when an employee is not required to report for work.
55
2,09 TMrnMP '
A) For tie purposesof applying the prescribed time limits in the grievance and arbitration procedureprovidsd for in Section 5, working days will be those specified in 1.05 A) by adding two (2) days to the first step.
21.10	TEMPORARY JOB OPENINGS
Underthe weekend schedule, and for the purposes of Section 15.07, a temporary job opening will be considered as such if the Employer has been informed that an employee will be temporarily absentfortwelve (12) or more days. However, the procedure established in Section 15.03 B) will apply.
21.11	CURTAILMENT OF OPERATIONS
In the event of a curtailment of operations within a department a department section or on a lob, it is understoodthat the weekend schedule will not be interrupted therein until a full weekend shift has been completed.
Employees so subject to lay-off maybe assigned to another job in accordance with the provisions of Sections 15.08, 15.09. 15.10 and 15.15 of this Agreement which shall be amended as follows:
15.08 aj c)


days to fifteen (15) days; Lay off - more than
da	<15>
- %l training period of five (5) days is changed to four ( 4 ) days:
• the training period of one (1) day per year of seniority up to fifteen (15) days is changed to one (1) day per year of seniority to the extent of twelve (12) days.
15.09	Seventy-five (75) days of seniority is changed to sixty (60) days.
56
21.12	SIX HOURS OF PAY
Any employee who has not received prior notice that his sendees are not required and who reports for work at the usual time and on his regularjob, may be assigned by the Employer to do six (6) hours of work for which he will be paid the equivalent of six (6) hours of his regular pay or if this happens on his scheduled day of the week, the employee maybe assigned by the Employerto do four (4) hours of work for which he will be paid the equivalent of four (4) hours of his regular pay.
If, however", no work has been assigned to this employee, he will be paid a minimum of six (6) hours at his regular rate ifthis happens during his regular Saturday and/or Sunday shift or four (4) hours If this happens on his scheduled day of the week, except if, upon his arrival at the plant, it is not possible to assign him to his regular work for reasons beyondthe control of the employer, such as steam or powerfailure or fires.
21.13	WORK ACCIDENTS
Under the weekend scheduleemployees working on a weekend shift who suffer a work accident (fourteen (14) first days), will be compensated according to the same formula as employees on a five (5) day basis.
In such event a weekend of work is equal to a normal week and the formula to calculate the compensationwill apply.
21.14	OTHER MATTERS
All other matters which are not referred to in these provisions pertainingto the weekend schedule will be discussed and resolved between the parties at the time of the introduction of this schedule, taking into account all existing laws.
SECTION 22
NEGOTIATING COMMITTEE
22.00
The negotiating committee will be composed of a maximum of five (5) members selected at the general meeting, who mustbe regularerroioyees of the Employer and have at feast one (1) year of
57
The members of the negotiating comm ee will be composed of members of the executive committee.
22.01	PAYMENT AT THE NEGOTIATING TABLE
The Employer agrees to pay 50% of the salaries in connection with meetings held to negotiate the collective agreement when such meetings are part of the regular shift of the employee, subject to the following conditions:
A)	The employee will receive the hourly rate applicable to nis category as Indicated on Appendix "A" this Agreement.
B)	No overtime, premium will be paid to a member of the negotiating committee for days spent in negotiations.
C)	The parties agree that a maximum of five ^members will be released to take part in the negotiations.
D)	The Union will paythe remaining50% of the salaries of the Members of the negotiating comnittee. However, the Employer agrees to administer these Hinds. The Employer will pay these amounts weekly to the members of the negotiating committee. Thereafter, the Employerwill deduct monthly thorn all amounts due to the Union the sums so paid and will add 22% to the normal gross wage.
E)	The Employer may fill the positions concemedin the mannerit deems the most practical.
F)	If the Employer cannot fill the positions in a satisfactory manner, because of problems resulting, for example, from the fad thatlwo or more employees from the same department were released at the same lime, the Employer and the Union should agree on the employees to be released.
58
22.02	PRINTING OF BOOKLET
The Employer undertakes to have this Agreement printed and will provide one (1) copy to each employee in accordance with Section 3,08. The Employer will also provide the Union a number of extra copies as requested by the Union.
This Agreement will be drafted in French and English and will include as Appendixes the list of departments and jobs with the corresponding rates of pay. The French version will be the official version. The Union and the Employerwill share the printing costs.
SECTION 23 CORRESPONDENCE
23.00
Notices and other correspondence will be sent, when addressedto the Union, to its President and when addressed to the Employer, to the Director of Human Resources.
SECTION 24
MATERNITY LEAVE
24.00
At least three (3' weeks prior to her departure, an empJoyee must give written notice to the Employer of its Intention to avail herself of a maternity leave and specifying the date on which the leave will start and me approximate date of her return to work. This notice must be accompanied by a medical certificate certifying the pregnancy and indicating the expected delivery date,
B) Subject to Sections 24.08,24.09 and 24.12, an employee k entitled to a continuous maternity leave determined by her, not exceeding eighteen (18) weeks, except if the Employer, at ner request, agrees to a longer penod.
59
24.01
The notice may be less than three (3)weeks if the medical certificate cartifiesthat the employee has to stop working within a shorter period of time.
24.02
The distribution of the maternity leave before and after delivery is at the discretion of the employee, within the following time limits:
1)	The employee may step working at any time starting form the sixteenth (16th) week before the expected delivery date. However, starting from the sixth (6th) week before the said crate, the Employer may demand from a pregnantemployee who is stili working in writing, a medical certificate certifying that she is able to work; If the employee rails to provide such certificate to the Employer within eight (8) days, the Employer rnay require her to start her maternity leave at once by sending her a Witten notice, with grounds, to that effect.
2)	The date of return to work is determined based on the date on which the employee left work. The duration of the leave is eighteen (18) weeks. If the employee wants to come back to work before this time period, she has to produce a medical certificate showing that she may do so.
3)
ff the delivery took place after the expected date, the employee is automatically entitled to an extension of her matemfty leave equivalentto the period by which she is late. This extension does not apply if the employee can otherwise have at least two (2) weeks of maternity leave after the delivery.
24.03
A) Subject to the provisions of this Agreement, dunng the maternity leave, an employee continues to accrue her seniority and remains covered by the life insurance, medication and hospital,
60
B)	An employee on maternity leave remains covered by the benefits in effect at the work place, providedthat she continues to make regular contributions to these benefits, cf which the Employeralso pays his share.
24.04
An employee who forwards to the Employer, before the expiry date of her maternity leave a medical astLficatecertilyingthat her state of health crthat of herchild demands it, is entitledto an extension of the maternity leave up to six (6) weeks.
24.05
At the end of the maternity leave, the Employer must reinstate the employee in her regularjob and grant her the benefits she would have enjoyed had she stayed at work.
24.06
An employee must give written notice to the Employer of her intention to return to work at least two (2) weeks before such date, failing which the Employer is under no obligation to take back the employee until two (2) weeks after she reports back to work.
24.07
When a natural miscarriage or a legal abortion takes place before the starf of the twentieth (20th) week preceding the expected delivery date, the employee is entitled to a maternity leave without pay not exceeding three (3)weeks.
24.08
If an employee is delivered of a stillborn child after the start of the twentieth (20th) week preceding the expected delivery date, her maternity leave, without pay, will end five (5) weeks after the date of the delivery.
61
24.09
If the regular job of the employee no longer exists upon her return to work, the Employer must give her all the rights and privileges she would have had at the time the job was abolished, had she been at work.
24.10
Ifthe Employer implements a lay-off, which would have Includedthe employee had she been at work, the employee will retain the same rights as these employees who were actually laid off, in particular with respect to retiring.
24.11
In order to be entitled to a maternity leave, an employee must have worked twenty (20) weeks for the Employer within the twelve (12) months preceding the date of the start of her maternity leave ana be employed by the Employer on the day precedingthe notice required under Section 24.00.
24.12	BIRTH CR ADOPTION
An employee may be absent from work for five (5) days in connection with the birth or adoption of a child. The first two (2) days of absence are paid if the employee is credited with sixty (60) days of continuous service. This leave maybe divided into days at the request of the employee. It may not be taken more than fifteen (15) days after tne child arrives at the residence of nis father or mother. The employee must advise the Employer as soon as possible.
24.13	PARENTAI LEAVE
The father and the mother of a newborn child and a person who adopts a childwho has not reached the age of com ulsory school attendance are entitled to a parental gave, without pay, notexceedingthirty-four (34)consecutive weeks.
This provision does not apply to an employee who adopts the children of his spouse. Tne parental leave may begin at the earliest on the date of birth of the child or, in the case of adoption, on die day the child is entrusted to the employee pursuant to
62
adoption procedure orthe day the employee leaves his work to travel to a place outside Quebec where the child will be entrusted to him. It shall end no laterthan one year afterthe birth or, in the case of adoption, one year after the child was entrusted to the employee.
SECTION 25
NOTICE OF TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT OR LAY-OFF
AND CERTIFICATE OF EMPLOYMENT
25.00
The Employer must give written notice to an employee Defore terminating his contract of employment or layinghim off for six (6) months or more. The notice shall be of one week if the employee is credited with less than one year of continuous service, two weeks if he is credited with one year to five years of continuous service, four weeks if he is creditedwith five years to ten years of continuous service and eight weeks if he is credited with ten years or mere of continuous service. The notice of termination of employment given to an employee vthie he is laid-off is null, except in the case of employment which does not normally last fix- more than six months each year due to seasonal factors. This Section does not have the effect of depriving an employee from a right granted to him by another legislation.
25.01
Section 25.00 does not apply to an employee:
A)	who has less than three months of continuous service;
B)	whose contract for a fixed term or specific undertaking expires;
C)	who has committed a serious fault:
D)	whose contract of employment expires or who is laid-off as a result of a fortuitous event.
63
SECTION 26	___
INDEMNITY IN LIEU OF NOTICE
26.00
Exceptin cases where an employee hascximmitted a serious fault or in the case of a fortuitous event, if the Employerfails to give notice as provided for in Section 25, the Employer must pay the employee, upon his departure, an indemnity in lieu of notice which is equal to the salary the employee would have received during the period equivalent to that of the notice.
26.01	CERTIFICATE QF EMPLOYMENT
An employee who has been dismissed or who has been laid off for at least six (6) months nmav request that his Employer give him a certificate of employment stating exclusively the nature and the length of his employment, the starting and termination dates, as well as the name and address of the Employer. The certificate of employment may not referto the quality of the work orthe behaviour of the employee.
SECTION 27
RED CIRCLE RATES
27.00
Every employee who has received a red circle rate will continue to receive it throughout the term of this Agreement, unless this Agreement provides for a higher rate for the job or if the employee changes
jobs.
28.00
The Employerandthe Union agree that for- minor maintenance and repairwork intne plant which can be done without a contractor, the Employer may retaim employees who have been laid off and who are qualified to do the work before hiringsomeone from the outside.
64
28.01
For installing new machines or for majorchanges, the Employer may, for- a temporary period, hire tradesmen from the outside as long as this does not prejudice the tradesmen who are actually working tor the Employer.
28.02
A)
B)
C)
D)
When an employee receives equipment or tools from the Employer, he has to:
1.	acknowledge receipt;
2.	be personally responsible for them.
Such piece of equipment or tool may be changedwhen the foreman determines that it is unusable. An employee cannot get a replacement unless he produces the one that has become unusable in exchange, except undertbe circumstances spectfiea in Section 28.02 C).
Each employee has a responsibilityto put his tools under lock and key and no claim for tools stolen outside of working hours will be considered unless there is evidence of forcible entry or it is clear that it is not the fault of the employee that the tools were stolen.
Every employee who is unable, except for reasons beyond his control, to produce equipment or tools providedto him by the Employer will have to pay for them.
SECTION 29 GROUP RRSP
29.01
It is understoodthata group RRSP will be instituted within three (3) months following execution of this Agreement, the choice of the manager of the RRSP and any future changes will be made by mutual agreement between the parties.
65
For and on behalf cf each employee having completed his probationary period, and having specificallyauthorizedito do so and upon a two(2) months notice, the Employer will withhold ana forward monthly and directly to the manager of the group RRSP the amount of the optional contribution indicated by the employee, which amount may be changed no more than twice a year.
As of March 1st, 1998, the Employerwill make a contribution equal to that of the employee to the extent cf 0,5% of the regular hourly rate of all worked hours (including legal holidays and vacation) during the reference year from March 1st,
1998	to February 28, 1999,
As of March 1st, 1999, the Employerwill make a contribution equal to that of the employee to the extent of 1.5% of the regular hourly rate of all worked hours (including legal holidays and vacation) during the referenceyearfrom March 1st,
1999	to February 28, 2000.
The employee may not withdraw his contributionsto the RRSP as long as he is in the employment of the Employer. If the employee withdraws his contribution to the RRSP, the manager tf the RRSP must advise the Employer within fifteen (15) days. The Empbyerwill then cease irrevocably and finally to contribute to the RRSP on behalf of sucn employee.
SECTION 30
TERM OF AGREEMENT
This Agreement will come into effort upon execution and will terminate on February29,2000.
30.01
Even though the terms and conditions of this Agreement will be in force until February29, 2000, it is agreed that each party may at any time as and from December 1st, 1995 ask for a new collective agreementto be negotiated.
66
30.02
It is understood between the two parties that this Agreement will remain in force as long as a new collective agreement will not have been signed between the parties.
30.03
Increasesaranted on the hourly rate of each category will be the following:
March 1st, 1996: thirty (30)cents
March 1st, 1997: twenty (20) cents
March 1st, 1998: twenty (20) cents
March 1st, 1999: thirty (30)cents
The Employeralso agrees to apply the hourly rates provided for herein retroactively to March 1st, 1996 and 'agrees to pay to employees the amount resulting therefrom by separate cheque on the Thursday following the date of return to work.
MISCELLANEOUS
SMQK1MS
The Employer will continue to provide proper places for smoking in the plant.
JOBS TQ PE RELEASED
The Employerwill provide before July 3,1996 a list of jobs to be released pursuant to Section 21.
LETTER AGREEMENT PERTAINING TO
The Employer is granting the request of the Union to this effect andagrees to no longer appoint an employee as shift coordinators and from the execution of this Agreement However, to be fair to the employees who held that position before execution of this Agreement, and in recognition of their contribution, it s agreed that these employees will be entitled to keep their title and the corresponding salary wfriile receiving the wage increases providedfor in this Agreement as long as they will remain shift coordinators.	If a shift
67
coordinators is promoted or transferred to another lei),or if he is secured another position by posting, lie will no longer be able to return to the position of shift coordinators.
t
This Agreement has been signed on July 3,1996 by the duly authorized representativesofthe parties.
APPENDIX "A"
DYEHOUSE
DYER..................
SHIPPING
SHIPPER................
SAMPLEPERSON..........
MAINTENANCE
MECHANIC- FIRST CLASS AND SHEAR REPAIRMAN
AMENDMENTS
comprises:
previously:
previously:
comprises:
-	Dyer Kettles
-	Dyer Jets
"Shipping and Sampleperson' "Shipping and Sampleperson"
Mechanic - First Class , ' Mechanic - First Class and
68
69
SLIVER KNITTING
KNITTER HELPER................. previously	"General Helper"
SHOP MECHANIC AND	comprises:	Lead Shop Mechanic and Yam
YARN STOCKMAN.................. Stockman*'
(**Mr. Gdrald Daianault's hourly wage wfl be raised on the basis of $0.62 per hour above the regular hourly wage of a "Shop Mechanic and Yam Stockman' as long as he keeps such job.)
LOOP KNITTING
LOOP KNITTING ............... previously:
LOOP FINISHING.
TENTERFRAME OPERATOR •	comprises:
FOAM.........................
CALENDAR OPERATOR............ previously:
"LATCH NEEDLE FINISHING"
- Tenterframe Operator-Foam
• Tenterframe Operator (Not Foam)
'Tumbler- Calendar"
70
88i«m^TO,,AN.D
NAPPER OPERATOR.... comprises:
appera
appers
appers
APPENDIX "B"
SHIFTS AND HOURS
07:00 to 15:00: Meals:
1:30-12:00 2:00-12:30
: 11:00-11
Second Shift
15:00 to 23:00: Meals: 17:30-18:01 18:00-18:30 18:30-19:00
Breaks:
00-21:10
10-21:20
20-21:30
Third Shift
£
-:00 to JJMO:
reals: 02:00 - 0!
02:30 - 01__
03:00 - 03:30
iaks: 05:00 - 05:10 15:10-05:20 5:20 - 05:30
72
MAINTENANCE First Shift
0 :00 to 15:00: NotRotaing deals: 11:00 -11:30 ere 11:30-12:00 12:00 -12:30
Second Shift
s: 09:00-09:10 09:10 - 09:20 09:20 - 09:30
n;?8:ip
18:30 • 19:00	21:20 - 21:30
Third Shift
23:00 to 07:00: Not F 03:00 - 03:30
Saks: 05:00 - 05:10 05:10 - 05:20 05:20 - 05:30
73
SHIPPING
EiEsLSfaifi
I to 15:00:. Not Rotatjnc
/leafs: 11:00 -11:30 BrS 11:30 -12:00
12:00-12:30
09:00 - 09:10 09:10-09:20 09:20 - 09:30
Second Shift 15:00 to 23:00:
23:00 to 07:00: N Meafs: '	“
21:20-21:30
02:00-02:.. 02:30 - 03:00 03:00 - 03:30
____ 05:10
05:10-05:20 05:20 • 05:30
liETTEff QF-AfiREEMENT PERTAINING TO.THE INSTITUTION OF ROTATING SHIFTS FOR THE SLIVER FINISHING
In order to institute a rotation between the first and second shifts of the sliver finishing, a maximumtime period of twelve (12) months (from June 1st, 1996 to June 1st 1997) will be allocated so as to allow for the proper training of the employees presently assigned to the second shift.
74
1)
2)
APPENDIX "C"
JOB DESCRIPTION
GENERAL HEI PER:
The task of the General Helper consists primarilyin performing the handling related to the operations.
FLOATER:
The task of the Floater consists primarilyin replacing missing operators on production operations.
75
FjNISHING (SLIVER)
Helper - Tehterframe'!! Tenterframe Operator .
Packager ............
Finishing Line Operator
Floater ......;......
Inspector............
Crop Shear Operator ..
Tumbler Operator.....
Leadhand and Floater .
General Helper*......
Bagman ..............
1110.52
1110.52 1110.94 1110.62 1110.77 1110.82 ! 110.62 1110.72 I >10.57 1111.01
1110.52 1110.62
1110.82 ! 110.82 ! 111.24
1110.92 1111.07 1111.12 ! 110.92 1111.02 1110.87 1111.31 1110.82
1110.92
1111.02
1111.02
1111.44
1111.12
1111.27
1111.32
1111.12
1111.22
1111.07
1111.51
1111.02
1111.12
1111.22
1111.22
1111.64
1111.32 1111.47 1111.52
1111.32 1111.42 1111.27 1111.71 1111.22
1111.32
1111.52
1111.52 1111.94 1111.62 1111.77 1111.82 1111.62 1111.72 1111.57 1112.01
1111.52 1111.62
76
i+hSe-
! H1.27 ! 111.45
611.72
611.35
! >12.41 I >11.66 < >12.16 ! > 11.57 ! >11.75
! >11.65 ! >12.01 ! 511.82 ! >1 .62
1511.62
1511.62 1511.71 J 511.82 1511.52 1511.82 $11.66
$12.02
$11.65
I DYEHOUSE | Piero Mover and Dyer 	 Raw Stock Dyer	 Piece Mover	 Dye Weigher	 Leadhana and Greige Prep	 Dyer*			 Leadhand and Floater 		s J ] I < i j	510.87 110.87 110.57 110.94 110.75 110.87 111.01	J j j J j j j	>11.17 >11.17 510.87 611.24 >11.05 111.17 ;11.31	J j j I j J j	611.37 >11.37 511.07 >11.44 511.25 511.37 511.51	» j j J i I ]	511.57 511.57 511.27 511.64 511.45 511.57 511.71	a j I I j j j	511.87 511.87 511.57 511.94 511.75 511.87 5212.01
MIXING ROOM Leadhand, Stockroom Operator. Mixers	 Extractor		$11.01 $10.62 $10.57		$11.31 $10.92 $10.87		$11.51 $11.12 $11.07		$11.71 $11.32 $11.27		$12.01 $11.62 $11.57 |	
CApDROQM Mecnanic	 Carder 	 Leadhand and Mechanic		$10.82 $10.62 $11.01		$11.12 $10.92 $11.31		$11.32 $11.12 $11.51		$11.52 $11.32 $11.71		$11.82 $11.62 $12.01	
Lea§fan?and Shipper	 Shipper*	..	 SamDleDerson*		$11.13 $10.92 $10.92		■	111.43 111.22 111.22	$11.63 $11.42 $11.42		$11.83 $11.62 $11.62		$12.13 $11.92 $11.92	
i rucKer ana general Helper.. .. Leadhand and Mechanic ......
Mechanic- First Class and Shear
Repairman*.............
Mechanic - Second Class and
fcRi™fbwss::::::::
»»^t"c!an:::::::::
General Helper...........
EteSranta Mechanic and Shear Repairman ............. ■ ■
SLIVER KNITTING
RniHers .................
Knitter Hebert ..........
§ hop Mechanic and Yam...
tockman* .................
Leadhand and Floor Mechanic ..
Floor Mechanic...........
Lead Mechanic............
$12.30
1111.56
1111.31 1111.76 1111.11 1111.04
1111.31
$12.41
$11.44
$13.06
$12.60
611.64
613.2R
$12.80
$1
, 1.86 1111.61 1112.06 1.41 1.34 1.61
2.06 1.81 2.26 * 1-61 1111.54 1111.81
111
It
It
It
$12.71
$13.00
1112.26 : 112.01 1112.46 1111.81 1111.74 1112.01
$13.30
'12.56
12.31

610.66
610.57
10.96
10.87
$10.91
1111.68
1111.06 1111.“
.68
1111.21
1111.98 l 111.36
1111.98
