CONVENTION COLLECTIVE DE TRAVAIL
COLLECTIVE LABOUR AGREEMENT
et/and
LES OUVRIERS UNIS DES TEXTILES D'AMERIQUE - C.T.C.
UNITED TEXTILE WORKERS OF AMERICA - C.L.C.
LOCAL 137
Huntingdon, Quebec
\7ALABLE JUSQU'AU 2 MAr 1993. IN FORCE UNTIL MAY 2ND 1993.
COLLECTIVE LABOUR AGREEMENT
between
CLEYN & TINKER (1989) INC
Plants No. 1,2,3,4,5,6
Huntingdon, Quebec
hereafter called the "EMPLOYER" of the first part
and
THE UNITED TEXTILE WORKERS OF AMERICA (C.L.C.)
Local 137 for plants 1,2,3,4,5,6
of Huntingdon, Quebec'
hereafter called the "UNION" of the second part.
ARTICLE 1
PURPOSE
The parties have agreed that the general purpose of t h i s agreement is to promote the mutual interest of the Company and its employees, to provide for the operation of the plants under methods which will further to the fullest extent possible the safety and welfare of employees and the economy of operations, quality and quantity of output, clealiness of plant, protection of property.
ARTICLE 2
RECOGNITION
The Company recognizes the Union as the sole bargaining agent for all employees in accordance with the Law of plants No. 1,2,3,4,5,6 with the exception of off ice employees.
1
■ ARTICLE 3
EMPLOYEES
3:00 The term 11 EMPLOYEE! S)" whenever found in the present agreement shall designate the workers for which the Union is certified.
When in the present collective agreement the masculine pronoun is used, this signifies and includes the feminin pronoun wherever applicable.
ARTICLE 4 UNION DUES
4;00 As a condition of employment all employees shall sign an authorization form in duplicate, enabling the Company to deduct the Union dues from their pay as stipulated by the Union.
These Union dues will be deducted once an employee has completed his first full working week. These deductions as well as the duplicate authorization form,
will be forwarded to the agent designated by the Union.
4:01 Authorization forms will read as follows:
CLEYN & TINKER (1989) INC.
the undersigned, hereby authorize ny employer to deduct from my pay the
required amount, for any Union dues to the United Textile workers of America, to be paid to the agent designated by this Union".
Union dues shall be deducted from the employee's pay each week for 5 2 weeks yearly. The Company shall, when making the TP4-T4 Income Tax slips, indicate the
2
employee's total union dues deductions.
4:03 LIST OF EMPLOYEES:
As of the signing of the collective agreement, the Company will provide the Union with a list of all employees covered by the collective agreement. This list will include the employees' addresses, the dates of plant and Company seniority and will indicate their regular job.
This list will be revised in May of every year and a copy wi11 be sent to the Union.
ARTICLE 5
RESERVATION OF MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
The Union acknowledges that it is the exclusive function of the Company to:
a)	Maintain order, discipline and efficiency ;
b)	For just cause the Company
can hire, discharge, classify, transfer, promote, demote, reprimand
and suspend or otherwise discipline employees:
c)	Judge the skill,
knowledge, efficiency and all-round ability of individual employees.
Manage the industrial
enterprise in which the Company is engaged, and without restricting the generality of the foregoing to change or introduce machine processes and methods; to make time studies of and to
3
institute changes in work loads, job assignments,
methods of operation and work payment rates; to determine the products to be manufactured, processes of manufacture, and all other matters concerning the operation of the Company’s business.
It is understood that the piece rates mentioned in this contract are subject to change for technical improvements, change in job assignments, improvement or deterioration of the quality of material to be processed.
The Company reserves the right to discharge or demote any employees for any of the following reasons:
Drunkenness, incompetence, insubordination,absence without leave, smoking in prohibited areas, drinking intoxicating liquors while on duty, endangering his own life or safety and/or the life or safety of a fellow employee, violation of plant rules providing that the changes are posted 48 hours prior to the date they become effective, or Cor any other just cause,
5:04 The Company agrees that these functions will be exercised in a manner consistent with the provisions of the agreement and the collective bargaining rights of the Union.
ARTICLE 6
4
DISCRIMINATION
it is agreed cnat tnere will be no discrimination on behalf of both parties having taken part in this agreement as a result of past, present or future activities in negotiations, disputes, grievances or complaints.
It is also agreed that there will be no intimidation from the employees or their representatives towards the Company's representatives as well as no intimidation on behalf of the Company or its representatives towards the Union's representatives or its members.
Furthermore, the parties agree that there will be no discrimination against any employee because of his race, color, language, creed, religion, sex or handicap.
ARTICLE 7
STRIKES AND LOCKOUTS
7:00 There shall be no lockout by the Company, or strike, slowdown,sitdown or suspension of work, either complete or partial, by the employees, during the life of this agreement.
ARTICLE 8
UNION REPRESENTATION
8:00 DESIGNATION:
The Union shall designate from amongst the employees a representative per shift in each department to be known as a "Departmental steward".
8:01 FUNCTIONS:
5
This departmental steward's functions will be to consider all grievances or complaints which the employees of his department may bring to his attention and to proceed with these grievances or complaints in conformity with the grievance procedure established in this agreement.
8:02 ABSENCE OF AN EMPLOYEE FROM HIS JOB:
An employee shall not leave his working place to attend Union business without having obtained permission from his immediate superior beforehand. This permission will be granted for grievance procedure only and will not be refused without justification.
b)	In order to maintain past practices, the Company accepts to pay for hours incurred during meetings held for settlement of grievances when these are part of the regular shift of the employee concerned and when a minimum of one Company representative participates in the meeting.
However, the Company accepts to pay at straight time the Union representative or the employee concerned, whichever the case, as per his regular hourly rate or average hourly rate, whichever is applicable, for all hours incurred during meetings summoned by the Company, of the health and safety committee of each plant, of the grievance committee and also for negotiations for the renewal of the collective agreement and when a minimum of one representative of the Company participates in the meeting. However, all hours paid at straight time which are not part of the regular shift of the Union repressnta*
6
or the employee concerned, whichever is applicable,
will not be considered as worked for the purpose of overtime computation on a daily and weekly basis.
8:03 UNION REPRESENTATIVE
ABSENT FOR UNION
BUSINESS:
The Company will grant a leave of absence to any seven (7) Union executives from Cleyn & Tinker (1989) Inc. for out of town business, provided forty-eight (48) hours' notice is given. Such written permission shall not be unreasonably withheld.
8:04 LIST OF UNION
REPRESENTATIVES:
The Union agrees to keep on file with the Company an up-to-date list of names of the members of the Union shop Committee, and also the names of the stewards.
ARTICLE 9 PRODUCTIVITY
PART 1
STANDARD OF PRODUCTIVITY
The Union recognizes the right of the Company to establish, institute, modify or adjust, and to put into effect standards of productivity. These standards of productivity should he just and equitable and take into account the effort that may be expected of experienced workers having normal working capacities, and performing good quality work efficiently.
-T
b) In keeping with above, such just and equitable standards as established by the Company shall be recognized by industrial engineering principles, shall contain allowance for fatigue, rest and personal needs.
9:01 In agreement with the principles mentioned above, the Union agrees to cooperate with the Company to encourage a good efficiency of the employees by a reasonable level of productivity, according to the opportunity given by the Company.
9:02 The normal pace which shall prevail, whatever technique is being used to measure the time., is the rhythm where effective speed of an average man, walking without any load, in a straight line on level ground, at a speed of three (3) miles per hour, judgment of the speed of each element shall be made.
9:03 a> In accordance with the present clause of productivity, the Union acknowledges the right of the Company at any time to institute a bonus plan "Standard minutes" with a base rate of any 'operation actually paid hourly; to change the present piece work rates (with or without base rates) into "Standard minutes" system, with a base rate.
b)	Base rate represents job load at 100%,
Example :
100% job load =
125% earning opportunity.
8
PART 2
INTRODUCTION AND MAJOR CHANGES
9:04 This second part deals with the introduction of the bonus system "Standard minutes'" and also with major changes requiring a trial period.
a)	i, At the introduction of the bonus plan "Standard minutes", the base rate plus the production bonus proposed by t h e Company will be a minimum of 25 cents higher than the hourly rate of the occupation in effect at the time of introduction of the system when this job has always been paid at a regular hourly rate.
In the case of reintroduction of bonus plan where there is already an existing base rate or in the case of a job wher„$ the hourly rate is a result of obsolete bonus system, the base rate will be set in mutual agreement between parties.
When a job on bonus system "Standard. minutes" is reverted to a regular hourly rate, such rate will be determined based on the average of the employee or employees concerned.
Minimum: Will not be less than the base rate times 125%.
Maximum: Will not be greater than the base rate times 13.0%.
c)	If a change contemplated'by the Company concerning a wacie incentive plan occupation has to do with a revision of a measured work element or the addition of a measured work element or the complete
9
elimination of a measured work
element because of the installation of different machinery or if a piece work occupation is to be placed by the Company on the bonus system or if a new occupation is introduced on bonus system, these major changes require a trial period. The Company will meet the concerned employees in the presence of their local representative 10 days before its application, and the Union will be advised in writing of the nature of the change 5 days before its introduction.
9:05 The Company does not
undertake to guarantee any fixed amount of bonus payment, time standards and job assignments shall be so set as to provide the average experienced employee with an assignment which offers a bonus opportunity averaging 25% of the base rate. It is understood that there is no obligation on the Company to offer such a bonus opportunity when the assignment is not available or when the employee is not capable of handling such an assignment.
9:06 a) Any introduction or maj or change mentioned in 9 t 0 4
a)	and c) , will require a trial period of six (6) calendar weeks, (extendable) up to a maximum of three 13) calendar months. If, after
this trial period no disagreement or grievance i has resulted from this change in the ten (10) days following the end of the trial period, the change will be considered as being accepted.
10
b)	Within ten (10) days following the end of the trial period, the Company will convoke a meeting with the employees concerned in the presence of their Union local officials to discuss the results of the trial period. The Company will inform the Union in writing of the results of the trial period and also of the meeting. Failing to reach an agreement the Union will inform the Company and will request their time study specialist to verify the validity of the rate in dispute. In such a case it is understood that the Union has to make his time study specialist available for a meeting with those of the Company within ten (10 ) working days from the receipt of the results from the Company of the trial period. This period can be extended by mutual agreement. Saturdays, Sundays, statutory holidays and annual vacations.shall not be counted in delays of this clause.
All changes made by the Company remain in force during the period of dispute, and the employees concerned will be paid according to the new rates until final agreement of the two (2) parties.
If the results of the joint tests of the decision of arbitration bring an increase in the standard time value, a retroactive Compensation will be paid as of the date of the change.
Joint tests will be made by a time study specialist of the Company and a representative of the Union t o
11
settle the grievance on the change concerned, or to agree on a compromise. The extent of the joint tests called for may be determined by the parties by mutual agreement.
If the results of the joint tests are such as not to affect the original value or work load by plus or minus 3% or less, no change is to be made. If the results of the saidjoint tests affect the original value or work load by greater than plus or minus 3%, the value or work load will be so revised and put into effect. Any joint tests shall be of the same nature and to the sane extent as the tests upon which the change was originally based. The extent of the joint test called for may be revised by the parties by mutual agreement.
e) If the parties, after having completed the joint tests and having studied the results, cannot agree on the results of the said joint tests, the question w i II be submitted to step 3 of the grievance procedure and, in failing to reach an agreement at this step, the question will then be submitted to arbitration in conformity with article 10 of this contract.
9:07 During the trial period, the employees concerned w il I work under the new conditions and will be paid according to the new rates. An adjustment shall be reimbursed every three (3) weeks of the trial period if their average hourly earnings during the said period are inferior to their average hourly earnings of the
12
last thirteen (13) weeks preceding the trial period.
9: 08 The "hourly average earnings" wherever mentioned in this contract, denote the average hourly earnings of the last thirteen (13) weeks excluding overtime, shift
and all bonuses except the production.
PART 3
CONTROLLING AND ADJUSTING EXISTING RATE AND WORK LOAD
a)	The Union acknowledges the right of the Company to re-study, investigate and to adjust the incentive rates which yield earnings exceeding 35% over the base rate for new jobs studies or existing jobs.
b) Incentive rates or work loads can be re-studied and changed when they become loose or tight due to:
1• Addition or exclusion of an element of work.
2. Increase or reduction in frequency of end breaks or faults will be revised every three (3) months and adjusted if necessary,
3. A change in the weight of the supply, and finished package, in the speed of the machine, in the working methods, or any other unforseen change which would be recognized by the parties.
c) The Company and the Union agree that the control of rates mentioned at 9iQ9 a) and b> aims to maintain work
13
load and employees opportunity within set standards and to maintain fair and balanced rates on all the occupations.
9:10 The changes mentioned in 9:09 a) and b) will not require a trial period.
However the Company will inform the Union in writing of the nature of the proposed change, of the necessary explanations concerning such a change, and this, five (5> working days before its date of implementation.
When changes require a revision of rates, the production bonus will be calculated each week by using
the newly revised rates as well as the previous rates for a period of four (4) weeks.
When these new rates compared to the previous rates reduce the bonus opportunity on production, the employee will continue to be paid as per the old rates every week during the first four (4) weeks. Afterwards, he will be paid according to the new rates. The purpose of this procedure is to allow the employee to evaluate the change and to adapt himself to the new rate without loss of opportunity for the first four (4) weeks,
PART 4
a)	case where a 11
machines are stopped due to steam or power outage, fire, flood or any other reason of
any nature out of the Company's control, an employee working on incentive will he paid as per his base rate
14
times 115% during the'period where he remains idle.
In all other cases, the downtime rate applies on the portion of machines that are stopped and regular incentive rate continues to apply on the portion of. machines which remain in operation if a temporary transfer is inpossible, The downtime rate is specified on the list of incentive rates for each job.
9;12 a) When a machine breakdown occurs in "one man one machine" operation only, the operator may consent to aid the repair upon request by the management and be paid at his hourly average for the period he provides assistance to t h e mechanic. However, it is understood that such assistance has to be requested by the Company and voluntarily provided by the employee whose machine is under repair.
An employee who does not consent or is not: requested to aid shall receive his base rate only for the duration of the breakdown if a temporary transfer is impossible.
ARTICLE 10
GRIEVANCES AND ARBITRATION
In order to establish an orderly procedure for the handling of grievances and disputes, the Union and the Company will cooperate at all times for the general welfare and satisfactory disposal of all complaints, grievances, disputes, suggestions or representations advanced by either party.
15
It is the mutual desire of the parties to this agreement, that the complaints of employees be settled in the shortest time possible and it is understood that, before submitting a written grievance the employee must first discuss the complaint with his foreman. In such case, the employee has the choice to present himself alone or to do so in the presence of his Union representative if he wishes.
L0 :0 2 if an employee has a complaint that he was unable t o settle after discussion with his foreman, he may take up the matter in a written grievance in the manner and sequence that follows:
10:03 Step No. 1
Between the wronged employee and/or his departmental representative, in his absence by another union representative of the plant, and h i s foreman. All grievances must be handed in writing and the foreman shall render his decision in writing within three ( 3 ) working days following receipt of the grievance.
10:04 Step No. 2
a)	If within three ( 3 ) complete working days following the decision at step No. 1 the decision is not deemed satisfactory, the employee and/or its union Vice-president of the plant and in his absence by the union President of the local, must then submit the grievance in writing to the plant manager. After receiving the grievance, the manager shall render his decision in writing within three ( 3 ) full working days.
16
b)	If at this step, no meeting has already taken place between the plant manager and the union Vice-president of the plant, and in his absence by the union President of the local, one or the other of the parties can request to hold such a meeting with both parties, the foreman and the employee concerned, in order to try to settle the grievance before proceeding wi No. 3.
10; 05 Step No. 3
If within three (3) complete working days following the decision at step No, 2 the decision is not deemed satisfactory, the employee and/or its union VicePresident of the plant and in his absence by the union President of the local, must then submit the grievance in writing to the personnel and industrial relations manager. After receiving•the grievance in writing the manager shall render his decision in writing within three (3) full working days.
10:06 If within five (5) complete working days following the decision taken at step No. 3, the answer is not deemed satisfactory, the grievance will be referred to the "Grievance committee", consisting of representatives from the Union and the Company. This live (5) working days is renewable by mutual agreement. The grievance committee will meet maximum once (1) a month as needed.
10;07 GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
a)	The committee is formed of: - Company’s representatives:
L7
Personnel Manager, industrial engineering
Manager and plant managers, and by any other representative designated by the Management.
Union's representatives:
President of the local, Union Vice -president from each one of the plants and by the Secretary-Treasurer of the lcoal , They may be assisted by the business Agent of the local Union.
In the case where no "Tradesman employee" occupies one of the functions previously mentioned, a "Tradesman employee" representing them, could then be part of this committee.
b)	The function of the committee is to engage in the study, discussion and settlement of grievances and any other subject of common interest submitted to its attention by the representatives of one or the other of the parties.
c)	Each of the parties to the present''agreement will give in
writing to the other party the
general order of the questions which it wants discussed and this within the ten (10) working days which precede each meeting.
d) All decisions arrived at by the agreement, either at the grievance Committee or at a previous step of the grievance procedure shall be final and binding on the employees, the Union and the Company.
18
and every time
limits set in the present article are binding but may be prolonged by a written agreement between parties. However if the prescribed time limits are not respected by one party or the other, it will then automatically pass on to the next step unless the party who submitted the grievance renounces to this in writing.
10:09 COLLECTIVE GRIEVANCE
If two (2) employees or
more have a common grievance which they were unable to settle following the discussion held with the concerned foreman, they may raise their grievance in writing in the manner and order provided at articles 10 i 0 3 and following of the collective agreement.
Such a grievance must be signed by the employees bringing it forth.
10:10 PROCEDURE - ARBITRATION
In the event that the grievance or dispute cannot be satisfactorily settled by the methods outlined above, the matter shall be referred to arbitration. In such an event the parties must agree to refer the grievance to:
-	A single arbitrator
or
-	A hoard of arbitration composed of three (3) members, one selected by the
Union, one selected by the Company and a third member who shall be Chairman, chosen by the first two names.
9
In the event that the Company and the Union cannot agree
upon the choice of a single arbitrator or a Chairman, the Minister of Labour for the province of Quebec shall be called upon to name a single arbitrator or an impartial Chairman. The decision of the single arbitrator or of the arbitration Committee shall be rendered within seven (7) days after the hearing, but such a delay may be extended by one or at the most two (2) additional delays of seven (7) days each. The decision of the single arbitrator or of the said arbitration Board shall be final and binding upon all parties to this agreement.
The single arbitrator or the members of the arbitration Board cannot add to, change, modify or alter the terms of this agreement.
ARTICLE 11
TEMPORARY TRANSFERS
11:00 WHEN A TEMPORARY
TRANSFER IS REQUIRED TO FULFILL PRODUCTION NEEDS :
a) When the Company transfers an employee temporarily on an operation other than his own to fulfill production needs although the employee has sufficient work on his regular job, he w i I 1 be paid the highest of the three (3) following rates :
1.	His average hourly earnings (based on the last thirteen (13) weeks),
2.	The rate of the job to which he is transferred (on incentive or hourly).
>0
3, According to the average hourly earnings of employees working on his regular job, calculated weekly during the period of the transfer.
b)	The operator who is transferred on an operation paid on incentive will not acquire under any circumstance the average earnings made by the regular operators on the said operation. The temporary transfer is for a period not exceeding forty-five (45) working days.
In the case where the transfer involves less favorable working conditions for the employee, t h e Company will try to shorten this period. Following a request made by the employee, at the end of the forty-five (45) working days, the Company may assign when possible, another employee to the said temporary transfer.
11:01 OVERTIME WHEN A
TEMPORARY TRANSFER IS REQUIRED TO FULFILL PRODUCTION NEEDS:
When an employee is required to work overtime on an operation other than his own, after his regular shift hours, the payment of these overtime hours will be calculated based on the highest applicable rate as per 11:00 a).
11:02 ALL OTHER TRANSFER:
When a worker becomes redundant during his regular shift due to shortage of material, machine breakdown or any other reason, and if, he is not required by the Company to fulfill production needs, the employee can either punch out or accept a temporary transfer to another job if
21
there is one available. If he takes the job, the employee
shall accept the rate of this operat ion,
b> I fthe operation in question is on incentive, he will have the opportunity of earning wheat he can make at the job even if it is in excess of his o m average on his regular operation.
c> An operator transferred under these conditions will not drop below the base rate of the operation he has been transferred to. In the case where the employee has not worked on this job since six ( 6 ) months or more, he will receive as guaranteed minimum the base rate plus 15% during five (5) days in order for him to re-adapt himself on this job.
d)	In connection to this paragraph, both the Company and the Union are bound by article 18, in the first place, then the foregoing procedure can apply.
11:03 OVERTIME WHEN
TRANSFERRED TEMPORARILY:
When an employee works overtime hours on an operation, other than his own, after his regular hours according to conditions set out in 11:02, as well as an employee who Voluntarily accepts to work overtime on
another operation, the payment; of these overtime hours will be calculated based on the rate of the job to which he is transferred according to 11:02.
ARTICLE 12 SENIORITY
12
12:00 a) New employees will serve ,a probationary period of sixty (60) working days before acquiring seniority rights.
The two (2) working days of twelve (12) hours during the weekend are equivalent to three (3) working days of eight (8) hours during the week. In particular cases, the probationary period may be longer if at the Company's request an agreement is reached between the two (2) parties before the fifty-sixth (5 6th) day worked by the new employee. A copy of this agreement will he mailed to the Union. Once this period is completed, their seniority shall then date back to their last hiring date with the Company.
b> Exception rule to article 13:01 a). When a new employee is laid-off due to lack of work before having completed his approbation period of sixty (60) working days, and the duration of the lay-off exceeds the duration of service with the Company, he will be credited in seniority the number of days worked provided that the two (2) following conditions apply:
1. The Company's management
wishes to call him back.
2. The length of lay-off does not exceed six (6) months.
12:01 There are two (2) types of seniority, namely:
a)	Company seniority.
b)	Plant seniority.
12:02 DEFINITION OF SENIORITY a > Company seniori ty:
23
Is that which is accumulated while in the employ of the Company in any, department of any plant. The Company’s seniority prevails to determine the fringe benefits.
b> Plant seniority:
Is that which is
accumulated while in the employ of the Company in any department of any one plant. The plant seniority prevails in cases of promotion or layoff within the plant.
For the requirement of this contract the Company and the plants are defined as follows:
a) Company: Cleyn & .Tinker (1989) Inc.
#1: Top dyeing #2 s Conventional spinning
#3: Repco spinning #4: Weaving #5: Burling and
mending #6: Finishing
Pit.
Pit.
Pit.
Pit.
Pit.
Pit.
Each plant will post a seniority	L the
employees working in that plant. These seniority lists will contain the name of the regular job of each employee. The lists will be posted in a place permitting each plant employeeto verify his seniority. The list will be revised every four (4) months, e.g. the first (1st) c£ January, the first (1st) of May and the first (1st) of November of each year, A copy of the seniority lists of each plant will be sent to the Union when these are revised.
24
ARTICLE 13
LOSS OF SENIORITY
An employee's seniority shall be cancelled and his employment shall be terminated for any of the following reasons:
1. If the employee quits,
2.	If the employee is discharged and his discharge is not reversed through the grievance
or arbitration procedure,
3.	If the employee has been laid off and fails to return to work within seven ( 7 ) calendar days after he has been notified by the Company to do so through registered mail sent to the last address known by the Company,
4.	If the employee is absent from work for more than five (5) consecutive working days without providing a reason satisfactory to the Company for such absence,
5.	If the employee overstays a written leave of absence granted by the Company without securing an extension of such leave,
6. If an employee having
received a leave of absence works elsewhere he will lose all seniority unless he has a written permission from the Company to do such work.
An employee absent from his work for reasons of layoff, sickness and accident will lose his seniority and h i s employment shall be terminated when the period of absence reaches:
>5
The period of time equivalent to the length of his seniority at the beginning of his absence, in the case of an employee with less than eighteen (18) months seniority.
b)	Twenty-two (22) months in the case of an employee with eighteen (18) months but less than five (5) years seniority.
c)	Thirty (30) months in the case of an employee with five ( 5 ) years but less than fifteen (15) years seniority.
d)	Thirty-six (36) months in
the case of an employee with fifteen (15) years or more of seniority;
e)	If the absence is caused by
an accident at work or an industrial illness as covered by the Workmen’s Compensation and Professional Illness Act, the period of absence may reach:
1. Twenty-four (24) months in the case where the employee has completed his probation period of sixty (60) working days and has less than five (5). years seniority.
2~, Thirty-six (36) months in the case where the employee has five ( 5 ) years or more of seniority.
When an employee is absent from work for reason of sickness or accident for a period greater than three (3) working days and less than the absence period allowed at 13:01 a) , b), c), d), e), the Company will return him to his regular work subject to %he following conditions:
16
a)	He will supply upon request a medical certificate giving the reason of his absence and confirming that he may return to his regular work.
b)	He has the necessary
seniority,
c)	He has given notice to the Company of his intention to return to work at least forty-eight (48) hours prior to the commencement of the shift on which he is normally scheduled to work. When it is impossible for the employee to give such advance notice he will inform his immediate superior as soon as possible of his disposal to work.
1.3! 03 The Company can request from an employee a medical certificate in case of abuse cf frequent absences of three (3) days or less. When these absences are not justified, the employee is subject to disciplinary measures.
13:04 The Company nay grant leave of absence to any employee for a legitimate personal reason, Any person who is absent with written permission shall not be considered to have been laid-off and seniority will continue to accumulate during h i s absence.
13:05 TRANSFER OF AN EMPLOYEE OUTSIDE OF THE BARGAINING UNIT AND CONDITIONS FOR HIS RETURN :
a)	An employee who accepts an occupation outside of the bargaining unit will continue to accumulate all his plant and company seniority rights during twelve (12) months. During the three (3) first months the employee will continue to pay the union dues.
27
b)	If the employee returns to an occupation in the bargaining unit, either to his request or to the request of Management, before having completed the twelve (12) month prescribed period, he will retain all his accumulated plant and company seniority rights. It is agreed that in such case, the employee will return to the occupation he held at the time of his transfer provided his plant seniority allows him to. If his seniority does not allow him to return, he can then bump on another job an employee with less seniority.
c)	If the employee returns on an occupation on the bargaining unit after twelve
(12)	months, he will retain his company seniority and his plant seniority will be set at sixty (60) working days, this in order to allow him to precede employees which have not yet completed their approbat ion period. The employee concerned must return in priority in the plant where he has last worked while he was in the bargaining unit, in the case where this is not possible, he could then be considered in another plant where his services are required.
It shall be the duty of every employee to notify the Company promptly of any change of marital status, of
address and telephone number.
In order to exercise an effective control on changes and to maintain personnel files updated, the employees must complete once a year, a form to this effect confirming or correcting if need be, marital status, full address and phone number of each one.
28
Any notice sent by the Company to an employee at his last address as recorded in the records of the Company shall be sufficient and effective notice.
ARTICLE 14 DISCHARGE
When a discharged employee claims that he has been unjustly dealt with, he may ask for and receive from the Company the reasons for his discharge. If the Union judges that such a discharge is sufficient reason for a
grievance, it shall be directly taken up at step No.
3 of the grievance procedure outlined at article 10 of this agreement with the only exception that all discharge complaints must be submitted in the fifteen (15) working days following the dismissal, and if such a discharge is not deemed justified, the employee shall receive'full compensation for the time lost.
14:01 Adi disciplinary measure dating back more than twenty -four (24) months will be removed from the employee' s file and it will not be taken into account by the Company at any time.
ARTICLE 15
PROMOTION AND LAY- OFF
15:00 DEFINITION OF THE TERM
"VACANCY"
For the purpose of this clause, a vacancy may occur due to normal personnel turnover such as a person being retired, voluntary departure, death, promotion, dismissal, retrograded or transfer of employees to occupations not covered by this bargaining agreement, or to any other occupation
29
whenever required by an increase in the number of employees on said occupation.
PART 1 PROMOTION
15:01 POSTING PROCEDURE
a) All permanent vacancy which must be posted shall be for two (2) working days during the period from Monday to Friday. When the plant concerned operates with twelve (12) hour weekend shifts, according to schedule referred as "5/2", the notice of vacancy will remain posted on Saturday and Sunday.
In order to better control the minimum posting period of forty-eight (48) hours or ninety-six (96) hours whichever is applicable, dates and hours of the beginning and end of the posting will be specified on the job vacancy notice.
A copy of each vacancy notice will be given to the Union Vice-president at the end of the posting period, this same posting comprising of the name of the candidate who accepted the job will be sent to the Union's office at the earliest convenience.
b) PERMANENT VACANCY:
When a permanent vacancy is created on an occupation in the bargaining unit, it will be subjected to the above posting procedure.
The candidates who are interested in this vacancy must sign their names at the place reserved for this purpose on the posting. The employee who is absent for reasons of sickness, accident, maternity leave or €or any
iO
reasons j udged acceptable is eligible following his plant seniority to the posted vacancy. However, he must be able to return to work within thirty (30) working days following the limited date of posting, or within forty-five (45) working days in the case of an employee absent from work due to an accident at work or a professional illness, according to the Workmen's Compensation and Professional Illness Act. However, in the event that the job vacancy has not been filled and that there is no employee on probation period at the time when the candidate actively returns to work following the period mentioned above, whichever is applicable, then he will remain eligible to the vacancy.
Furthermore, the limits of time specified in the paragraph above do not apply in the case of employees absent from work according to provisions of the Health and Safety at Work Act regarding the preventive withdrawal of pregnant employees.
The preceding does not however prevent the Company from filling the vacancy until the
job is filled as per the posting procedure. This method of granting promotions will be respected in each
plant.
c) PERMANENT VACANCY with
possibility of cancellation
When the possibility of a permanent vacancy is anticipated on an occupation in the bargaining unit for reasons such as:	In the case where an
employee accepts a position outside of the bargaining unit, or an employee having
1
decided to take early retirement, or when training is
necessary in advance because of the length of the training period, or in the case of serious illness or serious accident or for any other reason offe ring a reasonable doubt of a permanent vacancy. Such a vacancy will be submitted to the permanent posting procedure such as referred to at 15; 01 a) and b) , Reasons justifying such a posting procedure will be specified on the notice.
However, this notice will be automatically cancelled if the reasons stated are not maintained. In such a case, employees being promoted shall return to the job they occupied before being promoted on account of this posting.
The selectionof the candidate shall be based on seniority,skill and aptitude required to perform the work. To judge the aptitude of the employee, it is understood that a suitableperiod of adaptation will be allowed unless the candidate had already an adaptation period within the last twelve (12) months fbr this job and was unable to qualify for the occupation, However, if the job was affected by major technical changes which autoinize the operation, the twelve (12) month period mentioned previously will not be considered. In a case where no candidate qualifies for the vacancy or if no employees have signed the notice of "vacancy", the company wi 11 hire a new employee to fulfill the "vacancy".
Approbation period at the time of promotion.
32
An employee promoted t o
another job by following the procedures at 15:01 and 15:02 is eligible to an approbation period varying according to the job. This working period cannot exceed sixty (60) working days unless a written agreement is reached between the plant manager and the . Union Vice-president of this same plant. This written agreement should take place before the fifty-sixth (56th) working day of the approbation period and a copy of the agreement will be mailed to the Union.
15:03 b) Decision period for an employee that qualifies himself.
If during the approbation period the Company feels that the promoted employee is well enough qualified to fulfill thejob satisfactorily, the concerned employee should be notified. Within the twenty (20) working days following this notice the employee shall random his decision if he stays on this job or if he prefers to return to his previous occupation. For means of control, the employee will sign a form to this effect*
When a temporary "vacancy" is foreseen to exceed forty-five (45) working days on an occupation i n the bargaining unit, a "temporary vacancy" notice will be posted for two (2) working days during the period of Monday to Friday. When the plant concerned operates with twelve (12) hour weekend shifts, according to the schedule referred as "5/2", the notice of job vacancy will remain posted on Saturday and Sunday in order to also cover employees working on these shifts. The choice of the applicant will be based on his
13
capability of filling the job
without training or with a minimum of training. The employee who obtained the job will be notified by foreman within the next five (5) days,
-	In the case where the temporary vacancy aims to replace an employee absent due to sickness, maternity, accident and/or absence with permission, the duration will correspond to the period of
absence o£ the regular employee and his name will be specified on the notice.
-	In the case where the temporary vacancy aims to cover a particular situation and/or to satisfy a production need, the duration
of the temporary vacancy will be specified on the notice according to an evaluation which may be made and a brief description of the nature of the work to be done.
Such posting of temporary vacancy will be revised by the parties in the six (6) months following its attribution.
b) When a "vacancy" posted as "temporary vacancy" becomes a "permanent vacancy", this same vacancy will be reposted as a permanent vacancy according to the procedures at 15:01 and 15:02.
When an employee is available to return to his regular job after an absence period, he goes back on the occupation he had before he left. The employee promoted temporarily to another job will be the first one to return to his previous job. Reasons for absence of an
J4
employee from his regular work can be:	maternity, sickness,
accident, lay-off, absence with permission, transfer temporarily to another occupation or any other reason judged to be acceptable.
d)	All new job created permanently and posted as a temporary job will be posted as permanent within a period not exceeding six ( 6) months after its attribution. It is also understood that the procedure provided at article 24:01 must be completed before proceeding with such a posting.
When this new job partially or totally eliminates existing jobs, the employees affected will be the first to be considered by order of seniority.
a)	Length of validity for a notice of vacancy:
The names of candidates eligible appearing on the notice of vacancy remain valid as long as the vacancy is not filled. When the length of time between the date of the posting and the date where the candidate did not qualify himself or refused to fill the job exceeds four (4) months, a second notice will be posted in order to provide an opportunity to employees having completed their approbation period to fill the vacancy before awarding the promotion to a new employee. When more than one (1) vacancy is created on the same occupation the number of required candidates must be specified otherwise each vacancy will be posted seperately•
5
If, during the
approbation period a lay-off occurs on the occupation where the employee was transferred in order to fill the job vacancy, he will return on his previous occupation while retaining for a period of six (6) months the right to return on the occupation he was transferred to, and this, so as to complete the appropriate approbat ion period.
Furthermore, if the chosen candidate for the job
vacancy did not benefit of an approbation period six (6) months after the job assignment was given, then the notice of vacancy for that job will be cancelled and another notice will be posted.
15:06 Applicable for promotion granted to employees with less than one (1> year of continuous service with the Company:
Any new employee not having completed his probation period (sixty!60) working days) is not eligible to apply for any job vacancy. An employee who has completed his probation period mentioned above but who has not completed one (1) year of continuous service with the Company will be limited to one <1) promotion on Iy during his first year. However, he may be eligible to apply for a second promotion on the condition that it requires one <1) week or less of training.
15:07 THE APPLICABLE RATE WHEN A PROMOTION OR A BUMPING OCCURS
>6
a)	An employee promoted to the job of "maintenance and mechanic" or in a position to become a tradesmanwill be paid according to the progression rates stated in appendix
b)	An employee promoted to a
job paid on a regular hourly rate will be paid eighty percent (80%)of the regular hourly rate of the job to which he is being promoted and this until he is qualified. This percentage during a period of time not exceeding the first seven (7) days worked on this new job.
However the employee will be paid at the regular hourly rate of the job to which he is being promoted as soon as he is qualified.
Whenever an employee is promoted to a job on which he is already qualified and can fulfill without training, he will be paid according to the regular hourly rate of the job right from the beginning.
c)	An employee promoted to a job being paid with a base rate plus production bonus will be paid according to the base rate of the job to which he is promoted and will receive the production bonus that he earned as he progresses and qualifies himself.
15:08 An employee promoted to a new job by following the procedures at items 15:01 and 15 s 02 that qualified himself and remained on this new job will not be eligible to apply for another job for a period of time proportional to the length of time required for h i s approbation period and to random his decision, The ratio being used to determine the minimum length of time for an employee to remain on a new job shall be one <1) month for
)7
each week required for the approbation period and for him
to random his decision according to item 15:03 a) and
b).
EXAMPLE:	HYPOTHESIS
If an employee is promoted according to the mentioned procedure and requires three (3) weeks to do the work satisfactorily, and takes an extra week to inform the Company that he wishes to remain on this new job,e,g, that the Company has waited a total period of four (4) weeks before being informed officially if the employee remains on this new job; according to the ratio being used the promoted employee shall remain a minimum of four ( 4) months on t h i s new occupation.
SUMMARY:
Week of approbation:
( + )
Week of decision:
(x)
Ratio:
Months minimum:
When an employee applies and receives a job on which he is already qualified; and has previously accomplished that job satisfactorily, item 15 07 does not apply, however, the employee shall not be eligible to apply for another job for a period of time proportional to the length of time required for him to random his decision to the Company once he has filled this vacancy, The ratio being used to determine the minimum length of time for an employee to remain on a job under these conditions will be one (1) month for each week it takes him to random his decision.
3
1
1
4 months
38
EXAMPLE :	HYPOTHESIS
Week of decision:	1
(x)
Ratio:	1
Months minimum:	1 month
15:10 TRADESMEN
a)	DEFINITION:	All trades
recognized by the Department of Labour such as:	Electri-
cian, millwright, stationary engineer, pipefitter. These form the tradesmen covered by the present collective agreement.
To be recognized as a tradesman the employee must possess his competence card and conform himself to the licence requirements as stipulated and defined	.ent of
Labour and Man Power of Quebec.
The tradesmen employees must be fully qualified, well informed and competent in all aspects of their trade and able to assist and direct the efforts of employees on probation as well as helpers
or apprentices that are
assigned to help them, and must accomplish all miscellaneous work related to the requirements of the job.
b)	PROCEDURE TO BE PROMOTED AS TRADESMAN
When a "permanent vacancy" is
created on one of the jobs mentioned at 15!L0 a), the Company will post the job opening in the respective plants according to procedure at 15:01 and 15:05, After-which if the job is not fulfilled the Company will then post this job in all the plants in order to determine if within the other employees some of them have t h e necessary prerequisites and are interested in the job.
9
The selection of the candidate shall be based on the prerequisites for the job and also according to the competence of the candidate based on h i s practical.experience previously acquired.
C) RIGHT TO BUMP IN CASE OF LAY-OFF
The tradesmen employees with competency card working as an electrician, millwright, stationary engineer, pipefitter are not eligible to apply for other occupations, except in cases where the employee is no longer capable of accomplishing the different tasks related to the requirements of his occupation due to for example. sickness or accident resulting in an important loss of his general capacities or for any other reasons judged acceptable. However, in case of lay-off, they may prevail themselves of their seniority to "qualify themselves as per item 15:15.
-	The electricians,on an occupation at plant No. 2,
-	The stationary engineers, on an occupation at plant No. 6,
-	The pipefitters and millwrights will receive the same privileges according to their seniority on
an occupation in their respective plant.
d)	TRADESMEN CLASSIFICATION
List of jobs or functions according to knowledge and competence as tradesmen classification as stated at appendix " 1".
ELECTRICIAN WITH (LICENCE"C")
0
Lead
-	More than one (1) year experience
-	Less than one (1) year experience
MILLWRIGHT WITH COMPETENCE CARD
-	Millwright lead
Millwright
rA________ENGINEER
Stationary engineer (2nd class)
Stationary engineer (3rd class)
Stationary engineer (4th class)
PIPEFITTER
(JOURNEYMAN'S LICENCE)
-	Pipefitter lead
-	Pipefitter with more than one (II year experience
-	Pipefitter with less than one (1) year experience
For the requirements of the present agreement, the • Company and the Union agree that under normal working conditions, the list of jobs classified by plant represents all jobs assigned to the workers for which the Union is certified.
Whenever a new job is created on a permanent basis, and procedure at item 24:01 is completed, it will automatically be added to the list of jobs of the plant concerned.
PLANTS - CLEYN & TINKER (1989) INC.
PLANT #1 - TOP DYEING
1
Polyester balling
Wool balling
Conventional top dyer
Conventional top loader
lima sliver dyer
lima sliver dyer helper
Vigoureux
Backwasher
Combing
Seydel operator
Finishing after combing
Combing Preparation
preparation and/or finishing
Packer
Serracant operator Ass't Seydel operator Warehouse
Maintenance and mechanic
Pipefitter Lot preparer Janitor Oiler
Fallers repairer
Machine cleaner
PLANTS - CLEYN E TINKER INC.
PLANT #2 - CONVENTIONAL SPINNING
2
(1989)
Doubling
Roving
Single winder
Plant janitor Yarn packer Oiler Pindraf t Yarn handler
Maintenance and mechanic
Spinning operator
Twisting operator
Fancy twisting
Pindraft and roving
Electrician
Truck driver
office janitor
Maintenance and mechanic helper
Twisting lead
Spinning operator (combined jobs)
Machine cleaner Spinning attendant
PLANTS - CLEYN & TINKER (1989)
INC.
PLANT #3 - REPCO SPINNING
Pindraft
Roving
Repco lead
Twisting operator
Yarn handler and twisting
Yarn winding (Schlafhorst)
Repco operator
Maintenance and mechanic
Yarn packer Janitor
Janitor (general helper)
Pindraft and roving
Millwright (with competence card)
Package winding
plants - CLEYN & TINKER (1989) INC.
PLANT #4 ~ WEAVING Warper operator Warper beamer lead Warper beamer Warp preparation Weft hauler Weaver Loom fixer Warp hanger (lead)
Warp hanger Chain maker
Re-coner operator
machine setting and harness handler
4
Maintenance and mechanic
Oiler
Yarn handler Piece hauler Pattern weaver Warp hanger - tyer Drawing-in machine Pattern warper (Hergeth)
Janitor
Warp hanger and fixer (pattern)
Warp tyer
Pattern warp hanger helper
Chain maker (helper)
Floater
Sweeper
PLANTS - CLEYN & TINKER (1989) INC.
PLANT #5 - BURLING AND MENDING
Burling and mending Combined jobs on perch
Passer
Day mending
Piece handler
Rolling machine operator
PLANTS - CLEYN & TINKER (1989) INC.
PLANT #6 ~ FINISHING
15
Washer
Crabbing/tacking Dry cleaner Greige room helper Scutcher/dryer Dryer Shear
Sellers semi-decator Pressing Full decator Crabbing/singeing Ekofast Rough perch Finished perch Special mending specking Wrapping Rolling machine Shipping Stock room
Floater
Maintenance and mechanic
Stationary engineer
Pipefitter
Sample room helper
Janitor
Piece dyeing (atmospheric pressure)
Piece dyeing under pressure
46
Package dyeing
Dyes and chemicals drug room
Lead grey room Y. D.
Lead grey room P.D.
PART 2 LAY-OFF
15:12 When	ecomes
necessary on a given job, an employee who has not yet worked a period of sixty (60) working days on the occupation t o which he was promoted or assigned to by the Company will be the first to be laid-off according to article 15:13 or the first to return on his previous job according to article 15:14.
15:13 LAY-OFF - TWO (2) DAYS OR LESS:
a) In case of lay-off of two
(2) working days or less the Company shall have the right to lay-off employees without regard of their seniority.
b)	However, on jobs where many employees are working and a part of the employees are laid-off, the choice to remain at work i s given to employees with the most seniority on their occupation and regular shift.
15:14 LAY-OFF OF MORE THAN TWO (2) DAYS:
When a lay-off of more than two (2) working days but less than four (4) weeks becomes necessary, the employees with
n
the least plant seniority onthe job will be the first laid-off or demoted. The employee subjected to a layoff has the right to replace another employee with less seniority on a job which he previously filled satisfacto rily .
When a lay-off is
foreseen to exceed a period of four (4) weeks, or if the layoff exceeds four (4) weeks, the employee laid-off will have the possibility of. being trained on a job occupied by an employee with less seniority in that same plant, as long as there is no other job in the plant to which he can be transferred without training and that he has completed his probation period at the time of the lay-off.
a)	CASE WHERE THE EMPLOYEE
IS ELIGIBLE TO A TEN (10) DAY TRAINING AT THE TIME OF THE LAY-OFF:
In the case where the employee is qualified on one (1) or many jobs, but cannot burap because these jobs are occupied by employees with more seniority, he will be eligible to only one (1) training period of ten (10) days on another job occupied by an employee with less plant seniority, and this, provided the one claiming the training has completed his probation period at the time of layoff.
b> CASE WHERE THE EMPLOYEE IS ELIGIBLE TO A FIFTEEN (15) DAY TRAINING AT THE TIME OF THE LAY-OFF:
the case where the employee is qualified on one
(1) or many jobs but the only one on which he can bump, because the other jobs are occupied by employees with more seniority represents an important reduction in salary or if the working schedules are less favorable than those of his regularjob, he will he eligible to only one (1) training period of fifteen (15) days on another job occupied by an employee with le plant seniority,and this, provided the one claiming the training has a plant seniority of five ( 5 > years or more at the t i me of lay-off.
2, In the case where the only job on which the employee is
qualified, is the one he has been working on for a minimum of five <5> years at the time of the lay-off, he will be eligible to only one (1) training1 period of fifteen (15) days on a job occupied by an employee with less plant seniority at the time of layoff.
This item refers to training on jobs on which an employee can normally qualify himself in a period of ten ( i 0) and fifteen (15) days whichever is applicable. When the employee does not succeed in qualifying himself within t h e provided period, he becomes once again subjected to being laid-off.
C> EMPLOYEE'S RIGHT TO HIS REGULAR JOB FOLLOWING A BUMPING:
9
When an employee is laid-off of his regular job and bumps an employee with less seniority on another job, in such
case the employee will
retain his right to return to his job during a period based on his plant seniority, as specified at article 13 ; 01.
Once this period is expired the job on which he has bumped becomes his regular job.
When a temporary reduction in production needs occurs requiring less working hours on a given job, the choice to remain at work or to voluntarily accept to work less than forty (40) hours per week will be offered on a voluntary basis and option can be exercised based on seniority,
However, if the lack of work lasts three (3) consecutive weeks and if employees concerned with to work normal forty (40) hour weeks, the Company will then proceed t o lay-offs in order to offer a normal working week to employees that are not being laid-off.
When laid- off, an
employee wi 11 receive a minimum notice of forty-eight (48) hours as long as it is reasonably possible to do so. The employee subjected to a lay-off wishing to prevail himself of his right to bump must make his decision known as soon as possible in order to allow a suitable notice to be given to the employee laid' off who has less seniority,
The Company will advise in the shortest time possible the employees who have the less plant seniority of the possibility of them being subjected to a lay-off.
0
The names of the employees laif-off for a period exceeding two (2) working days will be posted.
15:18 RECALLS TO WORK:
a)	In a lay-off situation, when work becomes once again available on a job, the qualified employee with the most plant seniority will be the first one recalled to work. In the case where none of the employees laid-off are qualified, then they will be eligible following their seniority to receive the training necessary to qualify themselves.
However if the recall of qualified employees, due to the fact that work becomes once again available on a particular job, is scheduled to last more than ten (10) calendar weeks, t h en the nonqualified employee on this job but with the most plant seniority will have the possibility of receiving the necessary training to qualify himself on this job as long as his plant seniority is of ten (10) years or more and that he can normally qualify in a period of ten (10) working days. It is understood that the employee having received training to qualify according
to the preceding will fill the job on a temporary basis until work is available on the job which he occupied at the time
of lay-off.
b> When an employee who has more seniority than others on a given job accepts a voluntary lay-off because of a reduction in activities, he must return to work as soon as his regular job is again available. The employee laid-off must return to work before the Company proceeds to recruit a new employee. When
1
the employee returns temporarily on another job:
He is not considered as a permanent employee,
-	He is not entitled to bumpr
-	He is again laid-off when the temporary work is completed.
When an employee returns to work following a job posting, he may:
-	Accept to fill the posting on a permanent basis arid that job becomes his,
(OR)
- Ask to fill the job on a temporary basis till the activities pick up on the
occupation he had at the time of his lay-off.
In the case of permanent closure of a job, it is highly recommended that the employee subjected to a lay-off immediately prevails himself of his right to bump according to his seniority, any employee who refuses to prevail himself of this privilege and who opts for a lay-off, loses h is right to bump and when recalled to work the last available job becomes his regular job.
ARTICLE 16
2
BULLETIN BOARD
The Company accepts to allow the Union to use the bulletin hoards which may be locked, and this, for their usage exclusively. These boards are placed in each plant and the Union may post notices and announcements regarding its usual affairs, as long as these notices are signed either by the President of the local or by an authorized officer of the Union and that the Company receives a copy of the notice or announcement the preceding working day.
ARTICLE 17
BEREAVEMENT PAY
17 :00 ELIGIBLE EMPLOYEES:
The Company agrees to grant a bereavement pay to the employee who has completed th ree (3) months of continuous service with the Company a t the time when the death occurs in h is family.
17:01 ELIGIBLE PERIOD:
The reference period for bereavement pay is calculated in consecutive, calendar days which start following the death in the employee's family and will end at 7:00 a.m. or 8:00 a.m., whichever is applicable, on the date following the funeral.
However, exception i s made
for the refererice period in the case of the death of spouse where the employee's motivated absence will be five (5) consecutive calendar days which will start following 'the death, and this, regardless of the funeral date.
17:02 RATE AND HOURS PAID TO WHICH EMPLOYEE IS ELIGIBLE
53
a) The employee concerned is eligible to this bereavement payment provided that each days of absence for reasons of sympathy would normally have been a working day for the employee concerned.
The amount of pay to which the employee is entitled is equal to the number of hours as provided according to his regular daily schedule times his hourly regular or average rate, whichever is applicable, at straight time for each day that would normally have been a working day for the employee concerned.
17:03 In order to control foreseen absences as per provisions at items 17:04 and 17:05, Management may reguire sufficient proof which will be subjected to verification.
17:04 MAXIMUM NUMBER OF DAYS FOR BEREAVEMENT PAY
a)	Five (5) days at the time of death of spouse or of common-law spouse.
b)	Four (4) days at the time of death of sonls), daugh-ter(s).
c)	Three ( 3 ) days at the time of death of father, mother', brother(s), sister(s), father-in-law, mother-in-law.
d)	Two (2) days at the time of death of brother-in-law, sister-in-law, stepmother, stepfather,
e)	One (1) day for the funeral at the time of death of son-in-law, daughter-in-law, grand-children, grand-parents of the employee and grandparents of the spouse.
4
In the event of death in
the family as per provisions described at 17:04 a), b), c), and d) , the employee may have reported to the day of the burial or incineration, whichever is applicable, one (1) of the days which he has not made use of out of the maximum number of days he is entitled to above. He w i11 then be entitled to payment provided that the day of absence at the time of burial or incineration would have normally been a work day for the employee.
ARTICLE IS
REPORTING ALLOWANCE
18:00 Any employee who reports to work for his regular shift without having been advised beforehand that his services were not required, may be assigned to another job for a period of four (4) hours, for which he will receive an amount equivalent to four (4) hours of work at his regular rate. However if no work is assigned to him, the employee will receive in any event a minimum equivalent to four <4) hours of pay at his regular rate, based on his average hourly earnings if he is on piece work. Nevertheless, the dispositions of this clause do not apply in the case of stoppage due to heating, electricity, fire, flood, or any other condition of any nature out of the Company’s control.
ARTICLE 19
MINIMUM CALL PAY
19: 00 When an employee is recalled to work outside his normal working hours, he shall be paid a minimum of three (3) hours at the rate of time and
5
one half (1 1/2) of his hourly or average rate, as the case may be, provided that if required by the Company, he performs the work he is assigned to.
ARTICLE 20
STATUTORY HOLIDAYS
20:00 EMPLOYEE ELIGIBLE TO THE PAYMENT:
To be eligible to the payment of the statutory holidays and other holidays specified in this article, the employee must conform to the following requirements:
a ) The employee must be working for the Company and have completed twelve (12) weeks of service.
b ) The employee must work h i s complete regular s h i ft immediately preceding and following the said holiday, except in the case of absence with permission.
However, when two (2) holidays or more follow each other, if the employee does not come to work during h i s complete regular shift immediately preceding and foilowing such holidays, he will lose one (1) holiday pay for each day absent, maximum two (2) days.
c)	In a case of lay-off, an employee will be eligible if his period of absence does not exceed thirty (30) consecutive calendar days immediately prior to the holiday.
d)	In the case of illness, accident, or maternity attested by a doctor's certificate, the employee will be eligible if his period of
absence does not exceed sixty
56
consecutive calendar days, immediately preceding the holiday.
20 :01 HOURLY RATE FOR TIME OFF:
a)	The eligible employee will be paid straight time according to his regular hourly rate, or his hourly average for the employee being paid according to the bonus system.
b)	The employee on trial period (asdescribed at item 9:06 a) when a statutory holiday occurs will be paid straight time according to the highest, of the following rate whichever is applicable:
1, At his hourly rate preceding the introduction of
the trial period,
H i s average rate based on
his average earnings of the thirteen (13) weeks preceding th e trial period,
(OR)
3. His average hourly rate based on his average . earnings of the thirteen (13) weeks preceding the holiday.
20:02 HOURS PAID DURING
STATUTORY HOLIDAYS TO ELIGIBLE EMPLOYEES:
Applicable to employees
scheduled during the period from Monday to Friday:
When a statutory holiday occurs, the eligible employee shall he paid for the standard number of hours which he normally works, based on the preceding thirteen (13) weeks. When the average of daily hours worked based on thirteen
(13)	weeks is less than eight hours and a half (8 1/21, the eligible employee shall
57
receive eight (ft) hours of pay. When the average of
daily hours worked based on thirteen (13) weeks is eight and a half (8 1/2) hours or more, the eligible employee shall receive nine (9) hours of pay for the holiday.
b) Applicable to employees scheduled on twelve (12) hour shifts during the weekend schedule referred as "5/2";
When a statutory holiday occurs, the eligible employee will be paid for each statutory holiday an amount equivalent to eight (8) hours at regular rate, straight time.
Statutory and paid holidays are foreseen to be observed week days, therefore,
Saturdays and Sundays are considered as normal working days for all employees working on the weekend schedule, referred as "5/2".
Statutory holidays and paid holidays foreseen for the duration of the collective agreement will be observed and paid following the calendar established for each year of the collective agreement. The list of these holidays and statutory holidays is the following: **
**1. St-Jean-Baptiste
Confederation *3. Labour Day *4. Thanksgiving 5. Day before Christmas Christmas
Day after Christmas 8. Day before New Year *9. New Year's Day
Day after New Year Good Friday
12.	Easter Monday
13.	One (1) floating day as per provisions at item 20:04 €or each of the three (3) years of the
58
collective agreement 14. One (1) additional
floating holiday for the third (3rd) year of the collective agreement as per provisions at item 20:04.
(**)
<*>
a)
1.
2.
3.
4.
5
6
1,
a.
9.
10
11
12
National Holiday
This axtarisk indicates the statutory holidays as per the."Loi sur les normes du Travail".
From May 7 1990 to May 5 1991, thirteen (13) statutory & paid holidays
Nb. of statutory Day & paid holidays observed
St-Jean-Baptiste Monday (Observed)	25-06-90
confederation	Monday
(Observed) '	02-07-90
Labour Day	Monday
03-09-90
Thanksgiving	Monday
Day	08-10-90
Day before chri stma s
Monday
24-12-90
Christmas
Tuesday
25-12-90
Day after	Wednesday
Christmas	26-12-90
Day before New Year
Monday
31-12-90
New Year's Day
Tuesday
01-01-91
Day after New Wednesday Year	02-01-91
Good Friday	Friday
"	29-03-9s
Easter Monday Monday ”	01-04-91
i9
1
2
3
4
5
6.
7.
a.
9.
10
11
12.
13
c)
1.
2.
Floating holiday
From May 6 1991 to May 3 1992, thirteen (13)
statutory & paid holidays
Nb. of statutory Day & paid holidays observed
St-Jean-Baptiste Monday
Confederation
Labour Day
Thanksgiving
Day
Day before Christmas (Observed)
Christmas
Day after Christmas
Day before New Year
New Year's Day
Day after New Year (Observed)
Good Friday
Easter Monday
Floating holiday
From May 4 1992 to May 2 ' 1993 , fourteen (14) statutory & paid holidays
Nb. of statutory Day & paid holidays Observed
St-Jean-Baptiste Friday (Observed)	26-06-92
Confederation	Friday
(Observed)	03-07-92
24-06-91
Monday
01-	07-91
Monday
02-	09-91
Monday
14-10-91
Friday
27-12-91
Wednesday
25-	12-91
Thursday
26-	12-91
Tuesday
31-12-91
Wednesday
01-01-92
Monday
30-12-91
Friday
17-04-92
Monday
2,0-04-92
0
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
Labour Day
Monday
07-09-92
XI,
12,
13,
14,
Thanksgiving Day Monday 12-10-92
Day before
Christinas
(Observed)
Christmas
after
Christmas
(Observed)
Day before New Year
New Year's Day
Day after New Year (Observed)
Tuesday
29-12-92
Friday
25-12-92
Monday
28-12-92
Thursday
31-12-92
F riday 01-01-93
Wednesday
30-12-92
Good Friday
Easter Monday
Floating holiday Floating holiday
Friday
09-04-93
Monday
12-04-93
20:04 FLOATING HOLIDAY
The choice of prevailing himself of the floating holiday is left to the discretion of the employee, in the case where he wishes to prevail himself of this holiday he must request it forty-eight (48) hours in advance, provided that the following conditions are being respected:
a)	Maximum of one (1) employee per job, per shift, per department.
b)	Whenever there is more than one (1) employee making the request for the same day, plant seniority will prevail.
51
c)	It is understood that this holiday is non-cumulative and
can not be carried from one year to the next based on dates of each year of collective agreement.
d)	In the case where the employee has not prevailed himself of this floating holiday by the end of each year of collective agreement, the Company will pay him the amount to which he is entitled.
s) When an employee observed h i s floating holiday on Holy Saturday,eight (8) hours will be added to the Good Friday holiday hours and to normal hours worked during the week for computation of overtime.
In this particular case the restricting conditions provided at a) and b) of this item are not applicable. This is to maintain acquired right concerning Holy Saturday.
20)05 If the observance of a holiday as shown at article 20:03 occurs during an employee's vacation period, any holiday allowance payable shall be added to his holiday pay, or, should he so request, an additional day off with holiday pay shall- be granted to him at a time convenient to the Company and to the employee.
20:06 Statutory and paid holidays mentioned at item 2 0:03 a), b) and c), with the exception of the floating holiday, will be observed by stopping the Company’s normal operations during a period of twenty-four (24) consecutive hours.
In order to give an equitable earning opportunity to all employees working on each different shift according to their working schedule, the period of twenty-four (24)
62
hours is determined as follows depending if the holiday is observed on Monday or on
Friday :
a)	When a holiday is observed on the Monday, the 24 consecutive hours of the calendar day will be considered as the observation period. All work performed on the shift starting at midnight (12:00 p.ra.) on Monday at the end of the holiday, shall be considered as the shift starting at midnight (12:00 p.m.)' Sunday, and this work will be performed on a voluntary basis. The normal working week will start at the beginning of the regular shift at 7:00 am or 8:00 a.m. whichever is applicable on Tuesday.
b)	When a holiday is observed on the Friday, the 24 consecutive hours of the observation period will start at 7:00 a.m. or 8:00 a.m. at the end of the regular shift on Friday, and will be extended for 24 consecutive hours. In such case all work performed from 7: 00 a.m. or 8:00 a.m. according to the beginning of the regular shift on Saturday will be on a voluntary basis.
ARTICLE 21
ANNUAL VACATION WITH PAY
The Company's employees will be entitled to a vacation period based on the duration of continuous service accomplished in the reference year.
SENIORITY
a) Less than one <1> year
VACATION
PERIOD
One day of vacation per month of
53
service
< *£- b) One (1)	Two (2) weeks
year but less than six (6) years
^ c) Six (6)	Three (3) weeks
years but less than fourteen (14) years
oH a) Fourteen Four (4) weeks
(14)	years but less than twenty-five (25 > years
e)

Twenty-	Five (5) weeks
five (25) years or more
21:01 a) For the vacation period, employees will be paid following a percentage(%) of their gross earnings accomplished in the reference year.
The percentage (%) varying according to the duration of continuous service with the Company.
For interpretation purposes and for calculation of the percentage (%) of vacation pay, the reference year for the first year of the collective agreement will extend from July 1st 1989 to June 30th 1990.
Applicable to
employees absent for reasons of illness, accident or maternity only. The employee absent for reasons of illness, or accident certified by a doctor's paper for a period of seven (7) consecutive weeks or more during the twelve (12) months preceding June 30th will be paid for a number of hours determined as per his seniority. The rate used will be:	The average of the last
thirteen (13) weeks worked at December 31st, plus the average of the last thirteen (13) weeks worked at June 30th, divided by two (2) giving the average hourly rate
4
to be used for calculation of his vacation pay.
Is
Applicable for the first (1st) year of the collective agreement, e.g. from May 7th 1990
to May 5th 1991:
SENIORITY
21:00	(21:01 a) (21:01 b)
VACATION	* of O.E. Hours*
Less than One day of 4$	Nil
one (1) year vacation per month of service
1 year but	2 .wks. 43
less than 3 years
80
*72
3 years but	2 wks, 33
less than 6 years
100
*90
6 years but less than 10 years
3 wks. 6.3*	130
*117
10 years but 3 wks. 7.5* less than 14 years
iso
*133
14 years but less than 18 years
18 years but less than 21 years
4 wks. 8.5*
4 wks
170
*133
190
M71
21 years but 4 wks, 10.5* less than 25 years
210
*189
25 years or	5 wks. 11.0*	220
more	*198
(*) "5/2" schedule
Applicable for the second (2nd) year of the collective agree-2:	rnent, e.g. from May 6th 1991 to
May 3rd 1992:
21:00	(21:01 a)	<21:01 b)
SENIORITY VACATION	* of O.E.	Hours"
Less than One day of 4*	Nil
one (1) year vacation per month service
SENIORITY
21:00 VACATION
(21;01 a) $ of O.E.
(21:01 b>
Hours*
1 year but 2 wks.	42
less than 3 years
80
*72
3 years but	2	wks.
less than 6 years
6 years but	3	wks.
less than 10 years
10 years but	3	wks.
less than 14 years
14 years but	4	wks.
less than 18 years
32
6.52
7.3$
8.52
18 years but	4 wks.	0.52
less than 21 years
21 years but	4 wks.	10.32
less than 25 years
25 years but 3 wks.	11.02
less than 30 years
SO years	3 wks.	11.32
or mote
100
*90
130
*117
130
*135
170
*153
190
*171
210
*180
220
*198
230
*207
(*! "5/2'' schedule
Applicable for the third (3rd) year of the collective agree-3:	ment, e.g. from May 4th 1992 to
May 2nd 1993:
SENIORITY
21 ;00 VACATION
<21:01 a) $ of G.E.
(2i;Ol b) Hours*
Less than One day of 42	Nil
one <1) year vacation per month of service
56
1 year but less than 3 years	2 wks.	42	iso *72
3 years but less than	2 wks.	5.5$	110 *99
6 years			
6 years but less than 10 years	3 wks.	6.33	130 *117
SENIORITY
21:00	(21;01 a) (21:01 b>
VACATION $ of G.e. Hours*
10 years but 3 wks. less than 14 years
14 years but 4 wks. less than 18 years
18 years but 4 wks. less than 21 years
21 years but 4 wks. less than 25 years
25 years but 5 wks. less than 30 years
30 years	5 wks,
or more
(*) "5/2" schedule
7.5$	150
"U3
8.5$	170
*153
9.5$	190
*171
10.3$	210
*189
11.0$ 220
*198
11.5$	230
*207
57
21:02 a) The third (3rd)week vacation specified at 21!00 c) , the fourth (4th)week vacation specified at 21:00 d) and the fifth (5th)week vacation specified at 21:00 a) shall be taken at the date determined by mutual agreement between the employee concerned and the Company.
Employees eligible to a third (3rd)week or to a third (3rd) and a fourth (4th) week or to a third (3rd), a fourth (4th) and a fifth (5th) week1s vacation will have the privilege to request one week’s vacation pay at Christmas. Employees wishing to prevail themselves to this right, shall make a request to this effect at least one (1) week in advance, and this period will then be counted as a vacation period. This does not affect in any way t h e amount that the employee will receive for his statutory holidays.
Applicable to
employees scheduled on twelve (12) hour weekend shift referred as "5/2":
The two (2) weekend days, Saturday and Sunday, constitute a normal work week for employees scheduled on shift referred as "5/2" and will be considered on this same basis to determine the number of weeks of vacation to which they are entitled.
However, t h e calculation of vacation pay for these employees will be based on the percentage (%) of gross earnings accomplished during the reference year considering seniority as per provisions of article 21:01 a). Furthermore, provisions a t article 21:01 b) will apply if need be, to employees working on
shift referred as "5/2" and the number of hours determined according to seniority is indicated by an axterisk (*).
21:03 The Company agrees to inform the employees before April 15th of each year of the annual vacation period,
The employee with the most plant seniority on an occupation w il I take precedence on an employee with less plant seniority on the same occupation as to the choice of dates for his third and/or fourth and/or fifth week of vacation. The Company will ask the employees concerned to make their choice of dates known before April 30th of each year and the Company will post before May 15 th the list stating the choices of dates.
21:04 The duration of continuous service of the employee
with the Company is calculated as of June 30th. It is also as of that date that the vacation pays will be calculated based on the gross earnings made during the previous twelve (12) months.
The reference period for the taking of additional weeks of vacation will extend from July 1st of the current year to June 30th of the following year.
21:05 If the employee makes arrangements with the employer to work the third week of his vacation and any other additional week he is entitled to, he will not be laid-off unless he is subject by seniority.
9
2i;06 A separate cheque will be handed to the employee leaving for vacation for each week he is entitled to and this cheque will be dated in order that it may be cashed the Thursday preceding such weeks of vacation.
a) Normally, the cheques for each week of vacation he is entitled to will be handed to each employee during the week preceding the closing of plants for annual vacation period.
b) However, the employees who remain eligible to a number of weeks of vacation greater than the number of weeks of plant closure, and whose vacation will be taken at a later date as per mutual agreement, they may if they so wish have the Company retain the number of corresponding vacation pays, up to their departure for vacation.
In order that these vacation pays be retained by the Company, the employee concerned will have to inform his foreman and advise the plant manager.
2i:07 Except for cases of plant closure for the annual vacation period, the employee having agreed to take his
additional weeks of vacation he is entitled to at a determined date, and who is as
c£ that date, unable to due to
sickness, accident or for any other valid reason, must advise the Company before the beginning of these weeks of vacation and may postpone his vacation to a later date determined after mutual agreement with the Company.
70
ARTICLE 22
HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
It is agreed that operations within each plant are to be scheduled according to the production requirements. On a weekly basis and under normal conditions, the Company can schedule the operations to fulfill production requirements in the following manner:
a) For the period of three (3)
months starting June 1st. and ending the first Monday of September, the normal work week will be from Monday 7:00 a,m, to Saturday 7: 00 a.m.
(or} Monday 8:00 a.m. to Saturday 8:00 a.m. whichever is applicable. This refers to employees scheduled during the week from Monday to Friday,
b) For a period of nine (9) months starting on the second Monday of September and ending May 31st., the normal work week will be from Monday 7:00 a.m. to Saturday noon (or) Monday 8:00 a.m, to Saturday 1:00 p.m.,, whichever is applicable. However, this does not apply to jobs on which employees are working according to the weekend schedule referred as "5/2".
If production requirements call for one hundred and sixty-eight (168) hours per week of operation, this will be achieved with the application of the schedule referred as "5/2", Depending on needs, work schedules will be set up by job classification, by department section,by department or by plant.
d)	DEFINITION OF SCHEDULE REFERRED AS "5/2":
1
When production requirements call for two (2) weekend days to be scheduled by one (1) or two (2) shifts of twelve (12) hours which the beginning will coincide with the end of regular week shifts, such as:
Day
shift:
7 :0 0 a.m. to 7:00 p.m.
o r
8:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m.
Night s h i f t:
7:00
8:00
p.m. to 7:00 a.m.
or
p.m. to 8:00 a.m.
e)	REDUCTION OF PRODUCTION CAPACITY NEEDS
Since the introduction of twelve (12) hour weekend shifts is to meet greater needs of production, it is also agreed that when the needs of production capacity are reduced, such shifts will be the first ones interrupted.
, The employees subject to being laid-off	: the right,
according to their qualifications and seniority, to prevail themselves of the provisions in the collective agreement to that effect, either to return to the five (5) day schedule or to be laid-off, whichever is applicable.
22:01 Overtime on daily and weekly basis will be on a voluntary basis with the exception of article 22:00 b) when production requirements call for a minimum of 125 hours per week of operation. This does not limit overtime work accomplished on a voluntary basis beyond the normal daily and weekly hours.
72
22:02 The normal working hours per day and per week for the overtime calculation are of eight (8) hours per day and forty (40) hours per week.
22:03 The normal day of all employee for overtime computation purposes will begin with the first hour of the employee's regular shift and will continue for twenty-four (24) hours. It is understood that the regular shift means the one on which the employee is scheduled for a given week. The provisions of this paragraph do not apply in the case where there has been a regular change of shifts due to rotation, or if the work done in excess of eight (8) hours results from employees having exchanged time between themselves.
Notwithstanding the provisions of the previous paragraph, the hours worked by the employee before the beginning of his regular shift will be paid in overtime when he cannot complete his regular eight (8) hours of work because Company Management cannot provide him with a job assignment. Likewise, an employee having worked hours before the beginning of his regular shift, consecutive or not to the ones of his regular shift, will be paid in overtime provided they exceed eight (8) hours.
22:04 Regular hours of work as specified at 22:02, will be paid at straight time, whereas hours worked above regular hours will be considered as overtime and will be paid at the rate of time and one half (150%) of the regular hourly rate or average rate whichever
'3
is applicable.
For the employee eligible to receive payment for:	Hours not worked or
worked for the observance of a statutory holiday according to article 20, and also for hours paid and not worked due to absence for reason of bereavement in his family according to article 17, these hours not worked or worked shall be calculated as worked for calculation of weekly total hours.
A 11 hours worked
during the weekend starting at 7 i 00 a.m. or 8 : 0 0 a,m, according to the end of the regular shift on Saturday until 7;00 a.m. or 3:00 a.m. according to the regular shift on Monday will be paid at the rate of..time and one half (150%). of regular hourly rate or average whichever is applicable.
b > All work performed on the shift starting at 11:00 p.m. or midnight Monday at the end of a statutory holiday shall be considered as the shift starting at 11:00 p.m. or midnight Sunday and shall be paid at the rate of time and one half (I50%)of the regular rate o r average rate whichever is applicable. "SHIFT' means the eight (8) hour period of time between 11:00 p.m, and 7:00 a.m. or midnight and 8:00 a.m. whichever is applicable.
When production requirements or weath e r conditions necessitate the fuactionnin>5 of the boilers during seven (7) days per week of operation, boiler operator employees will be scheduled on four (4) rotating shifts and will receive the overtime and
shift premium as provided in
the present agreement.
22 :0 7 Any work performed on a statutory holiday shall be remunerated at ( 150%) the hourly or average rate whichever applies, over and above remuneration for the paid holiday.
The employee will not receive overtime twice for hours worked in any one day or
in any one week. Overtime payment will be made only for hours that have been worked above regular working hours per day or per week, except for provision mentioned at item 22 i 0 5 ,
The daily or weekly hours of work mentioned in this article, are for computation of overtime hours only and must not be interpreted as being guaranteed.
If the Company decides to modify the work schedule on a permanent basis on a given job, and this as compared to the one in force on the concerned job, the Union will then be advised in writing before the change is introduced.
2 2 iU OVERTIME DISTRIBUTION PROCEDURE:
It is agreed that the procedure to distribute overtime will be the following, either to accomplish additional hours or when the Company is informed that arc employee will be absent from work before the beginning of his shift, and so as to repl him, requires that work be done in overtime:
'5
a) Order of distribution of overtime:
1-	Overtime will first be offered to employees operating a machine assignment or by order of seniority to those occupying the j ob, whichever is applicable, whose shift is ending and where overtime is to be done.
2-	If the employees refuse, overtime will be offered by order of seniority to employees occupying the job whose shift is ending and where overtime is to he done.
3-	If these employees refuse, overtime will then be offered by order of seniority to the other qualified employees working in the same department on the shift which is ending.
4-	If the employees refuse, overtime will be offered by order of seniority to the other qualified employees of the plant on the shift which is ending.
3- If the employees refuse, overtime will then be offered by order of seniority as per procedure provided at 2 2 : i L a ) 2, 3, and 4 but without any regard to the work shift of employees concerned.
b)' When overtime is foreseen and necessary for more than one (1) shift due to the same absence which extends itself in consecutive days, the provisions provided at article 22:11 a) will apply for the first day, after which, the overtime distribution procedure for the subsequent days
? 6
will be the following:
1-	Overtime will be offered by order of seniority to qualified employees occupying the job, without regard to the work shift of employees concerned.
2-	If the employees refuse, overtime will then be offered by order of seniority to the other qualified employees working in the same department, without regard to the work shift of employees concerned.
3-	If those employees refuse, overtime will be offered by order of seniority to the other qualified employees of the plant, without regard to the work shift of employees concerned,
c)	Dividing of overtime:
When overtime is necessary for a complete work shift, the first four (4) hours will be offered as per order of distribution provided at 22:11 a) or b) whichever is applicable, whereas the second four (4) hours will be offered to employees of the shift ; following the one on which there is overtime to be done while respecting the order of distribution provided at 22:11 a) or b)/ whichever is applicable.
However, the provisions of the previous paragraph do not apply when overtime is necessary on the shift referred as "5/2".
77
When an employee is temporarily transferred or a job other than his own as per provisions at article 11 for a period of one (1) week or less and that during this period overtime is necessary on the job normally occupied by the employee, he will then be entitled to the said overtime as per provisions of the present article.
Furthermore, if the period of the employee's temporary transfer exceeds one (1) week and that overtime is necessary
on the job he is temporarily occupying, he will then be eligible to the said overtime as per provisions of the present article.
It is agreed that the overtime will be offered according to one or the other previous circumstances, whichever applies.
e)	If an employee believes that overtime was not offered to him as per the order of distribution provided in the present article, he will notify his foreman and if he judges it to be justified, the Company will then take appropriate measures in order to offer within thirty (30) calendar days another overtime opportunity to the concerned employee.
However, it is understood that this opportunity will not as a consequence limit the overtime opportunity that another employee could have otherwise obtained.
ARTICLE 23
78
PREMIUMS
23:00 SHIFT PREMIUM
Shift premiums are not paid for hours worked on jobs regularly scheduled on day shift. However the following
shift premiums will be paid over and above the regular rate of pay:
a) Fifteen (15) cents per hour for hours worked on a job regularly scheduled on 'the shift of:
3:00 p.m. to 11:00 p-,m. or
4:00 p.m. to midnight
b) Thirty (30) cents per
hour for hours worked on a job regularly scheduled on the shift of:
11:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m. or
Midnight to 8:00 a.m.
c)	Twenty (20) cents per hour for hours worked on a job regularly scheduled on evening shift and which exceed midnight as well ad the twelve (12) hour weekend night shifts.
23:01 Premium for electricians
The electrician who owns an automobile and who must make use of it to go from one plant to another during his regular working hours, will receive a premium of eighteen (18) cents per hour over and above his hourly rate.
As of the second year of the collective agreement
effective on May 6th 1991, the premium will be increased to twenty (20) cents per hour over and above his hourly rate.
'9
23; 02 Special premium
An employee will receive a special premium when designated by the Company for his
competency t o assume a greater responsability. This premium will be granted over and above the hourly rate or average hourly rate whichever applies. This premium is granted according to the following level of responsabi1itiss;
a) Fifty (50) cents per hour when an employee replaces a foreman. He will be called group leader. If the duration of the replacement is expected to exceed two (2) days, the name of the group leader will be posted as of the first day.
b) Twenty (20) cents per hour when an employee trains or retrains a group of employees.
c)	Twenty (20) cents per hour for a maximum period of ten (10) days when an employee trains or re-trains another employee. This applies for each candidate to be trained.
23:03' Premium or bonus at Christmas
A recognition premium or bonus for years of service with the Company shall be distributed each year at Christmas to employees who are at the Company's service on that date. The amount of this bonus shall be based on the number of years of continuous service with the Company. The years of service shall be calculated as of June 30th.
The number of dollars per year of continuous service applicable to each year of the collective agreement is the foi lowing:
0
1st year of collective agreement:	8,50$
2nd year of collective agreement:	8,75$
3rd year of collective agreement :	9,00$
ARTICLE 24 WAGES
24:00 The Company agrees to pay and the Union agrees to accept for the length of this collective agreement that hourly rate and base rate applicable to the bonus system (standard minute) foreseen at appendix "1" which is made part of this agreement and signed €or identification by the parties hereto. Any change of any one of these rates shall conform to this present collective agreement.
When the new job is being created permanently in the bargaining unit the rate will be determined within a delay not exceeding six (6) months. The hourly rate of this job shall be determined by using the method of job evaluation. The committee proceeding to the job evaluation will be formed by six (6) members, three (3) of them will be the Company's representatives and the three (3) others will be the Union representatives, The hourly rate then established becomes the regular rate of this new job and will then be subject to the posting procedure according to items 15:01 and 15:02.
24:02 The general contractual increases included in the rates at appendix "1" and agreed to by the Company as follows:
81
are
a)	To regular hourly paid
employees:
Effective 07/05/90. .47 cents Effective 06/05/91..50 cents
Effective 04/05/92. .53 cents
b)	To employees paid according
to the bonus system w ith base rate:	Considering
that the bonus system (standard minute) offers an earning opportunity equal to 125% of the base rates and to maintain an equitable proportion between these two (2) methods of payment, base rates shall be increased
as follows:
Effective 07/05/90. .38 cents Effective 06/05/91..40 cents Effective 04/05/92..42 cents
c)	The amountof general increase for the third year of the collective agreement, effective May 4th 1992 represents a guaranteed minimum.
If the increase of the consumer price index obtained in June 1992 for the twelve (12) month reference period ending in May 1992 exceeds five and a half percent (5.5%), an additional salary increase will be calculated and paid as per the method provided in the letter of agreement to this effect.
In addition the Company and the Union have agreed to increase a number of rates on certain jobs. The amount of increase and the jobs that-have received those increases are a t appendix "2".
24:04 SALARY PAID TO AN
EMPLOYEE SELECTED AS JURY CANDIDATE OR JURY
12
A regular employee having 'completed his probation period, who is chosen to serve as a jury candidate or jury, will receive if eligible, the difference between his regular daily earnings based on his normal working hours as an employee, and his daily indemnity as jury candidate or jury, provided that hours served as jury are part of his regular working hours and he conformed himself to the following conditions:
a) That he returns to work as soon as possible each time he is released from the Court.
b) He must present to the Company writj e n evidence specifying dates and hours during which he has served as jury candidate or jury as well as the amount of indemnity he has received or will receive from the Court.
T h is article is not applicable if an employee makes the
request himself to serve as jury candidate or jury.
24:05 RETROACTIVITY
All employees employed with the Company having completed thirteen (13) weeks of continuous service at the date of signature of the collective agreement will be entitled to retroactivity as of May 7th 1990. Retroactivity applies on general increases, adjustments, calculated on the basis of hours worked. It also applies on the percentage (%) of gross earnings for the vacation period as well as on the number of weeks of vacation. All other items of the new collective agreement become effective on the date of signature,
83
ARTICLE 25
ARTICLE 25
TAUX POUR LES NOUVEAUX EMPLOYES
25:00 Lorsque la Compagnie embauche un nouvel employd, le taux horaire minimum payd h ce dernier sera de dix (10) cents superieur au salaire horaire minimum fixd par la loi sur las normes du travail.
25:01 Ce taux payd aux
debutants est applicable dueant une periods de soixante (60) jours ouvrables, sauf s'ils atteignent la competence A. leur travail avant ce temps.
ARTICLE 2 6
BEGINNERS RATES
25:00 When t h e Company hires a new employee,the minimum hourly rate paid will be ten
(10) cents higher than minimum hourly salary set by the law "Loi sur les normes ,du travail".
This rate paid to beginners is applicable during a period of sixty (60) working days unless they achieve proficiency in their job before that time.
ARTICLE 26
BENEFICES D'ASSURANCES	INSURANCE BENEFITS
TABLEAU DES GARANTIES
EMPLOYES
CLASSIFICATION
ASSURANCE
VIE
MORT ACC IDSNTSLL E ET DEMEMBREMENT
INDEMNITS
HEBDOMADAIRE
1- Employe	10 000$
celibataire
2- Employe	15 000$ marie
3- Personnes A
charge: -Conjoint -Enfants
10 000$ 5 000$
10
15
000$
000$
%
66 2/3% du salaire hebdo, sujet & un maximum pr6vu en
tout temps dans la loi de 1971 sur 11 as s.-chSmage.
EMPLOYES ET PERSONNES A CHARGE
Indemnities quotidiennes d'hospitalisatiom Chambre semi-priv£e sans limite
quant au nombre de jours.
Assurance-maladie complAmentaire:	Aucune franchise - paiement A 30%
La Compagnie retiendra la ristourne de ce plan enregistre tel que convenu dans la "lettre d1 entente" et sa contribution pour les trois (3) annees de
convention sera:
- Employes masculins ou feminins sans dependants ... 23,00$/mois
- Employes masculins ou ferninins avec dependants ... 33,00$/mois
NOTE:	Les augmentations futures du taux de primes pour les ben&fices ci-haut
mentionnAs seront payees 50% par I'employA et 50% par la Compagnie.
a4
SCHEDULE OF BENEFITS
CLASSIFICATION
1- Single
LIFE
INSURANCE
10 000$
employees
3- Dependents: -Spouse 10 000$
-Children 5 eoes '
ACCIDENTAL, DEATH AND DISMEMBERMENT
10 000$
15 000$
it-
WEEKLY
INCOME BENEFIT
of normal weekly salary, subject to a maxlmurr insurable earnings as from time to time provided in the Unemployment Ins. Act, 1971,	__
7y/W'Zf >
EMPLOYEES AND DEPENDENTS
----------------------- fn
Daily hospital benefits:	Payment of semi-private accommodation. No limit of
days.
<'1 C-’l
Extended health benefits: No deductible - 80% reimbursement.
7^'
The Company will retain the refund amount from this registered plan as consented in the 'agreement letter", and its contribution for the three (3) years of the collective agreement will be:
Male or female employees without dependents , . , 23,00$/month Male or female employees with dependents....... 33,00$/month
NOTE:	The future increases in the cost of premiums for benefits mentioned
above will be paid 50% by the employee and 5 0% by the Company,
85
ARTICLE 27
TECHNICAL CHANGES
When the Company has decided of a technical change, it will notify the Union as soon as possible after this decision. The Company and Union representatives of the plant concerned will meet in order to discuss the importance of the changes contemplated and their impact on the employees.
27:01 For the purpose of the present article "technical changes" means the automation, or renovation of existing machinery or replacement of existing machinery, the whole creating a permanent reduction in the number of employees on a given job or leading to the permanent elimination of one or many jobs. Also, is considered as "technical change" the closing of a department in a permanent manner in any given plant and the combination of many existing jobs leading to the creation of a new permanent job.
27:02 If for the reasons mentioned at 27:01 there results that one or many employees are subjected to a permanent lay-off due to such a technical change, the following provisions will apply:
a) The employee with five (5) years or more of seniority subjected to 'a lay-off resulting from a permanent closing of a job will have the choice to be transferred on a permanent basis to another job occupied by an employee with less seniority or to receive a training according to the posting procedure at 15:02 and 15 j 03.
86
b) The employee with less than five (5) years' seniority subjected to a lay-off resulting from the permanent closing of a job will be transferred to another job occupied by an employee with less seniority on which he is already qualified and has already filled satisfactorily. If he is not qualified on any job, he will then be transferred permanently to another job of his choice provided it is occupied by an employee with less seniority and he will be eligible to receive if necessary a maximum training of fifteen (L5) days on this new occupation.
c)	The employee bumped permanently from his job, as a result of the exercise of the choice to be transferred on another job by the employee subjected to a lay-off as per provisions described at 2 7 i 0 2 a) and b), will be permanently transferred to another job occupied by an employee with less seniority on which he is already qualified and has already filled satisfactorily.
However, the employee thus bumped with five (5) years and more of seniority will have the choice to receive a training according to the posting procedure at 15:02 and 15:03 on another job occupied by an employee with less seniority, whereas the employee bumped with less than five<5> years' seniority, and who is not qualified on any other job, will then be transferred to another job of his choice provided it is occupied by an employee with less seniority and will be eligible to receive, if necessary, a maximum training of fifteen (15) days on this new occupation.
87
27:03 a) When a permanent reduction in the number of employees becomes necessary on a job due to a technical change, and that only a certain number of employees occupying this same job are subjected to a permanent layoff, the choice to remain on this job or, whichever is applicable, to be permanently transferred as per provisions described at 27:02 a) and b) will be made by order of seniority among the employees concerned, and this, up to the number of employees required for the said occupation.
b) Furthermore, the employee or employees concerned who are not subjected to a permanent lay-off will have the choice, during a minimum period of three (3) months and a maximum period of six (6) months after the end of the appropriate trial period, not to accomplish the job according to the new conditions, therefore he or they will be transferred permanently by order of seniority to another job as per provisions at article 27:02 a) and b). However, such permanent transfer may be done only after the Company has filled, following the posting procedure, the vacancy resulting from the decision to transfer the employee(s) concerned.
c)	If after the trial period, an employee is considered as not being able to accomplish the new job, he may then prevail himself of provisions at article 27:02 a) and b).
38
27:04 a) Css employes mis ^ pied poss^dant quatre (4) ans et plus d'anciennetd pour las raisons et suivant les dispositions pr4vuas i item 27:02 a) et b) saront dligi-bles de racavoir una indemnity de 1icenciement selon leur 3ge et anciennet^ tel que pr4vu au tableau en 27i04 b). Un employe 3g6 de cinquante-cinq (S3) ans ou plus a'est pas tenu d'accepter uns tlche sur laquelle il est ddj£ qualifid ou de se recycler sur una autre tSche il aura le choix d'opter pour i'indemnity de 1icenciement s'il ledd3ire.
Il est antandu que tout < employe qui raqoit una ' indemnity de licenciement perdra son anciennetd et son emploi sera terming avec la Compagnie. "Les modalites de paiement de cat article sont ndgociables avec le Syndicat au moment de son application."
27:04 a) The employeesxlaid-off with four (4) years or more of seniority for reasons following provisions provided at item 27:02 ^1 and b) will be eligibl^/fo receive a separatartfn allowance as per their age a'nci seniority as specified at 27:04 b) (table). An employee of fifty-five(55) years of age or more i s not obliged to accept a job on
which he is already qualified or to be retrained on another job he will have the choice to opt for a separation allowance if he so desires, it is understood that any employee who receives a separation allowance will lose his seniority and his employment will be terminated with the Company, "The methods of payment of this article are negotiable with the Union at the time of its application."
27:04 b)
27:04 b)
HONTANT EN DOLLARS POUR L’INDEMNITE DE LICENCIEHENT DOLLARS AHOOUT FOR SEPARATION ALLOWANCE
ANNESS D1ANCIZNNETS YEARS Of SENIORITY
AGE
(0-3)	(4-5)	(6-3)
(12-14)	(15-19)	(20-24)	(25-29) . (30-SLJS)
60-63 NIL, 600 53-59 NIL 600 50-54 NC 600 45-49 NIL 600 40-44 NIL 400 35-39 NIL 400 30-34 NIL 400 25-29 NIL 200 20-24 NIL 200
800	1	000	1	200
800	1	000	1	200
800	1	000	1	200
800	l	000	1	200
600	800	1	000
600	800	I	000
400	900	1	000
400	800
400
1 600 2 600 1 6Q0 1 600 1 600 1 400 1 200
2 400 2 400 2 400 2 400 2 400 2 000
3 000 3 000 3 000 3 000 3 000
4 000 4 000 4 000 4 000
89
ARTICLE 28
HEALTH AND SAFETY
28 01 The Company must take reasonable steps to protect
the health and ensure safety of its workers during working hours.
The Union and employees will cooperate with the Company and give full support €or the introduction, application and the respect of measures and rules concerning health and safety of employees at work.
The Company and the Union ac/ree to maintain a health and safety committee in which both are equally represented at each plant.
Each committee is formed of two employees representing the workers and two members representing the Company.
The main function of this committee is to discuss all questions related to health and safety of employees at work. To make recommendations when it is judged necessary.
The health and safety committee will meet a t least once every three months.
The minutes of these meetings will be kept for future reference. The committee meetings will be held during normal operation hours and this without loss of pay for the committee members representing the workers,
When an employee has an accident at work, the Company will give the first-aid treatment required, as well as transportation to the hospital or to a doctor if necessary, Depending on the seriousness of the injury and the doctor’s
D
decision, if required by the employee, t h e Company will supply the transport back to the plant. In the case where the seriousness of the injury is such that the employee is unable to walk or drive his car, if required, the Company will supply the transportation back to his home.
I n the case where an employee injures himself during h i s regular shift and must be absent to receive medical treatments, he will not lose any salary for the duration of his shift provided he returns to work after the treatment, before the end of his regular shift. If the employee is kept at the hospital or if he is returned home by the doctor, on his return to work he must present to his foreman a medical certificate signed by the doctor, confirming his recommendation and specifying the date and time at which the employee has left the hospital or his office.
In the case where an employee has returned to work following an accident at the plant and still must continue to receive medical treatments according to the doctor's recommendations,when possible, he must try to schedule h i s appointments to receive treatments outside his regular working hours.
In the case where the doctor’s medical treatments can not be scheduled outside the employee's normal working hours, be can then prevail himself of dispositions provided by the workmen's compensation act.
1
ARTICLE 29
DURATION AND RENEWAL
29:00 This agreement will be in force for a period of thirty-six (36) months extending toMf 2nd 1993 ■
29:01 Negotiations to amend this agreement will begin at least thirty (30) days before its expiration and the agreement will remain in force until negotiations are completed and the new collective agreement signed.
ARTICLE 3 0 CORRESPONDANCE
Unless otherwise foreseen, the official exchanges in the form of correspondance between Company management and the Union will be addressed by mail as follows:
TO THE COMPANY:
The Industrial Relations
Manager
Cleyn & Tinker (1989) Inc. P.O. Box 3000 Huntingdon, Quebec JOS 1H0
TO THE UNION:
The President
United Textile Workers of
America
Local 137
c/o Cleyn & Tinker (1989)Inc. P.O. Box 3000 Huntingdon, Quebec:
JOS 1H0
COPY TO MONTREAL OFFICE TO:
General Agent
United Textile Workers of
America
4377 West, Notre-Dame St. Suite 6
Montreal. Quebec H4C 1R9
30:01 All communications exchanged under this collective agreement will be considered as sent by one of the parties and received by the other three (3) working days following its posting date.
APPENDIX TO THE
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT MAY 1990
APPENDIX 3
This appendix is part of the collective agreement between the United Textile Workers of America - local 137 and cleyn & Tinker (1989) Inc.
The Company and the Union agree to the following meaning of the word "QUALIFIED"
written at item 15: 03 b):
a) For hourly paid jobs the Company's judgement to determine when an employee is qualified will be based on the performance expected from an employee 1s normal ability, who has received a reasonable training for t h e job he has been promoted to.
b) For jobs paid on incentive system (standardminute),an employee will be judged qualified when his average performance will exceed (105%) for a full normal week.
However, the above mentioned is considered as a minimum performance required to fulfill the job following a
reasonable approbation period and cannot be considered as normal performance for an experienced worker. Furthermore, any employee having completed six, (6) months on the job to which he has been promoted shall have an average performance exceeding 113%,
otherwise, the Company will
93
have the right to return the employee on his previous job. However, the Company must give a job load and an earning opportunity allowing the employee to obtain an average performance greater than 115%.
APPENDIX TO THE COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
MAY 1990
APPENDIX 4
This appendix is part of the collective agreement between the United Textile Workers of America - local 137 and Clayn & Tinker (1989)Inc.
Female employees with wholly dependents shall be considered in the same category as married men for the insurance benefits according to article 26.
The term " FEMALE EMPLOYEE WITH DEPENDENTS" signifies: unmarried mother, widower, separated, divorced or married when the husband is invalid and has not reached retirement
age.
To be eligible, these female employees shall have wholly dependents. Will be considered as wholly dependents: children of age 0 to 18 years and over 18 years of age will be considered as wholly dependents if such child is attending school or university full time, or if he is mentally or physically infirm or affected by a chronic illness.
The Union and the Company acknowledge the fact that each female employee eligible to these benefits shall be considered with discretion,
4
Any false declaration on behalf of an employee to become illegally eligible to these benefits is subject to being discharged, however, the Company must inform the employee of this fact.
APPENDIX TO THE COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT MAY 1990
This appendix refers to letters of agreement which are part of the collective agreement between the United Textile Workers of America -local 13 7 and Cleyn & Tinker (1989) Inc.
Whereas clauses of the collective agreement govern all generalities, letters of agreement, govern special situations or exception cases. Reference being made to the following letters of agreement:
-	Acquired right concerning working schedules.
-	Procedure to follow when vacancy requiring onl y one (1) employee on a job and when he
is scheduled regularly on days.

Change allowing the night shift to begin and complete their normal week twenty-four (24) hours sooner.
- Establishment of a twelve (12) hour winter schedule for the job of "stationary engineer" at plant No. 6,
APPENDIX 5
5
- Time paid in the event of a lack of material on the job of burling and mending at plant No. 5.
96
COLLECTIVE LABOUR AGREEMENT
between
CLEYN & TINKER (1989) INC. HUNTINGDON, QUEBEC
and
UNITED TEXTILE WORKERS OF AMERICA (C.L.C.)
LOCAL 137
The parties have signed this agreement in Huntingdon on
REPRESENTING THE COMPANY:
Raphael Rodrigue:	vice-
President - Finances
R6al Morin:	Vice-President -
Fabrication
Jean-Pierre Philie:	Directeur
du Personnel et Relations Induatrielles
Roland Cuerrier: Directeur du Genie Industriel
REPRESENTANT INTERNATIONAL POUR LE SYNDICAT:
INTERNATIONAL REPRESENTATIVE FOR THE UNION:
Pierre Jean Olivier: Representant International
Raymond Wynd:	Agent
d'affaires
REPRESENTANT LE SYNDICAT LOCAL 137:
Jacques Leduc:	President
et V.-P.	(#6)
Denis Gaudet:	Sec.-Trdsorier
Denis Leblanc:	V.-P. (#1)
R«5mi Robidoux:	V.-P. (#2)
Denis Valli&res:	V.-P. (#3)
Yves Nadeau:	V.-P. (#4)
V.-P. (#5)
UNION REPRESENTATIVE LOCAL 137:
Joanne Allen: