COLLECTIVE LABOUR AGREEMENT
between
CLEYN &TINKER INC.
Plants No. 1,2,4,5,6
Huntingdon (Quebec)
hereafter called the “EMPLOYER” of the first part
and
THE COUNCIL OF THE UNITED TEXTILE WORKERS OF AMERICA UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION (AFL-CIO-CLC-QFL)
Local 137T for plants 1,2,4,5,6
; heredtur balled the £U/silCs998f the’ second part.
INDEX
Article
Page
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8 9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20 21 22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
Purpose .............................. 1
Recognition ...........................1
Employees .............................!
Union Dues ............................2
Reservation and Management Rights .. .5
Discrimination ........................7
Strikes and Lockouts ...................8
Union Representation ..................8
Productivity .........................11
Grievances and Arbitration ...........22
Temporary Transfers ...................27
Seniority .............................30
Loss of Seniority ....................32
Discharge and Disciplinary Measure .. .37
Promotion and Lay-Off ................38
Bulletin Board .......................68
Bereavement Pay.......................69
Reporting Allowance ..................72
Minimum Call Pay .....................72
Statutory Holidays ....................73
Annual Vacation with Pay ..............85
Hours of Work and Overtime ...........91
Premiums.............................100
Wages ................................105
Beginners Rates......................108
Insurance Benefits ..................109
Technical Changes ....................110
Health and Safety.....................117
Duration and Renewal .............r/iT§>
Correspondance ......................_TT9
General Information ..................120
Appendix 3...........................12I
Appendix 4............................122
Appendix 5............................123
ARTICLE 1
PURPOSE
The pat-ties have agreed that the general purpose of this agreement is to promote the mutual interest of the Company and its employees, to provide for the operation of the plants under methods which will further to the fullest extent possible the safety and welfare of employees and the economy of operations, quality and quantity of output, cleanliness of plant, protection of property.
ARTICLE 2 RECOGNITION
The Company recognizes the Union as the sole bargaining agent for all employees in accordance with the Law of plants No. 1,2,4,5,6 with the exception of office employees.
ARTICLE 3 EMPLOYEES
3:00 The term “EMPLOYEE(S)” whenever found in the present agreement shall designate the workers for which the Union is certified.
3:01 When in the present collective agreement the masculine pronoun is used, this signifies and includes the feminine pronoun wherever applicable.
ARTICLE 4
UNION DUES
4:00 As a condition of employment all employees shall sign an authorization form in duplicate, enabling the Company to deduct the Union dues from their pay as stipulated by the Union. These Union dues will be deducted as of the first week of work accomplished by the employee. These deductions as well as the duplicate authorization form, will be forwarded to the agent designated by the Union.
4:01 When hiring a new employee, the employer will inform him of the existence of the union and will have him sign an appropriate authorization form in order to allow deduction of union dues from the employee's pay.
The authorization form will read as follows:
CLEYN &TINKER INC.
“I, the undersigned, hereby authorize my employer to deduct from my pay the required amount, for any Union dues to the U.F.C.W. -Textile Council Local 137T, to be paid to the agent designated by this Union”.
The employer will also inform the new employee of the names of the departmental stewards in the plant where he will be working as well the employer will take appropriate measures for the employee to be introduced to a departmental steward.
2
4:02 Deduction of entry fees
The employer will deduct the entry fees stipulated in the Unions's regulations once the employee has completed a waiting period of thirty (30) calendar days. The entry fees will be sent to the Union’s Secretary-Treasurer, accompanied by the report of union contributions.
4:03 Deduction of union dues
The employer will deduct the union dues stipulated in the Union's regulations from the employee's pay starting from the first paycheck. These amounts will be sent to the Union's Secretary-Treasurer accompanied by the report of union contributions.
4:04 Remittance of union contributions
The employer will send the dues and entry fees to the Union’s Secretary-Treasurer at the latest the fifteenth day following a period of four (4) weeks of deductions, accompanied by the report of union contributions.
4:05 Report of union contributions
On the monthly report of union contributions, the employer will provide the following information: number of employee, name and surname, social insurance number, employment classification, weekly deduction, monthly cumulative amount of contributions of each employee and the annual cumulative amount.
3
In the case of a new employee the employer will provide the following additional information: address, date of birth, date of employment and entry rights.
4:06 The employee who completes his probation period sees his name appear on the seniority list.
4:07 Special dues or arrears
The Union will advise the employer in writing of any special dues to be deducted on the employees' pays or of any arrears in the payment of regular or special dues, of entry fees which could be owed by an employee. On reception of this written notice, the employer is committed to deducting each week from the employee's pay an amount equivalent to the monthly union due prescribed by the Union and to send the sums deducted together with the remittance of the monthly regular dues. Such written notice of arrears or special dues must stipulate that these are deductions at source.
4:08 Union dues shall be deducted from the employee’s pay each week for 52 weeks yearly. The Company shall, when making the TP4-T4 Income Tax slips, indicate the employee's total union dues deductions. The union dues are applicable to all weeks of pay on the basis of 52 weeks per year, it is to be noted that the vacation pays are subjected to this deduction, but in no event, will there be more than 52 regular deductions per year made. The weeks of
4
pay which do not have a minimum of eight (8) hours, will not be subjected to the Union deduction, likewise the weeks of absence for illness, accident or lay-off will not be subjected to deductions and no arrears will be collected when the employee returns to work.
4:09 List of employees
As of the signing of the collective agreement, the Company will provide the Union with a list of all employees covered by the collective agreement. This list will include the employee's addresses, the dates of plant and Company seniority and will indicate their regular job.
This list will be revised in February of every year and a copy will be sent to the Union as of the first week of the month.
ARTICLE 5
RESERVATION OF MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
5:00 The Union acknowledges that it is the exclusive function of the Company to:
a)	Maintain order, discipline and efficiency;
b)	For just cause the Company can hire, discharge, classify, transfer, promote, demote, reprimand and suspend or otherwise discipline employees;
5
c)	Judge the skill, knowledge, efficiency and all-round ability of individual employees.
5:01 Manage the industrial enterprise in which the Company is engaged, and without restricting the generality of the foregoing to change or introduce machine processes and methods; to make time studies of and to institute changes in work loads, job assignments, methods of operation and work payment rates; to determine the products to be manufactured, processes of manufacturing, and all other matters concerning the operation of the Company's business.
5:02 It is understood that the piece rates mentioned in this contract are subject to change for technical improvements, change in job assignments, improvement or deterioration of the quality of material to be processed.
5:03 a) The Company reserves the right to discharge or demote any employees for any of the following reasons:
- Drunkenness, incompetence, insubordination, absence without leave, smoking in prohibited areas, drinking intoxicating liquors while on duty, endangering his own life or safety and/or the life or safety of a fellow employee, violation of plant rules providing that the changes are posted 48 hours prior to the date they become effective, or for any other just cause.
6
5:03 b) DEMOTION
The parties agree that when the Company demotes an employee he will be entitled to apply for the first permanent vacancy available as per the posting procedure as long as his seniority enables him to do so or for the first available job for which no other employee has signed the notice of vacancy or claimed the job following its posting.
5:04 The Company agrees that these functions will be exercised in a manner consistent with the provisions of the agreement and the collective bargaining rights of the Union.
ARTICLE 6
DISCRIMINATION
It is agreed that there will be no discrimination on behalf of both parties having taken part in this agreement as a result of past, present or future activities in negotiations, disputes, grievances or complaints.
It is also agreed that there will be no intimidation from the employees or their representatives towards the Company's representatives as well as no intimidation on behalf of the Company or its representatives towards the Union's representatives or its members.
Furthermore, the parties agree that there will be no discrimination against any employee because of his race, color, language, creed, religion, sex or handicap.
ARTICLE 7
STRIKES AND LOCKOUTS
7:00 There shall be no lockout by the Company, or strike, slowdown, sitdown or suspension of work, either complete or partial, by the employees, during the life of this agreement.
ARTICLE 8
UNION REPRESENTATION 8:00 DESIGNATION:
The Union shall designate amongst the employees a representative per shift in each department to be known as a “Departmental steward”.
a)	UNION'S EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
The Union’s executive committee is comprised of the President of local 137T, the Secretary-Treasurer of the local as well as the Union Vice-President of each of the five (5) plants of Cleyn & Tinker Inc.
b)	DEPARTMENTAL STEWARD
The Union will nominate amongst the employees 8
a steward per shift in each department who will be known as “Departmental steward”.
8:01 FUNCTIONS OF THE DEPARTMENTAL STEWARD
This departmental steward's functions will be to consider all grievances or complaints which the employees of his department may bring to his attention and to proceed with these grievances or complaints in conformity with the grievance procedure established in this agreement.
8:02 ABSENCE OF AN EMPLOYEE FROM HIS JOE
a)	An employee shall not leave his working place to attend Union business without having obtained permission from his immediate superior beforehand. This permission will be granted for grievance procedure only and will not be refused without justification.
b)	In order to maintain past practices, the Company accepts to pay for hours incurred during meetings held for settlement of grievances when these are part of the regular shift of the employee concerned and when a minimum of one Company representative participates in the meeting.
However, the Company accepts to pay at straight time the Union representative or the employee concerned, whichever the case, as per his regular hourly rate or average hourly rate, whichever is applicable, for all hours incurred during meetings summoned by the Company, of the health and safety committee of each plant, of the grievance committee and also for negotiations for the renewal of the collective agreement and when a minimum of one representative of the Company participates in the meeting. However, all hours paid at straight time which are not part of the regular shift of the Union representative or the employee concerned, whichever is applicable, will not be considered as worked for the purpose of overtime computation on a daily and weekly basis.
8:03 UNION REPRESENTATIVE ABSENT FOR UNION BUSINESS:
The Company will grant a leave of absence to any seven (7) Union executives form Cleyn & Tinker Inc. for out of town business, provided forty-eight (48) hours’ notice is given. Such written permission shall not be unreasonably withheld.
8:04 LIST OF UNION REPRESENTATIVES:
The Union agrees to keep on file with the Company an up-to-date list of names of the Union's Executive members, and also the names of the departmental stewards.
10
ARTICLE 9
PRODUCTIVITY
PART
STANDARD OF PRODUCTIVITY
9:00 a) The Union recognizes the right of the Company to establish, institute, modify or adjust, and to put into effect standards of productivity. These standards of productivity should be just and equitable and take into account the effort that may be expected of experienced workers having normal working capacities, and performing good quality work efficiently.
b)	In keeping with above, such just and equitable standards as established by the Company shall be recognized by industrial engineering principles, shall contain allowance for fatigue, rest and personal needs.
9:01 In agreement with the principles mentioned above, the Union agrees to cooperate with the Company to encourage a good efficiency of the employees by a reasonable level of productivity, according to the opportunity given by the Company.
9:02 The normal pace which shall prevail, whatever technique is being used to measure the time, is the rhythm where effective speed of an average person, walking without any load, in a straight line on level ground, at a speed of three (3) miles per hour, judgment of the speed of each element shall be made.
11
9:03 a) In accordance with the present clause of productivity, the Union acknowledges the right of the Company at any time to institute a bonus plan “Standard minutes” with a base rate of any operation actually paid hourly; to change the present piece work rates (with or without base rates) into “Standard minutes” system, with a base rate.
b)	Base rate represents job load at 100%.
Example:
100% job load =
125% earning opportunity.
c)	MEASURED HOURLY JOB
1.	In accordance with the present clause of productivity, the Union acknowledges the right of the Company to institute standards of productivity on any operation paid hourly. In such cases, the elements of work measured on an operation paid hourly will represent a one hundred percent (100%) job load and it will be identified as a “measured hourly job”.
When the Company will have decided to institute a “measured hourly job”, the representative of the Company and the Union Vice-President of the plant concerned will meet in order to discuss the nature of the changes foreseen and their impact on employees concerned 5 calendar days before their introduction.
12
2.	All qualified employees working on a “measured hourly job” should have a job load of approximately one hundred percent (100%).
However, it is agreed that in the case of employees assigned to a “measured hourly job”, the Company will not be obliged to offer such a job load when it is not available or when the employee is incapable or not willing to carry it out.
3.	When the Company judges that an employee working on a “measured hourly job” is not able to carry out a job load of one hundred percent (100%) and this after having received the appropriate training, the employee will then be permanently transferred to another job occupied by an employee with less seniority on which he is already qualified and has already fulfilled satisfactorily. Furthermore, the employee concerned that is not qualified on any other job will be eligible to a permanent transfer on another job occupied by an employee with less seniority and to receive a training following the posting procedure at 15:02 and 15:03.
It is agreed that the decision to permanently transfer an employee for the reasons above falls under the division manager's responsibility or, as per the case, of the concerned plant.
13
PART
INTRODUCTION AND MAJOR CHANGES
9:04 This second part deals with the introduction of the bonus system “Standard minutes”, of “measured hourly jobs”, and also with major changes requiring a trial period.
a)	1. At the introduction of the bonus plan “Standard minutes” or of a “measured hourly job”, the base rate plus the production bonus or the hourly rate proposed by the Company will be a minimum of 35 cents higher than the hourly rate of the occupation in effect at the time of introduction of the bonus system or the “measured hourly job” when this job has always been paid at a regular hourly rate.
2. In the case of re-introduction of bonus plan where there is already an existing base rate or in the case of a job where the hourly rate is a result of obsolete bonus system, the base rate will be set in mutual agreement between parties.
b)	When a job on bonus system “Standard minutes” is reverted to a regular hourly rate, or when the Company decides to institute a “measured hourly job”, the hourly rate will be determined based on the average of the employee or employees concerned.
Minimum: Will not be less than the base rate times 125%.
14
Maximum: Will not be greater than the base rate times 140%.
c)	If a change contemplated by the Company concerning a wage incentive plan occupation or a “measured hourly job” has to do with a revision of a measured work element or the addition of a measured work element or the complete elimination of a measured work element because of the installation of different machinery or if a piece work occupation is to be placed by the Company on the bonus system or according to a “measured hourly job”, or if a new occupation is introduced on bonus system or according to a “measured hourly job”, these major changes require a trial period. The Company will meet the concerned employees in the presence of the Union Vice-President of their plant and in his absence of the departmental steward concerned 10 days before its application, and the Union will be advised in writing of the nature of the change 5 days before its introduction.
d)	When the Company's decision to institute the method of remuneration “measured hourly job” on an occupation which was always paid according to the bonus system “Standards minutes” leads to a reduction in the order of 3% of the hourly rate earned by the employee concerned in comparison with his average hourly rate at the time the hourly rate of the “measured hourly job” was set, then the employee will be eligible to a permanent transfer on a job occupied by an employee with less seniority and to receive a training following the posting procedure at 15:02 and 15:03.
15
9:05 The Company does not undertake to guarantee any fixed amount of bonus payment, time standards and job assignment which offers a bonus opportunity averaging 25% of the base rate. It is understood that there is no obligation on the Company to offer such a bonus opportunity when the assignment is not available or when the employee is not capable of handling such an assignment.
9:06 a) Any introduction or major change mentioned in 9:04 a) and c), will require a trial period of six (6) calendar weeks, (extendible) up to a maximum of three (3) calendar months. If, after this trial period no disagreement or grievance has resulted from this change in the ten (10) days following the meeting foreseen at 9:06 b), the change will be considered as being accepted.
b) Within ten (10) days following the end of the trial period, the Company will convoke a meeting with the employees concerned in the presence of the Union Vice-President of their plant as well as the stewards of the department concerned to discuss the results of the trial period. The Company will inform the Union in writing of the results of the trial period and also of the meeting. Failing to reach an agreement the Union will inform the Company and will request their time study specialist to verify the validity of the rate and/or of the job loads in dispute. In such a case it is understood that the Union has to make his time study specialist available for a meeting with those of the Company within ten (10)
16
working days from the receipt of the results from the Company of the trial period. This period can be extended by mutual agreement. Saturdays, Sundays, statutory holidays and annual vacations shall not be counted in delays of this clause.
c)	All changes made by the Company remain in force during the period of dispute, and the employees concerned will be paid according to the new rates and/or according to the case will carry out the established job load until final agreement of the two (2) parties.
If the results of the joint tests or the decision of arbitration bring an increase in the standard time value, a retroactive compensation will be paid as of the date of the change according to the “Standards minutes” bonus system only.
d)	Joint tests will be made by a time study specialist of the Company and a representative of the Union to settle the grievance on the change concerned, or to agree on a compromise. The extent of the joint tests called for may be determined by the parties by mutual agreement. If the results of the joint tests are such as not to affect the original value or work load by plus or minus 3% or less, no change is to be made. If the results of the said joint tests affect the original value or work load by greater than plus or minus 3%, the value or work load will be so revised and put into effect. Any joint tests shall be of the same nature and to the same extent as the tests upon which the change
17
was originally based. The extent of the joint test called for may be revised by the parties by mutual agreement.
e)	If the parties, after having completed the joint tests and having studied the results cannot agree on the results of the said joint tests, the question will be submitted to step 3 of the grievance procedure and, in failing to reach an agreement at this step, the question will then be submitted to arbitration in conformity with article 10 of this contract.
9:07 During the trial period, the employees concerned will work under the new conditions and will be paid according to the new rates. In the case of the “Standard minutes” bonus system an adjustment shall be reimbursed every three (3) weeks of the trial period if their average hourly earnings during the said period are inferior to their average hourly earnings of the last thirteen (13) weeks preceding the trial period.
9:08 The “average hourly earnings” wherever mentioned in this contract, denote the average hourly earnings of the last thirteen (13) weeks excluding overtime, shift premium, the hourly rate applicable when an employee works additional hours as well as all bonuses except for production bonuses.
18
PART 3
CONTROLLING AND ADJUSTING EXISTING RATE AND WORK LOAD
9:09 a) The Union acknowledges the right of the Company to restudy, investigate and to adjust the job loads as well as the incentive rates which yield earnings exceeding 35% over the base rate for new jobs studies or existing jobs according to the bonus system “Standard Minutes” and to restudy, investigate and to adjust job loads as well as the standard time value for a “measured hourly job”.
MEASURED HOURLY JOB
The Company will provide following a written request from the Union, the appropriate information relating to the job load established for a particular measured hourly job when it has valuable reasons to believe that the concerned job load could exceed one hundred percent (100%).
In the event that the Union requests a verification of its accuracy, the Company will authorize the Union's designated specialist to proceed with such a verification. The Company and the Union recognize that the above verifications and if applicable all modifications to the concerned job loads aim at maintaining them at one hundred percent (100%).
b) Incentive rates or if the case may be, the standard time value of “measured hourly jobs”
19
can be re-studied and changed when they become loose or tight due to:
1.	The revision, addition or exclusion of a work element and/or a measure work element.
2.	Increase or reduction in frequency of end breaks or faults will be revised every three (3) months and adjusted if necessary.
3.	A change in the weight of the supply, and finished package, in the speed of the machine, in the working methods, or any other unforeseen change which would be recognized by the parties.
c) The Company and the Union agree that the control of rates and of the standard time value of “measured hourly jobs” mentioned at 9:09 a) and b) aim at maintaining work loads and/or employees earning opportunity for those paid as per the bonus system “Standards minutes” within set standards and at maintaining fair and balanced rates on all concerned occupations.
9.10 The change mentioned in 9.09 a) and b) will not require a trial period. However the Company will inform the Union in writing of the nature of the proposed change, of the necessary explanations concerning such a change, and this, five (5) working days before its date of implementation.
When changes require a revision of rates as per the bonus system “Standards minutes”, the
20
production bonus will be calculated each week by using the newly revised rates as well as the previous rates for a period of four (4) weeks.
When these new rates compared to the previous rates reduce the bonus opportunity on production, the employee will continue to be paid as per the old rates every week during the first four (4) weeks. Afterwards, he will be paid according to the new rates. The purpose of this procedure is to allow the employee to evaluate the change and to adapt himself to the new rate without loss of opportunity for the first four (4) weeks.
PART
BONUS SYSTEM “STANDARD MINUTES”
9:11 a) In the case where all machines are stopped due to steam or power outage, fire, flood or any other reason of any nature out of the Company's control, an employee working on incentive will be paid as per his base rate times 125% during the period where he remains idle.
b)	In all other cases, the downtime rate applies on the portion of machines that are stopped and regular incentive rate continues to apply on the portion of machines which remain in operation if a temporary transfer is impossible. The downtime rate is specified on the list of incentive rates for each job.
21
9:12 a) When a machine breakdown occurs in “one man one machine” operation only, the operator may consent to aid the repair upon request by the management and be paid at his hourly average for the period he provides assistance to the mechanic.
b) An employee who does not consent or is not requested to aid as per conditions established at 9:12 a) shall receive his base rate for the first two (2) hours of the breakdown, in a said week, after which he will be paid as per his base rate times 125% for any period of breakdown which occurs in that same week of work, and this, if a temporary transfer is impossible.
ARTICLE 10
GRIEVANCES AND ARBITRATION
10:00 In order to establish an orderly procedure for the handling of grievances and disputes, the Union and the Company will cooperate at all times for the general welfare and satisfactory disposal of all complaints, grievances, disputes, suggestions or representations advanced by either party.
10.01 It is the mutual desire of the parties to this agreement, that the complaints of employees be settled in the shortest time possible and it is understood that, before submitting a written grievance the employee must first discuss the complaint with his foreman. In such case, the employee has the choice to present himself alone or to do so in the presence of his Union representative if he wishes.
22
10:02 If an employee has a complaint that he was unable to settle after discussion with his foreman, he may take up the matter in a written grievance in the manner and sequence that follows:
10:03 Step No. 1
The wronged employee and/or the departmental representative and, in his absence by another union representative of the plant, must submit the grievance in writing to his foreman. The foreman concerned must render his decision in writing within three (3) working days following receipt of the grievance.
10:04 Step No. 2
If within five (5) complete working days following the decision at step No. 1 the decision is not deemed satisfactory, the wronged employee and/or his union Vice-President of the plant and in his absence the union President of local 137T, must then submit the grievance in writing to the plant manager.
After receiving the grievance, the plant manager shall hold a meeting within a period not exceeding five (5) complete working days following its reception in the presence of the foreman and the concerned employee with the union Vice-President of the plant and in his absence, the President of local 137T in order to try and resolve the grievance before proceeding with step No. 3. The plant manager shall render his decision in writing within this same period.
23
10:05 Step No. 3
If the decision taken at step No. 2 is not deemed satisfactory, the wronged employee and/or his union Vice-President of the plant and in his absence the President of the local can refer the grievance to the “Grievance committee”, consisting of representatives from the Union and the Company.
The grievance committee will meet maximum once (1) a month as needed.
10:06 GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
a)	The committee is formed of:
-	Company's representatives:
Human Resources Manager, industrial engineering Manager and plant managers, and by any other representative designated by the Management.
-	Union's representatives:
President of Local 137T, Union VicePresident from each one of the five (5) plants of Cleyn & Tinker Inc. and by the Secretary-Treasurer of the local. They may be assisted by the business Agent of the local Union. In the case where no “Tradesman employee” occupies one of the functions previously mentioned, a “Tradesman employee” representing them, could then be part of this committee.
24
b)	The function of this committee is to engage in the study, discussion and settlement of grievance and any other subject of common interest submitted to its attention by the representatives of one or the other of the parties.
c)	Each of the parties to the present agreement will give in writing to the other party the general order of the questions which it wants discussed and this within the seven (7) working days which precede each meeting.
d)	All decisions arrived at by the agreement, either at the grievance Committee or at a previous step of the grievance procedure shall be final and binding on the employees, the Union and the Company.
e)	At the Union's request, the Company will submit in writing its position on a specific topic discussed during a Grievance committee meeting.
10:07 All and every time limits set in the present article are binding but may be prolonged by a written agreement between parties. However if the prescribed time limits are not respected by one party or the other, it will then automatically pass on to the next step unless the party who submitted the grievance renounces to this in writing.
25
10:08 COLLECTIVE GRIEVANCE
If two (2) employees or more have a common grievance which they were unable to settle following the discussion held with the concerned foreman, they may raise their grievance in writing in the manner and order provided at articles 10:03 and following of the collective agreement.
Such a grievance must be signed by the employees bringing it forth.
10:09 PROCEDURE - ARBITRATION
In the event that the grievance or dispute cannot be satisfactorily settled by the methods outlined above, the matter shall be referred to arbitration. In such an event, the parties will submit the grievance to a single arbitrator.
In the event that the Company and the Union cannot agree upon the choice of a single arbitrator, the Minister of Labour for the province of Quebec shall be called upon to name a single arbitrator. The decision of the single arbitrator shall be rendered within thirty (30) working days after the hearing, but such a delay may be extended by a written mutual agreement from the Company or the Union. The decision of the single arbitrator shall be final and binding upon all parties to this agreement.
10:10 The single arbitrator cannot add to, change, modify or alter the terms of this agreement.
26
10:11 The Company and the Union agree to pay an equal amount for the fees and expenses of the Single arbitrator.
ARTICLE 11
TEMPORARY TRANSFERS
11:00 WHEN A TEMPORARY TRANSFER IS REQUIRED TO FULFILL PRODUCTION NEEDS:
a)	When the Company transfers an employee temporarily on an operation other than his own to fulfill production needs although the employee has sufficient work on his regular job, he will be paid the highest of the three (3) following rates:
1.	His average hourly rate as defined at article 9:08.
2.	The rate of the job to which he is transferred (on incentive or hourly).
3.	According to the average hourly earnings of employees working on his regular job, calculated weekly during the period of the transfer.
b)	In so far as the Company will judge possible, the temporary transfers may be offered by order of seniority to employees qualified on a job where it is determined by Management that such a transfer may be done considering the production needs to satisfy.
27
The operator who is transferred on an operation paid on incentive will not acquire under any circumstance the average earnings made by the regular operators on the said operation, however he will have the possibility of earning what he can produce, even it this earning is superior to his average hourly rate. The temporary transfer is for a period not exceeding forty (40) working days.
In the case where the transfer involves less favorable working conditions for the employee, the Company will try to shorten this period. Following a request made by the employee, at the end of the forty (40) working days, the Company may assign when possible, another employee to the said temporary transfer.
11:01 OVERTIME WHEN A TEMPORARY
TRANSFER IS REQUIRED TO FULFILL PRODUCTION NEEDS:
When an employee is required to work overtime on an operation other than his own, after his regular shift hours, the payment of these overtime hours will be calculated based on the highest applicable rate as per 11:00 a).
11:02 ALL OTHER TRANSFER:
a)	When a worker becomes redundant during his regular shift due to shortage of material, machine breakdown or any other reason, and if, he is not required by the Company to fulfill production needs, the employee can either
28
punch out or accept a temporary transfer to another job if there is one available. If he takes the job, the employee shall accept the rate of
this operation.
b)	If the operation in question is on incentive, he will have the opportunity of earning what he can make at the job even if it is in excess of his own average on his regular operation.
c)	An operator transferred under these conditions will not drop below the base rate of the operation he has been transferred to. In the case where the employee has not worked on this job since six (6) months or more, he will receive as guaranteed minimum the base rate plus 15% during five (5) days in order for him to re-adapt himself on this job.
d)	In connection to this paragraph, both the Company and the Union are bound by article 18, in the first place, then the foregoing procedure can apply.
11:03 OVERTIME WHEN TRANSFERRED TEMPORARILY:
When an employee works overtime hours on an operation, other than his own, after his regular hours according to conditions set out in 11:02, as well as an employee who voluntarily accepts to work overtime on another operation, the payment of these overtime hours will be calculated based on the rate of the job to which he is transferred according to 11:02.
29
ARTICLE 12
SENIORITY
12:00 a) New employees will serve a probationary period of sixty (60) working days before acquiring seniority rights. The two (2) working days of twelve (12) hours during the weekend are equivalent to three (3) working days of eight (8) hours during the week. In particular cases, the probationary period may be longer if at the Company's request an agreement is reached between the two (2) parties before the fifty-sixth (56th) day worked by the new employee. A copy of this agreement will be mailed to the Union Vice-President of the plant concerned and will specify the duration of the probationary period extension which will never surpass sixty (60) working days. Once this period is completed, their seniority shall then date back to their last hiring date with the Company.
b) Exception rule to article 13:01 a). When a new employee is laid-off due to lack of work before having completed his approbation period of sixty (60) working days, and the duration of the lay-off exceeds the duration of service with the Company, he will be credited in seniority the number of days worked, for probation purposes, provided that the two (2) following conditions apply:
1.	The Company's management wishes to call him back.
30
2.	The length of lay-off does not exceed six (6) months.
12:01 There are two (2) types of seniority, namely:
a)	Company seniority.
b)	Plant seniority.
12:02 DEFINITION OF SENIORITY
a)	Company seniority:
Is that which is accumulated while in the employ of the Company in any department of any plant. The Company's seniority prevails to determine the fringe benefits.
b)	Plant seniority:
Is that which is accumulated while in the employ of the Company in any department of any one plant. The plant seniority prevails in cases of promotion or lay-off within the plant.
12:03 For the requirement of this contract the Company and the plants are defined as follows:
a)	Company: Cleyn & Tinker Inc.
Pit. No. 1:	Top dyeing
Pit. No. 2:	Conventional spinning
Pit. No. 4: Weaving
Pit. No. 5:	Burling and mending
Pit. No. 6: Finishing
31
12:04 Each plant will post a seniority list of all the employees working in that plant. These seniority lists will contain the name of the regular job of each employee. The lists will be posted in a place permitting each plant employee to verify his seniority. The list will be revised every four (4) months, e.g. the first (1st) of January, the first (1st) of May and the first (1st) of September of each year. A copy of the seniority lists of each plant will be sent to the Union when these are revised. The list posted will specify the title of the employee's regular and permanent job as well as, if need be, the one which he occupies on a temporary basis.
ARTICLE 13
LOSS OF SENIORITY
13:00 An employee's seniority shall be cancelled and his employment shall be terminated for any of the following reasons:
1.	If the employee quits,
2.	If the employee is discharged and his discharge is not reversed through the grievance or arbitration procedure,
3.	If the employee has been laid off and fail to return to work within seven (7) calendar days after he has been notified by the Company to do so through registered mail sent to the last address known by the Company, unless he indicates that he was unable to report to work for a reason beyond his control which is judged satisfactory by the Company.
32
4.	If the employee is absent from work for more than five (5) consecutive working days without providing a reason satisfactory to the Company for such absence,
5.	If the employee overstays a written leave of absence granted by the Company without securing an extension of such leave,
6.	If an employee having received a leave of absence works elsewhere he will lose all seniority unless he has a written permission from the Company to do such work.
13:01 An employee absent from his work for reasons of lay-off, sickness and accident will lose his seniority and his employment shall be terminated when the period of absence reaches:
a)	The period of time equivalent to the length of his seniority at the beginning of his absence, in the case of an employee with less than eighteen (18) months seniority.
b)	Twenty-two (22) months in the case of an employee with eighteen (18) months but less than five (5) years seniority.
c)	Thirty (30) months in the case of an employee with five (5) years but less than fifteen (15) years seniority.
d)	Thirty-six (36) months in the case of an employee with fifteen (15) years or more of seniority.
33
e)	If the absence is caused by an accident at work or an industrial illness as covered by the Workmen's Compensation and Professional Illness Act, the period of absence may reach:
1.	Twenty-four (24) months in the case where the employee has completed his probation period of sixty (60) working days and has less than five (5) years seniority.
2.	Thirty-six (36) months in the case where the employee has five (5) years or more of seniority.
13:02 When an employee is absent from work for reason of sickness or accident for a period greater than three (3) working days and less than the absence period allowed at 13:01 a), b), c), d), e), the Company will return him to his regular work subject to the following conditions:
a)	He will supply upon request a medical certificate giving the reason of his absence and confirming that he may return to his regular work.
b)	He has the necessary seniority.
c)	He has given notice to the Company of his intention to return to work at least forty-eight (48) hours prior to the commencement of the shift on which he is normally scheduled to work. When it is impossible for the employee to give such advance notice he will inform his immediate superior as soon as possible of his disposal to work.
34
13:03 The Company can request from an employee a medical certificate in case of abuse of frequent absences of three (3) days or less. When these absences are not justified, the employee is subject to disciplinary measures.
13:04 The Company may grant leave of absence to any employee for a legitimate personal reason. Any person who is absent with written permission shall not be considered to have been laid-off and seniority will continue to accumulate during his absence.
13:05 TRANSFER OF AN EMPLOYEE OUTSIDE OF THE BARGAINING UNIT AND CONDITIONS FOR HIS RETURN:
a)	An employee who has completed one (1) year of service with the Company who accepts an occupation outside of the bargaining unit will continue to accumulate all his plant and company seniority rights during twelve (12) months for an occupation of supervision or three (3) months for any other occupation. During the three (3) first months the employee will continue to pay the union dues.
b)	If an employee returns to an occupation inside the bargaining unit, at his request or at the Management's request, before having completed the prescribed period of twelve (12) months for an occupation of supervision or three (3) months for any other occupation, he/she retains all accumulated plant and Company seniority. In the case of an occupation of supervision the
35
employee will have to pay retroactively the union dues which normally would have been collected during the period of the transfer, e.g. between the moment deductions ceased and the return to an occupation inside the bargaining unit within the prescribed period. These deductions will be forwarded to the agent designated by the Union.
It is agreed that in such case, the employee will return to the occupation he held at the time of his transfer provided he has the required plant seniority. If his seniority does not allow him to return, he can then bump on another job an employee with less seniority.
Furthermore it is understood that any employee concerned cannot be eligible to more than one (1) prescribed period of a maximum of twelve (12) months and/or three (3) months whichever is applicable. It is understood that these periods cannot be consecutive.
c)	If the employee returns on an occupation on the bargaining unit after twelve (12) months, he will retain his company seniority and his plant seniority will be set at sixty (60) working days, this in order to allow him to precede employees which have not yet completed their approbation period. The employee concerned must return in priority in the plant where he has last worked while he was in the bargaining unit, in the case where this is not possible, he could then be considered in another plant where his services are required.
36
13:06 a) It shall be the duty of every employee to notify the Company promptly of any change of marital status, of address and telephone number.
b)	In order to exercise an effective control on changes and to maintain personnel files updated, the employees must complete once a year, a form to this effect confirming or correcting if need be, marital status, full address and phone number of each one.
c)	Any notice sent by the Company to an employee at his last address as recorded in the records of the Company shall be sufficient and effective notice.
ARTICLE 14
DISCHARGE AND DISCIPLINARY MEASURE
14:00 When a discharged employee claims that he has been unjustly dealt with, he may ask for and receive from the Company the reasons for his discharge. If the Union judges that such a discharge is sufficient reason for a grievance, it shall be directly taken up at step No. 2 of the grievance procedure outlined at article 10 of this agreement with the only exception that all discharge complaints must be submitted in the fifteen (15) working days following the dismissal, and if such a discharge is not deemed justified, the employee shall receive full compensation for the time lost.
37
14:01 All disciplinary measure dating back more than twenty-four (24) months will be removed from the employee's file and it will not be taken into account by the Company at any time.
14:02 When the Company decides to add any disciplinary measure confirmed by letter to an employee's file, a copy of the letter will then be sent to the Union as soon as possible.
14:03 When the Company decides to discharge an employee he will be informed by the division manager or if the case may be of the plant concerned, in presence of the union VicePresident of the plant and, in his absence, of another union representative of the plant, except when the person(s) invited does or do not show up for the meeting or unless circumstances force the Company to proceed without delay.
ARTICLE 15
PROMOTION AND LAY-OFF 15:00 DEFINITION OF THE TERM “VACANCY”
For the purpose of this clause, a vacancy may occur due to normal personnel turnover such as a person being retired, voluntary departure, death, promotion, dismissal, retrograded or transfer of employees to occupations not covered by this bargaining agreement, or to any other occupation whenever required by an increase in the number of employees on said occupation.
38
PART 1 PROMOTION
15:01 POSTING PROCEDURE
a)	All permanent vacancy which must be posted shall be for two (2) working days during the period from Monday to Friday. When the plant concerned operates with twelve (12) hour weekend shifts, according to schedule referred as “5/2", the notice of vacancy will remain posted on Saturday and Sunday.
In order to better control the minimum posting period of forty-eight (48) hours or ninety-six (96) hours whichever is applicable, dates and hours of the beginning and end of the posting will be specified on the job vacancy notice.
A copy of each vacancy notice will be given to the Union Vice-President of the plant concerned at the end of the posting period, this same posting comprising of the name of the candidate who accepted the job will be sent to the Union's office at the earliest convenience.
b)	PERMANENT VACANCY:
When a permanent vacancy is created on an occupation in the bargaining unit, it will be subjected to the above posting procedure.
The candidates who are interested in this vacancy must sign their names at the place reserved for this purpose on the posting. The
39
employee who is absent for reasons of sickness, accident, maternity leave or for any reasons judged acceptable is eligible following his plant seniority to the posted vacancy. However, he must be able to return to work within thirty (30) working days following the limited date of posting, or within forty-five (45) working days in the case of an employee absent from work due to an accident at work or a professional illness, according to the Workmen's Compensation and Professional Illness Act. However, in the event that the job vacancy has not been filled and that there is no employee on probation period at the time when the candidate actively returns to work following the period mentioned above, whichever is applicable, then he will remain eligible to the vacancy.
Furthermore, the limits of time specified in the paragraph above do not apply in the case of employees absent from work according to provisions of the Health and Safety at Work Act regarding the preventive withdrawal of pregnant employees.
The preceding does not however prevent the Company from filling the vacancy until the job is filled as per the posting procedure. This method of granting promotions will be respected in each plant.
40
c)	PERMANENT VACANCY with possibility of cancellation
When the possibility of a permanent vacancy is anticipated on an occupation in the bargaining unit for reasons such as: In the case where an employee accepts a position outside of the bargaining unit, or an employee having decided to take early retirement, or when training is necessary in advance because of the length of the training period, or in the case of serious illness or serious accident or for any other reason offering a reasonable doubt of a permanent vacancy. Such a vacancy will be submitted to the permanent posting procedure such as referred to at 15:01 a) and b). Reasons justifying such a posting procedure will be specified on the notice.
However, this notice will be automatically cancelled if the reasons stated are not maintained. In such a case, employees being promoted shall return to the job they occupied before being promoted on account of this posting.
15:02 The selection of the candidate shall be based on seniority, skill and aptitude required to perform the work. To judge the aptitude of the employee, it is understood that a suitable probation period will be allowed unless the candidate had already a probation period within the last twelve (12) months for this job and was unable to qualify for the occupation. However, if the job was affected by major technical changes
41
which automize the operation, the twelve (12) month period mentioned previously will not be considered. In a case where no candidate qualifies for the vacancy or if no employees have signed the notice of “vacancy”, the Company will hire a new employee to fulfill the “vacancy”.
15:03 a)Probation period at the time of promotion
An employee promoted to another job by following the procedures at 15:01 and 15:02 is eligible to a probation period varying according to the job. This working period cannot exceed sixty (60) working days unless a written agreement is reached between the plant manager and the Union Vice-President of the plant concerned. This written agreement should take place before the fifty-sixth (56th) working day of the probation period and a copy of the agreement will be mailed to the Union.
15:03 b) Decision period for an employee that qualifies himself.
If during the probation period the Company feels that the promoted employee is well enough qualified to fulfill the job satisfactorily, the concerned employee should be notified. Within the twenty (20) working days following this notice the employee shall random his decision if he stays on this job or if he prefers to return to his previous occupation. For means of control, the employee will sign a form to this effect.
42
15.04 a) When a temporary “vacancy” is foreseen to exceed forty (40) working days of an occupation in the bargaining unit, a “temporary vacancy” notice will be posted for two (2) working days during the period of Monday to Friday. When the plant concerned operates with twelve (12) hour weekend shifts, according to the schedule referred as “5/2”, the notice of job vacancy will remain posted on Saturday and Sunday in order to also cover employees working on these shifts. The choice of the applicant will be based on his capability of filling the job without training or with a minimum of training. The employee who obtained the job will be notified by his foreman within the next five (5) days.
-	In the case where the temporary vacancy aims to replace an employee absent due to sickness, maternity, accident and/or absence with permission, the duration will correspond to the period of absence of the regular employee and his name will be specified on the notice.
-	In the case where the temporary vacancy aims to cover a particular situation and/or to satisfy a production need, the duration of the temporary vacancy will be specified on the notice according to an evaluation which may be made and a brief description of the nature of the work to be done. Such posting will be revised by the parties in the six (6) months following its attribution afterwards the temporary vacancy will be posted once again
43
according to the provisions at item 15:01 a) unless it is agreed by the parties not to proceed with the posting.
b)	When a “vacancy” posted as “temporary vacancy” becomes a “permanent vacancy”, this same vacancy will be re-posted as a permanent vacancy according to the procedures at 15:01 and 15:02.
c)	When an employee is available to return to his regular job after an absence period, he goes back on the occupation he had before he left. The employee promoted temporarily to another job will be the first one to return to his previous job. Reasons for absence of an employee from his regular work can be: maternity, sickness, accident, lay-off, absence with permission, transfer temporarily to another occupation or any other reason judged to be acceptable.
d)	All new jobs created permanently and posted as a temporary job will be posted as permanent within a period not exceeding six (6) months after its attribution. It is also understood that the procedure provided at article 24:01 must be completed before proceeding with such a posting.
When this new job partially or totally eliminates existing jobs, the employees affected will be the first to be considered by order of seniority.
44
15:05 a) Length of validity for a notice of vacancy:
The names of candidates eligible appearing on the notice of vacancy remain valid as long as the vacancy is not filled. When the length of time between the date of the posting and the date where the candidate did not qualify himself or refused to fill the job exceeds four (4) months, a second notice will be posted in order to provide an opportunity to employees having completed their probation period to fill the vacancy before awarding the promotion to a new employee. When more than one (1) vacancy is created on the same occupation the number of required candidates must be specified otherwise each vacancy will be posted separately.
b)	If, during the probation period a lay-off occurs on the occupation where the employee was transferred in order to fill the job vacancy, he will return on his previous occupation while retaining for a period of six (6) months the right to return on the occupation he was transferred to, and this, so as to complete the appropriate probation period.
Furthermore, if the chosen candidate for the job vacancy did not benefit of a probation period six (6) months after the job assignment was given, then the notice of vacancy for that job will be cancelled and another notice will be posted.
45
15:06 Applicable for promotion granted to employees with less than one (1) year of continuous service with the Company:
Any new employee not having completed his probation period (sixty (60) working days) is not eligible to apply for any job vacancy.
15:07 THE APPLICABLE RATE WHEN A
PROMOTION OR A BUMPING OCCURS
a)	An employee promoted to a job of tradesmen will be paid according to the progression rates stated in appendix "1
b)	An employee promoted to a job paid on a regular hourly rate will be paid eighty percent (80%) of the regular hourly rate of the job to which he is being promoted and this until he is qualified. This percentage during a period of time not exceeding the first five (5) days worked on this new job. However the employee will be paid at the regular hourly rate of the job to which he is being promoted as soon as he is qualified.
Whenever an employee is promoted to a job on which he is already qualified and can fulfill without training, he will be paid according to the regular hourly rate of the job right from the beginning.
c)	An employee promoted to a job being paid with a base rate plus production bonus will be paid according to the base rate of the job to which he is promoted and will receive the
46
production bonus that he earned as he progresses and qualifies himself.
15:08 An employee promoted to a new job by following the procedures at items 15:01 and 15:02 that qualified himself and remained on this new job will not be eligible to apply for another job for a period of time proportional to the length of time required for his approbation period and to random his decision. The ratio being used to determine the minimum length of time for an employee to remain on a new job shall be one (1) month for each week required for the approbation period and for him to random his decision according to item 15:03 a) and b). However the minimum duration established will not exceed eight (8) calendar months.
EXYMPLB: THESIS
If an employee is promoted according to the mentioned procedure and requires three (3) weeks to do the work satisfactorily, and takes an extra week to inform the Company that he wishes to remain on this new job, e.g. that the Company has waited a total period of four (4) weeks before being informed officially if the employee remains on this new job; according to the ratio being used the promoted employee shall remain a minimum of four (4) months on this new occupation.
47
SUMMARY:
Week of approbation
(+)
Week of decision:
(x)
Ratio:
Months minimum:	4 months
15:09 When an employee applies and receives a job on which he is already qualified; and has previously accomplished that job satisfactorily, item 15:07 does not apply, however, the employee shall not be eligible to apply for another job for a period of time proportional to the length of time required for him to random his decision to the Company once he has filled this vacancy. The ratio being used to determine the minimum length of time for an employee to remain on a job under these conditions will be one (1) month for each full week it takes him to render his decision.
EXAMPLE: HYPOTHESIS
Week of decision:	1
(x)
Ratio:	1
Months minimum:	1 month
3
1
1
48
15:10 TRADESMEN
a)	DEFINITION: All trades recognized by the Department of Labour such as: Electrician, stationary engineer, pipefitter. These form the tradesmen covered by the present collective agreement.
To be recognized as a tradesman the employee must possess his competence card and conform himself to the license requirements as stipulated and defined by the Department of Labour and Man Power of Quebec.
The tradesmen employees must be fully qualified, well informed and competent in all aspects of their trade and able to assist and direct the efforts of employees on probation as well as helpers or apprentices that are assigned to help them, and must accomplish all miscellaneous work related to the requirements of the job.
b)	PROCEDURE TO BE PROMOTED AS TRADESMAN
When a “permanent vacancy” is created on one of the jobs mentioned at 15:10 a), the Company will post the job opening in the respective plants according to procedure at 15:01 and 15:05. Afterwhich if the job is not fulfilled the Company will then post this job in all the plants in order to determine if within the other employees some of them have the necessary prerequisites and are interested in the job. The selection of the candidate shall be based on the prerequisites for
49
the job and also according to the competence of the candidate based on his practical experience previously acquired.
c)	RIGHT TO BUMP IN CASE OF LAY-OFF
The tradesmen employees with competency card working as an electrician, stationary engineer, pipefitter are not eligible to apply for other occupations, except in cases where the employee is no longer capable of accomplishing the different tasks related to the requirements of his occupation due to for example sickness or accident resulting in an important loss of his general capacities or for any other reasons judged acceptable. However, in case of lay-off, they may prevail themselves of their seniority to qualify themselves as per item 15:1 5:
-	The electricians, on an occupation at plant
No. 2,
-	The stationary engineers, on an occupation at plant No. 6,
-	The pipefitters will receive the same privileges according to their seniority on an occupation in their respective plant.
d)	TRADESMEN CLASSIFICATION
List of jobs or functions according to knowledge and competence as tradesmen classification as stated at appendix "1
50
ELECTRICIAN WITH (LICENCE "C1")
-	Lead
-	More than one (1) year experience
-	Less than one (1) year experience STATIONARY ENGINEER
-	Stationary engineer (2nd class)
-	Stationary engineer (3rd class)
-	Stationary engineer (4th class)
PIPEFITTER (JOURNEYMAN'S LICENCE)
-	Pipefitter lead
-	Pipefitter with more than one (1) year
experience
-	Pipefitter with less than one (1) year
experience
e)	JOB REQUIRING SPECIAL TRAINING
1.	Jobs requiring special training are the following:
-	Loom fixer (rapier and projectile)
-	Loom fixer (projectile)
51
- Maintenance mechanic:	- Class A
-	Class B
-	Class C
-	Apprentice
2.	In the event of a “permanent vacancy” on the maintenance mechanic or loom fixer job, the Company will post this vacancy according to the procedure foreseen at items 15:01 and 15:02 in the respective plants.
The choice of the applicant for one or the other job will be made from prerequisites based on aptitudes, knowledge and ability necessary to accomplish the job. The candidates interested in any vacancy at one or the other job will have to be submitted to the appropriate written tests in order to have their aptitudes and knowledge evaluated in relation with mechanics. Following this, the choice of the applicant will be based on plant seniority among those who satisfactorily possess the necessary prerequisites. In order to be promoted to the previous jobs, the applicant must comply with the qualification requirements set by the Company.
For the maintenance mechanic job a vacancy can be created, depending on the case, for class A or apprentice. The parties could by mutual agreement waive this rule and proceed with the posting of a specific class according to the need.
It is agreed that the employees occupying the jobs requiring special training must carry out the various tasks related to the requirements of their respective job.
52
3.	a) Only employees classified as “Class A” of the Maintenance mechanic job are not eligible to apply for the other jobs. The other employees promoted to the jobs requiring special training, except for Maintenance mechanic - apprentice, are not eligible to apply for other jobs during a period of three (3) years following the date when they are promoted to one of these jobs. However, the previous does not apply in the case where the employee is no longer able to carry out the various tasks related to the requirements of his job due to for example illness or accident leading to an important loss of his general capabilities or for any other reason deemed acceptable by the Company. However, in the case of a lay-off, the employees will prevail themselves of their seniority to qualify, following item 15:15, on a job in their respective plant.
b)	When lay-offs become necessary on a job requiring special training, the qualified employees with less plant seniority will be the first layed off.
c)	As for the “Maintenance mechanic” job, the apprentices will be the first layed off starting with those with less plant seniority. If all apprentices are layed off and that it is necessary to lay off other employees on this job, then employees classified as “Class C" will be the next to be layed-off starting with those with less plant seniority. If the situation requires it, this same procedure will apply to employees classified as “Class B” and, if applicable, it will then apply to those of “Class A”.
53
4.	The rules governing the recognition of qualifications, competence and knowledge are defined and set by the Company for the apprentice and classes A,B,C levels of the Maintenance mechanic job as well as for the loom fixer (rapier and projectile) and loom fixer (projectile) jobs.
5.	Any employee promoted to the Maintenance mechanic job could be eligible to a change of classification, according to the order of advancement, which is, from the “Apprentice” level to Class C, from Class C to Class B and from Class B to Class A.
In order to pass from one classification to another, the concerned employee will have to have worked for a minimum of twelve (12) months in the same classification and succeeded to the satisfaction of the Company the theoretical and practical tests required so as to accede to each concerned classification.
The appropriate theoretical and practical tests will be prepared by the Company in conjunction with a recognized educational institution in the field of maintenance mechanic. The tests will be administered by the specialists in this matter outside of the Company.
6.	The employee who did not succeed the theoretical and practical tests required to accede to a certain classification will not be eligible to undergo once again the tests prescribed for a period of four (4) calendar months following the
54
date the test results which he was submitted to were confirmed.
7.	A committee proceeds with the evaluation of classification tests drawn up according to the
present item. It is formed of six (6) members, with three (3) Company representatives, three (3) employees from jobs requiring special training designated by the Union and a specialist in this field outside of the Company. The committee meetings are held when needed, on request from the Company representatives designated to coordinate the committee's work. The committee's mandate is to ensure appropriate evaluation of classification tests before administering them to employees concerned, these having to be true to qualifications, competence and knowledge criterias defined and set by the Company for the concerned jobs.
8.	The employee concerned will be informed by the specialists in this field outside of the Company, of the result of the test he underwent. Furthermore, on the Union's request, he will be informed by the same specialists of the result obtained following the evaluation done with the help of the appropriate written tests.
15:11 For the requirements of the present agreement, the Company and the Union agree that under normal working conditions, the list of jobs classified by plant represents all jobs assigned to the workers for which the Union is certified.
55
Also, it is agreed that these jobs will not be carried out by foremen when an employee can do the work and is available. For the upkeep and smooth running of operations, this will not have the effect of preventing them to carry out jobs in case of circumstances outside one's control, acts of God, or when it is a question of training personnel, or verifying the state of various equipment, or proceeding with experimentation work, of development, of quality control, or other research work deemed necessary by the Company.
Whenever a new job is created on a permanent basis, and procedure at item 24:01 is completed, it will automatically be added to the list of jobs of the plant concerned.
PLANTS - CLEYN & TINKER INC.
PLANT #1-TOP DYEING
Polyester balling Wool balling Conventional top dyer Conventional top loader lima sliver dyer lima sliver dyer helper Vigoureux Backwasher Combing
56
Conversion
Finishing after combing Machine cleaner Combing preparation Serracant operator Warehouse
Warehouse (Yarn packer)
Maintenance mechanic Packer
Preparation, combing and finishing (combined jobs)
Fallers repairer
PL ANTS - CLEYN & TINKER INC.
PLANT #2 - CONVENTIONAL SPINNING
Doubling
Roving
Single winder Plant janitor Yarn packer Oiler Pindraft
57
Yarn handler
Maintenance mechanic Packer - Yarn handler Twisting operator Fancy twisting Electrician Truck driver Office janitor
General helper (maintenance)
Spinning frame operator Plant janitor (weekend)
Package winding Machine cleaner
PLANTS - CLEYN & TINKER INC.
PLANT #4 - WEAVING
Warper operator Off-loom inspection Warper beamer lead Drawing-in machine (pattern)
Warp preparation Weft hauler Weaver
Warp hanger (lead)
58
Warp hanger Chain maker Reconer operator
Drawing-in machine setting and harness handler
Loom fixer (rapier and projectile)
2 years or more of experience
Loom fixer (projectile)
2 years or more of experience
Loom fixer (rapier and projectile)
1 year but less than 2 years' experience
Loom fixer (projectile)
1 year but less than 2 years' experience
Loom fixer (rapier and projectile)
Less than one (1) year of experience
Loom fixer (projectile)
Less than one (1) year of experience
Maintenance mechanic
Oiler and combined jobs
Yarn handler
Piece hauler
Pattern weaver
Warp hanger - tyer
Drawing-in machine
Pattern warper (Suzuki)
59
Janitor
Warp hanger and fixer (pattern)
Warp tyer and re-warper Warp hanger - Tyer (pattern)
Floater
Yarn handler and warper beamer (combined) Sweeper
PLANTS - CLEYN & TINKER INC.
PLANT #5 - BURLING AND MENDING
Burling and Mending Combined jobs on perch Passer
Day mending
Piece handler
Rolling machine operator
Combined jobs (Samples and Floater)
PLANTS - CLEYN & TINKER INC.
PLANT #6 - DYEING AND FINISHING
Washer
Greige room helper Scutcher
60
Dryer
Shear
Dry cleaner (combined jobs)
Rough perch
Finish perch
Special mending
Specking
Wrapping
Rolling machine
Rolling machine (double)
Shipping Stock room Floater
Maintenance mechanic Stationary engineer Pipefitter
Apprentice pipefitter Sample room helper Janitor
Piece dyeing under pressure
Piece dyeing under pressure (samples)
Package dyeing operator
61
Continuous crabbing and washing
Permanent decating
Continuous decating and sponging
Floater - Operator
Package dyeing helper
Continuous decating
Dyes and chemicals drug room
General helper
Lead grey room Y.D.
Lead grey room P.D.
Full decator / singeing (combined)
PART
LAY-OFF
15:12 When a lay-off becomes necessary on a given job, an employee who has not yet worked a period of sixty (60) cumulative working days, or forty (40) cumulative working days when the employee works twelve (12) hours per day according to the weekend schedule referred as “5/2", on the occupation to which he was promoted or assigned to by the Company will be the first to be laid-off according to article 15:13 or the first to return on his previous job according to article 15:14.
62
15:13 LAY-OFF -TWO (2) DAYS OR LESS:
In case of lay-off of two (2) working days or less the Company shall have the right to lay-off employees without regard of their seniority.
The employee subjected to a lay-off has the right to replace another employee with less seniority on a job which he previously filled satisfactorily on his regular shift in progress at the time of the lay-off.
15:14 LAY-OFF OF MORE THAN TWO (2) DAYS:
When a lay-off of more than two (2) working days whose duration is foreseen to be less than two (2) weeks becomes necessary, the employees with the least plant seniority on the job will be the first laid-off or demoted. The employee subjected to a lay-off has the right to replace another employee with less seniority on a job which he previously filled satisfactorily.
15:15 When a lay-off is foreseen to exceed a period of two (2) weeks, or if the lay-off exceeds two (2) weeks, the employee laid-off will have the possibility of being trained on a job occupied by an employee with less seniority in that same plant, as long as there is no other job in the plant to which he can be transferred without training and that he has completed his probation period at the time of the lay-off.
63
a)	CASE WHERE THE EMPLOYEE IS ELIGIBLE TO A FIFTEEN (15) DAY TRAINING AT THE TIME OF THE LAY-OFF:
In the case where the employee is qualified on one (1) or many jobs, but cannot bump because these jobs are occupied by employees with more seniority, he will be eligible to only one (1) training period of fifteen (15) days on another job occupied by an employee with less plant seniority, and this, provided the one claiming the training has completed his probation period at the time of lay-off.
b)	CASE WHERE THE EMPLOYEE IS ELIGIBLE TO A TWENTY (20) DAY TRAINING AT THE TIME OF THE LAY-OFF:
1.	In the case where the employee is qualified on one (1) or many jobs but the only one on which he can bump, because the other jobs are occupied by employees with more seniority represents an important reduction in salary or if the working schedules are less favorable than those of his regular job, he will be eligible to only one (1) training period of twenty (2) days on another job occupied by an employee with less plant seniority, and this, provided the one claiming the training has a plant seniority of five (5) years or more at the time of lay-off.
2.	In the case where the only job on which the employee is qualified, is the one he has been working on for a minimum of five (5) years at the time of the lay-off, he will be eligible to only one
64
(1) training period of twenty (20) days on a job occupied by an employee with less plant seniority at the time of lay-off. However if the employee concerned was incapable of qualifying himself, he may prevail himself of a second training period of fifteen (15) days on another job occupied by an employee with less seniority.
This item refers to training on jobs which an employee can normally qualify himself in a period of fifteen (15) and twenty (20) days whichever is applicable. When the employee does not succeed in qualifying himself within the provided period, he becomes once again subjected to being laid-off.
c)	EMPLOYEE'S RIGHT TO HIS REGULAR JOB
FOLLOWING A BUMPING:
When an employee is laid-off of his regular job and bumps an employee with less seniority on another job, in such case the employee will retain his right to return to his job during a period based on his plant seniority, as specified at article 13:01. Once this period is expired the job on which he has bumped becomes his regular job.
d)	The parties agree that in the event of lay-offs affecting employees working on the weekend twelve (12) hour shifts according to the '‘5/2” schedule as defined at item 22:00 d), they will not be obliged to bump on the same job schedule during a normal week from Monday to Friday which they occupied on the "5/2“
65
schedule. The employees will be able to exercise their right to bump according to their seniority in conformity with item 15:15.
15:16 When a temporary reduction in production needs occurs requiring less working hours on a given job, the choice to remain at work or to voluntarily accept to work less than forty (40) hours per week will be offered on a voluntary basis and option can be exercised based on seniority.
However, if the lack of work lasts three (3) consecutive weeks and if employees concerned wish to work normal forty (40) hour weeks, the Company will then proceed to lay-offs in order to offer a normal working week to employees that are not being laid-off.
15:17 When laid-off, an employee will receive a minimum notice of forty-eight (48) hours as long as it is reasonably possible to do so. The employee subjected to a laid-off wishing to prevail himself of his right to bump must make his decision known as soon as possible in order to allow a suitable notice to be given to the employee laid-off who has less seniority.
The Company will advise in the shortest time possible the employees who have the less plant seniority of the possibility of them being subjected to a lay-off. The names of the employees laid-off for a period exceeding two (2) working days will be posted.
66
15:18 RECALLS TO WORK:
a)	In a lay-off situation, when work becomes once again available on a job, the qualified employee with the most plant seniority will be the first one recalled to work. In the case where none of the employees laid-off are qualified, then they will be eligible following their seniority to receive the training necessary to qualify themselves.
However if the recall of qualified employees, due to the fact that work becomes once again available on a particular job, is scheduled to last more than ten (10) calendar weeks, then the nonqualified employee on this job but with the most plant seniority will have the possibility of receiving the necessary training to qualify himself on this job as long as his plant seniority is of seven (7) years or more and that he can normally qualify in a period of fifteen (15) working days. It is understood that the employee having received training to qualify according to the preceding will fill the job on a temporary basis until work is available on the job which he occupied at the time of lay-off.
b)	When an employee who has more seniority than others on a given job accepts a voluntary lay-off because of a reduction in activities, he must return to work as soon as his regular job is again available. The employee laid-off must return to work before the Company proceeds to recruit a new employee. When the employee returns temporarily on another job:
67
-	He is not considered as a permanent
employee,
-	He is not entitled to bump,
-	He is again laid-off when the temporary work is completed.
When an employee returns to work following a job posting, he may:
-	Accept to fill the posting on a permanent
basis and that job becomes his,
- Ask to fill the job on a temporary basis till the activities pick up on the occupation he had at the time of his lay-off.
In the case of permanent closure of a job, it is highly recommended that the employee subjected to a lay-off immediately prevails himself of his right to bump according to his seniority, any employee who refuses to prevail himself of this privilege and who opts for a layoff, loses his right to bump and when recalled to work the last available job becomes his regular job.
ARTICLE 16
BULLETIN BOARD
16:00 The Company accepts to allow the Union to use the bulletin boards which may be locked, 68
and this, for their usage exclusively. These boards are placed in each plant and the Union may post notices and announcements regarding its usual affairs, as long as these notices are signed either by the President of the local or by an authorized officer of the Union and that the Company receives a copy of the notice or announcement the preceding working day.
ARTICLE 17
BEREAVEMENT PAY
17:00 ELIGIBLE EMPLOYEE:
The Company agrees to grant a bereavement pay to the employee who has completed three (3) months of continuous service with the Company at the time when the death occurs in his family.
Furthermore, it is understood that any employee who has not completed three (3) months of continuous service at the time of death of a member of his family may absent himself from work at such a time, according to dispositions to this effect as per the "Loi sur les Normes du travail”.
17:01 ELIGIBLE PERIOD:
a)	The reference period for bereavement pay is calculated in consecutive calendar days which start following the death in the employee's family and will end at 7:00 am or 8:00 am, whichever is applicable, on the date following the funeral.
69
b)	However, exception is made for the reference period in the case of the death of spouse where the employee's motivated absence will be a maximum of five (5) working days in the seven (7) consecutive calendar days which will start following the death whereas in the case of the death of son, daughter, the employee's motivated absence will be a maximum of four (4) working days in the seven (7) consecutive calendar days which will start following the death.
17:02 RATE AND HOURS PAID TO WHICH EMPLOYEE IS ELIGIBLE
a)	The employee concerned is eligible to this bereavement payment provided that each days of absence for reasons of sympathy would normally have been a working day for the employee concerned.
b)	The amount of pay to which the employee is entitled is equal to the number of hours as provided according to his regular daily schedule times his hourly regular or average rate, whichever is applicable, at straight time for each day that would normally have been a working day for the employee concerned.
17:03 In order to control foreseen absences as per provisions at items 17:04 and 17:05, Management may require sufficient proof which will be subjected to verification.
70
17:04 MAXIMUM NUMBER OF DAYS FOR BEREAVEMENT PAY
a)	Five (5) days at the time of death of spouse or of common-law spouse.
b)	Four (4) days at the time of death of son(s), daughter(s).
c)	Three (3) days at the time of death of father, mother, brother(s), sister(s), father-in-law, mother-in-law, father or mother of common-law spouse.
It is understood that the employee may request an absence from work for one (1) additional day, without pay, at the time of death or funeral of his father, mother, brother or sister.
d)	Two (2) days at the time of death of brother-in-law, sister-in-law, step-mother, step-father, brother or sister of common-law spouse, father or mother of second common-law spouse.
e)	One (1) day for the funeral at the time of death of son-in-law, daughter-in-law, grandchildren, grand-parents of the employee and grand-parents of the spouse or the common-law spouse.
17:05 In the event of death in the family as per provisions described at 17:04 a), b), c), and d), the employee may have reported to the day of the burial or incineration, whichever is applicable, one (1) of the days which he has not
71
made use of out of the maximum number of days he is entitled to above. He will then be entitled to payment provided that the day of absence at the time of burial or incineration would have normally been a work day for the employee.
ARTICLE 18
REPORTING ALLOWANCE
18:00 Any employee who reports to work for his regular shift without having been advised beforehand that his services were not required, may be assigned to another job for a period of four (4) hours, for which he will receive an amount equivalent to four (4) hours of work at his regular rate. However if no work is assigned to him, the employee will receive in any event a minimum equivalent to four (4) hours of pay at his regular rate, based on his average hourly earnings if he is on piece work. Nevertheless, the dispositions of this clause do not apply in the case of stoppage due to heating, electricity, fire, flood, or any other condition of any nature out of the Company's control.
ARTICLE 19
MINIMUM CALL PAY
19:00 When an employee is recalled to work outside his normal working hours, he shall be paid a minimum of three (3) hours at the rate of time and one half (11/2) of his hourly or average rate, as the case may be, provided that if
72
required by the Company, he performs the work he is assigned to.
ARTICLE 20 STATUTORY HOLIDAYS
20:00 EMPLOYEE ELIGIBLE TO THE PAYMENT:
To be eligible to the payment of the statutory holidays and other holidays specified in this article, the employee must conform to the following requirements:
a)	The employee must be working for the Company and have completed twelve (12) weeks of service.
b)	The employee must work his complete regular shift immediately preceding and following the said holiday, except in the case of absence with permission or when the employee provides a reason satisfactory to the Company to justify his absence.
However, when two (2) holidays or more follow each other, if the employee does not come to work during his complete regular shift immediately preceding and following such holidays, he will lose one (1) holiday pay for each day absent, maximum two (2) days.
c)	In a case of lay-off, an employee will be eligible if his period of absence does not exceed thirty (30) consecutive calendar days immediately prior to the holiday.
73
d)	In the case of illness, accident, or maternity attested by a doctor's certificate, the employee will be eligible if his period of absence does not exceed sixty (60) consecutive calendar days, immediately preceding the holiday.
20:01 HOURLY RATE FOR TIME OFF:
a)	The eligible employee will be paid straight time according to his regular hourly rate, or his hourly average for the employee being paid according to the bonus system.
b)	The employee on trial period (as described at item 9:06 a)) when a statutory holiday occurs will be paid straight time according to the highest of the following rate whichever is applicable:
1.	At his hourly rate preceding the introduction of the trial period,
2.	His average rate based on his average earnings of the thirteen (13) weeks preceding the trial period,
(OR)
3.	His average hourly rate based on his average earnings of the thirteen (13) weeks preceding the holiday.
74
20:02 HOURS PAID DURING STATUTORY HOLIDAYS TO ELIGIBLE EMPLOYEES:
a)	Applicable to employees scheduled during the period from Monday to Friday:
When a statutory holiday occurs, the eligible employee shall be paid for the standard number of hours which he normally works, based on the preceding thirteen (13) weeks. When the average of daily hours worked based on thirteen (13) weeks is less than eight hours and a half (8 1/2), the eligible employee shall receive eight (8) hours of pay. When the average of daily hours worked based on thirteen (13) weeks is eight and a half (8 1/2) hours or more, the eligible employee shall receive nine (9) hours of pay for the holiday.
b)	Applicable to employees scheduled on twelve (12) hour shifts during the weekend schedule referred as “5/2":
When a statutory holiday occurs, the eligible employee will be paid for each statutory holiday an amount equivalent to eight (8) hours at regular rate, straight time.
Statutory and paid holidays are foreseen to be observed week days, therefore, Saturdays and Sundays are considered as normal working days for all employees working on the weekend schedule, referred as "5/2".
20:03 Statutory holidays and paid holidays foreseen for the duration of the collective
75
agreement will be observed and paid following the calendar established for each year of the collective agreement, The list of these holidays and statutory holidays is the following:
**1. St-Jean-Baptiste *2. Confederation *3.	Labour Day
*4. Thanksgiving
5.	Day before Christmas
*6.	Christmas
7.	Day after Christmas
8.	Day before New Year
*9.	New Year's Day
10.	Day after New Year
*11.	Good Friday
12.	Easter Monday
13.	Three (3) floating days
&	as per provisions at
14.	item 20:04 for each of the
&	four (4) years of the
15.	collective agreement
(**)	National Holiday
(*) This asterisk indicates the statutory holidays as per the "Loi sur les normes du Travail”.
76
a) From May 6 1996 to May 4 1997, fifteen (15) statutory & paid holidays
Nb. of statutory & oaid holidavs	Day observed
1. St-Jean-Baptiste	Monday 24-06-96
2. Confederation	Monday 01-07-96
3. Labour Day	Monday 02-09-96
4. Thanksgiving Day	Monday 14-10-96
5. Day before Christmas	Tuesday 24-12-96
6. Christmas	Wednesday 25-12-96
7. Day after Christmas	Thursday 26-12-96
8. Day before New Year	Tuesday 31-12-96
9. New Year's Day	Wednesday 01-01-97
77	
10. Day after New Year	Thursday 02-01-97
11. Good Friday	Friday 28-03-97
12.	Easter Monday 13.	Floating holiday 14.	Floating holiday 15.	Floating holiday	Monday 31-03-97
b) From May 5 1997 to May 3 1998, fifteen (15) statutory & paid holidays.
Nb. of statutory & oaid holidavs	Day observed
1. St-Jean-Baptiste	Tuesday 24-06-97
2. Confederation (observed)	Monday 30-06-97
3. Labour Day	Monday 01-09-97
4. Thanksgiving Day	Monday 13-10-97
5. Day before Christmas 78	Wednesday 24-12-97
6. Christmas	Thursday 25-12-97
7. Day after Christmas	Friday 26-12-97
8. Day before New Year	Wednesday 31-12-97
9. New Year's Day	Thursday 01-01-98
10. Day after New Year	Friday 02-01-98
11. Good Friday	Friday 10-04-98
12. Easter Monday	Monday 13-04-98
13.	Floating holiday
14.	Floating holiday
15.	Floating holiday
c)	From May 4 1998 to May 2 1999, fifteen (15) statutory & paid holidays.
Nb. of statutory	Day
& paid holidays	observed
1.	St-Jean-Baptiste	Wednesday
24-06-98
79
2.	Confederation (observed)
3.	Labour Day
4.	Thanksgiving Day
5.	Day before Christmas
6.	Christmas
7.	Day after Christmas (observed)
8.	Day before New Year
9.	New Year's Day
10.	Day after New Year (observed)
11.	Good Friday
12.	Easter Monday
Friday
03-07-98
Monday
07-09-98
Monday
12-10-98
Thursday
24-	12-98
Friday
25-	12-98
Tuesday
25-12-98
Thursday
31-12-98
Friday
01-	01-99
Wednesday
30-12-98
Friday
02-	04-99
Monday
05-04-99
80
13.	Floating holiday
14.	Floating holiday
15.	Floating holiday
d)	From May 3 1999 to May 7 2000, fifteen (15) statutory & paid holidays.
Nb. of statutory	Day
& paid holidays	observed
1.	St-Jean-Baptiste	Thursday
24-06-99
2.	Confederation
(observed)
3.	Labour Day
4.	Thanksgiving Day
5.	Day before Christmas
Friday
02-07-99
Monday
06-09-99
Monday
11-10-99
Friday
24-12-99
6.	Christmas (observed)
Monday
27-12-99
7.	Day after Christmas (observed)
Tuesday
28-12-99
8.	Day before New Year
9.	New Year's Day
(observed)
10.	Day after New Year (observed)
11.	Good Friday
12.	Easter Monday
Friday
31-12-99
Wednesday
29-	12-99
Thursday
30-	12-99
Friday
21-04-2000
Monday
24-04-2000
13.	Floating holiday
14.	Floating holiday
15.	Floating holiday
20:04 FLOATING HOLIDAY
The choice of prevailing himself of the floating holidays is left to the discretion of the employee.
In the case where he wishes to prevail himself of a holiday he must request it forty-eight (48) hours in advance, provided that the following conditions are being respected:
a)	Maximum of one (1) employee per job, per shift, per department.
b)	Whenever there is more than one (1) employee making the request for the same day, plant seniority will prevail.
c)	It is understood that these holidays are noncumulative and can not be carried from one year to the next based on dates of each year of collective agreement.
d)	In the case where the employee has not prevailed himself of these floating holidays by the end of each year of collective agreement, the Company will pay him the amount to which he is entitled.
e)	When an employee observed his floating holiday on Holy Saturday, eight (8) hours will be added to the Good Friday holiday hours and to normal hours worked during the week for computation of overtime. In this particular case the restricting conditions provided at a) and b) of this item are not applicable. This is to maintain acquired right concerning Holy Saturday.
f)	The floating holidays to which the employee is entitled to may be fractioned in portions of four (4) hours for a given day at his request.
20:05 If the observance of a holiday as shown at article 20:03 occurs during an employee’s vacation period, any holiday allowance payable shall be added to his holiday pay, or, should he so request, an additional day off with holiday pay shall be granted to him at a time convenient to the Company and to the employee.
83
20:06 Statutory and paid holidays mentioned at item 20:03 a), b), c) and d), with the exception of the floating holidays, will be observed by stopping the Company's normal operations during a period of twenty-four (24) consecutive hours.
In order to give an equitable earning opportunity to all employees working on each different shift according to their, working schedule, the period of twenty-four (24) hours is determined as follows depending if the holiday is observed on Monday or on Friday:
a)	When a holiday is observed on the Monday, the 24 consecutive hours of the calendar day will be considered as the observation period. All work performed on the shift starting at midnight (12:00 pm) on Monday at the end of the holiday, shall be considered as the shift starting at midnight (12:00 pm) Sunday, and this work will be performed on a voluntary basis. The normal working week will start at the beginning of the regular shift at 7:00 am or 8:00 am whichever is applicable on Tuesday.
b)	When a holiday is observed on the Friday, the 24 consecutive hours of the observation period will start at 7:00 am or 8:00 am at the end of the regular shift on Friday, and will be extended for 24 consecutive hours. In such case all work performed from 7:00 am or 8:00 am according to the beginning of the regular shift on Saturday will be on a voluntary basis.
84
ARTICLE 21
ANNUAL VACATION WITH PAY
21:00 The Company's employees will be entitled to a vacation period based on the duration of continuous service accomplished in the reference year.
SENIORITY
a) Less than one (1) year
b)	One (1) year but less than five (5) years
c)	Five (5) years but less than fourteen (14) years
d)	Fourteen (14) years but less than twenty-five (25) years
e)	Twenty-five (25) years or more
21:00 a) For the vacation period, employees will be paid following a percentage (%) of their gross earnings accomplished in the reference year. The percentage (%) varying according to the duration of continuous service with the Company.
85
VACATION
PERIOD
One day of vacation per month of service
Two (2) weeks Three (3) weeks
Four (4) weeks
Five (5) weeks
For interpretation purposes and for calculation of the percentage (%) of vacation pay, the reference year for the first year of the collective agreement will extend from July 1 1995 to June 30 1996.
b) Applicable to employees absent for reasons of illness, accident or maternity only. The employee absent for reasons of illness, or accident certified by a doctor's paper for a period of seven (7) consecutive weeks or more during the twelve (12) months preceding June 30th will be paid for a number of hours determined as per his seniority. The rate used will be: The average of the last thirteen (13) weeks worked at December 31st, plus the average of the last thirteen (13) weeks worked at June 30th, divided by two (2) giving the average hourly rate to be used for calculation of his vacation pay.
86
Applicable for the duration of the collective agreement, from May 6 1996 to May 7 2000:
SENIORITY
21:00	(21:01 a ) (21:01 b)
HOLIDAY % of G.E. Hours *
Less than (1) year
1 year but less than 3 years
3 years but less than 5 years
5 years but less than 10 years
10 years but less than 14 years
14 years but less than 18 years
18 years but less than 21 years
21 years but less than 25 years
25 years but less than 30 years
30 years and more
One day of holiday per month of service
2 wks.
2	wks.
3	wks.
3	wks.
4	wks. 4 wks.
4	wks.
5	wks. 5 wks.
4%
4%
5.5%
6.5%
7.5%
8.5%
9.5%
10.5%
11.5%
Nil
80
*72
110
*99
130
'117
150
135
170
153
190
171
210 1189
220 • 198
230
■207
(*) “5/2" Schedule
87
21:02 a) The third (3rd) week vacation specified at 21:00 c), the fourth (4th) week vacation specified at 21:00 d) and the fifth (5th) week vacation specified at 21:00 e) shall be taken at the date determined by mutual agreement between the employee concerned and the Company.
b)	Employees eligible to a third (3rd) week or to a third (3rd) and a fourth (4th) week or to a third (3rd), a fourth (4th) and a fifth (5th) week’s vacation will have the privilege to request one week's vacation pay at Christmas. Employees wishing to prevail themselves to this right, shall make a request to this effect at least one (1) week in advance, and this period will then be counted as a vacation period. This does not affect in any way the amount that the employee will receive for his statutory holidays.
c)	Applicable to employees scheduled on twelve (12) hour weekend shift referred as "5/211:
The two (2) weekend days, Saturday and Sunday, constitute a normal work week for employees scheduled on shift referred as "5/2" and will be considered on this same basis to determine the number of weeks of vacation to which they are entitled.
However, the calculation of vacation pay for these employees will be based on the percentage (%) of gross earnings accomplished during the reference year considering seniority as per provisions of article 21:01 a).
88
Furthermore, provisions at article 21:01 b) will apply if need be, to employees working on shift referred as "5/2" and the number of hours determined according to seniority is indicated by an asterisk (*).
21:03 The Company agrees to inform the employees before April 15th of each year of the annual vacation period.
The employee with the most plant seniority on an occupation will take precedence on an employee with less plant seniority on the same occupation as to the choice of dates for his third and/or fourth and/or fifth week of vacation. The Company will ask the employees concerned to make their choice of dates known before April 30th of each year and the Company will post before May 15th the list stating the choices of dates.
21:04 The duration of continuous service of the employee with the Company is calculated as of June 30th. It is also as of that date that the vacation pays will be calculated based on the gross earnings made during the previous twelve (12) months.
The reference period for the taking of additional weeks of vacation will extend from July 1 st of the current year to June 30th of the following year.
21:05 If the employee makes arrangements with the employer to work the third week of his vacation and any other additional week he is
89
entitled to, he will not be laid-off unless he is subject by seniority.
21:06 A separate cheque will be handed to the employee leaving for vacation for each week he is entitled to and this cheque will be dated in order that it may be cashed the Thursday preceding such weeks of vacation.
a)	Normally, the cheques for each week of vacation he is entitled to will be handed to each employee during the week preceding the closing of plants for annual vacation period.
b)	However, the employees who remain eligible to a number of weeks of vacation greater than the number of weeks of plant closure, and whose vacation will be taken at a later date as per mutual agreement, they may if they so wish have the Company retain the number of corresponding vacation pays, up to their departure for vacation.
In order that these vacation pays be retained by the Company, the employee concerned will have to inform his foreman and advise the plant manager.
21:07 Except for cases of plant closure for the annual vacation period, the employee having agreed to take his additional weeks of vacation he is entitled to at a determined date, and who is as of that date, unable to due to sickness, accident or for any other valid reason, must advise the Company before the beginning of
90
these weeks of vacation and may postpone his vacation to a later date determined after mutual agreement with the Company.
ARTICLE 22
HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
22:00 It is agreed that operations within each plant are to be scheduled according to the production requirements. On a weekly basis and under normal conditions, the Company can schedule the operations to fulfill production requirements in the following manner:
a)	The normal work week will be from Monday 7:00 am to Saturday 7:00 am (or) Monday 8:00 am to Saturday 8:00 am whichever is applicable. This refers to employees scheduled during the week from Monday to Friday.
b)	However when production needs require a minimum of 125 hours of operation per week for a period of nine (9) months starting the second (2nd) Monday in September and finishing on May 31st of each year, the normal work week will start on Monday at 7:00 am to Saturday at noon (12:00 am) or on Monday at 8:00 am to Saturday 1:00 pm whichever applies.
This refers to employees scheduled during the week from Monday to Friday. Under these circumstances the Company will attempt if possible to schedule the employees qualified on the concerned jobs on a voluntary basis on Saturday as of 7:00 am to 8:00 am whichever
91
applies. For lack of a sufficient number of voluntary employees to the various jobs necessary for production needs, the Company will then schedule the employees working on these jobs as per the day shift during the week of reference.
c)	If production requirements call for one hundred and sixty-eight (168) hours per week of operation, this will be achieved with the application of the schedule referred as ”5/2". Depending on needs, work schedules will be set up by machine assignment, job classification, by department section, by department or by plant.
d)	DEFINITION OF SCHEDULE REFERRED AS “5/2”:
When production requirements call for two (2) weekend days to be scheduled by one (1) or two (2) shifts of twelve (12) hours which the beginning will coincide with the end of regular week shifts, such as:
Day shift:	7:00 am to 7:00 pm
or
8:00 am to 8:00 pm
Night shift:	7:00 pm to 7:00 am
or
8:00 pm to 8:00 am
92
e)	REDUCTION OF PRODUCTION CAPACITY NEEDS
Since the introduction of twelve (12) hour weekend shifts is to meet greater needs of production, it is also agreed that when the needs of production capacity are reduced, such shifts will be the first ones interrupted. The employees subject to being laid-off will have the right, according to their qualifications and seniority, to prevail themselves of the provisions in the collective agreement to that effect, either to return to the five (5) day schedule or to be laid-off, whichever is applicable.
22:01 Overtime on daily and weekly basis will be on a voluntary basis with the exception of article 22:00 b) when production requirements call for a minimum of 125 hours per week of operation.
22:02 The normal working hours per day and per week for the overtime calculation are of eight (8) hours per day and forty (40) hours per week except for the “5/2" schedule where normal hours per day are of twelve (12) hours and twenty-four (24) hours per weekend.
22:03 The normal day of all employee for overtime computation purposes will begin with the first hour of the employee's regular shift and will continue for twenty-four (24) hours. It is understood that the regular shift means the one on which the employee is scheduled for a given week. The provisions of this paragraph do not apply in the case where there has been a regular
93
change of shifts due to rotation, or if the work done in excess of eight (8) hours, or twelve (12) regular hours according to the “5/2" schedule, results from employees having exchanged time between themselves.
Notwithstanding the provisions of the previous paragraph, the hours worked by the employee before the beginning of his regular shift will be paid in overtime when he cannot complete his regular eight (8) hours of work or regular twelve (12) hours of work according to the “5/2” schedule because the Company cannot provide him with a job assignment. Likewise, an employee having worked hours before the beginning of his regular shift, consecutive or not to the ones of his regular shift, will be paid in overtime provided they exceed eight (8) hours or twelve (12) regular hours of work according to the “5/2" schedule.
22:04 Regular hours of work as specified at 22:02, will be paid at straight time, whereas hours worked above regular hours will be considered as overtime and will be paid at the rate of time and one half (150%) of the regular hourly rate or average rate whichever is applicable.
22:05 For the employee eligible to receive payment for: Hours not worked or worked for the observance of a statutory holiday according to article 20, and also for hours paid and not worked due to absence for reason of bereavement in his family according to article 17,
94
these hours not worked or worked shall be calculated as worked for calculation of weekly total hours.
22:06 a) All hours worked during the weekend starting at 7:00 am or 8:00 am according to the end of the regular shift on Saturday until 7:00 am or 8:00 am according to the regular shift on Monday will be paid at the rate of time and one half (150%) of regular hourly rate or average whichever is applicable.
The provisions of this item do not apply in the case of regular hours worked during the weekend according to the "5/2" schedule.
b)	All work performed on the shift starting at 11:00 pm or midnight Monday at the end of a statutory holiday shall be considered as the shift starting at 11:00 pm or midnight Sunday and shall be paid at the rate of time and one half (150%) of the regular rate or average rate whichever is applicable. “SHIFT” means the eight (8) hour period of time between 11:00 pm and 7:00 am or midnight and 8:00 am whichever is applicable.
The provisions of this item do not apply in the case of regular hours worked during the weekend according to the "5/2" schedule.
c)	When production requirements or weather conditions necessitate the functioning of the boilers during seven (7) days per week of operation, boiler operator employees will be
95
scheduled on four (4) rotating shifts and will receive the overtime and shift premium as provided in the present agreement.
22:07 Any work performed on a statutory holiday shall be remunerated at (150%) the hourly or average rate whichever applies, over and above remuneration for the paid holiday.
The provisions of this item do not apply in the case of regular hours worked during the weekend according to the “5/2" schedule.
22:08 The employee will not receive overtime twice for hours worked in any one day or in any one week. Overtime payment will be made only for hours that have been worked above regular working hours per day or per week, except for provision mentioned at item 22:05.
Furthermore, when the hours worked in overtime during the “5/2” schedule are payable at time and a half (150%), the weekend premium foreseen at item 23:04 a) 1. or 2. whichever applies, will not be payable for these same hours.
22:09 The daily or weekly hours of work mentioned in this article, are for computation of overtime hours only and must not be interpreted as being guaranteed.
22:10 a) If the Company decides to modify the work schedule on a permanent basis on a given job, and this as compared to the one in force on
96
the concerned job, the Union will then be advised in writing before the change is introduced.
b)	When the Company decides to modify the day schedule which exists on one or more given job assignments in order to set up a rotating work schedule on two (2) or three (3) shifts, the employees affected by this change of schedule may then prevail themselves of provisions at item 27:02 a) and b).
22:11 OVERTIME DISTRIBUTION PROCEDURE:
It is agreed that the procedure to distribute overtime will be the following, either to accomplish additional hours or when the Company is informed that an employee will be absent from work before the beginning of his shift, and so as to replace him, requires that work be done in overtime:
a)	Order of distribution of overtime:
1.	Overtime will first be offered to employees operating a machine assignment or by order of seniority to those occupying the job, whichever is applicable, whose shift is ending and where overtime is to be done.
2.	If the employees refuse, overtime will be offered by order of seniority to employees occupying the job whose shift is ending and
97
where overtime is to be done.
3.	If these employees refuse, overtime will then be offered by order of seniority to the other qualified employees working in the same department on the shift which is ending.
4.	If the employees refuse, overtime will be offered by order of seniority to the other qualified employees of the plant on the shift which is ending.
5.	If the employees refuse, overtime will then be offered by order of seniority as per procedure provided at 22:11 a) 2, 3, and 4 but without any regard to the work shift of employees concerned.
b)	When overtime is foreseen and necessary for more than one (1) shift due to the same absence which extends itself in consecutive days in a given week, the provisions provided at article 22:11 a) will apply for the first day, after which, the overtime distribution procedure for the subsequent days will be the following:
1.	Overtime will be offered by order of seniority to qualified employees occupying the job, without regard to the work shift of employees concerned.
2.	If the employees refuse, overtime will then be offered by order of seniority to the other qualified employees working in the same department, without regard to the work shift of employees concerned.
98
3.	If those employees refuse, overtime will be offered by order of seniority to the other qualified
employees of the plant, without regard to the
work shift of employees concerned.
c)	Dividing of overtime:
When overtime is necessary for a complete work shift, the first four (4) hours will be offered as per order of distribution provided at 22:11 a) or b) whichever is applicable, whereas the second four (4) hours will be offered to employees of the shift following the one on which there is overtime to be done while respecting the order of distribution provided at 22:11 a) or b), whichever is applicable.
However, the provisions of the previous paragraph do not apply when overtime is necessary on the shift referred as "5/2".
d)	When an employee is temporarily transferred on a job other than his own as per provisions at article 11 for a period of one (1) week or less and that during this period overtime is necessary on the job normally occupied by the employee, he will then be entitled to the said overtime as per provisions of the present article.
Furthermore, if the period of the employee's temporary transfer exceeds one (1) week and that overtime is necessary on the job he is temporarily occupying, he will then be eligible to the said overtime as per provisions of the present article.
99
It is agreed that the overtime will be offered according to one or the other previous circumstances, whichever applies.
e)	If an employee believes that overtime was not offered to him as per the order of distribution provided in the present article, he will notify his foreman and if he judges it to be justified, the Company will then take appropriate measures in order to offer within thirty (30) calendar days another overtime opportunity to the concerned employee.
However, it is understood that this opportunity will not as a consequence limit the overtime opportunity that another employee could have otherwise obtained.
ARTICLE 23
PREMIUMS
23:00 SHIFT PREMIUM
Shift premiums are not paid for hours worked on jobs regularly scheduled on day shift. However the following shift premiums will be paid over and above the regular rate of pay:
a)	Eighteen (18) cents per hour for hours worked on a job regularly scheduled on the shift of:
3:00 pm to 11:00 pm or
4:00 pm to midnight 100
b)	Thirty-three (33) cents per hour for hours worked on a job regularly scheduled on the shift of:
11:00 pm to 7:00 am or
Midnight to 8:00 am
c)	Twenty-three (23) cents per hour for hours worked on a job regularly scheduled on evening shift and which exceed midnight as well as the twelve (12) hour weekend night shifts.
23:01 Premium for electricians
The electrician who owns an automobile and who must make use of it to go from one plant to another during his regular working hours, will receive a premium of twenty (20) cents per hour over and above his hourly rate.
23:02 Special premium
An employee will receive a special premium when designated by the Company for his competency to assume a greater responsibility. This premium will be granted over and above the hourly rate or average hourly rate whichever applies. This premium is granted according to the following level of responsibilities:
a)	Sixty (60) cents per hour when an employee replaces a foreman. He will be called group leader. If the duration of the replacement is expected to exceed two (2) days, the name of the group leader will be posted as of the first day.
101
b)	Twenty-five (25) cents per hour when an employee trains or re-trains a group of employees.
c)	Twenty-five (25) cents per hour for a maximum period of fifteen (15) days when an employee trains or re-trains another employee. This applies for each candidate to be trained.
23:03 RECOGNITION BONUS
A recognition bonus for years of service with the Company shall be distributed each year at Christmas to employees who are at the Company's service on that date. The amount of this bonus shall be based on the number of years of continuous service with the Company. The years of service shall be calculated as of June 30th.
The number of dollars per year of continuous service applicable to each year of the collective agreement is of 9,50 $.
23:04 WEEKEND PREMIUM
a) A weekend premium of 3,00 $ will be paid for each regular hour worked on a job scheduled on the weekend twelve (12) hour shifts according to the "5/2" schedule.
102
Applicable? ;ss <6f the date of signature for the renewal of the collective agreement which expired on Mav 51996.
1.	After the date of signature, the employee who will be promoted or assigned to a given job on the “5/2” schedule will be eligible to a weekend premium of 3,00 $ payable for each regular hour worked on one of these jobs.
2.	Only employees who detain at the date of signature a job on the “5/2" schedule, as a result of promotion in conformity with the posting procedure foreseen at 15:02 and 15:03, are eligible to a weekend premium of 7,00 $ per hour worked.
However, if the employee concerned applies for and is promoted to another job, he will not be eligible to this weekend premium.
b) The employees in the Company's employment at the date of signature of the collective agreement which expired on May 5 1996 will be eligible to the weekend premium of 7,00 $ per hour worked in the event that the only job where they can bump is on the “5/2" schedule as a result of a lay-off on a job during the week and that it is occupied by an employee with less plant seniority.
At the time of the signature for the renewal of the collective agreement which expired on May 5 1996, any employee affected by the creation of provisions at item 23:04 a) 2. will be eligible to
103
prevail himself of provisions at item 27:02 a) or b) whichever applies, as long as the employee concerned is indeed scheduled according to the "5/2" schedule. It is also agreed that such a decision on the employee's part will end his eligibility to the premium foreseen at item 23:04 a) 2.
c)	In the event that an employee whose job is on the “5/2” schedule and who already receives the weekend premium bumps on another job occupied by an employee with less plant seniority and who is already working on this same schedule then he will continue to receive the premium to which he is eligible in conformity with item 23:04 a) 1. or 2. whichever is applicable.
d)	The employee whose job is on the “5/2" schedule at the date of signature of the collective agreement which expired on May 5 1996 and who is eligible to the weekend premium of 7,00 $ for each regular hour worked, will continue to receive the said premium if he is promoted to another job on the “5/2" schedule in conformity with the posting procedure at articles 15:02 and 15:03.
However, if the concerned employee applies and is promoted to another job which is scheduled on a 5 day and 40 hour week after the above mentioned date of signature, he will no longer be eligible to receive this weekend premium even if he is eventually promoted again on a “5/2" schedule job.
104
ARTICLE 24
WAGES
24:00 The Company agrees to pay and the Union agrees to accept for the length of this collective agreement that hourly rate and base rate applicable to the bonus system (standard minute) foreseen at appendix "1" which is made part of this agreement and signed for identification by the parties hereto. Any change of any one of these rates shall conform to this present collective agreement.
24:01 a) When the new job is being created permanently in the bargaining unit the rate will be determined within a delay not exceeding six (6) months. The hourly rate of this job shall be determined by using the method of job evaluation. The committee proceeding to the job evaluation will be formed by six (6) members, three (3) of them will be the Company’s representatives and the three (3) others will be the Union representatives. The hourly rate then established becomes the regular rate of this new job and will then be subject to the posting procedure according to items 15:01 and 15:02.
b) When the Company will have decided to proceed with a modification regarding classification of jobs or their rates which appear at appendix " 1" of the present collective agreement, the representatives of the Company will advise, before the said modification, the Union VicePresident of the plant concerned as well as the employee or employees affected by the change.
105
24:02 The general contractual increases included in the rates at appendix ''1" and agreed to by the Company are as follows:
a)	To regular hourly paid employees:
Effective 06/05/96. . . . 0,30 cents
Effective 05/05/97....... 0,28 cents
Effective 04/05/98. . 0,28 cents Effective 03/05/99. 0,26 cents
b)	To employees paid according to the bonus system with base rate: Considering that the bonus system (standard minute) offers an earning opportunity equal to 125% of the base rates and to maintain an equitable proportion between these two (2) methods of payment, base rates shall be increased as follows:
Effective 06/05/96 . . . .0,240 cents Effective 05/05/97 . . .0,224 cents Effective 04/05/98 .0,224 cents Effective 03/05/99 . . . .0,208 cents
c)	The amount of general increase for the fourth year of the collective agreement, effective May 3 1999 represents a guaranteed minimum.
If the increase of the consumer price index obtained in June 1999 for the twelve (12) month reference period ending in May 1999 exceeds three percent (3.0%), an additional salary increase will be calculated and paid as per the
106
method provided in the letter of agreement to this effect.
24:03 In addition the Company and the Union have agreed to increase a number of rates on
certain jobs. The amount of increase and the jobs that have received those increases are at appendix "2".
(Non applicable for the duration of the present collective agreement).
24:04 SALARY PAID TO AN EMPLOYEE
SELECTED AS JURY CANDIDATE OR JURY
A regular employee having completed his probation period, who is chosen to serve as a jury candidate or jury, will receive if eligible, the difference between his regular daily earnings based on his normal working hours as an employee, and his daily indemnity as jury candidate or jury, provided that hours served as jury are part of his regular working hours and he conformed himself to the following conditions:
a)	That he returns to work as soon as possible each time he is released from the Court.
b)	He must present to the Company written evidence specifying dates and hours during which he has served as jury candidate or jury as well as the amount of indemnity he has received or will receive from the Court.
107
This article is not applicable if an employee makes the request himself to serve as jury candidate or jury.
24:05 RETROACTIVITY
All employees employed with the Company having completed thirteen (13) weeks of continuous service at the date of signature of the collective agreement will be entitled to retroactivity as of May 6 1996. Retroactivity applies on general increases, calculated on the basis of hours worked and the hours worked in overtime. All other items of the new collective agreement become effective on the date of signature.
ARTICLE 25
BEGINNERS RATES
25:00 When the Company hires a new employee, the minimum hourly rate paid will be ten (10) cents higher than minimum hourly salary set by the law “Loi sur !es normes du travail”.
25:01 This rate paid to beginners is applicable during a period of sixty (60) working days unless they achieve proficiency in their job before that time.
108
ARTICLE 26
INSURANCE BENEFITS
SCHEDULE OF BENEFITS EMPLOYEES
Accidental Life	Death and
Classification Insurance Dismemberment 1. Single 10 000$	10 000$
employees
2. Married 15 000$	15 000 $
employees
3. Dependents:
-spouse	10 000 $
- children	5	000	$
Weekly
Income
Benefit
66 2/3 % of
normal
weekly salary subject to a maximum insurable earnings as from time to time provided in the Unemployment Ins. Act. 1971.
EMPLOYEES AND DEPENDENTS
Daily hospital benefits:
Payment of semi-private accommodation. No limit of days.
Extended health benefits:
No deductible - 80% reimbursement.
109
The Company will retain the refund amount from this registered plan as consented in the “agreement letter”, and its contribution for the four (4) years of the collective agreement will be:
-	Male or female employees
without dependents .......39,23 $ / month
-	Male of female employees
with dependents...........58,20 $ / month
NOTE: The future increases in the cost of premiums for benefits mentioned above will be paid 50% by the employee and 50% by the Company.
ARTICLE 27
TECHNICAL CHANGES
27:00 When the Company has decided of a technical change, it will notify the Union as soon as possible after this decision. The Company representatives and the Union Vice-President of the plant concerned will meet in order to discuss the importance of the changes contemplated and their impact on the employees.
27:01 For the purpose of the present article “technical changes” means the automation, or renovation of existing machinery or replacement of existing machinery, the whole creating a permanent reduction in the number of employees on a given job or leading to the permanent elimination of one or many jobs. Also,
110
is considered as “technical change” the closing of a department in a permanent manner in any given plant and the combination of many existing jobs leading to the creation of a new permanent job.
27:02 If for the reasons mentioned at 27:01 there results that one or many employees are subjected to a permanent lay-off due to such a technical change, the following provisions will apply:
a)	The employee with five (5) years or more of seniority subjected to a lay-off resulting from a permanent closing of a job will have the choice to be transferred on a permanent basis to another job occupied by an employee with less seniority or to receive a training according to the posting procedure at 15:02 and 15:03.
b)	The employee with less than five (5) years’ seniority subjected to a lay-off resulting from the permanent closing of a job will be transferred to another job occupied by an employee with less seniority on which he is already qualified and has already filled satisfactorily. If he is not qualified on any job, he will then be transferred permanently to another job of his choice provided it is occupied by an employee with less seniority and he will be eligible to receive if necessary a maximum training of fifteen (15) days on this new occupation.
c)	The employee bumped permanently from his job, as a result of the exercise of the choice to
m
be transferred on another job by the employee subjected to a lay-off as per provisions described at 27:02 a) and b), will be permanently transferred to another job occupied by an employee with less seniority on which he is already qualified and has already filled satisfactorily.
However, the employee thus bumped with five (5) years and more of seniority will have the choice to receive a training according to the posting procedure at 15:02 and 15:03 on another job occupied by an employee with less seniority, whereas the employee bumped with less than five (5) years’ seniority, and who is not qualified on any other job, will then be transferred to another job of his choice provided it is occupied by an employee with less seniority and will be eligible to receive, if necessary, a maximum training of fifteen (15) days on this new occupation.
27:03 a) When a permanent reduction in the number of employees becomes necessary on the job due to a technical change, and that only a certain number of employees occupying this same job are subjected to a permanent lay-off, the choice to remain on this job or, whichever is applicable, to be permanently transferred as per provisions described at 27:02 a) and b) will be made by order of seniority among the employees concerned, and this, up to the number of employees required for the said occupation.
112
b)	Furthermore, the employee or employees concerned who are not subjected to a permanent lay-off will have the choice, during a minimum period of three (3) months and a maximum period of six (6) months after the end of the appropriate trial period, not to accomplish the job according to the new conditions, therefore he or they will be transferred permanently by order of seniority to another job as per provisions at article 27:02 a) and b). However, such permanent transfer may be done only after the Company has filled, following the posting procedure, the vacancy resulting from the decision to transfer the employee(s) concerned.
c)	If after the trial period, an employee is considered as not being able to accomplish the new job, he may then prevail himself of provisions at article 27:02 a) and b).
However if the employee concerned has been unable to qualify himself following application of the previous article's dispositions, he may then prevail himself of a second training period of fifteen (15) days on another job occupied by an employee with less seniority. It is understood that this refers to training on jobs an employee can normally qualify himself on in a period of fifteen (15) days. If the employee does not succeed in qualifying himself as per the period prescribed, he is then subjected once again to being laid-off.
113
d)	When important changes in terms of technology made by the Company on a given job do not lead to a permanent lay-off of one or more employees and result in an employee being considered incapable of carrying out to the Company's satisfaction various tasks according to the new conditions and this within a period of one (1) month following the introduction of these changes, then the employee concerned may be permanently transferred on another job occupied by an employee with less seniority on which he is already qualified and has already filled satisfactorily. Furthermore the employee concerned who is not qualified on any other job will be eligible to be permanently transferred on another job occupied by an employee with less seniority and to receive a training following the posting procedure at 15:02 and 15:03.
It is agreed that the decision to permanently transfer an employee for the above reasons is under the division manager's responsibility or the concerned plant, whichever is applicable.
27:04 a) The employees laid-off with four (4) years or more of seniority for reasons following provisions provided at item 27:02 a) and b) will be eligible to receive a separation allowance as per their age and seniority as specified at 27:04 b) (table). An employee of fifty-five (55) years of age or more is not obliged to accept a job on which he is already qualified or to be retrained on another job he will have the choice to opt for a separation allowance if he so desires. It is understood that any employee who receives a
114
separation allowance will lose his seniority and his employment will be terminated with the Company. “The methods of payment of this article are negotiable with the Union at the time of its application.”
115
27:04 b)
AGE
60-65 55-59 S 50-54 45-49 40-44 35-39 30-34 25-29 20-24
DOLLARS AMOUNT FOR SEPARATION ALLOWANCE
YEARS OF SENIORITY
(0-3)	(4-5)	(6-8)	(9-11)	(12-14)
Nil	750	1 000	1 250	1 500
Nil	750	1 000	1 250	1 500
Nil	750	1 000	1 250	1 500
Nil	750	1 000	1 250	1 500
Nil	500	750	1 000	1 250
Nil	500	750	1 000	1 250
Nil	500	500	1 000	1 250
Nil	250	500	1 000	
Nil	250	500		
(15-19)	(20-24)	(25-29)	(30-PLUS)
2 000	3 000	3 750	5 000
2 000	3 000	3 750	5 000
2 000	3 000	3 750	5 000
2 000	3 000	3 750	5 000
2 000	3 000	3 750	
2 000	3 000		
1 500			
ARTICLE 28
HEALTH AND SAFETY
28:01 The Company must take reasonable steps to protect the health and ensure safety of its workers during working hours.
28:02 The Union and employees will cooperate with the Company and give full support for the introduction, application and the respect of measures and rules concerning health and safety of employees at work.
28:03 The Company and the Union agree to maintain a health and safety committee in which both are equally represented at each plant. Each committee is formed of two employees representing the workers and two members representing the Company.
The main function of this committee is to discuss all questions related to health and safety of employees at work. To make recommendations when it is judged necessary.
28:04 The health and safety committee will meet at least once every three months.
The minutes of these meetings will be kept for future reference. The committee meetings will be held during normal operation hours and this without loss of pay for the committee members representing the workers.
117
28:05 When an employee has an accident at work, the Company will give the first-aid treatment required, as well as to the hospital or to a doctor if necessary. Depending on the seriousness of the injury and the doctor's decision, if required by the employee, the Company will supply the transport back to the plant. In the case where the seriousness of the injury is such that the employee is unable to walk or drive his car, if required, the Company will supply the transportation back to his home.
28:06 a) In the case where an employee injures himself during his regular shift and must be absent to receive medical treatments, he will not lose any salary for the duration of his shift provided he returns to work after the treatment, before the end of his regular shift. If the employee is kept at the hospital or if he is returned home by the doctor, on his return to work he must present to his foreman a medical certificate signed by the doctor, confirming his recommendation and specifying the date and time at which the employee has left the hospital or his office.
b) In the case where an employee has returned to work following an accident at the plant and still must continue to receive medical treatments according to the doctor’s recommendations, when possible, he must try to schedule his appointments to receive treatments outside his regular working hours.
118
In the case where the doctor's medical treatments can not be scheduled outside the employee's normal working hours, he can then prevail himself of dispositions provided by the workmen's compensation act.
ARTICLE 29
DURATION AND RENEWAL
29:00 This agreement will be in force for a period of forty-eight (48) months extending to May 7 2000.
29:01 Negotiations to amend this agreement will begin at least thirty (30) days before its expiration and the agreement will remain in force until negotiations are completed and the new collective agreement signed.
ARTICLE 30
CORRESPONDANCE
30:00 Unless otherwise foreseen, the official exchanges in the form of correspondance between Company management and the Union will be addressed by mail as follows:
TO THE COMPANY:
The Human Resources Manager Cleyn & Tinker Inc.
4, Lome Street Huntingdon (Quebec)
J0S1HO
119
TO THE UNION:
The President U.F.C.W. - Textile Council Local 137T
c/o Cleyn &Tinker Inc.
4 Lome Street Huntingdon (Quebec)
JOS 1 HO
COPY TO MONTREAL OFFICE TO:
International Agent U.F.C.W. - Textile Council Canadian Office 655, 32nd Avenue, Suite 300 Lachine (Quebec) H8T 3G6
30:01 All communications exchanged under this collective agreement will be considered as sent by one of the parties and received by the other three (3) working days following its posting date.
ARTICLE 31
GENERAL INFORMATION LOI SUR LES NORMES DU TRAVAIL
Information prepared by the “Commission des Normes du travail” in the form of pamphlets concerning various dispositions of the "Loi sur les normes du travail” will be available for the employees by the bulletin boards as well as the secretary's office in each of the plants and the Company's Personnel department.
120
All updates of these pamphlets by the “Commission des Normes du travail” will be at the employees' disposal in the areas previously mentioned when available.
APPENDIX TO THE COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT MAY 1996
APPENDIX 3
This appendix is part of the collective agreement between the U.F.C.W. - Textile Council local 137T and Cleyn & Tinker Inc.
The Company and the Union agree to the following meaning of the word “QUALIFIED” written at item 15:03 b):
a)	For hourly paid jobs the Company's judgement to determine when an employee is qualified will be based on the performance expected from an employee's normal ability, who has received a reasonable training for the job he has been promoted to.
b)	For jobs paid on incentive system (standard minute), an employee will be judged qualified when his average performance will exceed (105%) for a full normal week.
However, the above mentioned is considered as a minimum performance required to fulfill the job following a reasonable approbation period and cannot be considered as normal performance for
121
an experienced worker. Furthermore, any employee having completed six (6) months on the job to which he has been promoted shall have an average performance exceeding 115%, otherwise, the Company will have the right to return the employee on his previous job. However, the Company must give a job load and an earning opportunity allowing the employee to obtain an average performance greater than 115%.
c) For the “measured hourly job”, an employee will be judged qualified if he is capable of carrying out, continuously and to the Company's satisfaction, a job load equivalent to one hundred percent (100%), failing to do so the Company may permanently transfer him according to provisions of item 9:03 c) Part 3.
APPENDIX TO THE COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT MAY 1996
APPENDIX 4
This appendix is part of the collective agreement between the U.F.C.W. - Textile Council local 137T and Cleyn & Tinker Inc.
Female employees with wholly dependents shall be considered in the same category as married men for the insurance benefits according to article 26.
122
The term “FEMALE EMPLOYEE WITH DEPENDENTS” signifies: unmarried mother, widower, separated, divorced or married when the husband is invalid and has not reached retirement age.
To be eligible, these female employees shall have wholly dependents. Will be considered as wholly dependents: children of age 0 to 18 years and over 18 years of age will be considered as wholly dependents if such child is attending school or university full time, or if he is mentally or physically infirm or affected by a chronic illness.
The Union and the Company acknowledge the fact that each female employee eligible to these benefits shall be considered with discretion.
Any false declaration on behalf of an employee to become illegally eligible to these benefits is subject to being discharged, however, the Company must inform the employee of this fact.
APPENDIX TO THE COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT MAY 1996
APPENDIX 5
This appendix refers to letters of agreement between the U.F.C.W. - Textile Council local 137T and Cleyn & Tinker Inc.
123
Whereas clauses of the collective agreement govern all generalities, letters of agreement, govern special situations or exception cases. Reference being made to the following letters of agreement:
Acquired right concerning working schedules.
Procedure to follow when vacancy requiring only one (1) employee on a job and when he is scheduled regularly on days.
Additional salary increase for the fourth (4th) year of the collective agreement if CPI exceeds 3.0%.
Establishment of a twelve (12) hour winter schedule for the job of “stationary engineer” at plant No. 6.
Time paid in the event of a lack of material on the job of burling and mending at plant No. 5.
Remuneration of members of the Union's executive committee and method of reimbursement of amounts paid.
Five (5) letters of agreement regarding: “Change allowing the night shift employees to begin and complete their normal work week twenty-four (24) hours earlier”.
Rights of employees occupying jobs of “Millwright”, “Maintenance and mechanic”, “Loom fixer (rapiers and projectiles), “Loom fixer (projectiles)” and “Maintenance and mechanic helper”.
124
COLLECTIVE LABOUR AGREEMENT
between
CLEYN &TINKER INC. HUNTINGDON (QUEBEC)
and
THE COUNCIL OF THE UNITED TEXTILE WORKERS OF AMERICA UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION (AFL-CIO-CLC-QFL)
Local 137T
The parties have signed this agreement in Huntingdon on March 24th, 1997.
REPRESENTING THE COMPANY:
Jean-Pierre Philie Human Resources Manager
Real Desgroseilliers
Manager - Yarn Manufacturing Division
Pierre Renaud
Manager - Fabric Manufacturing Division Pierre Lacasse
Manager - Dyeing and Finishing Division
125
Ginette Joly
Supervisor - Personnel Services
REPRESENTING THE UNION U.F.C.W.- TEXTILE COUNCIL:
Pierre Jean Olivier International Representative
REPRESENTING THE UNION LOCAL 137T:
Jacques Leduc
President and Vice-President (Plant #6)
Remi Robidoux Secretary - Treasurer
Denis Leblanc Vice-President (Plant #1)
David Beare
Vice-President (Plant #2)
J.L.
Vice-President (Plant #4)
Jocelyne Vaillancourt Vice-President (Plant #5)
126