00 Ob
COLLECTIVE LABOUR AGREEMENT
tjfiiT/L
between
CLEYN& TINKER INC. Plants No. 1,2,4,5,6
Huntingdon (Quebec)
hereafter called the "EMPLOYER"ofthe Drat part
and
U,F,C,W. - Looal 137T (AFL-CIO-CLC-QFL)
for planto 1,2,4,5,e
of Huntingdon (Quebec)
hereafter called the "UNION” of the second part.
ARTICLE 1 PURPOSE
The parties have agreed that the general purpose of this agreement Is to promote tee mutual Interest ofthe Company and Its employees, to provide for the operation of the plants under methods which will further to the fullest extent possible tee safety and welfare of employees and the economy of operations, qualify and quantify of output, deallness of plant, protection of property.
ARTICLE 2 RECOGNITION
The Company recognizes the Union as the sole bsigalnlng agent ter ell employees In acoordanoe with tea Law of plants No.
1,2,4,6,6 with the exception of office employees.
ARTICLE 3
EMPLOYEES
00837 (06)
3:00 Thu term "EMPLOYEE^)' whenever found In the present Agreement shall designate the workers for which the Union Ir certified.
3:01 When Intho present collective agreement the masculine pronoun Is used, this signifies end Includes tho feminine pronoun wherever applicable.
ARTICLE 4 UNION DUES
4:00 As a condition of employment all employee* shall algn an authorization form Indupllcate, enabling the Companyto deduct the Union dote from their pay as stipulated by the Union. These Union dues will be deducted ee cf the first week of work accomplished by the employee. These deductions as we# as the duplicate authorization form, will be forwarded to the agent designated by the Union.
4:01 When hiring a new employee, the employer wk I Inform Nm of the exietenoe of the union and wfll have him sign an appropriate authorization form in order to allow deduction of union dues from the employee's pay.
The authorization form will reed as follows: CLEYN & TINKER INC.
"I, the undersigned, hereby authorize my employer to deduct from my pay the required amount, for any Union dues to the U.F.C.W. - Looal 137T, to be paid to the agent designated by this Union".
The employer will alto Inform the new employee of the names of the departmental stewards In the plant where he will be working ae well the employer will taka appropriate measures for the employee to be Introduced to a departmental steward.
4:02 Peducten of.entry feet
The employer wIR deduct the entry fees emulated In the Unions' s regulations once the employee has completed a waiting period of thirty (30) calender days. The entry fees will be sent to disunion's Secretary-Treasurer, aooompsnied by the
report of union contributions.
4:03 Deduction of union dues
The employer will deduct toe union duos stipulated In toe Union's regulations from toe employee's pey storting Item toe first paycheck. These amounts will be sent to toe Union' s Secretory-Treasurer aooompenled by the report of union contributions.
4:04 Remittance of union oontrtbutlons
The employer wilt send the dues and entry (Ism to the Union' • Secretary-Treasurer at the latest the fifteenth day foHawing a period of tour (4) weeks of deductions, accompanied by the report of union contributions.
4:08 Report of .union wnttHBitiani
On the monthly report of union contributions, toe employer will provide toe foUcMrtng Information: number of employee, name and surname, social Insurance number, employment classification, weekly deduction, monthly cumulative amount of contributions of each employee and the annual cumutatlva amount
In the case of a new employee the employer will provide the folowing addi-tlonal Information: address, data of birth, date of employment and entry rights.
4:06 The employee who completes his probation period sees his nams appear on the seniority list.
The Union will advlte the employer In writing of eny apodal dues to be deducted on the employee*' peysorofanyerrear*
In the payment of regular or special duet, of entry feee which ootM be owed by an employee. On reooptfon of thle written notloe, the employer is committed to deducting each week Item the employee' e pay an amount equivalent to the monthly union due prescribed by the Union and to send the sums deducted together with the remittance of the monthly regular dues.
Such written notloe of arrears or spedal dues must stipulate that theee am deductions at source.
4:08 Union dues shell be deducted from the employee's pay each week for 82 weeks yearly. The Company shell, when making the TP4-T4 Inoome Tax slips, Indicate the employee's total union duet deductions.
The Union dues ere applicable to all weeks of pay on the basis of 62 weeks per year, It Is to be noted that the veoatlon pays am subjected to tola deduction, but in no event, wiH there bo more then 82 regular deductions per year made. The weeks of pay which do not have e minimum of eight (8) hours, w# not be subjected to the Union deduction, likewise the weeks of absence for Utness, accident or layoff wkl not be subjected to deductions and no arrears vriH be collected when the
employee returns to work.
4:00 List of smekwess
As of the signing of the cottsctive agreement, the Company will provide the Union with a list of all employee* covered by the collective agreement ThtsHstwffl Include the employee' t addressee, the dates of plant and Company seniority end will indicate their regular Job.
amwkuoo «m #>
8;03 a) The Company reserves the right to dscherge or demote any employeee for any of the following reasons:
•	Drunkenness, In competence,
Insubordination, absence wftbout leave, smoking In prohibited areas, drinking Intoxicating liquors while on duty, endangering hie own.lffe or safety and/or the Hfie or safety of a fellow employee, violation of plant rules providing that foe changes are postsd 48 hours prior to the date they become effective, or for any other just oause.
8:03 b) DEMOTION
The parties agree that when the Company demotes an employee he will be entitled to apply for the flrat permanent vacancy available as per the potting procedure as long as his eeniortty enables him to do so or for die first available Job for whloh no other employee has signed the notice of vacancy or claimed the job following He posting.
5:04 The Company agrees that these functions will be exercised In a manner consistent with the provisions of the agreement and the collective bargaining rights of the Union.
ARTICLE 6
8
DISCRIMINATION
It Is agreed that there will be no discrimination on behalf of both parties having taken part In this agreement as a result of past, present or future aotMtlee In negotiations, disputes, grlevanoes or complaints.
It Is also agreed that there will be no Intimidation horn die employees or their representatives towards the Company's representatives as well as no Intimidation on behalf of the Company or Its representatives towards the Union's representatives or Its members.
Furthermore, the parties agree that there will be no discrimination against any employee because of hit race, color, language, creed, religion, sex or handicap.
ABIICLEI
STRIKES AND LOCKOUTS
7:00 Thera shall be no lockout by the Company, or strike, slowdown, sltdown or suspension of work, either complete or partial, by ths employees, during me life of this agreement.
article a
UNION REPRESENTATION 8:00 DESIGNATION:
7
The Union shall designate amongst the employees a representative per shift in each department to be known as a "Departmental steward”.
a) UNION'S EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
The Union’s executive oommtttse Is comprised or the President of local 137T, the Secretary-Treasurer of the local as well as the Union Vfo8>Preeldent of each of the five (5) plants ofCleyn A Tinker Inc.
b) DEPARTMENTAL STEWARD
The UnionwUI nominate smongtt tho employees a steward par«Wft in each department who wH) be known ea "Departmental steward".
8:01 FUNCTI0N8OF THE DEPARTMENTAL STEWARD
This departmental steward1* function* will be to consider ell grievances or compMnts which the employees of his department may bring to hie attention ami to proceed with these grievances or complaints In conformity wtth the grievance procedure established In this agreement.
8:02 ABSENCE OF AN
EMPLOYEE FROM HIS JOB:
a) An employee shall not leave his working place to attend Union business without having obtained permission from his immediate superior beforehand. This permission will be granted for grievance
b) In order to maintain put practices, the Company accepts to pay for hours Incurred during mattings held for settlement of grievances whan thasa are part of tha regular shift of tha employee oonoemed and whan a minimum of ona Company rapraaantativa partlotpataa In tha mealing.
However, tha Company aooapta to pay at straight time tha Union rapraaantativa or tha employes oonoamad, whichever tha oaaa, as par hla regular hourly rata or average hourly rata, whichever Is applicable, for all hours Incurred during meetings summoned by tha Company, of tha health and safety committee of each plant, of tha grievanoe committee and also for negotiations tor the renewal of the coHeotlva agreement and whan a minimum of ona rapraaantativa of tha Company participate* in tha masting. However, all hours paid at straight time whloh are not part of the regular shift of tha Union representative or tha employee oonoamad, whichever h applicable, will not be considered as worked for the purpose of overtime computation on a dally and waskly basis.
8:03	UNION REPRESENTATIVE
ABSENT FOR UNION BUSINESS:
The Company wNl grant a Isava of abesncs to any eevan (7) Union executive* from Cleyn & Tinker Inc. for out of town business, provided foresight (48) hour*' notioa la glvan.
Suoh written permission shall not be unreasonably withhold.
8:04 U8T OF UNION REPRESENTATIVES:
The Union agrees to Reap on file with the Company an up-to-date Hit of nama* of tha Union'* Executive members, and also tha names of ths departmental stewards.
ARTICLE fl
PRODUCTIVITY
PARTI
STANDARD OF PRODUCTIVITY
0:00 a) Tha Union recognizes the right of tha Company to establish, IniUtuts, modny or adjust, and to put Into affad standard* of productivity. Thaea atandarda of productivity should be Just and aquitabla and taka Into aocourtt the effort that may ba expected of experienced workers having normal working oapaoMea, and performing good quality work efficiently.
b)	In keeping with above, such just and aquitabla atandarda aa established by tha Company shall be reoognbssd by industrial engineering principles, shall contain allowance for fatigue, rest and personal needs.
9:01 In agreement with the principles mentioned above, the Union agrees to cooperate with the Company to anoowegs a good efficiency of the employees by a reasonable level of productivity, aoooreNng to the opportunity given by the Company.
9:02 The normal paoe which shall prevail, whatever teohnlqut Is being used to measure the time, la the rhythm where effective epeed of an average person, walking without any load, In a straight line on level ground, at a epeed of three (3) miles per hour, Judgment of the speed of each elemant shall be matte.
8:03a) In acoordanoe vriththe present clause of productivity, the Union acknowledges the right of tha Company at any time to Institute a bonus plan *8tandard minutes" with a base rate of any operation actually paid hourly; to change the present piece work rates (with or without base rates) Into "Standard minutes” system, with a base rate.
b) Base rate represents job load at 100%.
out a |ob load of


b)	When a Job on bonus systsm "Standard minutes" Is reverted to • regular hourly rets, or when ths Company dsddss to Institute a "measured hourly Job", lbs hourly rats will be determined based on the average of the employee or employees concerned.
Minimum:	Will not be lets then
the base rate times 126%.
Maximum:	Will not be greater
than the base rate times 140%.
c)	If a change contemplated by the Company oonceming a wage Incentive plan occupation or a "maaaured hourly Job" hae to do with a revision of a measured work etemant or the addition of a measured work element or the oomplete elimination of e measured work element because of the Installation of different meohlnery or if a place work occupation Is to be ptaoed by the Company on the bonus system or aoootdlng to a "measured hourly Job", or If a new occupation is Introduced on bonus system or aooordlng to a "measured hourly Job", these m^or changes require a trial period. The Company wW meet the oonoemed employees In the presence of the Union VIoe-Preeldant of their plant end In Ms abeenoe of the departmental steward concerned 10 days before He epplcetlon, and the Union will be advised In writing of the nature of the change 5 days before He Introduction.
When major changes occur In relation with work elements In the situations described below, then these work elements part of the
new or existing Job will be outlined Ins written description that wW be handed to die Union as wsH se the emptoyeee oonoemed.
d)	Whan tha Company' a dadaton to Institute the method of remuneration "measured hourly Job" on an oooupatlon whloh wa» alwaya paid aooordlng to tha bonua ayatem "Standard! minutes" laada to a reduction In the order of 8% of the hourly rata earned by tha amployaa oonoamad in oompariaon with hla avaraga hourly rat# at tha Urns tha hourly rate of tha "maaaurad hourly Job" waa aat, than tha amployaa wil be etiglbto to a parmanant transfer on a Job ocoupiadbyan amployaa with iaaa aanlortty and to
taoalva a kilning following tha potting prooadura at 16:02 and 18:03.
a)	Notwithstanding tha provisions of bam 24:01 a), whan tha Company wHI hava decided to oomblna two (2) or mora existing Jobs In ordar to create a naw pamwnant Job with one (1) single salary rate, the Company wW determine the rate of selary of tha newly created Job by ohooifng tha hlghaat salary rata among tha Joba that ara being oomblned.
9:06 Tha Company doee not undertake to guwantae any fixed amount of bonua payment, time standard* and Job assignments shall b* so sat as to provide tha average experienced employs* with an assignment which offers a bonua opportunity averaging 28% of tha base rata. It Is understood that there la no
obligation on the Company to offer such a bonus opportunity whan tha assignment Is not avalabie or when the employs la not capable of handling such an assignment
9:06 a) Any Introduction or major change mentioned In fc04 a) and o), will require a trial period of six (8) calender weeks, (extendable) up to a maximum of three (8) calendar months, if, attar this trial period no disagreement or grievance has resulted from this change In tha tan (10) days following tha masting foreseen at 9:06 b), tha change will be considered a* being aooeptad.
b)	Within ten (10) day* following tha and of th« trial ptrlod, the Company wfli convoke « matting with the smptoyws oonoamed in the praaenoe of the Union Vice-President of their plant as well as the stewards of the department oonoemad to dtaouea the results of the trial period. The Company wilt Inform the union In writing of the results of the trial period and aieo of the meeting. Fating to reach an agreement the Union wi Inform the Company and win request their time study apeolwat to verify the validity of the rets and/or of the Job loads In dispute, In such a oas* It Is understood that (he Union has to make his time study specialist available for a masting with those of the Company within ten (10) working days from tha rsoelpt of the results from the Company of the trM period. This period osnbt extended by mutual agreement. Saturdays, Sunday*, statutory holidays end annual vaoations shall not be counted In delays of this deuce.
c)	Al changes made by the Company remain In force during the period of dispute, •nd the employees oonoamed win be paid aoQoidlng to the new rates and/or aooordlng to tha cast wM carry out tha established Job load until final agreement of th* two (2)
If the results of the joint tests or the decision or srbitretlon bring an morses# In toe standard time value, e retroactive compensation will be pah) as of the date of the change aooordlng to the "Standards minutes" bonus system only.
d)	Joint teste will be made by a time study specialist of the Company and a representative of tha Union to satHa the grievance on the change oonoemed, or to agree on a compromise. The extent of the Joint teete eaHed for may be determined by the pNHee by mutual agreement. If the reeulte of the Joint teete ana euoh ae not to affect the original value or work load by plus or minus 3% or lose, no change Is to be made. If the reeulte of the aald Joint teete affisot the original value or work load by greater than plus or minus 3%, the value or wont load will be so revised and put Into effect. Any joint teats shall be of the same nature and to me eame extent ae the testa upon which the change wee originally based. The extent ofthe Joint test called for may be revised by the parties by mutual agreement
e)	If the parties, alter having completed the joint teste and having studied the results, cannot agree on the results of the said Joint tests, the question wM be submitted to step 3 or the grievance procedure and, In falling to reach an
agreement at this step, the question eat then be submitted to arbitration In conformity with article 10 ofthls contract
8:07 During the trial period, the employees
oonoemed wUI work under
the new oondWons and will be paid
eooordng to the new rates. In the case ofthe'Standard minutes" bonus system an adjustment shall be reimbursed every three (3) weeks of the trial period if their average hourly earnings during the aald period are Inferior to their average hourly earnings of the lest thirteen (13) weeks preceding the
trial period.
9:08 The "average hourly earning*" wherever mentioned In this oontriot, denote the average hourly earning* of the la*t thirteen (13) week* excluding overtime, shift premium, the hourly rate applicable when an en^loyw works additional noun a* well as aU bonuias except for production bonuses.
PART 3
CONTROLLING AND ADJUSTING EXISTING RATE AND WORKLOAD
9:09 a) The Union aoknowtodgea the right of the Company to re-study, Investigate and to adjust the Job load* a* well a* the inoenttu* rate* which yield earning* exceeding 39% over the base rate itor new lobe studies or existing Jobs eooordfng to the bonus system "Standard Minutes" and to re-study, Investigate end to adjust Job toads as well as the standard time value tor a "measured hourly JotA
msjusurhd hourly job
The Company wD) provide following a written request from the Union, the appropriate Information relating to the Job toad established tor a particular measured hourly job when ft hat valuable reasons to
believe that the conoamed job load could exceed one hundred percent (100%).
In the event thet the Union requests a vertlloatton of Ns eoeurety, the Company WIN
authorize th* Union's designated specialist to proceed with such a verification. The
Company and the Unton recognize that the above vartfloatlona and If applicable all modifications to tha oonoamad Job loads aim at maintaining thorn at one hundred percent (100%).
b)	Incentive rate* or if the case mey be, the •tandard time value of "meaeured hourly Jobe" can be nwwtudled and changed when they become loose or tight due to:
1.	The revMon. addition or exeluaion of a work element and/or a meaeure work element.
2.	Increaee or reduction In frequency of end breaks or faults will be revised every three (3) months and adjusted If necessary.
3.	A change In the weight of the supply, and finished paokage, In the speed of the machine, in the working methods, or any other unforseen change which would be recognized by the parties.
o) The Company and tha Union agree that the control of rates and of the standard time value of "measured hourly Jobs" mentioned at 9:09 a) and b) elm at maintaining work toads and/or amployaas earning opportunity for thoea paid as par the bonus sytem "Standards minutes’ within set standards and at maintaining
fair and balanced rates on all oonoamad occupations,
9:10 The changes mentioned In 9:09 a) and
b)	wIN not require a trial period. However foe Company will Inform foe Union In writing
of the nature of the proposed ohenge, of the neoNsary explanations oonoamlng such a change, and this, five (5) working
day* before da date of Impfems ntattorr,
Whan changes require a revision of rates aa per the bonus system "Standards minutes", the production bonus will be calculated each weak by using the newly revised rates as we* as the previous rates for a period of four (4) weeks.
When these new rates compared to the previous rates teduos the bonus opportunity on production, the employee will oontinue to be paid as per the old rates every week during the first four (4) weeks.
Afterwards, he will be paid aooordlno to the new rates. The purpose of this proosdurs la to allow the employee to evaluate the change and to adapt himself to the new rate without loss of opportunity for the first four (4)wseks.
PART 4
BONUS SYSTEM ■STANDARD MINUTE8"
9:11 a) In the case where all machines are stopped due to steam or power outage, Are, flood or any other reason of any nature out of the Company's control, an employee working on Incentive will be paid as per his base rate times 126% during the period where he remains (die.
b)	In ettother oases, the downtime rate applies on the portion of machines that are stopped and regular Inoanttva rate continues to apply on the portion of
msohines which remain In operation if a temporary tranafar la impossible. The downtime rate Is specified on the list of Incentive rates for aeoh Job.
9:12 a) When a machine breakdown occurs In "on* man on* mtohlne* operation only, the operator may consent to eid the repair upon request bythemanagsment and b* paid at his hourly average for th* period h* provide* asslstano* to th* msohanlo. .
b)	An employee who doe* not consent or to not requested to aid as par conditions established at 9r12 a) shall reoelv* his base rets forth* first two (2) hours of th* breakdown,In a said week, after which h* will b* paid as par hb base rate tlmaa 125% for any period of breakdown which ocours In diet same waste of work, and this, If a temporary transfer b Impossible,
ABHfiULlfl
GRIEVANCES AND ARBITRATION
10:00 In order to establish an ordeity procedure for the handling of grievances and disputes, the Union and the Company wfll oooparate at all times for the general welfare and satisfactory clsposal of all oomplelnte, grievance*, disputes, •uggaa-tions or rsprasantations advanced by tetthsr party,
10:01 H Is th* mutual desire of the parties to this agreement, that the oomplelnte of employees be settled In the shortest time possible and It b understood that, before
submitting a written grievance the employee must first dbouas the complaint with hb foreman, In such case, the employee has the ehobe to present hlmsair atone or to do so In the preaenoa of Ms Union representative If he wishes,
10:02 If an employee has a complaint that he was unable to settle after discussion with his foreman, he may take up the matter in a written grlevanoe In the manner and sequence that follows:
10:03 Stop No. 1
The wrong'd employee and/or thi depsrmantai representative and, in his abeenoa by another union representative of the plant, must submit tho grievance in writing to Ns foremen. The foreman concerned must rondtw hie decision in writing within thro# (3) working days following receipt of tbs grievance.
10:04 Step No. 2
If within fhw (5) complete working days following ths dsdslon st ttsp No. 1 tot decision (snot dsomsd sstWsotory, the wrongsd smployss and/or his union Vtoa-Prosldant of (ha plant and In his absanoa ths union President of locsl 137T, must (hen submit the grievanoe In writing to ths plant msnagsr.
Aftar raoaivlng tha grievance, the plant msnagsr shal hold a masting within a period not exceeding five (9) complete working days following Its recaption in tha presence of Ihe foreman and tho oonoamad employee with ths union Vice-President of tha plant snd In his absence, tha President of tooal 137T in order to try and resolve tha grievance before prooseCHng with step no.
3. The plant manager shall render hie decision in writing within this earns period.
10:06 8tep No. 3
Ifthe decision taken at step No. 2 Is not deemed satisfactory, tha wronged employee and/or his union Vioe-Preskient of the plant and In his abaanoe the President of the local oan refer the grievance to tha "Oriswince oommJttee’', consisting of raprasantstlvas from tha Union and tha Company.
Tha grtovenos committee win meat maximum anoe (1) e month ae needed.
10:00 GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
a)	Tha committee is formed of:
- Company's representatives:
lUnOtiOri Of uW
them, could Him be part of
|| Ou|SuMq M«to|duie till m iMuap n ww mmm& • none
PUB 60--01 ffWM* P PtWAOKhipjO
fmimmu w m wbiiiiw in ffffflftttjft Jittn oi)>j £vm aud ^imhhbj \m w*m i»!wr»*ip	Bui«otioj «mM <n
tiqtun 0juy\ jimn upm^ tooiwiiiff
30NVA3IM© 3AJi03n00 80=01
•fkiQiJM til
irw|ypn w{
fttnffl nourwiiAi flouiiuB flin saiiiujcirtt
OijM Xptd *MJ «M)Un df|S p(BU Mi|)
lMti fl—MtlllHIMI liatn HIM II ■iMHQ
“ ■» ■»*« tt^«H||vipnwD iv	ft
0lft JO told tuo Xa DttMdtti iou aiB auukc
”~ff (BW	WfWB	PfM |VM fP*pp B»lw^|
9^ J] ttAIW>H HpJMl iHMMVtpwi p^yjwuftp \mm i a p#&iokwc1 /^§IH ]fK| ffyipVjq Hi WHH ffiXttlKl WpUIIMmUlll MURAMAftpUBllY X090V
’•*i#U*UOO
BtllAB w“i BtiniiUJ Mil iO tjtofi jamma
***	p|f*| prwppwwew waff fpm p«fppp #wpMV|Vw
|m] iinii imm* awtain wmin nilflifll—fl
• rn UM|B «C| pi mpuhu «A JO man V
■■(ilWitH IMU Ml nMMwmn mi miWny
W«rwpvfw	fm |f* p*M«a|^ ■ *P*f| *Pfw*
uo WfjJBd *0 woQfiod m fi JO f>PKl
*MlJOlW||B|fKlJ^«liOUO#«j(delB -icvpwn ft| BOBBIflWIftfO ^BBWf PjH0l|l wlU. 'WfliBdUH^fqpWluoiwrwtlp •m $o /CiBUJuunt b oaf put Ajuo modind uo9«uuoju| m {BUfdfid «jt wtnujuu «mku.
mot ii i turn
•autwiiS 4ow jo ff)nu|iu tm«pn oi wjou
/CMMMKMMI ftp fjjf| |ffj fBUJUIdtOO f(HJfWfiP
ftp p rfufdwoo m & «p»ufi»iclw y
sainNiw a
b)	Any dispute that ooours dlrsody between ths Company and tha Union, In relation with ths Interpretation or application of the present collective agreement, atn be submitted In uniting by one of the parties directly to tha grievanoe oommlttes.
10:09 PROCEDURE - ARBITRATION
In the event that the grievance or dispute cannot be satisfactorily settted by the methods outlined above, the matter shall be referred to arbitration. In such an event, the parties will submit ths grtevanoe to a single arbitrator.
In the event that the Company and the Union cannot agree upon the choice of a single arbitrator, tee Minister of Labour for the province of Quebec shall be called upon to name a single arbitrator. The decision of the single arbitrator shall be rendered within thirty (30) working days after the hearing, but such a dalay may be extended by a written mutual agreement from tea Company or tee Union. The decision of tee •Ingle arbitrator shall be final and binding upon all partite to this agreement.
10:10 Ths single arbitrator osnnot add to, change, modify or alter the terme of tele agreement.
10:11 The Company and the Union agree to pay an equal amount forth* foaa and expenses of tee single arbitrator.
ARTICLE It
TEMPORARY TRANSFERS
11:00 WHEN A TEMPORARY
TRANSFER 18 REQUIRED TO FULFILL
PRODUCTION NEED®
e)	Whin the Company transfers an empkiyse temporarily on an operation other than hie own during the course of his regular shift to fulfill production needs although the employee hes sufficient work on hie regular Job. he will then be petd (he highest or the three (^following raise:
1.	Hie average hourly tats as defined at
article 9:08.
2.	The rate of the Job to which he Is transferred (on Inoentive or hourly).
3.	According to the average hourly earnings of employees working on his regular Job, calculated weekly during the period of the transfer.
b)	In so ferae die Company will Judge possible, the temporary transfers may be offered by order of seniority to employees qualified on a Job where It la determined by Management that such a transfer may be done considering the production needs to satisfy.
the operator who Is transferred on an operation paid on Incentive will not acquire under any droumstanoe the average earnings made by the regular operators on the said operation, however he will have the possibility of earning what ha can produce, even ft this taming Is superior to hie average hourly rate. The temporary transfer Is for a period not exceeding forty (40) working days.
In the case whara the tranefor Involves lew favorable working conditions for the employee, the Company wi try to shortsn this period. Following a request made by the employee, at the end of the forty (4o\
working days, the Company may assign when possible, another employee to the said temporary transfer.
11:01 ALL OTHER TRANSFER:
a) When i worker becomes redundant during hie regular thlfl dus to shortage of material, machine breakdown or any other reason, and If, he ta not required by the Company to Mill production need*, the employee oen either punch out or aooept a temporary transfer to another Job It there la one available. If he take* the Job, the employee •hall aooept the rate of thl* operation.
b)	If the operation In question I* on Incentive, he wHI have the opportunity of earning what he can make at the Job even If It la In excess of hl« own average on hie regular operation.
c)	An operator transferred under these conditions wff not drop below the base rats of the operation he has been transferred to. In the case where the employee has not worked on this Job shoe six (6) months or more, he will receive ae guaranteed minimum the base rale plus 16% during flue (6) days In order for him
to re-adapt hfmaatf on this Job.
d)	In connection to the paragraph, both tha Company end tha Union are bound by article 16, In the first plaoe, then the foregoing procedure oan apply.
11:02 PAY RATE FOR H0UR8 WORKED IN OVERTIME:
a) Whan an amployaa aooapts on a voluntary basis to work overtfme on an operation, tha payment of thane hours win be based on tha rate of the oooupetion where overtfme Is accomplished.
b) When the Company tremfom an employee who le already working overtime on an operation other than the one he had voluntarily accepted to work overtime
or
when the Company aekt an employee, at the time he arrival to work overtime, to work on a different job than the one he had accepted to work overtime
or
when an employee temporarily transferred at per 11:00 during Ns regular shift, worke overtime on thle aame Job following hie
1.	The rate of the Job where he waa voluntarily working overt!ma.
2.	The rate of the job he It transferred to (Incentive ou hourly rate).
3.	Applicable only In the caee where the employee waa temporarily transferred following Item 11:00, a« described previously In Item 11:02 b): Ae per the . hourly rate which prevails at the time of the transfer.
ARTICLE 12 SENIORITY
12:00 a) New employees wttl asrvs a probationary parted of sixty (60) working days before acquiring seniority rights. Ths two (2) working days of twalva (12) hours during tha wasksnd ars equivalent to thrss (3) working days of sight (6) hours during thawsak. In particular oasss, the probationary parted may bs longer If at the Company's request an agreement Is reached between ths two (2) parties befbre ths fifty-sixth (Wlh) day worked by the new employee. A copy of this agreement will be mailed to tha Union Vlce-Preskfentofthe plant concerned and will specify the duration of tha probationary period extension which wHf never surpass sixty (60) working days. Onoe this period Is completed, their seniority shad then date beck to their last hiring date with the Company.
b) Exception rule to article 13:01 a). When a naw employee Is lald-ofr due to took of work before having completed his approbation period of sixty (00) working days, and tee duration of the layoff exossds ths duration of service with ths Company, he wtH ba credited In seniority the number of days worked, for probation purposes, provided that the two (2) following conditions apply:
1.	The Company's management wishes to call him back.
2.	Ths length of lay-off does not exoeed six (6) months.
12:01 There are two (2) types of seniority, namely:
a)	Company seniority.
b)	Plant seniority.
12:02 DEFINITION OP SENIORITY a) Company seniority:
Is that which Is accumulated while in the employ of the Company In any department ^
of any plant. Tha Company'* seniority prevail* to determine tha fringe benefits,
b) Plant seniority:
la that which la aocurmilatad whtla in tha amptoy of the Company in any department of any one plant The plant seniority prevalla in oraee of promotion or lay-off within tha plant.
12:03 For tha requirement of tNa contract tha Company and tha plants are defined as follows:
a) Company: Clsyn & Tinker Inc.
Pit No. 1: Top dyeing Pit. No. z	Conventional spinning
PH. No. 4:	Weaving
Pit No. 5:	Burling and mending
PH. No. 6:	Dyeing and finishing
12:04 Each plant will post a seniority list of ad tha employees working In that plant. These sanlortty lists win contain the name of the tegular job of aach employee. The Nats will be poatad In a place permitting each plant employee to verity hie seniority.
The Hst will be revised every four (4) months, e.g. the first (1st) of January, tha first (let) of May end Pie first (1st) of September of each year. Aoopyoftha seniority Hals of each plant will be sent to the Union when these are revised. The Hst
posted win specify the title of the
wl permanent Job at as, tf need be, the one which he
oooupliB on a temporary beats.
ARTICLE 18
L088 OF SENIORITY
13:00 An employee's seniority shall be cancelled and his employment shell be terminated for arry of the following reasons:
1. Iheemployse quite,
2.	If the employee!« discharged and hie discharge Is not reversed through the grievance or arbitration procedure,
3.	If the employee has been laid off end falls to return to work within seven (7) calendar days after he has been notllled by the Company to do so through registered meH sent to the last address known by ths Company, unless he Indicates that he wee unable to report to work for a reason beyond his control which Is Judged satisfactory by the Company,
4.	If the employee Is absent from work for more then five (5) ooneecutlve working days without providing a reason satisfactory to the company tor such absanoe,
6. If the employee overstays a written leave of absence granted by the Company without aeouHng an extension of suoh leave,
6. If an employee having rsoelved a leave of abaanoa works elMWhara ha will lose ad seniority unless he has a written permission from the Company to do suoh work.
13:01 An amptoyae absent from hie work for reasons of lay-off, sickness and
aootdent WIR lose hie seniority and hie employment shell be terminated when the period of absence teaches:
a)	The period of time equivalent to the length of hit seniority at tha baginning of hla abience, In tha case of an employ* wfth Iasi than eighteen (18) months seniority.
b)	IWanty-two (22) months In the case of an employee with eighteen (18) months but teas than five (8) yean seniority.
o) Thirty (30) months In the oasa oTan employee with live (8) years but lets man fifteen (18) years seniority.
d) TWrtyefe (36) months In the case of an employee with fifteen (15) years or more of seniority.
a) If the abeenoe Is oeueed by an acoldsnt at work or an Industrial Illness as covered by the Workmen's Compensation and Professional lllneee Act, the period of abaenoe may reach:
1.	Twenty-tour (24) months In the case wham the smployea has oomplated his probetion period of sixty (80) working dsys and has less thsn five (5) years seniority.
2.	Thlrtyelx (38) months In the case where the employee has five (S) yeeraor more of seniority.
13:02 When an employee Is absent from work for reason of sickness or accident for a period greater than three (3) working days end less than the absence period allowed at 13:01 a), b), o), d), a), tha Company will return Mm to his regular work subject to the following conditions:
a) He will supply upon request a medical certificate giving the reason of his abeenoe and confirming that he may return to his regular work.
31
b) He has the necessary seniority.
c)	He has given notice to the Company of hie Intention to return to work at tent forty-eight (48) bourn prior to the oommenoement of the shift on which he to normally scheduled to work. When It Is Imposeble tor the employee to give such advanoe notice he wM Inform his Immediate superior m soon u possible of his disposal to work.
13:03 The Company oan request from an employee a medical csrtlflcale In case of abuse erf frequent absences of three (3) days or less. When these absences are not justified, the employes is subject to disciplinary measures.
13:04 The Company may grant leave of absenoe to any employee for a legitimate personal reason. Any person who Is absent with written permission shall not be considered to have been lakkrffand seniority will continue to accumulate during his absence.
13:06 TRANSFER OF AN EMPLOYEE OUTSIDE OF THE BARGAINING UNIT AND CONDTriON8 FOR HIS RETURN:
e)	An employee who has completed one (1) year of service with the Company who accepts an occupation outside of the bargaining unit will continue to accumulate alt Ns plant and company seniority rights during twelve (12) months for an occupation
of supervision or three (3) months for any other occupation. During tha three (3) first months the employee will conSnue to pay the union dues.
b) If an amptoyea returns to an occupa-tlon Inside the bargaining unit, at his request or st the Management's request before having completed the prescribed period of twelve (12) months tor an oooupatlon of super-vision or three (3) months tor any other occupation, ha/tihe retains all accumulated plant and Company seniority. In the oaee of an oooupatlon of supervision the employee wfll have to pey retroactivity the union duse whloh normally would have bean collected during the period of the transfer, a.g. between the moment deductions oeased and the return to an oooupatlon
inside the bargaining unit within the prescribed period. These deductions wll be forwarded to the agent designated by the
Union.
It is agreed that In such case, the employee will return to the oooupatlon he held at the time of his transfer provided he hat the required ptentaentortty. f Ms seniority doss not slow him to retom, he can then bump on another Job an employee vrith last seniority.
Furthermore II Is understood that any employee oonosmsd cannot be elglMe to more than one (1) prescribed period of a maximum of twelve (12) months and/or three (3) months whichever Is applloable. It Is understood that those periods cannot be consecutive.
o) if the employee return* on an occupation on the bargaining unit after twelve (12) months, he wM retain Me company seniority end Ms plsnt seniority will be set at abrty (60) working days, this in order to allow Mm to praoada employaes which have not yat oomplstod toalr approbation period. The employee oonoemed must return In priority In the plant where he has lest worked whle he was In the bargaining unit, In the case where this la not possible, he oouU then be considered In another plant where Me services era required.
13:06 c) It shall be the duty of every employee to notify the Company promptly of any change of marital atatue, of address and telephone number.
b) in order to exercise an effective control on changes and to maintain personnel fflae updated, the employees must complete once tt year, a form to this effect oonfir-mlnp or correcting if need be, marital atatue, toll addreae and phone number of each one.
o) Any notice sent by the Company to an employee at his last address as recorded In the raoorde of the Company shall be sufficient end effective notice.
ARTICLE.!*
DISCHARGE
AND
DISCIPLINARY MEASURE
14:00 When e die charged employee dalme that ha has bean unjustly dealt with, he may aek for and receive from the Company the reasons tor Ms discharge. If the Union judges that such a discharge la sufficient reason for a grievance, It shell be directly taken up at step Na 2 of the grievance procedure outlined at article 10 of this agreement with the only exception that all discharge complaints must be submitted In the fifteen (16) working days following the dismissal, and if such a die charge Is not deemed Justified, the employee shell reoefve
toll compensation tor the time lost.
34
14:01 All dfcdpNnary meaaura dating bask mom than eighteen (18) montha will be removed from the employ*'* flit and it will not be taken into aooount by (ha Company at any time,
14:02 Whan Via Company daddaa to add any dladpHnaiy meaeure oonflmted by lettar to an employae’ a file, a copy of the (attar will then be eant to the Union at aoonaa poaoUtfe.
14:03 Whan the Company daddaa to dleoharge an amployaa ha will ba wormed by tha dtvlaton manager or H tha oaaa may ba of tha plant oonoamad, to piaaanoa of the union Vtoa-Pratldant of tha plant and, In hla abaanoa, of another union rapreeen-tatlva of the plant, exoapt whan tha paraon(a) invited doaa or do not ahow up for tha maatlng or unlaat oiraumatanoaa force tha Company to prooaad without delay.
14:04 In tha oaaa whore an amployaa la auapandad, ha will ba aaan by the Manager
or Superintendent of tha dMelon or plant
beforehand, In the preeenoa of tha Union Vtoe-Preeident of tha plant or In Wa abaanca, of another union mpreeentatlve of tha plant.
However, whan Juettfled, an amptoyea can ba aekad fbr Juat oauee by a mpraaentatlva of management In charge, to leave the plant during tha ehlft following an Incident which could lead to a diedpltoary maaaura.
ARTICLE IS
PROMOTION AND LAY-OFF
15:00 DEFINITION OF THE TERM "VACANCY*
For the pwpote of thle cleuee, m vacancy may ooour due to normal personnel turnover auoh m a person being retired, voluntary departure, death, promotion, dltmltsel, retrograded or transfer or employeei to occupations not ooverad by this bargaining agreement, or to any other occupation whenever required by an Inorette In the number of emptoyeae on said occupation,
PART 1 PROMOTION
15:01 POSTING PROCEDURE
a) All permanent vacancy which mutt be potted aha! be for two (2) working days during the period from Monday to Friday,
When the plant concerned operataa with twelve (12) hour weekend ehlfle, according to eohadule referred ae	the notice of
vacancy wW remain potted on Saturday and Sunday.
In order to better oontrol the minimum potting period of forty-eight (46) houra oi nJnety-tlx (96) houre whichever (» appfloabte, detee end hour* of the beginning end end of the potting win be tpaoHiedontheJobveoenoynotiot.
A copy of aaoh vacancy notice will be given to the Union Vice-President of the plant conoemed at the end of the posting period, thfc same potting oompritlng of the name of the oendldete who accepted the Job win be eent to the umonfe offloe at the earttoet convenience.
b) PERMANENT VACANCY:
Whan a permanent vacancy le oraeted on an occupation In the bargaining unit, ft win be tubjeoted to the above poatlng prooedurc.
* pi Hill!
i s*
When the possibility of ■ permanent vaoanoy Is anticipated on an occupation m ttie bargaining unit for reasons such as; In the ease whors an employee accepts a position outside of the bargaining unit or an employee having dsolded to take early retirement or when training Is necessary In advance because of the length of me training period, or In the oase of serious Unas* or serious aoddent or for any other reason offering a reasonable doubt of a permanent vaoanoy. Suoh a vacancy will be submitted to the permanent posting prooedure such as refined to at 15:01 a) andb). Reasons Justifying suoh a posting prooedure wM be specified on the notice,
However, this notice will be automatically canoeded If the reasons stated ere not maintained. In such a case, employees being promoted shall return to the Job they oocupled before being promoted on eooount of this posting.
15:02 The selection of the candidate shell be based on seniority, skid and aptitude required to perform the work. To judge the skill and aptitude of the employee, It is undarstood that a suitable probation period will be slowed unless the candidate had already a probation period within the last twelve (12) months for tols job and was unable to qualify for the occupation.
However, If the Job was affectad by motor technical changes which automata the operation, the twelve (12) month period mentioned previously wNI not be considered. In a esse where no candidate qualifies for the vacancy or if no employees havs signed the notion of "vacancy", the Company wIB hire a new employee to fufflH the “vacancy".
16:03 a) Probation period at the time of promotion.
39
An employee promoted to another Job by following the prooeduree et 16:01 and 16:02 Is eligible to e probation period varying according to the Job. Thla working period cannot exceed Wxty (60) working days unleee a written agreement It reached between the plant manager and the Union Vloe-Prealdent of the plant concerned. Thla written agreement ahould take place before the fiftyroMh (08fh) working day of the probation period and e copy of the agreement will be mailed to the Union.
16:03 b) Dadston period for an employee that quaHflt* himself.
If during dm probation period the Company feels that the promoted employee k wel enough quailed to fuil the Job satisfactorily, the oonoemed employee should be notified. Within the twenty (20) working daya following thla notice the employee ahal rondom hla decision If he stays on this Job or If ha prafote to return to hla provtoue occupation. For moans of control, ths employee wdll sign a form to thla efTect
16:04 e) When a temporary "vacancy Is foreseen to *xoeed forty (40) working d«y»
on an occupation In the bargaining unit, a "temporary vacancy” ratios wW be posted for two (2) working daya during the period
of Monday to Friday. Whan ths plant concerned operates with twelve (12) hour weekend shift*, aooordlng to the eohedule referred *s	the noMoe of Job veoenoy
will rams in posted on Saturday and Sunday in ordar to alao cover emptoysoa wortdng on these shifts. Tha choice of the applicant will ba based on hla oapabHKy of filing the Job without training or with a minimum of training. Tha amployse who obtained tha Job will bt notified by hla foreman within tha nerd five (6) days.
* !n thA ohm urihoio Si# fompomry
vaoftncy
ilffo to ttpltQi #i omptoyoo obfont duo to otatoMt*	oocitfont ondtof
dtuiofioo tMNh iHUfirOwdoit# tHo dkvoUofi inrtif rnnroipnncf to fht porforf nf ohoonmi of tho rogular amployoe snd hhi norm wlWbeipodffodonthonotfco.
- In tho oowwftoro tho tomponwy MOMcy okrotocovofoporOoulir •maroon ■nwor w swviy « pjowiwiun
nood, dm dunOon of tho ttmpofsry
vftoonoy wit bo ipvoMoi on tno iwflo#
^MOdUfcauttfOOO doft ftftftft 4fcfeJfM2llOiMflhaft iuil^dk
HVmiuiRt)| vfi	WliOP lll^F
Do modi and • brtof dMoriptton of (Kt Mtn of tho woik to bo dont* Such
ftOiitno m Jti	MMft	liftj ojfcuA nii4iftft loo
poWiffl Wp ™ fiwwio ™ piiWi in
Hia ftiu jjil miiimiIUb ffilli-tfiiittfi lift alfflliirflfiii WNP ff)l WrfWWtm&E
pMtod OHM
provision ot Item 15:01 a) untoo# it l*
0} wfHiit b ytcmof potiou »
wtffipwwiry	hfOQrOM II
^pO^hflOOOOi 1aAOOOCy^^ tlto OOOlti UOCOUCjy uitfl ho ho^podod 00 0 pOO^OO^lAUlt IWACHUCy occortifng lo iho prooodumo at t&01 and
18stt.
GJ WftOfl «n ftfnpiOjOa IS WWIWOIO TO FmuMT)
tohls fioultf job m obtono# ooftod> ho oom book on Ohi oocuootfoft ho Hud
OkA 0fhd|0 VLft ^ftftMftAdjftftftAA jftj^ftlftftjftioftjtl
yVTOfft lift HSI* I nV VnVniyVff pfOnTOwPO
|	gJfL m *—	fjjfc |.1|| iiftK
wnporomy to wotwr jod wii di «u»wft on# to return to N§ pievkxi# Job. Rooooni for abtoncoof onoftiptoyoofretn Mi togirftr wotfc coo 0o< rootofntiy, ftcknooii OOCtdOft^ tU^*08| OUOOOOO Ultdl pohfUhotOUt
toontfif tompoiiffy to Miothir oeoupodon or My otho? tooAon judQod to bo
d)	All new job created permanently and posted at a temporary job wfll ba pooled aa parmanant within a parlod not exceeding six (8) month* aflar Hi attribution, It to also undaratood that tha procadura provided at arHola 24:01 muat ba oomplatad baton pfoeatdlne with auoh a porting.
Whanthla new job partially or totally •llmlnataa existing joba, tha amptoyaas affected wfll ba iha drat to ba oonaldarad by order of seniority.
16:06 a) Length of validity for a nodoe or vacancy:
Tha names of candidate# eligible appearing on tha notice of vacancy remain valid aa long aa tha vacancy la not filled. Whan the length of time between tha data of the posting and tha (Me where tha candidate did not qualify himself or rafuead to fill the Job aMoaada four (4) montha or whan no candidal# will have bean aaalgnad to training during title aame parlod, a aaoond notice will ba poeted In order to provide an opportunity to amptoyaea having oomplatad thalr probation period to fill the vaoartcy befbra awarding the promotion to a new employee. When more than one (1) vaoartcy to created on tha tame occupation the number of required cancHdatee mutt ba
otherwlee each vacancy will be posted separately.
41
o) An employee promoted to a Job being paid with a bat* rate plus production bonus will ba paid according to tho bate rata of the Job to wWoh ha la promoted and will reoelue the production bonus that ha aamad aa ha progresses and qualHtes hlmaatr.
A» of the aiavanth (11*") day worked, tea amployaa who haa baan promoted will ba paid at the minimum the base rate plus twenty (20%) of tha baaa rate of the Job to which ha wai promoted.
15:08 An amployaa promoted to a now Job by following tha procedures at llama 18:01 and ie:Q2 that qualified hlmeeifand remained on thle now Job wi not ba dHglMe to apply for another Job for a period of time proportional to tha length of time required tor hla approbation period and to random Madaololon. The ratio being uoed to determine tha minimum length or time for an amployaa to remain on a naw job ahall be one (1) month for eaoh week required for tha approbation period and for him to random hie daciaion aooordlng to Mem 10:08 a) and b). However tha minimum duration eetebllehed win not axoeed eight (0) calendar months.
EXAMPLE: HYPOTHESIS
If an amployaa it promoted according to tha mentioned procedure and require# three (3) weeks to do tha work aatltfactodly, and take# an extra weak to
inform tha Company teat ha wishes to remain on this naw Job, e.g. that tha Company hat waited a total period of four (4) waaka before being Informed ofltdalty If tha amployaa remains on this naw Job; aooordlng to tha ratio being used tha promoted amployaa shsK remain a minimum of four (4) months on this naw ooouoatlon.
SUMMARY:
Week oT approbation: 3
<+)
Week of decision:	1
00
Ratio:	1
Months minimum:	4 months
15:09 Whsn an employee applies and receives a Job on which he It already quaUfled; end hae pravtouwly acoompHshad that Job satisfeotorlly, Him 10:07 does not apply, however, the employee shaH not be eligible to apply tor another Job tor a period of time proportional to the length of time required tor him to random hie decision to the Company once he has fled this vacancy. The ratio being used to
determine the minimum length of time for an employee to remain on a Job under these oondMtanawlR be one (1) month tor each fun week it takes him to render his
EXAMPLE: HYPOTHE8I8
Week of decision:	1
(x)
Ratio:	1
laalilfcltfetoh AaAAa	tS MAAtfettl
Momns minimum:	i monm
15:10 TRADESMEN
e)	DEFINITION: All trades reoognized by toe Department of Labour suoh as: Electridan, stationary engineer, pipefitter. Tbeae form the tradesmen covered by toe present ooleetlvs agreement
To be recognized as a tradesmen the employee muet poetess Ms competence oerd end conform Nmtetf to the Uoenoa requirements as stipulated and defined by the Department of Labour and Man Power ofQuabeo.
Th* tradesmen employee* muat be fully qualified, win Informed and competent in all aepeete of (hair hade and abte to aaetet and dinsct the effort* of employee* on probation as wed aa helpw* or apprentices that am aaalgned to help them, and mu»t accomplish all mHoaUanaoua worfc ralatad to th* requirement! of the job.
b)	PROCEDURE TO BE PROMOTED
AS TRADESMAN
When a "perminent vacancy" le created on one of tht joba mentioned at 10:10 a), the Company will poet tha Job opening In the reipeotive plants aooordtng to prooedure at 18:01 and 15:08. Afterwhloh If the Job la not Milled the Company wll than poet tNa Job In all tha plant! In order to determine if wfthto tha other employees aoma of them have tha nooeaeary prarequleltee and are Intareated In the Job. Theaeleotlonofthe candidate ahall be baaed on the praraqulallee for the job and aieo according to the oompetenoe of the candidate based on Ns practical
experience previously acqulrad.
c)	RIGHT TO BUMP IN CASE OF
LAY-OFF
The tradesmen employeee with oompetenoy card working aa an electrician, stationary engineer, pipefitter are not eligible to apply for other occupation*, except In cate* where the employee I* no longer capable of accomplishing tha different teak* related to the requirement* of his occupation due to for example sickness or accident reeultfng In an Important loee of hte general capadtlee or for any other reasons judged aooeptable. Furthermore, thee# employee* will be eltfbto to apply fora "permanent vacancy on other Jobs within their reipeotive plant alter having held for a period of three (3) years on* of the Jobe part of the tradesman to which they were promoted. However, In case of lay-off, they may prewill themeelves of their seniority to qualify themselves aa per Hem 15:15:
•	The electrician*, on an occupation at plant No. 2,
-	The stationery englnaera, on an occupation at plant No. 6,
-	Thaplpeflttarewill reoah/ethasama privilege* according tothelraenlorityon an occupation In their respective plant,
d) TRADESMEN CLASSIFICATION
List of job* or function! eoooitHng to knowledge and competence as tradaaman classification aa stated at appendix *1".
ELECTRICIAN WITH (LICENCED
•	Load
•	More than one (1) year axparlanoa
-	Less than one (1) year experience STATIONARY ENflNEEB
■ Stationary engineer (2nd date)
• Stationary engineer (3rd deaa)
•	Stationary engineer (4th data)
PIPEFITTER (JOURNEYMAN? LICENCE)
-	Pipefitter lead
-	Plpefltterwtth more than one (1)yaar experience
-	Pipefitter with leta than one (1) year experience
8) JOB REQUIRING SPECIAL.
IBAIhllMfi
1. Jobe requiring epadal training are the fORowIng:
• Loom fixer (raptor and prajedito)
• Loom fixer (prafooll*)
Loom fixer (raptor)
- Maintenance mechanlo:	-Claae
A
•CtoaoB • CImC - Apprentice
2. In the event of a "permanent vacancy" on tho malntonanoo moohanlo or loom four job, tho Company will past tMi vacancy acoordfcig to tho procedure fbreeaen «t Homs 15:01 and 16:02 In fha reapecttve
Tho oholoo of the applicant for on# or tho other Job wM bo made from praraquMtoo based on aptitudes, knowledge and ability neceeaary to accomplish the Job. The
eandldafoe Intaraated In any vacancy at one or the other Job irtll have to be submitted to the appropriate written taets In order to have their eptltudea and knowledge evaluated (n relation with mechanic*. Following this, the choice of the applicant win be baaed on plant oeniortty among thoae who aattofaotorUy poaaeaa the neoeesary praraqulaltaa. In order to be pramotod to tin pravtoua lobe, the appMoant muetoomply with the quaWloatlon raqidramento aet by the Company baaed on Itaneeda.
However, In the event that none of the applicants for the "permanent vacancy* that underwent the required toeta, peaaed the teata, and undr theoondWon that there were at leaettwo (2) applicant* for the vaoancy, then the Company wffl prooeed with the choioeofthe apploant In the following manner:	. ,
a)	The persons in ohargs atsmmlng from the teaming Institution In the field of mechanics, ae foreseen at Item 18:10 e) 5., win oompHe the test reiulta of all sppiiosnts In order to determine the average grade obtained by them.
b)	Afterwards, the persons in charge stemming from the teaching Institution wd determine the eppltoante who obtained an equal or superior grade to the average grade of all appllosntf. Inthlacaee, the nemesofthaae applicant* win be oommunloatad In writing to tha Company and to tha Union.
c)	Tha choio* of th* applicant w(N bo baaad on aenlorlty among tha applicant* having obtained an equal or superior grade to tna average grade of applicant* who underwent the required teats for the "permanent vacancy*.
Tha Company will aak tha daaelfloatton tests Commlttaa to make raoommandatlona within the mandate it win give to the Commlttaa to thle effect.
For the melntenenoe meohanloiob a vacancy oen be created at the level of "Apprentice". The parttee could by mutual agreement waive this rute and proceed with tha posting of a specific dees according to the need.
It la agreed that tha employees oocupytng the Jobe requiring apodal training must carry out tha various tasks ralatsd to ths requirements of thslr respective Job.
FUTURE PERMANENT VACANCY:
wn#ff um woii^wy oonsfcwi nt
«yM^I|U|||< «■# m AntoitiMt thiaHManAHt iuMakK,!
poii»^y of i fUHiif jwitwiim vicincjr
je6	-M#tie* l*La nnnt«l«4i%rt ■ B mjiImI SkmImImu*
m On* w vw |QW roqUiiw^ IpfGW uwrung,
to® job will oe pcstod In th® respective plsnt Theiwon
th® postinjj tslfl h®
rnamtonea on u, i mi omaioaiw inwfWnKi in tills future "perrrurtent vioancy* wSI htvc to sign their nam® on th® potting and will
t®§ts ®s par provisions of ttorn % of tots
be transmuted a® fonmn to tolc same article.
U |a |iaJ«iJuuut SSs*S thm iraMn-?f>JmSmm h—rftif
u (V tfrrCPiflwu TIVi ww OmCrVOfSVf fllWlJ tiimatirtiri tdtttsCoffimv1 iuMkfito th® tmts provkifld in the®® droumsUwoe®, will not hove to be submittid ono® again In ttie event tost they apply for this "permanent vacancy".
tt®®ssv®fi	th® prs^^ous
paragraph) lliiintotoofld toetatoeiito® OompMy dAtonnlnea th®t It i® n®os®®oiy to
flil a "parma/Tent vacancy* atone of tha jobs concerned, it wDI bo posted ts per th® prooedur® provided In this Item.
3,	jfiwDffw®®® iKemated to to® Iota
requiring apf^a) training, exoaptfor ^S®^stao^m®sr nasdtaolo aptpnantloe, sms mot aUglbto to apply fbf otoer jobs,
Howavtr, the ptewiou® does not apply to toe
to carry out the various tasks related to the reoulrwmerrt* of hfs tab diM to far «anwi*
s^^^^eswa^ee^^si rs^e	^e^as esse^e sws p*^s ihwhi e^e^w
itWM Of 90wG9ih IMulOg W W ifpXwn
l**<fc jsi LkIa	fta nahfP^1**-*	fUus nm r
loss vf no yonwrBi GBpapiiines or tor any other reaeon deemed aooeptabie by die fJompsn^r* ^udbe^niore, these employees will be eligible to apply for a ’‘perframint vacancy" ort other Jot* after having held for a parted of three (3) yearn one of these jobs be was promoted to,
However, In the ca»e of a lay-off, the employees pratedl thsmsshres of their •entorfty to qualify, foHowtrHI Mm 15:11, on • lob in their reaDectlve plant,
ea jesse we ees^eii
b) When tayoNi become iwciivtiy on a
i Afldwka* MkAjdAl	Ml-ittllftliAsi
I9P rW)iNVinp tpvpRf WlRMinfli Wfi bjyllfnw
employee* with teeft plant eenlorfty will tie the first layed off.
c)	When lay-off* become nsoienry on the job of "Malntsnsnos mechanic", qualified employee* with the least plant ssnforfty will be meflrnteleyed off, providing that etleeet one } "Meimenence mecnanitr win a remain* on the lob fa this seme olsni.
1 iHfii r eme par * w*^e pnF*" ■■ I esrs^F ^^^sfipsp yer^afeai
lea 4tup	lifts^A fftui
rl#W8nii i it Im9 "fwftl Sim aw B«*
Hi |‘*fn* — —	mtmmm jk |k_| *»m**Um
'iMinisnsrOa rvmnanis vRnv n wm wwiw
on the job fa the plant concerned is the ons subjected to a layoff due to the fiat that tie
fwPi 109 Mp pWH Hflwfl^ft wfWfwpB tfl ®JttjD^C)5WP99 00	98W19 Jofe1 OttV®
omsf QfpsvinBSiKHii ana nwi nwi pnm
isniority than Hw previous employee, this ia«1 employee will remsfa on the Job In the plant.
60
4. a) f. Thorites gowning tha recognition of quaHftcotloni, oompatanoa and knowladga are defined end Mt by the Company baaed on Ha needs for the apprentice and desses A,B,C levete of the Maintenance mechanic job a* wall at for tha loom fixer (raplor and praMa), loom flxar (prqjeeWe) and loom flxar (raptor) Joba. Tha Company wNl aak tha daaelflcatlon taata Committee to maka raoommandatlona within tha mandata It wl# gfce to tha Committee to this effect
2.	During tha oouraa of tha praaant collective agraamant, tha Company vrillghw a mandata to tha daselfloatton taata Commlttaa In order to review tha danMoattan taali for tha apprantloa (aval of tha joba oonoamad In tha pmaant Item, based cm otea and criteria that It wRI datarmina tnaooordanoa with provlatona at Hem7.ofthiaartlola. However, this epeoMo mandata wIR not limit tha posstolllttee for tha Company to give othar mandatoo to the committee.
b)	In addition to tha appropriate tasts apaoWeally praparad for aaoh following fob and level: loom flMar (rapier and projectfe)", loom flxar (prajactte)". "loom flxar (rapfar)" aa wall as tha "apprantloa* level and oiaiaaa ”C", "B",
"A" of tha Malntananoa mechanic Job, a document antitlad "guide book for tha candidates of daaamoation taata for pravtoualy mentioned jobe"wiba handed to each candidate oonoamad before tha daealflcatlon teats to which they wlU be submitted to.
Tha gulda book win contain partlnant Information dating with dNfwant evaluation atagaa In ordar to ba abla to aooada to the joba oonoamad auoh aa tha paaalng grada of vartoua taata aa waR aa a itet of rafaranoa hooka.
TRAINING;
Bo Olid bOjOOQli^J
to th* Job of *AteMMfiiflo§ flwohw^
0	^IBOOOOOOOf* IdOOWfiOJ^i id^ft
Ml MyyJHtil OattiHilMOM fil HV^yiMAMlIlk Jbuf
np¥"fO M	liHFiniO 111 piOrWOilMl IW
■j'lffiy	aImaa ^PWIa IaaWIaa	fct*
WA TOT VIH1 UINi I Mil uwrnny will DC
jyd At. ^	ftfcfcj &Ama
mjwoo cm *no	ooUpw^WNPw wjf inc
(^^ttioony ond odll im jp^won O^tfio fwitbod
chwifnbyH.
A iptoffic trvlnlna to proporo for tooto of "dtwMi C", of t irtnlmurn duration of oinhty (BO) houro, \rtMb» gfoori to —oh o mptoyoo of INo	tovM dUdfiQ dw poHod
workodatthtelovol AopMWctmMflfli to
pWpOnP HViVIO OT vnm O f Of 0 PmIWIHimJi
duratkmofolflhty (80) bourn, will b*flh«n
PWHOw m^^rnl^ww 0% plw
vonojl « minim wHI bi gfvort «sa"Cl«s*l
ii minimum duration of ygmy (80) Houm,
f
"teA^of 10) houm,
ot
8f on ooflpiin^oo fiooo not onooood iim
m#orttkiiltMtft)f •t,Clt»f,,towtikjnhi li
mrAtMtiMmA ftn tkAAi ujMJ OK** Iim b hmmIMIHu v^nEniiffiKi lvi P*Ow H®* ®ipn Pr ii
otflMnfl Nmo ^MomompiPtfilnlnofor
4Wa	*--Lm ■aawaiI *0*8*^ amiafcl*NEii^A aOiMMiAioiifc
uia iavw coroirnoci« i na minimum ownrawi oftWitroInlnq^lbooitartyl^houm. H
M A Mkl aiMiiMm <*^*-**i* <& Ok
o* Any cnipRjrii pfonwow b in*
Mofnto nmoi moohwOoiobomAftHi
^HgiiL|_ Oat a	a^O rtl no
BNpPB III I ypIPipi W WlPWIWnlWll
^jfiiiiiMMiilti^ l* O&ua jMMittM jo£ AjOuiMumjuyiNflStflO
BooofuinQ ro ina oraor w •ovangwiwH,
n^ilfth la faun ik. “Inriranllra** layal <n
wHCnlit RORtlii nOprmtwv mrm w# Claw C, from ClowC to Ctaoo Band from CfaMBteCIwiA.
In order to pass from one classification to another, the oonoemed employee will have to have worked for a minimum of twelve (12) months In the aarne daseHlostton and succeeded to the setMacdon of the Company the theoredoal and praotM teat* requited so as to accede to each oonoemed dassMoation.
The appropriate theoretical and practical teete will be prepared by a reoognfaed educational Institution In the field of maintenance mechanio foUoring Inatruotiona, criteria and rules established by the Company besed on He needs. The Company will ask the deaMleatlon teats Committee to make reoommendatlons within the mandate It will give to the Committee to this effect, The testa win be administered by the speoMlets in thla matter outalde of the Company.
6. The employee who did not euooaod 'the theoredoal and praodoal teats required to aooede to a oerialn otaaaHloatlon will not be ellptbta to undaipo onoe again the testa prescribed for a period of four (4) calendar months following the date the teat results which he was submitted to were
oonflrmed.
™i fBOOmfTwnoinKwlt meoe Or disagreements wttWn the oommwee concerning the recommeixlitions to be mede by the oammlttee, WH be eubrnttW to the Company rapweentithe deejgnfted to ooordlnato tti conunltt#®* sworiti by mom® of the specialist jn the Hold of vininp Omwwi oi «w Miii^iny.
The leoommendetione mid® or
<|}ikAfliiimiuuukMt>	Alkali.	baiUI
(aMBfl9m8ntl wroUfi ifl uOliwnifwV WW D9
llkatatiWli	kA —1^^.——^
Qoomm win Pv rwxiinpQ irKi
-----4«i||* MiMy^|Un W< iL«
mmimmvac w m oofiwi^w oy inv
flk tfftJL Ititifl Juf bAttlielMkJlfe aualn|d|a
ipMHIMnffi W18 nMQ vi nlKiiy (mwn9 Of
the Compiry.
9i Tha employee ooncewed will be
iuui^u	w At* —	(ka iialk ffeafad
PfOMTWO Dy WW cpBUltlVtl in win TlflQ
outside of the Company, of the reeultof the toot he underwent* PuithnnioiVi oft the Union' e raque^, hewWbe Informed by the «am+	n* e«* "omit obtained
fottowlng the evsluetlon done wtti the help
—Jf aji-—. Ag| -t	*aaA4&a£h Aa^jU
Ol	TOippt^HlOTwIllWIlawi
If *•— ■mt||,|	JUtia fi&a, Aaaf --
n m wiptoyw Tiiti to ran rw wsq
•ubmWedtohecen, upon requeet, meet
TtAfii *1   Hi iritktilik mm if Iha A--*-
win Wm (pociiiiwM Mfiinwwfici Hi in In order to receive the neoecsiry
tetCewwMMl^ut jn ttfeA	^aafaaf fleeieA lu
8, An *mpk$M wh&hiW t» Jab of
Ijji1 potting) am
agercae n» riBm to Dump on pi jtw wnnin We own plant If he to l»yed off of hie regular lob, providing that this job & occupied by employees with lies plint seniority who ere, or fteve bHiti olase/ned frt the aame dm as the one obtained by fte employee
10.	Only an employee belonging to the job of "Malntinanoe medienfcf,
wfHtse
required to eooede to eeoh
the order of progression foreseen In this artlcli.
16:11 EXCLUSIVE JOBS
Forttie requirements of the present agreement, the Company end the Union agree that under normal working oondWons, the Net of Jobs classified by plant represents ali Jobs assigned to the workers for which the Union Is certified.
Also, It la agreed that these Jobs will not be carried out by foremen when an employee can do the work and Is available. For the upkeep and emooth running of operations, this wlH not have the effect of preventing them to oarry out Jobs In cases of dreuirwtanees outside one' e control, acts of <3od, or when It Is a question of training personnel, of verifying the state of various equipment, of proceeding with experimentation work, of development, of quality oontroi or other naeeroh work deemed neoessary by the Company.
Whenever a new Job Is created on a permanent beels, end procedure at Ham 24:01 Is completed, it will automatically be added to the 1st of Jobs of the plant oonoemed.
Note; Abbreviations thereafter Indicate department* aooortllng to article 22:13.
PLANTS - CLEYN & TINKER INC. RIANT #1 -TQPPYEINQ
66
Abbreviation Woo) baling
Conventional top dyer
Conventional top loader
Flntahlng after oomblng
Preparation, combing and finishing (combined Jobs)
Vlgoureux
r
Combing
Convaralon
T
Meohlne cleaner
M
Combing preparation 8errioantQpaiator
T
Warehouse
■HP
Warehouse (Yam packer)
Maintenance meohanlo
Paoker
w
Falers repairer
M
Addlllonal help to maMmanoe dept.
Drying and baling
F -CLEYN A TINKER INC. PLANT i2- CONVENTIONAL SPINNING
Abbreviation
Doubling
Roving
Winder
R
Plent janitor
M
Yampeoker
R
Find raft
Packer-Yam handler Maintenance mechanic Twlatlna operator
Oker
Y
Preparation (combined Jobe) Fancy Mating
Etactrlden
B
Truck driver
R
Office Unitor
M
Plant Janitor (weekend)
Machine deaner
N
Spirmino liname operator
r
Additional help to
. N
maintenance dept
PLANTS - CLEYN A TINKER INC. PLANT *4-WEAVlNO
bbreviation
Warper operator	o
Warper beamer lead 0
Warppraparatlon
ML
Walt hauler mn
Weaver
T
Warp hangar (lead)
T	'
Chain maker
i
Reooner operator
0
DrewtatHn machine letting end hameaa handler	ml
Loom fbtar (rapier and projectile)
2	years or more of experience	r
Loom fixer (rapier and projectile)
1	year but leee than 2 yean’ experience
Loom flxor (nptor)
1 y««r but I«m tihtn 2 yttrs' exp*n*nce
60
Loom
fbcor
(proje
otto)
1 yw
Loom
fixwr
(raptor
and
pra)ao
tlto)
Leas
Mr of experience
Loom fixer (raptor)
Lees fhen one <1)y*ar of experience r
Loom fixer (projectile)
Less then one (1)ye#r of experience t
Maintenance mechanic	<*
Otter and combined Jobe	t
Yam handler m
Ptaoe hauler
T
Pattern weaver
MN
Warp hanger-tyer
T
DmwIncMn mebhlne
CHT
Pattern warper (Suzuki)	a»
Janitor
M
Warp tyer and re*warper	«
Warp hancfer-Tyer (pattern)
Plotter (waaving)
T
(drawing-in)	iw.
Sweeper
Yam handler and warper beamer (combined)
Additional help to maintenance dept, u
PLANTS - ClEYN & TINKER INC. PLANT HMU.8URUNQ ANCLMENQlfeKi
Abbreviation
Burling and Mending	«•
Combined Jobe on perch	w
Day mending
w
Pleoe handler w
Rolling machine operator
Additional help to maintenance dept. w
63
Combined Job*
(Samples and Plotter)
PLANTS - CLEYN & TINKER INC.
P-LMJft: D.YEINQ ANP FINISHING
Abbreviation
Shipping
8took room
BMP
64
Floater
n
Maintenance mechanic Stetlorary engineer
M
Pipefitter
«
Apprentice pipefitter
H
Sample room helper
Janitor
M
Piece dyeing operator
Additional help to maintenance dept Paokage dyeing operator Continuous crabbing and washing Permanent deoatlng
Continuous deoatlng and sponging (combined)
Floater-Operator
N
Package dyeing helper (dryer) * Dyee and chemicals drug room
General helper
LMd grey room Y.D.
FH
LMd gray room P.D,
FH
RjH decator/ingoing (oomblned) n -
FH
PART 2 LAY-OFF
15:12 When a lay-off become* naoaaaary on a given Job, an amptoyaa who ftaa not yetbaan aaalgned for a period of twelve (12) cumulative weak* (axoaptfor period* of Hlnaaa or aooldant that ooourrad outalda of tha Company) to a Job ha waa promoted or aaalgnad toby the Company, will be returned to hie prevloua Job. If hla Job la no longer available or that hla aantortty doaan't allow him to return, ha will have
tha poaatblHty of bumping aa per Hem 16:14.
In tha oaae where tha amptoyaa is not qualified on toe job following tha prevloualy mentioned period of aaltgnmanL ha will benefit from the naoaaaary training to become qualified.
16:13 LAY-OFF - TWO (2) DAY8 OR LESS:
In case of lay-off of two (2) working days or leaa tha Company shall have tha right to lay-off amptoyeee without regard of their
The employee sutdaoted to • lay-off has the right to replace another employee vwftti lose seniority on a Job which ho previously fined satisfactorily on hla regular shift in pragraaa at tha time of tha lay-off.
16:14 LAY-OFF OF MORE THAN TWO (2) DAY8:
Whan a layoff of more than turn (2) working days whoa# duration fa foreseen to bo laaa than two (2) waaka baoomaa nooeaeary, tha employees with the laaat plant seniority on tha Job will be the fVvt Wdnaff or demoted. Tha employee supfeoted to a lay-off has tha right to rapiaoe another employee with laaa senlorHy on a Job which ha pmvloualy flted satisfactorily.
An employee who la unable to rapiaoe baaed on tha previous paragraph, will have tha possibility to replace another employee with leas seniority on a Job ha can become qualified within a marimum period of live (S) days and providing that work wNI be avaHabla on this Job following this period.
16:16 When a layoff Is foreseen to axoaed a period of two (2) weeks, or If tha lay-off exceeds two (2) weeks, the employee tald-off will have the possibility of being trained on a Job occupied by an employee with less seniority In that same plant, as long as there la no other Job In the plant to which he oan be transferred wtthout training and that he has oompMed hie probation period at the 6ma of the lay-off.
a) CA8E WHERE THE EMPLOYEE IS ELIGIBLE TO ATWENTY (20) DAY TRAINING AT THE TIME CF THE LAYOFF:
This (torn raters to training on Iota which an employee oan normally qualify himself in • period of tMMHUy (20) and twenty-flue (26) days whichever Is applicable. Whan the employee does not succeed in qualifying hkneelf within the provided period, he beoomas onoe again subjected to being laM-off.
C) EMPLOYEE'S RIGHT TO HI8 REGULAR JOB FOLLOWING A BUMPING:
When an employee Is lefd-off of hla regular Job and bumps an employee wNh leas eenlortty on another Job, In such case the employee will retain hie light to return to hla Job during a period baaed on Mb plant seniority, as apeoliled atarttoie 13:01. Onoe this period la expired the Job on whloh he has bumped beoomas hie regular Job.
d)	The parties agree that In the event of lay^neaffeotlng employees working on the weekend twelve (12) hour shuts aooordlng to the "6/2" schedule as defined at Item 22:00 d), they wM not be obliged to bump on the same Job scheduled,during a normal weak from Monday to FrtdaywWch they oocupied on the "8/2" schedule. The employees will be able to exercise their right to bump according to their seniority In conformity with Mem 16:10.
15:16 When a temporary reduction In production needs ooours requiring laes working hours on a given Job, the choloe to remain «t work or to voluntarily aooept to work leea than forty (40) hours per week wll be offered on a voluntary basis and option can be exsroleed based on seniority.
However, ff the leek of work Iwts three (3) conseoutfv* weeks end If employees concerned wish to work normal forty (40) hour weeks, the Company will then pnooeed to lay-offs In order to offer a normal working week to employees that era not being takt-off.
15:17 When lekt-off, an employee will receive e minimum notloe of forty-eight (43) hours as long as It Is reasonably possible to dose. The employ## subjected to e ley-off wishing to pravWI himself of hla right to bump must make his decision known as soon as possible In order to alow a suitable notice to be given to the employee lekt-off who has lees seniority.
The Company wIN advise In the shortest time possible the employees who have the lese plant seniority of the poseMIKy of them being sutyected to a lay-off. The name* of the employees felf-offfore
period exceeding two (2) working dtys will be peeled.
15:18 RECALLS TO WORK:
e)	Hi a lay-off aituetlon, when work twoomee once again avaflable on a job, the qualified employee with the most plant seniority will be the first one rootled to work. In the case where none of the employees lekt-off are qualified, then they will be eligible following their seniority to receive the training necessary to qualify themselves.
70
However if the mea)l of qualified employee#, due to the dot that work becomes onoe aocln available on • particular Job, to scheduled to lari mom than fight {8) calendar weeks, then the non-qualffled employee on this job but wHh the moet plant serlortty will have the possibility of reoeivfng the necessary training to qualify himself on this job as long ea hfa plant seniority Is of five (6) years or more and that he cen normally qualify Ins period of hwity (20) working days. It Is understood that the employee having leoelvsd tramthg to ouaMy aooordlng to the preceding wll ltd the Job on a temporary basis until work It available on the Job whim he ooouptod at tire time of lay-off,
b) When an employee who las more seniority than others on a Qfvsn Job aoospts a voluntary lay-off beoeusa of a reduction in aotMtlas, he must return to work as soon as his regular Job Is again available. The employee lakkrff must return to work before the Company preweeds to recruit a new employee. When the employs# returns temporarily on another Job:
-	He to nrt considered ae a permanent employee,
-	He Is not entitled to bump,
-	Ha Is agUnlakl*off when the temporary work Is completed.
When an employee returns to work following a Job posting, hs may:
• Aooapt to AH ths posting on spsimanant basis and that Job becomes hit,
(OR)
- AaK to fill the job on a temporary baeto till the actMtits pick up on the oocupatlon he had at the lime of his lay-off.
In tha obm of permanent closure of a Job, K is highly reoommended ttiat the employee subjected to a lay-off Immediately prevails himself of his right to bump aooordfng to his seniority, any employee vriio refuses to prevail himself of this privilege and who opts tor a ley-off, loses Ms right to bump and when recalled to work the lest available job beoomes his regular Job.
o) When an employee is laysd off from hie regular job because of a shortage of work, and than work beoomes ones again available on a Job he oould not bump on at the time of his lay-off. the Company will oftor to the quaffled employee with the most plant seniority and to the one oooupylng another job having prevailed hlmeelf or hie right to bump, to oooupy (Ms Job providing that the employee wlH have Informed the Company of Ns intentions at the tune of Me layoff.
The Job occupied by the employee who was transferred by the Company beoauaa of the previous paragraph, wWbe offered to a qualified employee who wll request It aooonllng to this earns ptooedure.
This prooedure can be applied providing that the Jobs ImpKoetod can be flDed without training.
ARTICLE Ifi
BULLETIN BOARD
16:00 The Company aooepte to allow the Union to use the bulletin boards whloh may be looked, end this, far their usage exclusively. These boards are pwoed In each plant and the Union may poet nodose and announcements regarding Its usual affairs, as long as thasa nodosa are slgnad either by the President of the looal or tty an authorised offtosr of ths Union and that tha Company reoeivse a copy of the notloe or ennaunoement the preceding working day.
ARTICLE 17
BEREAVEMENT PAY
17:00 ELIGIBLE EMPLOYEE:
The Company agraas to grants bereavement pay to tha amployaa who has completed torn* 0) month* of oontlmioua service wfto the Company at the time when tha daath occurs In his family.
Furthermore, It la understood that any employee who haa not completed three (3) months of oontotuoua aarvtoa at tha time of daath of a marnbar of hla family may abasnt hlmaeff from work at such a time, according to dlsposltloni to thin effect at par the "Ld aur laa Normas du travatt*.
17rt)1 ELIGIBLE PERIOD:
a) The reference period for beraavemsnt pay la calculated In oonaacuttoe calendar days which atari following tha death In tha amptoyaa'a family and wHI and at 7:00 am or 6:00 am, whlohavartoappllooMa, on the data following tha funeral.
b) However, exception la made for the reference period In tha oaaa of the daath of •pouee where tha amptoyaa'a motivated atwanoa wM be a maximum of flva (6) working days In tha seven (7) oonaaoudva calendar days which will start following the death whereas In the oaaa of the death of •on, daughter, tha amptoyaa* a motivated abaanoa wID baa maximum of tour (4) working days In tha acven (7) oonaaoutlve calendar days which win atari tallowing tha daath.
17:02 RATE AND HOURS PAID TO WHICH EMPLOYEE IB ELIGIBLE
b) La montant <fatlocatfon auqual rwnployti aura droit ait dgal au nombra dtwuraa prtvuta a *on horalra regular, ta) qua otduM, fob la faux horalra MguNarou la faux horalra moyan cuhrant la cat, k lamps almpla, at oa, pour ohaqua Joumta d’abaanoa qul auratt dtt normalomant une joumta da travail.
17:03 Aflnd'axaroarunoontrOlaaurtet abaanoaa prtvuaa oontormdmantaux dtopoalHona daa Kama 17:04 at 17:08, la Dtoaetfon pourra axlgar una prauva auflTaanta qul aara aujatta a vtrfflcatlon.
17:04 NOMBRE MAXIMUM OE JOURS D'ALLOGATION DEDECE3
a)	Cinq {&) Joura lor* du d4o4a du conjoint da mlma aaxa ou da aaaa oppoai, 4poux et/ou dpouaa an droit oommun.
b)	Quatra (4) Jouta lora du d4o4a du flla,
mm-
o) Traia (3) Joura lora du dftoAa du ptre, mira, Mra(a), aoaur(a), baau-ptra, bsJkwnnira, pire ou m4ra du conjoint da
tan.
II act antandu qua I' employ* pautauaal a' abcentar du travail pendant una (1) autra Joum*a, mala aara aalalra, * r oooaakmdu ddota ou daa ftmtralllaa da aon pin, da aa mdru.d’ unfttraoud' unaaoaur.
d)	D#ux(2)Jour*lor»dud4o*ada baau-Mra, baUa-aoeur, batta-mOre 2a dpouaa, boau^Mra 2a dpoux, Mra ou aoaur du oontuiut da fatt» pfe* ou mOrn du 2a oonfotnt da IWt at patKa-anfturta.
a) The amptoyM concerned la allgfWe to this bereavement peymant provided that each daya of abaanca for raaaona of sympathy would normally hava been a working day for tha ampioyaa ooncamad.
b) Tha amount of pay to which tha ampioyaa la entitled la equal to Hie number of hours aa provided acoordlng to hla tegular dally schedule timed Me hourly tegular or average rate, whichever la applicable, at straight time for eaoh day that would normally hava baan a working day lor the ampioyaa ooncamad.
17:03 In order to control fdraaaan absences aa par provWona at Fteme 17:04 and 17:06, Management may require auffldant proof which will be aufatlacted to verification.
17:04 MAXIMUM NUMBER OF DAYS FOR BEREAVEMENT FAY
a)	Five (6) days at tha time of dead* of same aax or opposite aax apouee or of oommon-law spouse.
b)	Four (4) days at tlio time of death of son(s), daughter^).
c)	Throe (3) days at the time of death of father, mother, brothers), alstarfa), fathar-ln-taw, mothoHn4aw, father or mother of oommon-law apouee.
It Is understood that tha employee may request an absenoe from work for one (1) addftionol day, without pay, at bit time of death orlUneralof Mb father, mother, brother or slater.
d)	Two (2) days at tha time of death of brothaMn-law, slater-ln-law, stsp-mothar, step-father, brother or aletar of oommon-law spouse, father or mother of aaoond
oommon-law apouee and grandohIMran,
74
d)	Intheoaseoflllness.aooidenLor maternity attested by • doctor's oertlfloato, the employee will be eligible ff hit period of absenoe doet not exoeed sixty (60} oonaecutlve oalendtrdays, immediately preceding the holiday.
20:01 HOURLY RATE FOR TIME OFF:
a)	The eligible employee will be paid straight time aooording to hie average hourly rate ae per Hem 0:08.
b)	The employe* on Wal period (ae deeoribod at Hem 9:08 a)) when a atatutory holiday oooura wM be paid straight time aooording to the highest of the tallowing rate whichever Is applicable:
1.	At hie hourly rate preceding the Introduction of the trial period,
2.	His average rate based on his average earnings of the thirteen (13) weeks preoedlng the trial period,
(OR)
3.	Hie average hourly rate baaed on hie average earnings of the thirteen (13) weeks preoedlng the holiday.
20:02 HOUR8 PAID DURING STATUTORY HOLIDAYS TO ELIGIBLE EMPLOYEES:
a) Applicable to employees aoheduled during the period from Monday to Friday:
When a statutory holiday oocura, the eligible employee shall ba paid forth* standard number of hours which he normally works, based on the prsosdlng thirteen (13) weake. When the svarag* of dally hours worked based on thirteen (13) weeks Is leas than eight hours and a half (8 1/2), the eligible employee shall receive eight (8) hours of pay. Whan the average or dally hours worked baaed on thirteen (13) weeks Is eight and a half (81/2) hours or more, the eligible employee shal receive nine (9) hours of pay for the holiday.
b) Applicable to employees scheduled on twelve (12) hour shins during the weekend schedule referred as "8/2":
When a statutory holiday oocura, the eligible employe* will be paid for each statutory holiday an amount equivalent to eight (3) hours at regular rate, straight time.
Statutory and paid holidays ere foreseen to be observed week days, therefore, Saturday* and Sunday* are considered at normal working days for all employees working on the weekend schedule, referred as W.
20:03 Statutory holidays and paid holidays foreeaen for the duration of the odeedve
agreement will be observed and paid following the oalendar eetabllahed for eaoh year of the collective agreement. The Hat of these hoHdaya and statutory holidays Is the
following:
78
D FOta Nationals
O’) Cat a»t*rlqu» tndlqua In Jours Nrito aWon to to) turfes normndu travail.
a) Du 8 maf 2000 au 6 mol 2001, qulnza (16)tttaa atoonoia payto.
Nb.defftnet
Jour ttoaduttte-		
1.	St-Jsan-Baptiat« (obasrvt)	Vdndradl 23-00-00
2.	Gonttdiratlon (obsanrt)	Vandradi 304WH)
3.	Fltadu Travail	Lundl 0440-00
4.	Jour del' Action da Orton	Lundl 08-10-00
0.	ValHsdaNoW (obasrut)	Marcradi 27-12-00
6.	NOW	Lundl 23-124)0
7.	LandamalndaNoW	Mardl 20-124)0
	Christmas	26-12-00
8.	Day baton	Wadntaday
New Year (obeerved) 03-01-01
9.	New Year1 a Day	Monday
01-01-01
10.	Day after	Tuaaday
New Year 1	02-01-01
11.	Qood Friday Friday Friday 13-04-01
12.	Eaalar Monday Monday Monday 16-04-01
13.	Floating hotiday
14.	Floating hotiday
16,	Floating holiday
b) From May 7 2001 to May 6 2002, fifteen (15) statutory & paid holktaya.
Nb. of statutory	Day
ftpaldhaUdaws
1.	St-Jean-Bspdste	Monday
254)6-01
2.	confederation	Monday
(observed)	02-07-01
3.	Labour Day	Monday
03-00-01
4.	Thanksgiving Day Monday
08-104)1
6.	Day before	Monday
Christmas	24-12-01
t ijnnsvvm Tuesday 28-12411
7.
Wednesday
26-1201
6. Day before	Monday
New Year	31-12-01
eo
0.	NawYaarDa/s	Tusaday
01-01*02
10.	Day after	Wadnaaday
NswYaar	02-01-02
11.	Good Friday	Friday
25-03-02
12.	Eaatar Monday Monday Monday
01-04-02
13.	Floating holiday
14.	FkwtinghoJIday
15.	Floating hoHrtay
c)	From May 6 2002 to May 4 2003, IHtean (15) statutory A paid holiday*.
Nb. of statutory iJMMJidtiBi		Day WMMWlI
	1. 8t-Jaan-8aptt»ta	Monday 24-06-02
2.	Confadaration	Monday 01-07-02
3.	Labour Day	Monday 02-00412
4.	Thankigfvfng	Monday
Day	14-10-02
6. Day bafora
bafora	Friday Chdatmaa (obaarvad)
(obaarvad) 27-12-02
6. Chrlatmas Wadnaaday 25-12412
7.	Day after Chriatmaa	Thuraday 26-124)2
8.	Day bafora	Tuasdty
	NtwYaar	31-124)2
9.	NawYaar* a Day	Wadnaaday 01-014)3
61
8
o	p	pt	yt
If	I	If	if
rt	t	if	H	,
u
2
£
eo-oo-ci.
pltdf/Oo|nwf(flt)
s
Kl
»T!N<3 HOLIDAY
la Ml
of«w (tjamptayaeperjob,
USUM1M (•
•J.bJiOlwuld).
UB<M
b) Whan • holiday la obaarved on tha Friday, tha 24 oonaaouffvo hours of tha ofaaarvatkm pariod will atari at 7:00 am or 8:00 am at tha and of tha rigular shift at Friday, and will ba sxtandad for 24 conaacutlva hours. In suoh oaaa aH work parformad from 7:00 am or 8:00 am aooordlng to tha baglnnfng or tha ragular shift on Saturday wi ba on a voluntary
ARTICLES 21
ANNUAL VACATION WITH PAY
21:00 Tha Company's amploytaawaiba antmad to a vacation pariod basad on tha duration of continuous sarvloa aooompHahad Intharaforanoayaar.
VACATION
SENIORITY	PERIOD
a)	Lass than ona(1)	On# day of
yaar	vacation par
month of aarvloo
b)	Ona(1) yaar but	Two (2) weeks
lasa than flva (6)
yaara
e)	Rva (5) yaara but	Thraa(3) weeks
lasa than fourtaan (14) yaara
d)	Fourtaan (14) yaara Four (4) waaks but lasa than twanty-flve (28) yaara
a) Twenty-five (2B) Flva (5) waaks yaara or morn
Applicable from tha fourth (4") yaar of the eol I active aoraanont, from thy 5 2008;
0 ThlrWvo<35) Six (6) week*
yearn or mora
86
21:01 a) For the vaoatlon period, employees wttl be paid following a percentage^) or their grow eamlngi accompHehed in the reference year. The peroerrtege <%) varying awarding to the duration of continuous servioe with the Company,
For Interpretation purposae and for calculation of the percentage (%) of vacation pay, the rsforenos year for the flrat year of the ooHooHve agreement wHI extend from July 11900 to June 30 2000.
b) Applicable to employees absent for reaeone of llnese, accident or maternity only. The employee absent for reasons of Illness, or accident earthed by a doctor's paper for a period of seven (7) consecutive weeks or more during the twelve (12) months prsoecBng June 30th will be paid for a number of houm determined as per hla seniority. The rate used wffl be: The average of the last thirteen (13) weeks worked at Deoember 31st, plui the average of the lest thirteen (13) weeks worked at June 30th, divided by two (2) giving the average hourly rate to be used for eakxriRtfon of Ms wsoetton pay.
However, when the seven (7) conseeutlvea weeks or more mentioned In the above paragraph cover two (2) reference' years •ooordlng to this article 22, then the payment of the concerned number of houre as speoWed in this article, wi be applicable for only one reference year, being the year In which tola same period of seven (7) ooneeouflues weeks or more of absence from work handing.
Applicable for the duration of the oolleotlva agreement, form May 8 2000 to May 2
2004:
Moina d'un Un jour do de	4%	Nil
(1) an vacance par *
aitoo (21>01 «}
(21:01 b)
SENIORITY HOLIDAY	b of
G.B.	Hours *
Lass than On* day of 4*
Nil
(1) par holiday per *
month of sanrioa
1 year but 2 wks. 4%
BO
lass than 3 * 72 years
3	years but 2 wks 5.5%	110
lass than 5 * 99 year*
5 years but 3 wks. 6.5%	130
lass than 10 * 117 para
10 years but 3 wks, ISO
lasa than 14
*	135 pari
14 years but 4 wks.
170
lema than 18
*	153
para
7.5%
8.5%
18 years but 4 wks. 9.5% 190
less than 21 a 171 years
21 years but 4 wks, wks.	10.5%
210
lass than 25 * 189
87
years
25 years but	5	wka.	lit
220
less than 30 * 198 years
30 years and	5	wks.	11,51
230
mote	* 207
Applicahel from the fourth (4*) year of the collective agrement, from May 5 2003 t
35 years and	6 wks, 11.St
230
more	* 207
(♦) "5/2" Schedule
21:02 a) La Iroisttme (3e) eemalrw da vaoanca epidMe ft 21:00 c), la quatrtftma (4a) eemalne da vaoanoa spftcfflee ft 21:00 d) at la dnqulftma (6a) samalne apftollMe ft 21 MO a) aaront aoooidftae ft una data
dfttarmlnfta par entente mutualle antra la salad* ooncamft at la Compegrria.
Thi employee with tha moit plant cantority on an oooupalion ail taka praoadanoa on an employee with laaa plant eentorky on tha aama cooupatlon at to tha choloe of data* for Mb third and/or fourth and/or fifth week of vacation. Tha Company wtll aak the employees oonoamad to make their oholoa of dele* known before April 30th of eaah yaar and tha Company will poet before May 16th tha llat elating tha ohoioes of dalaa.
21:04 Tha duration of oontinuou* aervloa of tha employee with tha Company la calculated ae of June 30th. It fa alao as of that data that tha vacation pay* ail ba calculated baaad on tha groat eamlnge made during tha pravioua twelve (12) monthi.
Tha reference period for the taking of additional weak* of vaoatlon wft extend
from July let of the currant year to June 30th of the following yaar.
21:06 If the employ*# makes arrangamanta with tha employer to work tha third weak of hie vacation and any other aekttfonal week he Is entitled *>• he wiR not ba laktaff untaaa ha la subject by aanlortty.
21:00 A separate cheque will ba handed to the employee leaving for vacation for each week he la entitled to and fltia cheque will be dated In order that It may ba caahed the Thuraday preceding euohweeka of vaoatlon.
a) Normally, the cheques for each weak of vacation he la entitled to will be handed to each employee during the week pneoedlng the doting of piente for annuel veoetton period.
b) However, the employee* who remain eligible to i number of weeks of vacation greater than the number of week* of plant closure, and whose vacation wHI be taken at a later date as per mutual agreement, may may If may so wish have the Company retain the number of corresponding vacation pays, up to the/r departure for vacation.
In order that these vacation pays be retained by die Company, the employee oonoemad will have to Inform his foreman and advise the plant manager.
21:07 Except for oasee of plant oloeure for the annual vsoatlon period, the employes hiving agreed to take his additional weeks of vacation he Is entitled to et a determined date, and who la as of that date, unable to due to sickness, accident or for any other valid reason, must advise the Company before the beginning oftheeeweektof vacation and may postpone hie vaostfon to a later date determined after mutual agreement with the Company.
21:08 An employee, who Is atll oHgfelo to a greater number of weeks of vacation than me number of weeks taken during plant closure as mentioned above, can ask to spRI one (1) of Ns additional weeks of vacation to which ha Is eligible.
The splitting up of such week of vacation wHI be done aa follows: 1
1 The weak of vacation may be only split on the baste of one (1) day** a time during a Lin calendar week.
91
2	Thi employ* oonoamad mutt prasant to his raspootlva toraman Mi demand to apHt tin vacation wsek to which hi (••HoJIX#, All splitting up (tomind must bt prasantad minimum M«inlywtwD(72) hours bitora tha raquastsd day of vaoatlon.
2 Thi oonoamad plant managamant can rafuaa the splitting up raquaat, If thi amployaa raplaosment It not poMlbto or tor anyothar Justified mason datarmtasd by tramagamont Tha amployss oonoamad wM be acMaad by hla toraman of tha dadilon taken ragardinB hit request to that •Itoot, minimum tonystpht (46) hours batota tha oonoamad day of vacation.
4 On tha occasion of tha spitting up requests presentation to the Compart/. thaamptoysawNh moat plant seniority on a Qlvan Job will have priority onanomployMwtthliisptant sonlortty on tho tamo Job.
8	All floating holidays roqunts
according to article 20:04 of the ooBsotlwa agraamant twill hava priority on vaoatlon splitting up rsqusata.
It Is understood that the Company can allow tha splitting up of tha oonoamad week of vacation as long as this do not oauM any prajuctioe or Inoonventenoe to offlolint and aoonomloal malntsnonoa or Ns operations.
ARTICLE 22
HOURS OP WORK AND OVERTIME
a)	La samtlna normals da trwmB aara du lundl i 7 h mi aamadl 7h (ou) lundl 8 h * aamadl 8 h sulvant oslul qul a’appllqua. Cad nftftre aux employ*# oSdul*sdurant fa aamaina du lundl au vandradl.
b)	Capandantlorsqua laa baaolna da production exigent ur mWmum d« 128 haunt* (TopMtlon par aamaina au count da la piriodf da nauf (8) molt d4butant la dauMKma (SMma) lundl da ssptamtons atsatsrmlnantlsSI maldaohaqua anna#, la aamaina normal# da travail aara du hmdl 7 h au aamadl 12 h ou du lundl 8 h au aamadl 13 h aulwnt oalul qul atypNqufc
Cad rMftna aux amptoyit otdutta durant la aamaina du fund au vsndrsd. Dana oat droonatanoaa la CompapnlatanMiB dans la mssuns du poaalbla da odddar las amployia quatHMa aux tftoftaa oonoamtaa •ur una baaa votontakna au ooum da la joum*s du aamadl i oomplar da 7 h ou 8 h am talon la oa a. AdMmi<fun nombra •ufn«anttfaniptoy*avolomalraaaux dtusnaas ttohaa ntottttlntt aux baaolna da production, la Compagnla oddulara atom laa amployts travaMaiil A cat ttohaa salon fhorafra da Jourau oours da la aamaina da nMtranot.
c)	81 laa baaolna da production ntosssltant osnt aobtanMiutt <188) hauraa par aamaina tf opiratlon, oad sa fare salon I’ application dal’ horalrs cdtU/r. Salon laa baaolna, laa horalraa da travail aarant dtablla par asalgnatlon da madilna, par daaaHloatlon, parsaottond' ataUar, par ateHaroupourr anaambtadal' uslna.
22:00 ft Is agreed that operations vtfthln each ptant era to iw scheduled according to tha production requirements. On a weekly bails and undar normal conditions, tha Company can sohaduia tha operations to fulfill production raqulramanta In tha following maimer:
a) ThanormalworkwsskwNIbafrom Monday 7:00 am to Saturday 7:00 am (or) Monday 8:00 am to Saturday 8:00 am whichever Is appfloable. Thl» refers to emptoyaaa aohaduled during tha weak from Monday to Friday.
b) However when production needs require a minimum oT 128 hours of operation per weak for a period of nine (9) months starting tha second (2nd) Monday In September and finishing on May 31et of each year, toe norma) work weak will start on Monday at 7:00 am to Saturday at noon (12:00 am) or on Monday at 8:00 am to Saturday 1:00 pm whichever appHei.
Tide refers to employees scheduled during the week from Monday to Friday. Under these cfrcumitanoaa tha Company wW attempt 8 posable to sohaduia tha employees qualified on the oonoemed jobs on a voluntary basis on Saturday as of 7:00 am to 8:00 am whichever applies. For lack of a sufficient number of voluntary emptoyaaa to the various Jobs nacasaary for production needs, tha Company wHI than schedule the employees working on theee jobs as per the day shift during the week of reference.
o) If production requirements oak for one hundred and sixty»elght (168) hours per week of operation, this will be achieved with the application of tha sohaduia referred as "8/2", Depending on needs,
work sohedulee.wH be eat up by machine
tttk al***|S*Alt*M Sees
KfVignrTWrTif JOD OMVIVIOINni 0y
dspert-ment seotlon, by department or by (riant.
d)	DEFINITION OF SCHEDULE REFERRED AS W:
Whan production requirements alter two (2) wMktnd days to bo scheduled by one (1) or two (2)sMftsoftwelw (12) hours which the beginning *4J coincide with the •nd of regular waak shifts, such as:
Day 7:00 am to 7:00 pm shift:	or
6:00 am to 8:00 pm
Night	7:00 pm to 7:00 am
shift	or
8:00 pm to 6:00 am
a)	REDUCTION OP
PRODUCTION CAPACITY NEEDS
8lnoa the Introduction of twstvs (12) hour weekend shifts Is to moot greater naads of production, R Is also agraad that whan tha naads of production capaotty ars raduosd, such ahJRswff be the first ones Intarruptod' Tha amploysss subject to bafng taW-off will have the right, according to toair quallfloatlons and seniority, to prevail themselves of ths provisions In tha oollactfvft agwamant to teetaflaot, aRhsr to return to tha flva (5) day achadula or to ba taki-off, whlchavor Is applloaUe.
22:01 Ovartlma on dally and waekly baste will ba on a voluntary baste with tha exception of article 22:00 b) whan production requirements call for a minimum of 128 hours par waak of operation.
22:02 Tha normal working hours par day and par waak tor tha ovartlma calculation are of alght(6) hour* par day and forty (40) hours per week aaoept tor toe ”8/2* achadula whara normal hours par day are
of waive (12) hours and twsnty-four (24) hours per weekend.
dsy of si sroplQyM fof
22:06 For the employee eligible to receive payment for: Houre not worked or worked for the observance of a statutory holiday according to erttote 20, end eleo for houre paid and not worked due to absence for reeeon of bereavement In Me family aaoorrilng to article 17, these hour* not worked or worked ehalf be calculated a» worked for oeloulatlon of weekly total hours,
22:06 e) Ml houre worked during the weekend starting at 7:00 am or 6:00 am aooottHng to the end of the regular shift on Saturday until 7:00 am or 6:00 am acnordlng to the regular shift on Monday wil be paid at the rata of time and one half (100%) of regular hourly rate or average whichever is appdoable.
The provisions oMhle Hern do not apply In the cate of regular hours worked during the weekend according to the "6/2" schedule.
b)	All work performed on the shift starting at 11:00 pm or midnight Monday at tha end of • statutory holiday shell be oonsldered as the shift starting at 11:00 pm or midnight Sunday and shall be paid at the rata of time and one half (160%) of the regular rate or average rate whichever la applicable. "SHIR'" meant the eight (6) hour period of rime between 11:00 pm and 7:00 am or midnight and 8:00 am whichever Is applicable.
The provWons of this Item do not apply In the oast of regular bourn worked during the weekend according to the *6/2* schedule.
c)	When production requirements or weather (renditions necessitate the fonetlohnlng of the boilers during seven (7) days per week of operation, boiler operator employees will be scheduled on
06
four (4) rotating ahifts and wHI receive the overtime and shift pramlum at provided in tha present agreement
22X7 Any work performad on a statutory Holiday shaR ba rsmunaratad at (150%) the hourly or average rata whfohavtr apptiaa, over artoabow remuneration for the paid holiday.
Tha provisions of this Hem do not apply In the oaae of regular houra worked during the weekend aooordfng to the ”8/2" schedule.
22:08 Tha employee wW not reoatve overtime twtoe ftK Houra worked in any one day or In any one weak. Overtime payment wtil be made only for houra that have been worked ebove regular working hour* par day or per week, except for provlalon mentioned at Item 22:05.
Furthermore, whan the houra worked In overtime during the ”5/2* eohedute ore payable at time end a half (150%), the weekend premium threaten at item 23:04 a) 1 or 2. whfoheuer appdee, wHI not be payable tor these same hours.
22:00 The dally or weekly hours of work mentioned In this article, are for computation of overtime hours only and must not be Interpreted as being guaranteed.
22:10 a) If the Company decides to modify the work schedule on a permanent basis on a given Job, and this as compared to the one In torse on the conoemed Job, the Union wHI then be advised In writing before the change is Introduced. '
winUntb*
6. If tha ampJoyata rafuaa, ovarttma wlH then be aftorad by ordar of seniority «■ per procedure provided at 22:11 a) 2,3, and 4 but without any regard to the work shift of employees concerned.
b) Whan ovarttma la fbreaaen and naoaaaaiy far more than ona (1) ahlfl dua to tha aama absence which extend* ttaatf In conasouttva day* In a given waak, tha provlakma provided at aiflola 22:11 a) wNI apply for tha tint day, altar whtoh, tha overtime attribution procedure for tha subsequent days will ba tha fOikMrino:
1.	Overtime wi be offered by order of seniority (equalled amployaaa oooupylM tha Job, without regard to tha wort* iWft of amployaaa oonoamad.
2.	If tha amployaaa refuse, ovarttma will then be offered by order of •enlortty to the othar quaMlad amployaaa working m tha aama department, without regard to tha work shift of employees oonoamad.
3.	If fhoaa amployaaa rafuaa. ovarttma wil be offered by ordar of seniority to tha othar quaMlad amployaaa of tha plant, without regard to tha work shift of employeea oonoamad.
c) PMrifnqofQWlfmi;
Whan ovarttma li neoeaaary for a oomptota work ahlft, the flrat four (4) hour* wW ba offarad aa par order of distribution provided at 22:11 a) orb) whichever la applicable, whereae the second four (4)
home wWbaoffarad to amployaaa of tha shift foimring the one on which there Is ovarttma to ba dona wtie raapaotlm tha ordar of dlatrlbutlon provided at 22:11 a) or b). whichever la appNoabie.
However, the provWons of the previous paragraph do not apply whan overtime li naoaMary on Iha shift (starred as W.
d)	Whan an employ* la temporarily transferred on ajob other than hla own ae per provisions at article 11 for a period of one (1) weak or leae and that during this period overtime Is necessary on the job normally occupied by tha employee, ho wfl than be entitled to tha said overtime as par provisions of tha present artlole.
Furthermore, If the period of the employee's temporary transfer exceeds one (1) week and that overtime Is neoeeaary on the Job he la temporarily occupying, ha wW then be eligible to the said overtime aa per provisions of the present ardda.
It la agreed that the overtime will be offered aooordfng to one or the other previous efroumstanoss, whichever eppllee.
•) If an employee bellevea that overtime was not offered to him ae per the order of dletributJon provided In the preeent article, ha will nowy hla foreman and If ha judgae It to be justified, the Company wIR then take appropriate measure! In order to offer within thirty (30) calendar days another overtime opportunity to the oonoamed empwyee.
However, It Is understood that this opportunity wW not as a consequence HmH the overtime opportunity that another employee could have otherwise obtsined.
11
f)	OVERTIME 0N8CHEDULE REFERRED AS *«2"
For tha pwpoaa of tha present Ham 22:11, it Is agreed tfiat the procedure for the attribution and tha sharing of overtime for tho schedule referred as "8/2* will b# tha following:
Saturday ahlfla;
1,	Tha flrat four (4) hour* wll be offered aa par provlalara at 22:11 a) 1., 2., 3., 4., 6, and 22:11 c) to tha employees of the shift before the one where there to overtime to badona.
2.	Tha saoond four (4) hours will ba offered aa per provtolane at 22:11 b)1„2„ 3« regardless of tha shift of employees concerned.
3.	Tha last four (4) hours wW be offered as per provisions at 22:11 a) 1., 2., 3.. 4., 6. and 22:11 o) to amployaas of tha shift that follows tha ona where than is overtime to ba dona.
Sunday ahlfta:
1.	Tha first four (4) hours wll ba offered as par pravtotons at 22:11 a) 1., 2., 3., 4., 5. and 22:11 o) to tha amployaas of tha shift before tha ona wham there Is ovartlma to badona.
2.	Tha saoond four (4) hours wM ba offarad as par provisions at 22:11 b) t, 2., 3., regard lass of tho shift of amptayeas oonoamad.
101
3.	The last four (4) hours wll ba offer**) as per provisions at 22:11 a) 1., 2., 3„ 4., 5. and 22:11 o) to employees of the shift that Totlowa thoone where there Is overtime b be done.
In the event that the Company can not Itnd voluntary employees to work overtime as per the procedure described previously, It wtt then offer to do the work oonoemed by portions of six (9) hour* In the following manner;
-firstly to employees who occupy the Job where there Is overtime to be done but regardless of the shift of employees
ssiiesiMuul
OQnQVnVNf
• seoondty to qualified employees working In the same department but regarcHeseofthe shift of employees concerned,
-tasty to qualified employees of the plant but ragardiaee of the shift of employees concerned.
2212 WORK IN OVERTIME ON THE OCCASION OF STATUTORY HOLIDAYS
When production needs require the functioning of various plant jobs during statutory holidays days, the Company will offer, to votuntsar employees who confirmed their Intention to work during the concerned holiday, such work to ba acoompHshad by them in overtime on eight (0) hours basis, as the following manner;
10t
a) 1. Overtime will b« offered by order of seniority to qualified employees oooupylng and scheduled on the oonosmed job during the reference week in which l> such statutory holiday, and who wish to work during the holiday day, without regard to the work shift of employeee concerned.
2. The Company will schedule these employees by order of seniortty to various avaiMXe assignments of the oonosmed jobs aooordlng today shift feet, then evening shift and night shift, aooordlng to the oaee.
ParMajIartttoa:
- Dispositions of article 22:11 d) ere taken Into consideration for the application of the preeent article.
« When the reference week mentioned above la made of five (8) oonaecuthiee statutory and paid hoHdeys. then such week MR be the weak Immediately praoedlng tha concerned statutory and paid hodcfeysweek.
b) 1. m the ossa where the number of volunteer employees aooordlng to paragraph •) above Is fneufflclent to fi the planned assignments, overtime wW then be offered by order or seniortty to qualified employees working In the same department, without regard to the work shift of employeee oonosmed.
2. The Company will schedule these employees by order of seniortty to various available assignments of tha concerned Jobs aooordlng to day shift first, than evening shift end night shift, aooordlng to tha case.
109
o) 1. In the cam where the number of volunteer employees aooordlng to paragraph b) above la Inaufllolant to fll me planned ■alignment!, overtime wll then be oltomd by orctor of seniority to nullified employee* working In the plant, wfthout regard to the work shift of amptoyaaa oonoamad.
Z The Company will coheduto these amptoyaaa by order of sanlortty to varioua avaHabto aeelgflment! of the oonoamad Jobs aooordlng to day ahlft flrrt, than svanlng shift and night shift, aooordlng to the oaaa,
It to undamtood that after tha eataWtohment of the working aohadula by tha Company tor tha oonoamad atatutory holiday, which to *evan (7) calendar days preoadlng tha holiday If It la a Friday or four (4) calendar ddyi preoadlng the holiday if It to a Monday, it happarw that one or few amptoyaaa oonflrm their withdrawal to work to overtime ae spaoHlad on tha aohadula and thto, tor any raaaon, then the Company will not modify tha aohadula already eatabltohed.
The Oompany ooutd altar, If Hie judged naoaasary, fill tha available aaalgnmento bated on tha volunlaar qualified emptoyeee Hat, up til that time oonaldarad In eurplu*. and thto by order of aanlority.
On tha other hand, ohangae of work ahlft between emptayaa* wn not be authorized In tha framework of tha present oiauae apptoatlon.
22:13 DEPARTMENTS
Dapartmanta of each plant for tha purpose of article 22 application are as foHcws:
Banin 1 r Tpadvrina
Abbreviation
Preparation, combing and flntahNig ppf Dyeing	T
Shipping	kxp
Malntanance	m
Burn 2 ■ CmwanttMHl. ipinnina
Abbreviation
Spinning	F
Twtatlng	R
Maintenance	m
Electrical deportment	fi
Plant n 4 - Weaving
Werehouee
Warping
Drawing-in
Sample#
Weaving
Malntananoa
Abbreviation
BNT
0
BNL
ICH
T
M
Plant n fi-Burling and mending Abbreviation Burling and mendlngRP
Bum o-pytna and Mina
Abbreviation
Wet finishing	fh
Dryflnfehlng	PS
Shipping	BXP
Maintenance	M
22.14 OTHER WORK SITUATION SITUATIONS IN
OVERTIME
iOUlliS IUQM
“ WIt* IiTUI“
mm
2, The Company wM schedule these employees by order of seniority fo vartoua available assignments of tho oonoamad Jobe aooordtog b day ahlft diet, than evening ohlfl and night shift, aooonHng b tho oaaa.
o) 1. In the case where the number of volunteer employees aooordlng b paragraph b) above d Inaufflolant to fill the planned assignments, overtime wM than be offered by order of aanlorlty b quaMed employees working of the plant, without regard b the work ahlff of amployaaa oonoamad.
2, The Company wll schedule theee amployaaa by order of aantorttyb vartoua available aaatgnmanta of the oonoamad Joba aooortftig b day ahlfl first, then evening shift and night shift, aooordlng b the oaaa.
ARTICLE 23
PREMIUMS
23:00 SHIFT PREMIUM
Shift premiuma are not paid ter hour* worked on Joba regularly scheduled an day ahHL However the following shift premiuma win be paid over and above the,regular rate of pay:
a) Twenty (20) oorrti par hour for hours worked on a job regularly acheduled on the ahlft of:
3:00 pm b1 IKK) pm or
4:00 pm b midnight
b)	Thirty-five (35) oents per hour for
hours worked on a Job regularly scheduled on the shift of:
11:00 pm to 7:00 am or
Midnight to 8:00 am
c)	TWenty-flve (28) oanta per hour far hours worked on • job regularly scheduled on evening shift and which exceed midnight aa wall as the Me (12) hour weekend night shifts.
23:01 Premium for eleotrlolans
The elsctrtdan who owns an automobile and who must make ins of It to go from one plant to another during his regular working hours, wM raoetve a premium of twenty (20) oants par hour over and above his hourly rate.
23:02 Spedal premium
An employee wil reoaive a apeoial premium whan designated by the Company far his competency to assume a greater responsibility. This premium wi be granted over and above the hourly rata or average hourly rets whichever applies. This premium Is granted aooordfng to the tallowing level of responstolltlei:
a)	Seventy (70) cents per hour when an employee replaces a foreman. HewIRbe called group leader. If the duration of the replaoement Is expected to axoaed two (2) days, the name of the group leader wM be posted as of the first day,
b)	Thirty (30) oants par hour whan an employee trains or retrains a group of emptoyeee,
e)	Thirty (30) oants par hour whan an employee trains or re-lrslne another employee. This applies for each candidate to be trained.
23:03 RECOGNITION BONUS
A recognition bonus for years of service with the Company atoll be distributed each year at Cbrietmae to employees who ere at thaCorripan/BMrvioe on that data. Tha amount of this bonus wtwll bo based on tho numbar of years of continuous servloe with the Company. Hie years of servloe shall be oalailated as of June 30th.
The number of dollars per year of continuous service applicable to each year of tha ooNecilue eg reament la as follows:
1.	Applicable during the first (1Bt) year of tha collective agreement: 0,609.
2.	AppHoable during the second (2nd) year of tha oolledive agresment; 9,79$.
3.	AppffoaM* during the third (3rd) year of the ooSeottve agreement 10,00$.
4.	Applicable during tha fourth (4th) year of the ooUaotfw* agreement: 10,29$.
29:04 WEEKEND PREMIUM
a) A weekend premium of 3,00 $ wll be paid for each regular hour worked on a Job scheduled on toe weekend twelve <12) hour shifts according to the "8/2" schedule.
me renewi or me mmww aoseam—t
wfitoh.MPlriti on.Miy 919H, 1
1. After tha date of signature, the smployeee who will be promoted or assigned to a given Job on toe "0/2" schedule win be eligible to a weekend premium of 3,00 $ payable for each regular hour worked on one of these Jobe,
2. Only employe* who (Main at the date of signature a Job on Bis "8/2" schedule, as a resuK of promotion In conformity with the posting prooadure foreman at 18:02 and 15:03, are sUglbls to a waakand premium of 7,00 $ par hour worked.
Howsv* r, fftha amployaa conoemad apomc for and Is promoted to anothar Job, ha wNI not ba atlglblo to this waakand premium.
b) The employees in tha Company1 s employment at the date of signature of the ooHaodva agreement which expired on Rtoy 8 1096 wH be eligible to the weekend premium of 7,001 per hour worked In (he event that the only job where they can bump le on the "5/2” schedule ae a result of a lay-off an a Job during tha weak and that K is oooupled by an employee with less plant seniority.
At the dma of the signature tor the renewal of the collective agreement which expired on May 0 1990, any employee affected by the oreatkm of provisions at Hem 23:04 a) 2. will be eligible to prevail himself of provisions at Hem 27:02 a) orb) whichever applies, as long as the employee oonoemed li Indeed scheduled acoorcUng to the "8/2" schedule, it Is also agreed that such a deloislon on the employee1 s pert will end Ms cllglbliny to the premium foreseen at Item 23:04 a) 2.
o) ki the event that an employee whose Job Is on the *6/2f eohedule and who akeandy receives tha weekend premium bumpe on another Job oocupled by an employee with leaa plant seniority end who la already working on this tame schedule then he wM
continue to receive the premium to which he Is eligible In oonfomnlty with Item 23:04 e) 1 or 2 whichever la sppHosble,
d)	The employee aftose Job le on the W schedule at the date of signature of the coflscthw agreement which expired on May 5 1 Mfl and who Is eHgUHe to the weekend premium of 7,00$ for each regular hour worked, will oonttiue to reoafve the said premium If he Is promoted to another job on the *0/2* sohedule in oonformity with the posting procedure at erodes 15:02 and 18:03.
However, If the oonoemed employee appllas and Is promoted to another Job uMch is scheduled on a 5 day and 40 hour week after the above mentioned date of signature, he wHI no longer be eligible to reoelve.thle waeRsnd premium even If ho Is eventually promoted again on a "5/2" schedule Job.
article at WAQE8
24:00 The Company agrees to pay and the Union agrees to aooept for the length of this ooNeotlve agreement that hourly rale and base rate applicable to the bonus system (standard minute) foreaaen at appendix "1" which is made part ofthle agreement and signed for ktantiftcatlon by the partita hereto, Any change of any one of these rates shall conform to this present collective agreement
24:01 a) Whan tha new Job la being Greeted permanently In the bargaining unit the rata wiR be determined within a delay not exotedlngebr (6) months. Ths hourly rote of this Job aha! be determined by using the method of Revaluation. The oomnAtee proceeding to the Job evaluation will be formed by abc <Q) members, three (3) of them win be the Company's
representatives and the thraa (3) others wIN be the Union repraaentativea. The hourly rata than established becomes the ragufo rate ofthlsnewjob and will then be subject to the posting prooadurt acoordlng to Kama 16:01 and 16:02.
b) When the Company will have decided to proceed with a modfflostlon regarding daasffioatlon of Jobs or their rates whtoh appear at appendix "1" of the present oollectfve sgreement, the rapraaantitfm of the Company will advise, before the said modification, the Union Vice-President of the plant concerned as well as the employee or employees affected by the change.
24:02 The general contractual Increases Included In the raise at appendix T and agreed to by the Company are as fdllowe:
a) To regular hourly paid employees:
Effective 03/08/00,........ 0,40	cents
Effective 07/06/01----------0,37	cents
Effective 06/06/02......... 0,37	cents
Effective 08/05/03......... 0,37	cents
b) To employees peklaooordlng to the bonus system with base rate; Conslderlngthstths bonus system (standard minute) offers an earning opportunity equal to 129% of the baas rates and to maintain an equitable proportion between these two (2) methods of payment, base rates shall be Increased as follows:
Effectfvtt mm................0,320 cents
Effective 07/06/01.................0,286	cents
Effective 06/06/02.................0,286	cents
Effective mm.................0,286 cents
c)l The amount of generel Increaeefbr the 3rd year of the oofleotlve agreement, effective May 6 2002 represents a guaranteed minimum.
If the Increase of the ooneumer price Index obtained In June 2002 for the twelve (12) month reference period ending In May 2002 exceeds three percent (3.0%), an additional salary Increase vril be calculated and paid as per the method provided In the letter of agreement to this eftect.
2. The amount of genaral Increase for the 4th year of the eolectiue agreement, effective May 6 2003 repraeents a
guaranteed minimum.
If the Increase of the consumer price Index obtained tn June 2003for the twelve (12) month reference period ending in May 2003 exceeds three percent (3.0%), an additional salary Increase vrill be calculated and paid as per the method provided In the letter of agreement to this affect.
24:03 In addition the Company and tbs Union have agreed to increase a numbsr of ratea on certain Jobe. The amount of increase and the Jobs that have received those increases are at appendix "2”.
24:04 SALARY PAID TO AN EMPLOYEE SELECTED AS JURY CANDIDATE OR JURY
113
A regular employee hiving completed hit probation period, who It ohoaen to earve it a Jury candidate or Jury, aid rtcalvt If ellglbto, (hi difference between hit regular dt(fy*tmlngtbatt<fonhlinwmtlvwrt(lnfl houre at an employee, and Mi daKy Indemnity at jury oandklate or jury,
provided Hurt how* served at Jury am part of hit regular working hour* and ha oonformad hftnaalf to tha following oondMens;
a)	That ha retuma to work at toon at possible aaoh Urns ha It relaaaad from tha Court.
b)	He muetpnreent to the Company written avWtnot apaohylng dates and houre during whloh ha hat aarvad ta Jury candidate or Jury at wad aa the amount of Indemnity he hat reoatoad or wIN receive from the Court.
Title article (a not appRoaMe If an employee makea the requaat himself to terva as Jury candidate or jury.
244)6 RETROACTIVITY
All amptoyaaa employed with tha Company having completed thirteen (13) weeks of centlnuoua tervloa at tha data of algnatura of tha flolaeHva agreement wM be antWad to retroactivity at of May 8 2000. Retroactivity appilet on general tncreaeea, calculated on the batia of houre worked and the houre worked In overtime. All other Kama of toe new oolleotfve agreement beoome affective on tha dale of signature.
ARTICLE 28 BEGINNERS RATE8
28.00 When the Compeny hire* a new employee, the minimum hourly rate paid will be tan (10) cents higher than minimum hourly aalaiy aat by tha law "Lol aur las normeedu travail".
284)1 Thle rete paid to beginner* la applicable during a period of stefy (80) working dayi unlaia they achieve proflolanoy In ttirefr Job before that time.
ARTICLE M
INSURANCE BENEFIT8
LIFE	ACCIDENTAL DEATH
WEEKLY
CLASSIFICATION INSURANCE	AND DISMEMBERMENT INCOME
BENEFIT
1. Single 10 000 $	L0 000 $
normal weakly employees subject to a
maximum insurable' a. Married employees IS 000 $ earnings as from time to
provided in the
Inn. Act.
3. Dependents i
-	spouse	10 000 $	_
-	children	5 000 $	«
66 2/3 t of
salary
15 000 $
time
unemployment
1971.
EMPLOYEES AMD DEPENDENTS
Daily hospital benefits! Payment of semi-privata accommodation. No limit of days.
Extended health benefits! No deductile - 80V reimbursement.
The Company will apply the 3/12 ahare of the reduction of the employment insurance premium aacording to the term* of the "agreement Letter* to that affect, and ita contribution for the four (4) years of the collective agreement will b#>
-	Male or female employees without
dependents................................... 40,90$ / month
-	Male of female employees with
dependents......................................... 63,30$ /
month
NOTE i The future Inaraaies in the cost of premiums for benefits mentioned above will be paid 50V by the employee and 50V by the Company.
ARTICLE 27
TECHNICAL CHANGES
Compsgnle at Is Vtos*Prteldsnt syndioel ds Cuslne oonoemte se riunlront sf|n ds dlscutsrds Nmportanos des ohsngemsnts envlsagte etdeleur Impact eur lee travs Bents,
27:00 When the Company has decided of a technical change, it win notify the Union ae soon at poeeible after thie decision. The Company repraeantatlvee and the Union Vloe-Piaefdent of the plant ooncemed will meet m order to dHouee the Importance of the changee contemplated and their Impact on the employeee. ’
27:01 For the purpoee of the preeent article "technical changee" meana the automation, or renovation ofeadatfno maoMneiy or repfaoement of existing machinery, the whole creating a permanent reduction In the number or employeee an a given job or leading to the permanent elimination of one or many Jobe. Also, te conaiderad at "technical change" the doting of a department In a permanent manner In any given plant and the combination of many wasting joba leading to the emotion of a new permanent Job.
27:02 If for the taaaone mentioned at 27:01 there results that one or many employeas are subjected to a permanent layoff due to such e technical change, the following provision! will apply:
a) The employee with five (6) years or more of seniority subjected to a layoff resulting from ■ permanent doting of ajob wM hive the ohdoe to be transferred on a parmenent bselstoanothsrjoboocupledbyan employee with laaa seniority or to reoalva • training aooordlng to the posting prooedura it 10:02 and 18:03.
117
b) The amptoyaa with laaa then fiva (6) yaar#' Mntority autyeoted to a lay-off reacting from tha parmanant doting of a job wHt ba framtarrad to anothar Job ocouplad by an amptoyaa with fan. aanlorHy on whftto ha la already quailed and ha* already fliad eatlefactorily. If he la not qualified on any Job, ha wM than batrarwAmnad permanently to anothar Job of hi* ohoioa prodded it la ocouplad by an employee with law aanlority and ha will ba eligible to raoalve If nooaaaary a maximum training offlfteen (15)daya on tola new occupation,
o) Tha amptoyaa bumped permanently from hla Job, aa a nautt of tha aNmdaa of tha ohoioa to ba tranatonrad on another Job by the employee eupjactad to a lay-off ae per prwfaiona daaoribad at 27:02 a) and b), vrt* ba permanently tranefcned to anolhar Job oooupled by an employee with laaa aanlority on which he la alrairiy qualified and haa airaady filed eatMaotorily.
However, tha amptoyaa thua bumped wtto . five (8) year* and moreofeentorttywlll have tha ohoioa to raoalvt a training aooortflng to tha poetlng prooedura at 16:02 end 18:03 on another |ob oooupled by an employee with laaa aaniority, wheraaa toe amptoyaa bumped wlto laaa than five (5) yaara' aanlority, and who la not quailed on any other Job, wll then be tranefenad to another Job of hie ohoioa providad It to oooupiad by an employe# with law aentorlty and will ba eligible to receive, tfnaoaaaary, a
maximum training of flftoan (16) daya on tola new occupation.
27:03 b) When a permanent reduction In tire number of employees becomes neoessMy on e Job due to e technical change, and that only a oertaln number of employees oooupying this same Job are subjected to a penrtenent ley-off, the ohoioe to remain on this job or, whichever l« appNoaMe, to be permarwfrify transferred ae per provMone described at 27:02 a) and b) will be made by order of seniority among the employees concerned, and thle, up to the number of employees required tor the said occupation.
b) Furthermore, the employee or employees oonosmed who are not subjected to a permanent lay-off will have toe oholoe, during a minimum period of torse (3) months and a maximum period of ebc (0) months alter toe end of toe appropriate trial period, not to aooompllsh toe Job aooordlng to the new conditions, therefore he or they wM be transferred permanently by order of seniority to another Job as per provisions at artlole 27:02 a) and b}. However, suoh permanent transfer may be done only after toe Company hat tied, following the posting procedure, the vacancy rewriting from toe decision to transfer the employee(s) oonosmed.
o) If after toe trial period, an employee Is considered ee not being able to aooomptleh the new Job, he mey then prevail himself of provisions at artlole 27:02 a) and b).
However If the employee oonosmed hat been unable to qualify himself following appnoatlon of toe previous attkrie’s dlepoeltlona, he may then prevail himself of
a eeoond training pariod of fifteen (10) days on anotoar Job occupied by an employaa
with lees eenionty. It is understood that this refers to training on jobs an employee oen
NmMlfontn*
27:04 a) Tha amployaat lald-off wtth four (4) yaara or mora of aanfority for r*aaons foSowina provltlont provWad at Karri 27:02 a) and b) wHI ba aRglMa to raoalva a aapantton aHowanoa aa par lhair aga and •anlortty at tpaoiflad at 27:04 b) (tabta). An amployaa of Wl/flva {50) yaara of aga
or mom la not otottgad to aooapt a job on wNoh ha la alraaty qualllad or to ba ratnMvwd on anothar job ha hawa (ha
ohotoatooptforaaaparattonallowanoalfhe aodaalraa. Klaundarataodthatany amployaa who raoalvaa a aapanrtfon aliowanoa wfll loaa hla aanlodty and hit amptoymant will ba tannlnatad wrfth the Company. Thamethodaofpaymantofthla artlda are ntgobabla wtth the Union at tha flmaafltsappRoatlon*
27:04 M
ARTICLE 28 HEALTH AND SAFETY
SSI	f^ODtUe
^ ind •ow,w
•"•V °»* 'Mortem during working houra.
amptoyaaautrtval!.
willtwkapt
b«* to his horn®.
28:06 a) In the caee where an employee Ir^uiee Mmeelf during Me regular shift and mutt bt ebeent to receive mtdloal treatment*, ht will riot lot# any eatery tor tha duration of hit ahHI provided ha ratumt to work after the treatment, before the end of hfs ragular ahift. If the employee la kept at tha hoopftsf or IT ho la returned homa by tha doctor, on hla rstum to work ha mutt praatnttohlaferwmana
madlcal certificate algnad by tha doctor, confirming hla raoommandaHon and specifying tha data and flma at which tha employee has left the hospital or hla office.
b) In tha oaae where an employee hot ratumad to work Mowing an aoddent at the plant and still muat continue to racalva madioal traatmanta aooordlng to tha dootort raoommandabona, whan possible, ha muat try to eohadula hit appointments to reoelve traatmanta outahla Na regular working hours,
In tha oaaa whara the doctor'* madioal traatmanta oan not bo aohadulad out* Ida tha employee's normal working houm, ha oan than pravall Nmaetf of dispositions provided by the workmen's oompanaatlon act.
ARTICLE M
DURATION AND RENEWAL
2*00 Thla agreement will be In force tor a period of foresight (4B) montha extending to May 2 2004,
29:01 Negotiations to amend thla agreement wfl begin at least thirty (30) days before Ha expiration and tha agreement will remain In force until negotiation* are completed and tha now collective agreement algnad.
ARTICLE,80
CORRESPONDENCE
30:00 llnleee other*!** foreseen, the official exchange* in the fbrm of correspondence between Company management and the Union will be addreaeed by mall ae fbNowe:
TO THE COMPANY;
The Human Resource* Manager Cteyn a Tinker Inc,
4,	Lome Street Huntingdon (Quebec)
J0S1H0
IQ. THE UNION;
Member* of the union executive oommtttee U.F.C.W.-Local 137T c/oCteyn ATinker Ina 4Lome8treet Huntingdon (Quebec)
J081H0
COPY TQ MONTREAL QEElfifclft
International Agent U.F.C.W. - Local 137T 850,32th Avenue, Suite 300 LscNne (Quebae) H8T 300
30:01 All communteaMom exchanged under thte ooNeotlve agreement add be oonsMared ae sent fay one of the parliee and reoelvsd by the other three (8) working day* following Me pooling date.
ARTICLE 31,
GENERAL INFORMATION
LOISUR LBS NORME8 DU TRAVAIL
Information prepared by the "Commission doe Norm** du tnwMF In the term of pamphlet* oonoaming varioue cHepoeltlone of the "Ld eur lee nonnea du travail" will be available for the employee* by the bulletin boards ae well ae the secretary's oflloe In each of the plants and the Company's Personnel department
All updates of these pamphlets by the "Commission dee Normal du travail" will be at tho employees' disposal In the aiaas previously mentioned when available.
APPENDIX TO THE COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT MAY 2000
APPENDIX 3
This appendix le part of the eofleodve agreement between the U.F.C.W. - Loosl 137T end Cfeyn A Tinker Inc.
The Company and the Union agree to the following meaning of the word "QUALIFIED* written at Hem 16:08 b):
a)	For hourly paid Jobe (he Company's judgement to determine when an employee is qualified wM be based on the performance expeotad from an employee's normal ablity, who has raoelved e reasonable training for the |ob he has been promoted to.
b)	For jobs paid on Incentive system (standard minute), an employee wfll be judged qualified when hie average performance wWexoeed (105%) for a ful normal week.
However, the above mentioned Is considered as a minimum parformanoa required to fulfill tha Job fblowlng a reasonable approbation parted and cannot be considered at normal performance for an axpadanoed worker. Furthermore, any employee having completed six (6) months on the job to wMoh he has been promoted shall have an average parformanoa •xoeedlng 115%, otherwise, tha Company win have tha right to return tha employee on his previous Job. HcMiever, the Company must give a job load and an earning opportunity slowing the employee
to obtain an average performance greater than 116%.
c)	For the "measured hourly job", an employee will bejudgsd qudfled If ha Is capable of carrying out, oonllnuouely and to the Company' * sedstoodon, a job load equivalent to one hundred percent (100%), tolling to do ao the Company may permanently tranetor Nm acoording to provisions of Item 9:03 c) Part 3.
APPENDIX TO THE COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT MAY 2000
APPENDIX 4
This appendix le part of the collective agreement between the U.F.C.W. - Local 137 and Cleyn & Tinker Inc.
Female employees with dependents are oonatdeied In the earn category as mala employees with dependents tor the Insurance benefits aooording to article 20.
To be eligible, the female or male employees concerned must have wholly dependents under the terms of the insurance pdey In sftoot
The Union end the Company acknowledge the fed that each employe* •IWble to these benefits ehait be considered wfth discretion.
Any false declaration on behalf of an employee to become Illegally eligible to these benefits Is subject to being discharged, however, the Company must Inform the employee of this toot.
APPENDIX TO THE
COLLECTIVE AflREEMENI
APPENDIX S
This appendix rsfsrt to letters of agreement vtfkch are part of (ha eoltootiue agreement between tha U.F.C.W. - Local 137Tand Cleyn A Tinker Inc.
Whereat clauses of the ooNsoHva agreement govern all genersHtles, Mtors of agreement, govsm special situations or swaption oases. Reference being made to tha following Isttars of agreement:
Aoqulracf right conosmlng working aohadulas.
vaoanoy requiring only ons (1) employee on a Job and whan ha Is scheduled regularly on days.
tor tha third (	,	. ..
of the ooUectlve agreement If CPI exceeds 3.0%.
Establishment of a twelve (12) hour winter schedule tor tha Job of "stationary engineer" at plant No. 6.
lack of material on the job of hurting and mending at plant No. 6.
Remuneration of
members of tha Union's executors oommtttao and method of reimbursement of amounts paid.
Six (6) tatters of	.
agreement regarding;
"Change allowing the night shift employees to begin and oomplata their
normal work week twentpfour (24) hours sartler.
Procedure to follow when
Time paid In the event of e
127
ffighte of ofltptayssfl owmfefljBbunUNtitfi 1MMMnninilnw)M^.<loiK(t
m^ntl^nV^lfW *PfW TIfwwTnw y
flmr (npUft i^f	*f ft"f»i
(ppojsctflssy* *nd 'MrirHMNwi sod
Hiyi ifi* mi vii|W|ViV
qusfflsd on jobs of lwmfow(rspl#r8 ofiCi profsonw# Sr«i womjfxm ^ps?jfp^RB(^ij ®nsi ®mp80yp^wwj ^ppn(j i^®iiii ftRiP
"MainttiwK)* tmi msohsnicsttsiidSnf*
j-i-, -tlMi_ mm--*l_	----t
JOT * wpi«! rriOfNnV ww fiwff Of
j^kMbJIUllillhM JkA MynlkMft W j|
vxpvntfiop «i p*»ni n 4*
Right* of iinploysOT C** or *Cl»« &■ *k
Igfkftk
«M WWfPnpwfwl iiwiJwnw JWi
m|mI^ ^f
rsooQntesd qustHtod «*»rd!rKJ to cftMfiait&Nt 101m A* m Urn
Rights of pisntn l
iLuhiHilUasA jhjtfh ftfeufc	M M
vmpoyMV wi wf oQBvmi w v
niimaiTnf iiiMUUU «l imftllltvriH^Mi
Fwrfwwnvbqmqjf kwh Mimpm* nWOnlW JOT*
Srt2*h»*oftht^ rsduotion amount of thosuipKtymsnt
(munikni pWHrthtrn tils.
CLEYN & TINKER INC. HUNTINGDON (QUEBEC)
end
U.F.C.W.-Local 137T CAPWKKSUXSR)
The puttee have Ngned thte agreement In
an ___________.
imuiswE
representing the union
m
•MH	* 1TH
w£W'Vommr
U.F.C.W.-LOCAL 1J7T
Dili
UJ».CW.-LOCAL I37T
Tnnd*llonofttMflaiH)««o(iyb«tn|M|iHd
UnCW'.lMMtWT

CUNNA TINKER INC.
U.F.CW.-LOCAL I37T
SUBJECT) (2uie§Mliwl«| lit elglrtiliUllobulii lid twpletmwlrwnwil week liwsrk
IHWMtH'MW (W) *•#*» «lt**V
Ai tons m pradwdaonMdi daw itwMwut tanoMiti whhtho*W" wttkwd Aim partial tgm if ^ofthtoonoirMdtmpk^«teoociiwli«(bllowta|<M|nilidJobKDMiM»a(eMbiMd
OMntor,mdWMirthmPlMN&2iMi«tohMdiri(MbyiMcntvotototl*i£toliMe(*to
txgtatte night ihUt{U, Hi06|*nie7i00*nwl3i00(Mld^ih0ieli0D«iAldiiwNwUlwi) twtmvi&ur (24) taw urtltr whtthtr Rom Sundiy nW faded of Moadtfnl|HtoMdoftMdv mon^lwlMdofSitunh^aHtiit^
IniudiOMe.homwoiliidaat)»(lntiMfterilivntk,bifintlngoQRi^wUlbtp«idiliitil^ttlM
to tho oootruy oftht cofloetfve apMawit wMttlMlfaMi
In ondtr to allow flu tuabBiteMU ofweb i dUMgi «d Hi dtmNom Hi Union VltoAmUtm of Nat No.2muitpnilitftottoPlittMiiN|ff«WThtiitMqMttt«Miflnnbi|tii«IOHof1homMerMd en^q^oalhedNlj^iijobimintkinnictilotihivoderidid.lqriiicritvoli.faflwwof bt^n«thinij^«hBltwiidy*ftw(24)hounMt1to'.
Hbwowr, IftfM OmiNWorthooixiQirwdonptypif with torn) lUi dungiml toimno Mi panto thin to Phil No. 2 Mmmi« or tin UnJw Vtoo-Pnridim of EM am plwt will hm to taftm thtotfwrporty, ty writWn nottoi, of It1! Howto. faito(to1teUtoV(oo?niifatof1lNpfad winhmlo|M«M«tlodiiPlMtNo.2MlM«iripilWMiitwdby<tl«itj<)i|4oftteinq>(0)fM conceraid Mting far i w* ooonmini Dili pweto, ml print* a writo ooritonriimitthlithtflMt of (ho employon hnwdiekfod (n ftvorofiwh Hqwit by Mont wot* toond to tom and to mono ■udhpMonao.
Ctooetoconeoitopirto too rooiivodito writo tototoi,toCo«p«)r will rowilibHihthi nomnlitoduti Hoarding to ttw hrai ortho Cototo Agmto* hudtoMtMeMdhtganoO) attudarwoOk.
In ardor to ivoid nQ'niiundmlMdinc bMWMB inplo^Mif dw Union MddHCoi^NBy, loopy of Am litttrof^(iim«ntwllifenudnpoitidlnthepl«it(iu(1i«lhBdun|Bofiohidute.
Ttolitoofa|fOMnMlliip|dianblioidyhtFfa*No.2.
'Ito UMirf hriyiri hiHytlmdiin. to ---------- . 2001.
NOTH.' Ttoltoooflfatocb copy befog ligned.
n
8
I
I
i
£
e
t
tmm jmn mbm pw	w «n« *4Bpi

APPENDICES APPENDIX"1"
PS1NEN 1
PLANT ISP. 1
union
COPES
05/Q5/D3
11-09
11-06
10-02
11-10
11-01
11-11
11-02
10-04
10-01
10-	03
11-	13 13-76 11-30
11-31
TflUX HOmMREMOURLV RATE
TACHES
oaos/op 07/05/Qi oaosm
17,05$
16,53$
15,86$
15,81$
15,71$
15,58$
15,53$
15,61$
15,03$
14^1$
1433$
14,19$
14,16$
17,42$
1630$
1633$
16,18$
16,08$
1535$
1530$
1437$
1538$
15,40$
15,18$
14,60$
14,56$
1433$
17,79$
17^7$
1635$
16,45$
1632$
1637$
1534$
15,77$
15,55$
1437$
1433$
1430$
12-	50
13-	72 13-74
Warehouse Faflers repairer Machine cleaner
13,49*	13,86$	14,23$
13,46*	13^3$	1430$
13,36*	13,73$	14,10$
14,60$
1437$
14,47*
PLANT NO.2
Schedule of rales for jobs being paid hourly part of Union agreement effective
May 8 2000.
COPES
RATE
20-03
20-01
20-02
21412
204)7
214)1
20-06
24-76
24-51
22-32
24-74
24-71
24-69
TACHES	JOBS	
		OSflS/M
		K t6M
		
Interacting	Pindraft	15,69*
Banc abrocfees	Roving	1539*
Opdratenranietofdage	Twisting operator	15,67*
Qpfaatciir de metiers a filer	Spinting frame operator	15,42*
Assembleuse (taches comb.)	Doubting (combined jobs)	1537$
Bobinoir	Winder	15,09$
Aide additiotmelaud^pt. de maintenance Adcfiticmal help in the Maintenance Dept		1332*
Empaqnetenr de £3	Yam packer	13,77*
- Manipnbteir	Packer-Handler	13,77$
Chaufiercde camion	Track driver	1339*
Huileor	OOet	13,48$
Concierge d’usine (fiadesemaine)	Plant janitor (weekend)	
(weekend)	13,48* 1335*	1432*
TAUX HORAIRE/HOURI Y
07105/01
16,06*
16,06*
16,06*
16,04*
15,79*
15,74*
15,46$
14,19*
14,14*
14,14*
13,96*
13,85$
1439*
06/35/02
16,43*
16y43*
1633*
16,41$
16,16*
16,11*
1533$
1436$
1431$
1431*
1433*
1432$
05/05/03
16,80*
16,80$
16,80$
16,78$
1633*
16,48*
1630$
1433*
14,88*
14,88*
14.70*
1439*
24-73
24-70
Concierge dcbracan	Office janitor	13,44$	13,81$	14,18$	14,55$
Concierge tfnsine	Plant janitor	13,41$	13,78$	14,15$	14,52$
Nettoyeurde machines	Marhiw deanw	13^6$	13,735	14,10$	14,47$
22-74
PLANT NO. 4
USINEN 4
Cedule des taox poor les t&ches payees a taux horaire faisant paitie de la convention collective de travail effectif le 8 mai 2000-
Schedule of rates for jobs being paid hourly part ofUnion agreement effective
May 8 2000.
TAUX HORMRBHOURLY RATE
COPES	TACHES	JOBS		(18A1V00	07/05/01	
05/05/03						
40-09	Altacheur d’eusouples et i6-ernoulenr	Warp tysr and re-beamer	14,18$	1445$	14,92$	1549$
41-02	Distribatcur de la tfame	Weft harder	14,15$	1442$	14,89$	1546$
43-34	Propose a ['assemblage des chaines	Charm rnalnw	14,07$	14,44$	14,81$	15,18$
40-03	Chef euroolear cTeflsouples	Warper beamer lead	14,03$	14,40$	14,77$	15,14$
40-07	Preparation cTaisouples	Warp preparation	1349$	1436$	14,73$	15,10$
40-08	Machine & caSamef	nnwring^ Tfmehmft	13,99$	14,36$	14,73$	15,10$
48-35	Tisserand d'echanttUons	weaver	13,87$	14,24$	14,61$	1448$
48-32	Ourdisseiir <f6chadtillans (Suzuki)	Pattern warper (Suzuki)				
	(Suzuki)	13JS7S 14,24$	14,61$	1448$		
48-30	Poseur H’mcwnphffcJttaclieair (ikhmtiHning) Warp hanger - tyar (sanq>lcs)		13,83$	14,20$	14,57$	1444*
44-76	Aide additwmnel an dept de maintenance Additional help In the Maintenance Dept.		13,82$	14,19$	14^6$	1443$
40-05	Fi6po86 an fil et eanouleur d’eosouples	Yam handler and wmpwlnanuT	13,77$	14,14$	1441$	14,88$
	(cambin£es)	(combined)				
44-34	Ajnstcur de h machine 6 enlamer	Drawing-in machine setting	13,69$	14,06$	14,43$	1440$
	etprtposdanx lanes	and harness handler				
46-31	Prcposdanfil	Yam handler	13,67$	14,04$	14,41$	14,78$
44-31	Prepose au rebobmage	Bsconer operator	1343$	1340$	1447$	1444$
47-31	Transpofteurdepifeces	Piece hauler	13,40$	13,77$	14,14$	1441$
44-52/53	Depannenr	Floater	1338$	13,75$	14,12$	14,49$
APPENDICE ”1
USINEN 4
CMale destaux pour lestaches payees a tanxhoraire feisant partie de la convention collective de travail efiecdf k 8 mai 2000.
CODES TAPIRS	JOBS
RATE
Sweeper
49-70
Balayeur
Concierge
Janitor
APPENDIX "1"
PLANT WO. 4
Schedule of rales for jobs being paid hourly pat of Union agreement effective
May 8 2000.
TAUX HORAIRE/HOURLY
08/05/00	07/PSA01	06/05/02 OSDSHa
13,36$	13,73$	14,10$	14,47$
13,36$	13,73$	14,10$	14,47$
APPENDICE “1
APPENDIX “1
USINEN 4
PLANT NO.4
C&Me des taux poor les tidies sous le syst&ne & boni (minutes standards) avec tanx de base faisaiil potie de La convention collective de travail effectifle 8 mai 2000.
Schedule of rates for jobs on bonus system (standard minutes) with base rate, part of Union agreement effective May 8 2000.
Note:	L'opportmrile moyarae des gains
cgalea 125% des tanx de base, e
Note:	Average fypnrtwmiy rtflwtirty wimingB
equal to 125% of the base rate.
COOES	TACHES		omsm
43-02	Anangenr de metiers (rapiires et projectiles) (2 ans etplns d’exp&ience)	Loom fixer (rapier and projectile) (2 yeazs ormore of experience)	12,052$
43-11	Anrangeur de metiers (rapteres) (2 ans et phis d’expericnce)	Loam fixer (rapier) (2 years or more of experience)	
43-06	Anangrur de metiers (projectiles) (2 ans et plus d’exp&ience)	Ixiom fixer (projectile) (prqectQe) (2 years or mote of experience)	
43-07	Anaageurde metiers (lapi&es et projectiles) (1 an mats means de 2 ans cfcxp&ience)	Loom fixer (rapier and projectile) (1 year bat less titan 2 years' experience)	12,002$
43-12	Anangear de m&ieis (rapteres) (1 antnusmamsde2ass<fexpenaice)	Loom fixer (rapier) (1 year bat less &an 2 years’ experience)	12,002$
43-08	Anangeor de metiers (projectiles)	Loom fixer (projectile)	
	(projectile) (1 an mats tnoins de 2 ans d’expdrieace)	12,002$ 12398$ (1 year bat less than 2 years’ experience)	12,594$
43-09	Anangeurde m&ieis (rapiercs et projectiles) (Moms (ftm an d*cxp6rieoce)	Loam fixer (rapier and projectile) (Less than 1 year of experience)	11352$
43-13	Anangeur de m&iero (tqntees) (Moras <fnn an d’exp&ieoce)	Loom fixer (rapier) (Less than 1 year of experience)	11352$
IAUXPE BASE / BASE RATE
07A15A)1 12348$	06/05/02 12,644$	054)5/03 12340$
12398$	12394$	12390$
12398$	12394$	12,890$
12390$		
12348$	12344$	12340$
12348$	12344$	12340$
11,952$
12*248$
12344$
12840$
(Meins (fun an d’expcrience) 43-04	Poseur cTensoaptes (chef de file)
APPENDICE -1“
CpngectOe)
(Lesslbaii 1 year of experience)
Warp hanger (lead)	11812$	12,108$	12,404$	12,700$
APPENDIX "1"
1JSINEN 4
C£dn$e des tame poor les tidies sons le systfane abooi
(rwtrm*<-g •gtanrUrrig) awn tame de hase fajsant partie de la convention collective de travail eflbctif le 8 mai 2000.
Note:	L'opportunite naoyeane des gains horares est
^galea 125% des taux de base.e
PLANT NO. 4
Schedule of rates for jobs on bonus system (standard nrimrtes) with base rate, part of Union agreement effective May 8 2000.
Note:	Average opportunity of hourly earcocg^ is
equal to 125% of the base rate.
TAfHFS
43-05	Poseur rfensouples - attaefeeur
42-04	Tisseiand
Onrdisseitr
Waip hanger - tyer Weaver
Waiper operator
TAUX PE BASE/BASE RATE
OM&BP	07/05/01	06/05/32	05/05/05
11,722$	12,018$	12314$	12,610$
11886$	11,882$	12,178$	12,474$
11882$	11,678$	11374$	12370$
40-01
Taux de base X BJ*. +.____________.4,77$.________5,14$.........5,51$.
+______________4*77$._________5,14$._______5,51$______
Base rate X PJ3. +
BJ*.: Bcmi de prodnction PJB.: Prodnction bonps
______5,88$
—5,88$
APPEND1CE -1-
USTNEN 6
APPENDIX "1"
FLAJ1TNQ.6
Schedule of rates for jobs being paid hourly part of Union agreement effective
May 8 2000.
TAUX HORAtRE/HOURLY
08/05/00	07/06/01	06/05/02	05/05/03
62-03
66-09
664)6
66-11
61-03
61-01
61-	04
62-	07 6206
62-05
64-53
ex-u
61-05
61-16
Toodeose
et produits dumiqiKS Operatmr - Temtmc ep pieces
Opdcatenr - Teintore eapaquets Fixageet lavage content
Laveose
Shear	15,86$
Dyes md chemicals drag room	15,79$
Piece dyeing operate	15,79$
Package dyeing operator	1532$
rVwtiniiwwergMvmganH naAing	1433$
Warier
1532$
Propose a rentrepot dcs pieces	Lead grey room Y.D.
de fils temts (Chef de file)
Pfortaage permanent	Permanent derating
DScatissage content etvaporisagc (comb.)	Coatmaous dreating and sponging (comb.)
(am*.) 14,09$ 14,46$	1433$	15,20$
riiiygtigaigR <»r*iw / flomhag^ fcnmhmeej;)	Fall dccator /Singeing (comhinrd) 14,09$
D6pmaeor-op6ratenr	Floater-opaatur	14,09$
Propose a k leiidure en paquets (sechoir) Package dyeing helper (dryer)	14,02$
Propose a l'entrepfit des pieces	Lead grey room PJ>.	14,00$
iteindre (Chef defile)
Nettoyage a sec (tficbes cmrihmfes)	Dry cleaaer (combinedjefcs)	13,96$
14,15$
14,09$
1633$	16,60$	1637$
16,16$	1633$	16305
16,16$	1633$	1630$
1539$	1636$	16,63$
1430$	1537$	15,64$
14>21$	1433$	1435$
1432$	14,89$	1536$
14,46$	1433$	1530$
14,46$	1433$	1530$
14,46$	1433$	1530$
1439$	14,76$	15,13$
1437$	14,74$	15.11$
1433$	14,70$	15,07$
APPENDICE “1
USINEN 6
Cedule des taux pour les tacbes payees a taux horaire faisant partie de la convention collective de travail efiectif le 8 mai 2000.
APPENDIX "1
BLANTNO.6
May 8 2000.
CODES TACHES	JOBS	TAUX HOMURBHOUWLY
RATE
			oaosap	07/05J01	moan	05/05/03
65-76	Aide aAttiwwiel an <lfj# ife maintenance Additional help in the Maintenance Dept.		13,82$	14,19$	1436$	1433$
62-31	Petmere examination	Finish perch	13,80$	14,17$	1434$	1431$
64-32	Enveloppage	Wrapping	13,80$	14,17$	1434$	1431$
64-50	Expedition	Shipping	13,79$	14,16$	1433$	1430$
65-48	Prcpos6 anx echantiUons (aide)	Sample room helper	13,79$	14.16$	1433$	1430$
62-30	Pignfeeexamhwtwm	Rongh perch	13,72$	14,09$	14,46$	14,83$
63*07	Reprisal paiticnlicr	Speciat mending	13,71$	14,08$	14,45$	14,82$
64-51	Pilose & Fentrepot de tissu fini	Stockroom	13,65$	14,02$	1439$	14,76$
61-06	Repose 1 rentiepcSt (aide)	Greigc room helper https 13,65$ 14,02$	1439$	14,76$		
64-52	DqiamiHX	Floater	13,65$	14,02$	1439$	14,76$
64-54	Aide general	General helper	13,65$	14,02$	1439$	14,76$
64*35	Machine a rcmlcr	Uniting TMchiim	13,65$	14,02$	1439$	14,76$
64-36	Machine a rouler en double	Ruffing machine (doable) (doable) 13,65$	14,02$	1439$	14,76$	
65-70	Concierge	Janitor	1336$	13,73$	14,10$	14,47$
APPENEMCEY'
tJSINEN 6
C6dule des taux pour les t§ches sous le systfeme k bom (minutes standards) avec taux debase faisant partie de la convaition collective de travail efiecttfle 8 mai 2000.
Note:
est
a 125% des 1aux de base.
TAones
61-07
Scutcher
62-02
Dryer
63-08
+____
Specking
Tans de base XB.P. Base rate XP.B.+
Bf.: Booide production
P3.: Production betas
APPENDIX "1
PLANT NO-rt
Schedule of rates for jobs on bonus system (standard minutes) with base rate, part of Union agreement effective May 8 2000.
Note:	Average opportunity of hourly earnings
equal to 125% of the base rate.
TAUX DEBASE/BASE RATE			
08/05/00	Q7AfoPl	06/05/02	05/05/03
11,042$	11338$	11,634$	11330$
11330$	11,042$	11338$	11,634$
10,032$
10328$
10,624$
10320$
APPENDIX"!
MAINTENANCE MECHANIC
Schedule of rates for jobs beiog paid hourly part of Union agreement effective
2000.
IAUX HORAIRPHOURLY RATE
mm omm	m&m\ Qimm
17,00$
16,80$
14,77$
14,27$
13,82$
17,37$
17,17$
15,14$
14,64$
14,19$
17,74$
17,54$
15,51$
15,01$
14,56$
18,11$
17,91$
15,88$
15,38$
14,93$
COR?S DE METIERS - TRADESMEN
ELECTRICIEN
Cedule des taux pour les taches payees k tanx horaire fidsantpaitiede la convention collective de travail effectif le 8 toai 2000.
ELECTRICIAN
Schedule of rates for jobs being paid hourly part ofUmon agreement effective
May 8 2000.
TACHES
JOBS
KFFiTTRIfTfRM AVEC LICENCE "C» Chef defile
Phis <fun an d’exp&ience
Moms tTun an cfexpericuce AIDE-ELEC t KJCtbN Phis de 3 ans (fexperience Plus de 2 ans cTexpericoce Plus de 1 an <fe%p£nence
More than one year experience 16,80$	17,17$
experience
Less than one year experience ET FCTRICIAN HELPER More than 3 years' experience
experience
More than 1 year experience
13,95$	14325
D&otant
TAUX HOmMRBHOURLY RATE
08/05/00	07/05/01	oaosm	05/05/03
17,00$	1737$	17,74$	18,11$
1734$	1731$		
1630$	1637$	1734$	17,61$
1435$	14,72$	15,09$	15,46$
14.055	14,42$	14,79$	15,16$
14,69$	15,06$		
14,12$	14,49$	1436$	1533$
APPENDICE "1"
MECANICHCN TOE MAfBlNKS F1XRS
APPENDIX -1"
CORPS ME MATTERS - TRADESMEN
STATIONARY ENGINEER
faisant partie de la convention collective de travail efiectifle 8 mai 2000.
May 8 2000.
Schedule of rales for jobs being paid hourly part of Union agreement effective
TACHTES
APPRENTI
5e classc
■» * uefunam
STATIONARY KNOT
2nd class
3ri class
4th class
APPRENTICE
5tfa class
TAUX HORAjRBHOUWLV RATE
QSfflSOO
17,00$
1630$
16,80$
14,055
13,855
07/05rtH
1737$
1737$
17,17$
14,42$
1432$
06/05/02
17,74$
17,64$
1734$
14,79$
1439$
05/05/03
18,11$
18,01$
1731$
15,16$
1436$
APPENfKCE "1
CORPS
TUYAUTEUR
Cedule des tanx pour les t&ches payees i tanx horaire faisant paitie de la convention collective de travail efiectifle 8 mai 2000.
APPENDIX “1"
METIERS - TRADESMEN
HFEMTTKR
Schedule of rates for jobs being paid hourly part of Union agrecmCTt effective
May 8 2000.
JOBS
TAUX HORAIREIHOURLY RATE
08/05/00	07/05/01	06/05/02	QS/05/03
TtryAi iteur ajcence de compa
Chef de file

PIPEFTTTER/XKJRNEYMAN’S LICENCE! Lead
Flos (Fan an <f experaaoe
Moins cTun an <fexperience AFPRENTI
More than one year experience experience	16,80$	17,17$
Less than one year experience
APPRENTICE
More than 3 years' experience More than 2 yean* experience
More than 1 year experience 13,95$ 1432$ 14,69$	15,06$
17,00$	1737$	17,74$	18,11$
1734$	1731$		
16^0$	16,87$	1734$	17,61$
1435$	14,72$	15,09$	15,46$
14,05$	14,42$	14,79$	15,16$
Beghmer
13,75$
14,12$
14,49$
14,86$
Circulation
500 et plus non- stratlfl6 anterieur d 2001 vont en circulation (doivent avoir un sommaine d'entente)
2001 et plus, seulement les stratifies doivent avoir des sommaires d'ententes
Settlement	Renewall
Agent	Agent
Publication	Working