PATONS & BALDWINS CANADA INC. - and -
A.C.T.W.U. - LOCAL 836 AGREEMENT
MAY 1. 1990 - APRIL 30, 1992
This Agreement entered into as of the 1st day of May 1990
BETWEEN
PATONS & BALDWINS CANADA INC., 1001 Roselawn A vet, Toronto, hereinafter referred to as "The Company” of the first part
AND
AMALGAMATED CLOTHING & TEXTILE WORKERS UNION, Local 836, hereinafter referred to as the "Union" of the second part.
Article 1 PURPOSE OF AGREEMENT
1.01	The general purpose of this Agreement is to provide means for
operation of the plant in a manner which will further in all possible ways the welfare and the safety of employees, betterment and quality of the product, economy of manufacture and the quantity of output all to the mutual interest and advantage of the employees and the Company. Furthermore it is the intent and purpose of the parties hereto that this Agreement shall promote and improve the relationships between the Company and the Employees and shall establish an understanding covering hours of work, rates of pay, and conditions of employment.
Where the masculine pronoun is used in this Agreement it shall mean and include the feminine pronoun where the context so applies.
Article 2 BARGAINING AGENCY
2.01	The Company recognizes the Union as the exclusive collective
bargaining agency with respect to all matters properly arising under this Agreement for all its employees employed in or about its mill or premises in The Metropolitan Toronto, or surrounding areas, save and except -
Supervisors, persons above the rank of supervisors, persons regularly employed for not more than twenty-four hours per week, Stationary Engineers, regularly employed as such for more than twenty-four hours per week, Office Staff and Homeworkers.
For the purpose of negotiating, the Company agrees to the recognition of a committee of not more than five employees having at least one year of seniority, together with a representative of the National Organization of the Union.
Article 2
2.02
2.03
2.04
BARGAINING AGENCY (con t’d)
Supervisors and employees in the exempt classifications will not normally do the work of their regular employees except for purpose of instruction, emergencies or when regular employees are not available.
The wages of the Negotiating Committee will be maintained.
The Company continues to recognize a Union/Management committee which will meet when necessary to discuss problems that may arise pertaining to this collective agreement.
The Committee will consist of no more than three (3) members of the Negotiating Committee and no more than three (3) persons representing the Company. The Union agrees that no more than two (2) members will be representatives of one (1) occupational group.
Article 3 MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
3.01
(a)
(b)
(c)
The Union acknowledges that it is the exclusive function of the Company to:-
Maintain order, discipline and efficiency:
Hire, lay-off, discharge, classify, direct, transfer, promote, demote and suspend or otherwise discipline employees, subject to the provisions of this Agreement and employees and/or Union’s right to grieve: and
Generally to manage the industrial enterprise in which the Company is engaged and, without restricting the generality of the foregoing to determine the products to be manufactured, methods of manufacture, schedules of production, kinds and locations of machines and tools to be used, process of manufacturing, the engineering and designing of its products, the control of materials and parts to be incorporated in the products produced, the extension, limitation, curtailment or cessation of operations and all other matters concerning the operation of the Company’s business not specifically dealt with elsewhere in this Agreement.
The Company agrees that these functions will be exercised in a manner consistent with the provisions of this Agreement.
Article 4
DISCIPLINE AND DISCHARGE
4.01
4.02
4.03
The Company reserves the right to discharge an employee for any just cause, including, but not being restricted to the following reasons.
Incompetency, insubordination, absence without leave, smoking in prohibited areas, drunkenness, drinking intoxicating liquors while on duty, taking or being under the influence of illegal drugs while on duty, endangering his own safety or the safety of a fellow employee, stealing or otherwise removing any property from the premises illegally.
A “Notice of Discharge” shall be given to the employee in writing and one copy will be made available to the Union Steward concerned. The Company however, in cases where the offence does not warrant immediate release, will first issue a “Notice of Warning”. This notice will also be in writing and a copy will be given to the Union Steward concerned.
The Union will not question the dismissal of any probationary employee, nor shall such dismissal be the subject of a grievance. However, if the dismissed employee has worked for a period of at least 4 complete weeks, the Company will provide clarification to the Union prior to dismissal.
A claim by a permanent employee that has allegedly been unjustly discharged shall be treated as a grievance if a written statement of such grievance is lodged with the Personnel Department of the Company within five days after the employee ceases to work for the Company, and steps 1 and 2 of Article 6 - Grievance Procedure will be omitted in such case.
4.04
(a)
(£>)
(c)
4.05
Such special grievance may be settled under the Grievance Procedure by:
Confirming the Management’s action in dismissing the permanent employee.
Re-instating the employee with full compensation for time lost.
Or by any other arrangement which may be deemed just and equitable.
A. disciplined employee, on request, shall have the right of access of his Union before leaving the plant.
Artcle 4
4.06
fc)
(b)
4.07
DISCIPLINE AND DISCHARGE (cont'd)
Should an employee who is a member of the bargaining unit be absent from work due to sickness or injury that is non work-related, the Company will ensure that seniority will be maintained for a period equal to his seniority up to a maximum of fifteen (13) months. However, the employee must supply the Company with regular medical progress reports indicating:
that the employee will be able to return to his regular job, and;
expected return to work date.
If the employee fails to provide the company with the above data, a letter of termination may be issued in accordance with the Employment Standards Act.
Records of disciplinary action for lateness and/or absenteeism only, will not be used against an employee, provided nine (9) months has elapsed since the last verbal or written warning was issued.
Article 5
STEWARDS
5.01
5.02
The company recognizes the right of the Union to appoint or otherwise select stewards in accordance with the following representation based as nearly as possible on the numerical size of each department and to further appoint or otherwise select from amongst the stewards one who will act as, and perform the functions of a Chief Steward.
Department or Section	Number of Stewards
Drawing	2
Spinning	1
Twisting	1
Reeling	1
Dyehouse	2
Inspecting	1
Winding, Rewinding, Brushing,
6c Superba	2
Packing 6c Labelling; Over Printing (Includes - Balling, Pull Skein and General Finishing Help, Balling Accumulators 6c
Pull Skein Accumulators).	2
Top Stock,	1
Iron Street Distribution Centre	1
Maintenance: Machinery Maintenance Maintenance General Services,
Carpenters	1
Roselawn Ave., Bulk/Pack, Receiving	1
All Departments (Sergeant at Arms)	1
An employee will not be eligible to serve as a steward unless he has had one or more years’ continuous service with the Company. Furthermore, a steward must be an employee in the department or occupational group he represents. The Union undertakes to notify the Company in writing of the names of the stewards and the department or sections each represents and of any changes in the personnel of the stewards which may be made from time to time before the Company shall be required to recognize them.
Article 5 STEWARDS (cont'd)
5.03
(1)
(2)
(3)
5.0k
Stewards shall be free to discharge their duties without fear that their relations with the Company may be affected in any way. Moreover the Company agrees to compensate stewards for all time spent in the servicing of grievances, when they would otherwise be at work, provided they strictly adhere to the following requirements.
Will not absent themselves from their regular work unreasonably in order to deal with the grievances of employees.
Will not enter a department where a grievance has been reported without informing the supervisor of that department of their presence and the person they wish to consult.
Will not absent themselves from their regular work without first obtaining permission of their supervisor. Likewise when resuming their regular work will report to their supervisor and if requested advise which department they have visited. Permission shall not be unreasonably withheld.
Stewards shall be free to solicit new members on the Company’s premises provided such solicitation does not take place during working hours.
The Company recognizes the right of the Union to appoint or otherwise select a Grievance Committee. An employee will not be eligible to serve as a member of the Grievance Committee unless he has had one or more years’ continuous service with the Company. Members shall be allowed time off when it is found necessary to meet with the Management and will be compensated for time so spent when they would otherwise be at work. However not more than three (3) members of the Grievance Committee will meet with Management at any one time. The Union agrees that no more than two (2) members will be representatives of one (1) occupational group.
Article 6 GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
6.01	A grievance is defined as a difference between the Company and the
Union or an employee as to the interpretation of, or application of, or compliance with the terms and conditions of this Collective Agreement.
No grievance shall be considered:
(a)	Where the circumstances giving rise to it occurred or originated more than seven (7) working days before filing of the grievance.
Article 6 (b)
Step No. 1 Step No. 2
Step No. 3
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE (con t’d)
Unless the employee or group of employees has given their immediate supervisor a reasonable opportunity of adjusting same.
An employee having a grievance shall first submit it orally or in writing to his supervisor and shall be accompanied by his union steward. The supervisor shall deal with the grievance and deliver his answer orally or in writing to the grievor within two (2) working days after receipt of the grievance.
If the decision of the supervisor is not satisfactory it may be appealed in writing to the manager concerned, or other person designated by the Company, by the steward within two (2) working days following the decision of the supervisor. The manager will deal with the grievance and render his decision in writing to the griever within two (2) working days following the day upon which he received the grievance.
If the decision of the manager is not satisfactory, the grievance may be taken up within seven (7) full working days at a meeting between the Grievance Committee and the Company’s Personnel Manager. Either party may request the presence of the grievor at this meeting.
Nothing stated in the foregoing shall preclude the right of the Union to have a permanent representative of the National Organization present or the Company from having its own special representative present at the negotiations between the Personnel Manager and the Grievance Committee or between the President of the Company or any other person or persons designated by him and the Grievance Committee.
The Personnel Manager shall give his written decision not later than ten (10) working days following the date on which the step three meeting was held.
If the decision of the Personnel Manager is not acceptable to the grievor, the grievance may be submitted to arbitration as provided in Article 7. If notice to proceed to arbitration is not received within (10) ten working days following the date of the Personnel Manager? decision, the grievance will be considered to have been settled or abandoned.
In the case of a permanent employee who feels that he has been unjustly discharged, Article 4.03 of the Collective Agreement shall apply.
Article 6 6.02
6.03
Article 7 7.01
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE (cont'd)
Any difference arising directly between the Union and the Company relating to violations, interpretations and applications of the Agreement shall be processed under the provisions of this Article and shall be initiated at Step #3.
The Company recognizes the right of the Union to grieve on behalf of individual employees.
ARBITRATION
When either party requests that any matter be submitted to arbitration as hereinafter provided, it shall make such request in writing addressed to the other party to this Agreement and at the same time nominate an arbitrator. Within five working days thereafter, the other party shall nominate an arbitrator. The two arbitrators so nominated shall meet immediately and if within three working days they fail to settle the grievance, they shall attempt to select by agreement a third person to be a member and Chairman of the Arbitration Board. If they are unable to agree upon such a Chairman within a further period of two working days, they may then request the Minister of Labour for the Province of Ontario to assist them in selecting a Chairman, provided that the Chairman shall be selected from other than the Civil Service and shall be chosen having regard to his impartiality, his qualifications in interpreting Collective Bargaining Agreements and his familiarity with Industrial Relations.
In determining any grievance arising out of discharge or other discipline, the Arbitration Board may dispose of the claim by affirming the Company’s action and dismissing the grievance or by setting aside the disciplinary action involved and restoring the grievor to his former position with or without compensation or in such other manner as may in the opinion of the Arbitration Board be justified.
No person may be appointed as an arbitrator who has been involved in an attempt to negotiate or settle the grievance.
No matter may be submitted to arbitration which has not been properly carried through all previous steps of the grievance procedure.
The Arbitration Board shall not be authorized to make any decision inconsistent with the provisions of the Agreement, nor to alter, modify or amend any part of this Agreement.
The proceedings of the Arbitration Board will be expedited by the parties hereto, and the decision of the Chairman of such Board will be final and binding upon the parties hereto.
Article 7 ARBITRATION (cont'd)
Each of the parties hereto will bear the expense of the arbitrator appointed by it and the parties will jointly bear the expense, if any, of the Chairman of the Arbitration Board.
Article 8
8.01
8.02
(a)
(b)
(c)
8.03
(a)
(b)
8.04
8.05	(a)
WAGES
The Company agrees to pay and the Union agrees to accept during the life of this Agreement, the basic time work rates and piece work rates in effect during the week ending May 7th, 1990 subject to the changes and adjustments which are to become effective on the date specified in 8.02 below. Piece Work rates, as adjusted, will be posted in departments paid on a piece work basis and the schedule of time rated classifications shown on Schedule "A" will be attached to and form part of this Agreement.
EFFECTIVE April 29, 1990
All time work rates will be incresed by 50£ (fifty cents) per hour.
All piece work rates will be increased by 4.8% (four point eight per cent).
The Company will retain a Group Bonus for the Dyehouse employees, skilled Maintenance, Spinning and Drawing employees with details to be changed or adjusted when necessary by the company.
EFFECTIVE April 28th 1991
All time work rates will be increased by 50£ (fifty cents) per hour.
All piece work rates will be increased by 4.58% (four point five eight per cent).
Nothing stated in 8.01 shall be deemed to deprive the Company of its right to adjust the time rates of individual employees within the limits of the time work rates contained in Schedule "A" nor of applying at anytime a scale of piece work, incentive or bonus rates such as may be mutually satisfactory to the Company and the Union.
Since employment is dependent upon the demand for the Company’s products, the parties hereto recognize the importance of attaining and maintaining maximum employee efficiency and productivity and of continual progress in the development of improved manufacturing methods to meet customer requirements on a competitive basis.
Article 8
(b)
(i)
(ii)
WAGES (con t'd)
It is recognized and agreed that it is the right of the Company to institute changes in tasks, work assignments or incentive rates, and the following procedure shall apply:
The Company shall first inform the Union of the fact that a major change is to be made and of the approximate date thereof. The parties shall meet and, except in case of emergencies, discuss the proposal at least two (2) weeks before the date fixed for the institution of such change. The Company will furnish all information which is necessary for a complete understanding of the proposed change.
If there is any question as to the equity of the change in tasks, work assignments, or new incentive rates, a trial period not exceeding thirty (30) days shall be instituted in order to give fair trial to such tasks, work assignments, or incentive rates. If, following the trial period, there is no agreement between the parties, the Union, within fifteen (15) days following the end of the trial period, may present a written statement of its grievances. A further fifteen (15) days will be allowed for a satisfactory adjustment to be made by negotiations between the 2 parties. If agreement is not reached, the Company accepts that the Union will be permitted to study the operation in question by their qualified Industrial Engineer. Should there still be no satisfactory adjustment agreeable to the 2 parties the matter may be submitted by either party to arbitration for a final and binding decision.
(iii)	No worker shall receive assistance during the trial period which he would not normally receive.
(iv)	During the trial period referred to in (ii), the employee shall be paid on the basis of his average earnings, provided that any increase in the said rates arising by mutual agreement between the parties out of the negotiations referred to above, or resulting from the decision of the Arbitration Board, will be made retroactive to the date that the new rates were posted and became effective.
8.06	When an employee is temporarily assigned to another job for the
convenience of the Company, he will receive the rate for the job to which he is transferred or the rate of the previously held job -whichever is higher.
Article 9
TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE
9.01
9.02
Article
10.01
10.02
In the event of technological change, including the installation of new mechanical, electronic, or automated equipment that will affect the job status of any employee in the Bargaining Unit, the Company will:
(a) As far in advance as possible before the installation of such equipment, meet with the Union Committee and provide the Committee with data regarding the proposed date of installation, number and classification of employees likely to be affected by it, and
(fa) Provide adequate training facilities in the operation of such
equipment, so that the senior displaced employees will have the opportunity to qualify for such new jobs created by the installation of the equipment.
(c)	In the case of other employees who may be displaced by the equipment and for whom no work is available in the department concerned, the Company will arrange transfers to other departments or occupations and will undertake to train such employees for a two-month period, if necessary, at the learning rate in effect for the department or occupation to which he has been transferred.
(d)	Failure on the part of the Company to offer employment as outlined in (c) will result in a displacement wage being paid to such employees. The displacement wage shall be an amount equivalent to one week's earnings for each full year of the employee’s continuous service with the Company. However, failure on the part of the employee to accept employment in another department or occupation on the terms outlined in (c) relieves the Company of its obligation to pay a displacement wage.
In the event of dispute arising out of this provision, the matter shall be subject to the grievance and arbitration procedure.
10 HOURS OF WORK, OVERTIME, WAITING TIME,
REPORTING TIME, REST PERIODS & SHIFT PREMIUMS
Attached to and forming part of this Agreement is Schedule "B" which is a schedule of the hours of work, starting and quitting times, rest periods and shift premiums.
Overtime hours are those worked in excess of the standard day or weekly hours as listed in Schedule "B" and work performed on a Saturday, Sunday or Statutory Holiday listed herein.
SCHEDULE "B"
HOURS OF WORK, OVERTIME, WAITING TIME, REPORTING TIME, REST PERIODS & SHIFT PREMIUMS
HOURS OF WORK: The standard working week shall consist of the following:
First Shift:	40 hours per week - 8 hours daily - Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday,
Thursday, Friday.
Second Shift:	4 0 hours per week - 8 hours daily - Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday,
Thursday, Friday
Third Shift:
Drawing, Spinning,	33 3/4 hours	per week - 6 3/4 hours per shift -
Twisting, Reeling,	commencing	Sunday night and ending the following	Friday
& Finishing Depts:	Morning
Third Shift:
Top Stock, Dyehouse,	40 hours per	week - 8 hours per shift - commencing
Maintenance	Sunday night	and ending the following Friday morning;	and
except where three shift operations require otherwise, the morning starting times and the afternoon quitting times shall be as follows:
Department
Hours of Work
Lunch Period
*Top Stock
Drawing
Spinning
Twisting
Reeling
Dyehouse
Inspection
Finishing
*Machinery Maintenance * Maintenance - General Services Shade Card
Iron Street - Distribution Centre
7:30 a.m. to	4:00	p.m.	1/2	hour
7:00 a.m. to	3:30	p.m.	1/2	hour
7:00 a.m. to	3:30	p.m.	1/2	hour
7:00 a.m. to	3:30	p.m.	1/2	hour
7:00 am.m to 3:30 p.m. 1/2 hour 7:00 a.m. to	3:30	p.m.	1/2	hour
7:00 a.m. to	3:30	p.m.	1/2	hour
7:00 a.m. to	3:30	p.m.	1/2	hour
7:00 a.m. to	3:30	p.m.	1/2	hour
7:00 a.m. to	3:30	p.m.	1/2	hour
8:00 a.m. to	4:30	p.m.	1/2	hour
8:00 a.m. to	4:30	p.m.	1/2	hour
*Some employees in these departments may have different starting times than those stated above and these times will be deemed to be the normal starting hours for those involved.
SCHEDULE "B" HOURS OF WORK, OVERTIME, WAITING TIME, REPORTING TIME, REST PERIODS AND SHIFT PREMIUMS (cont’d)
Where departments, sections thereof or individual employees are required for three shift operations, the starting and quitting times will be as follows:
Department First Shift
Second Shift (excluding Top Stock, Dyehouse)
Hours of Work
7:00 a.m. to 3:30 p.m.
3:30 p.m. to 11:55 p.m.
* Second Shift (Dyehouse & Maintenance
excluding General)	3:00 p.m. to 1 1:30 p.m.
*Second Shift (Top Stock)
2:00 p.m. to 10:30 p.m.
Third Shift (Drawing, Spinning,
Twisting, Reeling, Finishing) 11:45 p.m. to 7:00 a.m.
*Third Shift (Dyehouse, Maintenance
excluding General)	11:00 p.m. to 7:30 a.m.
^Third Shift (Top Stock)
10:30 p.m. to 7:00 a.m.
Lunch Period 1/2 hour
1/2 hour
1/2 hour 1/2 hour
1/2 hour
1/2 hour 1/2 hour
Third Shift: Drawing, Spinning, Twisting, Reeling and Finishing Departments will be paid for a (7) seven hour shift and a (35) thirty-five hour week. While the above defines the normal hours of work it shall not be construed or interpreted as a guarantee by the Company of a specified number of hours of work per shift or shifts of work per week. It shall, moreover, be clearly understood, that notwithstanding the starting and quitting times mentioned above, any work performed before or after these times which is authorized by the Company and agreeable to the employees concerned shall not be considered overtime until the normal 8 hours have first been completed.
1.	Cleaning will be done weekly by the department which employs two
and three shift operations. Full (8) eight hour shifts will be allowed cleaning time as follows:
WEEKLY
DEPARTMENT	SECTION	CLEANING
PERIOD
Drawing
Spinning
Twisting
Reeling
Finishing
All Sections All Sections All Sections All Sections Winding Balling Bagging Packing
30 minutes 30 minutes 30 minutes 30 minutes 30 minutes 25 minutes 15 minutes 10 minutes
SCHEDULE "B" HOURS OF WORK, OVERTIME, WAITING TIME, REPORTING TIME, REST PERIODS AND SHIFT PREMIUMS (cont'd)
Cleaning duties will be carried out by full (8) eight hour shifts according to publications which may be altered from time to time to accomodate everyone as fairly as possible.
The Third Shift will be given a (15) fifteen minute allowance per shift for general cleaning and house-keeping.
2.	OVERTIME: Overtime will be on a voluntary basis but employees
are expected to co-operate and perform overtime when asked to do so by the Company, Notice of overtime work will be given, if possible, twenty-four hours prior to such work being performed, except in cases of emergency.
Employees who agree to work pre-scheduled overtime and who do not fulfill their committment, without a reason acceptable to the company, will not be considered when subsequent pre-scheduled overtime schedules are prepared, unless no qualified substitute can be found.
All authorized work performed by an employee in excess of 8 (eight) hours per shift and 40 (forty) hours per week shall be considered overtime and remunerated at time and one-half an employee’s regular hourly rate in the case of an hourly rated employee, and time and one-half an employee’s average hourly earnings, excluding overtime premium, in the case of a piece-rated employee.
Furthermore, authorized work performed on Saturday will be considered overtime and remunerated at time and one-half and any work performed on a Sunday, which has been specifically scheduled by the Company, will be remunerated at double time. However, where Sunday work is performed by an employee because, for personal reasons, he was unable to work on the Saturday, the overtime rate of time and one-half will apply.
Employees who are requested and work more than (3) three hours overtime in any working day will be entitled to a half hour rest period. Employees will be paid for 15 minutes of this rest period at time and one-half. This applies only to those employees who actually take the rest period and punch their time card accordingly.
Employees who work overtime for three or more hours on a particular shift will be eligible for a $6.00 meal allowance if the request for such overtime is not received prior to the commencement of the shift.
When an employee is called in by the Company for overtime work he shall be guaranteed a minimum of four (4) hours work and be paid at the regular overtime rate of time and one-half or double time for Sunday.
SCHEDULE "B" HOURS OF WORK, OVERTIME, WAITING TIME, REPORTING TIME, REST PERIODS AND SHIFT PREMIUMS (cont’d)
3.	WAITING TIME: Where, due to breakdowns, power failure, lack of
work or other unforeseen circumstances, production is temporarily interrupted, but employees are required to remain “waiting” on the premises, such “waiting time” will be compensated for in the following manner:
(a)	Timeworkers: At their regular rates of pay.
<b)	Pieceworkers: At their average incentive hourly earnings during the
(A) four weeks immediately preceding the week in which the “waiting time" occurs.
(c) Team Pieceworkers: such as: Automated Balling and Pull Skein
Machine Operators, Packers, etc.; will be paid their four (4) weekly average as in (b) above. Notwithstanding anything else in this article, during breakdowns, an employee who is qualified and is assigned to other work will be paid the appropriate piece work rate. In the absence of such aitenate work the employee will be paid the automated machine non-incentive rate.
Definition: The automated Machine non-incentive rate is an hourly rate applied to individual or team piece work operations which combine manual and automatic functions where operators’ attention is important to maximize machine efficiency.
(d) If an employee who has completed his probationary period is
transferred to other work in lieu of lay-off, he will be paid the rate of a General Jobber, provided that his rate at the time of transfer is higher than the General Jobber rate, otherwise his rate will be at the learning rate for the job.
k.	REPORTING TIME: Unless he has been advised by the Company not
to report, an employee who reports for work at the commencement of his regular shift and for whom no work is available in his normal classification shall be paid the equivalent of (4) four hours’ work at his regular rate provided that if requested by the Company the employee shall perform available work to which he may be assigned, and further provided that the provisions of this paragraph shall not apply in the event of power or steam failure, fire, flood or any other conditions whatsoever beyond the control of the Company.
Failure of an employee to keep the Company informed of his correct home address and telephone number, if any, shall relieve the Company of the responsibility to provide work or make payment in lieu of such work as provided for in the provisions of the paragraph above.
SCHEDULE "B" HOURS OF WORK, OVERTIME, WAITING TIME, REPORTING
TIME, REST PERIODS AND SHIFT PEREMIUMS (cont'd)
An employee who has been absent from work for any reason and fails to advise the Company within (2U) twenty-four hours prior to his returning to work will not be allowed to work the shift if the Company has scheduled another employee to fill his position for that shift, nor will the employee involved be compensated under Article 10 (z>) Reporting Time.
5.	REST PERIODS: Employees will be allowed two ten minute rest periods during their shift. In departments where machine operations do not require the constant attention of operatives, the machines will remain running, and in the event a situation develops where a machine requires immediate attention to avoid faulty work or waste, the operator will be expected to interrupt her rest period and correct the situation, after which she will be allowed to resume her rest period. Piece Work rates have been constructed to include compensation for rest periods and there will be no loss of earnings for time workers.
6.	SHIFT PREMIUMS: A shift premium of 2(twenty-eight cents) per hour will be paid to employees on the second shift.
7.	A shift premium of 38£ (thirty-eitht cents) per hour will be paid to employees working on the third shift.
Article
11.01
11.02
11 HOLIDAYS
The following holidays shall be observed as paid statutory holidays; The day preceding New Year’s Day, New Year’s Day, Good Friday, Easter Monday, Victoria Day, Dominion Day, Civic Holiday, Labour Day, Thanksgiving Day, the day preceding Christmas Day, Christmas Day, Boxing Day, and Citizenship Day (for new Canadians).
Subject to the qualifications outlined in 11.03, employees will be paid for statutory holidays in the following manner
(a)	Timeworkers: At their regular rates of pay.
(b)	Pieceworkers: At their average incentive hourly earnings during the 4 weeks immediately proceding the week in which the holiday falls.
(c)	Team Pieceworkers - Automated Balling & Pull Skein Machine Operators, Packers, etc.; At their average incentive hourly earnings during the 4 weeks immediately preceding the week in which the holiday falls.
Article 11
11.03
11.04
11.05
11.06
(a)
(b)
11.07
(a)
(b)
11.08
(a)
HOLIDAYS (con t'd)
An employee will only be entitled to payment for these holidays if he or she has completed the probationary period and must attend for the declared working day immediately preceding the holiday and report back within 30 (thirty) minutes after the start of operations on the declared working day immediately following the holiday.
For the purpose of 11.03 an employee shall not be deemed absent from work when he or she is required by law for jury duty, court witness, reserve army training, nor when absent for sickness if verified by first aid, employee’s own supervisor or by doctor’s note, nor when temporarily laid-off provided the employee has been at work at any time during the five working days immediately preceding the holiday or has been recalled and reports for work within 30 (thirty) minutes after the start of operations on the declared working day immediately following the holiday.
Employees who are eligible for Sick Benefit payments based on supplying the Company with a medical certificate and employees who are in receipt of Sick Benefit payments will be paid for statutory holidays at the Sick Benefit rate only.
Where a holiday falls on a day when the plant is not normally operating (i.e. Saturday and Sunday) the plant will close the following Monday or preceding Friday at the Company’s option.
Employees normally required to work on a holiday can elect to take one or the other of the following options:
Be paid overtime rates of time and one-half and be allowed a day off with pay at a later date.
Forfeit the holiday and receive overtime rates of time and one-half for all hours worked plus a normal day’s pay in lieu of the holiday.
Employees who are not normally required to work on a holiday but who, due to an emergency or other unforeseen circumstances are required to do so, can elect to take one or the other of the following options.
Be paid the overtime rates of time and one-half and be allowed a day off with pay at a later date.
Forfeit the holiday and receive overtime rates of time and one-half for all hours worked plus a normal day’s pay in lieu of the holiday.
Where a holiday falls during an employee’s annual vacation period, such employee will be allowed to:
Add an extra day on to the end of their vacation period if agreeable to Management.
Article 11 HOLIDAYS (con t'd)
(b)	Be allowed a day off with pay at a date convenient to the Company, in lieu of the holiday.
11.09	Employees will be paid for a normal working shift of 8 hours with the following exceptions:
(a)	Employees who regularly work less than a normal working day will be paid for the hours regularly worked.
(b)	Employees who regularly work more than a normal working day will be paid for the hours regularly worked plus the overtime premium.
11.10	The above sections 11.06, 11.07, 11.08, and 11.09 apply only to employees who are qualified under 11,03.
Article 12 VACATION WITH PAY
12.01	(a) Annual vacations will be observed during the (2) two calendar weeks immediately preceding Civic Holiday and, with the exception of the Receiving, Iron Street Distribution Centre, Shade Card and Maintenance, all other departments will close down unless, in the opinion of the Company, it is deemed essential to continue certain operations, in whole or in part.
(b) In the event it is deemed essential to continue certain operations in departments which are normally closed down, operators will be recruited on a voluntary basis and those who work will take the vacation to which they are entitled under 12.03, at a time mutually convenient to the Company and the employee.
12.02	VACATION YEAR: In order to determine an employee’s gross
annual earnings as a basis from which to compute vacation pay, the vacation year will be the 52 (fifty-two) weeks ending with the Saturday nearest April 30.
12.03 (a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
(e)
(f)
(h)
Employees completing (1) one year’s continuous service as at the Saturday nearest April 30 will be eligible for (2) two weeks vacation and will be paid (k%) four per cent of their gross earnings for the vacation year.
Employees completing (5) five years but less than (11) eleven years’ continuous service at any time during the calendar year will be eligible for (3) three weeks vacation; (2) two weeks to be taken at the annual vacation period and (1) one week at a time mutually agreed by the Company and the employee and will be paid (6%) six per cent of their gross earnings for the vacation year.
Employees completing (11) eleven years but less than (12) twelve years’ continuous service at any time during the calendar year will be eligible for (3) three weeks vacation; (2) two weeks to be taken at the annual vacation period and (I) one week at a time mutually agreed by the Company and the employee and will be paid (7%) seven per cent of their gross earnings for the vacation year.
Employees completing (12) twelve years but less than (13) thirteen years’ continuous service at any time during the calendar year will be eligible for (4) four weeks vacation; (2) two weeks to be taken at the annual vacation period and (2) two weeks at a time mutually agreed by the Company and the employee and will be paid (8%) eight per cent of their gross earnings for the vacation year.
Employees completing (13) thirteen years but less than (18) eighteen years’ continuous service at any time during the calendar year will be eligible for (4) four weeks vacation; (2) two weeks to be taken at the annual vacation period and (2) two weeks at a time mutually agreed by the Company and the employee and will be paid (9%) nine per cent of their gross earnings for the vacation year.
Employees completing (18) eighteen years but less than (21) twenty-one years’ continuous service at any time during the calendar year will be eligible for (4) four weeks vacation; (2) two weeks to be taken at the annual vacation period and (2) two weeks at a time mutually agreed by the Company and the employee and will be paid (10%) ten per cent of their gross earnings for the vacation year.
Employees completing (21) twenty-one years or more continuous service at any time during the calendar year will be eligible for (3) five weeks vacation, (2) two weeks to be taken at the annual vacation period and (3) three weeks at a time mutually agreed by the Company and the employee and will be paid (10%) ten per cent of their gross earnings for the vacation year.
Notwithstanding 12.03 (b), (c), (d), (e), (I), and (g), employees who have not taken their vacations at a time mutually agreed by the Company and the employee by January 31st of a vacation year may be asked by the Company to take their remaining vacations at a time suitable to the Company. The Company will not unreasonably force employees to take their vacation.
12.04
12.05
12.06
(d)	Employees with less than 1 (one) year of continuous service with the Company whose employment is terminated during the vacation year will receive vacation pay for that portion of the vacation year worked in accordance with the Employment Standard Act as revised.
(b) Employees with 1 (one) or more year’s continuous service with the Company whose employment is terminated during the vacation year will receive vacation pay for that portion of the year so worked, in accordance with the applicable percentage referred to in (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (f) or (g) of Section 12.03.
In the case of employees who have lost time during the vacation year due to an injury or occupational disease covered by the Workers’ Compensation Act, one and one-third times the actual wages paid by the Company during the vacation year will be used to provide the gross earnings figure to calculate the percentage for vacation purposes.
Where any provision contained in paragraph 12.03 and 12.04 is found to provide for vacation credits which fall short of the statutory requirements set forth in the Employment Standard Act 1974, then the vacation credits provided by the Act shall apply.
NOTE: All vacation pay to be given at time of shut down, upon request.
Article 13
SENIORITY
13.01
13.02
Separate Seniority shall be established for each of the following departments or occupational groups.
Top Stock Department Drawing Department Spinning Department Twisting Department Reeling Department
Dyehouse Department, Kettle Operators
Dyehouse Department, Drying Operators, Extracting, Material Handling
Finishing Department, Winding Section Finishing Department, Yarn Printing Machine Finishing Department, Pull Skein Machine Section Finishing Department, Machine Run and Pack Finishing Department, Brushing Machine Finishing Department, Superba Machine Finishing Department, Pull Skein Accumulator Section Finishing Department, Overprinting
Finishing Department, Pack & Fabel Ball & Pull Skein Section Finishing Department, General (Jobbers, Clerical, Asst. to Supervisor)
Finishing Department, Balling Accumulator Section
Inspection Department
Iron Street Distribution Centre
Roselawn Ave. Bulk/Pack/Receiving
Shade Card Department
Maintenance Gen. Services, Machinery Maintenance & Carpenters
All employees shall be considered probationary for the first (2) two consecutive months of their employment and shall have no seniority rights during this period. After such period they shall be considered regular employees and their seniority shall commence from the date of last hiring.
An extension of the probationary period may be granted at the discretion of the Company subject to agreement of the Union, each case being treated on an individual basis.
13.03
(a)
(b)
(c)
Notwithstanding Article 13.02 those employees who are hired to meet temporary requirements will be termed as temporary and will not be retained beyond 59 days.
It is recognized by both parties that the use of temporary employees is essential to meet manning needs created by short-run production and technology changes, vacation, leave of absence and other emergency situations, as well as to reduce the need for the lay-off of full-time employees. The following points summarize our understanding on temporary employees:
If there are people on lay-off who are capable of doing the respective work, and the work is scheduled to exceed one week, they will first be offered temporary work before other individuals are approached. Unless the temporary work is on their previous job, an individual’s refusal to accept temporary work will not affect their recall rights.
Individuals on temporary jobs are not eligible to sign job postings.
Temporary jobs will not normally exceed fifty-nine (59) days. If the job exceeds that time, a meeting will be held with the Union President to discuss the anticipated extent to which the job will continue and whether it will become a permanent job. All extensions beyond 59 days must be approved by the Union.
13.04
13.05
When an employee is transferred from one department to another department his seniority will remain in his previous department for a period of ninety days, after which time his seniority will be transferred to the new department.
Where an employee who has been classified as part-time as stated in Article 2.01 becomes a full time employee, all seniority and eligibility for benefits except for vacation entitlement and statutory holidays entitlement, will commence on the day he was hired on a full time basis.
(a)	In the case of lay-offs for the purpose of reducing the work force, seniority shall be the deciding factor and the last regular employee hired shall be the first laid-off and similarly the last regular employee laid-off shall be the first re-hired provided those who remain on account of seniority are capable, willing, available and fully qualified in respect to skill, compentence and efficiency to satisfactorily perform without further training whatever work is available in the department concerned. Satisfactory performance shall be defined as being not less than the average for experienced workers in the department or occupational group.
(b)	The Company will not, however, be obliged to adhere to this procedure when laying off employees for a period of up to one complete shift because of a temporary lack of work occurring at irregular intervals. If, however, the foregoing should occur at regular intervals to avoid a reduction in the work force, the terms in the foregoing (a) shall apply.
(c)	The Company will not excercise the right stated in (a) above to depart from stict seniority when a reduction in the work force becomes necessary, unless the employee or employees who do not measure up to “Satisfactory Performance” have first had a warning in writing at lease two weeks prior to the start of the reduction in the work force and they may be laid-off out of seniority unless there is a substantial improvement in their work performance and that the improvement is sustained.
Article 13 (d)
(i)
01)
13.06
13.07
13.08
13.09
SENIORITY (con t'd)
In the event of a serious and permanent reduction of the work force in an individual department or occupational group becomes necessary and there is little likelihood of employees affected being recalled to the department or occupational group concerned, the following privileges will apply only in respect to employees who have had 6 (six) or more continuous years’ of service with the Company.
Notwithstanding the separate department or occupational group seniority provided in Section 13.01 of this Article, an employee having (6) six or more years’ continuous service, who is affected by the aforementioned reduction, may exercise his plant seniority to displace the least senior employee who has less plant seniority in another department or occupational group. Furthermore, the Company will undertake to train such employee for a period of time and at the remuneration specified below:-
Transfer to Time-Rated Classification: An employee exercising his plant seniority in a time-rated classification will be allowed a two month training period and will be paid at the learning rate or the low of the range for the particular job classification to which a transfer has been arranged.
Transfer to an Individual Piece Work Operation: An employee exercising his plant seniority in an individual piece work operation will be allowed a two month training period and will be paid at the learning rate for the individual piece work operation to which a transfer has been arranged.
In hiring new employees, preference shall, subject to the same conditions respecting skill, competence and efficiency as in 13.03, be given to those former employees who have had previous service with the Company and who have applications for re-employment on file, providing they are physically fit and were not discharged for cause. This however, shall not in any way limit the Company’s right to employ technically trained or specially skilled workers.
In making promotions within the Bargaining Unit, preference shall, subject to same conditions respecting skill, competence and efficiency as in 13.03 be given to employees having the longest service.
Promotions to supervisory positions shall not be subject to the provisions of this Agreement.
In the event that an employee within the bargaining unit is promoted to a supervisory or confidential position beyond the scope of this agreement, he shall have from the date of promotion, six (6) months to determine whether he wishes to return to the bargaining unit or not. In the event that he does not return to the bargaining unit within this six month period he shall lose all his seniority he had attained while he was in the bargaining unit.
Article 13
13.10
13.11
13.12
13.13 (a)
(b)
13.14
13.15
(a)
(b)
SENIORITY (cont'd)
When a permanent and major change in duties and job location becomes necessary effecting one or more, but not all employees within a department or occupational group, the employees with the highest seniority shall be given the first opportunity to accept or decline such change.
The Company agrees to post and circulate notice of any opening or a new or vacant occupation for a period of (2) two working days. Employees with sufficient skill, competance and efficiency may make application through their supervisor and seniority will govern where other factors are relatively equal.
It is understood that in the event of a job posting on new equipment, opportunity will be given to existing employees to train on such machines before new employees are hired, provided the existing employees have the skill and ability to operate the new equipment. Seniority will govern where other factors are relatively equal.
Skill, competence and efficiency shall be determined by the Management and should an orientation or adjustment period be necessary, this will be paid at the learning rate.
In the event the job should prove unsatisfactory to the employee concerned, any right to return to the job from which the transfer was made, or any other job, will be at the sole discretion of the Management.
The necessary employment of personnel on days on which the plant would normally be closed shall be by seniority, subject to ability to perform the work.
Seniority lists showing each employee’s seniority standing shall be posted by the Company on the departmental notice boards. After these lists have remained posted for a period of two weeks they shall be deemed to be correct and become final except in the case of any employee who files a written protest with his supervisor within the said two week period concerning the incorrectness of his seniority date which shall be subject to adjustment if it is proved to be incorrect.
Seniority lists shall be brought up to date every six months and copies of these lists will be made available to the Union.
Employees in the classification “Lead Hand” will be so designated on the Seniority Lists.
Seniority shall be lost if the employee:
Voluntarily leaves the employee of the Company.
Is justifiably discharged.
Article 13
(c)
(d)
(e) (I)
13.16
(a)
(b)
(c)
SENIORITY (cont'd)
Is absent without leave or due notice for a period greater than (5) working days.
After lay-off fails to report for work within (1) one week after recall unless other arrangements have been made with the Company.
Seniority will be lost if lay-off exceeds the time limits stated in 13.16 (a) or (b).
Fails to return to work on the regular shift immediately following the expiration of the leave of absence, as described in 14.01, unless the employee both notifies the company prior to the expiration of the Leave of Absence and also provides the company with proof of the employee’s attempt to return to work as scheduled.
Works elsewhere while on Leave of Absence without written permission from the company to do such work.
Recall after lay-off.
An employee with less than one (1) year of seniority shall have recall rights equal to his length of seniority.
An employee with more than one (I) year of seniority shall be entitled to recall up to twelve (12) months from date of lay-off.
Recall will be based on seniority and advice of recall will be confirmed via registered mail to the employee involved.
Should the most senior employee not be available at time of recall, the next senior employee will be contacted.
However, if the most senior employee becomes available for work, he will displace the last senior employee recalled.
Article
14.01
14.02
14.0 3
14.04
14.05
14.06
14 LEAVE OF ABSENCE
The Company may grant Leave of Absence for legitimate personal reasons. Any Leave of Absence will be in writing and no such leave will affect an employee’s seniority rights when used for the purpose granted, provided the employee returns to work on the regular shift immediately following the expiration of the Leave of Absence.
Any statutory holiday or statutory holidays which might fall during a leave of absence as mentioned in 14.01 above, will not be paid for nor compensated for in any manner whatsoever, and when leave of absence is granted for the declared working day immediately preceding a statutory holiday and when granted for the declared working day immediately following a statutory holiday the provisions of 11.03 will apply.
The Company will grant Leave of Absence to the President of the Local, and for two other delegate Union members provided they are not from the same occupational group, to attend Union conventions, conferences and educational seminars, provided that the Company is notified at least (10) ten working days in advance of any such requested leaves and in the opinion of the Company the employees concerned can be spared from their work. The leaves will be granted to a maximum of (15) fifteen working days without pay for the President of the Local, and to a total of (15) fifteen working days without pay for the other delegate Union members. Such Leaves of Absence will be exempt from provisions of 14.02 and will not therefore be considered absence for the purpose of 11.03.
The Company will grant leave of absence to an employee called for Jury Duty and the Company will compensate such employee for any loss in earnings to the extent of the difference between Jury Duty remuneration and his normal earnings.
The Company will grant leave of absence with pay to an employee suffering a bereavement in his immediate family. Such leave of absence shall be granted for a reasonable mourning period and the funeral but shall in no event be for a period of more than (3) three working days. Immediate family shall be defined as - Father,
Mother, Husband, Wife, Children, Brothers, Sisters, Grandchildren, and Grandparents.
The Company will grant leave of absence with pay to an employee whose spouse has suffered a bereavement of their Mother or Father and such leave of absence shall be granted for the day of the funeral only.
Article
14.07
14 LEAVE OF ABSENCE (cont'tf)
Maternity Leave: When a participating employee is absent from work for a maternity leave the Company will pay the following premiums up to a maximum period of seventeen (17) weeks;
1.	Drug Plan
2.	Dental Plan
3.	Life Insurance
4.	Vision Care
Article
15.01
15.02
Article
16.01
16.02
16.03
T5 STRIKES AND LOCKOUTS
There shall be no lockout by the Company, or strike, slow-down or suspension of work, either complete or partial by the employees, nor any limitations or restrictions placed upon the individual working efforts of the employees, during the life of this Agreement.
In the event of any controversy or dispute between the Company and any other outside group or any organization of its employees, the Union and the employees who come within the scope of this Agreement agree that they will continue to perform their duties irrespective of any such controversy or dispute with any other groups or organizations. In the case of violation of this clause by an individual or individuals, the Union agrees that an effort will be made to rectify the situation.
16 NO DISCRIMINATION OR INTIMIDATION
It is agreed that there shall be no discrimination, coercion or intimidation by the Company, the Union, or its officers or members against any employee because of his activity or lack of activity, his membership or non-membership in any labour organization.
It is further agreed that there shall be no solicitation of members, collection of dues or other Union activities on the premises of the Company during working hours except as permitted by this Agreement. It is understood that no meeting of the Union or its members shall be held on the premises of the Company at any time without the prior written approval of the Company.
An employee who violates any of the provisions of this article may be appropriately delt with by the Company under the provisions of Article 3.
Article
17.01
17.02
17.03
17.0*1
17 DEDUCTION OF UNION DUES AND MAINTENANCE OR MEMBERSHIP
The Company will, upon the receipt of authorization cards signed by an employee, deduct from his pay each month the sum specified by the Union as being the amount of Union dues, or inform such employee that the amount specified by the Union as his monthly dues be deducted from his pay. The first such deduction to be made after (4) four clear weeks, to be the initiation fee payable to the Local’s Financial Secretary. Subsequent deductions to be remitted by cheque to the Central Ontario Regional Office prior to the end of the month in which the deduction is made.
Employees hired on a temporary basis will not be required to sign a Union card but will be required to pay the Local’s Financial Secretary the equivalent of one month’s Union dues after (U) four clear weeks. This will be deemed to be the Local Initiation Fee.
The Company, at the time of making each remittance to the Union, will supply a statement showing the name of each employee from whose pay such deduction has been made.
The Company agrees that it shall be a condition of employment that an employee who at the date of this Agreement is a member of the Union in good standing, or who becomes a member after that date, shall maintain such membership during the life of this Agreement.
An individual employee, to whom 17.03 applies, may notify the Company and the Union, in writing, at any time during the two weeks preceding the expiration of this agreement of his intention to resign from membership in the Union. If in the opinion of the Company and the Union there is sound evidence to justify such a resignation, it shall become effective on the expiration date of this agreement and his employment shall not thereby be affected. However the provisions of 17.01 shall apply.
Such agreement will not be unreasonably withheld unless the reasons given for resignation is that the individual employee,
1)	was or is a member of another Trade Union;
2)	has engaged in activity against the Trade Union or on behalf of another trade union;
3)	has engaged in unreasonable dissent within the Trade Union.
Article
18.01
18.02
18.03
18 BULLETIN BOARDS
The Company agrees to extend to the Union the privilege of using all bulletin boards to be located in the mill in locations designated by the Company, provided that the use of such bulletin boards shall be restricted to the posting thereon only of such notices as have been signed by the President or other authorized signing officer of the Union and have received prior approval of the Company through the Personnel Manager.
The following types of notices may be posted.
Notices of Union recreational and social affairs.
Notices of Union elections, results of elections and Union appointments, and
Notices of Union meetings or of any other similar business of the Union.
The Union agrees that no pamphlets, handbills or other publications will be distributed on the premises of the Company without the prior approval of the Management.
Article
19.01
19.02
19.03
19.04
19 WELFARE & SAFETY
In the interest of Safety and Accident Prevention the Company will pay ninety per cent (90%) of the employee cost of safety shoes up to a maximum of sixty ($60.00) dollars for one pair per year for each employee upon receipt of invoice.
Each new employee hired will be obliged to purchase a pair of safety shoes and reimbursement will be made in accordance with Article 19.01 upon completion of his probationary period.
The Company will provide the choice of one or two piece uniforms to Maintenance employees engaged in machinery maintenance and shops on the basis of two (2) pairs per year.
New employees hired will be issued their choice of one or two piece uniforms upon completion of their probationary period.
(a)	The Company and the Union are in complete agreement with the Safety Rules and Regulations of The Department of Labour for the Province of Ontario, as provided for in the Occupational Health and Safety Act 1980 and will work together in the interest of Safety and Accident Prevention.
(b)	The Company will agree to the election of a Safety Committee of not more than four members of the Local Union who shall be part of any plant Safety Committee.
19.05 (a) When a participating employee is absent from work for leave of
absence, lack of work or any other reason not described in 19.05 (b) or (c) below for a period in excess of two months, the Company will pay the premiums for Drug Plan, Dental Plan, Life Insurance and Vision Care for those two months after which time the Company may at its own discretion, select one or other of the following options:
(1) Continue to pay the premiums and recover the appropriate amount by payroll deduction on the employee’s return to work,
or
(2) Offer the employee the opportunity to pay the company directly at current premium rates and the company will maintain coverage.
(b)	When a participating employee is absent from work due to sickness or non work related accidents, the Company will maintain the following premiums up to a maximum of four (4) months;
1.	Drug Plan
2.	Dental Plan
3.	Life Insurance
4.	Vision Care
After four (4) months the company may at its own discretion select one of the two options outlined in 19.05 (a) above.
(c)	When a participating employee is absent from work due to a work related accident, the Company will maintain the following premiums as required under the Workers’ Compensation Act (Bill 162);
1.	Drug Plan
2.	Dental Plan
3.	Life Insurance
4.	Vision Care
19.06 (a) Sick Benefit: The Company agrees to provide weekly benefits under the Patons & Baldwins Canada Inc. Sick Benefit Fund in the amount of $43.00 per day per person. Employees shall become eligible to make a claim under the plan after completing six months continuous service with the Company.
(b) Upon completion of two (2) working days of disability, an employee will receive forty-three ($43.00) dollars per normal working day retroactive to the first day of disability up to the tenth working day when Unemployment Insurance Benefits normally take effect, provided the employee provides the Company with a medical certificate.
Article 19 19.07
WELFARE & SAFETY (cont'd)
Attendance Bonus: Commencing April 1, 1982 each employee, who is not *late or absent for any reason other than **lack of work or short term lay-off, earned vacation entitlement, statutory holidays, jury duty or bereavement up to the maximum number of days allowed, will receive a perfect attendance bonus based on the following:
1.	Upon	completion	of three (3) months	$23.00
2.	Upon	completion	of six (6) months	$50.00
3.	Upon	completion	of nine (9) months	$50.00
4.	Upon	completion	of twelve (12) months	$75.00
*Perfect attendance will mean all regular starting and stopping times have been adhered to.
**Lack of work or short term lay-off will be understood to mean a period that does not exceed ten (10) consecutive working days at any one time.
Should an employee fail to qualify in any quarterly period, as published, he will be allowed to re-qualify for a three month perfect attendance bonus commencing with the following quarter.
When twelve (12) months perfect attendance has been attained by an employee he will be eligible to start the perfect attendance program over again.
19.08 (a) Drug Plan
The Company will maintain the premiums for a prescribed Drug Plan for all eligible employees.
Premiums for the plan will be paid for by the company on behalf of all eligible employees.
An eligible employee is defined as an employee who has completed his probationary period and whose spouse’s Drug Plan, if any, is less advantageous.
Temporary employees will not be eligible for coverage.
*Coverage under the Plan will be based on a deductible charge of $25.00 per year for a single employee and $50.00 per year for a married employee with or without children, and 90% reimbursement to the employee for allowable costs over and above the deductible amounts.
(b)	Prescription Glasses
The Company agrees to assume the cost of prescription glasses for employees and their immediate family, being spouse and children, as follows: One (1) pair every twenty-four (2k) months, no deductible to a maximum of one hundred (100) dollars.
(c)	Dental Plan
The Company will maintain the premiums for a prescribed Dental Plan for all eligible employees.
Premiums for the plan will be paid for by the company on behalf of all eligible employees.
An eligible employee is defined as an employee who has completed his probationary period and whose spouse’s Dental Plan, if any, is less advantageous.
Temporary employees will not be eligible for coverage.
* Coverage under the Plan will be based on a deductible charge of $25.00 per year for a single employee and $50.00 per year for a married employee with or without children, and 100% reimbursement to the employee for allowable costs over and above the deductible amounts.
Schedule of fees:	Based on the previous year O.D.A.
19.09
The Company will supply one parka jacket per year to Utility Persons and to the two Material Handlers in the Roselawn Ave. Bulk Pack/Receiving Dept., one jacket also te be available in the Dyehouse and one in Top Stock.
In addition, Utility Persons will be given rubber boots and protective clothing for cleaning around Dyehouse kettles.
One parka jacket or vest will be provided to each of the Iron Street truck drivers.
Article
20.01
20.02
20.03
20 DURATION OF AGREEMENT
This Agreement shall continue in effect from the 1st day_of_ May J_990 to the 30th day of April 1992 and shall continue automatically thereafter for periods of two years, unless either party notifies the other, in writing, within the period of two months preceding the expiration date of this Agreement that it desires to amend or terminate it.
Negotiations shall begin within twenty-one days following notification for amendment as provided in the preceding paragraph.
If, purssuant to such negotiations, an agreement is not reached on the renewal or amendment of this Agreement prior to the expiration date, it shall expire unless it is extended for a specific period by mutual agreement of the parties.
Article 20 DURATION OF AGREEMENT (con t't)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF each of the parties hereto has caused this Agreement to be signed by their duly authorized representatives this 3rd day of October, 1990.
For PATONS & BALDWINS	For AMALGAMATED CLOTHING Ec
CANADA INCTEXTILE WORKERS UNION,
LOCAL 2536
D. A. Staveley President
H. Aitcheson President
S.	Morra
Personnel Manager
D. Segovia Vice President
T. Wilson
V. P. Manufacturing
I. Caravella Chief Shop Steward
N. Miller
Financial Secretary
W. Charters Business Agent
MAINTENANCE
DEPARTMENT&
CLASSIFICATION
Skilled Trades
Asst. Mechanic // I
Mechanic #2
Mechanic/Electro Mechanic //3
Mechanic/Electro Mechanic #4
Electromechanic #5
Assistant Carpenter
Carpenter
Group Leader
General
Helper
Tradespersons’
Apprentices
Office Cleaners
Factory Janitor
Labourer
Utility Person
GENERAL CLASSIFICATIONS SCHEDULE “A” TIME RATED CLASSIFICATIONS EFFECTIVE APRIL 29, 1990
RATE
2 MONTHS 6 MONTHS ONE YEAR
i0.9.5 per hr. 12.14 per hr.
12.89 per hr.
11.12	per hr. 12 31 per hr.
13.12	per hr.
11.27 per hr. 12.45 per hr.
13.33 per hr.
11.47 per hr.
14.52 per hr. 14.65 per hr. To be established 10.84 per hr. 11.32 per hr. 12.55 per hr. 12.65 per hr. 50£ per hour over category
15.52 per hr.
11.47 per hr.
12.73 per hr. 12.89 per hr. 75<£ per hour over category
9.20	per	hr.	9.32	per	hr.
9.95	per	hr.			
9.20	per	hr.			
9.38	per	hr.	9.67	per	hr.
9.20	per	hr.	9.34	per	hr.
9.95	per	hr.	10.07	per	hr.
9.45 per hr. 9.56 per hr. 10.07 per hr.
9.44 per hr. 9.49 per hr.
ADVANCED
12.61 per hr. 14.36 per hr. 16.00 per hr.
IRON STREET DISTRIBUTION CENTRE
SCHEDULE “A” TIME RATED CLASSIFICATIONS EFFECTIVE APRIL 29, 1990
CLASSIFICATION
Low
2 Months
6 Months
1 Year
Trainee
Material Handler
Shipping/Receiving
Co-ordinator
Raymond Operator
Truck Driver
Order Filler
Order Processor
Warehouse Janitor/General
Distribution Assistant
Holland Van Driver
9.20	per hr.
9.45	per hr.
10.62	per hr.
10.08	per hr.
10.08	per hr.
9.45	per hr.
9.74	per hr.
9.45	per hr.
9.74	per hr.
11.27	per hr.
9.62	per hr.
10.82 per hr.
10.28	per hr.
10.28	per hr.
9.62	per hr.
9.62	per hr.
11.47 per hr.
9.27 per hr.
9.74	per hr.
10.99	per hr.
10.55	per hr.
10.55	per hr.
9.82 per hr.
11.99	per hr.
9.38 per hr.
9.82	per hr.
(licenced)
9.82	per hr. 10.00 per hr.
9.82	per hr.
SHADE CARD DEPARTMENT
CLASSIFICATION Shade Card Maker
SCHEDULE “A” TIME RATED CLASSIFICATIONS EFFECTIVE APRIL 29, 1990
Low
2 Months	6 Months
9.20 per hr. 9.30 per hr. 9.38 per hr.
INSPECTION DEPARTMENT
SCHEDULE "A" TIME RATED CLASSIFICATIONS EFFECTIVE APRIL 29, 1990
CLASSIFICATION	RATE
Beginners & Learners	9.20 per hr.
Low	2 Months	6 Months	I Year
Yarn Inspector		9.48 per hr.		
Material Handler	9..55 per hr.			9.81 per hr.
Knitting Machine Operator	9.20 per hr.		9.34 per hr.	9.44 per hr.
CLASSIFICATION
Beginners & Learners Receiving Clerk Bulk Packer Elevator Operator
ROSELAWN BULK PACK/RECEIVING SCHEDULE “A” TIME RATED CLASSIFICATIONS EFFECTIVE APRIL 29, 1990
Low
9.20 per hr. 9.-59 per hr. 9.74 per hr. 9.44 per hr.
2 Months
9.68 per hr.
6 Months
9.27 per hr. 9.75 per hr.
9.56 per hr.
-1 Year
9.38 per hr. 9.86 per hr. 9.82 per hr. 9.69 per hr.
FINISHING DEPARTMENT
SCHEDULE “A” TIME RATED CLASSIFICATIONS EFFECTIVE APRIL 29, 1990
CLASSIFICATION	RATE
Beginners & Learners General
Assistant to Supervisor Over-printing Bags & Labels Over-printing Bags & Labels Lead Hand
Over-printing Bags & Labels Co-ordinator Batch & Waste Control Pack & Label Staff Supervisor Coned Yarn Weigher Brushing Machine Operator Winding Machine Operator Balling Machine Operator Pull Skein Machine Operator P & L Ball Yarn/Pull Skein Superba Machine Operator Clerical
Obsolescence Control Run & Pack 5 Spdl Mach. Op. Balling Accumulator Section Pull Skein Accumulator Section SWA Yarn Printing Automated Machine Non-incentive Rate
9.20	per hr.
9.38	per hr.
Low	2 Months
9.41	per hr.
9.20	per hr.
9.60 per hr.
9.69	per hr. 9.37 per hr.
9.69	per hr.
9.26 per hr.
Piece Work Piece Work Piece Work Piece Work Piece Work
9.20	per hr.
9.80	per hr.
9.20	per hr.
Piece Work Piece Work Piece Work
6 Months	1 Year
9.49	per	hr.	9.68 per	hr.
9.52 per	hr.
9.31	per	hr.	9.37 per	hr.
9.52 per hr.
9.74	per	hr.	9.82 per	hr.
per hr
9.52/Piece Work
9.62 per hr. “Accumulator” Allow. 10£
DYEHOUSE DEPARTMENT SCHEDULE “A” TIME RATED CLASSIFICATIONS EFFECTIVE APRIL 29, 1990
CLASSIFICATION	Low	2 Months	6 Months	1 Year
Material Handler	9..55 per hr.	9.81 per hr.		
Dryer Operator	9.55 per hr.	9.81 per hr.		
Extractor Operator	9.55 per hr.	9.81 per hr.		
Drug Room Clerk	10.04 per hr.	10.12 per hr.		10.21 per hr.
Kettle Operator	10.01 per hr.			10.10 per hr.
REELING DEPARTMENT
SCHEDULE “A” TIME RATED CLASSIFICATIONS EFFECTIVE APRIL 29, 1990
CLASSIFICATION
Beginners & Learners General
Assistant to Supervisor
Undyed Yarn Stock Handlers
Clerical
Reeling Machine Operator Assistant Warehouse Person Warehouse Person
RATE
9.20	per hr.
9.38	per hr.
Low	2 Months
9.41	per hr.
9.44 per hr.
9.80	per hr. Piece Work
9.20	per hr.
9.63 per hr. 9.71 per hr.
6 Months	1 Year
9.49	per	hr.	9.68	per	hr.
9.47 per	hr.	9.55	per	hr.
9.29 per	hr.	9.36	per	hr.
9.82	per	hr.
TWISTING DEPARTMENT
CLASSIFICATION
Beginners & Learners General
SCHEDULE "A" TIME RATED CLASSIFICATIONS EFFECTIVE APRIL 29, 1990
RATE
9.20 per hr. 9.38 per hr.
Low	2 Months	6 Months	1 Year
9.41 per hr.		9.49 per hr.	9.68 per hr.
Assistant to Supervisor Twisting Machine Operator
Piece Work
SPINNING DEPARTMENT
SCHEDULE “A” TIME RATED CLASSIFICATIONS EFFECTIVE APRIL 29, 1990
CLASSIFICATION	RATE
Beginners & Learners General
Assistant to Supervisor Doffer
Clerical Draw/Spin/Twist Spinning Machine Operator
9.20	per hr.
9.38	per hr.
Low	2 Months
9.41	per hr.
9.68	per hr.
9.80	per hr.
9.68	per hr.
6 Months	1 Year
9.49 per hr.	9.68 per hr.
DRAWING DEPARTMENT
SCHEDULE “A” TIME RATED CLASSIFICATIONS
EFFECTIVE APRIL 29, 1990
CLASSIFICATION
Beginners & Learners General
Assistant to Supervisor Pin Drafter Operator Rovematic Operator Draw/Spin Operator Converter Operator Converting Supply Operator Machine Oiler/Cleaner
RATE
9.20 per hr. 9.38 per hr.
Low
9.41 per hr.
2 Months
9.57 per hr.
9.68	per hr.
9.68	per hr.
9.68	per hr.
9.68	per hr.
9.68	per hr. 10.07 per hr.
6 Months
1 Year
9.49 per hr. 9.68 per hr.
10.57 per hr. 10.95 per hr.
CLASSIFICATION Beginners & Learners
Assistant Warehouse Person
Warehouse Person
Warehouse Person Lead Hand
TOP STOCK DEPARTMENT SCHEDULE “A” TIME RATED CLASSIFICATIONS EFFECTIVE APRIL 29, 1990
RATE
9.20 per hr.			
Low	2 Months	6 Months	i Year
9.20 per hr.		9.29 per hr.	9.36 per hr.
9.63 per hr.	9.71 per hr.		9.82 per hr.
9.76 per hr.	9.82 per hr.		
TOP STOCK DEPARTMENT
CLASSIFICATION Beginners & Learners
Assistant Warehouse Person
Warehouse Person
Warehouse Person Lead Hand
SCHEDULE “A” TIME RATED CLASSIFICATIONS EFFECTIVE APRIL 28, 1991
RATE
9.70 per hr.
Low	2 Months	6 Months	1 Year
9.70 per hr.		9.79 per hr.	9.86 per hr.
10.13 per hr.	10.21 per hr.		10.32 per hr.
10.26 per hr.	10.32 per hr.		
DRAWING DEPARTMENT
SCHEDULE “A” TIME RATED CLASSIFICATIONS
CLASSIFICATION
Beginners & Learners General
Assistant to Supervisor Pin Drafter Operator Rovematic Operator Draw/Spin Operator Converter Operator Converting Supply Operator Machine Oiler/Cleaner
EFFECTIVE APRIL 28, 1991
RATE
9.70	per hr.
9.88	per hr.
Low	2 Months
9.91 per hr.
10.18	per hr.
10.18	per hr.
10.18	per hr.
10.18	per hr.
10.18	per hr. 10.07 per hr. 10.57 per hr.
6 Months	1 Year
9.99 per hr. 10.18 per hr.
11.02 per hr. 11.45 per hr.
SPINNING DEPARTMENT
SCHEDULE “A” TIME RATED CLASSIFICATIONS EFFECTIVE APRIL 28, 1991
CLASSIFICATION	RATE
Beginners & Learners	9.70 per hr.		
General	9.88 per hr.		
	Low	2 Months 6 Months	1 Year
Assistant to Supervisor	9.91 per hr.	9.99 per hr.	10.18 per hr.
Doffer		10.18 per hr.	
Clerical Draw/Spin/Twist		10.30 per hr.	
Spinning Machine Operator		10.18 per hr.	
TWISTING DEPARTMENT
SCHEDULE “A” TIME RATED CLASSIFICATIONS EFFECTIVE APRIL 28, 1991
CLASSIFICATION	RATE
Beginners & Learners General
Assistant to Supervisor	9.91 per hr.	9.99 per hr. 10.18 per hr.
Twisting Machine Operator	Piece Work
9.70	per hr.
9.88	per hr.
Low	2 Months	6 Months	1 Year
REELING DEPARTMENT
SCHEDULE “A” TIME RATED CLASSIFICATIONS EFFECTIVE APRIL 28, 1991
CLASSIFICATION
Beginners & Learners General
Assistant to Supervisor
Undyed Yarn Stock Handlers
Clerical
Reeling Machine Operator Assistant Warehouse Person Warehouse Person
RATE
9.70	per hr.
9.88	per hr.
Low	2 Months
9.91 per hr.
9.94	per hr.
10.30 per hr. Piece Work
9.70	per hr.
10.13 per hr.	10.21 per hr.
6 Months	1 Year
9.99 per hr.	10.18 per hr.
9.97 per hr. 10.03 per hr.
9.79 per hr.	9.86 per hr.
10.32 per hr.
DYEHOUSE DEPARTMENT
SCHEDULE "AM TIME RATED CLASSIFICATIONS EFFECTIVE APRIL 28, 1991
CLASSIFICATION	Low			2 Months			6 Months	1 Year	
Material Handler	ITA O O	per	hr.	10.31	per	hr.			
Dryer Operator	U"\ O O	per	hr.	10.31	per	hr.			
Extractor Operator	10.05	per	hr.	10.31	per	hr.			
Drug Room Clerk	10.54	per	hr.	10.62	per	hr.		10.71 per	hr.
Kettle Operator	10.51	per	hr.					10.60 per	hr.
FINISHING DEPARTMENT
SCHEDULE "A" TIME RATED CLASSIFICATIONS EFFECTIVE APRIL 28, 1991
CLASSIFICATION	RATE
Beginners & Learners	9.70 per hr.
General	9.88 per hr.
	Low
Assistant to Supervisor	9.91 per hr.
Over-printing Bags & Labels	9.70 per hr.
Over-printing Bags & Labels Lead Hand
Over-printing Bags & Labels
Co-ordinator
Batch & Waste Control
Pack & Label Staff Supervisor
Coned Yarn Weigher	9.76 per hr.
Brushing Machine Operator
Winding Machine Operator
Balling Machine Operator
Pull Skein Machine Operator
P & L Ball Yarn/Pull Skein
Superba Machine Operator	9.70 per hr.
Clerical
Obsolescence Control	9.70 per hr.
Run & Pack 5 Spdl Mach. Op.
Balling Accumulator Section Pull Skein Accumulator Section SWA Yarn Printing Automated Machine Non-incentive Rate
2 Months	6 Months	1 Year
9.99 per hr. 10.18 per hr.
10.02	per hr.
10.10 per hr.
10.19	per hr.
9.87 per hr.
10.19	per hr.
9.81	per hr.
Piece Work Piece Work Piece Work Piece Work Piece Work
10.02	per hr
10.30 per hr.
10.24	per hr
Piece Work Piece Work Piece Work 1 0.02/Piece Work
10.12	per hr. “Accumulator” Allow. 10£ per hr.
9.87 per hr.
10.32 per hr.
CLASSIFICATION
Beginners & Learners Receiving Clerk Bulk Packer Elevator Operator
ROSELAWN BULK PACK/RECEIVING SCHEDULE “A” TIME RATED CLASSIFICATIONS EFFECTIVE APRIL 28, 1991
Low
9.70 per hr. 10.09 per hr. 10.24 per hr. 9.94 per hr.
2 Months
10.18 per hr.
6 Months
9.77 per hr. 10.25 per hr.
10.06 per hr.
1 Year
9.88 per hr. 10.36 per hr. 10.32 per hr. 10.19 per hr.
INSPECTION DEPARTMENT
SCHEDULE “A” TIME RATED CLASSIFICATIONS EFFECTIVE APRIL 28. 1991
CLASSIFICATION	RATE
Beginners & Learners
Yarn Inspector
Material Handler
Knitting Machine Operator
9.70	per hr.
Low	2 Months
9.98 per hr.
10.05 per hr.
9.70	per hr.
6 Months	1 Year
10.31	per hr. 9.84 per hr.	9.94 per hr.
SHADE CARD DEPARTMENT
SCHEDULE “A” TIME RATED CLASSIFICATIONS EFFECTIVE APRIL 28, 1991
CLASSIFICATION	Low	2 Months	6 Months
Shade Card Maker	9.70 per hr.	9.80 per hr.	9.88 per hr.
IRON STREET DISTRIBUTION CENTRE
SCHEDULE “A” TIME RATED CLASSIFICATIONS EFFECTIVE APRIL 28, 1991
CLASSIFICATION
Low
2 Months	6 Months
1 Year
Trainee
Material Handler
Shipping/Receiving
Co-ordinator
Raymond Operator
Truck Driver
Order Filler
Order Processor
Warehouse Janitor/General
Distribution Assistant
Holland Van Driver
9.77 per hr. 9.88 per hr. 10.24 per hr. 10.32 per hr.
11.49 per hr.
11.05	per hr. (licenced)
11.05	per hr.
9.70	per hr.
9.95	per hr.
11.02	per hr.
10.58	per hr.
10.58	per hr.
9.95	per hr.
10.24	per hr.
9.95	per hr.
10.24	per hr.
11.77	per hr.
10.12	per hr.
11.32	per hr.
10.78	per hr.
10.78	per hr.
10.12	per hr.
10.12	per hr. 11.97 per hr.
10.32	per hr.
12.49	per hr.
10.32	per hr.
10.50	per hr.
10.32	per hr.
MAINTENANCE
DEPARTMENT & CLASSIFICATION
Skilled Trades
Asst. Mechanic #1
Mechanic //2
Mechanic/Eiectro Mechanic # 3
Mechanic/Eiectro Mechanic #4
Electromechanic #5
Assistant Carpenter
Carpenter
Group Leader
General
Helper
Tradespersons’
Apprentices
Office Cleaners
Factory Janitor
Labourer
Utility Person
GENERAL CLASSIFICATIONS SCHEDULE “A” TIME RATED CLASSIFICATIONS EFFECTIVE APRIL 28, 1991
RATE	2 MONTHS 6 MONTHS ONE YEAR
11.45 per hr.	11.62	per	hr.	11.77	per	hr. 11.97 per hr.
12.64 per hr.	12.81	per	hr.	12.95	per	hr.
13.39 per hr.	13.62	per	hr.	13.83	per	hr.
15.02 per hr.	15.15	per	hr.	16.02	per	hr.
To be established
11.32 per hr. 11.82 per hr. 11.97 per hr.
13.05 per hr. 13.15 per hr. 13.23per hr. 13.39 per hr. 50£ per hour over category 75£ per hour over category
9.70 per hr.
9.82 per hr. 9.95 per hr. 10.06 per hr.
10.45	per hr.
9.70	per hr. 9.88 per hr.
9.70	per hr.
10.45	per hr.
10.17 per hr. 9.84 per hr. 10.57 per hr.
10.57 per hr.
9.94 per hr.
9.99 per hr.
ADVANCED
13.11 per hr. 14.86 per hr. 16.50 per hr.
LETTER OF INTENT
Separate cheques for Vacation Pay paid at the regular mill shut-down.
The company will endeavour to pay the “Vacation” paid at the regular shut-down on a separate cheque.
Day worked in lieu of a day off.
Understanding that this generally applies to Christmas/New Year holiday time.
On agreement by the Union executive that it will apply to all employees, the company will endeavour to pay the day worked in lieu of a day off the week for which the day was worked for.
Canada Savings Bonds.
The company will provide payroll deductions for savings bonds as requested. Details of the scheme will be provided by August 1, 1990.