COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT between
PORRITTS 8. SPENCER CANADA INC.
and
UNION OF NEEDLETRADES, INDUSTRIAL AND TEXTILE EMPLOYEES AFL-CIO - CLC, Local 720T
Effective until May 31,1999
	TABLE OF CONTENTS PORRITTS & SPENCER CANADA INC.
ARTICLE I	- PURPOSEAND OBLIGATION	1
ARTICLE II	■ RECOGNITION AND COVERAGE	2
ARTICLE III	- RESERVATIONOF MANAGEMENT FUNCTIONS	2
ARTICLE IV	- NO DISCRIM INATIONOR INTIMIDATION	3
ARTICLE V	- UNION REPRESENTATION	3
ARTICLE VI	■ GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE	5
ARTICLE VII	.ARBITRATION		7
ARTICLE VIII	■ STRIKESAND LOCKOUTS	8
ARTICLE IX	■ SENIORITY PROVISIONS	9
ARTICLE X	■ JOB POSTINGS, TRANSFERSAND PROMOTIONS ... 11
ARTICLE XI	■ REDUCTIONINTHE WORK FORCE 	15
ARTICLE XII	.RECALL	16
ARTICLE XIII	-WAGES	17
ARTICLE XIV	- HOURSOF WORK AND OVERTIME	17
ARTICLE XV	■ PLANT HOLIDAYS	21
ARTICLE XVI	- VACATION WITH PAY	23
ARTICLE XVII	- SAFETY HEALTH AND BENEFITS	25
ARTICLE XVIII	- NOTICE BOARDS	30
ARTICLE XIX	-NOTICES	30
ARTICLE XX ARTICLE XXI ARTICLE XXII APPENDIX "A"
APPENDIX "B”
-	MAINTENANCEOF MEMBERSHIP...............31
-	DEDUCTIONOF UNION DUES ................31
A- ^
-	DURATIONAND MODIFICATIONOF AGREEMENT A^J
-SCHEDULE OF HOURLY RATES	/
SCHEDULE OF CLASSIFICATION. JOB LEVEL '
AND JOB LEVEL PAY........................34
SCHEDULE OF JOB LEVELS AND PAY RATES..35
SCHEDULE OF JOB CLASS AND JOB LEVELS..37
39
LETTERS OF UNDERSTANDING
WEEKEND SHIFT..........................40
PENSION PLAN...........................43
RED CIRCLE RATES ......................45
HEALTH BENEFITS FOR EMPLOYEESON
EARLY RETIREMENT.......................47
1
THIS AGREEMENT entered into at Hamilton, Ontario as of the 27th day of August, 1996
BETWEEN:
PORRITTS & SPENCER CANADA INC.
HAMILTON, ONTARIO (hereinafter called the "Company")
- and-
UNIONOF NEEDLETRADES, INDUSTRIALAND TEXTILE EMPLOYEES AFL-CIO, CLC, LOCAL720T (hereinaftercalledthe "Union")
ARTICLE I - PURPOSEAND OBLIGATION
1.01	The general purpose of this Agreement is to maintain a harmonious
relationship between the Company and its employees and to provide an amicable method of settling any grievances or differences which may arise hereunder, and to further provide means for operation of the plant in a manner which will further in all possible ways the welfare and safety of employees, betterment and quality of product, economy of manufactureand quantity of output, all to the mutual interest and advantage of the employees and the Company.
1-02 All provisions and terms of this Agreement are hereby mutually agreed to by and between the Company and all the employees who are herein represented by the Union, and signed by representativesof the parties hereto who have been duly authorizedto execute the same on their behalf respectively. The fulfilment of this Agreement shall be fully observed by the employees, the Officers and members of the Union and by the Company and it shall be the duty of all to see that this Agreement is carried out both in letter and in spirit.
ARTICLE II - RECOGNITION AND COVERAGE
2 01 Porritts & Spencer Canada Inc. Hamilton, Ontario recognizes the Union as the sole collective bargaining agency with respectto all matters properly arising underthis Agreement covering their Hamilton operation for all employees, including maintenance men and factory clerical staff, save and except foremen (department heads), those above the rank of foreman, stationary engineers and office staff.
2.02	Where the masculine pronoun is used herein it shall mean and include the feminine pronoun the context so applies.
2.03(a) The Company may hire Part-time employees, which shall be defined as employees who regularly work for twenty-four hours or less in a week.
It is understood that such part time employees shall not be covered by this agreement provided that they are not hired for the purpose of displacing permanent full time employees.
2:03(b) The Company may also hire temporary employees for up to thirty continuous working days, or such longer period as agreed, to cover temporary vacancies as result of regular employees being absent on account of sickness, accident or any leave of absence, or to fill in for regular employees who have been temporarily moved to replace temporarily absent regular employees.”
ARTICLE III - RESERVATION OF MANAGEMENT FUNCTIONS
3.01	The Union acknowledges that it is the exclusive function Company to:
(a)	Maintain order, discipline and efficiency
(b)	Hire, discharge, direct, classify, transfer, promote, demote and suspend or otherwise discipline employees, subject to the terms of this Agreement;
(c)	Generallyto manage the industrial enterprise in which the Company is engaged and, without restrictingthe generality of the foregoing, to determine the products to be manufactured,
3
methods of manufacture, schedules of production, kinds and locations of machines and tools to be used, process of manufacturing, and engineering and designing of its products, the control of materials and parts to be incorporatedin the products produced, and the extension, limitation, curtailment or cessation of operations.
3.02	The Company agrees that these functions will be exercised in a manner consistent with the provisions of the Agreement.
3.03	The parties acknowledge that supervisors perform work that is normally performed by employees in the bargaining unit, and in considerationof this the Company agrees that no supervisor will perform such work to the extent and volume that it directly results in the lay-off or prevents the recall of an employee to a full-time regularjob.
ARTICLE IV - NO DISCRIMINATION OR INTIMIDATION
4.01	It is agreed that there will be no discrimination, coercion or intimidation by the Company or the Union, or by their respective representatives or members, against any employee.
4.02	The Union further agrees that there will be no solicitation for membership, collection of dues or other Union activity on the premises of the Company during working hours, except as specifically permitted by the Agreement and/or with the permission of the Company.
4.03	Violation of this Article shall render any employee liable to discipline or dismissal.
ARTICLE V- UNION REPRESENTATION
5.01	The Union will appoint stewards whose duties shall be to assist employees in the stewards' respectivezones in presenting their grievances to representativesof the Company in accordancewith the Grievance Procedure. The Company shall recognize stewards to be allocated to zones and shifts as follows:
1 steward per shift 1 steward per shift 1 steward per shift 1 steward per shift 1 steward per shift
5.02	The Union shall notify the Company in writing of the names of the stewards, the Zone, and the shift each representsand of any changes in the personnel of the stewards before the Company shall be required to recognize them.
5.03	The Company agrees to communicate with the Local Union Committee in the event of cases of discipline, discharge, lay-off, recall and in general matters affecting the bargaining unit.
5.04	Employeesshall not be eligible to serve as stewards or as membersof the Union Grievance committee unless they have been in the Company's continuous employ for at least one year.
5.05	It is understoodthat stewards and members of the Union Grievance Committee have their regularworkto perform on behalf ofthe Company, and that if it is necessary to service a complaint and/or a grievance during working hours, they will not leave their work without obtaining the permissionof their Department Head. When resuming their regular work they will report to their Department Head and will give a reasonable explanation which may be requestedwith respect to their absence.
Felt:	(a) Yarn Preparation
(b)	Weaving
(c)	Burling
(d)	Fibrelocker
(e)	Finishing
5.06	In order that there will be as little loss of time and productionas possible, it is understoodthat, when possible, complaints and/or grievances will be serviced outside of working hours.
5.07	Union Committees
(a)	The President, Vice President, Secretary and Treasurer of the Union shall constitute the Grievance Committee.
(b)
i
The President, Vice President, Secretary and Treasurer of the Union shall constitute the Bargaining Committee. Members of
5
the Bargaining Committee will be allowed reasonable time off to attend meetings with Managementto negotiate a renewal of this Agreement and up to four members of the Bargaining Committee shall be paid for all time spent attending such meetings during their regular working hours up to but not following Conciliation.
ARTICLE VI - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
6.01	For the purposes of this agreement, a grievance is defined as a
difference arising between the parties relating to the interpretation, application, administrationor alleged violation of the agreement including any question as to whether a matter is arbitrable. There shall be no suspension of work on account of such grievance, but an earnest effort shall be made to settle it immediately in the following manner:
Step One:
An employee who has a grievance shall, within five (5) full working days after the circumstances giving rise to the grievance has occurred, submit his grievance to the foreman of the department involved.A meeting will be convened, forthwith, involving the foreman of the department, the aggrieved employee and the shop steward to discuss the grievance. Failing settlement of the grievance, the foreman shall deliver his decision within one working day following the meeting.
Step Two:
Failing resolution under Step One, the employee, within three working days following the Step One decision, shall submit his grievance in writing to the superintendent, or his designate. The grievance shall set out the articles which are alleged to have been violated, together with a statement of the particulars giving rise to the grievance. The superintendent, or his designate, upon receipt of the grievance shall convene a meetingwhich shall include the grievor, a representative of the union's grievance committee, the foreman, and any other parties mutually agreed to between the union and the company. Failing resolution of the grievance at this meeting, the superintendent shall render a decision in writing within three full working days following the meeting.
6
Step Three:
Failing resolution under Step Two, the employee shall, within three working days following the Step Two decision, submit his grievance to the Chief Executive Officer of the Company or his designate. A meetingshall be convenedwhich shall include membersofthe Union’s grievance committee, representatives of the Company and the grievor.
If the grievance is not settled at this meeting, the Chief Executive Officer shall render a decision within five full working days of the meeting. A member of the national organization of the union may be called by either party at this step.
6.02	Failing a settlement of the grievance under the above procedure, either the Union or the Company may refer the matter to arbitration by providing to the other a written request within ten working days following the Step Three decision. Failing such referral to arbitration, the grievance will be deemed to have been settled or abandoned.
6.03	The steward or stewards who are directly involved at the outset of the grievance may act as alternates for the regular members of the grievance committee under Steps Two and Three of the Grievance Procedure.
6.04	A grievance arising directly between the Company and the Union shall be originated at Step Three and the time limits set out with respect to that Step shall appropriatelyapply. It is understood, however, that the provisions of this section may not be used with respect to a regular grievance directly affecting an employee or employees and that the regular grievance procedure shall not be thereby bypassed.
6.05	Where a number of employees have the same grievance and each employee would be entitled to grieve separately, they may present a group grievance, in writing , signed by each employee within ten working days following the occurrence or origination of the common circumstance giving rise to the grievance. The grievance shall be presented to the superintendents his designate, and shall thereafter be treated as having been initiated at Step Three and the applicable provisions of this agreement shall then apply with respect to the treatment of the grievance.
7
6.06	DISCHARGE GRIEVANCES
(a)	Probationary employees shall not have access to the grievance procedure in respect of discharge grievances.
(b)	A claim by an employee, who has successfully completed his probationary period, that he has been unjustly discharged shall be submitted as a written grievance to the superintendent or the Plant Manager within five working days after the employee ceases to work for the Company. The grievance shall then be treated as having been initiated at Step Three and the applicable provisions of the Agreement shall apply with respect to the treatment of the grievance. A discharge grievance may be settled under the grievance procedure by confirming management's action in discharging the employee who has successfully completed his probationary period by reinstating the employee with full compensationfor time lost, or by any other arrangement which may be deemedjust and equitable in the opinion of the conferring parties.
(c)	All decisions arrived at between the Company and representativesof the Union will be final and binding upon the Company, the Union and the employee or employees concerned.
6.07	The time limits set out in this article shall be mandatory and any matter which has not been processed in accordance with the procedures set out in this article shall be deemed to have been abandoned. Time limits may only be extended by written agreement between the Company and the Union.
ARTICLE VII - ARBITRATION
7.01	Where a grievance is being referred to arbitration in accordance with the procedure set out in Article 6, the party requestingthe referral to arbitration shall include the name of its nominee to the arbitration board.
8
7.02	The recipient of the request for referral shall, within five working days of receipt of the request, inform the other party of the name of its nominee to the arbitration board.
7.03	The two nominees shall confer at the earliest opportunity for the purpose of selecting, by agreement, a Chair of the arbitration board. If they are unable to agree on such a Chair within a reasonabletime frame, then either one of them may requestthatthe Office of Arbitration of the Ministry of Labour assist them in appointing a Chair.
7.04	As an alternative to the appointment of a three party arbitration board, the parties may agree to select a single arbitrator who is mutually agreeable to them to hear the grievance under this article. Failing such mutual agreement, the process set out above shall be followed.
7.05	No person may be appointed as a nominee or arbitrator who has been involved in an attempt to negotiate or settle the grievance. However, this shall not precludethe parties in mutually agreeing to requestthe arbitration board to mediate the grievance.
7.06	The arbitration board or a single arbitrator, as the case may be, shall not be authorized to make any decision which is inconsistent with the provisions of this agreement nor to alter, modify or amend any part of this agreement.
7.07	The proceedingsof the arbitration board or a single arbitrator, as the case may be, will be expedited by the parties and the decision of the majority of such a board or single arbitrator, as the case may be, will be final and binding upon the parties. Each of the parties will bear expenses of the nominee appointed by it and the parties shall jointly bear the expenses, if any, of the Chair of the arbitration board or the single arbitrator, as the case may be.
ARTICLE VIII - STRIKES AND LOCKOUTS
8.01	In view of the orderly proceduresfor settling grievances, the Company
agrees, that it will not cause or direct any lockout of its employees, and the Union agrees that there will be no strike or other collective action
9
which will stop, curtail or interfere with work or production. It is understood that any employee or employees taking part in or instigating any such strike or other collective action may be appropriately dealt with by the Managementunder Article III of this Agreement.
ARTICLE IX - SENIORITY PROVISIONS.
Part 1 - Probationary Employees
9.01	During the first one hundred and twenty (120) calendar days of employment, an employee shall be considered to be on probation. However, if the employee is absent during this period, then the probationary period shall be extended by the number of calendar days required to make up the missed shifts. The employee shall acquire seniority after completing the probationary period, at which time the employee's seniority shall date back to the day on which his last employmentwithin the bargaining unit with the Company commenced.
9.02	The dismissal of a probationary employee shall be at the sole discretion of the Company and shall be deemed to be for just cause, provided,that the Company did not act in a capricious or arbitrary manner or violate the Ontario Human Rights Code.
Part2 - Seniority
9.03	Seniority shall be allotted to employees on a departmental basis as follows:
i)	Maintenance Department
ii)	Weaving Department
iii)	Needle Loom Department
iv)	Spinning Department
v)	Burling and Mending Department
vi)	Finishing Department
10
Part 3- Loss of Seniority
9.04	a) The seniority of an employees will cease six (6) months after
transferring to a position outside of the bargaining unit.
b) The seniority of an employee shall cease and his/her
employment shall terminate for any of the. following reasons:
I) When an employee voluntarily terminateshis/her employment with the Company in writing.
jj) When an employee terminateshis/her employment verbally to supervision and does not reverse his decision at leasttwo (2) hours priorto the start of his/her next regularly scheduled shift.
iii) When a employee is discharged and is not reinstated.
jv) When a employee is laid off and does not acknowledge the Company’s recall notice as specified in Article 12 of this Agreement or fails to return to work as per Article 12.
v)	When an employee is absent from work for three (3) or more consecutive working days without providing the Company with an explanationwhich is satisfactory to the Company.
vi)	When an employee is laid off for fifteen (15) months without being recalled to work within this period.
vii)	When an employees retires.
viii)	When an employee overstays a vacation or leave of absence without securing the extension of such vacation or leave of absence from his/her supervisor.
11
ix)	When an employee utilizes a leave of absence for purposes other than for those for which it was granted.
x)	When an employee fails to return to work immediately after the Company and the employee have been notified by the employee's Doctor that the employee is able to return to his/her job.
Part 5 - Seniority Lists
9.05	Copies of the Seniority Lists shall be revised and posted on the plant
bulletin board every six (6) months. Copies of all Seniority Lists shall be provided to the Union Committee members and the Ontario Joint Council.
ARTICLE X - JOB POSTINGS, TRANSFERS AND PROMOTIONS.
In dealing with transfers and promotions through the job postings for employees within the plant, the following procedure shall apply:
10.01	(a) Notice of all permanent vacancies in occupational
classificationswithin the bargaining unit except for General Labour classifications, shall be posted on the main bulletin board for a period of three (3)working days before being filled. The Company will give consideration to applications in respect of such vacancies received from seniority employees who have not been permanently transferred from one job to another as a result of being awarded a job posting under section 10.01 during the twelve (12) month period preceding the date of the posting. Notice of vacancy referred to herein, shall contain adequate information respecting the job, such as the rates and hours of work. The Company will base its decision on skill, competence and efficiency provided and, that these factors are relatively equal, the Company will give preferenceto the most senior qualified employee. Where the Company does not select the senior eligible applicant employee for a vacancy posted under this section, it shall meet with the Union Committee to discuss its decision. If the
12
senior eligible applicant employee andlorthe Union Committee does not agree with this Company's decision and/or the reason(s) then a grievance may be submitted to the Company within five (5) full working days of such meeting of disclosure.
(b)	Employees hired into classifications other than labourer shall be restricted from transferring to another classification for a period of twelve (12) months from their date of hire.
(c)	While it is understood that the Company is notobligedto post vacancies in the General Labourclassification, it will give consideration to any employee who has in the last sixty (60) calendar days recorded in writing with the Company his/her wish to be employed in General Labour classificationin the event a vacancy occurs. For this purpose, the Company shall maintain an up-to-date file for such employee's requests.
10.02	(a) An employee transferred from one seniority list to another
through the application of section 10,01 shall retain his/her their seniority in his/her former seniority list for a period of thirty (30) working days, excluding absences, vacations or plant holidays. On the expiry of this thirty (30) day period the employee's seniority shall be credited to the Departmental Seniority List to which the employee is transferred, unless this period is extended by mutual agreement between the Company and the Union.
(b)	An employee transferred or promoted within a department through the application of section 10.01 shall retain his/her right to return to his/her former classification for a period thirty (30) working days, excluding absences, vacations or plant holidays
(c)	If an employee elects to return or is returned by the Company to his/her former classification within the time limits specified in
10.02	(a)or(b) above, the employee will be ineligibleto be considered for future opening/vacancies for a period of twelve (12) months from the date of his/her return to the former classification.
(d)
10.03	(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
An employee transferred as a result of ajob posting awarded in accordancewith section 10.01 (a) above, shall not be considered in the permanent position until the thirty (30) working days on the job have elapsed nor shall any subsequent transfer as a direct result of the original transfer and their respectivethirty (30) working days period have elapsed.
due to illness or temporary disability, or pregnancy leave, or paternity leave, the position shall be assigned to the most senior employee within the same or lower classificationwith sufficient skill and experience and who the Company decides can be spared from his current position.Any consequent temporary vacancy will be filled in the same manner.
When a temporary vacancy cannot be filled through the application of sub-section 10.03 (a) above, an employee from any department can be transferred to the position.
A temporary assignment, other than assignments due to pregnancy leave, parental leave, illness, injury or disability covered by the Weekly Indemnity Plan or Workers' Compensation shall not exceed thirty (30) calendar days (excludingvacations and plant holidays), unless extended by mutual agreement between the Company and the Union.
A temporary assignment due to pregnancy leave, parental leave, illness, injury or disability covered by the Weekly Indemnity Plan or Workers' Compensation shall continue for the duration of the relieved employee's absence up to six (6) months.
An employee temporarily assigned to another job, at the instigation of the employer, (including assignment due to illness, injury or disability covered by the Weekly Indemnity Plan or Workers' Compensation) shall receive the rate ofthe job/classification to which the employee is assigned or the rate of their own classificationwhich ever the higher for the duration of the assignment.
(e)	An employee temporarily assigned for any reason shall be returned to the employee's former position within the employee's former job/classification and shift at the completion of the assignment and shall be paid at the current rate of pay and any applicable premiums. The provisions of this sub-section shall not apply to an employee who is affected by a reduction in the work force, in which case such an employee shall be entitled to exercise the options granted to the employee under the reduction in the work force at this time.
(f)	An employee on a temporary assignment shall be eligibleto apply for any applicable permanentjob posting(s) and shall not be precludedfrom consideration for transfer.
10.04	An employee, if transferred for any of the following reasons, shall be paid the current rate of pay for the job/classification to which the employee is:
i)	Transferred at the employee's own request.
ii)	Transferred in lieu of lay-off.
lii) Transferred on a Doctor's certified recommendation.
10.05	An employee transferred to a position outside the bargaining unit shall accumulate seniority for a period of six (6) months. If the employee is returnedto the bargaining unit for any reason(s) within that period, the employee shall be returnedto the employee's former classification.
Such an employee shall lose all seniority and rights after the expiration of the six (6)month period.
10.06	The seniority of an employee who accepts an assignment to relieve another employee who is off work on illness or injury leave or leave of absence or vacation shall not be transferred, and the employee shall be returnedto the employee's former job/classification and shift upon completion of the assignment.
10.07	An employee may substitutefor another employee through a straight time switch providedthat the change is preapproved in writing one week
15
priorto the switch by his/her supervisor. This shall be done on a no additional cost basis to the Company.
ARTICLE XI - REDUCTION ]N THE WORK FORCE.
1101 In the event a reduction of work results in a lay-off, Part-time and
Temporary employees shall be laid off first followed by Probationary employees prior to the lay-off of a seniority employee.
11.02	When circumstances require additional reduction within a Classification and/or Departmental List, the following procedure shall apply:
(a)	An employee with the least amount of seniority in the classificationaffected shall have the right to displace the most junior employee in another classification within the same Seniority List, provided the employee's seniority so allows and the employee has the skill, competence and efficiency to perform the work required.
(b)	An employee so displaced shall in turn displace the most junior employee in another classification within the same Seniority List, provided the employee's seniority so allows and the employee has the skill, competence and efficiency to perform the work required.
(c)	An employee displaced from a Departmental Seniority List, who has previously exhausted all possible options within the employee’s own Seniority List as detailed in (a) or (b) of this section, shall be entitled to displace the most junior employee in any classification on any Seniority List (Maintenance Skilled classifications excepted) provided the employee's seniority so allows and the employee has the skill, competence and efficiency to perform the work required.
(d)	Where a seniority employee has exhausted his/her rights under 11.02 (a), (b) or (c), and where there is a reasonable expectation that the employee, following a training period which shall be no longer than twenty-five (25) days worked,
16
would be able to perform the work of the mostjunior employee in the plant (excepting Maintenance and skilled classifications)then, providing the employee has the physical ability to performthe work, he/she will be allowed to displace the junior employee.
(e)	An employee entering another department through the
provisions of this Article shall have the employee's seniority transferred, except in the case of paragraph (d) in this event, the employee's seniority will transfer upon successful completion of the training period. Should the employee not successfully complete the training period, he will be laid off and the displaced employee shall be returned to the position.
11.03	In the event of a lay-off for reasons other than power or steam failure , fire, flood, machine breakdown, lack of material, or any other condition whatsoever beyond the control of the Company, the Company shall give notice of lay-off in accordance with the Employment Standards Act or any successor legislation; however, in no event shall such notice be less than seven (7) working days.
ARTICLE XII - RECALL
12.01	In the event of an increase in the work force seniority employees whether physically laid off or having bumped into another jobloperation or classification, will be recalled on a departmental seniority basis, provided that the recalled employee has the skill, competence and efficiency to perform the work in question, subject to the following rules
12.02	(a) All employees are responsible for notifying the Company of a
change in address telephone and while on physical lay-off a place of contact for recall purposes.
(b) When it is not possible to contact an employee by telephone, then notification of the recall shall be sent by Courier/Priority Post to the last address recorded by the Company for the employee and the employee shall be deemed to have received the notice within the next three (3)working days of sending the
notice.
17
12.03	An employee, when notified by the Company of his/her recall from layoff shall advise the Company within three (3) working days of his/her intention to return to work and the employee shall return to work within nine ( 9) calendar days of the giving, and/or sending of such notice of recall.
ARTICLE XIII -WAGES
13.01	The Company agrees to pay and the Union agrees to accept the
schedule of wage rates attached hereto appendix " A which form part of this Agreement.
ARTICLE XIV - HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
14.01	(a) The standard work week in all departments shall be forty (40)
hours to be worked in five (5) days of eight (8) hours each, Monday through Friday, except for the 11:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m, shift which shall work Sunday through Thursday.
(b)	Employees will receive a paid break of thirty (30) minutes per eight (8) hour shift and such time will be paid for at their regular straight time hourly rate.
(c)	The normal hoursfor shifts shall be as set out in Appendix "B" attached to this Agreement. Except in cases of emergency, the starting and stopping times of any shifts implementedby the Company shall not be changed without prior discussion with the Union.
14.02	Notwithstandingthe foregoing, the Company may, at such times it deems necessary, implementa continuous seven (7) day operationfor employees in the Weaving, Fibre Locker, Finishing and Spinning Departmentsand the Company and the Union agree that any premium pay otherwise applicable under Article XIV of the Collective Agreement shall have no application to such employees so long as they continue
18
on such operation and that the other provisions of Article XIV apart from this paragraph shall have no application.
In lieu thereof, employees shall be paid their regular straight time hourly rate for all hours worked and in addition:
1.	time and one-half for all authorized hours worked in excess of eight (8) per day at the employee's regular straight time hourly rate;
2.	any shift premium applicable under Section 14.06; and
3 . an additional premium in the amount of eighty-eightcents (88 cents) for each straight time hour worked by them up to a maximum of eight (8) per day for the duration of such schedule.
It is understood, however, that there shall be no pyramiding of any premiums payable under this Article.
It is further understood that an employee required to work on his first scheduled day off (in accordance with such schedule) shall be paid time and one-half his regular straight time hourly rate for all hours worked and double his regular straight time hourly rate for all hours worked on his second scheduled day off.
14.03	While the foregoing paragraphs define the standard work week during the term of the Agreement for the employees concerned, they shall not be construed or interpreted as a guarantee by the Company of a specific number of hours of work per day or days of work per week.
14.04	(a) Except as provided in paragraph 14,04 (b) all authorizedwork
performed by the employee in excess of his standard work day or standard work week shall be considered overtime and, except in the case of work performedon Sunday, shall be paid for at the rate of time and one-half (1 1/2) the employee's regular hourly rate in the case of an hourly rated employee and time and one half (1 112) the employee's average hourly earnings, excluding overtime premium, for the current pay
19
period in the case of a piece work rated employee. Work performed on Sunday, shall be paid for at the rate of two (2) times the employee's regular hourly rate in the case of an hourly rated employee and two (2) times the employee's average hourly earnings excluding overtime premium for the current pay period in the case of a piece work rated employee. In no case shall an employee be paid both daily and weekly overtime for the same overtime hours. Except in cases of emergency, the Company agrees to notify an employee twenty-four (24) hours in advance when he will be requiredto work overtime.
(b) If, through any cause other than by Company instruction, an employee commences work after the starting time of his regular shift or as otherwise specified by the Company, overtime premium pay will not apply until after the employee has completed the equivalent of the standard number of hours for the shift. The normal hours for shifts shall be as set out in Appendix "B" attached to this Agreement.
14.05	An employee who is transferredfor any reason from one shift schedule to another shift schedule and who, as a result of the transfer, works more than eight (8) hours in the twenty-four (24) hour period, will be paid at the overtime rate applicable to the extra hours so worked. However, in the event an employee so transferred loses any hours due to such transfer, he will have his straight-time hours actually worked for that week made up by the Company to forty (40) hours, and any overtime hours will not be consideredas part of his forty (40) hours for that week.
14.06	Employees working on other than the regular day shift shall be entitled to a shift premium. This premium will be twenty-five (25) cents per hour for employees working on the second shift (afternoon) and thirty (30) cents per hour for employees working the third shift (night). Shift premium payable under this section shall not be subject to the time and one-half (11/2) basisfor overtime.
14.07	An employee who is engaged in the training and overseeing of a new employee shall be entitledto a training premium of twenty-five (25)
20
cents per hour in addition to his regular rate of pay in the case of an hourly worker, and to his average rate of pay in the case of a pieceworker.
14.08	Not having been advised otherwise by the Company, an employee who reports for work at the commencement of his regular shift and for whom no work is available in his normal classification, shall be offered four (4) hours work in another classification, at his regular rate, or, at the discretion of the Management shall be paid four (4) hours pay at his regular rate in lieu thereof. However, the provision of this paragraph shall not apply in the event of power or steam failure, fire, flood, or any other condition whatsoever beyond the control of the Company. Failure of an employee to keep the Company informed of his correct home address and telephone number, if any, shall relieve the Company of this responsibility in respect of the provisions of this paragraph as applicable to such employee.
14.09	If an emergency arises and an employee is called back to work outside his standard working hours he shall be paid time and one-half (1 112) his regular rate, except on Sunday when he shall be paid two (2) times his regular rate, or a minimum of four (4) hours at his regular rate, whichever is the greater.
14.10	In the case of downtime resulting from causes beyond the control of an employee performing piecework, the Company shall pay the employee concerned pro-rata on the basis of his average hourly earnings, excluding overtime, in respect of those machineswhich are stopped. The regular piece work rate will apply in respect of those machines which continue to operate. An employee's average hourly earnings excluding overtime, will be computed each four weeks and this average will be used for the following four (4) week period.
14.11	Any employee temporarily assigned to anotherjob will receivethe rate of the job to which he is transferred, or the rate of the previously filled job whichever is the higher. A temporary transfer is one of not more than thirty (30)days unless extended by mutual agreement. Employeestransferred permanently to anotherjob will receivethe rate of the job to which they transferred.
21
14.12	An employee who accepts work in excess of his regularly assigned hours for a period of not less than two (2) hours will be allowed a paid rest period of ten (10) minutes atthe rate of the overtimejob (including any applicable premiums etc.). This rest period will be granted at a time as close as possible to the changeover from his regular hours to the overtime hours and it will in no way affect his normal rest and lunch periods.
14.13	(a) When an employee applies for a position under the terms of
article X and is awarded the job and assigned to the work, he will be paid at a level equal to the top grade of the job as specified in appendix "A" when no training (excluding familiarization) i s required,
(b)	Negotiations between the Union and the Company to move an
employee through the progression wage levels faster than provided for in appendix " Ashall take place at the Union's request if it feels such advancement is justified by the employee's progress on the job. Disagreementsor disputes arising out of, or under the provisions of this clause shall not be subject to grievance or arbitration.
ARTICLE XV- PLANT HOLIDAYS
15.01	Subjectto the provisionsof paragraphs 15.02 and 15.03 below, the
following Plant Holidays will be granted with pay to all employees whose names appear on the official seniority lists:
New Year's Day	Civic Holiday
Good Friday	• Labour Day
Victoria Day	Thanksgiving Day
Dominion Day	Christmas Day
Boxing Day
There shall be four (4) additional plant holidays annually, the dates of which shall be mutually agreed upon by the Company and the Union on behalf of the employees prior to the end of the second week of December in the year preceding the year in which the holidays are to be

22
taken. If the parties are unable to agree as required above, the Company shall unilaterally set the dates and announce them priorto the end of December in the year preceding the year in which the holidays are to be taken. In the event that new public holidays are declared by appropriate legislation to be binding upon the operation of the Company, such public holidays shall replace the holidays provided for above and this clause shall lapse and become void and of no effect.
15.02	Employees who have served their probationary period referred to in paragraph 9.01 above, will be paid for the number of hours such employees would normally have worked had there been no holiday. Hourly rated employees will be paid at their regular hourly rate and piece-work rated employees will be paid at their respective average hourly earnings excluding overtime for the regular pay period immediately preceding the plant holiday concerned.
15.03	If the holiday occurs on a Saturday or Sunday it shall be observed on the preceding Friday or next following Monday. It is understood that the observance of Christmas Day and Boxing Day shall not be interrupted by a normal working day.
15.04	In order to be eligible for Plant Holiday pay, it is understood that the employee must work the full regular shift on the declared work day
' immediately preceding and the full regular shift on the declared work day immediately following the Plant Holiday concerned (or on the Friday or on the Monday concerned if observed thereon), unless on authorized leave of absence due to certified sickness or an injury compensable under the Workers' Compensation Act not exceeding thirty (30) calendar days in either case, or unless his absence on either one of the declared work days is due to bereavement in his immediate family (i.e. spouse, father, mother, sister, brother, child, father-in-law, mother-inlaw, or grandparents).
15.05	Overtime pay at the rate specified in paragraph 14.04 above will be paid for work performed on the Plant Holidays named in paragraph 15.01 above (or on the Friday or on the Monday concerned if observed thereon), This payment will be in addition to any Plant Holiday pay to which the employee would otherwise be entitled under the provisions of this Agreement.
23
ARTICLE XVI - VACATION WITH PAY
16.01 Subject to other provisions of this agreement as they may apply, the Company agrees that the total amount of vacation with pay due each employee shall be based on his length of continuous service with the Company as at May 31st in each year and shall be computed in accordance with the Computation of Vacation Pay Table set out below.
COMPUTATIONS VACATION PAY TABLE
Vacation With Pay
Length of Continuous Service Granted	Rate of Vacation Pay
Less than 1 years service	2 weeks
1 yr. or over but less than 7 yrs 2 weeks 7 yrs. or over but less than 15 yrs 3 weeks 15 yrs. or over but less than 23 yrs 4 weeks 23 yrs. or over but less than 28 yrs	5 weeks
28 yrs. or over	6 weeks
4% of employees total earnings for work performedfor the Company during the 12 months' period ending with and including the last full pay period in the month of May.
4%	"
6%	“
8%	“
10%	”
12%	“
16.02	In additionto the vacation pay computed undersection 16.01 the
Company agrees that an additional amount shall be payable on or about December 15th of each year.
The amount payable is determined as defined below:
(a)	Effective June 3,1995 $250.00 payable to each employee who has qualified for vacation pay as defined in section 16.04
(b)	An additional $100.00 is payableto each employee provided that his attendance record for the precedingyear (ended November 30th) is 95% or greater of the straight time hours for
24
16.03
his regular shifts during that year.
(a)	The Company will be closed for vacation purposesfor the week immediately prior to the Civic Holiday. All employees will take one week of their vacation at such time. The second week of an employee's vacation will be taken one week prior or one week after the plant shut down. Employeeswho are required to remain on duty during such plant shutdown, will be permitted to take this vacation at a time mutually satisfactory to such employee and the Company.
(b)	The second week of vacation and any further weeks to which an employee may be entitled shall be scheduled as follows:
An employee shall make application to the Company on or before February 28th of each year for the date(s) he proposes. The Company will open all applicationson or before March 7th of each year, and confirm such dates(s) or giving due considerationto the seniority of the employees concerned and the exigenciesofthe Company's business, allocate a mutually agreeable alternative vacation date, when the date(s) requested by two or more employees are the same period.
If an employee wishes to take his 3rd/4th/5th or 6th week of vacation on or before May 7th, his application should be made to the Company at least eight (8) weeks prior to the start of the requested vacation period.
If a change in vacation date(s) is requested, such request should be made to the Company at leastfour (4) weeks priorto the date of the requested change. The Company will look favourably at such requests, particularly in the case of an emergency, and if possible, approve the changed vacation.
Employees will be paid for the vacation they are about to take (or for their total vacation pay due in one payment at the employees option) during the week immediately prior to its commencement and the total earnings on which vacation pay is calculated, and the percentage vacation pay to which the employee is entitled will be written on the vacation pay cheque stub.
25
16.04	Lost time while receiving Workers' Compensation under The Workers' CompensationAct (Ontario) or Sick benefit under the Company's hospitalizationplan described herein shall, for purpose of calculating Vacation pay be computed as if the employee had been paid his full regular rate of pay during such absence. To qualify for this benefit the employee must have worked forty (40) days in the vacation year.
16.05	An employee whose service with the Company is terminated shall receive Vacation Pay for the period to which he is entitled in accordance with the computation of Vacation Pay set out in Section 16.01.
ARTICLE XVII - SAFETY HEALTH AND BENEFITS
17 01 The Company shall make provisionsfor the safety and health of its employees during working hours.
17.02	The Union agrees that it will co-operate in the enforcement of safety rules and regulations.
17.03	The Company will make availablefor employees and their eligible dependants the opportunity to participate in the group insurance plans indicated below. It is understoodthat such participation is subject to the terms and conditions of the group insurance plans which will be underwritten by recognized i nsurance companies. It is further understood that any right to participate and be entitled to coverage under the group insurance plans below ceases immediatelywhen an employee quits, is discharged or goes on strike subject to the provisions of the Ontario Labour Relations Act or any successor legislation. Such participationand coverage shall also cease if an employee is on leave of absence or is laid off, unless otherwise provided in this agreement except that in the case of an employee on pregnancy or paternal leave participationshall continue in accordance with the requirementsof the Employment Standards Act or any successor legislation, similarly any employee off on Workers' Compensation shall be entitled to participate in accordance with the Workers' Compensation Act or any successor legislation. Notwithstandingthe foregoing, Weekly Indemnity Insurancewill not cease where the Company decides that it is advisable that Weekly
26
Indemnity cease at some later date.
(a)	Life Insurance:
The Company shall pay 85% and the employee shall pay 15% of the billed premiums for group life insurancewhich provides coverage for all employees in the amount of $25,000.00 with an accidental death and dismemberment provision of a further $25,000.00.
(b)	PrescriptionDrug Plan:
The Company shall pay 85% and the employee shall pay 15% of the billed premiums for a group prescriptiondrug insurance plan which provides for a $0,35 deductible.
(c)	Weekly Indemnity:
The company shall pay 100% of the billed premiumsfor a group Weekly Indemnity Insurance Plan. Such plan will provide coverage for eligible employees in the amount of 2/3rds of the employee's regular weekly earnings up to a maximum of the insurable earnings as determined by the Unemployment Insurance Commission and will pay from the first day for accident, the first day hospitalized, or the eighth day sick up to twenty-six (26)weeks during any one period of disability. The benefits provided by the insurance carrier shall not be reduced by reason of a reduction in insurable earnings by the Unemployment Insurance Commission during the term of this contract.
(d)	Vision Care Plan:
The Company shall pay 100% of the billed premiums fa-a group vision care insurance plan. Such plan will provide up to $200.00 per person once in every two years towards the purchase of eye glasses for employees and their eligible dependants.
27
(e)	Dental Plan:
The Company will make available to its eligible employees a basic Dental Plan which will include check-ups, fillings, extractions, cleaning and scaling as outlined in the Plan document. The Plan will pay 85% of the 1993 Dental Fee Schedule and has a deductible of $25,00 single and $50.00 for family coverage per year.
Effective October 1, 1993, employees may elect to transfer coverage underthe dental plpn to the Blue Cross Prevention Plus Dental Plan 5 which will pay 100% of the 1993 Blue Cross Dental Fee Schedule with no amounts deductible for basic dental care as per the schedule in the Dental Plan booklet. Transfers to this coverage are open once per year during the month of July and once transfer to or from this plan has been made, it remains in effect until the following July of each year.
The Company shall pay 85% and the employee shall pay 15% of the billed premiums for the Dental Plan.
(f)	Life insurance for Retiring Employees:
The Company will contribute 100% of billed premiumstowards life insurance coverage of $1,000.00 for:
j) employees who, having completedten (10) years of service, retire at the normal retirement date;
j|) employees who, having completed fifteen (15) years of service, become permanently disabled as defined by Canada Pension Plan regulations;
iii) employees who, having completed thirty (30) years of service, terminate their employment.
17.04	(a) Any contribution required by sn employee towards billed
28
premiums pursuantto article 17.03 will be byway of payroll deduction.
(b)	The Company will contribute towards the billed premiums in connection with the group insurance plans set out in article 17.03, the balance of premiumsowing afterthe employee's payment of his/her share of the billed premiums. It is understood that the Company's payment of its portion of the said premiums constitutes the Company's sole liability under this Article and that the Company is not the insurer.
(c)	Dividendsor premium rebate accruing as a result of the group insurance will be credited to the employees insured in the group insurance in the form of a reduction of their share of the future premium payable by them.
(d)	If, as a result of the establishment of Unemployment Insurance benefits under the Unemployment InsuranceAct, 1971 or its successor or the Employment InsuranceAct, 1996 or its successor, and the Regulationsthereto applicable to employees incapable of work by reason of illness, injury or quarantine, any savings, rebate or premium reduction of any sort are payable or granted to either the Company or its employees or both, the full amount of such savings, rebates or premium reduction shall accrue solely to the benefit of the Company notwithstandinganything to the contrary contained in any Government legislation.
17.05	PENSION:
The Company will continue its pension plan for employees covered by
this agreement as set out in the official plan document and the Letter of
Understandingattached hereto.
(a)	Effective September 1, 1996 the pension plan will become a non-contributory plan.
(b)	The annual pension accrual commencing January 1, 1991 is 1.75% of basestraight-timeearnings per annum.
29
(c)	Employees with thirty (30) or more years of service and being sixty (60) or more years of age may elect to retire at any time thereafter with the full pension benefit credited at that time being paid without any actuarial reduction.
(d)	Employeeswith thirty (30) or more years of service, but being between the ages of fifty-five (55) and sixty (60) may elect early retirement with a 5% reduction per year for each year early from age sixty (60).
(e)	All other employees between the ages of fifty-five (55) and sixty-five (65) may elect early retirement with a 5% per year reduction with the credit calculatedfrom age sixty-five (65).
(f)	No amendments shall be made to the terms of the pension plan without first discussing the amendments with the Union.
17.06	The company will provide to the Union office a Master copy of all insurance policies and plans, including the pension plan as and if requested except where the provision of these plans would compromise the confidentiality of employees.
17.07	BEREAVEMENT LEAVE:
An employee will be granted up to three (3) days' leave of absence at his regular hourly base rate to make arrangements for and to attend the funeral of the employee's spouse, father, mother, sister, brother, child, father-in-law, mother-in-law or grandparents. In the event that an employee does not make arrangements for and attend the funeral as indicated above, an employee will be granted one (1) day's leave of absence at his regular hourly base rate to attend the memorial service of the employee's spouse, father, mother, sister, brother, child, father-inlaw, mother-in-law or grandparents. In the event of the death of an employee's mother and or father who do not reside in Canada, the employee will be granted up to three (3) day's leave of absence at his regular hourly base rate.
30
17.08	SAFETY SHOES:
The Company agrees that once per contract year it will provide each employee with approved safety footwear up to a maximum cost to the Company of:
i)	regular safety footwear:	$50,00
ii)	all employees in maintenance must wear heavy duty
safety footwear:	$70.00
iii)	those employees in Finishing, handling barrels and
chemicals require heavy duty footwear:	$70.00
ARTICLE XVIII - NOTICE BOARDS
18.01	The Union shall have the right to post notices on the Company's notice boards and a notice board will be provided by the Company for posting of Union notices provided that such notices are signed by authorized officers of the Union and have been approved by Management.
ARTICLE XIX- NOTICES
19.01	Exceptwhere otherwise providedany noticeswhich either party desires to give to the other shall be given by prepaid registered mail as follows:
To the Company:
General Manager
Porritts & Spencer Canada Inc.
P.0. Box 50, L.C.D. # 1 Hamilton, Ontario L8L 7T8
31
To the Union:
Regional Representative Ontario Joint Council
Union of Needletrades, Industrial and Textile Employees
15 Gervais Drive
Suite 700
Don Mills, Ontario
M3C 1Y8
c c Recording Secretary Local 720T
19.02	Any such notice given under this Agreement shall be deemed given and received as of the business day followingthe date of mailing.
ARTICLE XX - MAINTENANCE OF MEMBERSHIP
20.01	All employees coming within the scope of this Agreement who are now members of the Union shall continueto be membersin good standing of the Union during the term of this agreement. All employeescoming within the scope of this Agreement who are not now members of the Union, but who become members of the Union, will continue to be members in good standing of the Union during the term of this Agreement. New employees shall make applicationfor membership in the Union on forms furnished by the Union at the time of their hiring and shall become and remain members in good standing of the Union as soon as their probationaryperiod has been served. If at any time, the Company requests proof of any employee's status in the Union, the Union agreesto furnish such proof. .
ARTICLE XXI - DEDUCTION OF UNION DUES
21.01	The Company agrees to deduct for the duration of this Agreement,
union dues from the pay of those employees who have signed written authorization to do so in a form satisfactory to the Company. Such dues will be deducted from the first pay of each month and will be remitted to the Ontario Joint Council, UNITE, showing the name of each employee from whose pay such deduction has been made. Effective January 1, 1997 union dues will be deducted from each weekly pay and will
continue to be remitted monthly basis to the Ontario Joint Council office.
21.02	The Company will include on each employee's!,4 the amount of union dues (excluding initiation fees and assessments) paid by him during the year being reported on,
ARTICLE XXII - DURATIONAND MODIFICATION OF AGREEMENT
22.01	This agreement shall continue in effect uptiLMay 31,1999, and shall continue automatically thereafter for annualperiods uf ui ie "H) year each unless either party notifies the other in writing in not less than sixty (60) days and not more than ninety (90) days prior to the expiration date that it desires to amend dr terminate the Agreement.
22.02	Negotiationsshall begin within fifteen (15) days following notificationfor amendment as provided in the preceding paragraph.
22.03	If, pursuant to negotiations,an agreement on the renewal or amendment of this agreement is not reached prior to the current expiration date, this Agreement shall continue until a renewal thereof or a new Agreement is consummated or until the provisions of the collective agreement are no longer binding on the parties thereto in accordance with The Ontario Labour Relations Act or any successor legislation.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF each of the parties hereto has caused this Agreement
to be signed by its duly authorized representativesas of the 30th day of
September 1996.
PORRITTS & SPENCER CANADA INC.
Walter Hargreaves Sergio F. Merolli H. E. Standish
33
UNION OF NEEDLETRADES, INDUSTRIAL AND TEXTILE EMPLOYEES, AFL-CIO.CLC, LOCAL 720T
Brian Guitar
Callum MacKenzie
Sharlene Kamara
Rita Henderson
ONTARIO JOINT COUNCIL
Norman Younger Regional Representative
34
APPENDIX" " A- SCHEDULE OF HOURLY RATES SCHEDULE OF CLASSIFICATION, JOB LEVEL AND JOB LEVEL PAY
CLASSIFICATION DESCRIPTION
JOB
LEVEL
***********__RLY RATES***********
PAY	PAY	PAY
RATES	RATES	RATES
JUNE 1/96 MAY 31/97 JUNE 1/98 $0.40	$0.30	$0.30
A	Maint/Equip Mech
B	Loom Fixer
C	Weaver
D	Burter/Seamer
D	410 Operator
D	Pretacker
Operator
E	M/C Operator
F	Material Handler
G	Inspector
14	15.64	15.94
13	15.28	15.58
12	14.92	15.22
11	14.56	14.86
11	14.56	14.86
11	14.56	14.86
10	14.19	14.49
10	14.19	14.49
10	14.19	14.49
16.24
15.88
15.52
15.16
15.16
15.16
14.79
14.79
14.79
CLASSIFICATION
H
35
-HOURIY RATES**** ■
		PAY	PAY	PAY
		RATES	RATES	RATES
	JOB	JUNE 1/96	MAY 31/97	JUNE 1/98
DESCRIPTION	LEVEL	$0.40	$0.30	$0.30
Yarn Prep Operator
7	13.00	13.30	13.60
4	11.80	12.10	12.40
I
Labourer
36
SCHEDULE OF JOB LEVELS AND PAY RATES
JOB LEVEL
PAY	PAY	PAY
RATES	RATES	RATES
JUNE 1/96 MAY 31/97 JUNE 1/98 $0.40	$0.30	$0.30
14	15.64	15.94	16.24
13	15.28	15.58	15.88
12	14.92	15.22	15.52
11	14.56	14.86	15.16
10	14.19	14.49	14.79
9	13.79	14.09	14.39
8	13.39	13.69	13.99
7	13.00	13.30	13.60
6	12.60	12.90	13.20
5	12.20	12.50	12.80
4	11.80	12.10	12.40
3	11.40	11.70	12.00
37
SCHEDULE OF JOB LEVELS AND PAY RATES
PAY	PAY	PAY
RATES	RATES	RATES
JUNE 1/96 MAY 31/97 JUNE 1/98
JOB LEVEL	$0.40	$0.30	$0.30
2	11.00	11.30	11.60
1	10.60	10.90	11.20
SCHEDULE OF JOB CLASS AND JOB LEVELS
JOB CLASS
(Job Rate Hr Job Class underlined) A Maint/Equip Mech B Loom Fixer C Weaver D Burler/Seamer D 410 Operator D Pretacker Operator E M/C Operator
JQfttEVELS
5 6 7 8 9 5 6 7 8 9 5 6 7 8 9 5 6 7 8 9 5 6 7 8 9 5 6 7 8 9 5 6 7 8 9
10	11	12	13
10	11	12	13
10	11	12
10	11
10	n
10	11
Ifl
14
38
JOB CLASS
(Job Rate for Job Class underlined)
F Material Handler G Inspector H Yam Prep Operator I Labourer
JOB LEVELS
Employees hired below thejob rate shall progress to the nextjob level upon successful completion of the probationary or 4 month trial period and continue progression to the nextjob level every6 calendar months subjectto satisfactory performance only, until the job rate is reached.
Job Class and Premium Pay
(1)
(2)
(3)
Lead Hand
Ontario T rade Certification Journeyman Electrician
$0.80
$1.28
$1.85
First Shift Second Shift Third Shift
39
APPENDIX "B"
7:00 a.m.	3:00 p.m.
3:00 p.m.	11:00 p.m
11:00 p.m.
7:00 a.m.
40
August 27, 1996
Union of Needletrades, Industrial and Textile Employees AFL-CIO, CLC. LOCAL720T
Attention: Mr. Norman Younger cc	Mr. Brian Guitar
Dear Mr, Younger:
Re: Letter of Understanding WeekendShift
Notwithstanding any other provision in the Collective Agreement, the parties agree that the Company may implementweekend shifts on the following terms:
1)
The “WeekendShift” will consist of three 12 hour shifts, either days or nights, over three days over a regular work week as follows:
i)
ii)
Hi)
Sunday:		
Day Shift:	7:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m.	
Night Shift:	7:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m. Morning)	( Mon
Friday:		
Day Shift:	7:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m.	
Night Shift:	7:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m. Morning)	( Sat.
Saturday:		
Day Shift:	7:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m.	
Night Shift:	7:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m. Morning)	( Sun.
2)
Pay Rate: An employee assigned to a weekend shift will be paid the regular straight time rate for the appropriatejob level for all hours
41
worked plus a premium of 119th on the regular straight time rate for all hours worked and a premium of $0.25 per hourfor all hours worked. No other premiums, bonuses or other payment will be payable I connection with this shift.
3)	Overtime: An employee who is working a weekend shift in any work week, who is required to work one or more scheduled days off during that work week will be paid double the regular straight time hourly rate for all hours worked on his first scheduled day off, and time and one half the regular straight time hourly rate for all hours worked on his second, third and fourth scheduled day off.
4)	Statutory Holidays:
i)	An employee assigned to work a Weekend Shift shall be
entitled to all paid statutory Holidays noted in the Collective Agreement, it being understoodthat the Statutory Holiday pay will be comprised of 8 hours pay at the straighttime hourly rate. However if a Statutory Holiday falls on one of the three scheduledwork days for the \jveekend shift- (as noted above: Sunday, Friday or Saturday); there shall be no loss of wages and in this case, the Statutory Holiday pay will be the normal pay for the 12 hour shift. '
ii)	If a Statutory Holiday falls on one of the three regular scheduled work days (Sunday, Friday or Saturday) on the weekend shift and the employee is required to work on that day without another day off in lieu of the Statutory Holiday, the rate of pay for the day shall be one and one half the regular straighttime hourly rate of alfhours worked plus the premium calculated as in paragraph2 above.
iii)	If a Statutory Holiday falls on a day other then one of the three regular scheduled work days (Sunday, Friday or Saturday) on the weekend shift, then the employee who qualifies for this Statutory Holiday will be paid 8 hours at the regular straight time hourly rate.
43
August 27, 1996
Union of Needletrades, Industrial and Textile Employees,
AFL-CIO, CLC, LOCAL720T
Attention: Mr. Norman Younger
cc	Mr. Brian Guitar
Dear Mr. Younger:
Re: Letter of Understandingfor the Contract Period May 31, 1996 to May 31, 1999 Pension Plan
The Pension Plan will remain unchanged except as follows:
i)	Effective January 1,1996 the plan, will be amendedfor settlements effective after August 27,1996 so that the pension accrued under the plan will be upgraded to 1.75% of the average of the 1993,1994
42
5)	General: Apart from the foregoing, in all other circumstances, the
collective agreement applies in the same manner as it does to all other employees.
Dated at Hamilton, Ontario on the 27th of August, 1996.
Porritts & Spencer Canada Inc.
W. Hargreaves Sergio F. Merolli H.E. Standish
Union of Needletrades, Industrial and Textile Employees,
AFL-CIO, CLC, Local 720T
Brian Guitar
Callum MacKenzie
Sharlene Kamara
Rita Henderson
Ontario Joint Council
Norman Younger,
Regional Representative
Callum MacKenzie Sharlene Kamara Rita Henderson Ontario Joint Council
Norman Younger, Regional Representative
43
August 27, 1996
Union of Needletrades, Industrial and Textile Employees,
AFL-CIO, CLC. LOCAL720T
Attention: Mr. Norman Younger
cc	Mr. Brian Guitar
Dear Mr. Younger:
Re: Letter of Understandingfor the Contract Period May 31, 1996 to May 31,1999 Pension Plan
The Pension Plan will remain unchanged except as follows:
i)	Effective January 1, 1996 the plan, will be amendedfor settlements effective after August 27, 1996 so that the pension accrued under the plan will be upgraded to 1.75% of the average of the 1993, 1994 and 1995 for all credited pensionableservice in the plan as at January 1,1996.
ii)	Effective September 1,1996, the pension plan becomes an noncontributory plan.
Dated at Hamilton, Ontario on the 27th of August, 1996.
Porritts & Spencer Canada Inc.
Walter Hargreaves Sergio F. Merolli H.E. Standish
44
Union of Needletrades,Industrial and Textile Employees, AFL-CIO, CLC, Local 720T
Brian Guitar
Callum MacKenzie
Sharlene Kamara
Rita Henderson
Ontario Joint Council
Norman Younger,
Regional Representative
45
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
August 27, 1996
Union of Needletrades,Industrial and Textile Employees, AFL-CIO, CLC, Local 720T
Attention: Mr. N. Younger
cc. Brian Guitar
DearMr. Younger:
RE: Red Circle Rates
The Pay Equity Plan signed June 16,1993, Item 1(5), stated that the red circled rate
administration was to be addressed at the next Collective agreement negotiating
session.
The terms regarding the administration of Red Circled rates are as follows:
1)	During the Contract period May 31, 1996toMay31, 1999, the increasesfor those whose rates are red circled will receive the following adjustment to the hourly rate in the collective agreement which terminated May 30, 1996.
May31, 1996 - $0.30 cents per hour
May 31, 1997 -$0.20 cents per hour
Junel, 1998 - $0.20 cents per hour
2)	Thereafter, the red circle rates will be adjusted at one half (112) the amount of the rate increase for each job class negotiated in each subsequent period.
3)	The red circled rates and the policy of adjusting them will remain in effect until the regular rate for the Job Class reaches the Red circled rate for that Job Class at which time the policy for adjusting red circled rates will no longer apply.
Dated at Hamilton, Ontario on the 27th of August, 1996.
46
Porritts & Spencer Canada Inc.
Walter Hargreaves Sergio Merolli H.E. Standish
Union of Needletrades, Industrial and Textile Employees, AFL-CIO, CLC, Local 720T
Brian Guitar	Sharlene Kamara
Callum MacKenzie	Rita Henderson
Ontario Joint Council
Norman Younger Regional Representative
47
August 27, 1996
Union of Needletrades, Industrial and Textile Employees, AFL-CIO, CLC, Local 720T
Attention: Mr. N. Younger
cc. Brian Guitar
Dear Mr. Younger:
Re:	Letter of Understanding for the Contract Period
May 31,1996 to May 31,1999 Health Benefits for Employeeson Early Retirement
The health and dental group insurance coverage will continue for those employees who qualify and who take early retirement under the terms set forth in article 17,05 (c) of the collective agreement ratified August 27, 1996, and such coverage will continue from the date of early retirement until the end of the month in which they reach age 65 at which time coverage shall cease. All other benefits except Life Insurance as described in article 17.03(f) terminate on retirement.
For purposes of clarity the Extended Health Care Coverage remains the same as per the Booklet printed in November 1990 except that:
i) there is a limit of $10,000 per person per calendar year for private duty nursing care.
jj)	Deluxe Travel: No coverage while outside Canada.
iii)	Dental Care Coverage remains the same as in the Booklet printed in November 1990 exceptthat there is:
a)	No deductible;
b)	80% co-insurance (ie: The insurance pays 80% of the billing from the 1993 ODA Schedule of Fees, the retiree paying the remainder);
c)	$750 maximum per person per calendaryear.
48
Dated at Hamilton, Ontario on the 27th of August, 1996. Porritts & Spencer Canada Inc.
Walter Hargreaves Sergio Merolli H.E. Standish
Union of Needletrades, Industrial and Textile Employees, AFL-CIO, CLC, Local 720T
Brian Guitar	Sharlene Kamara
Callum MacKenzie	Rita Henderson
Ontario Joint Council
Norman Younger Regional Representative