AND,
“AFli-GlO-GUC ‘ local 1684
ALEXANDRIA
Him

THIS AGREEMENT made and entered into this 30th day of October 1991.
BETWEEN:
CONSOLTEX INC.
hereinafter called the "Company" OF THE FIRST PART
- and -
THE AMALGAMATED CLOTHING AND TEXTILE WORKERS UNION
A.F.L.-C.I.O.-C.L.C. on its own behalf and on behalf cf its Local 1664
hereinafter called the "Union"
OF THE SECOND PART
Effectivefrom July 1,1991 to June 30, 1994
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ARTICLE
EASE
I	Purpose
II	Recognition
III	Relationship
IV	Management Rights
V	Plant Executive Committee
VI	Grievance Procedure
VII	Arbitration
IX	Discharge and Discipline Cases
X	No Strikes-No Lockouts
XI	Wages
XII	Hours of Work and Overtime
XIII	Vacation with Pay
XIV	Statutory Holidays
XV	Seniority
XVI	Transfers
XVII	Bulletin Boards
XVIII	Leave of Absence
XIX	General
XX	Deduction f Union Dues
XXI	Letters of Agreement
XXII	Wage Rates
XXIII	Shift Premiums
XXIV	Rest Periods
XXV	Termination
XXX	Wfeekend Shift
1
1
1
2
4
6
8
10
11
12
12
16
18
20
27
29
29
32
37
38
38
39 39
dip
APPENDIX A
1	Job Classification and Rates	42
2	Overtime Scheduling Procedures	46
3	Letters of Agreement	50
ARTICLE I
PURPOSE
1.01	The general purpose of this agreement is to establish mutually satisfactory relations between the company and its employees and to provide machinery for the prompt and equitable disposition of grievancesandto establish and maintain satisfactory working conditions, hoursofworkandwagesforall employees who are subjectto the provisions of this agreement.
ARTICLE II RECOGNITION
2.01	The Company recognizes the Union as the sole collective bargaining agent for all employees of the Company at Alexandria, Ontario, save and except shift foremen, persons abovetherankof shift foremen, chiefstationary engineer, managementtrainees, switchboard receptionist, mainoffice andsales staff and guards.
All employees in the exempt classifications above shall not do the work of union members, except inthe event of an emergency, or for training purposes or for experimental work
ARTICLE III RELATIONSHIP
3.01	The Company agrees to make reasonable arrangements to afford an opportunity to
1
membersofthe Plant Executive Committee to interview new employees on the completion of their probationary period with a view to informing such new employees as to the contents of this agreement respecting union security. The Union and the members of the Plant ExecutiveCommittee agree to cooperate with the Company in this regard.
3.02	The Company agreesthat no employee shall in any manner be discriminated against or coerced, restrained or influencedon account of membership or non-membership in any labour activity or lack of activity in any labour organization.
3.03	The Unionagrees itwill not discriminate against, coerce, restrain or influence any employee because of his membershipor non-membership, his activity or his lack of activity in any labour organization.
3.04	The Union will not engage in union activities during working hours or hold meetingsat any time on the premises of the Company without the permission of the Plant Manager or his designates.
ARTICLE IV
MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
4.01	The Unionrecognizesandacknowledgesthat the management of the plant and direction of the working force are fixed exclusively in the Companyand without restrictingthe general-
2
ity of the foregoing, the Union acknowledges that it i sthe exclusivefunctionofthe Company to:
a)	maintain order, discipline and efficiency:
b)	classify, hire, promote, demote, transfer, suspend and terminate employees and to discipline cr discharge any employee for cause, providedthataclaimbyanemployeewho has acquired seniority that he has been discharged or disciplined without reasonable cause may bethesubjectofagrievance anddealtwith as hereinafter provided:
c)	make, enforce and alter from time to time rules and regulations to be observed by the employees, but before putting such rules and regulations into force the Company will discuss them with the Union Committee:
d)	determine the nature and kind of business conducted by the Company, the kinds and locations of equipment, tools andmaterialsto be used, thecontrolofmateriaisandparts, the methods and techniques of work, the schedules and rates of production, the number of employees to be employed, the extension, limitation, curtailment or cessation of operations, or any part thereof and to determine all other functions and prerogatives which shall remain solely with the Company except as specifically limited by the provisions of this agreement.
3
4.02	It is agreed that during the lifetime of this agreement the Company shall not conduct an organized time study.
4.03	Itisagreedandunderstoodthatnoneofthese rights shall be exercised in a manner inconsistent with the express provisions of this agreement.
4.04	Where the Provincial Law overrulesthe Collective Agreement, the Company will abide, e.g.: Pregnancy Leave & Parental Leave.
ARTICLE V
PLANT EXECUTIVECOMMITTEE
5.01	The Company acknowledges the right of the
Union to select a plant executive committee, seven (7) in number. The Union may also elect or appoint four (4) stewards on day shift and two (2)stewards on each of the afternoon and night shifts as follows:
Production Planning - 1 steward (day shift) Shipping, Receiving and Warehouse, Laboratory, Maintenance - 1 steward (per shift) Finishing, Coating - 1 steward (per shift) Inspection and Maintenance (afternoon and night shift) - 1 steward (per shift)
Dyehouse and Greige - 1 steward (pershift)
Each member of the above committee and all stewards shall have seniority with the Company and shall be regular employees of the Company during their time cf office. The Company will recognize and bargain with the
4
	said committee on any matter properlyarising out of this agreement and the said committee will cooperate with the Company in the administration of this agreement.
5.02	The name and jurisdictionof each of the stewards and the names of the executive members from time to time selected shall be given to the Company in writing and the Company shall not be required to recognize any such steward or executive member untilit has been notified inwriting by the Union ofthe name and jurisdiction of same.
5.03	The Company undertakes to instruct all members of its supervisory staff to cooperate with the stewards and executive members in the carrying out ofthe terms and requirements of this agreement.
5.04	The Union undertakesto secure from its officers, stewards and executive members their cooperation with the Company and with all persons representingthe Company in a supervisory capacity.
5.05	The privileges of one (1) stewardandthree (3) executive members to leave their work without loss of basic pay to attendto union business in the plant is granted on the following conditions:
	a) such business must be between the Union and Management; 5
	b) the time shall be devoted to the prompt handling of necessary Union business:
	c) the steward or executive member and the employee concerned shall obtain permission of the foreman concerned before leaving their work. Such permission shall be granted if sufficient notice is given;
	d) thetimeawayfrom productiveworkshallbe reportedin accordance with thetime-keeping methods cf the department inwhich the steward or executive member is employed.
5.06	Under normal circumstances, executive members meet onceper month. Occasionally circumstances arise which require additional meetings. The Company agrees that time off without pay to attend such meetings shall be granted and the Union agrees that proper notice of such meetings shall be given to the Company and that no more than two (2) executive members shall be absent from any one department to attend such meetings.
	ARTICLE VI GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
6.01	The parties of this agreement are agreed that it is of the utmost importance to adjust complaints and grievances as quickly as possible.
6.02	No grievance shall be considered where the circumstances giving rise to it occurred or originated more than five (5fu\\working days 6
before filing of thegrievance.
6.03	Grievancesproperlyarisingunderthisagree-ment shall be adjusted and settled as follows:
Step 1
The aggrieved employee shall present his grievance orally or in writing to his foreman. Heshall havethe assistance of his stewardor an executive member if he so desires. If a settlement satisfactory to the employee con-cernedis not reached within two (2) workirt^, days (or any longer period which may be mutually agreed upon) the grievance may be presented as follows at any time withintwo (2) working days thereafter.
Step 2
The aggrieved employeewith his steward or an executive member, may presenthis grievance (which shall be reducedto writing on a form supplied by the Union and approved by the Company) to the Plant Manager or his designate, who shall consider it in the presence of the person or persons presenting same, and the foreman, and render his decision inwriting. Should nosettlement satisfactory to the employeebereached withintwo (2) working days, the next step in the grievance proceduremay betaken at anytime within two (2) working days thereafter.
Step 3
Theaggrievedemployeemaysubmithisgrie-vance inwritingtothe Plant Executive Com-
7
mittee. A maximum of three (3) members of this Committee shall meetwith the management to considerthe grievance. Such meeting shall be held within ten (10) days of the grievance being presented to the Company. At this stage, they may be accompanied by a representativeof the InternationalOrganiza-tion if his or her presence is requested by either party.
6.04	Iffinal settlement of the grievance is not completed within seven (7) working days after deliberations have commenced and if the grievance may be referred by either party to the single arbitrator as provided in Article VII below, at any time within twenty-one (21) days thereafter, but no later.
6.05	Any difference arising directly between the Companyand the Union regarding an alleged violation of this agreement may be submitted in writing by either party pursuant to this Article at Step No. 3 of the Grievance Procedure and ultimately to arbitrationif necessary.
ARTICLE VII ARBITRATION
7.01	Both parties to this agreement agree that any
dispute or grievance concerning the interpretation or alleged violation of the agreement, which has been properly carried through all the steps of the grievance procedure outlined in Article VI above, and which has not been settled, will be referredto a single arbitrator at
8
	the request of either of the parties hereto.
7.02	The Minister of Labour of the Province of Ontariowill be askedto nominatea member of the judiciary of the Province of Ontario to act as single arbitrator.
7.03	The decision of the single arbitrator shall be binding on both parties.
7.04	The single arbitrator shall not have any power to alter or change any of the provisionsof this agreementor to substitute any new provisions for any existing provisions, nor give any decision inconsistent with the terms and provisions of this agreement.
7.05	Each of the partiesto this agreement will bear the expenses of the single arbitrator appointed by the Minister of Labour.
7.06	Ai any stage of the grievance procedure including arbitration, the conferring parties may have the assistance of the employee or employees concerned, any necessary witnesses, relevant records, and all reasonable arrangements will be made to permit the conferring parties to have access to the plant to view disputed operations and to confer with necessary witnesses.
	ARTICLE VIII NON-EXISTENT 9
ARTICLE IX
DISCHARGE AND DISCIPLINE CASES
9.01	Employees will not be discharged except for just cause. When an employee, who has attained seniority, is discharged, written notification shall begiventotheemployeeandto his steward or to a member of the plant executive committee and to the local union secretary. In the event of an employee who has attained seniority being discharged from employment and the employee feeling that an injustice has been done, the case may be taken up as a grievance.
9.02	All such cases shall be taken up within three (3)working days and disposed of within seven (7) days of the datethe employee is notifiedof his discharge, except where a case istaken to arbitration. A claim by an employee, who has attained seniority, that he has been unjustly discharged from his employment shall be treated as a grievance if a written statementof such grievance is lodged with the Plant Manager or his designate within three (3) working days after the employee ceases to work for the Company. All preliminary steps of the grievance procedure priorto step No. 2 will be omitted in such case.
9.03	Such special grievances may be settled by confirming the management's action in dismissing the employee or by reinstating the employee with full compensationfor time lost,
10
	or by any other arrangement which isjust and equitable in the opinion of the conferring parties.
9.04	When an employee has been dismissedwith-out notice, he shall havethe rightto interview his steward for a reasonable period of time before leavingthe plant premises.
9.05	The following provisions shall apply with respect to discipline and discharge:
	a) any written warning or discipline or discharge slip will be issued in triplicate, one copygoingto the employee, the Unionand the Company respectively;
	b) if a disciplined employee deems he has been disciplined without cause, he may have access to his Union representative and appeals from the Company's decision to discipline must be submitted in writing by the Union within seven (7)days following the discipline. Such appeals shall start with the third step of the Grievance Procedure.
	c) all warning slips shall be void if, after six (6) months, no similar offence has occurred.
	ARTICLE X NO STRIKES - NO LOCKOUTS
10.01	Inview of the orderly proceduresestablished by this agreement for the settling of disputes and the handling of grievances, the Union 11
	agrees that, during the life of this agreement, there will be no strike, picketing, slowdown or stoppage of work, and the Company agrees that there will be no lockout.
10.02	The Company shall have the right to discharge or otherwise discipline employees who take part in or instigate any strike, picketing, stoppage or slowdown, but a claim of unjust discharge or treatment may be subject to a grievanceand dealt with as provided inArticle VI above.
10.03	Should the Union claim that a cessation of work constitutes a lockout, it may take the matter up with the Company as provided in Section 6.03 of Article VI.
	ARTICLE XI WAGES
11.01	During the term of this agreement, the Company and the Union agree that all payments cf wages will be made in accordance with the wage rates set forth inthe attachedjob Classification list, which is hereby made a part cf this agreement.
	ARTICLE XII HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
12.01	The following paragraphs and sections are intended to define the normal hours cf work and shall not be construed as a guarantee of hours of work per day or per week or of days
	12
of work per week.
12.02	a) Day
The day ioconsideredto be from 12:01 a.m. to midnight.
The work week isfrom 12:01 am. Sundayto Saturday midnight.
c)	Day Work
8:00 am. to4:00p.m, Mondaythrough Friday consisting of eight (8) hours per day inclusive of one half (1/2) hour paid lunch break forty (40) hours per week
d)	Shiftwork
12:01 a.m. Monday to midnight Friday, consisting of eight (8) hours per day inclusive of athirty (30)minute paid lunch break forty (40) hours per week: maintenanceoperation shall be considered as shift work.
e)	If the Company wishes to institute a regularly scheduled seven (7) day week in additional areas to those presently in force, the Company and the Union must mutually agree tothetermsofthechange before itcomesinto effect.
12.03	a) All work performed beyondthe normal working day and all work performed in off-scheduled hours shallbepaidfor at the rate of time and one-half (1 - 1/2) excepting that all work performedon Sundayshallbe paid at the
13
rate of double (2) time.
b)	All overtime rates shall’ be based on the employees' basic rate plus shift premium, where applicable.
c)	In the event an employee agrees in working two (2) full consecutive shifts, the Company agrees to provide such employee with a paid one half (1/2) hour break at the beginning of his overtime shifts, during which time he may leave the plant.
12.04	When a machine operator or a rotatingmain-tenance shift worker does not report for duty and sufficient prior notice has not been received, the operator or the rotating maintenance worker shall remain on duty if no volunteers are available or until a replacement is obtained or up to a maximum of two (2) hours. That employee shall not be required to work more than four (4) hours of overtime in any calendar week.
The above employee who is required to stay back into the next shift less than fifteen (15) minutes on overtime shall be paid fifteen (15) minutes at straight time.
The above employee who works overtime for fifteen (15) minutes or more, that employee shall be paid time and one half (1 - 1/2) his hourly rate to the nearestquarter(1/4) hour.
12.05	All work performed on Saturday between
14
12:01 am. and12:00midnightshallbepaidat
the rate of time and one half (1 - 1/2) without regard to the number of hours worked.
Ail work performed an Sundays between 12:01 a.m. and12:00 midnight on the said Sunday shall be paid at the rate of double time (2) without regardto the numberofhoursworked.
Neitherthe Saturday premiumnorthe Sunday premium as the aforesaid, shall apply to jobs having a regularly scheduled seven (7jday week.
12.06	The Company agrees that the working of overtime is a voluntary matter, the decision resting with the individual, exceptwhen 12:04 applies.
12.07	All opportunitiesfor overtimeshall be offered by seniority on an equitable basis with due regard to experience and skill.
A list will be posted weekly from Sunday to T uesday for those employees in each department who wish to work overtime in the pro-ceedingweek The Company shall usethislist for planning employee overtime if required as sostipulatedintheparagraphofArticle12.07.
An employee who agrees to work scheduled overtime and does not work the overtime, that employee shall miss the next opportunity to overtime, unless the employee can providean acceptable reason for his absenteeism.
15
12.08	Maintenance employee(s) who are working on a machine breakdown (emergency)these employees will be asked on a voluntary basis to work a maximum of two (2) hours overtime to repair breakdownof production equipment. The Union agrees to wave seniority rights for
these...(emergency repairs). In the event
employee(s) above refuses overtime, paragraph one (1) of Article 12.07 shall prevail.
12.09	Overtimeshall be applied as per clause 12.07 and 12.08 with the exception of the departments referred to in the Overtime Scheduling Procedure Incorporated in the agreement Appendix A.
ARTICLE XIII VACATION WITH PAY
13.01 The following vacation schedule shall apply:
Seniority	Duration of Vacation	Vacation Pay
0 to 2 years	2 weeks	4.5%
2 to 5 years	3 weeks	6.0%
5 to 10 years	3 weeks	8.0%
10 to 15 years	4 weeks	9.0%
15 to 20 years	4 weeks	10.0%
20 years and over	5 weeks	11.0%
It is understoodthatthevacation pay percentage refers to the employee's earnings during the twelve (12) months immediately preceding July 1st of that year, and distribution as
16
follows:
All employees shall receive their vacation pay percentage the week preceding the annual shutdown. Exception will be made for employees who have mutually agreed with the Company to take their additional vacation week(s) prior and directly attached to that shutdown, in this case the employee shall receive his vacation percentage the week before his schedule vacation. This exception covers the period between July 1st to the shutdown only.
ADDITIONAL VACATION YEAR PERIOD LIMITATION
Jhe additional week(s) vacation shall be applied and defined as continuousservice completed prior to July 1st.
i.e.
Seniority earned during the twelve (12) months immediately preceding July 1 st of that year.
Concrete Example
First day of service: September 18th, 1977.
Two years service completed: September18th, 1979.
This employee would be entitled to three (3) weeks vacation on July 1, 1980 only. This employeewould be able to take his additional week(s) holiday (at mutual convenience ofthe
17
Company) between July 1st, 1980 to June 30th, 1981.
It is further understood that whenever possible, the employee shall take his vacation duringthe annual plant shutdownandthat any additional vacation shall be taken at mutual convenience of the Company and the employee. This (these) additionalweek(s) shall be taken from July 1st to June 30th. In the event that the plant will be closedfor three (3) consecutive weeks for the annual summer plant shutdownthe employeeshall be notified on or before May 1st previous to the shutdown.
ARTICLEXIV STATUTORY HOLIDAYS
14.01	All employees who have attained seniority shall receive paymentfor the following statutory holidays:
Dominion Day
The First Monday in August
Labour Day
Thanksgiving Day
Remembrance Day
Christmas Day
Boxing Day
New Year's Day
January 2
Good Friday
Victoria Day
18
In addition to this, the employees will benefit from two (2) days pay without time off, of which one is to be included in the last pay beforeChristmasand the other one inthe pay of theweek ending the 2nd week of February.
The second day's pay will apply only starting in February of the year 1982. Such payment shall be based on the employee's regular currenthourly ratemultipliedbythe number of hourshe would normally have worked on such day, subject to the following conditions:
a)	On the work day immediately preceding or immediatelyfollowingthe statutory holiday, if the employee is late more than one-half (1/2) hour at the beginning of his shift a correspondingtime, in one quarter (1/4) hour increments, shall be deductedfrom his statutory holiday pay up to a maximum of two (2) hours late. After two (2) hours late no payment for the statutory holiday shall be made.
b)	If the employee does not report for work cr does not complete his shift on the work day preceding or immediatelyfollowing the statutory holiday, no payment shall be made unless he is absent with the permissionof the management, or through sickness certified by a doctor's statement, or in receiptof Workmen's Compensation benefits, provided such ab-senceshall not exceed ten (1O) working days.
c)	If an employee works on one of the above named paid statutory holidays, he shall re-
19
	ceive payment at time and one-half (1-1/2) for the time actually worked by him in addition to receiving his holiday pay.
	d) When a statutory holiday falls on a nonworking day or during a plant shutdown, a (1) day shall be granted in lieu of the statutory holiday. That day shall be the first normal working day following the aforementioned statutory holiday. For all intent and purposes this day in lieu shall be considered as a statutory holiday.
	ARTICLE XV SENIORITY
15.01	In all cases of promotion other than a promotion to a position outside the bargaining unit the followingfactors shall be considered skill, competence, efficiency, reliability and seniority. It is understood that where the factors referred to above other than seniority, are relatively equal, then seniority shall govern.
15.02	An employeetransferred to anotherjob or recalled to anotherjob in accordance with 15.01 above, shall have a period of ten (1O) working days to reach normal proficiencyon the job, if normal proficiency i s not obtained in ten (10) working days, the employee will return to his or her former job.
15.03	In the evaluation of the factor in 15.01 the Company shall be the judge, provided however, that if the employee believesthat proper
	20
consideration of his skill, competence, efficiency and reliability have not been given, he may file a grievance under the provisions of Article VI, claimingthat the Company acted i n arbitrary, unfair or unfairly discriminatory manner. In any such evaluation the Company and the Union shalldiscuss the situation prior to the announcement of the decision.
15.04	An employee will be considered probationary for the first thirty (30) working days accumu-latedover a six (6) month period and will have noseniority rightsduringthatthirty (30)work-ing days service, accumulated over a six (6) month period, his seniority shall date back to the day on which employment began.
15.05	Seniority shall terminate when an employee:
a)	quits for any reason
b)	is discharged and is not reinstatedthrough the grievance procedure or arbitration;
c)	has been on layoff for a continuous period of
-	twelve (12) months with 0 to 5 years seniority
-	eighteen (18) months with 5 years and over seniority
d)	who has been on layoff for a continuous period of less than twelve (12) months or eighteen (18) months depending on their seniority and who, when notifiedby registered
21
mail addressed to the last address he has recorded with the Company, fails to notify the Company within five (5) working days that he is intending to return to work as soon as possible after receiving notice and in any event within seven (7) days of mailing or other communications of such notice, unless he shows that he is prevented from notifying the Company or from reporting for work by a legitimate sickness or other reasonable cause.
e)	fails, to returnto work immediately after the expiration of a leave of absence unless prevented from doing so by illness or other cause which is reasonable:
f)	is absent from work for more than three (3) consecutive working days unless absent due to verifiable illness or unless there was reasonable justification for such absence.
15.06	a) Layoffsand recallsfrom lay offs shall be conducted by department according to the divisional seniority of the employees in such department as may be affected. In the event of a layoff of fourteen (14) days or less employees shall be laid off by divisional seniority in each department so affected. The remaining employees could be assigned new jobs temporarily to do work remaining in the affected departments. In such an instance no employee would be paid less than his normal rate of pay and inthecasewhereanemployee istransferredto a higher ratejob, they shall be paid that higher rate.
22
b)	Should a layoff occur which appears likely to the Company to exceedfourteen (14)days, the week and weekend employees would be combined together and the Company would proceedto lay off the mostjuniorexployee(s) in his division.
The Company has the sole right to ask the mostjunioremployee(s)to moveto the weekend shift.
c)	In the event an employee is not able to displace the mostjunior employee in his division, that employee shall bump the (2nd) second most junior employee in his division, the the third (3rd) mostjunior employee in his division etc., until that employee finds a job into which he can bump, provided he has the seniority to do so.
d)	Employeeswho have been forced to leave their departments because of a cutback and have exercised their bumping rights, shall have recall rights to their former jobs for a period of eighteen (18) months.
e)	Recall rights shall be lost if:
a)	the employee refused recall; or
b)	the employee applies for and is awarded a j posted job; or
c)	the employee quits the Company
23
Converting Division:
Shipping, Receiving &Warehouse Greige Dyeing Finishing
Coating Inspection Production Planning Laboratory
Maintenance Division:
Maintenance
The above shall be subject to the qualifications referred to in clause 15.01.
15.07	An employee shall accumulate seniority under any of the following conditions.
a)	while he is at work for the Company, after he has completed his probationary period as set out in 15.04;
b)	during any period when he is prevented from performing his work for the Company by reason of injury arising out of and in the course of his employment for the Company and for which he is receiving compensation underthe provisions of the Workmen's Compensation Act.
15.08	An employee who does not qualify to accumulate seniority under Section 15.07 shall maintainhis existingseniority unless and until he loses same pursuantto Section 15.05.
24
15.09	An employee's return to work after sick leave will be conditional on his supplying, when requested, a certificate from a physician that he is fully recovered from the sickness which caused his absence.
15.10	Seniority as referred to in this agreement shall mean length of continuous service in the employ of the Company and shall be on a divisional basis namely length of continuous serviceinone (1) of the two (2) divisionsofthe Company atAlexandriath at isthe Converting Division andthe Maintenance Division. Separate seniority lists shall be established for each of the two (2) divisions.
15.11	Thetwo (2)separatelistswill be revisedeach six (6)months. Copies of the lists will be posted in the plant and a copy given to the Union. After the posting of the first seniority lists of employees, thelistsshall be deemedto be conclusive, unless objectedto within fourteen (14) days.
15.12	All new jobs and all original permanentva-cancies in existingjobs shall be posted in the plant for a period of three (3)working days before being permanentlyfilled and employees in the bargaining unit may make application for such jobs. In the filling of these jobs, the Company shall not be confined to the applicants in filling the vacancy. I n all cases, the provisionsof Article 15.01 shall apply. It is the intention of the parties hereto to fill new jobs and permanent vacancies, if possible
25
from among employees in the bargaining unit.
When a change of job has been obtained by bidding procedure, no further bid can be made until a period of five (5) months has elapsed. This is subject to the provisions of Article 15.02.
Anew employeemust acquirefive (5) months seniority in the position hired, before the employee has the right to bid on any job posted.
15.13	In the event that an employee covered by the
agreement should be promoted to a supervisory or confidentialposition beyondthe scope of this agreement and is l ater transferred to a position within the scope of this agreement, he shall retain the seniority previously acquired and shall have added thereto the seniority accumulated while serving in such supervisory or confidentialcapacity. Thisapplies to a period up to six (6)months served in the supervisory or confidentialcapacity. After the above six months have been applied the employee shall have lost seniority for purposes of layoff, promotion, etc., but shall maintain seniority for calculation of vacation pay and any other benefits which may be in effect at the time. Up to the six (6) month period, if the employee or Company refuses the above mentioned position, the employee shall returnto their priorjob. The replacement employee goes to the junior position in their
26
department, if the employee has sufficient seniority, failing this, to the mostjunior job in the employee's division.
ARTICLE XVI TRANSFERS
16.01	Ina case of a permanenttransfer or ajob obtained by bidding for a posted job, the employee shall receive the following rate:
a)	if the rate for the newjob is higher than the previous rate, the employee shall receive the new rate before a maximum of thirty (30) working days;
b)	if the rate for the newjob is lower, the employeeshall receivethe newrate'immedi-ately,
16.02	An employeewho, fortheconvenienceofthe Company, is temporarily transferred to another job for which the rate of pay is different from that ineffectfor such employee'sregular job, shall be paid while so employed as follows:
a)	if the rate of pay for the job to which he is transferred is higher than the employee's regular pay, he shall receive his own higher rate of pay;
b)	if the minimum rate of the range for the job to which he is transferred is higher than the employee's regular pay, he shall receive the
27
minimum rate or if the employee displays efficiency, skill or ability relatively equalto that of the employee performingthe job to which he is transferred, a rate commensurate with that being paid to such employees.
16.03	An employeewhoforthe convenienceand benefit of the employee, is temporarilytrans-ferred to another job because of a lay-off in the plant due to lack of work, breakdown of machinery or other like cause, shall be paid, while so employed as follows:
a)	If the rate of pay for the job to which he is transferred is less than the employee'sregu-lar pay, he shall receivethe lower rate paidfor the job to which he is transferred;
b)	If the rate of pay for the job to which he is transferred is higher than the employee's regular pay, he shall receive such higher rate providedthat he displays sufficientefficiency, skill, and ability to perform the job to which he is transferred, and until such time as he displays such efficiency, skill, or ability, he shall continueto receive his own regular rate.
16.04	Notwithstandingthe foregoing, it is understood and agreed betweenthe parties that in the event of a transfer for less than a full shift, the employee will receive his regular rate of pay for the balance of the shift.
28
ARTICLE XVII BULLETIN BOARDS
17.01	The Company will provide bulletin boards in mutually satisfactory locationsthroughout the plant, which are available for the Union in posting notices of Union activities.
17.02	All such notices must be signed by the proper officers of the Union and submitted to the Plant Manager or his designate for approval before posting.
ARTICLE XVIII LEAVE OF ABSENCE
18.01 The Company will grant leave of absence
without pay to not more than three (3) employees inthe bargaining unit to attend Union conventions or conferences, and it is agreed by the Union that in selecting the members everyeffortwillbe made to avoid affectingthe production of the plant, and the time so requested will be kepttothe minimum.
In the case of a union school, the Company agrees to grant a leave of absence to the executive members and stewards who are on duty duringthetime of school provided that sufficient written-notice is given to the Company. It is further agreed that such union school sessions will be of not more than one
(1)	day at a time and shall be limited to twice
(2)	per year.
29
18.02	a) The Companywillgrant a leave of absence
to any employee for legitimate personal reasons, provided sufficient notice is given so Ihat management can arrange the work schedule so as to avoid significant loss of production. Request for leave of absence by employees at Alexandria, must be in writing to the Plant Manager or his designate, with reason clearly stated and reply will be given in writing. Any leave of absence granted by the Company to such employees shall be limited to three (3) months with provision made for return to their regular job when leave of absence expires. An extension of a further three (3) months can be applied for and, if granted, it is with the understandingthat the employee will accept any job that may be available, in the event that his previously held job has been satisfactorilyfilled. An employee shall nottakeemploymentelsewherewhileon a leave of absence without the consent of the Company.
b)	When an employee returns from a leave of absence inside a three (3) month period with authorization, this employee will return to his original job and every other employee who have signed postings concerning this leave of absence shall also return to their original job.
The five (5) month waiting period for signing a posting will be void when they return to their originaljob. This meansthatthese employees will be able to sign for future postings.
30
If the employee does not returnfrom his leave of absence, employees who have signed the posting identified as a leave of absence, automatically get the job and have two (2) months left before being able to sign another posting. This should be beneficial for the employees and the Company, especially for small departments.
18.03	If an employee overstays his leave of absence, he is presumed to have severed employmentwith the Company, unlesshe can give a satisfactory explanationfor hisinability to return to work on the expiry date of his leave of absence.
18.04	If an employeefindsthat heisunableto report to work hewill notify the Plant Manager or his designate or foreman at Alexandria as the case may be, if possible beforethe start of his shift, or as soon thereafter as possible. If absence is due to illnessof the employee and is to exceed seven (7) days, the leave of absence will be given in writing by the Company.
This leave of absence will be granted with the understandingthat the employee will returnto work when physicallycapableof doing so, but in any case, such leave of absence may not exceed one (1) year. If the case so warrants, further extensions will be granted thereafter.
18.05	If an employee is absent for more than three
(3)consecutive working days, without proper
31
	notificationto the Company, he is presumed to have severed employment with the Company, unless he can giveasatisfactoryexpla-nation for his inabilityto providethis notification and for his inability to return to work.
18.06	A copy of all leaves of absence shall be sent to the Union.
18.07	in the event that an employee is injured while on duty, that employeewill be paid at straight time for the remainder of his shift if said employee must leave the plant for medical treatment and can provide reasonable evidence that he is unable to return to work for the remainder of his shift.
	Inthe event that an employee is injured during an overtime shift, that employee shall be paid at the overtime rate up to the time of injury and the balance of the shift at the base rate, ifthat employee is unable to return to work.
	ARTICLEXIX GENERAL
19.01	During the lifetime of this agreementthe Companyagreestopaythe full cost of Ontario Health Insurance (O.H.i.P.) premiumsappli-cableto employeesinthe bargainingunitwho have attained seniority.
19.02	In the event of the death of a member of an employee's family, the emplcyee will be granted aleaveofabsenceandbereimbursedfortime
	32
necessarily lost from work according to the schedule below. This allowance will only be made where the circumstances require the employee's absence from work and the last day of the funeral and the employee shall be in attendance.
Up to four (4) days leave of absence— mother, father, wife, husband and child.
Up to three (3) days leave of absence--
sister, brother, mother-in-law, fathe-in-law, stepmother, step-father, step-mother-inlaw, step-father-in-law, legal guardian.
Up to one (1) day leave of absence-----
grand-parents, sister-in-law, brother-in-law. A sister-in-law or brother-in-law is considered to be the spouse of the brother or sister of the employee.
19.03	An employee otherthan a maintenanceem-ployee who has completed his regular shift, leaves the plant andisthen recalledto work, shallreceive a minimum ofthree (3)hourspay attime and one-half (1 1/2) his basic rate.
19.04	Employeesreportingfor work as ususal on a regular working day, unless notified by the previous day not to report and for whom no work at his regular job is available, shall be offered at leastfour (4) hours' employment in other work at the employee's current rate of wages, or at the Company's option, will be paid four (4) hours' pay in lieu of work. This
33
provision shall not apply if the failure to provide work is caused by reason of a strike or other work stoppage, machinery breakdown, fire, flood, power failure or other like cause beyond the control of the Company.
19.05	Maintenance employees who are called into work to effect emergency repairs or emergency maintenance are subject to the following conditions:
a)	they shall remain in the plant available for work for a minimum of one (1) hour;
b)	they shall be paid for a minimum of two (2) hours at time and one-half (1 1/2);
c)	all hours worked in excess of two (2) hours on a speoiific call-in shall be paid for at the applicable rate provided for by the collective agreement:
d)	if the employee punches in priorto 7:01 a.m. conditions (a), (b) and (c) shall apply;
e)	if the employee punches in after 7:00 a.m. he shall be paid at the rate of time and one-half (1 1/2) up to his scheduled starting time (usually 8:00 a.m.). Inthiscase, pay calculation shall be madeonthe basisof the nearest quarter (1/4) hour.
f)	A maintenance employee on a call-in shall be paid travel allowance of one (1) additional hour at this regular rate of pay.
34
19.06	It is agreed that there will be ajoint effort by the Union and management to make certain that every employee is aware of the hazardous chemicals in the plant.
19.07	a) The Company shall provide all protection clothing and safety equipment for employees who work with hazardous chemicals.
b) That the Company shall supply protective clothingfor the Coating department employees. FinishingKitchen employees, Dyehouse Kitchen employees, Receiving employees, Maintenance employees and Allocators. It is understood that the Company by supplying these protective clothing is expecting the employees to wear them. If an employee refuses to wear these protective clothing, the nexttime he asks for protective clothing it will be denied. And also to replace these protective clothing the old one will have to be returned to receive a new one.
19.08	Any major change or any substantial change in the work loads shall be discussed in depth with the union executive and a representative of the InternationalUnion.
If the Company and the Union are unable to agree on the proposed change or substantial change in work loads, the Company may institutesuch change or substantialchange in work loads for a trial period of four (4) consecutive calendar weeks.
35
In the event that agreement is not reached at the termination of the trial period, the matter shall be submitted to an arbitrator appointed by the Minister of Labour for the Province of Ontario. The arbitrator shall have full power to rule on such change or substantial change in work loads and to set the wage rate or rates for the jobs affected. Hisdecisionshallbefinal and binding on both the Company and the Unionand any change in the wage rates shall be retroactive to the beginning of the trial period.
19.09	The Company agrees to pay up to a maximum of seventy-five ($75.00)dollars per year upon receipt of invoicefor one (1) pair of approved safety shoes, cr upto a maximum of three (3) pairs of rubber boots for dyehouse employees. Mixers in the Coating Departmentwill be allowed an additional seventy-five ($75.00) dollars for a second pair of shoes which receipt will be given when the invoice and physical return of the first pair of shoes, provided that theemployee has completed his probationary period per section 15.04,
This shall not apply to employees covered by 19.07.
19.10
19.11	It is agreed by both parties that the 10/20 Extended Health Care (Semi Private) annual rates shall be paid as follows:
36
July 1, 1991 Company65% Employee35% July 1, 1992 Company65% Employee35% July 1, 1993 Company70% Employee30%
19.12	Employeesworking the 12-8 shift shall be paid before 8 am. Thursday morning of said 12-8 week, if possible.
Employees wiorking day shift 8-4, employees working evening shift 4-12, their cheques will be available in their respective departments after 13:00 p.m. Thursday.
19.13	The Company sh al I provide a $10,000.00 Life
Insurance Policy for all members and shall pay 100% of the premium cost of the policies.
ARTICLE XX
DEDUCTION OF UNION DUES
20.01	During the lifetime of this agreement, the
Company shall deduct from the pay of all employees by this agreement who have attained seniority, on the first full week, the weekly sum designated by the Union as dues and shall remit same prior to the end of such month to the Amalgamated Clothing and Textile Workers Union, AFL-CIO-CLC. The Company shallalso deduct from payof all employees covered by this agreement who have attained seniority, the sumdesignated by the Unionasan initiationfeeandshall remit same when the employee attains seniority with the first payment of weekly deductions. The said sums shall be accepted by the regular weekly
37
	dues and the initiationfee of those employees who are or shall become members of the Union and the sums so deducted from the non-membersofthe Union shallbe treated as their contribution towards the expenses of maintaining the Union.
	ARTICLE XXI LETTERS OF AGREEMENT
21.01	All Letters of Agreement existing in Appendix "A, si gned and agreed to by the Union and Management are part of this Collective Agreement unless otherwise agreed.
	ARTICLE XXII WAGE RATES
22.01	a) Jobclassification ratesare listedinAppen-dix A to the present collective agreement.
	b) Lead Hand in the Inspection Department shall be paid$0.25/hour more than the highest rate in the Inspection Department.
22.02	a) A new employee shall commence working at a wage rate which is forty cents ($0.40) below the scheduled rate for his job classification. At the completion of histhirty (30)days probationary period his wage rate shall be increased by twenty cents ($0.20), which is twenty cents ($0.20) below the scheduled rates.
	At the completion of one year seniority, the
	38
ratewill be increased by twenty cents ($0.20) per hour to the scheduled rate.
b) A new employee in the maintenance department, "A" Trade, licensed, shall commence working at a wage rate which is forty cents($6.40) belowthescheduledratefor his job classification.
At the completion of his thirty (30) day probationary period his wage rate shall be increased by forty cents ($0.40) per hour to the scheduled rates.
ARTICLE XXIII SHIFT PREMIUMS
23.01	Afternoon shift$0.35 per hour.
Night Shift $0.55 per hour
ARTICLE XXIV
REST PERIODS
24.01	Employeesworking from 8:00 to 4:00 p.m. shall receive one (1) ten (10) minute paid breakduringthe momingandone (lt£n(10) minute paid break during the afternoon. In addition they shall be entitled to one (1) half (1/2) hour paid break. Employees on shift work shall receive a thirty (30)minute paid lunch breakduring their eight (8) hour shift. It is understood that the scheduling of the breaks is the responsibility of the Company.
39
ARTICLE XXV TERMINATION
25.01	This agreement shall remain in force until
June 30,1994jtnd shallcontinueinforceyear to year thereafter unless, not more than sixty (60) days and not less than thirty (30) days before the date of termination, either party furnished the other with notice of termination of or proposed revision of this agreement.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF each of the parties hereto has caused this agreementto be signed by its duly authorized representatives, as of the day and year first above written.
THE AMALGAMATED CLOTHING AND TEXTILE WORKERS UNION, AFL-CIO-CLC, ON ITS OWN BEHALF AND BEHALF OF ITS LOCAL 1664.
40
A. Chabot „
M. Marleau ?tA
^>vA
APPENDIX A
JOB a ASSIFICATION AND RATES
1. JOB CLASSIFICATION
DYEING DEPARTMENT
Dyeing Machine Operator Dye Kitchen
Pad &Washer Operator
General
ro
FINISHING DEPARTMENT
Finishing Mixer Frame Operator Frame Helper Patrol Man Calendar Operator Button Break Operator Steam Frame Operator Spare Operator General
July 1 July 1 1990	1991
11.13	11.53
11.26	11.66
10,76	11.16
10.51	10.91
10,83	11.23
10.76	11.16
10,74	11,16
10.76	11.16
10.76	11.16
10.76	11,16
10.76	11,16
10.76	11.16
10,39	10,79
July 1 July 1 1992	1993
12,03	12,53
12.16	12.66
11.66	12.16
11.41	11,91
11,73	12,23
11.66	12,16
11.66	12.16
11.66	12.16
11.66	12.16
11,66	12.16
11,66	12.16
11.66	12,16
11,29	11,79
1. JOB CLASSIFICATION
July 1	July 1	July 1
1990	1991	1W
COATING DEPARTMENT
Lead Hand Knife Tender Coating Mixer Helper
MAINTENANCEDEPARTMENT
“ A trade licensed Electrician High Pressure Welder Machinist Millwright A trade B trade C trade
Storekeeper (qualified) Storekeeper (unqualified)
Labour
Janitor
11.08
10.86
11.06
10.51
14.60
14,36
14.00
14.00 12,47 12.02 11.65 10.93
10.50
10.50
10.50
11.58
11.36
11.56
11.01
15.03
14.79
14.43
14.43
12.90 12.45 12.05 11,33
10.90
10.90 11.00
12,08
11.86
12.06
11.51
15.53
15.29
14.93
14.93
13.40 12.95 12.55 11.83
11.40
11.40 11.50
July 1 1993
12.58
12.36
12.56
12.01
16.03
15.79
15.43
15.43
13.90 13.45 13.05 12.33
11.90
11.90 12.00
1. JOB CLASSIFICATION
OFFICE
Office
INSPECTION DEPARTMENT
July 1
1990
10.63
July 1
1321
11.03
July 1
1392
11.53
July 1
1332
12.03
Lead Hand Pre Inspector Final Inspector Clubber Re-Examiner General
11.50
10.65
11.01
10.65
11.25
10,39
11.90
11.05 11.41
11.05
11.65
10.79
12.40
11.55 11.91
11.55 12,15
11.29
12.90
12.05
12.41
12.05
12.65
11.79
SHIPPING, RECEIVINGS. WAREHOUSE
Receiver
Checker
General
11.12
10.96
10.39
11.52
11.36
10.79
12.02
11.86
11.29
12.52
12.36
11.79
1. JOB CLASSIFICATION
LABORATORY Lab Operator
PRODUCTION PLANNING Expeditor
$ GREIGE OPERATOR Allocator
Beamer
July 1
1990
10.68
10.83
10.85
10.65
July 1 1991
11.18
11.23
11.25
11.05
July 1 1992
11.68
11.73
11.75
11.55
July 1
im
12.18
12.23
12.25
12.05
2.	OVERTIME SCHEDULING PROCEDURES DYEING DEPARTMENT
Week Days: If overtime is required, we re-questthe operatorfirst. If refused by the operator, then we go by seniority and qualification. No double shift unless everyone has refused the overtime.
Weekend: Saturday overtime 8:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. will be worked by the employee who worked days during the pastweek. We will proceed by occupation, they will have first choice, then we go by shift followed by seniority.
Sunday overtime, is the beginning of a new week, employee who had worked on night shift in the past week will be asked to work overtime Sunday on 8:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. shift by occupation, shift seniority. Same procedure will apply to 4 to 12:00 midnight shfft on Sundayand 12:00 a.m. to8:00a.m. on Monday morning.
Weekend Exception: Sunday 12:00 midnight to8:00a.m. shift, if nooperatoronthatshift.wewillthen ask the operator on the 8:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. shift. If accepted, the person will work a double shift. If he refuses, follow the Seniority List on the 8:00 a. m. to 4:00 p.m. shift.
Friday on the 4:00 p.m. to 12:00 midnight shift, we ask the operator on the 8:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. shift to make a double. If he refuses, we follow the Seniority Liston the 8:00 a.m, to 4:00 p.m. shift.
46
Conclusion: The reason for this procedure is to keep a consistency in the operation, to maintain qualifiedpersonnel on their respective machines and to distributetheovertimeequitablythroughoutthe department, as stipulated in article 12.07 of the Collective Agreement.
No double shifts, unless all the qualified employees, who signed for the weekend overtime, have been asked.
FINISHING DEPARTMENT
Weekdays: Overtime is requested of the machine operator, who is presently operating the machine.
If operator refuses, overtime is requested by seniority of qualified.employees on equitable basisthat are presently on shift.
If all above mentionedhave refused,then the machine operator on the incoming shift will be requested, thenother qualifiedpersonsbyseniorityon incoming shift.
Weekends: Overtime is by operator's shift, operator machine and seniority.
No employee works a double shift, unless all employees that have signed get a shift if qualified.
COATING DEPARTMENT
Overtime is by position, using seniority.
47
Knife Tenders: Ifovertime is required for C-
1	and C-2 we will request the operators of these machines to work the overtime. If refused, we will requestthe knife tenders from C-3 to fill the overtime. The same criteria applies to the knife tenders on C-3 machine. First we ask the knife tenders of C-3, if refused, we requestthe knifetendersofC-1 and C-2. If all knife tenders have refused, we would then request overtime of the mixers by seniority to tend the knives.
Mixers: If overtime isrequiredforC-1 andC-
2	we will requestthe coating mixers to work the overtime. If refused, we will request the coating mixer from C-3 to fill the overtime. The same criteria applies to the coating mixer on C-3. First, we ask the coating mixer of C—1 and C-2. lfallcoatingmixersrefuse,wethenwould request overtime of the knife tenders by seniority.
INSPECTION DEPARTMENT
V\feek Days: Ifovertime is required for Final Inspection, the final inspectors are requested by seniority. Ifthe final inspectors are unavailable, we request overtime by seniority and qualifications.
Ifovertimeisrequiredfor Pre-Inspection, the pre-inspectors are requested by seniority. Ifthe preinspectors are unavailable, we request overtime by seniority and qualifications.
If overtime is required for Re-Examination, the re-examiner is requested by seniority. If the reexaminer is unavailable,we request overtime by seniority and qualifications.
Weekends: Those working 8-4 dayshift during the week have the priority for overtime on Saturday8 - 4. If the dayshift personnel refuse Satur-day'sovertime,theovertimewill be allotted by seniority. If overtime is required on Sunday 8 - 4, the personnel beginning on Monday8 - 4 have priority. Ifthey refuse, overtime would be allotted by seniority.
The overtime on weekends for the 4 - 12 or the 12 - 8 shift follow the same criteria as above.
SHIPPING, RECEIVING & WAREHOUSING
For the last several weeks we have been tryingto run maximum overtime betweenthe hours of 8:00 a.m. and6:00 p.m.
All employees are asked to work their off-shift hours within the aforementionedtime frame, i.e. the peopleworkingthe 10:00 am. to 6:00 p.m. shift are asked to work 8:00 a.m. to 10:00 am. on overtimeand the others are askedto work4:00 p.m. to 6:00 p.m. on overtime.
Under this arrangement the Seniority list is cycleddailyas everyonehasachancetowork overtime.
Si the eventthatthere is not enough overtime as outlined above: a seniority list is drawn up and the request sequence cycles through the list from top to bottom and restarting at the top after a complete cycle.
LABORATORY (Quality Control)
Overtime is allotted by seniority.
49
An employee with the most seniority is asked first, followed by second with the most seniority.
PRODUCTION PLANNING& OFFICE
In the office an employee will usually make overtime for the area which they are responsible.
Since each employee has their own areas of responsibilityand files to maintain it would be wrong to let someone else do overtime in an area which is the personal pride of each employee.
Usually the office employeewillask if they can do overtime in order to catch up or improve on one of their areas of accountability.
In the event that an employee is sick and the work must be carried out by another employee on overtime; we will ask the person with the most seniority and knowledge of the job.
3.	LETTERS OF AGREEMENT
Letter of agreement regarding improved ventilation.
The Company shall make every dfoito improve ventilation throughout the plant within a reasonable period of time.
u) The Patrolmanwill furnish goods to all machinery 50
within the Finishing department and bring goods from any departmentto the Finishingdepartmentfor their use and remove goods from the Finishing departmentto any other department where the goods are designated.
b)	To replace personnel in Finishingdepartment when they can goontheir breaks, latearrivals, sicknessorany other reason required by the department.
c)	The Patrolmanwill assist in keeping the department clean.
ITEM 3
Letter of agreement dated October29,1987, regarding any employee receiving Worker's Compensationbene-fits while in the employ of Consoltex Inc.
Any employee receiving Worker's Compensation benefitswhile in the employ of Consoltex Inc. if absentupto or less than 12 consecutive months shall return to their former job provided he or she is fit to continue such work or will be provided with any job he or she is able to do.
Any employee receiving Worker's Compensation benefitswhile in the employ of Consoitex Inc. i absentforaperiod of over 12 consecutive months will be providedwith any job available or at the very leastthe junior employee'sjob i ntheir division provided he or she is able to do the work
1IEM...4
Letter f agreement regardingApprenticeshipProgram. 51
In an attempt to offer an opportunity to Con-soltex productionemployees,Consoltex hasdecidedto implement an Apprenticeship Program in conjunction with the Ontario Ministry of Skill and Development.
The following criteria must be respected:
1. A posting will be put up to read as follows:
a)	Be presently employed by Consoltex Inc.
b)	Must attend classes on a day releasebasis (One day per week in Cornwall).
c)	Must provide proof cf graduation from grade ten (10).
d)	Must pass a series cf tests:
i)	English proficiency
ii)	Mathematics
iii)	Mechanicalability
e)	Prior experience relevant to maintenance would be an asset.
f)	Salary: as per Contract
Should finalists possess equivalent qualifica-• tions, final decision may be based on seniority. Note: Program could last a maximum of 4 years.
The successful candidate will undergo a personal interview with a representative of management and the union.
52
Candidates writing a test will be issued a number, which will be kept confidential until after completion of test.
If the successful candidate comes from the production division, he has to realize that his plant seniority will be lost, butNOT forthe purposeofvacation calculation.
The aforementioned is a guideline. Future programs may involve somewhat different regulations and will not set an established precedence.
ITEM-5
Letter of agreementdatedNovember19,1987, regard-ing5 monthwaiting period beforean employeecan sign a Posting for a new position.
a)	An employee who has been notifiedby Management that he has been awarded ajob by postingwill after 5 days be transferred to said job.
b)	Upon receiving the "blue transfer slip" notifying the personnel and payroll office of said employee's transfer that is the day we start counting for the 5 months, to which no further bid can be made until that 5 month period has elapsed.
c)	If for any reason theemployeeis nottransferredjo his newjob within 5 days after he has receivedthe OK from Management, the 5 month counting period will start counting anyway. Itisthe responsibility of the Superintendent to make sure that a note is sent to the payroll department and that the employee is also informed that
53
he got the job.
This is to clear up any future problems.
30.00	This agreement applies to the following Converting Division:
Greige Department Dyehouse Department Finishing Department Coating Department Inspection Department Quality Control Department Planning Department Laboratory Department Warehouse Department
Maintenance Division:
Maintenance Department
The weekend shift employee will be scheduled to work on a rotating weekend shift consistingoftwo (2) 12 hour shifts paid attime and a half (1 1/2) on Saturday and of two (2) 12 hour shifts on Sunday paid at time and a half (1 1/2). Weekend shift will be offered to Alexandria employees on a voluntary basis.
ARTICLE I - PURPOSE
30.01	The Company and Union agree on total flexibility of employees working on weekend shift
54
insideof each department. By having one flat rate per department, we expect employees to operate any machine(s) that is/are scheduled, after they have been trained.
ARTICLE V
PLANT EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
30.02	The Union may elect or appoint one (1) steward per weekend shift to representthe weekend shift employees.
ARTICLE VI
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
30.03	No grievance shall be considered where the circumstances giving rise to it occurred or originated morethanseven (7)calendar days.
ARTICLE XII
HOURS CF WORK AND OVERTIME
30.04	The regularworkweekforemployeesworking on weekend shift will be from 00:00 am. Saturday morning until 24:00 midnight Sunday. Consisting of two (2) twelve (12) hour shifts from:
00:00 to 12:00 noon Saturday 12:00 to 24:00 midnight Saturday 00:00 to 12:00 noon Sunday 12:00 to 24:00 midnight Sunday
30.05	The weekendshiftemployeewill rotateevery weekend.
30.06	All additional hours of work performed during
55
the week shall be paid at the applicable overtime rate as per job Classification Appendix "A and shall include shift premium where applicable.
30.07	The scheduled weekend overtime does not
apply to employees hired to work during the weekend.
30.08	The vacation schedule for the weekend em-
ployees will consist of 3 weekends ina row at summer shutdown and will be paid according to the following schedule.
It is understood that no other time off will be granted for vacation purposes unless both parties mutually agree. It is understood that the vacation pay percentage refers to the employee's earnings during the twelve (12) monthsimmediatelyprecedingJulylstofthat year, and distributionasfollows:
All employees shall receivetheir vacation pay percentage the week preceding the annual
ARTICLE XIII VACATION WITH PAY
Seniority
0 to 2 years 2 to 5 years 5 to 10 years
10 to 15 years 15 to 20 years 20 and over
56
shutdown.
ARTICLE XIV STATUTORY HOLIDAYS
30.09 Statutory holiday: For weekend purposes
a)	A statutory holidayisdeemto be8 hours at the flat rate of straight time of the department to be paid once a year at Christmas time.
b)	AH weekend employees who have attained seniority shall receive payment for statutory holiday equivalent to 1 holiday per month provided he did work during that month. One extra pay holiday will be paid at Christmas provided that the employee has worked during the month of December.
c)	At Christmas time all weekend employees will havetwo (2) weekends off in a row and be paid for the equivalent statutory holiday they are entitled to.
d)	It is understood that regular employees joiningthe weekend shift will be paid at Christmas the remaining statutory holidays he is entitled to and shall not exceedthe equivalent of 13 paid holidays per year.
e)	For calculation purposes a calendar year shall be used to calculate statutory holidays.
57
ARTICLE XV SENIORITY
30.10	An employee will be considered probationary for the first 240 hours accumulated over a six (6) month period and will have no seniority rightsduring that240 hours of service. Over a six (6) month period his seniority shall date back to the day on which employment began.
Should a lay off occur which appears likely to the Company to exceed fourteen (14) days, the week and weekend employees would be combined together and the Company would proceedto lay off the mostjunioremployee(s) in his Division.
The Company has the sole right to ask the mostjunioremployee(s) to move to the weekend shift.
30.11	Employee working on weekend shift will be contacted by phone to offer them the job and the opportunityto sign a posting. They will be requiredto come inthe plantthroughthe Main Office to sign postings in their respective department. The department superintendent or supervisor and one union steward will be assigned to call and keep record of who was called.
ARTICLEXVI
TRANSFERS
30.12	Employees who transfer from the regular
58
work week to the weekend work force or vice versa shall be paid the applicable rate of the job they transfer to, starting the day they are physically transferred.
ARTICLE XVIII LEAVE OF ABSENCE
30.13	This replaces 18,07.
On weekend:
Theweekendshift employee inthe eventthat he is injured while on duty, that employee will be paid at the rate that he would have been normally paid if he had finished that shift.
During 5 day regular week:
In the event that a weekend shift employee is injured during an overtime shift, that employee shall be paid at the overtime rate up to the time of injury and the balance of the shift at the base rate, if that employee is unable to return to work. Inthiscase, the rate of paywill be the onefound in Appendix "A".
ARTICLE XIX GENERAL
Replacing 19.03.
30.14	No weekend shift employeewill be recalled after 12 hoursofworkduringthecourseof the following shift if he has left the plant.
59
30.15	The weekend employee cheques wD. be available in their respective departments after 13:00 p.m. Thursday. They will beallowedto come to the front office to get their cheques if they so desire orthey will be given to them on the Saturday in their department.
60
ARTICLE XXII WAGE RATES
30.16 Weekend shift flat rate.
To replace 22.01.
1st July	1st July
1991	1992
1st July
Department 1990
Dyehouse	11.00
Finishing	10.70
Coating	10.80
Inspection	10.90
Greige	10.50
Laboratory	10.55
Office	10.40
Warehouse '	10.75
11.40
11.10
11.30
11.30 10.90 11.05 10.80 11.15
11.90
11.60
11.80
11.80
11.40
11.55
11.30
11.65
Maintenance
Licensed
millvwight	13.85	14.28	14.78
1st July
laaa
12.40
12.10
12.30
12.30 11.90 12.05 11.80 12.15
15.28
	ARTICLE XXIII SHIFT PREMIUM
30.17	To replace23.01 The shift premiums are included in the flat rate rate as established in 30.16.
	ARTICLE XXIV REST PERIOD
30.18	Employeeonweekendshiftwillreceivetwo(2) half (1/2) hour break periodsfor their lunch. It isunderstoodthatthe scheduling of the breaks is the responsibilityof the Company.
30.19	It is to be understood that Appendix " A rates apply for any work outside the regular weekend shift.
	62
Signed the 30th day of October, 1991 at Alexandria, Ontario.
THE AMALGAMATED CLOTHING AND TEXTILE WORKERS UNION, AFL-CIO-CLC, ON ITS OWN BEHALF AN D BEHALF OF ITS LOCAL 1664.
P. Quig N. Lajoie Y. Lavigne D. Lewis A. Chabot M. Marleau R. Duval