AGREEMENT
between
KoSa Canada Company Kingston Plant
and
Communications, Energy and Paperworkers Union of Canada and its Local 9670
Effective 1st April, 2002
OO
00867 (07)
AGREEMENT
between
KoSa Canada Company Kingston Plant
and
Communications, Energy and Paperworkers Union of Canada and its Local 9670
Effective 1st April, 2002
CONTENTS
Article
Page
Scope .........................................................4
Co-operation
Vacation Eligibility........................................6
Discipline and Discharge .....................................12
Representation ...............................................13
Hours of Work.................................................15
Overtime and Other Allowances ................................16
Recognized Holidays ..........................................19
Bereavement..................................................21
Wages - Classification .......................................22
Seniority ....................................................24
Grievance Procedure ......................................... 27
Arbitration ..................................................29
Environmental, Health and Safety .............................30
Termination ..................................................31
Notices ......................................................31
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8,
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
SCHEDULE "A" and “A1"
Hourly Wage Rates -Premiums .........................33
SCHEDULE "B“
Procedure for Arbitration ...........................40
SCHEDULE "C*
Maximum Training Time on Job at Training Rate........42
SCHEDULE “D"
Duties of a Working Leader and Leading Hand..........43
SCHEDULE "E'
Vacation Scheduling
(Maintenance Personnel Excluded).....................45
SCHEDULE "F“
Maintenance Vacation Schedule .......................48
SCHEDULE "G"
Emergency Absence Coverage...........................50
SCHEDULE "H"
Severance Ray Total/Partial Plant Closure ...........52
SCHEDULE "I"
Lines of Progression.................................53
ITEMS AND LETTERS OF UNDERSTANDING INDEX
-	Part of the Collective Agreement .................63
ITEMS AND LETTERS OF UNDERSTANDINGINDEX
-	For Information Purposes Only, Non-arbitrable - Not Part
of the Collective Agreement .........................72
■3-
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
Entered into this 11th day of June 2002 BY AND BETWEEN
KOSA CANADA COMPANY - KINGSTON PLANT, a
corporation of Canada
and
COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND PAPERWORKERS UNION OF CANADA, AND ITS LOCAL 9670, Kingston, Ontario, hereinafter called the "Union", WITNESSETH THAT, in considerationof the mutual covenants and agreements hereinafter contained, the parties have agreed as follows:
ARTICLE 1 SCOPE
DEFINITIONS
1.01	In this agreement:
(i)	"Company" means the Corporation KoSa Canada Company ■ Kingston Plant, as a whole.
(ii)	"KoSa Canada Company" means the operations of the Company, located in Loyalist Township, Ontario.
(iii)	"said Plant" means PET Resin Plant of KoSa Canada Company - Kingston Plant.
(iv)	"employee" means all persons in the employ of the Company at the said Plant save and except Stationary Engineers and engine room assistants employed in the Powerhouse and pump house, those employed at the staff house, guards, Supervisors, those above the rank
-4-
of Supervisors, Technical staff, Engineering staff, sales staff, office staff, Process Control Section staff (other than testers, operators and helpers), Process and Product Research Section staff, Applications Research Section staff (other than equipment technicians, weaving technicians, operators, testers and helpers), and medical services staff.
(v) "bargaining unit" means the unit of employees as herein defined.
RECOGNITION
1.02	This Agreement covers all employees as defined above.
1.03	Both parties agree to comply with the Ontario Human Rights Code.
1.04	The Company recognizesthe Union during the term of this Agreement as the exclusive bargaining agent of the employees for the purpose of collective bargaining in respect of wages, hours, seniority, grievance procedure and such other working conditions as are included in this Agreement. It is the Company's intent that issues that are specifically related to the Collective Agreement will be discussed with the Union Bargaining committee.
MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
1.05	The Union recognizes, subject to the provisions and terms of this Agreement, the right of the Company to managethe said Plant, and to direct the working forces, including the right to hire, promote, transfer and demote any employee and to discipline, suspend or terminate the employment of an employee for just cause.
The Union agrees that the Company may at any time -5-
change the schedule of hours of work, determine and
change work assignments or methods and select the mate-
rials to be handled, processed or manufactured.
Any such action of the Company which results in individual hardship or injustice shall be subject to the grievance procedure.
1.06	The Union further recognizes the right of the Company to make and to alter from time to time reasonable rules and regulations to be observed by the employees, which rules and regulations shall not be inconsistent with the provisions of this Agreement.
1.07	It is the intent of the Company (1) to maintain a stable and well-trained maintenance department to accomplish the normal maintenance requirements and to meet production commitments and (2) to exercise reasonable judgement in the contracting out of services, expertise and manning above the resources of the maintenance.department which are required at times to expedite and complete projects in achieving the objectives of item (1) above.
It is the intent of the Company that the action of non-bargaining unit employees be that which is required to assist in expediting and handling non-routine and emergency situations and not for their actions to impinge on bargaining unit work.
ARTICLE 2 CO-OPERATION
2.01	During the term of this Agreement the Company agrees to maintain the level of benefits in effect on the effective date of this Agreement under the Kosa Canada Company Benefits Program; i.e., the KoSa Canada Company Pension Plan, the KoSa Canada Company Group Plan, the
-6-
Service Awards Plan and the Company contributions for Health Insurance. The Company will maintain its contribution to O.H.I.R premiums at 100% during the term of this Agreement.
Notwithstandingthe above it is agreed that the Company may alter, suspend or amend any Plan should any government action require or provide a benefit which, when considered in conjunction with any alteration, suspension or amendment made to a Company Plan or Plans does not in the aggregate result in a reduction of the level of benefits to employees.
It is further agreed that a change in the composition of employees such as in the average ages, length cf service, relative number of men and women or in the extent of their participation in the Plans, or in the charges made by the insurers (including government charges) shall not be construed as a change in the level of benefits.
In the case of an employee receiving Long Term Disability Benefits up to normal retirement age (age 65), benefitswill continueto be paid up to and including the entire month in which they attain age 65.
Should the Pension Plan for Kingston Bargaining Unit employees be upgraded during the term of this Agreement, the Company agrees to implement those changes at the time of the announcement.
2.02	The Company agrees to continue the practice of granting vacation with vacation allowance in accordance with the provisions of the Vacations for Payroll Employees in effect on the effective date of this Agreement. The following is a summary of eligibility:
■7-
(I)	Service
by May Length of
1st Vacation	Vacation Allowance
The greater of
*(% of gross or (the product of earnings in	the employee's
vacation year)	hourly rate and)
Less One twelfth 4%	8 hoursfor each
than	of 10 work-	day of vacation
1 year	ing days	entitlement,
each month of service.
1 year 2 weeks 4%	80 hours
but less than 3 years
(II) Service Completed in Current CalendarYear
3 years but less than 10	3 weeks	6%	120 hours
10 years but less than 19	4 weeks	8%	160 hours
19 years but less than 25	5 weeks	10%	200 hours
25 years or more	6 weeks	12%	240 hours
■8-
The Company agreesto provideone (1) additional vacation week
off to employees intheir retirement year.
* The Company may at its discretion apply only the percentage formula to an employee who is absent during the vacation year for more than 15 working days for other than verified illness or Union business.
2.03	The Union agrees that it will not cause, authorize or sanction, and no employee shalltake part in, any strike, or other restriction cf production, or any picketing cf the Company's premises during the term of this Agreement.
In the event of violation of this Clause by an employee or group of employees, the officers and officials of the Union, including Stewards, shall promptly take all reasonable action to persuade, including setting a personal example, such employee or group of employees to comply with this Clause.
2.04	The Company agrees that it will not cause or sanction a lock-out during the term of this Agreement.
2.05	The Company agrees that the Union may post notices, on two noticeboards at the main entrances in locations satisfactory to the Union and the Company, in the said Plant, on noticeboardssupplied by the Company for such purposes, provided that such notices have been individually approved in writing by the Union President.
The Union agrees that it will not distribute or post any pamphlets, advertising or political matter, cards, notices, or any other kind of literature within Kingston Plant or its appurtenances except as herein provided.
2.06	During the term of this Agreement, as a condition of each employee's continued employment, the Company shall deduct on the first regular pay day of each month, an amount equivalent to the regular monthly union membership dues from the wages of each employee.
-9-
In the case of a new employee, such deduction will commence with the first regular pay period following the month in which the new employee was hired.
If the amount of monthly membership dues is changed by the Unionduring the term of this Agreement, the Unionshall notify the Company in writing thirty (30) days before such change becomes effective.
The Company shall remit to the Secretary-Treasurer of the Union the total of all amounts so deducted no later than ten (10) days after the deductions have been made. The Company will at the same time forward to the Secretary-Treasurer of the Union a list of those employees who have since the date of the last payment to the Union, been hired, terminated, transferred out of the bargaining unit, or whose deductions are outstanding.
2.07	There shall be no discrimination, intimidation, interference, restraint,coercionor attempted coercion by or on behalf of the Company or by or on behalf of the Union, its members or its agents with respect to any employee because of membership or non-membership in the Union.
2.08	No one shall conduct Union activities during working hours except as specifically permitted in this Agreement.
2.09	The Company undertakes to communicate to the Steward of the area, the Chief Steward, or a senior Union Officer, any change proposed by the Company in work assignments or in hours of work which affects the majority of employees in such area, before such change becomes effective. The Company shall also informthe Union President in writing. Where practical this notice shall be given prior to implementation of such change.
2.10	The Company will continue the Job Posting and Lines of Progression Procedure.
-10-
2.11	The Company and the Union agree during the term of this
Agreement to continue dialogue regarding matters of mutual interest. The dialogue may focus on, but not be limitedto, the following areas:	Job Security, Employment Programs,
Technology, Plant Competitiveness and Efficiency, Communications, Union Effectiveness and Security, Training Requirements, Projections regarding Future Opportunities and Studies; i.e., Impact and Social Consequences of New Technology.
In agreeing to this dialogue, both parties recognize that effective communication on an ongoing basis is an essential element in developing an atmosphere of co-operation, satisfaction and high morale.
2.12	An employee who is called for jury service or subpoenaed for witness duty in a proceeding that does not involve the Company shall be excused from work for any day on which he/she reports for such jury or witness duty and shall receive for each such day on which he/she otherwise would have worked, the difference between eight (8) times his/her regular straight hourly rate and the payment received for such jury or witness duty. An employee working a fixed shift or a rotating shift will not be required to report for work on the day or days he/she is called for such jury or witness duty. The day paidfor such jury or witnessduty in a proceedingthat does not involve the Company shall be counted as eight (8) hours worked for the purpose of computing weekly overtime.
An employee who is called for jury service or subpoenaed for witness duty will provide the Company written notice as soon as possible of their obligationto reportfor such jury or witness duty, Employees who do not provide such notice, and employees who do not provide the necessary evidence of their jury service or subpoenaed witness duty required to adjust their pay will not receive compensation for such jury or witnessduty as provided herein.
-11-
ARTICLE 3
DISCIPLINE AND DISCHARGE
3.01	If an employee, who is present in the Plant, is discharged or suspended pending a decision on a probable discharge, the employee shall be advised in the presence of their Steward or the senior Union Officer on duty. The Union shall provide the Company with the current organization chart of the Union, updated as changes occur.
When Counselling Interviews (white) are issued to employees, they will remain in the employee's file for a period of six (8) months. Providing this six (6) month period has elapsed with no further infractions, the Counselling Interview will be deleted from the record of the employee.
When Written Warnings are issued to employees, a copy shall be forwarded to the Chief Steward. Such Written Warnings or suspensions shall be deleted from the record of an employee if a period of eighteen (18) months has elapsed without any new infraction, i.e., Counselling Interview, Warning or suspension, being entered.
The Company agrees to notify the Union President and Chief Steward in writing of the reason for the discharge of any employee other than a probationary employee. Any discharge may be discussed as a grievance, provided the grievance is submitted in writing within seven (7) days of the date of receipt of notificationof discharge. In the event that an employee is discharged and, after subsequent investigation, is exonerated and reinstated, the employee shall be reimbursed for the time lost by reason of such discharge on the basis of their normal daily hours of work.
3.02	The form which the Company uses to record the appraisal of a bargaining unit employeewill not be used as evidence during arbitration.
3.03	An employee shall be allowed to view/review and copy his/her employee file inthe presenceofa Human Resources Department representative at a mutually agreed time.
ARTICLE 4 REPRESENTATION
4.01	The Company agrees to recognize eleven (11) Stewards, including a Chief Steward . The Union shall notify the Company in writing of the names of the Stewards. It is understood and agreed that the Steward has their regular duties as an employee to perform. The Steward shall, after arrangements with their Supervisor, be permitted during their working hours and without loss of time or pay to leave their regular duties for a reasonable length of time in order to investigate and settle grievances in their jurisdiction.
4.02	The Company agrees to recognize a Union Bargaining Committee of not more than six (6) employees.
4.03	The Union Bargaining Committee shall have the right of meeting the appointed representative or representatives of the Company at least once every month for the purpose of discussing matters arising under this Agreement and including questions related to technological change and retraining. Members shall be paid straight time for all time devoted to attendance at such meetings held on Company property. If during negotiations it is mutually agreed to hold the meetings off Company property members of the Negotiations Cornmittee will be paid their straight time hourly rate for that part of their regularlyscheduledworking hours devoted to attendance at such meetings. It is understood that a representativeof the Communications, Energy and PaperworkersUnion may be in attendance at any such meeting.
4.04	The Company agrees to recognizea Grievance Committee of not more than four (4) employees.
-13-
4.05	The Grievance Committee shall have the right of meeting the appointed representatives of the Company. Members shall be paid straight time for all time devoted to attendance at such meetings held on Company property. It is understood that a representative of the Communications, Energy and Paperworkers Union may be in attendance at any such meetings.
4.06	Members of the Union will be granted reasonable leave of absence without pay for the purpose of attending conventions or other Union functions so long as the Company has been provided one (1) month's notice in writing of such request. The Company will also consider a request where less than one (1) month's notice in writing has been given. The Company and the Unionfurther recognize that service will continue to be acquired during approved absences referred to in the Agreement up to a maximum of six (6) months in any calendar year. Extended Leave of Absence for Union business will be granted to not more than one (1) employee at any one time to a maximum period of one (1) year.
4.07	Union Stewards and Executive Officers and Committee Members shall be granted time off without pay to attend Stewards' Meetings or Union Executive Meetings and General Membership Meetings. The Union will be reasonable in the considerationof the combination of Officers and Officials of the Union time off in regard to the application of this Clause. The Union agrees to give the Company reasonable notice of such meetings.
4.08	The Company agrees to pay Executive Officers of the Union and the Health and Safety Representative for the time lost while absent on Union business and the Company will be fully reimbursed for their hourly rate monthly by the local Union.
-14-
ARTICLE 5
HOURS OF WORK »
5.01	For employees assigned to day work, the normal number of daily hoursofwork shall be eight (8) for five (5) days per week or ten (10) for four (4)days per week, in accordance with the schedules established from time to time for such employees.
5.02	For employees assigned to shift work the normal number of daily hours of work shall be either eight (8) for an average of five (5) days per week, ortwelve (12), and shall vary fromtwelve (12) hoursfor four (4) days in a week to twelve (12) hours for one (1) day in a week, in accordance with the schedules established from time to time for such employees.
5.03	The normal number of daily hours of work are stated solely for the purpose of calculating overtime.
5.04	It is understood that an employee shall be at their workplace and ready to assume their duties at the commencement of their working day.
5.05	An employee assigned to shift work shall not leave their workplace until relieved by the employee assigned to the same operations on the succeeding shift. Relief shall not take place any earlier than thirty (30) minutes prior to the start of the succeeding shift unless by special permission of their Supervisor. Supervisors will not unreasonably withhold permission.
5.06	The Company shall schedule for employees assigned to non-continuous shift work two (2) rest periods of fifteen (15) minutes each during their normal daily hours of work.
The Company shall make every reasonable endeavour to grant all employees assigned to continuous shift work two
(2)	rest periods of fifteen (15) minutes each during their normal daily hours of work.
-15-
5.07	Each employee assigned to non-continuous shift work shall be granted a five (^minute period before their luncheon and before the end of their working day for the purpose of workplace clean-up, making out time cards and personal wash-up.
5.08	It is agreed that an employee may exchange working hours with another or other employees on a mutual basis with the permission of the Supervisor. It is understood that the Company will not pay overtime rates for hours worked for such an arrangement.
5.09	The Company will pay loss of earnings to Kingston Plant employees who, as members of a Municipal Volunteer Fire Department, are absent from work fighting fires. The employee must be a member of the Volunteer Fire Department involved, and listed as such with the Health & Safety Co-ordinator. The employee's presence or continued presence at the fire in question must have been required by an Officer of the Brigade engaged in fighting the fire.
ARTICLE 6
OVERTIME AND OTHER ALLOWANCES
6.01	An employee shall be paid at the rate of time and one-half, calculated to the nearest quarter hour, for work required to be performed in excess of their normal number of daily hours of work. However, an employee shall be paid at the rate of double time instead of at the rate of time and one-half for all hours worked in excess of twelve (12), in the case of an 8-hour shift employee, or sixteen (16) in the case of a 12-hour shift employee in any one day, or, if not in one day, in excess of twelve (12) or sixteen (16) hours respectively, provided such hours have been worked consecutively or have not been interrupted otherwise than by a period of two (2) hours or less.
-16-
6.02	An employee shall be paid at the rate of double time for work required to be performed on their regularly assigned day of rest. The regularly assigned day of rest for shift workers on a two shift basis shall be the first day off where one (1) day off is indicated by the shift schedule and the first day off where two (2) days off are indicated by the shift schedule. The regularly assigned day of rest for day workers on a day shift basis and for employees assigned to twelve-hour shifts shall be the first day df in the calendar week. All numbered individual days off (numbered in the shift schedule in effect on the effective date of this Agreement) shall be considered regularlyassigned days of rest for the purpose of this Clause; nothing in the foregoing excepted.
A lieu number will be assigned to an employee at the time he or she reportsto their continuousshift. Wherever practical, he/she should retain the same lieu number. In the case of a lieu number change, the Company will endeavour to assign a number comparableto the lieu number previously held by that employee.
6.03	If an employee is requiredto report to the said Plant for the performance of any work at other than their regularly scheduled working hours, they shall be paid a minimum amount equivalent to pay for four (4) hours at their straight time rate if their pay for work performed is less than this amount except when such unscheduledwork forms a continuous period with the employee's regularly scheduled working hours, in which case no minimum shall apply.
In addition in the absence of normaltransportationfacilities the Company will provide transportation for the employee required to perform special work as outlined in the first paragraph of this Clause, or, if the Company has no transportation available the Company will pay the employeeone (1) hour's pay at their straight time rate.
-17-
6.04	When an employee's, other than a twelve-hour shift employee, regularlyscheduledworking hours are changed by the Company, that is, both starting and finishing times changed, they shall continue to be paid on the basis of their former schedule for work performed during their first working day following such change unless notice of such change has been given to them by the Company twenty-four (24) hours or more priorto the old starting or the new starting time, whichever is the earlier.
6.05	An employee who reports for work at their scheduled starting time without having been notified not to report and for whom no work is provided by the Company shall be paid for a minimum of four (4) hours in the case of employees assignedto eight-hour shifts, or six (6) hours, in the case of employees assignedto twelve-hour shifts, at their straight time rate provided that such failure to provide work is due to circumstances within the control of the Company.
6.06	If as a result of a change in schedule any employee not on the twelve-hour shift schedule is required to work in excess of six (6) consecutive days, they will be paid at the rate of time and one-half for the seventh day worked, or, when thirty-six (36) hours notice has not been providedto an employee on continuous operations, time and one-half will be paid for the first work period performedon any change of schedule unless such change of schedule commences on an employee's days-off in which case they shall continue to be paid on the basis of their former schedule for the first such day worked and the employee will not be entitled to any other premium for the change of schedule. Except, however, all hours scheduled and worked in excess of their former schedule for that pay period shall be paid at time and one-half. Employees shall not have their scheduled hours reduced to avoid overtime or premium payment. In the event the change of schedule is as a result of the employee's initiative, no premium payment need apply, unless the employee's new schedule requires them to work in excess of the normal number of scheduled days in that pay period.
-18-
6.07	An employee shall not be entitled to be paid under more than one Clause of Articles 6 and 7 unless otherwise specifically provided and, in any event, the rate of payment, excluding the minimum payment and travelling allowance provided for in Clause 6.03, shall not exceed twice the straight time hourly rate except in respect of work performed on a recognized holiday specified in Clause 7.01 in which case such rate, excluding the travelling allowance and minimum payment provided for in Clause 6.03 but including the holiday allowance provided for in Clause 7.02, shall not exceed three (3) times the straight time hourly rate.
ARTICLE 7
RECOGNIZED HOLIDAYS
7.01	Except as otherwise stipulated in this Clause 7.01 an employee shall be paid an amount equivalent to eight (8) hours pay at their straight time hourly rate for the following holidays whether or not they work on such holidays:
New Year's Day	Civic Holiday
Heritage Day	Labour	Day
Monday of March School Holiday Thanksgiving Day Good Friday	Remembrance Day
Victoria Day	Christmas	Day
Dominion Day	December	26th
However, an employee shall not be entitled to be so paid for such a holiday:
(i)	If the employee does not work on the holiday when they have been required or scheduled to do so; or
(ii)	if the employee is absent without good cause on their scheduled working day immediately preceding or succeeding the holiday; or
-19-
(iii)	if the employee is absent for any reason except on vacation, on both the scheduled working days immediately preceding and succeeding the holiday; or
(iv)	if the holiday occurs while the employee is on leave of absence except a leave of absence for verified illness of less than five (5) consecutive days; or
(v)	if the employee has been in the employ of the Company for less than forty-five (45) consecutivedays.
7.02	An employee who works on any of the holidays mentioned in Clause 7.01 shall:
(i)	If entitled to the payment provided in Clause 7.01 be paid in addition thereto at the rate of time and one-half for all hours so worked up to the normal number of daily hours of work. Where the provisions of Clause
6.03	would apply to the work if the day was not a holiday, the minimum payment and travelling allowance shall also apply. Payment for hours worked in excess of the normal number of daily hours of work shall be at the rate of double time: or
(ii)	if not entitled to the payment provided in Clause 7.01 be paid at the rate of time and one-half for all hours so worked.
7.03	If another day is substituted by statute or decree or by mutual agreement between the parties for the observance of any of the holidays listed in Clause 7.01 the day of observance so substituted shall be deemed to be the holiday for the purpose of this Article 7.
7.04	When a holiday mentioned in Clause 7.01 falls in an employee's vacation period, the employee will receive the allowance provided in 7.01 for such holiday in addition to their vacation pay, except that an employee assigned to day work will have the choice of such additional allowance,
-20-
or of receiving an additional day off with pay in lieu of the recognized holiday. In the event of the latter choice the additional day off will generally be attached immediately following the vacation period. Shift employees will also have the choice of such additional allowance or of receiving an additional day off with pay in lieu of the recognized holiday. However, the latter choice may be elected only with the employee's vacation selection(s) that are not coincident with the shutdown period and that in any area no more than one (1) additional day off and no more than one (1) employee per shift can be off because of such additional day in lieu of the recognized holiday.
7.05	Shift employees who have worked those recognized holidays mentioned in Clause 7,01 in the course of the normal shift schedule during the period May 1st of any year to April 30th of the following year may elect to accrue forty (40) hours in time with forty (40) hours of their regular rate of pay in lieu of receiving the eight (8,) hour holiday allowance at the time the recognized holiday is worked. An employee choosing the former option must take the entitlement as if it were a vacation week. Such entitlement must be elected during the vacation selection period (normally April -May) and accrued during that vacation year to be taken in the following year's vacation period.
ARTICLE 8 BEREAVEMENT
8.01	An employee who has a death inthe family (brother, sister, father-in-law, mother-in-law, stepfather, stepmother, grandfather, grandmother, grandchild) who is required to be absent from work (i.e., not on vacation or other such leave of absence) in connection with the death or funeral will be paid for such time required off work up to three (3) consecutive working days. In the case of an employee who has a death of a spouse and/or daughter or son or father or mother in which case they will be allowed up to five (5)
-21-
consecutive working days. Normally an employee will be expected to return to work on the first working day following the funeral.
8.02	An employee will be paid for such time required off work (i.e., not on vacation or other leave of absence) for up to eight (8) hours for employees assigned to eight (8) hour shifts and up to twelve (12) hours for employees assigned to twelve (12) hour shifts to attend the funeral of their son-in-law, daughter-in-law, brother-in-law and sister-in-law.
8.03	The Company will pay lost time for up to four (4) hours once per calendar year for employees who act as pallbearer.
ARTICLE 9
WAGES • CLASSIFICATION
9.01	The classification of the employees shall be done by the Company.
9.02	The classification of existing occupations within the recognized bargaining unit and wage rates applying thereto shall be as shown in Schedule "A'a nd Schedule "Al", which is made pari of this Agreement and is signed for identification by the parties hereto. In the event that the job content of any occupation is substantially changed during the term of this Agreement, or that a new occupation is established, the occupation may be re-classified or classified, as the case may be, by the Company but the Company agrees to review such change or new classification with the Union prior to implementation.
When a new classification is established by the Company, the Company shall determine the rate of pay for the new classification and notify the Union of the same within ten (10) days. If the Union challenges the rate, it shall have the right to request a meeting with the Company to endeavour to negotiate a mutually acceptable rate. Such request will
-22-
be made within ten (1O) days after receipt of notice from the Company. Any change mutually agreed to resulting from such meeting shall be retroactive to the date that notice of the new rate was given by the Company.
9.03	While an employee may at any time discuss their classification with their Supervisor, no request for a change in the classification of such employee need be entertained by the Company unless presented to the Company in writing by the Union within thirty (30) days following the date of the classification or of the change in classification to which such employee objects.
9.04	An employee assigned, as a trainee, to a classification included in Schedule “C" shall be paid the rate applicable to such classification priortothe expiry of the training time specified in Schedule "C".
9.05	An employee assigned to work in a higher rated classification shall be paid the higher rate for the full shift when an employee assumes the duties of such classification and provided the assignment is for three (3) hours or more. If an employee is temporarily assigned to work in a lower rated classificationto meet business exigencies they shall be paid at the rate established for the classification under which the employee is listed on the payroll.
9.06	The Company will discuss with the Union proceduresto be followed should an apprenticeship program be established from time to time at Kingston Plant which varies from the existing program.
■23-
ARTICLE 10 SENIORITY
10.01	The seniority of each employee covered by this Agreement, other than a replacement for an employee absent from work on vacation or due to illness or for other reasons, shall become effective after a probationary period of one-hundred and twenty (120) days employment with the Company within the bargaining unit and shall be retroactive to the date of hiring.
10.02	Seniority shall govern on all occasions when a lay-off occurs, or a transfer or a promotion, or a demotion to a classification included in Schedule "A and Schedule "Al" occurs provided, however, that the senior employee is able and possesses the necessary skills required to perform the job or can acquire those skills within a reasonable period of time.
The provisionsofthis Clause10.02 need notapplyto a layoff which the Company expects to remain in effect for five (^working days or less, except as outlined in the Lines of Progression Procedure, or to a transfer or promotion or demotion to a classification in Schedule "A and Schedule "Al" which the Company expects to remain in effect for seven (7) working days or less or, in the case of vacancies arising from absence on vacation or extended illness, for thirty (30) working days or less. If such temporary adjustment extends beyond thirty (30) working days the Company and the Union will discuss further filling of such vacancy and may resort to the temporary posting procedure. Whenever possible upward movement shall be by seniority as per lines of Progression.
No employee shall lose their position in a Line of Progression or job due to any temporary illness or injury lasting less than six (6) months. In the event that upon the expiration of twenty-six (26) weeks the prognosis of the illness or injury is not of the totally disabling nature, that is,
-24-
15
upon recovery the employee is capable of performing the regular duties of their position or job, their position or job shall continue to be filled on a temporary basis pending their return to work.
In cases involving employees whose continued illness or injury is severe enough to keep them away from work beyond the twenty-six (26) weeks and who after qualifying for long-term disability benefits, recovers sufficiently to perform work, their case shall be reviewed on an individual basis with consideration for medical restrictions opposite viable work arrangements. In such cases there shall be no loss of wages greater than one classification below the employee's former classification.
If any such temporary adjustment should subsequently become permanent or exceed the stipulatedtime limits, the provisions of this Clause 10.02 shall apply immediately but such application shall be without retroactive effects.
The Company's judgement shall not be exercised arbitrarily or unreasonably and the Company agrees to advise the Union of the reasons for its decision on request.
In deciding between applicants to fill a vacancy in a classification in Schedule "A a nd Schedule "Al", the Company shall disregard the qualifications obtained by an applicant during a previoustemporary assignmentto such classification underthe provisions of this Clause 10.02.
10.03	Seniority shall, for the purpose of this Agreement, be calculated so as to include all periods of a person's employment from the earliest date on which they became employed by the Company in its operations at Kingston, Ontario, within the bargaining unit excluding, however, all periodsof employment that occurred priorto atermination of employment other than a lay-off lasting less than twenty-four (24) months.
■25-
10.04Seniority shall be lost upon termination of employment for any reason, as well as upon transfer to a position outside the bargaining unit. Notwithstanding the foregoing, however,
(i)	seniority lost upon a lay-off lasting less than twenty-four (24) months shall be restored upon re-employment together with credit, for seniority purposes, for the period of such lay-off; and
(ii)	an employee who transfers to a position outside the Bargaining Unit for a period not exceeding twelve (12) months shall, ifhe/she returnstothe Bargaining Unit, either pay Union dues or lose seniority for that period of time. After twelve (12) months, all seniority shall be lost. The parties agree that this Clause shall not be retroactive.
(Hi) Seniority lost as the result of Long Term Disability shall be restored if the employee can assume the duties of an available job within a period of twenty-four (24) months.
10.05	The Company agrees to post seniority lists showing the seniority status of each employee and to furnish a copy of such lists to the Union. For those employees with same date seniority, the Company agrees to further define seniority by means of the payroll number system; the lower number being the most senior employee.
10.06The Company agrees to alter the seniority lists from time to time and to correct any errors therein whenever proof of error is submitted by the Union or any employee. No change shall be made in the seniority status of an employee without consultationwith the Union.
10.07 Recall Clause: When a vacancy occursthe Company shall not hire a person not formerly employed, if there is available a former employee who was laid-off within the previ-
-26-
ous twenty (20) months. Seniority at the time of lay-off shall govern between such former employees who possess equivalent qualifications. This provision shall apply only to former employees who have filed their current addresses and telephone numbers with the Company for this purpose and whom the Company is able to reach by telephone at the time their services are required. The Company will provide the Union with a list of those employees whom the Company has been unable to contact.
ARTICLE 11
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
11.01	It is the mutual desire of the parties that disputes, violations or complaints resulting in grievances be resolved as quickly as possible and in accordance with the following procedure. Any dispute, grievance or misunderstanding (hereinafter called "grievance") involving occupational classification, wages, seniority, hours of work or other working conditions which any employee or group of employees may desire to discuss and adjust with the Company shall be taken up directly with the Supervisor of the section or as otherwise provided in this Agreement. The Company agrees that the Chief Steward will be present at all Superintendent level grievance meetings unless he/she is unavailable, in which case a Steward will be called.
STEP 1
Any employee or group of employees who believe they have a grievance shall through or with the Steward reduce the matter to writing and take it up with the Supervisor. The Supervisor shall render their decision in writing to the Steward and Grievor with a copy to the Chief Steward within two (2) regular working days.
■27-
STEP 2
If a satisfactory settlement is not obtained underthe provision of Step 1 hereof, the employee, together with the Chief Steward or Steward, may submit the written summary to the section Superintendent and discuss the matter. The section Superintendent shall render their decision within seven (7) working days of receipt of the grievance at Step 2.
STEP 3
If a satisfactory settlement is not obtained underthe provision of Step 2 hereof, the Steward may submit the grievance in writing to the Works Manager or the Works Manager's appointee who shall hold a meeting of the Grievance Committee during the first calendar week of each month. The Works Manager or the appointee shall reply in writing to the Chief Steward within a further seven (7) days. The time limits may be extended by mutual agreement of the parties.
NOTE: Under exceptional circumstances, Steps 1,2, and 3 of the grievance procedure may be combined by agreement between the Company and the Union.
11.02	Nothing in this Agreement shall be deemed to take away the right of an individual employee to present any personal grievance to the Supervisor.
11.03While an employee may discuss a grievance with their Supervisor at any time, a request for retroactive adjustment need not be entertained by the Company unless the grievance is presented in writing within thirty (30) days of the date of the incident which gave rise to the grievance or if more than two (2) weeks have elapsed from the time the employee receives a decision in writing at any step in the Grievance Procedure to the time the grievance is carried to the next higher step.
■28-
11.04	The time limits specified in Clause'll. 01 of this Article 11 shall be deemed to be exclusive of Saturdays, Sundays, and those holidaysdescribed in Article 7.
ARTICLE 12 ARBITRATION
12.01	Within a period of forty-five (45) days following the date of the communication of the Company's written decision to the Union, any grievance or other matter in dispute between the Company and the Union, involving the interpretation, application,administration, or allegedviolation of any article of this Agreement, may, in the event of failure to reach agreement thereon, be referred by either party to arbitration by an Arbitration Board, in accordance with the procedure contained in Schedule "B" of this Agreement.
Prior to the Union serving notice to submit a grievance to arbitration the President and Chief Steward of the Union may request and the Company agrees to providethe disciplinary documents from the grievor's file.
12.02The decision of the majority of the Arbitration Board on the matter at issue shall be final and binding on both parties, but in no event shall the Arbitration Board have the power to add to, subtract from, alter or amend this Agreement in any respect.
12.03	Notwithstanding the provisions of 12.02, the Board of Arbitration shall have the authority to uphold, modify or set aside any discharge, suspension or other disciplinary measure.
12.04Each party shall pay its own costs and the fees and expenses of witnesses called by it and of its representatives. The fees and expenses of the Chairperson shall be shared equally between the parties.
-29-
ARTICLE 13
ENVIRONMENTAL, HEALTH AND SAFETY
13.01	The Company shall make all necessary and reasonable provisionsfor the safety and health of its employees during the hours of their employment and it shall otherwise comply with any applicable employees' health and safety legislation in all respects. The Company shall furnish protective equipment and other safety devices in accordancewith the foregoing legislation and its present practices. The Union shall co-operatewith the Company in encouragingemploy-ees to observe all safety regulations.
13.02The parties agree to make every effort to improve and promote safety and health conditions in the Plant. The functions, powers and terms of reference of the Environmental Health and Safety Committee shall be as outlined in the Occupational Health and Safety Act 1978. Meetings will be held not less than monthly. Minutes of each meeting shall be maintained and distributed to all members of the Committee and copies shall be posted in the Plant. Committee members shall be notified of the time of all such meetings and remunerated in accordance with the provisions of the Agreement or any applicable legislation. The Chair shall alternate between Management and Union members of the Committee.
13.03There shall be established a certified Health and Safety Representative in the manner described in the Occupational Health and Safety Act 1978, and they shall function inaccordancewith the legislationand terms of this Agreement.
13.04The Company agrees to provide all available information, in writing, to the Union with regard to the full identity of all chemical and related substances and their threshold limit values. Such identificationshall include but not be restricted to the chemical, drug, biological, pharmaceutical or generic name or names, relevant healthand safety hazards
-30-
and precautions, the maximum safe concentrationof expo-
sures, health and safety precautions to be taken, symp-
toms, medical remedies and antidotes.
13.05The Committee shall be provided all accident and occupational illness reports, other minor injury reports, any environmental healthand safety studies and any Governmental reports relating to the Plant or industry for review, consideration and appropriate action.
13.06	Members, or a designated substitute, shall be paid straight time for all tirfie devoted to attendance at Environmental Health and Safety Committee Meetings held on Company property or premium time where premium rates apply.
ARTICLE 14 TERMINATION
14.01	This agreement shall be in effect from the 1st day of April 2002 up to and including 31st day of March 2005 and from year to year thereafter, subject to termination or proposals for change by either party on any termination date provided that up to sixty (60Jdays written notice has been given prior to such termination date.
14.02	Fifteen (15) days after notice is given as outlined in Clause 14.01, the parties will meet to exchange written proposals for any modificationsor revisions of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 15 NOTICES
Notices provided for in Article 14 and Schedule "B" shall be in writing and shall be sufficient if sent by mail addressed, if to the Union,to the Presidentofthe Union, and ifto the Company,to the Works Manager at Kosa Canada, Kingston Plant.
-31-
COMMU NICATIONS,	KoSa CANADA COMPANY
ENERGYAND	■ KINGSTON PLANT
PAPERWORKERS UNION OF CANADA
■32-
-33-
CLASSIFICATION
Chief Operator
Electrician
Instrument Mechanic Machinist
Maintenance Mechanic
Pipefitter
Welder
Insulation Mechanic Refrigeration Mechanic Resin Polymer Operator Chemical Laboratory ShiftTester Safety/Fire Dept. Utility Operator Refrigeration Mechanic-in-Training Shift Tester
SCHEDULE "A"
HOURLY WAGE RATES
April 1	April 1	April 1
2002	2003	2004
26.18	26.81	27.46
25.59	26.22	26.87
25.59	26.22	26.87
25.59	26.22	26.87
25.59	26.22	26.87
25.59	26.22	26.87
25.59	26.22	26.87
25.59	26.22	26.87
25.08	25.71	26.36
23.50	24.13	24.78
22.81	23.44	24.09
22.18	22.81	23.46
21.68	22.31	22.96
21.13	21.76	22.41
cde-
SCHEDULE "A" (Continued)
HOURLY WAGE RATES
CLASSIFICATION
Chip Handling/Raw Material Operator
Tractor/Waste Disposal Operator
Stores Receiver/Attendant
Maintenance Helper
Production Operator-in-Training Stores Helper
Janitor
April 1 2002
21.13
20.68
20.54
20.42
19.80
19.80
19.70
April 1
2003
21.76
21.31
21.17
21.05
20.43
20.43
20.33
April 1
2004
22.41
21.96
21.82
21.70
21.08 21.08
20.98
-35-
SCHEDULE "Al"
HOURLY WAGE RATES
CLASSIFICATION
April 1 April 1
2002	2003
Chief Operator Electrician
instrument Mechanic Machinist
Maintenance Mechanic
Pipefitter
Welder
Insulation Mechanic
19.64	20.11
19.19	19.67
19.19	19.67
19.19	19.67
19.19	19.67
19.19	19.67
19.19	19.67
19.19	19.67
Refrigeration Mechanic Resin Polymer Operator Chemical Laboratory Shift Tester Safety/Fire Dept. Utility Operator Refrigeration Mechanic-in-Training
18.81	19.28
17.63	18.10
17.11	17.58
16.64	17.11
16.26	16.73
April 1
2004
20.60
20.15
20.15
20.15
20.15
20.15
20.15
20.15
19.77
18.59 18.07
17.60 17.22
-36-
SCHEDULE "AT (Continued)
HOURLY WAGE RATES
CLASSIFICATION
Shift Tester
Chip Handling/Raw Material Operator
Tractor/Waste Disposal Operator
Stores Receiver/Attendant
Maintenance Helper
Production Operator-in-Training Stores Helper
Janitor
April 1 2002
15.85
15.85
15.51
15.41
15.32
14.85
14.85
14.78
April 1
2003
16.32
16.32
15.98
15.88
15.79
15.32
15.32
15.25
April 1
2004
16.81
16.81
16.47
16.37
16.28
15.81
15.81
15.74
CONTINUOUS SHIFT PREMIUM
Effective April 1, 2002, a premium of sixty-seven (67) cents per hour shall be paid for work performed by employees who are assignedto regularly scheduled continuousshifts. Effective April 1,2003, Continuous Shift Premium shall be increased to seventy (70) cents per hour; and effective April 1, 2004, Continuous Shift Premium shall be increased to seventy-three (73) cents per hour. The premium shall be added to the rates after, and not before, calculating overtime and will at all times be shown separately from the rates. Employees who are paid this premium shall not qualify for any other shift premium.
SHIFT PREMIUM
Effective April 1, 2002, a premium of eighty-one (81) cents per hour shall be paid for work performed between 1600 hours and 2000 hours on regularly scheduled shifts commencing 0800 hours and ending 2000 hours. Effective April 1, 2003, Shift Premium shall be increased to eighty-three (83) cents per hour; and effective April 1, 2004, Shift Premium shall be increased to eighty-five (85) cents per hour. The premium shall be added to the rates after, and not before, calculating overtime and will at all times be shown separately from the rates. Employees who are paid this premium shall not qualify for any other shift premium.
SUNDAY PREMIUM
An employee who is regularly scheduled to work on Sunday will be paid, in addition to any shift premium, a premium of two (2) dollars and seventy-two (72) cents per hour. Effective April 1, 2003, Sunday premium shall be increased to two (2) dollarsand seventy-five (75)cents per hourfor each hour worked on Sunday; and effective April 1,2004, Sunday Premium shall be increasedto two (2) dollars and seventy-eight (78) cents per hour. This premium is to be added to the rates shown in Schedule " A and Schedule "Al" of this Agreement but is, at all times, to be shown separately from these rates. The premium is to be added to the rate after, and not before, calculating overtime.
-37-
WORKING LEADER
A Working Leader may be appointed to serve under their supervisor and during the period of their appointment, will receive forty-eight (48) cents per hour more than the rate of the highest rated employee in the group they lead. Effective April 1, 2003 this will increase to fifty (50) cents per hour more than the rate of the highest rated employee in the group they lead, and, effective April 1, 2004 this will increase to fifty-two (52) cents per hour. When appointing a Working Leader, first consideration will be given to the senior employee.
LEADING HAND
A Leading Hand may be appointed in the absence of the Supervisor and, during the period of their appointment, will receive sixty (60) cents per hour more than the rate of the highest rated employee in the groupthey lead. EffectiveApril 1,2003 this will increase to sixty-two (62) cents per hour more than the rate of the highest rated employee in the group they lead, and effective April 1, 2004 this will increase to sixty-four (64) cents per hour. When appointing a Leading Hand, first considerationwill be given to the senior employee.
INSTRUCTOR PREMIUM
An instructor will receive twenty-five (25) cents per hour in addition to their own rate or the rate of the highest rated classification which they are currently instructing, whichever is higher. The premium will be paid only to an employeewho is assignedto fulltime instructing and will apply during the period of the employee's appointment as an instructor. When appointing an instructor, first considerationwill be given to the senior employee in the job from which the instructor is selected.
■38-
COMMUNICATIONS,	KoSa CANADA COMPANY
ENERGY AND	- KINGSTON PLANT
PAPERWORKERS
UNION OF CANADA
AND ITS LOCAL 9670
-39-
SCHEDULED”
PROCEDURE FOR ARBITRATION
1.	The party desiring to submit a matter to arbitration shall deliver to the other patty a notice of intention to arbitrate. This notice shall state the matter at issue and shall state in what respect the Agreement has been violated or misinterpreted by reference to the specific Clause or Clauses relied upon. The notice shall also stipulate the nature of the relief or remedy sought.
2.	Withinten (10) daysafterthe date of delivery ofthe foregoing notice, the party initiating arbitration shall notify the other party of the name of its representative on the Arbitration Board and the other party shall appoint its representative within ten (10) days of receipt of this notification.
3.	In the event that either patty shall fail to appoint a representative to the Arbitration Board within the delay provided, the other party may request the Minister of Labour of the Province of Ontario to appoint a representative on behalf of the defaulting patty.
4.	When the representatives have been appointed they shall meet forthwith to choose a Chairperson, who with the two representatives, shall constitute the Arbitration Board.
5.	Should the representativesfail within five (5) days to agree on a Chairperson the Minister of Labour of the Province of Ontario may be requested by the representatives or either of them to appoint a person who shall be Chairperson of the Arbitration Board.
6.	After the Arbitration Board has been formed by the foregoing procedure, it shall meet with all members present and hear the evidence of both parties and render a decision within seven (7) days after the completion of taking evidence.
-40-
7.	The time limits specified herein shall be deemed to be exclusive of Sundays and those holidays described in Article 7,01 of this Agreement and may be extended by mutual consent of the parties or by the Arbitration Board.
8.	The parties may elect to have a single arbitrator hear the matter in dispute instead of a three person board. In such case, the party wishing to submit the issue to arbitration should indicate in its notice of intent to arbitrate that it would like the matter heard by a single arbitrator. The recipient of the notice shall inform the other party within ten (10) days of receipt of the notice if it is agreeable or not to the matter being heard by a single arbitrator. If so, the parties shall endeavour to select the single arbitrator. Failing agreement within twenty (20) days or such time as agreed by the parties, paragraph five (5)above, will apply. The single arbitrator shall be bound by the procedure as set out above, with the necessary changes being made.
•41
SCHEDULE "C"
MAXIMUM TRAINING TIME ON JOB AT TRAINING RATE
Occupation
Safety/Fire Department Utility Operator Resin Polymer Operator Chemical Laboratory Shift Tester Tractor/Waste Disposal Operator Shift Tester
Stores Receiver/Attendant
Chip Handling/Raw Material Operator
Training Period
6 months 6 months 3 months 3 months 2 months 2 months 2 months
42-
SCHEDULED"
DUTIES OF A WORKING LEADERAND LEADING HAND
The application of Working Leader and Leading Hand premiums under the terms of the Collective Agreement are temporary assignments and not to be considered as a regular or permanent classification.
The duties and responsibilities, when assigned, are as follows:
The Company expects that a Working Leader will perform the regular duties of their job to the maximum extent possible when not engaged in the additional duties outlined below for a Working Leader.
GENERAL:
Working Leader - Linder the direction of the Supervisor, to co-ordinate the work activities assigned by the Supervisor.
Leading Hand ■ Inthe absence of the Supervisor^ co-ordinate the work activities under the Supervisor'sjurisdiction, referring to another member of supervision when they require assistance. Absence of the Supervisor means absence from the Plant for the full shift.
RESTRICTIONS ON AUTHORITY:
(a)	The Working Leader or Leading Hand has no authority to discipline employees. It is the responsibility of the Supervisor, or another member of supervision as the case may be, to ensure that proper discipline is maintained.
(b)	The Working Leader or Leading Hand cannot authorize major maintenance work orders.
(c)	The Working Leader or Leading Hand has no authority to treat employee injuries.
-43-
(d)	Any discussions with employees on their performance, problems, grievance, etc., must be carried out by the Supervisor, or, in their absence, another member of supervision.
ADDITIONAL DUTIES OF A WORKING LEADER:
(a)	To assign employees to specific jobs within their jurisdiction.
(b)	To ensure that sufficient raw materials and operating supplies are available to enable the required work to be carried out. To inform the Supervisor if such materials are not available.
(c)	To carry out the direction of the work force to ensure that the work is carried out as prescribed.
(d)	To report to the Supervisor any difficulties encountered in carrying out the work.
(e)	In production to request maintenance assistance when required if the work can be carried out by shift maintenance personnel.
(9 To ensure that work is scheduled as required.
.44.
SCHEDULE "E"
VACATION SCHEDULING (MAINTENANCE PERSONNEL EXCLUDED)
(a)	By April 1st of each year the Company will inform the Union whether there is going to be a summer maintenance shutdown and if so the dates thereof.
(b)	On or about April 1st, departmental supervision will indicate on a form provided by Human Resources Department the following restrictions resulting from area manning considerations:
(i)	The number of people per crew that can be allowed off at any one time.
(ii)	Employees in certain job combinations on each crew that may or may not be allowed off together.
(iii)	Employees in certain jobs from crew to crew that may or may not be allowed off together.
(c)	Each square on the vacation schedule represents one vacation week. Once departmentalsupervision have computed the total number of vacation weeks that each crew by area is eligible for, 50% will be reserved across the bottom of the schedule. The remaining 50% of the vacation weeks of that crew will be allocated in the prime time from the 2nd week in May to the 4th Saturday after Labour Day. If, in the first instance, there are not enough vacation weeks in a crew by area to consecutively block out 52 weeks across the bottom the remaining open squares will be considered available for vacation selection and therefore blocked out.
(d)	If a shutdown is scheduled, each employee affected will schedule enough of their vacation up to three (3) weeks to cover the duration of the shutdown. The Company will endeavour to schedule a shutdown of not more than three
-45-
(3)	weeks duration in any one department. For the remainder of their vacation, or all of it in a year in which a shutdown is not scheduled, each employee, in order of seniority, shall make their initial choice and indicate this selection in the week or consecutiveweeks affected on the list. The selection must be made promptly. In making their selection the employee chooses those numbered squares representing vacation weeks from the blocked area referred to above. These choices are then marked down on the form provided by Human Resources Department.
Employees shall have the option of selecting Christmas week on their first choice or subsequent choices.
In the event that production requirements permit, the Company shall have the option of expandingthe number of people allowed off during Christmas week.
(e)	In the event the employee chooses to split their vacation then the employee shall indicate their subsequent vacation choice by choosing a numbered square that is available after all other employees on the crew have indicated their initial choice. This procedurewill continue until all employees' vacations are committed.
(9 In small departments, including relief crew, the number of vacation weeks in the first 50% may not complete a 52 week block. If an employee in that group has decided to take a vacation entitlement outside of the area "blocked out", that department will either run light for that particular vacation or obtain a suitable relief employee from within the Plant.
(g) The vacation list shall be taken down at the end of the 3rd week in April, printed and re-posted by the Company by May 1 st. Employeeswho did not indicatetheir vacation selections before the list was posted shall take their vacation in the available weeks upon providing two weeks notice.
<h) In the event an employee transfers into a department after -46-
the final vacation list has been posted, their vacation in their former department shall be cancelled and they shall select from the vacation period available in their new department. However, where production requirements permit, every attempt will be made to allow the employeeto maintain one (1) previous vacation selection provided this vacation occurs within a reasonable period of time after the transfer. An employee who is transferred from crew to crew in the same department will be allowed to maintain one vacation selection of their remaining vacation so long as this vacation selection is the only vacation selection in addition to that allowed under paragraph (b) (i) of this Schedule for that same period.
(j)	In the event an employee'stwo (2) consecutive "numbered days off fall during a departmentalshutdown, the employee shall have the option of taking the time as scheduled days off or as vacation.
(j)	Whether there is a shutdown or not a minimum of 50% of vacation weeks shall be allowed during the prime time of the 2nd week in May to the 4th Saturday after Labour Day.
(k)	Whether there is a shutdown or not, the Company shall ensure that vacations will be granted as they appear on the posted list.
47-
SCHEDULE “F"
MAINTENANCE VACATION SCHEDULE
(a)	By April 1st of each year the Company will informthe Union whether there is going to be a summer maintenance shutdown and if so the dates thereof. The Company will endeavour to schedule a shutdown of not more than three (3) weeks duration in any one department.
(b)	For purposes of maintenance vacation scheduling the following department units apply:
(i)	Chief Operator/Refrigeration Mechanics
(ii)	Instrument Mechanics
(iii)	Electricians
(iv)	Mechanics
(v)	Machinists
(vi)	Pipefitters
(vii)	Insulation Mechanics
(viii)	Janitors
(ix)	Tractor/Waste Disposal Operators
(x)	Welders
As business conditions vary the number of units listed above may be enlarged or decreased from time to time.
(i)	Each employee in order of seniority shall make their initial choice and indicate this selection in the week or consecutiveweeks affected on the vacation list with the provision that a maximum of two (2) weeks will be allowed during the period July 1 stto August 31st. After this process has been completed any open weeks may be selected on the basis of seniority.
(ii)	The maximum number of employees permitted off together by unit will be as follows:
48-
Maintenance Mechanics	2 all year
Pipefitters	1 all year
Electricians	1 all year
Instrument Mechanics	1 all year
Welders	1 all year
Insulation Mechanics	1 all year
Chief Operator/ Refrigeration Mechanics	1 all year
Tractor/Waste Disposal Operators	1 all year
Janitors	1 all year
Machinists	1 all year
(d) A maintenance employee who is transferred from unit to unit will be allowed to retain the vacation selection made in their former unit.
49-
SCHEDULE "G"
EMERGENCY ABSENCE COVERAGE
The Company and the Union recognize the need for continuous and efficient operation of the Plant in order to obtain unrestricted production and high quality products and it is their intentionto cooperate and continue to be committed to the successful operation of the provisions of the Emergency Absence Coverage System. The parties will continue to meet from time to time to reaffirm their respective commitments.
Scheduled and unscheduled absences shall be filled in accordance with the provisions hereinafter described:
(a) The area Supervisor will determine the areafs) and job(s) where absences exist. The Supervisorwill then referto the volunteer list taken from the cover crew for the area(s) affected in order of seniority. On each successive occasion that coverage is required, the opportunity for overtime will be rotated. Records will be maintained by the area Supervisor. Employees who wish to volunteer for overtime coverage will be required to place their names on a volunteer list supplied by area supervision, which will be posted at six (6) month intervals. This list will be posted for a period of fourteen (14) days and any employee who is on vacation, sick or an approved leave of absence will have five (5) days after their return to work to include their name for consideration. An employee will be allowed a total of six (6) refusals before their name will be stricken from the list and they will not be allowed to volunteer again until the beginning of the next six (6)month period. If an employee transfers or is transferred from one area/crew to another, they will be allowed, if they desire, to place their name at the bottom of the volunteer overtime list for their new crew.
(i)	If the area Supervisor is unable to obtain a volunteer from the cover crew list, the Supervisor will call those employees from that crew on lieu days in order of seniority.
-50-
(ii)	When an employee volunteers and reports to work because of an absence of another employee they may be permitted to work even though the incoming Supervisor might find that the workload is light. In such case, the volunteer could be permitted to leave at their request.
(iii)	An employee at work whose relief fails to report will be expected to work up to four (4) hours overtime until a relief employee reports. The employee may leave at whichever time occurs first and if they have no transportation, the Company will provide it.
(b) If no volunteer is available, the Relief Crew and the remaining non-working crews will then be canvassed in that order.
(C) If such requests as outlined in paragraph (a) cannot be filled by the proceduresin (b), the area Shift Supervisorwill then require employee(s) on the basis of reverse seniority from the area cover crew to reportto work. The Company may request a particular classification if the situation is such that no trained personnel are available to fill the absence.
(d)	The appropriate number of meal tickets will be provided to those employees who are unable because of the nature of the overtime to make adequate preparations.
(e)	Where excessive difficulties are experienced with the Emergency Absence Coverage System and the parties are unable to resolve these difficulties former Schedule "G" shall be temporarily reinstated while the parties examine alternatives.
•51
SCHEDULE"H"
SEVERANCE PAY TOTAL/PARTIAL PLANT CLOSURE
The Company will give the Union three (3) months' notice of a permanent, partial, or total Plant closure (discontinuance of business).
Where lay-offs are caused by the permanent discontinuanceof all or part of the business, the Company shall pay an amount equal to one (1) week, forty (40) hours, at their basic rate for every completed year of service to employees with one (1) to fifteen (15) yearsservice. Forthose employees with greaterthan fifteen (15) years completed service the Company shall pay two (2) weeks, eighty (80) hours, at their basic rate for every completed year of service up to a maximum of sixty (60) weeks.
Employees who elect to receive severance pay at the time of lay-off will forfeit all seniority and recall rights.
-52-
SCHEDULE "I"
LINES OF PROGRESSION
To beconsideredintheapplicationoflF in connection with a layoff for five working days or less.
The following procedure applies to a lay-off under the provisions of Clause 10:02 inthe Collective Agreement which states "the provisions of this Clause 10:02 need not apply to a lay-off which the Company expects to remain in effect for five working days or less...."
The quoted provision will continue to apply to a lay-off of seven consecutive days under the eight-hour shift schedule with no employee losing more than five working days. An employee assigned to the twelve-hour shift schedule and who is laid off under this provision will not lose more than forty hours pay in the seven consecutive days.
In a situation where, underthis provision, the number of employees is being reduced in (a) a line of progression, or (b) a job classification other than in a line of progression, the procedure for implementingthis provision will be as follows:
(a)	a reduction in a line of progression.
Section I (9 of the Lines of Progression procedure applies
subject to the following:
(1)	In determining the employees to be temporarily laid off it may be necessary for some employees to make a crew change in order that employees be retained according to seniority. Employees who then remain at work but whose seniority will demote them will be demoted on their crew.
(2)	A demoted employee must be qualified to perform a lower job inthe line, or he/she will be included inthe lay-off but this provision does not apply to any senior operators who were transferred directly into a line
-53-
above a bottom job in that line of progression.
(3)	No employee will be promoted to be retained.
(b)	A reduction ina job classification in otherthan (a) above, in an area, e.g. Warehouse among fully qualified employees will follow seniority.
At the end of the lay-off referred to in the first two paragraphs, the various employees will return to their former jobs.
Jobs within the bargaining unit are divided into the following three categories; all references to qualifications and better qualified are governed by the language of Clause 10:02 of the Collective Agreement:
I	Jobs Within Established Lines of Progression
II	Specially Posted Jobs
III	Maintenance Jobs (Skilled)
I Operation of Lines of Progression
(a)	There are separate lines of progression in the various sections of the Plant. See attached chart. Only vacancies (see (b) below) in the bottom job of each line will be posted. Any employee in the bargaining unit may apply for such vacancy. Such vacancies will be filled on the basis of seniority unlessthe employee has been previously advised that his/her performance has been unsatisfactory. If there are no applications for a bottom job in any line, any vacancies will be filled from outside.
(b)	Each month, different jobs will be posted for a one week period. Only the bottom job in each line will be posted. Any employee in the bargaining unit may apply to one such posted job in any month. All employees who apply will be listed in accordance with seniority. In addition during the
-54-
three month period an employee may make application to be considered for a vacancy in a bottom job on a form provided by the Human Resources Department. However, names added to the list in this manner will be listed below those employees who have made application to the regular posting at the commencement of the three month period. Such additions will be made in the order in which they apply. Prior to any lay-off or cut-back, there will be an established date of cut-offto the practice of accepting nonregular postings. Such applicationswill be accepted, but the listing of these applicantsfor considerationwill be secondary to planned manning moves. Where possible, the cut-off date for accepting non-regular postings should be a minimum of four (4) weeks from the actual date of lay-off of employees. Where the Company is unable to give the Union four (4) weeks notice of lay-off or cut-back, the cutoff date will be as per the date of notification. Such list will constitutethose employees wishing to transfer to the posted job classification in the event of a vacancy or vacancies during the three month period following the date the job notice is posted. Such Vacancieswill be filled on the basis of seniority unless the employee has been previously advised that his/her performance has been unsatisfactory. In applying to a posted job, any previous application to a job posting is automatically cancelled with the exceptionof an application for a posting listed in the special posted job category. Each job will be re-posted upon the expiration of the three month period. If the applicant is not a successful candidate for the posted job within the three month period, he/she must re-apply for the posting ifhe/she still wishes to be considered. If an applicant wishes to withdraw his/her application he/she may do so before he/she receives notice that he/she is a successful applicant for that job. When an employee in a line is a successful applicant for a vacancy in another line, he/she may not apply to another regularly postedjobfor a period of twelve (12) months (see Section lla) and he/she forfeits any rights to his/her former line as of the date his/her training is completed in the new job. An employee who is on vacation or on a leave of
-55-
absence throughoutthe entire periodajob is posted will be
considered, provided that application is made within 5
working days of the employee's return to work.
(c)	Promotion to a higher job in any line will be based on seniority and qualifications. For any such job the Company will undertake to train and maintain sufficient senior employees from the next lower job to fill the number of vacancies normally expected. However, when an employee moves into a classification and becomes the most senior employee in that classification he/she will not be promoted until the most senior trained employee who was in the classification has been promoted.
(d)	When there are two or more jobs in a line at the same rate of pay they will be considered parallel. The Company will have flexibility in moving employees within such a group of parallel jobs within a line.
(e)	When a cut-back occurs, the junior employee in a classification will be demoted to the next lower job.
(f)	When a cut-back occurs in a particular line, the total number of employees in excess is determined. The necessary adjustment is made commencing with the bottom classification of the line of progression. The resulting job vacancies are then filled by demoting only employees of the next higher classification. This process continues up the line of progressionthrough each successive level of job classifications until the required reduction in the number of excess employees has been reached.
The only employees exempt from the above process, are those employees who are in a classification as a result of Company action or as a result of inability to be promoted to the next higher classification, and such employees will be exempt only in accordance with their seniority. However, a senior employee who has been moved by the cut-back provisionof the Lines of Progression Procedure to
-56-
a vacancy in the bottomjob in a new line of progressionwill be allowed to remain in that line in accordance with that employee's seniority, if a cut-back in the new line should occur within six months of such a move.
(g)	When a cut-back occurs, an employee who is demoted out of a line will be placed in a line where a bottom job vacancy exists. However, when no bottom job vacancy exists in any line, he/she will, provided he/she possesses the job requirements, be permitted to bump the employee with the least Seniority from the bottom job, of whichever line that employee is located in, including the Janitor-Labour Classification. Such adjustments of personnel will take place as soon as reasonably convenient but no longer than a two week period.
In the event that the demoted employee does not possess the job requirements to perform the duties in the vacant job, or in the bottom job in which the employee with the least seniority is incumbent, then the most junior employee who can perform in the vacant job and whose job the demoted employee can perform, will be bumped to the vacant job; or the employee with the least seniority will be laid off and the most junior employee who can perform in the job thus vacated and whose job the demoted employee can perform will be bumped to that vacated job.
An employee moved out of a line because of a cut-backwill automatically have his/her name placed ahead of others on a list awaiting vacancies in that line. After ninety (90) days, the list will be revised and the names will be listed according to seniority.
When an employee who has been in a classification for 26 or more consecutive weeks is cut-back to a lower classification due to a lack of work, he/she will be given four (4) weeks notice of such cut-back or be paid at the rate of the higher classification in lieu of such notice.
-57-
(h)	In the event of a lay-off a discussion with the union will be
arranged in advance. This procedure will be followed except during vacation periods and periods of unusual circumstances. It is agreed that one of the unusual circumstances would be the potential laying-off of a senior employee over an employee with less seniority. In cases of this nature no action will be taken until the parties meet and resolve the issue. The Company also agrees that in these circumstances the senior employeewill be retained provided he/she is prepared to accept the arrangement as worked out between the Company and the Union.
(jj Forthe continuousshift operation the relief assignment will be handled as follows:
Starting from the top of each line of progression one relief is required for each classification. The relief opportunity will be given on the basis of seniority.
Within a group referred to in the above paragraphthe relief assignment will be declared available at the expiration of twelve months for applications from which a selection will be made on a seniority basis. A relief employee who may be thus displaced will be returned to his/her former job or position as though he/she had not left it for the relief assignment.
In the event of a cut-back a reliefemployeewill be cut-back to his/her former job according to seniority, but will remain as relief unless the cut-back moves him/her to another group in which case he/she ceases to be a relief employee. His/her replacement as relief in the group from which he/she was cut-back will be selected by canvassing the employees in the order of seniority in that group with the appointment continuing for the balance of the twelve month period.
Normally the reliefemployeewill not work at a job higher than the position qualified and assigned in his/her former
-58-
position. However, if the relief employee works in a job above his/her former qualified and assigned position he/she will receive the rate of the job worked if previously qualified.
The relief employee will usually work as a replacement in the classification of the employee who is absent on his/her lieu day except the relief employee may be assigned to a lower rated job or higher rated job to provide training of regular crew members or relief crew.
On occasion a relief operator(s) may be assigned to a regular crew and the crew will run without relief. In such cases, the Company will attemptto either avoid or keep to a minimum calling in an employee during his/her scheduled seven day stretch of days off.
Jl____Specially Posted Jobs
(a)	All vacancies in these jobs will be posted separately as required for a one week period. Applicants may apply to such specially posted jobs without prejudice to any application made to a regular posting (see Section 1 (a) above) (exception see (c) below).
Notice of these specially posted jobs will be displayed for a period of six months. An employee who is on vacation or leave of absence throughout the entire period a job is posted will be considered, provided that the application is made within 5 working days of the employee's return to work.
(b)	Any employee in the bargaining unit may apply for a specially posted job, with seniority and qualifications being considered in selecting the successful applicant.
(c)	There will normally be no promotion from a specially posted job.
■59-
Mj Jobs included in this category are listed on the attached chart.
(e) When a cut-back occurs in a specially posted job, an employee who is moved out will be treated in the same manner as an employee cut back out of a line.
ILL Maintenance
(a)	All skilled maintenance jobs are excluded from the lines of progression procedure, except as provided below.
(b)	In the case of a lay-off, those skilled maintenance employees will be permitted to bump into the bottom job of a line of progression. The employee must remain in this bottom job classification until an opening occurs in his/her trade, otherwise should he/she choose to move up the line of progression he/she forfeits return to his/her trade.
The employee in the case of lay-off will be permitted if he/she has enough seniority to bump into the Janitor-Labour pool.
It is understoodthat the employee may exercise one or the other of the above options, or be laid off.
When an employee is hired for a skilled maintenancejob or when an employee transfers from a production job to a skilled maintenancejob, he/she will be placed on an area crew which has an opening. For a period of training and evaluation, the employee will be on days. The training and evaluation period generally will not exceed one (1) year. At any time, the Union can request a meeting with the Company to discuss an employee's progress.
When the supervisor has completed the training and evaluation, the employee will go on shift and replaces the most senior employee on shift who wishes to be transferred to days.
-60-
(d)	In the event of a production worker who is qualified as a tradesperson being transferred to a maintenance position, that employee will take his/her place on the maintenance shift schedule as if he/she were a new employee and remain on shift until the maintenance employee immediately ahead of him/her on that schedule is taken off shift.
•61
The parties agree that the following lettersor itemsare part of the Collective Agreement signed by the partiesthis 11th day of June 2002.
COMMUNICATIONS,	KoSa CANADA COMPANY
ENERGYAND	- KINGSTON PLANT
PAPERWORKERS UNION OF CANADA
■62-
ITEMS AND LETTERS OF UNDERSTANDING INDEX
Part of the Collective Agreement
		Page
1.	Students			64
2.	Contracting Out			65
3.	Employee Assistance Program			66
4.	President of the Union 			67
5.	Medical Specialist Appointments			68
6.	Maintenance Multi-skitling			69
■63-
June 10, 1999
RENEWEDAPRIL 16, 2002
Mr. Leroy Littlefield President
Communications, Energy and Paperworkers Union, Local 9670 Dear Mr. Littlefield:
STUDENTS
This will confirm the understanding reached between the Company and the Union.
Students who perform bargaining unit work other than general clean-up and labour shall be paid the Operator in Training rate. Students shall also receive overtime and shift premium. No other provisions of the Collective Agreement shall apply to students.
Yours sincerely
CELANESE CANADA INC.-MILLHAVEN PLANT J.W. Gibson
Manager, Human Resources/Public Relations JWG:rmh
■64-
June 10,1999
RENEWED APRIL 16, 2002
Mr. Leroy Littlefield President
Communications, Energyand Paperworkers Union of Canada Local 9670
Dear Mr. Littlefield:
This will confirm the understanding reached between the Company and the Union.
The current committee that reviews contractors presently on site and/or who will be shall be continued. The committee shall meet once every two weeks.
The Company shall endeavour, whenever possible, to give reasonable notice to the Union through the committee of contracts to be let to an outside contractor. Such notice may be impractical in the event of an emergency.
As well, the committee shall discuss alternatives which may be available to reduce the contracting out of work.
Within 30 days of ratification, the Company will stop contracting out bargaining unit work to bargaining unit employees.
Yours sincerely
CELANESE CANADA INC.-MILLHAVEN PLANT J.W. Gibson
Manager, Human Resources/Public Relations JWG:rmh
65
June 10,1999
RENEWED APRIL 16, 2002
Mr. Leroy Littlefield President
Communications, Energy and Paperworkers Union of Canada Local 9670
Dear Mr. Littlefield:
EMPLOYEE ASSISTANCE PROGRAM
This will confirm the understanding reached between the Company and the Union.
The Company agrees to maintain an Employee Assistance Program during the term of this Agreement provided that cost and utilization remain acceptable to the Company.
Yours sincerely
CELANESE CANADA INC.-MILLHAVEN PLANT J.W. Gibson
Manager, Human Resources/Public Relations JWG:rmh
■66-
April 16, 2002
Mr. PaulRaymo President
Communications, Energy and Paperworkers Union of Canada Local 9670
Dear Mr. Raymo
PRESIDENT OF THE UNION
This will confirm the understanding reached between the parties concerning the President of the Union.
It is agreed that the Union President will return to his/her former classification with one (1) day of the week devoted to Union Business. It is understood there may be situations that arise from time to time that requires the Union President'sattention in addition to one (1) day per week.
This agreement will become effective on the effective date of this Agreement.
Yours sincerely
KOSA CANADA COMPANY-KINGSTON PLANT J.W. Gibson
Manager, Human Resources/Public Relations JWG:db
■67-
April 16, 2002
Mr, PaulRaymo President
Communications, Energy & Paperworkers Union of Canada Local 9670
Dear Mr, Raymo
MEDICAL SPECIALIST APPOINTMENTS
This will confirm the understanding reached between the Union and the Company.
The Company shall pay up to sixteen (16) hours for all employees who require time off from work in any period of twenty-four (24) consecutive months to go to an appointment with a Medical Specialist that has been arranged by the employee's Family Physician. Payment for these appointments shall not exceed four
(4)	hours at a time. The employee must provide the Company with at least twenty-four (24) hours' notice of such appointment and show verification of the appointment by submitting the referral slip to their immediate supervisor certifying the appointment or verification of aitendance of such appointment.
Yours sincerely
KOSA CANADA COMPANY-KINGSTON PLANT J.W. Gibson
Manager, Human Resources/Public Relations JWG:db
■68-
June 28th, 2000
RENEWEDAPRIL 16, 2002
Mr. Mike Gray President
Communications, Energy & Paperworkers Union, Local 9670 Dear Mr. Gray:
The following modified response is made to the Union without prejudice or precedent.
Those tradespersons currently under Schedule A-1 who hold a valid license in their respective trade will be brought to Schedule A rates (see Note nine (9) under Conditions) and those employees who are designated as Resin Polymer Operators will receive the Schedule A rate provided the Union agrees in Principle and Practice with Multi-skilling and the conditions as outlined below.
CONDITIONS;
1.	Those employees who are trained and qualified in all aspects of the Resin Polymer Operator classification and have been designated as Resin Polymer Operators will receive the Schedule A rate for that classification.
2.	The wage adjustments would be applied to those skilled tradespersons who are fully qualified and licensed in Ontario with the exception of Insulation and Instrument Mechanics (see note nine (9)).
3.	The Company makes this proposal with the clear understanding that the work to be performed will above all be done safely and competently. Training will be provided as necessary.
4.	The Company is of the opinion that the Collective Agreement currently permits Multi-skilling.
-69-
5.	Tradespersons will be expected and requiredto perform all tasks assigned to them that can be performed safely and competently.
6.	There will be no lay-offs as a result of the introduction of Multi-skilling.
7.	The trades groups for the purposes of lay-offs, vacation selection and overtime will have a designated home trade which will be the group they were hired into.
8.	Qualified tradespersons will receive an increase of one (1.00) dollar per hour once Multi-skilling has been agreed to.
9.	Since there is no official Ontario Certification for Insulation or Instrument Mechanics in these instances the Company will determine whether someone has the required qualifications and abilities to carry out the duties of the Instrument or Insulation Mechanic.
GENERAL:
It should also be understoodthat the Company does not envision each trade being fully conversant with all the duties of the other trades. There may be some exceptions but generally the Company intendsto broaden the scope of specific trades and will use, as a guideline, the assessment forms available from the Ministry of Training Collegesand UniversitiesApprenticeship and Client Services Branch.
Yours sincerely,
KOSA CANADA COMPANY-KINGSTON PLANT J.W. Gibson
Manager, Human Resources JWG:wla
■70-
The parties agree that the following letters or items are attached for informationpurposesonly, are non-arbitral,and are not part of the Collective Agreement signed by the parties this 11 th day of June 2002.
COMMUNICATIONS,	KoSa CANADA COMPANY
ENERGYAND	- KINGSTON PLANT
PAPERWORKERS UNION OF CANADA
■71
ITEMS AND LETTERS OF UNDERSTANDING INDEX
For Information Purposes Only, Non-arbitral, Not Part of the Collective Agreement.
Page
1.	5-Day Lay-off Provision............................73
2.	Utilization of Tennant Scrubber....................74
3.	Maintenance Vacation Relief Employee Schedule ... .75
4.	Employment of Employeeswith Recall Rights..........76
5.	Overtime Assignment Error..........................77
6.	Maintenance Department- Shift Coverage ............78
7.	Individualized Employee Benefit Statements.........79
8.	Maintenance 10-hourshift...........................80
•72-
For Information Purposes Only, Non-arbitral,
Not Part of the Collective Agreement
March 6, 1987 RenewedApril 16, 2002
Mr, Brian Hayes President
Energy & Chemical Markers Union Local9670
Dear Mr. Hayes:
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
In order to clarify the Company's position with regard to Clause 10.02 and the five-day lay-off provision contained therein, the Company shall limit five-day outages due to market conditions to once (1) per area per calendar year, the such outages for market conditions will not be used in conjunction with a summer maintenance shutdown. The five-day lay-off provisions may continue to be invoked at the time there are mechanical breakdowns, or conditions due to external forces* beyond the control of the Company. In each instance where feasible, the Company will make every effort to effectively utilizethose employees who may be affected by such a shutdown.
This proposal is contingent upon Union acceptance and agreement to amend Schedule "E", item (d) to read: "If a shutdown is scheduled each employee affected will schedule enough of his/her vacation up to three (3) weeks to cover the duration of the shutdown. The Company will endeavour to schedule a shutdown of not more than three (3) weeks duration in any one department."
*Other than the condition above external forces preclude market conditions.
Sincerely,
CELANESE CANADA INC.-MILLHAVEN PLANT J.W. Gibson
Manager, Human Resources JWG:rmh
73-
For Information Purposes Only, Non-arbitral,
Not Part of the Collective Agreement
March 6, 1987 Renewed April 16, 2002
Mr. Brian Hayes President
Energy & Chemical Workers Union Local 9670
Dear Mr. Hayes:
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
This letter will confirm the understanding reached between the Company and the Energy and Chemical Workers Union, Local 9670, regarding the following:
"When the Tenant type operator ridden scrubber is to be utilized for three hours or more, the operator will be paid at the Tractor Operators rate of pay".
Yours sincerely,
CELANESE CANADA INC.-MILLHAVEN PLANT J.W. Gibson
Manager, Human Resources & Public Relations JWG:rmh
■74-
For Information Purposes Only, Non-arbitral,
Not Pari of the Collective Agreement
March 6,1987 Renewed April 16, 2002
Mr. Brian Hayes President
Energy & Chemical Workers Union Local 9670
Dear Mr. Hayes:
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
The Maintenance vacation relief employee will not have his/her scheduled relief times changed due to additional granting of vacation, provided that he/she was scheduled to cover vacation, and it is understood that his/her schedule may be changed due to cancellation of vacation.
Yours sincerely,
CELANESE CANADA INC.-MILLHAVENPLANT J.W. Gibson
Manager, Human Resources& Public Relations JWG:rmh
■75-
For Information Purposes Only, Non-arbitral,
Not Pari of the Collective Agreement
Original letter issued to 6. Hayes, President, Energy & Chemical Workers Union, Local9670, on March 29, 1984.
Amended March 6, 1987
Renewed April 16, 2002
June 10, 1999
Mr. Leroy Littlefield President
Communications, Energy and Paperworkers Union of Canada Local 9670
Dear Mr. Littlefield:
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
This letter will confirm the understanding reached betweenthe Company and the Energy and Chemical Workers Union, Local9670, at a meeting held on Januaiy 20, 1984, during which the parties explored possible ways d providing employment for former employees on recall, and to what extent possible temporary employment might be provided with contractors, Celanese requires from time to time:
(1)	Where practical the Company will stipulate contractors utilize Celanese Millhaven employees on recall.
(2)	For any employee with recall rights that subsequently becomes a permanent employee as a result of a Term and Task Assignment, all service accumulated while working Term and Task will be credited to the employee'soverallservice. Term and Task assignments will not exceed a total of twelve (12) weeks in a twelve (12) month period calculated from the first day an employee began Termand Task work.
Yours sincerely,
CELANESE CANADA INC.-MILLHAVENPLANT J.W, Gibson
Manager, Human Resources/Public Relations JWG:rmh
76
For information Purposes Only, Non-arbitral,
Not Part of the Collective Agreement
March 29, 1984 Renewed April 16, 2002
Mr. Brian Hayes President
Energy and Chemical Workers Union Local 9670
Dear Mr. Hayes:
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING OVERTIME
Should the Company err in the assignment of overtime, then an overtime opportunity in kind will be offered. This opportunity will be in excess of area manning, and will be at a time mutually agreed upon by the employee and his or her supervision. This adjustment shall take place within thirty (30) days.
Yours sincerely,
CELANESE CANADA INC.
J.W. Gibson
Human Resources Manager JWG:rmh
■77-
For Information Purposes Only, Non-arbitral,
Not Part of the Collective Agreement
March 29, 1984 Renewed April 16, 2002
Mr. Brian Hayes President
Energy and Chemical Workers Union Local 9670
Dear Mr. Hayes:
MAINTENANCE DEPARTMENT- SHIFT COVERAGE
This will confirm the understanding reached between the Company and the Union.
Maintenance personnel in the trade classification of maintenance mechanic, electrician and instrument mechanic will be given the opportunity to apply or re-apply for shift duty for a minimum period of one (1) year. The most senior applicants will be given preference; however, in the event that all positions on shift are not filled then the most junior tradesmen in the respective trade will be appointed.
Assignments will be made for shift relief, vacation relief and sick relief as required.
Yours sincerely,
CELANESE CANADA INC.
J.W. Gibson
Human Resources Manager JWG:rmh
78
For Information Purposes Only, Non-arbitral,
Not Part of the Collective Agreement
March 26, 1982 Renewed April 16, 2002
Mr. Brian Hayes President
Energy & Chemical Workers Union Local 9670
Dear Mr. Hayes:
LETTER OF AGREEMENT RE INDIVIDUALIZED EMPLOYEE BENEFIT STATEMENTS OF CELANESE (MILLHAVEN1 BENEFIT PROGRAM
It is the intent of the Company to provide to each employee an individualized employee benefit statement encompassing the benefits of the Celanese (Millhaven) Benefit Program by July 1, 1982.
Yours sincerely,
CELANESE CANADA (MILLHAVEN) INC.
J.J. Carty
Industrial Relations Manager JJC:rh
■79-
For Information Purposes Only, Non-arbitral,
Not Part of the Collective Agreement
April 16, 2002
Mr. PaulRaymo President
Communications,Energy & Paperworkers Union, Local9670 Dear Mr. Raymo:
GENERAL:
The new Schedule will encompass a ten (10) hour day, four (4) days per week, with Fridays off except in those weeks where a Statutory Holiday falls.
ELIGIBILITY:
The eligibility to work the New Modified Schedule will be established by the Manager/Superintendent of each department on a classification basis and not on an individual basis.
HOURS OF WORK
Mondayto Thursday07:00 - 17:00 hours, paid lunch, with Fridays off except in those weeks where a Statutory Holiday falls, the schedule will be as follows:
1.	If the holiday falls on a Monday:
•	Tuesdayto Friday, 07:30 hours-16:00 hours, paid lunch.
2.	If the holiday falls during the week other than Monday or Friday:
•	Four (4) days of the week 07:30 hours -16:00 hours, paid lunch.
3.	If the holiday falls on the Friday:
•	Mondayto Thursday, 07:30 - 16:00 hours, paid lunch.
Statutory holiday allowance would not be affected.
OVERTIME
Overtime will be paid at time and one-half for employees who are called in to work on their designated day off under the New Modified Schedule. Overtime will also be paid at time and one-half calculated to the nearest quarter hour for work required to be performed in
-80-
excess of their normal number of daily hours of work under the New Modified Schedule. However, an employee shall be paid at the rate of double-time instead of at the rate of time and one-half for all hours worked in excess of fourteen (14) under the New Modified Schedule.
There will be no shift premiums associated with the ten (10) hour day schedule.
The Company reserves the right to explore and implement an on-call system should coverage become problematic.
VACATIONS:
Vacations taken during the week will be consideredas a full vacation week. SKELETON CREW
The Company has the option as it did under the current modified work schedule to invoke a flexible skeleton crew composed of particular trades, etc., should the need arise. Selection of the skeleton crew will be on a seniority basis provided the employees possess the required qualifications and meet production area requirements. The use of the skeleton crew would be on a continuous basis and their extra day off would be scheduled.
TERMINATION:
Either party may terminate this agreement during the term of this contract by giving thirty (30) calendar days notice to the other party. The parties will then meet to discuss a new schedule.
Sincerely,
KOSA CANADA COMPANY-KINGSTON PLANT J.W. Gibson
Human Resources Manager JWG:wla
■81
■ ^
I CLARICA'
KoSa Canada Company
(Active Employees)
Group Policy No. 40396
Your Group Insurance Booklet
Keep in a safe place
This booklet is a valuable source of information for you and your family. Please keep it in a safe place. We also recommend that you familiarize yourself with this information and refer to it when making a claim for group benefits.
Your Plan Administrator is there to help
Your plan administrator can:
•	help you enrol in the plan
•	provide you with the forms you need to claim group benefits
•	answer any questionsyou may have
Claims and benefits information at your fingertips
For more information about your claims or group benefits, please call Clarica's toll-free number. Just dial: 1-800-463-3572
Your Group Insurance Booklet
Personal Information
Clarica has established a confidential, group insurance file which contains personal information on your plan membership and claims. Only Clarica employees who are responsible for underwriting, administration and investigations, or any other person whom you have authorized, will have access to your file. All files are kept inClarica's offices.
It is your responsibility to ensure any information held on your behalf is accurate and up-to-date. Whenever your personal information changes, please notify your plan administrator as soon as possible.
'1 Jus biochureMiitimEni/es the mafoi featuics of >oui benefits piogiam and is designed as a guide to assist you m understanding the vauous provisions applicable,
livery effort has been made to provide accurate information However, should any tjuesiions an-e, the fmal interpretation will be governed by the terms of the insurance contracts, official plan documents and ament government legislation
If you need fitrlhet details, please contact coin plan admmisltaloi. you mu\ also ider to the insurance contracts and plan documents (available fimn youi plan administrate!)
KoSa Canada Company intends to maintain these benefit plans indefinitely but reset ves the right hi modiK or camel them at uro time
Your Group Insurance Booklet
Summary of Insurance
Policy Number 40396
Basic Member Life Insurance and Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance
Class of Members	Benefit Formula	Maximum Benefit
Active Permanent Full-T ime and PartTime Employees with Basic Long Term Disability Benefit	lx annual earnings	$850,000
Active PermanentFull-Time andPart-Time Employees with Optional Long Term Disability Benefit	lx annual earnings	$850,000
Active Temporary Full-Time and Part-Time Employees	lx annual earnings	$850,000
Termination of Insurance:
•	Death benefit: retirement (the Basic Life Insurance Benefit availableto you on your retirement is described in a separatebooklet). •
•	Disability benefit: 65th birthday
Summary of Insurance (baOOs)	A-l
January 1, 2001 (40396)
Optional Member Life and Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance**
Class of Members	Benefit Formula	Maximum Benefit
Active PermanentFull-Time and PartTime Employeeswith Basic Long Term Disability Benefit	units of $10,000	3 x annual earnings (rounded to the next higher $10,000), but not exceeding $250,000
Active Permanent Full-T ime and PartTime Employees with Optional Long Term Disability Benefit	units of $10,000	3 x annual earnings (rounded to the next higher $10,000), but not exceeding $250,000
Active Temporary Full-Time and Part-Time Employees		
**You may take Optional Life Insurance only, or Optional Life Insurance and Optional Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance.
Termination of Insurance:
•	Death benefit: retirement
•	Disability benefit: 65* birthday
Optional Dependant Life and Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance (Available to Permanent Employees only)**
Option	Spouse	Each Child
Option 1	$10,000	$5,000
Option 2	$25,000	$12,500
Option 3	$50,000	$25,000
**You may take Optional Life Insurance only, or Optional Life Insurance and Optional Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance.
Termination of Insurance: member's retirement
Summary of Insurance (baOOs)	A-2
January 1, 2001 (40396)
Short Term Disability Plan
Class of Members	Benefit Formula	Maximum Monthly Benefit
Active Permanent Full-Time and PartTime Employees with Basic Long Term Disability Benefit	66 2/3% of monthly earnings	$8,200
Active Permanent Full-Time and PartTime Employees with Optional Long Term Disability Benefit**	70% of monthly earnings	$8,200
Active Temporary Full-Time and Part-Time Employees	66 2/3% of monthly earnings	$8,200
**ForActive Permanent Employees electing Optional Long Term Disability Benefit: The monthly disability benefit will be adjusted annually on January 1st to reflect the Cost of Living increase determined ty the CPI of the preceding month of September to a maximum of 3%. This increase applies after you have received Long Term Disability benefits for 12 months.
Monthly Disability Benefit
Your monthly disability benefit is the lesser of 1. and 2. below:
1.	the benefit formula applied to your gross monthly earnings, limited to the maximum monthly benefit, less any disability and retirement income you receive from:
a.	the Canada/Quebec Pension Plan or a similar pension plan, excluding benefits for dependent children.
b.	the Workers’ Compensation Act, Workplace Safety and Insurance Act or other similar legislation.
c.	an automobile insurance policy.
2.	85% of your gross monthly earnings in force on the date you became totally disabled if the benefit is subjectto income tax, oryour net monthly earnings if the benefit is not subject to income tax, less any disability and retirement income you receive from:
a.	the CanaddQuebecPension Plan or a similar pension plan, including benefits for dependent children.
b.	the Workers’ Compensation Act, Workplace Safety and Insurance Act or other similar legislation.
Summary of Insurance (baOOs)	A-3
January 1, 2001 (40396)
c.	an automobile insurance policy.
d.	another group insurance policy.
e.	a retirement income plan providing income that becomes payable after you are no longer actively at work.
As your employer pays a portion of the Long Term Disability premium, your monthly disability benefit is subjectto income tax.
Total Disability and Totally Disabled: mean that,
•	during the qualifying period and the 24 month period after it, you have a medical impairment which prevents you from performing the essential duties of the occupation in which you participated] ust before the total disability started, and
•	after the 24 month period, you are unable to perform the essential duties of any occupation for which you have at least the minimum qualifications.
QualifyingPeriod: 26 weeks
Benefit Period: up to the first day of the month coinciding with or following your 65th birthday, or, if earlier, the date on which you elect to receive early retirement benefit under any employee benefit plan.
Termination of Insurance: 65th birthday or retirement, if earlier
Summary of Insurance(baOOs)	A-4
January 1, 2001 (40396)
Extended Health Insurance- Option 1 - Basic Plan
(Available to all Classes)
Part	Benefit	Deductible family person unit		Reimburse- ment
A	Drug			90%
C	Hospital: ward to semiprivate	none	none	100%
D	Supp. Health care	$40*	* o 00 V5	90%
E	Out-of-Province Emergency and Travel Assistance	none	none	100%
*The deductible applies per calendar year. The deductible applies to the combined eligible expenses of Parts A and D.
Termination of Insurance: member’s retirement (the Extended Health Insurance Benefit available to you on your retirement is described in a separate booklet).
Extended Health Insurance - Option 2 - Enhanced Plan (Available to Permanent Employees only)
		Deductible		
Part	Benefit	per person	per family unit	Reimburse- ment
A	Drug	$40*	$80*	100%
B	Vision: $200**	$40*	$80*	100%
C	Hospital: ward to private	none	none	100%
D	Supp. Health Care	$40*	$80*	100%
E	Out-of-Province Emergency and Travel Assistance	none	none	100%
Summary of Insurance (baOOs)	A-5
January 1,2001 (40396)
*The deductible applies per calendar year. The deductible applies to the combined eligible expenses of Parts A, B andD.
* *Maximumfor eyeglasses/contact lenses every 24 month period for you and for each insured dependant.
Other maximums are listed under the appropriate Provision page.
Termination of Insurance: member's retirement (the Extended Health Insurance Benefit available to you on your retirement is described in a separate booklet).
Dental Insurance- Option 1 - Basic Plan (Available to all Classes)
		Deductible			
Part	Benefit	per person	per family	Reimburse-	Maximum
A	Diagnostic/ Preventive	$40*	$80*	ment 100%	$1,500**
B	Restorative	$40*	$80*	90%	**
D	Periodontic	$40*	$80*	80%	**
H	Endodontic	$40*	$80*	80%	**
*The deductible applies per calendar year. The deductible applies to the combined eligible expenses of Parts A, B, D andH.
**Themaximum amount payable appliesto the combined eligible expenses incurred in a calendaryear under Parts A, B, D and H for you and for each insured dependant.
Late Entrant Maximum: If your eligible dependant becomes insured more than 31 days after the date you became eligible for the Dental Insurance Provision, the maximum amount payable for the combined eligible expenses of all parts incurred during the first 12 months of insurance will be limited to $250 for each insured dependant.
Termination of Insurance: member's retirement
Dental Fee Guide: The applicable fee guide is the Ontario fee guide in force on the day when the expense is incurred. For services provided by dentists, the fee guide for general practitioners will apply. For services provided by dental specialists, the fee guide for dental specialists will apply.
Summary of Insurance (baOOs)	A-6
January 1, 2001 (40396)
Dental Insurance- Option 2 - Enhanced Plan
(Available to Permanent Employees only)
*The deductible applies per calendar year. The deductible applies to the combined eligible expenses of Parts A, B, D, E, F, G and H.
**The maximum amount payable applies to the combined eligible expenses incurred in a calendaryear under Parts A, B, D, E, F, G and H for you and for each insured dependant.
***The maximum lifetime amount payable applies to the eligible expenses incurred under Part C.
Late Entrant Maximum: If your eligible dependant becomes insuredmore than 31 days after the date you became eligible for the Denial Insurance Provision, the maximum amount payable for the combined eligible expenses of all parts incurred during the first 12 months of insurance will be limited to $250 each insured dependant.
Termination of Insurance: member's retirement
Dental Fee Guide: The applicable fee guide is the Ontario fee guide in force on the day when the expense is incurred. For services provided by dentists, the fee guide for general practitioners will apply. For services provided by denial specialists, the fee guide for denial specialistswill apply.
Summary of Insurance (baOOs)	A-7
January 1,2001 (40396)
General Information
Eligibility
You are eligible, and continue to be eligible,to be a member while you meet all of the following conditions:
1.	You are actively working for KoSa Canada Company.
2.	You regularly work for KoSa Canada Company at least 15 hours each week.
3.	You have been continuously employed ty KoSa Canada Company at least as long as the waiting period.
4.	You are a resident of Canada.
Participation is compulsory.
If you are classified as a contract employee, owner-operator,consultant, independent or if you are self-employed, you are not eligible to join the plan.
Waiting Period:
•	Active Permanent Full-Time and Part-Time Employees: nil
•	Active Temporary Full-Time and Part-Time Employees: 6 months
You are eligible, and continue to be eligible, for dependant insurance while you meet all of the following conditions:
1.	You are a member.
2.	You have at least one dependant.
3.	Your dependants are residents of Canada.
Definitions
Dependant
means your spouse and/or a dependent child of you or your spouse. If Clarica does not approve evidence of insurability required for a dependant, he will not be an insured dependant.
Dependent child
means an unmarried natural, adopted, or step child who is entirely dependent on you for maintenance and support and who is
1.	under 21 years of age,
2.	under 26 years of age and attending a college or university full-time, or
3.	physically or mentally incapable of self-supportand became incapable to that extent while entirely dependent on you for maintenance and support and while eligible under 1) or 2) above.
General Information (bf07v)	F-l
January 1, 2001 (40396)
He, his and him
refer to both genders.
Spouse
means the person who is married to you, exceptthat a person of the opposite or same sex who is living with and has been living with you in a conjugal relationship will be considered to be your spouse.
Enrolment
You enrol for Optional Life insurance by submitting a completed enrolment form and evidence of insurability to us. You request Optional Dependant Life Insurance by submitting a completed enrolment form to us.
You enrol for all other insurance by submitting a completed enrolment form. You request all other dependant insurance by submitting a completed enrolment form.
If you request dependant insurance more than 31 days after you become eligible, you must submit evidence of insurability for each dependantto Clarica.
If you have no dependant when you enrol and later acquire one, request dependant insurance, (eg. birth of first child, marriage).
If your new dependant is a common-law spouse, see your Plan Administratorto find out how to enrol for dependant insurance.
Evidence of insurability submittedto Clarica is at your expense.
Commencement and Termination
You become a member for Optional Life Insurance on the later of the date that you become eligible or the date that we approve the evidence of insurability, unless you are not actively working on that day due to disease or injury.
You become a member for all other insurance on the date you become eligible, unless you are not actively working on that day due to disease or injury.
If, due to disease or injury, you are not actively working on the date the insurance would be effective, you become a member on the date you return to active work We may require evidence of insurability to establishthe date that you are physically and mentally fit to return to active work. If so, you become a member on the date we establish.
You become insured for dependant insurance on the latest of
1.	the date that you become eligible for dependant insurance,
2.	the date that you request dependant insurance, or
3.	the date that we determinethe insurability of all of your dependants, and approve at least one dependant,
unless you are not actively working on that day due to disease or injury
If, due to disease or injury, you are not actively working on the date the insurance would be effective, you become insured for dependant insurance on the date you return to active
Commencement and Termination(bfD7v)	F-2
January 1, 2001 (40396)
work. We may require evidence of insurability to establish the date that you are physically and mentally fit to return to active work. If so, you become insured for dependant insurance on the date we establish.
Changes in Insurance
To request an increase in the amount of your Optional Life Insurance, you must submit evidence of insurability to us. The increase in the amount of insurance will be effective on the date that we approve the evidence of insurability.
An increase in your benefits, the amount of your insurance or the amount of your dependant insurance due to change in your group benefit plan’s design or a change in your classification becomes effective on the date of the change, unless you are not actively working on that day due to disease or injury.
If Clarica doesn’t approve an increase in the amount of your insurance or the amount of your dependant insurance, any future increase in the maximum benefit amount will not be effective unless evidence of insurability is approved. An increase in the maximum benefit amount will be effective on the date Clarica approves the evidence of insurability.
If, due to disease or injury, you are not actively working on the date an increase in your benefits, the amount of your insurance or the amount of your dependant insurance would be effective, the increase becomes effective on the date you return to active work.
Clarica may require evidence of insurability to establish the date that you are physically and mentally fit to return to active work. If so, the increase becomes effective on the date Clarica establishes. If Clarica doesn’t approve the evidence of insurability required, the increase will not be effective.
N.B.: As an Active Permanent Employee (Classes A1 and A2), you may change your choice of options as follows:
Extended Health Insurance and Dental Insurance: on January 1 of each year. If you choose the Enhanced plan, you must remain at that level for at least two complete calendar years.
Long Term Disability Insurance: on January 1 of each year. If you change from the Basic to the Optional benefit, you must submit evidence of insurability to us.
Dependant Optional Life Insurance: on January 1 of each year. If you choose an option of an higher amount, you must submit evidence of insurability to us for your spouse. You may also change your option following a change in your personal situation (marriage, birth of a child, etc.); if you request the change in option within 31 days following the change in your personal situation, evidence of insurability is not required.
Subrogation
Subrogation is a legal practice giving Clarica the right to be reimbursed for benefits paid to you if you have been compensated by another person who is responsible for your loss. The intent of subrogation is to limit your benefit payments to the amount you actually lost.
Let’s assume a person is responsible for your disability, and is required to compensate you for any of the loss that results from your disability. If Clarica is paying or has paid
Commencement and Termination (b(07v)	F-3
January 1, 2001 (40396)
your loss of income benefits, you may be receiving more income than you earned before you became disabled. In that case, you would reimburse Clarica for the loss of income benefits Clarica has paid. If you receive an amount for future loss of income, that amount will reduce your future loss of income benefits from Clarica.
Subrogation also appliesto any medical and/or dental expensesyou have been paid as a result of an injury caused by another person. Once you are compensatedby the person who is responsible for your loss, you must reimburse Clarica.
If subrogation applies to your claim, Clarica will contactyou to obtain the information required to proceed. You will be required to sign an undertakingto reimburse Clarica for any amount recovered which exceeds 100% of income or expenses. Before agreeing to a settlement of your claim, Clarica's approval must be obtained.
Comparable Coverage
If your dependant is insured for comparable coverage under another plan, you may decline the dependant coverage for the Extended Health/Dental coverage offered under this plan. If this comparable coverage stops, you may request the similar coverage offered under this plan.
The insurance that replaces the comparable coverage is effective on the date that the comparable coverage stops.
If you request the dependant coverage more than 31 days after the comparable coverage stops, you must submit evidence of insurability for each dependant to Clarica. The insurance that replaces the comparable coverage is effective on the date that Clarica approves the evidence of insurability. If Clarica does not approve evidence of insurability required, the insurance will not be effective.
Termination of Insurance
Your insurance could terminate for a number of reasons. For example,
•	you are no longer eligible,(i.e. you are no longer actively working),
•	you reach the Termination Age,
•	the provision or the policy terminates.
Your wallet certificate must be returned to your plan administrator
Commencement and Termination (bff07v)	F-4
Januaiy 1,2001 (40396)
Member Basic and Optional Life Insurance Provision
Benefit
The amount of benefit will be paid to your beneficiary upon your death. If no beneficiary has been appointed or if the beneficiary has predeceased you, payment will be made to your estate.
If you become totally disabled before age 65, your Life Insurance may be continued. Premiums for the continued insurance will be waived after you have been totally disabled from the same or related causes for six continuous months or, if you are also insured for group Long Term Disability Insurance with Clarica, when you begin receiving group Long Term Disability payments.
Claims
A death claim must be received by Clarica within 6 years of the date of death. The claimant must submit proof of the claim and the right to receive the benefit to Clarica.
There is a time limit for proceedings against Clarica for payment of a claim. Proceedings must be started within 1 year of Clarica's receipt of the proof of claim.
Death Benefit - Exclusion
No benefit is payable for any amount of Optional Life Insurance that has been in force for less than 2 years if death is due to suicide while sane or insane.
At Termination
If your Life Insurance terminates because you are no longer eligible, and this provision continues in force, you may convert it to an individual policy on your life up to the lesser of
•	the amount of the insurance terminated,
•	the maximum amount of insurance for which you have been insured under this provision less the total amount of individual insurance still in force on your life which was previously obtained through the Conversion Privilege of this provision, or
•	$200,000 (combined maximum for Basic and Optional Life Insurance).
If your insurance terminates while this provision continues in force and you die within 31 days after termination of insurance, the amount of insurance which you could have converted to an individual policy on your life through the Conversion Privilege of this provision will be paid to your beneficiary.
If your Life Insurance terminates because this provision terminates, and you have been continuously insured under this provision for the five year period before the termination
Member Basic and Optional Life Insurance Provision (bg02v013)	G-l
January 1,2001 (40396)
of this provision, you may convert it to an individual policy on your life up to the lesser of
•	the amount of the insurance terminated less the amount of insurance in force under a new group policy that replaces this policy, or
•	3 times the Year's Maximum Pensionable Earnings as established under the Canada Pension Plan in the year that this provision terminated.
If you convert your Life Insurance, you must apply and pay the premium to Clarica within 31 days after termination of insurance.
If you have any questions about this conversionprivilege, please contact your plan administrator or the nearest Clarica office.
Member Basic and Optional Life Insurance Provision (bg02v013)	G-2
January 1,2001 (40396)
Dependant Optional Life Insurance Provision
Benefit
The amount of benefit will be paid to you upon the death of your insured dependant.
If you become totally disabled, your Dependant Life Insurance may be continued without payment of premiums as long as your Member Life insurance premiums are waived.
Claims
A claim must be received by Clarica within 6 years of the date of death. You must submit proof of claim and the right to receive the benefit to Clarica.
There is a time limit for proceedings against Clarica for payment of a claim. Proceedings must be started within 1 year of Clarica's receipt of the proof of claim.
Death Benefit - Exclusions
No benefit is payable for an insured dependant who dies before reaching the age of 24 hours.
No benefit is payable for any amount of Optional Dependant Life Insurance that has been in force for less than 2 years if death is due to suicide, while sane or insane.
At Termination
If your Dependant Life Insurance for your spouse terminates due to the termination of your Member Life Insurance and this provision continues in force, your spouse may convert the amount of the dependant insurance terminated to an individual policy on his life.
Your spouse must apply and pay the premium to Clarica within 31 days after termination of insurance.
If your Dependant Life Insurance terminates while this provision continues in force and your spouse dies within 31 days after termination of insurance, the amount of insurance which your spouse could have converted to an individual policy on his life through the Conversion Privilege of this provision will be paid to you.
Dependant Optional Life InsuranceProvision (bhOl v009)	H-l
January 1,2001 (40396)
Member Basic Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance Provision
Benefit
The amount of death benefit will be paid to your beneficiary upon your death. If no beneficiary has been appointed or, if the beneficiary has predeceased you, payment will be made to your estate. The amount of dismemberment benefit will be paid to you.
If a claim is submitted for Repatriation, payment will be made to your estate. If a claim is submitted for OccupationalTraining for Spouse, Clarica will pay your spouse. If a claim is submitted for Education Benefit for Dependant Child, Clarica will pay your dependent child.
Depending on the loss suffered by you, the amount of benefit is limited to the percentage shown in the Schedule of Losses.
Schedule of Losses
Loss of Life Hemiplegia Paraplegia Quadriplegia
Loss of Both Hands, Both Feet or Sight of Both Eyes
Loss of One Hand and One Foot
Loss of One Hand and Sight of One Eye
Loss of One Foot and Sight of One Eye
Loss of Speech and Hearing
Loss of Use of Both Hands or Both Feet
Loss of Use of One Hand and One Foot
Loss of One Arm or One Leg
Loss of Use of One Arm or One Leg
Loss of One Hand, One Foot or Sight of One Eye
Loss of Use of One Hand or One Foot
Loss of Speech or Hearing
Loss of Hearing in One Ear
Loss of Thumb and Index Finger of One Hand
Loss of Four Fingers of One Hand
Loss of All Toes of One Foot
100%
200%
200%
200%
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
75%
75%
67%
67%
50%
50%
33%
33%
25%
If you suffer more than one of the losses listed above as a result of one accident, Clarica will pay the amount of benefit for only one loss. That loss will be the highest of the losses suffered by you.
When proof is received ty Clarica that you have sufferedany of the losses due directly to bodily injury caused solely by an accident, the amount of benefit will be paid, provided all of the following conditions are met:
Member Basic Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance Provision
(bi01s009)	1-1
January 1, 2001 (40396)
•	The accident must occur while you are insured under this provision.
•	The loss must occur within 365 days of the date of the accident.
If you become totally disabled, your Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance may be continued without payment of premiums as long as your Member Life Insurance premiums are waived.
Repatriation
If you suffer loss of life, Clarica will pay the reasonable and customary expenses, limited to a maximum of $ 10,000, for the preparation and transportation of your body from the place of the accident to your place of permanent residence.
The accidental death must occur at a distance of 150 kilometres or more from your place of permanent residence.
Rehabilitation
If you suffer any of the losses, Clarica will pay the reasonable and customary expenses, limited to a maximum of $10,000, to train you for active employment in an occupation for which you would not have engaged except for those injuries.
The expenses must be incurred within 2 years of the date of the accident.
No payment will be made for room or board or other ordinary living, travelling, or clothing expenses.
Occupational Training for Spouse
If you suffer loss of life, Clarica will pay the reasonable and customary expenses, limited to a maximum of $10,000, to enrolyour spouse in an accredited occupational training program to qualify him for active employment in an occupation for which he would not otherwise have sufficient qualifications.
The expenses must be incurred within 3 years of the date of the accident.
No payment will be made for room or board or other ordinary living, travelling, or clothing expenses.
Education Benefit for Dependent Child
If you suffer loss of life, Clarica will pay the reasonable and customary tuition expenses to enrol your dependent child as a full-time student at a post-secondary institution provided
1.	your dependent child is enrolled as a full-time student at a post-secondary institution at the time of the accident, or
Member Basic Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance Provision
(bi01s009)	1-2
January 1, 2001 (40396)
2.	your dependent child is a student at the secondary school level and, within 365 days of the date of the accident, he enrols as a full-time student at a post-secondary institution.
The maximum amount of benefit payable for each year that your dependent child is enrolled as a full-time student at a post-secondary institution will be the lesser of
1.	5% of your amount of benefit, or
2.	$5,000.
The amount of benefit will be paid each year, up to 4 consecutive years, after Clarica receives proof that your dependent child is enrolled as a full-time student at a postsecondary institution.
No payment will be made for:
1.	tuition expenses incurred before the date of the accident.
2.	room or board or other ordinary living, travelling, or clothing expenses.
A post-secondary institution includes any accredited university, technical college, trade school, community college, or private college that provides an education above the secondary school level.
Claims
A death claim must be received by Clarica within 6 years of the date of death. A claim for a loss must be received by Clarica within 3 months of the date of the loss. All other claims must be received by Clarica within 3 months of the date that the expense is incurred. The claimant must submit proof of claim and the right to receive the benefit to Clarica.
There is a time limit for proceedings against Clarica for payment of a claim. Proceedings must be started within 1 year of Clarica's receipt of the proof of claim.
Member Basic Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance Provision
(bi01s009)	1-3
January 1,2001 (40396)
Exclusions
No benefit is payable for a loss directly or indirectly due to
1.	suicide, while sane or insane,
2.	self-inflicted injuries, while sane or insane,
3.	disease,
4.	civil disorder or war, whether or not war was declared,
5.	full-time service in the armed forces of any country,
6.	injuries received while riding in, or on, or boarding or alighting from an aircraft if, when the injuries were received,
a.	you were operating, learning to operate or serving as a member of a crew of any aircraft, or
b.	the aircraft was being used for crop dusting, crop spraying, seeding, skywriting, racing, testing, exploration or any other purpose except transportation.
Member Basic Accidental Death and Dismemberment InsuranceProvision (bi01s009)	1-4
January 1, 2001 (40396)
Optional Member Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance Provision
Amount of Benefit
The amount of Optional Member Accidental E&&1 and Dismemberment Insurance is equal to the amount of Optional Group Life Insurance.
The amount of death benefit will be paid to your beneficiary upon your death. If no beneficiary has been appointed or, if the beneficiary has predeceased you, we will pay your estate. The amount of dismemberment benefit will be paid to you.
If a claim is submitted for Repatriation, we will pay your estate. If a claim is submitted for Occupational Training for Spouse, we will pay your spouse. If a claim is submitted for Education Benefit for Dependant Child, we will pay your dependent child.
Depending on the loss suffered by you, the amount of benefit is limited to the percentage shown in the Schedule of Losses.
Schedule of Losses
Loss of Life Hemiplegia Paraplegia Quadriplegia
Loss of Both Hands, Both Feet or Sight of Both Eyes Loss of One Hand and One Foot Loss of One Hand and Sight of One Eye Loss of One Foot and Sight of One Eye Loss of Speech and Hearing Loss of Use of Both Hands or Both Feet Loss of Use of One Hand and One Foot Loss of One Arm or One Leg Loss of Use of One Arm or One Leg Loss of One Hand, One Foot or Sight of One Eye Loss of Use of One Hand or One Foot Loss of Speech or Hearing
Optional Member Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance Provision
(bilop009)	11-1
January 1,2001 (40396)
100%
200%
200%
200%
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
75%
75%
67%
67%
50%
Loss of Heating in One Ear	50%
Loss of Thumb and Index Finger of One Hand	33%
Loss of Four Fingers of One Hand	33%
Loss of All Toes of One Foot	25%
If you suffer more than one of the losses listed above as a result of one accident, Clarica will pay the amount of benefit for only one loss. That loss will be the highest of the losses suffered by you.
When proof is received by Clarica that you have suffered any of the losses due directly to bodily injury caused solely by an accident, the amount of benefit will be paid, provided all of the following conditions are met:
• The accident must occur while you are insured under this provision.
e The loss must occur within 365 days of the date of the accident.
If you become totally disabled, your Optional Member Accidental Death and DismembermentInsurance may be continued without payment of premiums as long as your Optional Group Life Insurance premiums are waived.
Repatriation
If you suffer loss of life, we will pay the reasonable and customary expenses, limited to a maximum of $ 10,000, for the preparation and transportation of your body from the place of the accident to the place of permanent residence.
The accident must occur at a distance of 150 kilometres or more from your place of permanent residence.
Rehabilitation
If you suffer any of the losses, we will pay the reasonable and customary expenses, limited to a maximum of $10,000, to trainyou for active employment in an occupation for which you would not have engaged except for those injuries.
The expenses must be incurred within 2 years of the date of the accident.
No payment will be made for room or board or other ordinary living, travelling, or clothing expenses.
Occupational Training for Spouse
If you suffer loss of life, we will pay the reasonable and customary expenses, limited to a maximum of $ 10,000, to enrol your spouse in an accredited occupational training program to qualify him for active employment in an occupation for which he would not otherwise have sufficient qualifications.
Optional Member Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance Provision
(bilop009)	11-2
January 1, 2001 (40396)
The expenses rast be incurred within 3 years of the date of the accident.
No payment will be made for room or board or other ordinary living, travelling, or clothing expenses.
Education Benefit for Dependent Child
If you suffer loss of life, we will pay the reasonable and customary tuition expenses to enrol your dependent child as a full-time student at a post-secondary institution provided
1.	your dependent child is enrolled as a full-time student at a post-secondary institution at the time of the accident, or
2.	your dependent child is a student at the secondary school level and, within 365 days of the accident, he enrols as a full-time student at a post-secondary institution.
The maximum amount of benefit payable for each year that your dependent child is enrolled as a full-time student at a post-secondary institution will be the lesser of:
1.	5% of your amount of benefit, or
2.	$5,000.
The amount of benefit will be paid each year, up to 4 consecutive years, after we receive proof that your dependent child is enrolled as a full-time student at a post-secondary institution.
No payment will be made for:
1.	tuition expenses incurred before the date of the accident.
2.	room or board or other ordinary living, travelling, or clothing expenses.
A post-secondary institution includes any accredited university, technical college, trade school, commmunity college, or private college that provides an education above the secondary school level.
Claims
A death claim must be received by Clarica within 6 years of the date of death. A claim for a loss must be received by Clarica within 3 months of the date of the loss. All other claims must be received by Clarica within 3 months of the date that the expense is incurred. The claimantmust submit proof of the claim and the right to receive the benefit to Clarica.
There is a time limit for proceedings against Clarica for payment of a claim. Proceedings must be started within 1 year of Clarica's receipt of the proof of claim.
Exclusions
No benefit is payable for a loss directly or indirectly due to
1.	suicide, while sane or insane,
Optional Member Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance Provision
(bilop009)	11-3
January 1, 2001 (40396)
2.	self-inflictedinjuries, while sane or insane,
3.	disease,
4.	civil disorder or war, whether or not war was declared,
5.	full-time service in the armed forces of any country,
6.	injuries received while riding in, or on, or boarding or alighting from an aircraft if, when the injuries were received,
a.	you were operating, learning to operate or serving as a member of a crew of any aircraft, or
b.	the aircraft was being used for crop dusting, crop spraying, seeding, sky-writing, racing, testing, exploration or any other purpose except transportation.
Optional Member Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance Provision
(bilop009)	11-4
January 1, 2001 (40396)
Optional Dependant Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance Provision
Benefit
The amount of Optional Dependant Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance is equal to the amount of Optional Dependant Life Insurance.
The amount of benefit will be paid to you.
Depending on the loss suffered by your insured dependant, the amount of benefit is limited to the percentage shown in the Scheduleof Losses.
Schedule of Losses
Loss of Life Hemiplegia Paraplegia Quadriplegia
Loss of Both Hands, Both Feet or Sight of Both Eyes
Loss of One Hand and One Foot
Loss of One Hand and Sight of One Eye
Loss of One Foot and Sight of One Eye
Loss of Speech and Hearing
Loss of Use of Both Hands or Both Feet
Loss of Use of One Hand and One Foot
Loss of One Arm or One Leg
Loss of Use of One Arm or One Leg
Loss of One Hand, One Foot or Sight of One Eye
Loss of Use of One Hand or One Foot
Loss of Speech or Hearing
Loss of Hearing in One Ear
Loss of Thumb and Index Finger of One Hand
Loss of Four Fingers of One Hand Loss of All Toes of One Foot
100%
200%
200%
200%
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
75%
75%
67%
67%
50%
50%
33%
33%
25%
If your insured dependant suffers more than one of the losses listed above as a result of one accident, Clarica will pay the amount of benefit for only one loss. That loss will be the highest of the losses suffered by your insured dependant.
When proof is received ty Clarica that your insured dependant has sufferedany of the losses due directly to bodily injury caused solely by an accident, the amount of benefit will be paid, provided all of the following conditions are met: •
•	The accident must occur while your dependant is insured under this provision.
•	The loss must occur within 365 days of the date of the accident.
Optional Dependant Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance Provision
(bj01v006)	J-l
January 1, 2001 (40396)
No benefit is payable for any loss suffered by an insured dependant if the loss occurs before he reaches the age of 2 years.
If you become totally disabled, your Dependant Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance may be continued without payment of premiums as long as your Member Life Insurance premiums are waived.
Repatriation
If your dependant suffers loss of life, Clarica will pay the reasonable and customary expenses, limited to a maximum of $ 10,000, for the preparation and transportation of your dependant's body from the place of the accident to his place of permanent residence.
The accidental death must occur at a distance of 150 kilometres or more from your dependant's place of permanent residence.
Claims
A death claim must be received by Clarica within 6 years of the date of death. A claim for a loss must be received by Clarica within 3 months of the date of the loss. All other claims must be received by Clarica within 3 months of the date that the expense is incurred. The claimantmust submitproof of claim and the right to receive the benefit to Clarica.
There is a time limit for proceedings against Clarica for payment of a claim. Proceedings must be started within 1 year of Clarica's receipt of the proof of claim.
Exclusions
No benefit is payable for a loss directly or indirectly due to
1.	suicide, while sane or insane,
2.	self-inflicted injuries, while sane or insane,
3.	disease,
4.	civil disorder or war, whether or not war was declared,
5.	full-time service in the armed forces of any country,
6.	injuries received while riding in, or on, or boarding or alighting from an aircraft if, when the injuries were received,
a.	your insured dependant was operating, learning to operate or serving as a member of a crew of any aircraft, or
b.	the aircraft was being used for crop dusting, crop spraying, seeding, skywriting, racing, testing, exploration or any other purpose except transportation,
7.	injuries arising out of, or in the course of any employment for wage or profit for any amount of Optional Dependant Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance.
Optional Dependant Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance Provision
(bj01v006)	J-2
January 1,2001 (40396)
Long Term Disability Insurance Provision
Qualifying for Monthly Disability Benefits
You qualify for benefits whenClarica receives proof that:
1.	you are absent from active work because you are totally disabled,
2.	you are totally disabled for as long as the qualifyingperiod, and
3.	you are underthe active and continuous care of a physician whom Clarica considers to be appropriate to your total disability and you are following the treatment prescribed by that physician.
Your Monthly Disability Benefit
Your monthly disability benefit is calculated as shown on the Summary of Insurance at the front of this booklet.
Income to which you are entitled under a government plan will reduce your monthly disability benefit unless Clarica receives proof that the initial application and an appeal, or a later re-application required by Clarica, have been declined.
Increases in the disability income payable under a government plan may occur because of an automatic adjustment in the cost of living. These increases will not further reduce your monthly disability benefit.
The total income you receive from all sources will not be less than your monthly disability benefit.
Your monthly disability benefit will not be reduced by any disability or retirement income you receive from the following sources:
1.	a policy which is solely an individual disability income policy.
2.	a disability attachmentto an individual life insurance policy.
3.	a retirement income plan providing income that becomes payable before you become totally disabled.
Rehabilitation
If your total disability prevents you from returning to work, Clarica may be able to assist you by providing a rehabilitation program that will help you return to the workforce. A rehabilitation program is limited to one or more of the following:
1.	assessment,
2.	counselling,
3.	vocational retraining or an educational program,
4.	trial work, part-time or modified work.
Long Term Disability Insurance Provision (bl02v019)	L-l
Jammy 1,2001 (40396)
If, after qualifying for benefits, you are receiving income from an approved rehabilitation program, your monthly disability benefit is reduced by 50% of that income. Your monthly disability benefit is further reduced so that the total income from all sources does not exceed 100% of your
•	gross monthly earnings in force on the date you became totally disabled, if the benefit is subject to income tax, or
•	net monthly earnings, in force on the date you became totally disabled, if the benefit is not subject to income tax.
Example:
Assume you are earning $2,000/month and have a 66 2/3% LTD benefit ($1,334.00). Rehabilitation income from your employer is $l,000/month. There is no income from other sources.
Rehabilitation Income + (Monthly Disability Benefit - 50% of Rehabilitation Income)
= $1,000 +($1,334.00- (50% of $1,000})
= $1,000 +$834.00 = $1,834.00
Since the benefit ($1,834.00/month) does not exceed your pre-disability monthly earnings ($2,000/month), there will be no reductions due to the 100% ail source maximum.
If you are participating in a rehabilitation program approved by Clarica, you continueto be considered totally disabled.
Payment of Monthly Disability Benefit
The monthly disability benefit will be paid to you when proof is received by Clarica that you are absent from active work because you are totally disabled. Benefits are paid in arrears and will begin one month after you become eligible to receive them. You will receive one-thirtieth of the monthly disability benefit for each full day you are totally disabled following the qualifying period.
Benefits are payable from the latest of
•	the end of the qualifying period,
•	the date you are no longer entitled to receive regular earnings or benefits under a salary continuance plan or short term disability income plan, or
•	the date you are no longer entitled to receive severance pay, payments in lieu of severance pay and damages, or settlements for wrongful dismissal.
If you become totally disabled, your Long Term Disability Insurance may be continued without payment of premiums while you are eligible to receive Long Term Disability benefit payments.
Claims
A claim must be received ty Clarica within 3 months after the end of the qualifying period. The qualifying period begins on the date you become totally disabled. Proof of continuing total disability may be required as often as necessary.
Long Term Disability Insurance Provision (bI02v019)	L-2
Januaiy 1,2001 (40396)
If you are receiving Workers' Compensation, Workplace Safety Insurance Act or similar legislation's benefits, you must submit a claim for the monthly disability benefit.
There is a time limit for appealing Clarica's decision to decline or terminate a claim. An appeal nust be made within 3 months of such a decision and must be accompaniedby new objective medical evidence.
There is a time limit for proceedings against Clarica for payment of a claim. A proceeding must be started within 1 year of Clarica's receipt of the application for claim.
At Termination
If the Long Term Disability provision terminates while you are totally disabled, you will continue to be eligible for this benefit as if it were still in force.
Exclusions and Limitations
No benefit is payable for a total disability due to or related to
•	intentionally self-inflicted injuries,
•	civil disorder or war, whether or not war was declared.
You are not considered totally disabled due to the use of drugs or alcohol unless you are being actively supervised by and receiving continuous treatment for that total disability from a rehabilitation centre or an institution provincially designated for that treatment.
Long Term Disability Insurance Provision (bl02v019)	L-3
January 1,2001 (40396)
Extended Health Insurance Provision
Benefit
You will be reimbursed when you submit proof to Clarica that you or your insured dependant has incurred any of the eligible espenses for medically necessary services required for the treatment of disease or bodily injury. The total amount of eligible expensesyou submit to Clarica as a claim will be adjusted as follows:
1.	the deductible, which is an amount that you must pay each calendar year, is subtracted,
2.	the reimbursement percentage, which is the percentage of the eligibleexpense submitted that Clarica will pay, is applied, and
3.	the maximum is applied.
The intentional omission, misrepresentation or falsification of information relating to any claim constitutes fraud.
Co-ordination of Benefits
If you or your insured dependant are insured under another policy and the other policy does not contain a co-ordination of benefits clause, payment under the other policy must be made first.
If the other policy does contain a co-ordination of benefits clause, priority of payment will be attributed in the following order:
Member
1.	The plan where the person is covered as a member,
2.	If a person is covered under two plans, priority goes to
•	the plan where the member is a full-time employee,
•	the plan where the member is a part-time employee,
•	the plan where the member is a retiree.
Spouse
3.	The plan where the person is covered as a member.
Dependent Child
4.	The plan of the parent with the earlier birthdate (month/day) in the calendar year.
5.	The plan of the parent whose first name begins with the earlier letter in the alphabet, if the parents have the same birthdate.
6.	In situations where parents are separated/divorced, then the following order applies,
•	the plan of the parent with custody of the dependent child,
•	the plan of the spouse of the parent with custody of the dependent child,
Extended Health Insurance Provision (bmOl v032)	M-l
January 1,2001 (40396)
•	the plan of the parent not having custody of the dependent child,
•	the plan of the spouse of the parent not having custody of the dependent child.
If a dental accident occurs, health plans with dental accident coverage will pay benefits before dental plans.
If priority cannot be established in the above manner, the benefits will be prorated in proportion to the amount that would have been paid under each policy had there been coverage by only that policy.
Following payment under another policy, the amount of benefit payable under this policy will not exceed the total amount of eligible expenses incurred less the amount paid by the other policy.
Claims
A claim must be received by Clarica within 18 months of the date that the expense is incurred. For the assessment of a claim, itemized bills, attending physician statements or other necessary information are required.
If your physician is recommending medical treatment that is expected to cost more than $ 1,000, you should request pre-authorization to ensure that the expenses are covered.
There is a time limit for proceedings against Clarica for payment of a claim. Proceedings must be started within 1 year of Clarica's receipt of the proof of claim.
At Termination
If, on the date of termination of your insurance,
•	you have a medically determinable physical or mental impairment due to injury or disease which prevents you from performing the regular duties of the occupation in which you participated]ust before the impairment started, regardless of the availability of work for you, or
•	your insured dependant has a medically determinable physical or mental impairment due to injury or disease, is receiving treatment from a physician and is confined to a hospital or his home,
benefits will be payable for eligible expenses related to the impairment provided they are incurred within 90 days of the date of termination and this provision continues in force.
If you die, your insured dependant's Extended Health Insurance Benefits will be continued for 12 months without payment of premiums as long as the Extended Health Insurance provision remains in force. Your dependants must contact your Plan Administrator to arrange the extension of coverage.
Exclusions
No benefit is payable for
• expenses for which benefits are payable under a Workers' Compensation Act, Workplace Safety and Insurance Act or a similar statute,
Extended Health Insurance Provision (bmOl v032)	M-2
Januaiy 1, 2001 (40396)
•	expenses incurred due to intentionally self-inflicted injuries,
•	expenses incurred due to civil disorder or war, whether or not war was declared,
•	expenses for services and products, rendered or prescribed by a person who is ordinarily a resident in the patient's home or who is related to tire patient by blood or marriage,
•	expenses for which benefits are payable under a government plan,
•	expenses for benefits which are legally prohibited by the government from coverage,
•	out-of-provinceexpenses for elective (non-emergency)medical treatment or surgery.
Extended Health Insurance Provision (bm01v032)	M-3
January 1,2001 (40396)
Extended Health - Basic Drug Benefit
Eligible Expenses
Eligible expenses are the reasonable and customary charges for the following items of expense, provided they are medically necessary for the treatment of disease or injury, prescribed by a physician or dentist and dispensed by a registered pharmacist or physician:
1. drugs which legally require a prescription and are identified in the Monographs section of the current Compendiumof Pharmaceuticals and Specialties as a narcotic, controlled drug, or requiring a prescription.
2. life-sustaining drugs which may not legally require a prescription and are identified in the Therapeutic Guide section of the current Compendium of Pharmaceuticals and Specialties under the following headings:
•	anti-anginal agents
•	antiparkinsonism agents
•	bronchodilators
•	antihyperlipidemic agents
•	hyperthyroidism therapy
•	parasympathomimetic agents
•	tuberculosis therapy
•	anticholinergic preparations
•	anti-arrhythmic agents
•	glaucoma therapy
•	insulin preparations
•	oral fibrinolytic agents
•	potassium replacement therapy
•	topical enzymatic debriding agents
3.	injectible drugs.
4.	compounded prescriptions where one of the ingredients is an eligible expense.
5.	needles, syringes, and chemical diagnostic aids for the treatment of diabetes.
6.	smoking cessation aids (including patches andNicorette gum), subject to a lifetime maximum of $5 50.
7.	anesthetic agent for vasectomy.
8.	expenses for drugs used for the treatment of erectile dysfunction, subject to a maximum of $ 1,200 per calendar year.
Exclusions
No benefit is payable for
1. the portion of expenses for which reimbursement is provided by a government plan,
2.	expenses for drugs which do not legally require a prescription, except those specified under Eligible Expenses,
Extended Health - Basic Drug Benefit (bn02v032)	N-l
January 1, 2001 (40396)
3.	expenses for drugs which are experimental,
4.	expenses for dietary supplements, vitamins and infant foods,
5.	expenses for contraceptives (other than oral),
6.	expenses for drugs which are used for cosmetic purposes,
7.	expenses for drugs used for the treatment of obesity,
8.	the yearly or per prescription deductible on drugs that are eligible under the Ontario Drug Benefit plan and are purchased by you or your insured spouse who is age 65 or over,
9.	drugs for the treatment of infertility, and
10.	expenses incurred under any ofthe conditions listed on the Extended Health insuranceProvision page as an Exclusion.
Extended Health - Basic Drug Benefit (bn02v032)	N-2
January!, 2001 (40396)
Extended Health -Vision Benefit - Option 2 -
Enhanced Plan
Definitions
Ophthalmologist
means a person licensed to practise ophthalmology.
Optometrist
means a member of the Canadian Association of Optometrists or of a provincial association associated with it.
Reasonable and customary charges
mean those which are usually made to a person without insurance for the items of expense listed under Eligible Expenses and which do not exceed the general level of charges in the area where the expense is incurred.
Eligible Expenses
Eligible expenses mean reasonable and customary charges for the following items of expense:
eyeglasses and contact lenses and repairs to them that are necessary for the correction of vision and are prescribed by an ophthalmologist or optometrist, limited to the maximum specified in the Summary of Insurance for eligible expenses incurred during a 24 month period for you and for each insured dependant.
Exclusions
No benefit is payable for
1.	expenses incurred under any of the conditions listed on the Extended Health
Insurance Provision page as an Exclusion.
Preferred Vision Services (PVS)
The Preferred Vision Services (PVS) vision care program enables you to purchase eyewear at savings of up to 20%. These savings are available on all frames, prescription lenses and lens add-ons at registered PVS locations. Most locations will also apply the discount to non-prescriptioneyewear and accessory items. This provision applies if your plan has extended health coverage. You do not have to be insured for Vision Care benefits to receive the discount.
PVS locations can be identified by calling the PVS information centre toll-free number 1800-668-6444. You willneedto showyourPVS identification card or your Clarica
Extended Health -Vision Benefit - Option 2 - EnhancedPlan (bo01v032)	0-1
January 1, 2001 (40396)
group benefits identification certificate when you visit the practitioner. If you have vision care coverage, submityour claim to Clarica.
Extended Health -Vision Benefit - Option 2 -Enhanced Plan (boOl v032)	0-2
January 1,2001 (40396)
Extended Health - Hospital Benefit - Option 1 - Basic
Plan
Definitions
Hospital
means a legally licensed hospital which provides facilities for diagnosis, major surgery and the care and treatment of a person suffering from disease or injury, on an in-patient basis, with24 hour services by registered nurses and physicians. This includes legally licensed hospitals providing specialized treatment for mental illness, drug and alcohol addiction, cancer, arthritis and convalescing or chronically ill persons when approved by Clarica, This does not include nursing homes, homes for the aged, rest homes or other places providing similar care.
Reasonable and customary charges
mean those which are usually made to a person without insurance for the items of expense listed under Eligible Expenses and which do not exceed the general level of charges in the area where the expense is incurred.
Eligible Expenses
Eligible expenses mean reasonable and customary charges for semi-private accommodationin a hospital, limited to the difference between the charges for public ward and semi-privateaccommodation for each day of hospitalization.
Exclusions
No benefit is payable for
1.	expenses incurred under any of the conditions listed on the Extended Health Insurance Provision page as an Exclusion.
Extended Health -Hospital Benefit - Option 1 -Basic Plan (bpOl v032)	Pl-1
January 1, 2001 (40396)
Extended Health - Hospital Benefit - Option 2 -
Enhanced Plan
Definitions
Hospital
means a legally licensed hospital which provides facilities for diagnosis, major surgery and the care and treatment of a person suffering from disease or injury, on an in-patient basis, with 24 hour services by registered nurses and physicians. This includes legally licensed hospitals providing specialized treatment for mental illness, drug and alcohol addiction, cancer, arthritisand convalescing or chronically ill persons when approved by Clarica. This does not include nursing homes, homes for the aged, rest homes or other places providing similar care.
Reasonable and customary charges
mean those which are usually made to a person without insurance for the items of expense listed under Eligible Expenses and which do not exceed the general level of charges in the area where the expense is incurred.
Eligible Expenses
Eligible expenses mean reasonable and customary charges for private accommodation in a hospital, limited to the difference between the charges for public ward and private accommodation for each day of hospitalization.
Exclusions
No benefit is payable for
1.	expenses incurred under any of the conditions listed on the Extended Health
insurance Provision page as an Exclusion.
Extended Health -Hospital Benefit- Option2 - EnhancedPlan (bp02v032) P2-1
January 1, 2001 (40396)
Extended Health - Supplementary Health Care Benefit
Definitions
Acupuncturist
means a person who is listed on the appropriate provincial registry.
Audiologist
means a member of the Canadian Speech & Hearing Association or of any provincial association affiliated therewith.
Chiropractor
means a member of the Canadian Chiropractic Association or of a provincial association affiliated with it.
Convalescent Hospital
means a legally licensed hospital with beds or units designated for convalescent care and which provides facilities for diagnosis, care and ttEatnet of a person suffering from disease or injury on a 24 hour basis, with 24 hour services by registered nurses and physicians. This does not include nursing homes, homes for the aged, rest homes or other places providing similar care.
Homeopath
means a person who is listed on the appropriate provincial registry.
Hospital
means a legally licensed hospital which provides facilities for diagnosis, major surgery and the care and treatment of a person suffering from disease or injury, on an in-patient basis, with 24 hour services by registered nurses and physicians. This includes legally licensed hospitals providing specialized treatment for mental illness, drug and alcohol addiction, cancer, arthritis and convalescing or chronically ill persons when approved by Clarica. This does not include nursing homes, homes for the aged, rest homes or other places providing similar care.
Naturopath
means a member of the Canadian Naturopathic Association or any provincial association affiliated with it.
Occupational Therapist
means a person licensed by the appropriate provincial licensing authority.
Osteopath
means a person who holds the degree of doctor of osteopathic medicine from a college of osteopathic medicine approved by the Canadian Osteopathic Association.
Extended Health - Supplementary Health Care Benefit (bq02v032)	Q-l
January 1, 2001 (40396)
Physiotherapist
means a member of the Canadian PhysiotherapyAssociation or of a provincial association affiliated with it.
Psychologist
means a permanently certified psychologist who is listed on the appropriate provincial registry in the province in which the service is rendered.
Podiatrist
means a person licensed by the appropriate provincial licensing authority. Reasonable and customary charges
mean those which are usually made to a person without insurance for the items of expense listed under Eligible Expenses and which do not exceed the general level of charges in the area where the expense is incurred.
Registered Massage Therapist
means a person licensed by the appropriate provincial licensing body or in the absence of a provincial licensing body, a person whose qualifications Clarica determines to be comparable with those required by a licensing body.
Registered Nurse, Registered Nursing Assistant, Certified Nursing Assistant, Licensed Practical Nurse, Registered Practical Nurse
means a nurse, nursing assistant or practical nurse or certified nursing assistant who is listed on the appropriate provincial registry.
Speech Language Pathologist
means a person who holds a master's degree in Speech Language Pathology and is a member or is qualified to be a member of the Canadian Speech and Hearing Association or any provincial association affiliated with it.
Extended Health - Supplementary Health Care Benefit (bq02v032)	Q-2
January 1, 2001 (40396)
Eligible Expenses - Option 1 - Basic Plan
To be eligible, the expenses must be medically necessary for the treatment of disease or bodily injury and prescribed by a physician.
Eligible expenses are the reasonable and customary charges for the items of expense listed below.
1.	the services of the following practitioners, limited to a calendaryear maximum of $300 for each practitioner.
a.	a physiotherapist*,
b.	a speech language pathologist*,
c.	a psychologist*,
d.	a chiropractor*,
e.	an audiologist*, and
f.	an occupational therapist*.
* physician's prescription not required.
The practitioner must be registered with the appropriate association or registry. Where applicable, expenses for practitioners' services eligible under a provincial health care plan will be reimbursed before your expenses exceed the annual maximums under your provincial plan, starting from the first visit to the practitioner.
2. the services of a dental surgeon, including dental prosthesis, required for the treatment of a fracturedjaw or for the treatment of accidental injuries to natural teeth if the fracture or injury was caused by external, violent and accidental means, provided the service s are performed within 6 months of the accident but excluding servicesrequired in conjunction with such fracture or injury due to a condition that existed before the accident. A physician's prescription is not required.
3. licensed ground ambulance service to the nearest hospital equipped to provide the required treatment when the physical condition of the patient prevents the use of another means of transportation.
4.	emergency air ambulance service to the nearest hospital equippedto provide the required treatment when the physical condition of the patient prevents the use of another means of transportation, and, if the patient requires the services of a registered nurse during the flight, the services and return air fare for a registered nurse.
5.	trusses and crutches.
6.	plaster of paris or fibreglass casts.
7.	braces, provided they are not solely for athletic use.
8.	artificiallimbs or other prosthetic appliances, provided the loss is incurred while the person is insured under this benefit.
9.	oxygen.
10.	diagnostic laboratory and x-ray examinations.
11.	rental, or purchase at Clarica's option, of durable equipment which is required €or temporary therapeutic use in the patient's home and is approved by Clarica. Eligible durableequipment includes, but is not limited to, items such as:
a.	wheel chairs,
Extended Health - Supplementary Health Care Benefit (bq02v032)	Q-3
January 1, 2001 (40396)
b.	walkers,
c.	hospital beds.
12.	electronic heart pacemaker.
13.	intrauterine devices, excluding fees for insertion.
14.	blood and plasma.
Extended Health - Supplementary Health Care Benefit (bq02v032)	Q-4
January 1, 2001 (40396)
Eligible Expenses - Option 2 - Enhanced Plan
To be eligible, the expenses must be medically necessary for the treatment of disease or bodily injury and prescribed by a physician.
Eligible expenses are the reasonable and customary charges for the items of expense listed below.
1.	the services of a registered nurse (R.N.), registered nursing assistant (R.N. A.), certifiednursing assistant (C.N. A.), licensed practical nurse (L.P.N.) or registered practical nurse (R.P.N.) when provided in the patient's home, limited to a maximum of $10,000 in a calendar year. To quality as an eligible expense, the patient's treatment must require the level of expertise of an R.N,, R.N. A., C.N. A., L.P.N,, or R.P.N.
2.	the services of the following practitioners, limited to a calendaryear maximum of $400 for each practitioner.
a.	a physiotherapist*,
b.	a registered massage therapist,
c.	a speech language pathologist*,
d.	a psychologist*,
e.	a chiropractor*,
f.	an osteopath*,
g.	a naturopath*,
h.	a podiatrist*,
i.	an acupuncturist*,
j.	an audiologist*,
k.	an occupationaltherapist*, and
l.	a homeopath*
* physician's prescription not required.
The practitioner must be registered with the appropriate association or registry. Where applicable, expenses for practitioners' services eligible under a provincial health care plan will be reimbursed before your expenses exceed the annual maximums under your provincial plan, starting from the first visit to the practitioner.
3.	the services of a dental surgeon, including dental prosthesis, required for the treatment of a fracturedjaw or for the treatment of accidental injuries to natural teeth if the fracture or injury was caused by external, violent and accidental means, provided the services are performed within 6 months of the accident but excluding services required in conjunction with such fracture or injury due to a condition that existed before the accident. A physician's prescription is not required.
4.	licensed ground ambulance service to the nearest hospital equipped to provide the required treatment when the physical condition of the patient prevents the use of another means of transportation.
5.	emergency air ambulance service to the nearest hospital equipped to provide the required treatment when the physical condition of the patient preventsthe use of another means of transportation, and, if the patient requires the services of a registered nurse during the flight, the services and return air fare for a registered nurse.
Extended Health - Supplementary Health Care Benefit (bq02v032)	Q-5
January 1, 2001 (40396)
6.	orthopaedic shoes and orthopaedic modifications to shoes, when they are required for the correction of deformity of the bones and muscles and provided they are not solely for athletic use and are prescribed by a physician, podiatrist, chiropodist or chiropractor, limited to a maximum of $200 in a calendaryear.
7.	hearing aids and repairs to them, excluding batteries, limited to a maximum of
•	$400 for eligible expenses incurred during a 2 year period for an insured person underage 14.
•	$400 for eligible expenses incurred during a 5 year period for an insured person age 14 and over.
8.	trusses and crutches.
9.	plaster of paris or fibreglass casts.
10.	braces, provided they are not solely for athletic use.
11.	artificial limbs or other prosthetic appliances, provided the loss is incurred while the person is insured under this benefit.
12.	oxygen.
13.	diagnostic laboratory and x-ray examinations.
14.	rental, or purchase at Clarica's option, of durable equipment which is required for temporary therapeutic use in the patient's home and is approved by Clarica. Eligible durable equipment includes, but is not limited to, items such as:
a.	wheel chairs,
b.	walkers,
c.	hospital beds.
15.	user feeina convalescenthospital, subjectto a maximum of $40 per day and 120 days per calendaryear. Confinement must occur within 14 days following discharge from an active unit in a public hospital and must be for the same sickness or injury for which hospital confinement was required.
16.	elastic support stockings, subjectto a maximum of 4 pairs per calendaryear,
17.	electronic heart pacemaker.
18.	intrauterine devices, excluding fees for insertion.
19.	blood and plasma.
Extended Health - Supplementary Health Care Benefit (bq02v032)	Q-6
January 1, 2001 (40396)
Exclusions (applicable to ail Options)
No benefit is payable for
1.	expenses for the services of a homemaker,
2.	expenses for items purchased solely for athletic use,
3.	dental expenses, except those specifically provided under Eligible Expenses for treatment of accidental injuries to natural teeth,
4.	utilization fees which are imposed by the provincial health care plan for the use of a service,
5.	expenses incurred under any of the conditions listed on the Extended Health Insurance Provision page as an Exclusion.
Extended Health - Supplementary Health Care Benefit (bq02v032)	Q-7
January 1,2001 (40396)
Extended Health - Out-of-Province Emergency and Travel Assistance Benefit
To be insured for this benefit, you and your insured dependant must have provincial health care coverage. Expenses for hospital/medical services and travel assistance benefits are eligible if
1.	they are incurred as a result of emergency treatment of a disease or injury which occurs outside your home province,
2.	they are medically necessary, and
3.	they are incurred due to an emergency which occurs during the first 60 days of travelling on vacation or business outside your home province. Your 60 days of coverage starts on the day you or your insured dependant departs from your home province.
Definitions
Emergency
means a sudden, unexpected occurrence (disease or injury) that requires immediate medical attention. This includes treatment (non-elective) for immediate relief of severe pain, suffering or disease which cannot be delayed until you or your insured dependant is medically able to return to your province of residence. For example, if you or your insured dependant has a medical condition that required treatment or a change in medication in the three months prior to departure, you should discuss the stability of the medical condition with your physician. If a questionable claim occurs, you will be asked to provide medical information from your physician to show that the expenses could not have been foreseen.
Family member
means you or your insured dependant.
Relative
means your spouse, parent, child, brother or sister.
Eligible Expenses for Hospital/Medical Services
Eligible expenses mean reasonable and customary charges for the following items of expense, less the amount payable by a govemmentplan:
1.	public ward accommodation and auxiliary hospital services in a general hospital,
2.	services of a physician,
3. economy air fare for the patient's return to his province of residence for medical treatment,
Extended Health - Out-of-Province Emergency and Travel Assistance Benefit
(bqtops32)	Ql-1
January 1, 2001 (40396)
4.	licensed ground ambulance service to the nearest hospital equipped to provide the required treatment, or to Canada, when the patient's physical Condition prevents the use of another means of transportation,
5.	emergency air ambulance service to the nearest hospital equipped to provide the required treatment, or to Canada, when the patient's physical condition prevents the use of another means of transportation, and if the patient requires a registered nurse during the flight, the services and return air fare for the registered nurse.
The maximum lifetime amount payable for the above Eligible Expenses is $ 1,000,000 for you and for each insured dependant.
Expenses that are included as Eligible Expenses under Drug, Vision, Hospital or Supplementary Elealth Care benefits are also eligible while you or your insured dependant is travelling outside Canada. These expenses are subjectto the deductibles and reimbursement percentages listed under the appropriate benefit in the Summary of Insurance.
Eligible Expenses for Travel Assistance Benefits
Eligible expenses mean reasonable and customary charges for the following items of expense:
1.	family assistance benefits, which include reimbursement for the cost of
a.	return transportation for insured dependent children who are under the age of 16, or who are handicapped, if they are left unattended because you or your spouse is hospitalized outside your province of residence. Clarica will arrange the transportation of the dependent child to your home, and if necessary, an escort will be provided to accompany him. The maximum payable for the return transportation is a one-way economy fare for each dependent child.
b.	return transportation for family members, if the hospitalization of a family member prevents them from returning home on the originally scheduled, prepaid transportation, and consequently requires them to purchase new return tickets. The extra cost of each return fare is payable to a maximum of a oneway economy fare, less any amount reimbursed for the unused, return tickets.
c.	visit of one relative, if a family member is hospitalized for more than 7 days while travelling without a relative. This includes meals and accommodation up to a maximum of $150 per day, and round-trip economy transportation, for one relative. These expenses are also covered when it is necessary for a relative to identify a deceased family member before the release of his body.
d.	meals and accommodation up to a maximum of $ 150 per day per family, if a trip is extended because a family member is hospitalized.
The combinedmaximum amount payable for the above family assistance benefits is $5,000 for one travel emergency.
2.	return of a deceased family member. The necessary authorizations will be obtained and arrangements made for the return of the deceased to his province of residence. The maximum amount payable for the preparation and return of the deceased is $5,000. Preparation of the deceased includes expenses for cremation at the place of death. Return of the deceased includes a basic shipping container, but excludes expenses for burial, such as burial caskets and urns.
Extended Health - Out-of-Province Emergency and Travel Assistance Benefit
(bqtops32)	Q1-2
January 1,2001 (40396)
3.	return of a vehicle. If a family member is unable to operate a vehicle (owned or rented) because he is being returned to Canada for medical treatment, Clarica will reimburse the cost of returning this vehicle to his province of residence, or the nearest appropriate rental agency. This benefit is also payable in the event of a family member's death. The maximum amount payable for returning the vehicle is $1,000.
Travel Assistance Services
Out-of-provinceand around-the-worldservices are provided through World Access Canada Inc., a company specializing in emergency medical assistance for travellers. By calling the 24 hour helpline, World Access will be able to provide you and your insured dependants with the following emergency assistance services during the first 60 days of travel:
1.	physician and hospital referrals,
2.	on-going monitoring of medical treatment if a family member is hospitalized,
3.	coordination of transportation arrangements via ground or air ambulance if it is medically necessary to return a family member to Canada or transfer him to another hospital that is equippedto provide the required treatment,
4. payment assistance for hospital/medical expenses,
5.	legal referrals,
6.	a telephone interpretation service,
7.	a message service for you, your family, friends and business associates.
Emergency Payment Assistance
Eligible Hospitat/Medical Expenses OVER $200:
To ensure payment of these expenses,
1.	Call the 24 hour helpline immediately. If you are physically unable to call the helpline yourself, then have a family member, travelling companion or medical personnel call for you. Simply showing your Clarica travel assistance card to a doctor, nurse or hospital personnel will NOT ensure payment of these expenses.
2.	World Access will verify your extended health coverage and provincial health care coverage so payments can be arranged on behalf of you or your insured dependant.
3.	You will be required to sign an authorization form allowing World Access to recover any amounts payable by the provincial health care plan.
4.	For expenses that require a percentage paid by you, or that are not covered under this plan or the provincial health care plan, you must reimburse Clarica for the excess amount of the payment.
5.	If you receive any subsequent bills for these expenses, please forward them to World Access and they will coordinate payments with the provincial health care plan and Clarica.
Extended Health - Out-of-Province Emergency and Travel Assistance Benefit
(bqtops32)	Ql-3
January 1, 2001 (40396)
6.	If you do not call the 24 hour helpline, or if a payment has not been arranged, follow
the steps below even though the expense is over $200.
Eligible Hospital/Medical Expenses UNDER $200:
1.	Pay for the expense as soon as it is incurred.
2.	Submit your claim to the provincial health care plan for consideration.
3.	Submitany unpaid amounts of your claim to Clarica.
24 Hour Helpline
If emergency assistance is needed, a 24 hour helpline is available. Multilingual coordinators at World Access can access a worldwide network of professionals who offer help with medical, legal, and other travel-related emergencies.
The 24 hour helpline can assist you and your insured dependant if you have lost your passport or visa, if you need to find a local legal advisor, or if you require telephone interpretation services. You can also call the helpline and leave important messages for family, friends or business associates; likewise, they can call the helpline and leave messages foryou while you travel. World Access will hold suchmessages for 15 days.
When callingthe 24 hour helpline, please be ready to stateyour Policy No., Certificate No., ID No., and Provincial Medical Insurance Plan/Health Card Number located on your Clarica travel assistance card.
•	CANADA AND USA Call toll free, 1-800-810-0183.
•	ALL OTHER COUNTRIES Call collect, 519-742-6741.
•	FAX: 519-742-8553.
Exclusions and Limitations
No benefit is payable for
1. expenses incurred by you or your insured dependant due to an emergency which occurs more than 60 days after departure from your province of residence,
2.	expenses for the regular treatment of an injury or disease which existed before your departure or your insured dependant's departure from your province of residence,
3.	expenses incurred on a non-emergency or referral basis,
4.	expenses incurred under any of the conditions listed as an Exclusion in the Extended Health Insurance Provision.
If you are covered as a retired employee, you and your insured dependants must return to your province of residence for at least 30 consecutive days before becoming eligible for another 60 days of coverage.
Due to conditions such as war, political unrest, epidemics, and geographic inaccessibility, emergency assistance services may not be available in certain countries. For more information on travelling conditions and the availability of World Access' services in a particular country, please call the appropriate 24 hour helpline.
Extended Health - Out-of-Province Emergency and Travel Assistance Benefit
(bqtops32)	Ql-4
January 1, 2001 (40396)
Neither Clarica nor World Access is responsible for the availability, quality or results of the medical treatment received by you or your insured dependant, or for the failure to obtain medical treatment.
Extended Health - Out-of-Province Emergency and Travel Assistance Benefit
(bqtops32)	Ql-5
January 1,2001 (40396)
Dental Insurance Provision
Benefit
This dental plan is a means to help you to pay for your dental treatment. The services and procedures outlined in this booklet are not a treatment plan and should not determine the treatment and care decisions you and your dentist make. Your actual needs should determine these decisions.
You will be reimbursed when you submit proof to Clarica that you oryour insured dependant has incurred any of the eligible expenses for necessary dental services performed by a dentist. To determine the amount payable, the total eligible expenses claimed are adjusted as follows:
1.	the deductible, which must be satisfied each calendar year, is subtracted,
2.	the reimbursement percentage is applied, and
3.	the maximums specified in the Summary of Insurance are applied.
The intentional omission, misrepresentationor falsification of information relating to any claim constitutes fraud.
Clarica reserves the right to refuse any assignment of benefits under this provision.
Co-ordination of Benefits
If you or your insured dependant are insured under another policy and the other policy does not contain a co-ordination of benefits clause, payment under the other policy must be made first.
If the other policy does contain a co-ordinationof benefits clause, priority of payment v£l be attributed in the following order:
Member
1.	The plan where the person is covered as a member,
2.	If a person is covered under two plans, priority goes to
•	the plan where the member is a full-time employee,
•	the plan where the member is a part-time employee,
•	the plan where the member is a retiree.
Spouse
3.	The plan where the person i s covered a s a member.
Dependent Child
4.	The plan of the parent with the earlier birthdate (month/day) in the calendaryear.
5.	The plan of the parent whose first name begins with the earlier letter in the alphabet, if the parents have the same birthdate.
Dental Insurance Provision (br01v021)	R-I
January 1, 2001 (40396)
6.	In situations where parents are separated/divorced, then the following order applies,
•	the plan of the parent with custody of the dependent child,
•	tire plan of the spouse of the parent with custody of the dependent child,
•	the plan of the parent not having custody of the dependent child,
•	the plan of the spouse of the parent not having custody of the dependent child.
If a dental accident occurs, health plans with dental accident coverage will pay benefits before dental plans.
If you or your insured dependant incurs expenses for the services of a dentist for the treatment of accidental injuries to teeth, payment for these expenses must be made under an extended health insurance policy that includes these expenses as eligible expenses, before payment will be made under this provision.
If priority cannot be established in the above manner, the benefits will be prorated in proportion to the amount that would have been paid under each policy had there been coverage by only that policy.
Following payment under another policy, the amount of benefit payable under this policy will not exceed the total amount of eligible expenses incurred less the amount paid by the other policy.
Claims
A claim must be received by Clarica within 18 months of the date the expense is incurred. For the assessment of a claim, itemized bills, commercial laboratory receipts, reports, records, pre-treatment x-rays, study models, independenttreatment verification or other necessary information may be required.
If your dentist has recommended dental treatment that is expected to cost more than $500, or if your dentisthas recommended dental treatment involving dentures, bridges or crowns, you may have your dentist prepare a pre-treatmentplan that you can submit to Clarica before you start treatment. For any other dental treatment, you can call Clarica at 1 -800-463-3572 to determine if the recommended dental treatment is eligible for payment.
There is a time limit for proceedings against Clarica for payment of a claim. Proceedings must be started within 1 year of Clarica's receipt of the proof of claim.
Alternate Benefit
When deciding what will be paid for a procedure, Clarica may take into account alternate procedures, services, courses of treatment and materials available, and may provide dental benefits based on the least costly procedure, service, course of treatment and materials which will produce a professionally adequate result that is consistent with current, accepted standards of dental practice.
Dental Insurance Provision (br01v021)	R-2
January 1, 2001 (40396)
Exclusions and Limitations
No benefit is payable for
•	expenses for which benefits are payable under a Workers’ CompensationAct, Workplace Safety and Insurance Act or a similar statute,
•	expenses incurred due to intentionally self-inflictedinjuries,
•	expenses incurred due to civil disorder or war, whether or not war was declared,
•	expenses for servicesperformed by a person who is ordinarily resident in the patient’s home or who is closely related to the patient by blood or marriage,
•	expenses for which benefits are payable under a government plan.
Anaesthesia and laboratory procedure charges must be completed in conjunction with other services and the amount payable will be limited to the reimbursement percentage of the services they are being performed in conjunction with. Laboratory charges are also limited to 66 2/3% of the fee for the procedure in the Dental Fee Guide shown on the Summary of Insurance.
At Termination
If you die, your insured dependant’s Dental Insurance Benefits will be continued for 12 months without payment of premiums as long as the Dental Insurance provision remains in force. Your dependants must contactyour Plan Administrator to arrange the extension of coverage.
Dental Insurance Provision (br01v021)	R-3
January 1, 2001 (40396)
Dental Insurance Provision - Diagnostic/Preventive
Benefit
Eligible Expenses
Eligible expenses mean reasonable and customary charges for the following items of expense -
a.	examination and diagnosis
•	oral examination (once every 3 years),
•	recall examination (twice every 12 months),
•	limited periodontal examination (twice every 12 months),
•	specific oral examination (twice every 12 months),
•	emergency oral examination (twice every 12 months),
b. tests and laboratory examinations
•	biopsy of oral tissue,
•	pulp vitality tests,
c.	radiographs
•	complete series (once every 36 months),
•	periapical,
•	bitewing (twice every 12 months),
•	panoramic (once every 36 months),
d.	preventive services
•	dental polishing (twice every 12 months),
•	preventive recall package including a combination of recall examination,
scaling, polishing, and/or topical application of fluoride (twice every 12 months),
•	topical application of fluoride phosphate (twice every 12 months),
•	pit and fissure sealants (for persons under 19 years of age),
•	interproximal discing (for children under 12 years of age),
•	recontouring of teeth for functional reasons,
e.	space maintainers (for children under 12 years of age),
f.	drug injections,
g.	laboratory procedures
h.	oral hygiene instructions (twice every 12 months)
Exclusions
No benefit is payable for
1.	expenses for cosmetic services,
2.	expenses incurred for the treatment of malocclusion or for orthodontic treatment,
Dental Insurance Provision - Diagnostic/Preventive Benefit (bs01v021) S-l
January 1, 2001 (40396)
3.	expenses for replacement of space maintainers which have been lost, stolen or mislaid,
4.	expenses incurred for full mouth reconstmctions, for vertical dimension correction or for correction of temporomandibularjoint dysfunction,
5.	expenses incurred under any of the conditions listed on the Dental Insurance Provision page as an Exclusion or Limitation.
Dental Insurance Provision - Diagnostic/Preventive Benefit (bs01v021)	S-2
January 1, 2001 (40396)
Dental Insurance Provision - Restorative Benefit
Eligible Expenses
Eligible expenses mean reasonable and customary charges for the following items of expense -
a.	examinations
•	oral examinations,
b.	restoration
•	caries control,
•	trauma control,
•	amalgam (bonded amalgam fillings are paid at the non-bonded equivalent),
•	acrylic or composite resin (Primary teeth and permanent anteriors and bicuspids only; permanent molars are paid at the amalgam equivalent),
•	transitional restoration of fractured anterior,
•	prefabricated restorations,
c.	periodontics
•	non surgical services,
•	scaling and root planing (not exceeding 16 time units each year),
d.	denturerepairs (repairs only),
e.	partial denture additions,
f.	relining and rebasing of dentures,
g.	surgical services
•	uncomplicated removals,
•	surgical removals and repositioning,
•	surgical excision,
•	surgical incision,
•	fractures,
•	lacerations,
•	frenectomy,
•	miscellaneous surgical services,
h.	anaesthesia (if performed in conjunction with oral surgery)
•	general anaesthesia,
•	deep sedation,
•	conscious sedation,
i.	laboratory procedures
The addition of teeth to an existing partial denture is an eligible expense if the addition is required to replace one or more teeth removed while you or your insured dependant is insured under this benefit.
Dental Insurance Provision - Restorative Benefit (bs02v021)	S-3
January 1, 2001 (40396)
Exclusions
No benefit is payable for
1.	expenses for cosmetic services,
2.	expenses incurred for the treatment of malocclusion or for orthodontictreatment,
3.	expenses incurred for full mouth reconstructions, for vertical dimension correction or for correction of temporomandibularjoint dysfunction,
4.	expenses for addition of teeth to existing denturesexcept as provided under Eligible Expenses,
5.	expenses incurred under any of the conditions listed on the Dental Insurance Provision page as an Exclusion or Limitation.
Dental Insurance Provision - Restorative Benefit (bs02v021)	S-4
January 1,2001 (40396)
Dental Insurance Provision - Orthodontic Benefit
Option 2 - Enhanced Plan
Eligible Expenses
Eligible expenses mean reasonable and customary charges for the following items of expense-
a.	observation, adjustment
1* oral examination,
• skull and facial bone survey,
•	cephalometric radiographs,
•	hand and wrist radiographs,
•	diagnostic cast,
•	surgical services,
• observation, adjustment,
• repairs, alterations,
• active appliances for tooth guidance or uncomplicated tooth movement,
• retention appliances,
b.	control of oral habits • appliances,
•	adjustments, repairs, maintenance,
c.	comprehensive treatment,
d.	anaesthesia (if performed in conjunction with oral surgery)
• general anaesthesia,
• deep sedation,
• conscious sedation,
e.	laboratory procedures
Exclusions
No benefit is payable for
1.	expenses for replacement of orthodontic appliances which have been lost, stolen or
mislaid,
2.	expenses incurred for full mouth reconstructions, for vertical dimension correction or for correction of temporomandibularjoint dysfunction,
3.	expenses incurred under any of the conditions listed on the Dental Insurance Provision page as an Exclusion or Limitation.
Dental Insurance Provision - Ortho don tic Benefit - Option 2 -Enhanced Plan
(bs03v021)	S-5
January 1, 2001 (40396)
Dental Insurance Provision - Periodontic Benefit
Eligible Expenses
Eligible expenses mean reasonable and customary charges for the following items of expense -
a.	periodontics
•	surgical services,
•	post-surgical treatment,
•	adjunctive procedures,
•	occlusal adjustment/equilibration (not exceeding4 time units every year),
•	appliances (once every 5 years),
•	maintenance adjustments & repairs (once every 6 months),
•	post treatment evaluation,
b.	major surgery
•	alveoloplasty,
•	enucleation of cyst,
•	dislocations,
c.	x-rays
•	temporomandibularjoint x-rays,
d.	anaesthesia (if performed in conjunction with oral surgery)
•	general anaesthesia,
•	deepsedation,
•	conscious sedation,
e.	laboratory procedures
Exclusions
No benefit is payable for
1.	expenses for cosmetic services,
2.	expenses for replacement of periodontal appliances which have been lost, stolen or mislaid,
3.	expenses for full mouth reconstructions, for vertical dimension correction or for correction of temporomandibularjoint dysfunction,
4.	expenses incurred under any of the conditions listed on the Dental Insurance Provision page as an Exclusion or Limitation.
Dental Insurance Provision- Periodontic Benefit (bs04s021)	S-6
January 1, 2001 (40396)
Dental Insurance Provision - Denture Benefit
Option 2 - Enhanced Plan
Eligible Expenses
Eligible expenses mean reasonable and customary charges for the following items of expense -
a.	partial and complete dentures
« complete dentures,
♦	partial dentures,
b.	remakes and adjustments
♦	adjustment to dentures,
♦	remake partial dentures,
c.	examinations
♦	oral examination,
♦	diagnostic casts,
d.	laboratory procedures
Replacement of an existing denture or bridgework with a denture, is an eligible expense if the replacement is required to replace an existing denture which was installed at least 3 years before the replacement, limited to a maximum eligible expense of the value and quality of the original dentureor bridgework.
Exclusions
No benefit is payable for
1.	expenses for cosmetic services,
2.	expenses for initial dentures to replace a tooth or teeth missing before you or your insured dependant became insured under this benefit or to replace a tooth or teeth congenitally missing,
3.	expenses for replacement dentures which have been lost, stolen or mislaid,
4.	expenses for prosthetic devices which are ordered while you or your insured dependant is insured under this benefit but are installed after termination of this benefit,
5.	expenses for replacement of dentures and addition of teeth to existing dentures except as provided under Eligible Expenses,
6.	expenses incurred under any of the conditions listed on the Dental Insurance Provision page as an Exclusion or Limitation.
Dental Insurance Provision - Denture Benefit - Option 2 - Enhanced Plan
(bs05v021)	S-7
January 1, 2001 (40396)
Dental Insurance Provision - Bridge Benefit -
Option 2 - Enhanced Plan
Eligible Expenses
Eligible expenses mean reasonable and customary charges for the following items of expense-
a.	fixed bridgework
•	bridge pontics*,
•	retainers*,
•	other prosthetic services,
b.	repairs and adjustments
•	porcelain repairs,
•	repairs to bridges,
c.	examinations
•	oral examination,
•	diagnostic casts,
d.	anaesthesia (if performed in conjunction with oral surgery)
•	general anaesthesia,
•	deep sedation,
•	conscious sedation,
e.	laboratory procedures
Replacement of an existing denture or bridgework with bridgework is an eligible expense if the replacement is required to replace an existing denture or bridgework which was installed at least 3 years before the replacement, limited to a maximum eligible expense of the value and quality of the original denture or bridgework.
The addition of teeth to existing bridgework is an eligible expense if the addition is required to replace one or more teeth removed while you or your insured dependant is insured under this benefit.
*Coverage for bridge work involvinga permanentmolar(s) is limited to the cost of a full metal pontic/retainer.
Exclusions
No benefit is payable for 1. expenses for cosmetic services,
Dental Insurance Provision - Bridge Benefit-
Option 2 - EnhancedPlan (bs06v021)	S-8
January 1,2001 (40396)
2.	expenses for initial bridgework (including crowns and days forming the retainers) to replace a tooth or teeth missing before you or your insured dependant became insured under this benefit or to replace a tooth or teeth congenitally missing,
3.	expenses for crowns and onlays, placed on a tooth not functionally impaired by incisal angle or cuspal damage,
4.	expenses for prosthetic devices which are ordered while you or your insured dependant is insured under this benefit but are installed after termination of this benefit,
5.	expenses for replacement of bridgework and addition of teeth to existing bridgework except as provided under Eligible Expenses,
6.	expenses for permanent splinting,
7.	expenses for full mouth reconstmctions, for vertical dimension correction or for correction of temporomandibularjoint dysfunction,
8.	expenses incurred under any of the conditions listed on the Dental Insurance Provision page as an Exclusion or Limitation.
Dental Insurance Provision - Bridge Benefit -
Option 2 - EnhancedPlan (bs06v021)	S-9
January 1, 2001 (40396)
Dental Insurance Provision - Crown Benefit -
Option 2 - Enhanced Plan
Eligible Expenses
Eligible expenses mean reasonable and customary charges for the following items of expense -
a.	crowns*, onlays*
•	crowns*,
•	other restorative services,
b.	repairs and adjustments
•	porcelain repairs,
•	recementing crowns,
c.	examinations
•	oral examination,
•	diagnostic casts,
d.	laboratory procedures
Replacementof an existing crown or onlay is an eligible expense if the replacementis required to replace an existing crown or onlay which was installed at least 3 years before the replacement, limited to a maximum eligible expense of the value and quality of the original denture or bridgework.
*Coverage for crowns and onlays placed on permanent molars is limited to the cost of a full metal crown/onlay.
Exclusions
No benefit is payable for
1.	expenses for cosmetic services,
2.	expenses for crowns and onlays, placed on a tooth not functionally impaired by incisal angle or cuspal damage,
3.	expenses for prosthetic devices which are ordered while you or your insured dependant is insured under this benefit but are installed after termination of this benefit,
4.	expenses for replacement of crowns or onlays except as provided under Eligible Expenses,
5.	expenses for permanent splinting,
6.	expenses for full mouth reconstructions, for vertical dimension correction or for correction of temporomandibularjoint dysfunction,
Dental Insurance Provision - Crown Benefit -
Option 2 - EnhancedPlan (bs07v021)	S-10
January 1, 2001 (40396)
7.	expenses incurred under any of the conditions listed on the Dental Insurance Provision page as an Exclusion or Limitation.
Dental Insurance Provision- Crown Benefit-
Option 2-EnhancedPlan(bs07v021)	S-ll
Jammy 1,2001 (40396)
Dental Insurance Provision - Endodontic Benefit
Eligible Expenses
Eligible expenses mean reasonable and customary charges for the following items of expense -
a.	examinations
» oral examinations,
b.	endodontics
o pulpotomy,
O root canal therapy,
•	periapical services,
•	other endodonticprocedures,
o	emergency procedures,
c.	anaesthesia (if performed in conjunction with oral surgery)
•	general anaesthesia,
•	deep sedation,
o conscious sedation,
d.	hemisection,
e.	laboratory procedures
Exclusions
No benefit is payable for
1.	expenses for cosmetic services,
2.	expenses incurred under any of the conditions listed on the Dental Insurance Provision page as an Exclusion or Limitation.
Dental Insurance Provision - Endodontic Benefit (bs08s021)	S-12
January 1,2001 (40396)
ED CLARICA
Clarica is one of the leading financial solutions companies in Canada. We specialize in insurance, investments anti employee benelils. While our name is new, our heritage isn’t, for over 123 years we’ve been helping people make clear financial choices. Our benefits solutions span the years of your file and generations of your family. We can help you build a clear path to a secure financial future.
Do you need more information?
For more information please visit our web site at www.darica.com.
™ Trademark of Clarica Life Insurance Company GRP0566-E-03-00
The Kosa Canada Companf Pension Plan
Your Pension Plan is designed to provide you with a retirement income payable on a monthly basis upon retirement. Each year, you may choose any one of four levels ofpension benefits. The Basic Level is entirely paid for by the Company. There are three optional levels, which allow you to increase your retirement income in steps, by contributing a different percentage of your earnings to the Pension Pian.
Definitions
Your final average earnings are the average of your best 36 consecutive months of earnings in the last 120 months preceding the date of your termination, retirement or death. For purposes ofPension Plan contributions and benefits, your earnings are your earned basic- salary plus overtime, shift premiums and sales incentives over the year.
Your credited service is the number of years and months during which you were a participant in the pension plan (current as well as prior plans). The maximum credited service is 35 years and is cumulative for all service before and after January 1, 1992. This means that, if you have accumulated 20 years of credited service today, you will not be able to accumulate more than 15 years of credited service in the future, even if you are still working for the Company. In addition, any contributions to the plan cease once you have reached the maximum credited service.
The MPE is the maximum pensionable earnings established each year by the Canada Pension Plan. The final average MPE is the average ofthe MPE in the last 36 months immediately preceding your termination, death or retirement date.
Your Spouse generally means the person to whom you are married, or with whom you have been living for at least three years in a conjugal relationship. This is a legal definition - please check with human resources if you are in doubt as to whether or not someone qualifies as your spouse for pension pur poses.
Eligibility
As a full-time permanent employee ofthe Company, you become a member of the Pension Plan on your first day ofwork. Participation in the Pension Plan is compulsory for full-time permanent employees.
Retirement date
Your normal retirement date is the first day oft he month following your 65th birthday. You may also elect to retire early on the first day of any month after reaching age 55.
Considerations when choosing your pension plan level
Certain factors need to be considered when planning your retirement and choosing the pension plan level most appropriate to you. Most people don't really know how much moneytheywill need to maintain their lifestyle and find it difficult to estimate. Here are some points to keep in mind.
At retirement, you stop contributing to government and employer plans, work-related expenses are eliminated and you no longer have a continuing need for retirement savings. Also, if your gross income is lower, so are your income taxes. In addition, an age exemption is available from age 65 and an additional exemption applies to pension income.
The graph below shows the impact oft hese factors. As you can see in this example, a gross retirement income equal to 78% o f pre-retirement gross income is sufficient to achieve full replacement ofdisposable income. The precise level will, ofcourse, depend on your personal rate ofsavings and level of income. Generally, a gross retirement income from all sources o f between 60% and 80% o f pre-retirement gross income is sufficient to achieve full replacement of disposable income.
Retirement Income Goals
Before Retirement During Retirement Salary at retirement: $40,000
=Disposable IncomeJiWorlfcrelated expenses O Savings □ Deductions^
Level of benefit and contributions For service from January 1, 1992
You may select any one of four levels of benefits available; a basic level and three optional levels. You may change your selection annually and your pension at retirement will be based on the selection you made for each year o f participation from January 1, 1992, plus any years o f credited service prior to January 1, 1992. u...i #1
Contributions
You are not required to contribute under Basic Level #1. Benefits under Basic Level #I are entirely provided for by the Plan.
Optional Level#2
Benefit
Your pension benefit is based on:
•	1.4% of your final average earnings up to the final average MPE, plus
•	1.6% of your final average earnings over the final average MPE, multiplied by
•	your years of credited service at Optional Level #2 Contributions
Your contributions under Optional Level #2 are equal to:
■	1.25% of your earnings up to the MPE plus
■	2.5% of your earnings over the MPE
Optional Level#3
Benefit
Your pension benefit is based on:
•	1.6% of your final average earnings up to the final average MPE, plus
•	2% of your final average earnings over the final average MPE, multiplied by
•	your years of credited service at Optional Level #3 Contributions
Your contributions under Optional Level #3 are equal to:
•	2.5% of your earnings up to the MPE plus ■ 5% of your earnings over the MPE
Optional Level#4
Benefit
Your pension benefit is based on:
•	2% of your final average earnings, multiplied by
•	your years of credited service at Optional Level #4
Contributions
Your contributions tinder Optional Level #4 are equal to:
•	5% of your earnings
ForService up to December31, 1991
Your pension benefit is based on:
•	1.2% of your final average earnings up to the final average MPE, plus
•	2% of your final average earnings over the final average MPE, multiplied
by „
•	your years of credited service on December 31, 1991
Any non-contributory past service pension (before January 1, 1992) will be calculated according to the provisions applicable to this service
Example
An employee retires at age 65 with the following years ofcredited service:
BeforeJanuary 1, 1992:	10	years
After January 1, 1992:
Basic Level #1	5	years
Optional Level #2	5	years
Optional Level #4	10	years
Assuming that his final average earnings are $40,000, his salary at retirement is $42,000 and the final average MPE is $36,000, his annual Company pension will be:
Forcredited service before January 1, 1992:
•	1.2% of $36,000: plus
•	2% of ($40,000 - $36,000): multiplied by 10 years
For service at Level #1
•	1.2% of$40,000: multiplied by5 years
For service at Level #2:
$	432
+ 80 $	512
X 10 $ 5,120
$	480
X 5
$ 2,400
■ 1.4% of $36,000: plus
•	1.6% of ($40,000 - $36,000): multiplied by 5 years:
For service at Level #4:
•	2% of$40,000: multiplied by 10 years
Total Company Pension:
(per year), or
44% of salary at retirement
Government benefits (2000 levels):
Canada Pension Plan
Old Age Security
Total Government Benefits
(per year), or 34% of salary at retirement
$	504
+___64
$	568
X 5 $ 2,840
$ 800 X
$ 8,000
$ 18,360
$ 9,155 + 5,039 $14,194
Total Retirement Income:
$32,554
Maximum pension benefits
Your combined pension income from the Company Pension Plan and the government plans cannot exceed 90% of your final year’s earnings. Once you have reached the maximum, your pension contributions under the Company Plan will stop.
Integration of government and Company benefits
Your total retirement income will include a pension payable from the Company Pension Plan, the Canada Pension Plan, Old Age Security and your personal savings. The graph belowshows the percentage of replacement of income that can be achieved by combining the government benefits with the Company Pension at each of t he four levels.
The following example is based on the situation of an employee who would retire at age 65, with $40,000 of earnings. The employee has 10 years of credited service beforeJanuary 1, 1992 and 20 years of credited service in the new plan. The four bars illustrate what percentage of replacement would be achieved had this employee participated at the same level for all of his 20 years of credited service afterjanuary 1, 1992.
Expected Retirement Pension
a>
E
o
CL
at
OS
Basic Level	Optional	Optional
#1	Level #2	Level #3
Optional Level #4
ks/OAS Y CPP I I Service before 1992 I i Service after 1991
Early retirement
Your early retirement pension is calculated in the same manner as your normal retirement pension, but is based on your years of credited service and final average earnings on your early retirement date. However, your pension may be reduced based on your age and Company service when you retire.
if, at early retirement, the sum o fyour age and your years ofCompany service total 85 or more, there will be no reduction in your Company pension. Otherwise, your pension will be reduced by the lesser of
*	3% per year between age 65 and your age at the time of retirement; or
*	4% per year that early retirement precedes the date on which the sum of your age and years of Company service would otherwise have totalled 85.
For example, if you retire at age 61 with 24 years ofCompany service (85 points), there would be no reduction in your earned pension. On the other hand, ifyou retire at age 61 with 17 years of Company service, you are 4 years away from age 65 and 3'/2 years away from 85 points (in 3'/2 years, you would be 64'/2 and have 20'/2 years ofCompany service, for a total of 85 points). Your pension would be reduced by 12%, according to the following calculations:
r
To age 65
4 years x 3% 12%
L
To 85 points
Vh years x 4% 14%
If you leave the Company
The benefit payable if you leave the Company before retirement depends on whether or not your pension is vested. When your pension is vested, you are entitled to receive a pension from the Company at age 65, even ifyou leave the Company before you retire. Your pension is vested after 2 years ofCompany service.
Should you leave the Company before meeting the vesting requirements, you will receive a lump sum payment equal to your accumulated contributions with interest.
Portability of pension payment
Ifyou are under age 55 at the time you leave the Company, you may elect to transferthe value ofyour pension to another pension plan, an insurance company for the purchase of an annuity, or any other retirement investment vehicle approved by law.
Forms of pension payment
Your pension is payable for the rest ofyour life, with a guarantee of at least 60 monthly payments. In other words, should you die before having received GO monthly payments, the remaining monthly payments will be continued to your designated beneficiary.
If you have a spouse at the time of your retirement, the form of pension required by law is ajoint and survivor pension, which provides for 60% of your pension to be continued to your surviving spouse after your death. Your own pension will be reduced to account for this additional benefit.
Other forms of pension are available and will be explained to you when you retire. If you have a spouse and want to choose an optional form of pension payment other than the joint and survivor pension described above, both you and your spouse must sign a waiver form when you retire.
If you die before retirement
Should you die before retirement, your spouse or your beneficiary if you do not have a spouse may be eligible for a death benefit from the Company Pension Plan. This benefit varies according to your age, your Pension Option Level, your credited service and your Company service at the time ofyour death. The approximate amount of this benefit is shown on your personalized enrolment form.
How to enrol	\ j |
Each year, during enrolment period, you will be allowed to change your selection the upcoming year. On your enrolment form, check the box corresponding to the Basic or Optional Level you wish to select for that year.
Each year, to help you select the appropriate option, your estimated pension benefit under each option will be calculated assuming you will select that option and maintain the same option until retirement. This information will be shown on your personalized enrolment form.
Important
This brochure summarizes the major features of your pension plan and is designed as a guide to assist you in understanding the various provisions applicable.
The pension plan provides that any surplus in the pension fund may be used to reduce the Company's contributions or be returned to the Company, subject to regulatory approval.
Should the plan be terminated, the pension plan provides that any surplus funds will be returned to the Company after all plan obligations have been met, subject to regulatory approval.
Every effort has been made to provide accurate information. However, should any questions arise, the final interpretation will be governed by the terms of the official plan documents and current government legislation. In particular, the benefits payable from the plan are subject to the maximum benefit limitations under the Income Tax Act and Regulations.
The Company reserves the right to modify or cancel the pension plan at any time.