CROSSLEY CARPET MILLS LIMITED
(hereinafter called the "Company")
and
NATIONAL AUTOMOBILE, AEROSPACE, TRANSPORTATION AND GENERAL WORKERS UNION OF CANADA (CAW-CANADA) LOCAL 4612
(hereinafter called the "Union")
1
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Description	Article	Page	
PREAMBLE			
Company - Union Relationship	1.01	6	
Labour/Management Meetings	1.02	6	
PURPOSE			
Purpose Defined	2.01	6	
DEFINITIONS			
He/She	3.01	6	
Employee(s)	3.02	6	
Skilled Trades Job Classification	3.03	7	
RECOGNITION			
Members of Unit and Staff Exclusions	4.01	7	
Other Members	4.02	7	
MANAGEMENT RIGHTS			
Management Rights Defined	5.01	7	
Continued Operation	5.02	8	
UNION MEMBERSHIP			
Union Membership Defined	6.01	8	
Union Activity	6.02	9	
Union Check-off		6.03	9
Union Dues Recorded	6.04	9	
Union Meetings	6.05	9	
Union Member Orientation	6.06	9	
Union Agent Visits	6.07	9	
Union Bulletin Boards	6.08	10	
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE			
Grievance Committee Member	7.01	10	
Member Leaves Work Station	7.02	10	
Notice of Discipline	7.03	11	
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE			
Purpose	8.01	11	
Formal Presentation	8.02	11	
Arbitration Notification	8.03	12	
2
Discharge and Suspension Grievances		8.04	12	
Management Grievances			8.05	13
Policy Grievances		8.06	13	
Time Limits		8.07	13	
Grievances Defined		8.08	13	
Grievance Resolution Binding		8.09	13	
ARBITRATION				
Appointment		9.01	14	
Limitations		9.02	14	
Decision Binding		9.03	14	
Expenses		9.04	14	
SENIORITY				
Seniority Date		10.01	15	
Seniority Zone		10.02	15	
Probation Period	10.03	15		
Loss of Seniority		10.04	16	
Employee Address		10.05	16	
Short Layoffs		10.06	16	
Extended Layoffs & Bumping		10.07	17	
Recall Procedure		10.08	18	
Advance Applications for Postings		10.09	19	
Promotion and Job Posting		10.10	19	
Promotion Restrictions		10.11	20	
Seniority Retention		10.12	20	
Staff Vacancies		10.13	21	
Transfer Out of Unit		10.14	21	
Temporary Transfers		10.15	21	
Training Programs		10.16	22	
Permanent Shift Transfers		10.17	22	
Temporary Employees		10.18	22	
LEAVE OF ABSENCE				
Request for Leave		11.01	23	
Leave for Union Business		11.02	23	
Bereavement Leave		11.03	23	
Leave of Absence Jury Duty		11.04	24	
Sick Leave	11.05	24		
3
TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGES, WORKLOADS ANDCLASSIFICATIONS
Technological/Organizational Change	12.01	25
Competitive Position Workloads	12.02	26
Job Classifications	12.03	26
HOURS OF WORK, OVERTIME AND PREMIUMS		
Hours of Work	13.01	27
Breaks	13.02	27
Shift Premiums	13.03	27
Overtime Rates	13.04	28
Overtime Rates for Prime Time	13.05	28
Overtime and Rescheduled Shifts	13.06	28
Overtime Distribution	13.07	29
Overtime Breaks		13.08
Overtime Lunch Allowance	13.09	31
Call-In	13.10	31
Reporting In	13.11	31
HOLIDAYS		
Designated Plant Holidays	14.01	32
Holiday Pay	14.02	32
Qualifying for Holiday Pay	14.03	32
Work on a Holiday	14.04	33
Holiday on Vacation/Day of Rest	14.05	33
VACATIONS		
Vacation Days	15.01	33
Vacation Pay Rates	15.02	33
Vacation Pay Base	15.03	34
Vacation Scheduling	15.04	34
Vacation Work Option	15.05	34
OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY		
Accident Prevention	16.01	35
Injury on Duty	16.02	35
Safety Committees	16.03	35
Right to Refuse Unsafe Work	16.04	35
Union Safety Education	16.05	36
Safety Shoes	16.06	36
31
4
Environmental Measurements	16.07	37
Union Safety Officer	16.08	37
ALLOCATION OF WORK		
Contracting Out	17.01	37
Assignment of Work	17.02	37
STRIKES AND LOCKOUTS		
No Work Stoppage	18.01	38
Strike Discipline	18.02	38
WAGES		
Hourly Wage Rates	19.01	38
Wage Progression	19.02	38
Training Premium	19.03	39
Workers' Compensation/Weekly Indemnity	19.04	39
Stationary Engineers	19.05	39
Shift Leaders	19.06	41
GENERAL		
Recreation Committee	20.01	41
Pension/Life Insurance and Weekly Indemnity	20.02	41
Tool Allowance	20.03	42
DURATION		
Expiration Date	21.01	43
APPENDIX "A" WAGE SCHEDULE		44
LETTERS OF UNDERSTANDING		
LOA 1		49
LOA 2		50
LOA 3		52
LOA 4		53
LOA 5		54
5
ARTICLE 1 - PREAMBLE
1.01	COMPANY - UNION RELATIONSHIP
Parties to this Agreement recognize the common dependence of the Company and its employees upon the welfare of the business, and the importance of maintaining the existing relationship of harmony and mutual respect between them.
1.02	LABOUR/MANAGEMENT MEETINGS
To promote the interest of the Company and to discuss matters of mutual interest which are not proper subjects to be dealt with under the Grievance Procedure, it is agreed to hold Labour/Management Meetings once monthly. The committee shall consist of three (3) representatives of the Union, the make-up of which will be the President, Local Chairperson and one other member and three (3) Management representatives selected by Management. Additional representatives may attend a Labour/Management Meeting by mutual agreement between the Company and the Union.
ARTICLE 2 - PURPOSE
2.01	PURPOSE DEFINED
The purpose of this Agreement is to provide for orderly collective bargaining relations between the Company and its employees covered by this Agreement, through the Union, to secure prompt disposition of grievances which may arise from time to time between the Company and the Union, to define wages and working conditions for the said employees, to eliminate interruption of work during the life of this Agreement and to promote efficient operation of the Company's business, all as set forth in this Agreement.
ARTICLE 3 - DEFINITIONS
3.01	He/She
For the purposes of understanding and clarity, where the masculine pronoun "he" is used in this Agreement, it shall mean and include the feminine pronoun "she". This shall be the case for the masculine form Tradesman in regards to the Skilled Trades.
3.02	EMPLOYEE(S)
"Employee" or "Employees" as used in this Agreement shall mean those persons described in the collective bargaining unit set forth in Clause 4.01.
6
7
3.03
SKILLED TRADES JOB CLASSIFICATION
The term "skilled trades job classification" as used in this Agreement shall mean those job classifications of Steam/Pipefitter, Carpenter, Machinist, Industrial Mechanic, Electrician, Stationary Engineer II, and Chief Stationary Engineer I, as set out in the Collective Agreement under Appendix "A" Maintenance Department. Also included will be future job classifications listed under Appendix "A" Maintenance Department which would require a journeyman status certified and registered with the Nova Scotia Department of Labour. Openings in the Skilled Trades Classification will be posted as stated in Article 10.11 (c).
ARTICLE 4 - RECOGNITION
4.01	MEMBERS OF UNIT AND STAFF EXCLUSIONS
The Company recognizes the Union as the exclusive collective bargaining agent for all its employees employed at its plant at 435 Willow Street in Truro, Nova Scotia, save and except first line supervisors, supervision above rank of first line supervisor, office, technical (unless listed as a job classification in Appendix A), clerical and sales staff, security personnel and/or any other employees excluded by Paragraphs (a) and (b) of subsection (2) of Section 1 of the Trade Union Act.
4.02	OTHER MEMBERS
Any part-time or temporary employees hired by the Company for a period of more than five (5) working days, save those excluded in 4.01, shall be part of the bargaining unit unless excluded by mutual consent, in writing, of the Company and the Union. However, all provisions of this Agreement shall be prorated in a ratio of hours scheduled compared to a regular 8-hour shift where applicable.
ARTICLE 5 - MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
5.01	MANAGEMENT RIGHTS DEFINED
The parties to this Agreement recognize and acknowledge that the management and control of the plant operations and all other Company operations and the direction of the working force are fixed exclusively in the Company and, without restricting the generality of or limiting, impairing or curtailing the foregoing, the Union acknowledges that it is the exclusive function of the Company except as limited by the express provisions of this Agreement to:
(a)	independently make and execute all plans and decisions deemed necessary, in its judgement, to the welfare, advancement, and best interests of the Company;
8
9
(b)	maintain order and efficiency;
(c)	employ, lay off, re-employ, evaluate performance, promote, demote, classify, transfer, suspend and retire employees, and to discipline or discharge any employee for just cause;
(d)	make, enforce and alter, from time to time, rules and regulations to be observed by the employees;
(e)	extend, limit, curtail or cease operations or any part thereof, or to remove any or all operations to another location as circumstances may require, or to close or liquidate any or all operations;
(f)	determine the nature and kind of business conducted by the Company, financial policies, accounting methods and procedures, the products to be manufactured, the quality standards of products, the price to be charged for each product, distribution and sales policies, the engineering and design of products and materials to be used in manufacture, the kinds and locations of plants and their layout, the equipment to be used, the location of new equipment and relocation of old equipment, the control of materials and parts, the methods and techniques of work, the content of jobs, the schedules of production, the size and character of inventories, the number of employees to be employed, those persons to be hired, qualifications to be required of new employees, and methods by which such qualifications are determined, the selection and assignment of staff and supervisory personnel, compensation for services paid to employees not within the unit for which the Union acts as the exclusive bargaining agent, appropriation and expenditures of funds in whatever amount and for whatever purpose, and to determine and exercise all other functions and prerogatives, these remaining solely with the Company.
5.02	CONTINUED OPERATION
In case the Company should determine that any operation be closed, removed or liquidated, the union agrees that operations shall continue without any slowing down or interruption until all stock in process has been completed and other assignments associated with this action have also been completed.
ARTICLE 6 - UNION MEMBERSHIP
6.01	UNION MEMBERSHIP DEFINED
The parties hereto mutually agree that all employees hired after the date of execution of this Agreement must, within one month of employment, become members of the Union for as long
10
as he is employed with the Company.
6.02	UNION ACTIVITY
The Company and the Union agree that there will be no intimidation, discrimination, interference, restraint or coercion exercised or practice by either of them or by any of their representatives or members because of an employee's membership or non-membership in the Union or because of his activity or lack of activity in the Union.
6.03	UNION CHECK-OFF
All new employees in the bargaining unit shall be required, as a condition of employment, to authorize the Company to begin, after their first full week of employment, deducting from their pay an amount equal to the regular Union dues assessed by the Union, and to remit these dues monthly to the Local Union Financial Secretary. The said sums shall be accepted as the regular contributions, of all employees, to the Union.
6.04	UNION DUES RECORDED
Once an employee has authorized the Company to deduct Union dues, such employee shall not be entitled to cancel the authorization so given while this Agreement is in effect.
The Company agrees to indicate on each employee's T4 earnings record the amount of Union dues deducted for the previous year. The Union agrees to advise the Company, each month, of any refund made to any employee.
6.05	UNION MEETINGS
It is agreed that the Union and the employees will not hold meetings at any time on the premises of the Company without permission of Management.
6.06	UNION MEMBER ORIENTATION
The Company agrees that each new employee will have the opportunity during the first week of employment to meet with his Committee Member for Union Orientation as defined in Article 7.01. The new employees’ supervisor will introduce him to his departmental Grievance Committee Member, so that the new member can receive Union orientation. The Company will provide the Union’s Local Chairperson after the end of each week with a list of employees who joined the Company during that week.
6.07	UNION AGENT VISITS
The Company agrees to permit visits by the agent of the Union to contact employee representatives or officers of the Union in connection with provisions of this Agreement, and
11
further agrees that such person will be permitted on the Company property providing prior consent of Management is obtained.
12
6.08
UNION BULLETIN BOARDS
The Company will provide bulletin boards for the purpose of posting Union information, in each department as well as the two (2) locked bulletin boards currently in use. Use of these bulletin boards must be restricted to the following types of information:
(a)	Election notices, names of candidates, and results of Union elections.
(b)	Notices of Union meetings, schools and minutes from Union meetings.
(c)	Any other information authorized by the Company and the Union.
Each item will be provided with a removal date and will remain posted until that date.
ARTICLE 7 - GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
7.01	GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE MEMBER
The Company acknowledges the right of the Union to have employees elected or otherwise appointed Committee Members and, in addition, one Local Chairperson.
All Committee Members and the Local Chairperson shall be regular employees of the Company who are paying union dues. The names and area of representation of each of the Committee Members and the Local Chairperson shall be given to the Company in writing and the Company shall not be required to recognize any such Committee Members or Local Chairperson until it has been so notified.
The number of Committee Members so elected or appointed shall be limited to one Committee Member for each shift in each of the following work areas:
Yarn Mill	Quality Assurance/Product Development
Dyehouse	Finishing
Maintenance	National Service Centre
Tufting	Sampling
Weaving	Winding
7.02	MEMBER LEAVES WORK STATION
The right of Grievance Committee Members to leave their work without loss of pay to investigate or adjust grievances on behalf of an employee in any area they represent is granted on the following conditions:
13
(a)	The Committee Member shall obtain the permission of his Supervisor before leaving work. In cases where a Committee Member represents more than one area, or is required because of an absence or vacancy to represent another area, or to see the Local Chairperson, he shall, in addition, advise the Supervisor of the other area the purpose of his business. Should permission be denied for reasons unsatisfactory to the Committee Member, he may proceed to Step 2 of the Grievance Procedure.
(b)	The time off shall be devoted to the prompt handling of grievances and shall be limited to the time required for attending Grievance Step meetings.
7.03	NOTICE OF DISCIPLINE
(a)	A copy of any recorded verbal warning, written reprimand, suspension or discharge which has been given to any employee will be given to the Steward designated by the Union for that employee's department and also a readable copy will be given to the Local Chairperson. The Union will notify the Company in writing as to whom the designated Steward is for each department and shift.
(b)	Employees have the right to have their Grievance Committee Member or if their Grievance Committee Member is not available the Local Grievance Committee Chairperson present when ever disciplinary action is involved.
ARTICLE 8 - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
8.01	PURPOSE
The parties of this Agreement acknowledge that it is of the utmost importance to deal with complaints and grievances as quickly as possible. Before any discussion on a complaint, it is recognized that an employee has the right to be accompanied by his Grievance Committee Member if he so desires or by another Grievance Committee Member if his member is unavailable. Both parties agree that under no circumstances shall an employee consider that he has a grievance until he has presented his complaint verbally or in writing to his immediate Supervisor and has allowed his Supervisor an opportunity to adjust the complaint.
8.02	FORMAL PRESENTATION
If the complaint is not satisfactorily settled, the formal grievance procedure may be invoked, provided that no more than five (5) employee working days have elapsed since the time of the incident giving rise to the grievance.
14
Step No. 1
A written grievance shall be prepared outlining the alleged violation of the Agreement, in a form
acceptable to the Union and the Company. It shall be signed by the employee filing the grievance and presented by the employee or his Grievance Committee Member to the employee's immediate Supervisor. Within five (5) employee working days of receipt of the alleged grievance, the Supervisor and the Department Superintendent or their nominee, shall call a Step 1 meeting and issue a written decision within the same time limit. The grievor may be accompanied at the Step 1 meeting by his Grievance Committee Member, if he so desires, or by another Committee Member if his member is unavailable. One copy of the decision at Step 1 will be given to the employee, one to his Committee Member and one to the Committee Chairperson. Receipt of the answer by the Local Chairperson, or his designate, shall constitute fulfilment of the time limits of this clause.
Step No. 2
Failing settlement of the grievance at Step 1, the grievance may be taken to Step No. 2. The grievor or the Grievance Committee Local Chairperson shall, within five (5) employee working days of the decision in Step No. 1, notify, in writing, the Director of Human Resources of the intent to take the grievance to Step No. 2. The Company shall call a meeting within ten (10) employee working days after the date the Director of Human Resources or his nominee receives notification of the intent to proceed to Step No. 2. The Step No. 2 grievance meeting shall include the Director of Human Resources or his nominee, and not more than four (4) Management Representatives; the President of the Union; the Chairperson of the Grievance Committee; not more than two (2) members of his Committee; the Grievor, if he wishes to be present; and the Union Representative, if desired by either the Company or the Union. The decision of the Company shall be given in writing within five (5) employee working days after the date of the Step 2 meeting. The Step 2 meeting may be cancelled by mutual consent between the Company and the Union. One copy of the decision at Step 2 will be given to the employee, one to his Committee Member and one to the Committee Chairperson. Receipt of the answer by the Local Chairperson, or his designate, shall constitute fulfillment of the time limits of this clause.
8.03	ARBITRATION NOTIFICATION
If all required steps of the grievance procedure have been followed, and a final settlement of the grievance has not been reached at Step No. 2, then the Union may at any time within forty-five (45) calendar days after the decision is given under Step 2, give written notification of its intent
15
to invoke arbitration as provided in Article 9.
8.04	DISCHARGE AND SUSPENSION GRIEVANCES
If an employee who has completed his probationary period is discharged or suspended without just cause and feels he has been unjustly dealt with, he shall, within seven (7) calendar days after the suspension or discharge, file a written grievance with the Company and the grievance shall be dealt with beginning at Step No. 2 of the grievance procedure.
8.05	MANAGEMENT GRIEVANCES
Any grievance instituted by Management may be referred to the Chairperson of the Grievance Committee within five (5) days of the occurrence of the circumstances giving rise to the grievance. The Union Representative and the Chairperson of the Grievance Committee and/or President of the Local shall meet within five (5) days thereafter with Management to consider the grievance. If final settlement of the grievance is not completed with five (5) days of such meeting, the grievance may be taken to Arbitration as provided in Article 9 at any time within 30 calendar days thereafter, but not later.
8.06	POLICY GRIEVANCES
Any difference arising directly between the Union and the Company as to the interpretation or alleged violation of the provisions of this Agreement may be submitted in writing at Step 2 of the grievance procedure.
8.07	TIME LIMITS
Any and all time limits fixed by the grievance procedure and for filing arbitrations may be extended by mutual agreement in writing between the Company and the Union. The matter in dispute shall be deemed to have been abandoned should the Company or the Union not proceed from one step to another within the time limits specified, or as mutually extended as set out herein.
A grievance will automatically advance from Step No. 1 to Step No. 2 of the Grievance procedure if the Company fails to respond within the time limits specified, or as mutually extended as set out herein.
A grievance will be deemed to have been judged valid if the Company fails to respond in Step No. 2 within the time limits specified, or as mutually extended as set out herein.
8.08	GRIEVANCES DEFINED
16
Only differences concerning the interpretation or alleged violation of the Agreement are proper subjects for utilization of the grievance and arbitration procedures.
8.09	GRIEVANCE RESOLUTION BINDING
All decisions reached by mutual agreement under this grievance procedure shall be final and binding on the Company, the Union, and the employee.
ARTICLE 9 - ARBITRATION
9.01	APPOINTMENT
In any case in which an arbitration shall be required under this Agreement, the Union and the Company shall first attempt to mutually agree upon a single Arbitrator within ten (10) days from the date of the receipt of the notice of Arbitration.
Should the Union and the Company fail to agree on the selection of an Arbitrator, then the appointment of an impartial Arbitrator shall be made by the Minister of Labour for the Province of Nova Scotia. The appointee will act as a single Arbitrator.
9.02	LIMITATIONS
The Arbitrator will not be authorized to make any decision which would alter, modify, or amend any part of this Agreement.
However, the Arbitrator may dispose of any discharge or discipline grievance in the manner which he considers just or equitable.
9.03	DECISION BINDING
The decision of the Arbitrator will be final and binding upon both parties and the employees concerned, and should, normally, be rendered within 30 calendar days from the time the matter was referred to him. This period may be extended by mutual agreement between the Union and the Company.
9.04	EXPENSES
When the Arbitrator deems it advisable to incur other expenses in connection with the grievance, the Arbitrator will obtain the consent of the parties before incurring such expenses.
Expenses which are incurred in connection with the services of the Arbitrator will be borne equally by both parties to this Agreement.
17
Witness fees and allowances shall be paid by the party calling such witnesses.
ARTICLE 10 - SENIORITY
10.01	SENIORITY DATE
After having served the probationary period, an employee will be given a seniority date coinciding with the most recent date such employee first commenced work with the Company under Article 10.03.
10.02	SENIORITY ZONE
(a)	Seniority shall be plant wide. An employee transferred to another department shall retain his original seniority date. Seniority lists will be revised after signing of this Agreement and every three (3) months thereafter. Copies of the lists will be posted on the corresponding departmental bulletin boards and copies will also be given to the Chairperson of the Grievance Committee. If an employee does not challenge his seniority as stated on the seniority list within ten (10) employee working days after the list is posted, then that statement shall be deemed correct. Protests with respect to alleged inaccuracies in the seniority lists shall be initiated at Step 2 of the grievance procedure.
(b)	A plant-wide and a departmental seniority list shall be posted and a copy given to the Chairperson of the grievance Committee within five working days of each layoff and recall. Each laid off employee shall be shown as LO under status or RC if recalled to his job classification or if recalled from outside the plant.
10.03	PROBATION PERIOD
An employee will be deemed to be a probationary employee and he shall have no seniority rights until, he has acquired ninety (90) days of accumulated employment, within the preceding twelve (12) months, at which time he shall become entitled to Company seniority dating from his first most recent date of hire.
18
Any disciplinary action against a probationary employee including, without limitation, warnings, suspensions, demotions and discharge, shall be deemed absolutely to be for just cause. The Company, in its absolute discretion may terminate the employment of any probationary employee at any time with or without notice or pay in lieu of notice. The probationary period may be extended by the duration of any leave of absence granted during that period and may be extended by mutual agreement in writing between the Company and the Union.
A new employee, during his probationary period but no later than upon completion of his probationary period, will be assigned by the Company to a job classification which has not been filled through the job posting procedure. The Company will inform the Local Chairperson of any such assignments, in writing, within five (5) working days.
10.04	LOSS OF SENIORITY
An employee shall lose all seniority when he:
(a)	voluntarily quits his employment with the Company or retires.
(b)	is discharged and is not reinstated through the grievance procedure or arbitration.
(c)	is off work for a continuous period of twenty-four (24) months or the length of the employee's seniority, whichever is shorter, except when a leave of absence has been granted.
(d)	fails to accept recall when given notice of recall, or fails to report to work within five (5) days of accepting recall, unless a reason acceptable to the Company (such as a 2 week notice to a current employer) is given and a leave of absence procedure invoked.
(e)	fails to return to work upon termination of authorized leave of absence, unless a reason acceptable to the Company is given.
(f)	accepts gainful employment while on leave of absence without first obtaining the consent of the Company in writing.
(g)	fails to notify the Company of his absence for a period of three (3) consecutive working days unless his reason for such lack of notification is beyond his control.
10.05	EMPLOYEE ADDRESS
It shall be the duty of each employee to notify the Company promptly of any change in address. Notice required to be given by the company shall be deemed to be given if forwarded to the
19
employee at the last address of which the Company had notice. The Local Chairperson will be notified when the Company has failed to contact an employee for recall or other seniority related items.
10.06	SHORT LAYOFFS
Short layoffs may be invoked as the result of a breakdown of equipment, accident, or other
events outside the control of the Company.
Should a short layoff exceed more than twenty-four (24) hours, an employee affected by such a
layoff may exercise his seniority as set out in the following order.
(a)	By taking the layoff or by displacing the most junior employee within his departmental shift, provided he is capable of performing the required work efficiently, or,
(b)	If the employee is not able to exercise his seniority as stated above he shall;
(i)	Displace the most junior employee in another department on the same shift in a group level (4) job for which he has previously qualified, or a group level (3) job for which he has previously qualified, or a group level (2) job for which he has previously qualified, or;
(ii)	Displace the most junior employee in a group level I job, provided he is capable of performing the required work efficiently.
Once the layoff expires, the employee affected by the layoff must return to his prior job
classification.
10.07	EXTENDED LAYOFFS AND BUMPING
(a)	The Company will give the Union one (1) week notice in writing of its intent to lay off if the layoff is to exceed five (5) consecutive working days. The Company will provide the initial employee being laid off the same one (1) week notice of the layoff in his classification. This does not apply to an employee who is subsequently laid off as a result of having been bumped by a more senior employee.
(b)	Foremost, those employees with seniority who remain must be capable of performing the required work efficiently.
(c)	Employees with seniority shall not be required to leave the plant through the layoff procedure while employees without seniority remain in the plant except where such employee holds a skilled trades job classification.
20
(d)(i) When a layoff occurs, an employee shall exercise his bumping rights as he previously set out. The employee shall have the right to choose the order he will bump into jobs which he previously qualified in through job postings, previous bumps, temporary transfers (umbrella jobs) and recalls. The list of jobs shall be set out in writing within thirty (30) days after the signing of this contract. If an employee gains any job to which he is entitled to bump the employee has the right to rearrange his list, otherwise any new job will become the first possible bump.
(ii) If such employee, because of his seniority, cannot exercise his bumping rights as set out in (i) above, and where such employee is not the most junior employee in the plant, he shall bump the most junior employee working in a group level four (4) or below. An employee exercising this right must be able to show that he will be able to do the job within the qualifying time or be disqualified. An employee if he desires may voluntarily take the layoff by advising the Company in writing within one day of notice of layoff and will be placed on general recall status
Qualifying for positions
To become qualified for a position an employee must satisfactorily complete the qualifying time as set out in job postings or a qualifying time mutually agreed between the Union and the Company. Should an employee be displaced from a job by reason of layoff, bumping or recall, before completion of the qualifying time, the employee will be considered qualified. An employee voluntarily posting off a job before completing the qualifying time will not be considered qualified. Temporary employees must complete the qualifying time before they can be considered qualified.
(e)	The right to bump shall be confined to those employees who have completed their probationary period.
(f)	The onus is on an employee to be aware of his bumping rights and it is agreed that the Company will not be liable to an employee or his Union for an employee failing to exercise his proper bumping rights. However, when requested, the Company will assist an employee in determining his bumping right.
(g)	In the case of a reduction, an employee affected by a layoff may elect to take the layoff if he is in a skilled trades classification or in the case where an employee has a bona fide medical reason and is unable to perform work which is available and such reason is acceptable to the Company.
10.08	RECALL PROCEDURE
21
Recall from a layoff or displacement shall be based on the following:
(a)	For a group 5 or higher job, it is understood that, a vacancy shall be filled first by the most senior displaced or laid off employee who is qualified to do the job. Once the total of laid off positions have been recalled in a job classification, any further vacancies shall be posted.
(b)	For a group 4 or lower job, it is understood that, a vacancy shall be filled first by either the senior displaced employee from that job classification or the most senior employee on layoff from the plant, whoever is most senior. Once the total of laid off positions have been recalled in a job classification, any further vacancies shall be posted.
(c)	A Skilled Trades employee shall remain on layoff and will be recalled only to his skilled trades job classification when it becomes available or will be placed on general recall status if advised in writing at the time of lay off.
(d)	An employee exercising this right must be able to show that he will be able to do the job within the qualifying time or be disqualified.
10.09	ADVANCE APPLICATIONS FOR POSTINGS
(a)	If an employee wishes to be considered for the next vacancy which may occur in any job classification, he may make written application to the Human Resource Department using the prescribed form. The Company will forward a copy to the Union President and will maintain the application on file until the end of each calendar year or until the employee is awarded the job or he asks, in writing, for this application to be removed, whichever occurs first. When a vacancy occurs in the job classification sought, he is assured of consideration along with any others who may have applied by that method or through the normal job posting procedure and will be required to take the job classification if awarded as in 10.10(a).
(b)	Employees who have such a request filed with the Human Resource Department and are awarded the position must return to work within four (4) months from the date of the posting. If the employee cannot return to work or does not return to work within the four month period the position will be awarded to the employee next in line who qualifies.
10.10	PROMOTION AND JOB POSTING
(a)	Posting of Permanent Job Vacancies
22
All present and newly created hourly-rated permanent vacancies within the bargaining unit shall be posted on the Company bulletin board for six (6) calendar days, which shall exclude holidays and plant shutdowns, to give employees with qualifications and seniority ample time to apply in writing. Employees are required to submit separate applications when applying for more than one job posting and must indicate their preference (e.g. first, second, third, etc.). The successful applicant for a posted vacancy will be obliged to take the job when awarded a job posting.
Qualifying experience or skill as stated in the job posting will be reasonable and consistent with requirements of the job classification.
(b)Awarding of Job Postings
The Company shall fill all job vacancies based upon plant seniority only, when awarding job postings to current group level 6 jobs and lower with the exception of Lab Tech. I - Dyehouse and Q.P.C. Tech. I. However, tests may be required for reasons of safety and colour blindness. All tests written and passed within a twenty-four (24) month period shall not have to be rewritten.
(c)	Special Skill Job Vacancies
When requisite qualifications for permanent job vacancies which require special skills, (skilled tradesmen) are not possessed by applicants, then the job vacancy may be filled through outside hiring.
(d)	Transfer to New Job
The Company will be able to temporarily transfer employees or hire new employees to fill a job vacancy that cannot be filled immediately by the successful applicant because of training requirements, leave of absence, medical leaves or vacations in the job classification of the successful applicant. This period shall not exceed twenty-one (21) calendar days, unless mutually agreed upon in writing by the Company and the Union. Wage progression (Article 19.02) shall start when the job is awarded.
(e)	Failing to Qualify
An employee failing to become qualified for the new job will be returned to the job from which he was promoted.
23
(f)	Accommodation of a disability
Before awarding a job posting, the Company and Union will consider the accommodation of any employees who are off work as a result of an occupational disability. When considering such employees the parties will keep in mind the seniority rights of the bargaining unit.
10.11	PROMOTION RESTRICTIONS
Employees within the bargaining unit shall not be restricted from being awarded job postings within the plant.
10.12	SENIORITY RETENTION
(a)	An employee permanently promoted or transferred from one job classification to another shall retain his seniority in his former job classification until he is transferred and commences work in his new job classification.
(b)	An employee who is laid off or displaced from his job classification as a result of being bumped or as a result of a reduction of the work force and is out of his original job classification for a period of two (2) years, shall hold the job classification he is in at the time the two (2) years expire.
10.13	STAFF VACANCIES
It will be Company policy to fill staff vacancies by promotion or transfer of existing Company employees drawn either from outside or within the bargaining unit, subject to management judgement of suitability.
10.14	TRANSFER OUT OF UNIT
(a)	In the event that an employee within the bargaining unit has been promoted or transferred to a position beyond the scope of this Agreement and within one year is returned by Management to a position within the scope of this Agreement, he shall retain all seniority he had previously acquired and shall have added thereto the seniority accumulated while serving outside the bargaining unit. This one year period shall be accumulative. Such an employee shall retain his job rights for this one year period.
(b)	In the event that an employee within the bargaining unit has been promoted or transferred to a position beyond the scope of this Agreement for more than one year but less than two years is returned by Management to a position within the scope of
24
this Agreement, he will be laid off and will be subject to recall based on the seniority accumulated prior to the promotion or transfer.
(c)	The Company shall advise the Union in writing of the name of any employee within the bargaining unit who is promoted or transferred by the Company to a position beyond the scope of this Agreement and the date in which the promotion or transfer occurred.
10.15	TEMPORARY TRANSFERS
(a)	Where a temporary transfer of an employee to a job classification is necessary to effect proper and efficient operation of the plant, the Company will give preference by seniority to employees within the shift and department affected to fill the immediate job vacancy and subsequent job vacancies.
Temporary transfers will be made by giving the senior employee occupying a job classification within the departmental shift concerned preference provided he makes his desire known to his Supervisor and that he has the knowledge and ability to do the job. If a senior employee does not indicate preference to be temporarily transferred, the Company will temporarily transfer the least senior employee from within the departmental shift who has the knowledge and ability to do the job.
(b)	The employee transferred shall receive the higher of his current rate or the rate of the job to which he is transferred, as outlined in the wage schedule. He shall be considered to be in his regular job classification for the purpose of overtime distribution during such time as he fills the temporary job. The temporary transferred employee shall be asked for overtime in the temporary transferred job after everyone in the classification is considered. Upon completion of such temporary transfer period, the transferred employee shall be returned to his previous job.
(c)	Temporary transfers shall be limited to a maximum of seven (7) calendar days except where such transfer is caused by a leave of absence, a medical leave, vacation or training, in which case the temporary transfer may continue for the duration of the absence.
(d)	The Company shall provide the Union with a list of all temporarily transferred employees if the temporary transfer is to exceed seven (7) calendar days.
10.16	TRAINING PROGRAMS
When training programs for job classifications within the bargaining unit are implemented,
postings and selection shall be on the basis as provided in 10.10.
25
10.17	PERMANENT SHIFT TRANSFERS
(a)	For all employees transferred from one shift to another the transfer shall be based on seniority within the classification affected. Forty-eight (48) hours notice shall be required before any shift transfer takes place.
(b)	Employees will be able to temporarily trade shifts for up to thirty (30) days providing they have permission from their immediate supervisor. Provisions of Article 10.17 (a) shall not apply.
(c)	If there is more than one shift rotation working (i.e. 12 and 8 hour rotating shifts) in any job classification, the senior employees in the job classification affected shall have the right to choose which shift rotation they will work on.
10.18	TEMPORARY EMPLOYEES
It is understood that the Company will first temporarily recall an employee who is laid off from the plant to fill in for temporary increases in production requirements, vacations and other absences before hiring a temporary employee. When the Company deems it necessary, they may hire and train temporary employees for Group Level five (5) or lower to fill in for temporary increases in production requirements, vacations or other absences. These employees will pay Union Dues and be under the rules and regulations that apply to all employees but will not have seniority rights or rights to grievance procedures that normally are given to employees who have completed their probationary periods. Temporary employees will be limited to working 130 calendar days in any one calendar year. A temporary employee who exceeds this period will be considered to be a permanent employee. The seniority date for such an employee will be back-dated 90 days from the point at which he exceeded his 130 days. Thus, the traditional 90 day probationary period will be recognized for seniority purposes. All employees who are hired as temporary employees will be told that their employment is conditional and will have to sign a form to this effect. The Local Chairperson will be given a copy of these forms and a list of temporary employees which will include their starting dates and the date at which they would have exceeded their 130 days. If at anytime the temporary employee is changed to a probationary employee Article 10.03 will apply for Company seniority.
The rate of pay for temporary employees will be twenty-five cents ($0.25) per hour below the rate for Group 1 jobs.
The Company will provide the Local Chairperson with a list, weekly, containing the names of all temporary employees and the jobs they have worked at during the previous week, as well as a list of temporary employees who have moved to probationary employee status.
26
ARTICLE 11 - LEAVE OF ABSENCE
11.01	REQUEST FOR LEAVE
The Company may grant leave of absence without pay to employees for acceptable reasons and durations.
Duplicate copies of any employee request to supervision for leave of absence will be filed simultaneously with the Personnel Department and the Union Local Chairperson and will be considered jointly by the employee's Supervisor and the Director of Human Resources to ensure fair and consistent consideration of all requests.
11.02	LEAVE FOR UNION BUSINESS
The Company will allow leave of absence without pay to a maximum of one (1) representative from each department, as listed in Article 7.01, chosen by the Union, to participate in union activities. The Plant Manager will respond at least 48 hours before the event. Such request for leave will not be unreasonably withheld.
11.03	BEREAVEMENT LEAVE
(a)	An employee who suffers a death in his immediate family shall, upon request, be granted a leave of absence beginning at the time of the death five (5) consecutive working days to make arrangements for and to attend the funeral. The employee shall be compensated at his regular rate of pay for each day of his normal work schedule without premiums. Immediate family is defined as Spouse, Father, Mother, Sister, Brother, Child, Father-in-Law and Mother-in-Law.
(b)	An employee who suffers a death in his extended family shall, upon request, be granted a leave of absence beginning at the time of the death three (3) consecutive working days to make arrangements for and to attend the funeral. The employee shall be compensated at his regular rate of pay for each day of his normal work schedule without premiums. Extended family is defined as Legal Guardian or Grandchild. Bereavement leave shall also be granted in the event of death of an individual not fitting the relationships outlined above, but being domicile in the same unit residence as the employee at the time of death.
(c)	Employees are ensured of one day without loss of pay to attend the funeral of a Grandparent, Grandparent of Spouse, Sister-in-Law or Brother-in-Law.
(d)	Application for Bereavement Leave under this provision of the Agreement must be completed in writing using the prescribed Company form.
27
(e)	Common-Law status of a Spouse or Same Sex Spouse will be recognized only if the employee has advised the Company in writing of such Common-Law status prior to bereavement.
(f)	If an employee is on vacation, bereavement leave will start on the day of the death, and remaining vacation will be re-scheduled without loss of pay to the employee. Bereavement leave will be extended as set out in (a) only.
11.04	LEAVE OF ABSENCE JURY DUTY
An employee who is summoned for jury duty and is required to lose time from work as a result, shall be paid for actual time lost with a maximum of one day's pay at the straight time rate of his position for each day lost, less the amount allowed him for jury duty for each such day excluding any allowances paid by the court for meals, lodging, transportation, etc.
11.05	SICK LEAVE
Each employee will be granted two days of paid sick leave during the calendar year. Unused sick leave entitlement will be paid out at the end of the calendar year. Sick leave will be paid at the regular rate of pay without premiums, times the hours of the shift scheduled at the time of illness. Employees must have completed their probationary period before qualifying for this leave. Employees who terminate employment will be credited for one paid sick day for each period of six months of employment completed within the calendar year and the final payment of wages will be adjusted according to sick days already used.
ARTICLE 12 - TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGES, WORKLOADS AND CLASSIFICATIONS
12.01	TECHNOLOGICAL/ORGANIZATIONAL CHANGE
Where a technological or organizational, also covering operational, change will result in the termination of one or more permanent jobs, the Company will engage in meaningful discussion with the Union with the object of arriving at the best solution to the problem of worker displacement. The following principles will provide guidelines for such consultations:
(a)	Eight (8) weeks notice of proposed changes will be given to the Union.
28
(b)	Flexibility will be practice by both parties.
(c)	Placement of as many employees as practical within Company operations will be attempted.
(d)	Natural attrition will be utilized to minimize worker displacement to the maximum degree the Company finds practical.
(e)	If placement within the Company is not practical, government agencies will be consulted to assist in outside placement.
(f)	Final notice, if necessary, will be given as follows:
(i)	one week's notice in writing to the employee if his seniority is more than three months and less than two years;
(ii)	two weeks' notice in writing to the employee if his seniority is two years or more, but less than five years;
(iii)	four weeks' notice in writing to the employee if his seniority is five years or more, but less than ten years; and,
(iv)	eight weeks' notice in writing if the employee's seniority is ten years or more.
Alternatively, the Company may give notice in writing and pay the employee an amount equal to the pay to which he would have been entitled for work that would have been performed by him, at his regular rate, in a normal non-overtime work week for the appropriate period of notice as defined above.
12.02	COMPETITIVE POSITION AND WORKLOADS
The parties hereto recognize that, for the purpose of providing more efficient operations of the plant and thereby keeping the Company in a competitive position in the industry, it is necessary from time to time to:
(a)	install new and modern machinery;
(b)	develop new machines;
29
(c)	develop improvements for machinery;
(d)	develop new methods, manufacturing processes and techniques;
(e)	make changes in materials processed or quality or manufacturing standards;
(f)	create new jobs and revise or combine existing jobs and establish wage rates;
(g)	make time and motion studies and adjust workloads on jobs, and;
(h)	change from day rates to incentive rates, or vice versa.
Consistent with the principle of a fair day's work for a fair day's pay and consistent with the employee's welfare in regard to safety, health and the effect of sustained effort, the Company may establish and maintain, and the Union agrees to co-operate in establishing and maintaining full workloads.
12.03	JOB CLASSIFICATIONS
The Company will continue the established practice of determining relative wage rates. Before finalizing new or revised job descriptions covered by this Agreement, the Company agrees to discuss with the Union President or his nominee, the Local Chairperson and a Steward of the Department affected, the circumstances giving rise to the change.
The Union may request the Company to re-evaluate a job classification rate. Within ninety (90) days of a written request outlining reasons for the request, the Company will advise the Union of the result of the re-evaluation. A job classification rate will not be reduced during the term of the Agreement as a result of a re-evaluation of a job classification requested by the Union.
ARTICLE 13 - HOURS OF WORK, OVERTIME AND PREMIUMS
13.01 HOURS OF WORK
(a)	Eight (8) hours of work will constitute a work day and forty hours a work week for 5 day, 8 hour day work and 5 day, 8 hour shift work operations.
(b)	Twelve (12) hours of work will constitute a work day and 40 hours per week averaged
30
over a one year period will constitute a work week for the 12 hour, 7 day work schedule.
(c)	Eight (8) hours of work will constitute a work day and 40 hours per week averaged over a one year period will constitute a work week for an 8 hour, 7 day work schedule. This 8 hour, 7 day work schedule will only be implemented during the term of this Agreement by mutual agreement between the Company and the Union.
(d)	12 hour weekend shifts will be paid an extra 4 hours pay at their regular rate if scheduled to work a Saturday or Sunday. The weekend shift workers will work one other day during the week, which will be picked by mutual agreement between the individual employees and their supervisor.
Nothing herein, however, shall be interpreted to guarantee minimum hours of work or limit the number of hours of work that the Company may require.
13.02	BREAKS
Breaks will be provided as follows:
(a)	Eight (8) hour shift work - one paid thirty (30) minute lunch break and two paid fifteen (15) minute rest breaks.
(b)	Twelve (12) hour shift work - one paid thirty (30) minute lunch break and four (4) paid fifteen (15) minute rest breaks, or, one paid thirty (30) minute lunch break and two (2) paid thirty (30) minute rest breaks by mutual agreement between the Supervisor and an employee.
13.03	SHIFT PREMIUMS
(a)	8 HOUR SHIFTS
Eight (8) hour shift workers will be paid a thirty-two cents ($0.32) per hour shift premium for the hours worked between 4:00 p.m. and 12:00 midnight and a forty cents ($0.40) per hour shift premium for the hours worked between 12:00 midnight and 8:00 a.m.
(b)	12 HOUR SHIFTS
Twelve (12) hour shift workers will be paid a fifty cents ($0.50) per hour shift premium for the hours worked between 8:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m.
31
13.04	OVERTIME RATES
(a)	For all authorized work in excess of the regularly scheduled eight hour shifts, an employee will be paid at the rate of one and one half (1 E2) times his regular hourly rate.
(b)	For all authorized work in excess of 12 hours per day, an employee will be paid at the rate of two (2) times his regular hourly rate.
(c)	For production employees on 12 hr. 7-day shift schedule who normally work 84 hours every two weeks, the extra 4 hours will be paid at overtime rate. On the week of 36 hours all hours will be paid at regular rate; on the week of 48 hours, 44 hours will be paid at regular rate and 4 hours at the rate of time and one half. It is agreed that absence during the 48 hour week will not eliminate the overtime hours so long as a minimum of 12 hours are worked in that week.
13.05	OVERTIME RATES FOR PRIME TIME
(a)	For the 5-day, 8-hour day work and 5-day, 8-hour shift schedule, the employee will be paid at the rate of two (2) times his regular hourly rate for all authorized work between the hours of 4:00 p.m. Saturday and 4:00 p.m. Sunday.
(b)	For the 7-day, 8-hour or 12-hour day and the 7-day, 8-hour or 12-hour shift schedule, the employee will be paid at one and one half (1 E2) times his regular hourly rate for work performed on his designated Saturday and two (2) times his regular hourly rate for work performed on his designated Sunday. A first day off will be considered a Saturday. Second and subsequent days off the schedule will be considered to be Sunday.
13.06	OVERTIME AND RESCHEDULED SHIFTS
Overtime rate will not be paid for make-up or re-scheduling of shifts to suit the convenience of an employee or group of employees.
13.07	OVERTIME DISTRIBUTION
Overtime work in excess of the shift schedule in effect at any one time is intended to be on a voluntary basis provided adequate response is received. Overtime will be allocated on an equal
32
opportunity basis and will be distributed as evenly as possible to those employees in the job classification for which overtime work is required, who are willing to work overtime, and who are qualified for the work required. Overtime will be offered to employees outside of the job classification within the department only after all reasonable attempts to obtain sufficient response within the job classification have been exhausted. After all reasonable attempts to obtain sufficient response from both inside and outside the department have been exhausted, the Company reserves the right to schedule the most junior qualified employee in the classification to do the overtime.
It is understood that the distribution of overtime does not assume that each employee sharing overtime will at any given time have received the same number of overtime credits, but merely expresses a fundamental practice to keep such overtime as nearly in balance from time to time as is fair and reasonable under the circumstances.
When the Company deems it necessary to have work performed on overtime the following procedure will be used:
(a)	Overtime opportunities will be first offered to employees in the job classification who normally perform the work, commencing with the employee who has on record the least amount of overtime credits. An employee shall be recorded on the overtime list within his job classification as having worked the overtime when he has worked the overtime; when he is absent from work on his shift when overtime would have been offered to him; when he has been offered voluntary overtime and declines; when he is absent and, as a result of his absence, overtime is required, except when he is on vacation including the weekend (or designated weekend) continuous to the vacation, unless availability is made known beforehand; and when the Company is unable to contact the employee after reasonable attempts to do so.
(b)	After all reasonable attempts to obtain sufficient response by employees from within the job classification are exhausted, overtime opportunities will be offered to employees outside the job classification, within the department. Overtime worked by an employee outside his job classification shall be recorded with the overtime credits on the overtime list as having worked within his job classification. If such an employee declines an overtime opportunity outside his job classification, no overtime credits will be recorded.
(c)	If the balance of overtime hours among employees who normally share overtime work is not properly maintained because of an improper allocation and a grievance is filed, and as a result, an employee is found not to have had his fair share of overtime, the off-balance condition shall be identified and preference given to the aggrieved employee over the other employees involved as soon as is reasonably possible until a fair balance in the overtime distribution is re-established.
33
(d)	The Company agrees to post overtime lists showing overtime credits of employees. These lists will be revised each week and total credits shall be carried forward from week to week during the calendar year. Each department within the plant will be consistent in the manner for which overtime credits are recorded.
(e)	Overtime credits will be recorded on the overtime list as follows: For example, eight (8) hours worked at time and one half will be recorded as twelve (12) credits and eight (8) hours worked at double time will be recorded as sixteen (16) credits.
(f)	An employee who is transferred from one job classification to another job classification through a job posting, bumping or recall , will, upon transfer, be credited with the average of the overtime credits in the job classification within the departmental shift to which he is transferred, except when there is only one employee per shift in that classification in which case he will be averaged with those in the classification.
(g)	An employee who is absent from work for one week or more, except when he is on vacation, will upon return to work, be credited with the average of the overtime credits in the job classification within the departmental shift to which he returns except when there is only one employee per shift in that classification in which case he will be averaged with those in the classification.
(h)	An employee on temporary transfer under Article 10.16 (b) shall be considered in his regular job classification for the purpose of overtime distribution.
(I) When overtime credits are equal for all employees in a job classification the most
senior employee will be asked first. This procedure will continue until all employees in the job classification have established overtime credits, at which time Article 13.07
(a)	will prevail.
(j)	Probationary or Temporary employees will be asked for overtime only after all employees in the job classification with seniority have been asked.
(k)	The difference in overtime credits should not exceed forty (40) hours.
(l)	If an employee is asked to change shifts, he shall be paid overtime if not off work for 24 hours before reporting for work on his new shift. This is not in effect if caused by a layoff as stated in Article 10.07.
34
13.08	OVERTIME BREAKS
An employee who has worked an eight (8) hour shift and is required to work overtime shall be allowed a ten (10) minute break before the start of his overtime work. If he is scheduled to work two hours or more of overtime, he shall be allowed a twenty (20) minute break prior to beginning his overtime work.
Subsequent breaks will follow the pattern of the department in which he is working.
13.09	OVERTIME LUNCH ALLOWANCE
An employee who is required to work three and one half hours to eight hours of overtime as an extension of his shift will be paid a lunch allowance of six dollars ($6.00). If an employee is required to work a further three and one half hours, he will be entitled to an additional six dollars ($6.00) lunch allowance. The employee's foreman or another member of supervision will make arrangements for the payment to the employee.
13.10	CALL IN
(a)	If an emergency arises whereby an employee is recalled without prior notice to come to work after his scheduled shift, he will be paid a minimum of four (4) hours pay at his regular rate or for the actual time worked prior to the commencement of his next shift, at the applicable overtime rate, whichever is greater. At the time the employee is called, he will be advised of the nature of the problem and/or the approximate amount of time he will be required to work. The employee will only be required to perform the work for which he was called except when it is apparent and he is so advised, before he leaves the plant, that additional emergency work is required.
(b)	An employee, while on emergency call-in, will receive a six dollar ($6.00) lunch allowance for each consecutive four (4) hours worked until the commencement of his next scheduled shift. An employee while on emergency call-in, who works less than four (4) hours however is required to work past one (1) hour immediately prior to the commencement of his next scheduled shift will receive a six dollar ($6.00) lunch allowance.
(c)	If an employee is called in after midnight, the call in pay will be six (6) hours pay at his regular rate or for the actual time worked prior to the commencement of his next shift, at the applicable overtime rate, whichever is greater.
13.11	REPORTING IN
35
Any employee who comes to work for which he was scheduled without having been advised in advance that his services were not required shall receive four (4) hours pay at his regular rate for his scheduled eight (8) hour shift or six (6) hours pay at his regular rate for his scheduled twelve (12) hour shift, whichever the case may be, provided he does any job available that the Company may request. This, however, does not apply in the case where lack of available work is due to causes beyond the control of the Company, as, for example, machinery breakdown, fire, flood, power failure or other like causes, or if the failure to receive notice was caused by the employee's absence on the previous day.
ARTICLE 14 - HOLIDAYS
14.01	DESIGNATED PLANT HOLIDAYS
The following will be paid plant holidays:
New Year's Day Victoria Day Labour Day Remembrance Day Boxing Day
Unless mutually agreed otherwise between the parties herein, two additional paid holidays between Boxing Day and New Year's Day will be selected by the Company following a discussion with the Union.
If an employee has worked six months in the previous twelve (12) months he/she will receive one floater on their return from layoff. If the employee has worked ten or more months in the previous 12 months they will receive two floaters on their return from layoff.
14.02	HOLIDAY PAY
All regular employees shall receive holiday pay at their regular hourly rate for the number of hours in their normal work day.
For employees on a 12 hour, 7 day shift schedule, the holiday pay will be 12 hours when the holidays fall on a regularly scheduled day. For employees who are off on their regular days off, attempts will be made to allocate a day prior to or immediately after the holiday as a designated holiday. Employees working on their designated holiday will be paid according to the provisions in Article 14.04. Holidays will begin at 8:00 a.m. on the day of the holiday and end at 8:00 a.m. on the day after the holiday to accommodate the present 12 hour, 7 day shift schedule.
14.03	QUALIFYING FOR HOLIDAY PAY
Good Friday Canada Day Thanksgiving Day Christmas Day
36
In order to be entitled to payment for a plant holiday, an employee must have worked his scheduled full working day immediately preceding the holiday and his scheduled full working day immediately following the holiday unless a reason acceptable to the Company is given. The use of a sick day before or after a plant holiday is a reasonable excuse.
14.04	WORK ON A HOLIDAY
If an employee is required to work on one of the above-mentioned plant holidays, he shall receive payment at the rate of time and one-half his regular hourly rate for the hours actually worked by him in addition to receiving his holiday pay.
14.05	HOLIDAY ON VACATION/DAY OF REST
When any of the said holidays falls on a day of an employee's vacation or on an employee's day off, the Company may pay the employee the holiday pay to which he may be entitled or give the employee a day off in lieu thereof, at a time mutually convenient to the Company and the employee or majority of employees when more than one employee is affected.
ARTICLE 15 - VACATIONS
15.01	VACATION DAYS
Length of employee vacation in a given year shall be in accordance with the following schedule:
(a)	Seniority of less than one (1) year as of May 31 = the equivalent of one 8-hour day per month of service, up to a maximum of two (2) weeks.
(b)	Seniority	in excess of one (1) year as of May 31 = two (2) weeks.
(c)	Seniority	in excess of five (5) years as of May 31 = three (3) weeks.
(d)	Seniority	in excess of twelve (12) years as of May 31 = four (4) weeks.
(e)	Seniority	in excess of twenty-two (22) years as of May 31 = five (5)	weeks.
15.02	VACATION PAY RATES
Annual vacation pay shall be in accordance with the following schedule:
(a) Up to five years seniority at May 31 = 4% of total earnings.
37
(b)	Five years seniority up to twelve years at May 31 = 6% of total earnings.
(c)	Twelve years seniority up to twenty-two years at May 31 = 8% of total earnings.
(d)	Twenty-two years or more at May 31 = 10% of total earnings.
15.03	VACATION PAY BASE
(a)	Vacation pay shall be based on earned wages including vacation pay for the previous fifty-two (52) week period closest to May 31 provided the employee had worked during that fifty-two (52) week period.
(b)	An employee will receive vacation pay for approved absence for reason of illness or accident, calculated at the appropriate percentage stated in Article 15.02 times the pay that the employee would have received during the period of absence at the straight time rate without premiums.
(c)	An employee absent for more than four (4) months between June 1 and May 31 will be entitled to his regular vacation pay in percentage of actual earnings only, except when the absence is due to Pregnancy Leave.
15.04	VACATION SCHEDULING
Employees with three weeks or less of vacation will take their vacation during the annual plant shutdown. Exceptions will be made in the case of employees required for maintenance and those requested to work in other areas on a voluntary basis. In these cases, preference will be given to employees with the greatest seniority in scheduling vacations outside the annual shutdown period, provided the employee advised his intent at least one month before the requested vacation date.
For the employees with a fourth or fifth week of vacation, the fourth or fifth week may be taken at a time mutually satisfactory to the Company and the employee. Employees with a fourth or fifth week of vacation, may be permitted to take any portion of the fourth or fifth week in periods of not less than one half day durations provided the vacation time taken is at a time mutually satisfactory to the Company and the employee.
Where an annual plant shutdown is not anticipated, vacation scheduling will be based on a selection process which recognizes seniority as a pre-determining factor in vacation preference. Such application of seniority rights in choosing vacation dates will be exercised prior to the second Friday in April. Any request after this date will not be allowed if it will displace any
38
junior employee who has already fixed a vacation date.
15.05	VACATION/WORK OPTION
For employees having more than two weeks of vacation entitlement, the Company agrees to allow employees to work a third, fourth and/or fifth week of vacation at their regular rates of pay, including overtime and premiums. The employees must declare their intention to sell their third, fourth and/or fifth weeks of vacation and be paid on the pay period when the employee has his next vacation week scheduled.
ARTICLE 16 - OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY
16.01	ACCIDENT PREVENTION
(a)	Both parties hereto will co-operate to the fullest extent reasonably possible toward the prevention of accidents and the promotion of safety and health of the employees of the Company. It is hereby agreed that it shall be the duty of the employees to make use of all reasonable protective devices and equipment made available by the Company.
(b)	All new employees shall receive 2 days of orientation and Health and Safety training before commencing work on the plant floor. All current employees shall receive health and safety training yearly. All education and training shall be given by employees, members of management or an outside contractor approved by the JOHSC. The JOHSC shall determine the requirements for all safety related training.
16.02	INJURY ON DUTY
An employee who is injured on duty, should such an injury necessitate the employee leaving the plant for medical treatment during his authorized work period, shall be paid the wages to which he would have been entitled, had he worked the entire authorized work period, provided the injury necessitates that the employee remain off work for the remainder of that shift. Should the injury result in the employee being off for more than one shift, the Company shall pay for any loss of wages incurred from the time of the injury until Worker’s Compensation payments begin.
16.03	SAFETY COMMITTEES
The Company and the Union agree to establish a Joint Occupational Health & Safety Committee, departmental safety committees and shift representatives. The JOHSC shall consist of six members elected or appointed by the Union and six members elected or appointed by the Company. The Human Resources Manager and the Union Safety Chair shall be
39
permanent members and Co-Chairs of the JOHSC. The departmental committees shall consist of the department head and the shift safety representatives. The shift safety representatives will be appointed by the Union or elected by each shift in each department. The JOHSC shall meet the first Wednesday of every month or more often if needed. The departmental meetings with the department head shall take place every month. There shall be a 'A hour shift safety talk for each shift in each department within the plant. These meetings shall be run by the shift supervisor and the shift safety representative and shall be held on a monthly basis. The purpose of the Committees shall be to point out hazardous conditions and actions, recommend corrective action, and monitor and regulate if necessary the speed with which such action is implemented.
16.04	RIGHT TO REFUSE UNSAFE WORK
(a)	If an employee has reasonable cause to believe that a machine, device or thing is unsafe to use or operate, or that a work situation is unsafe, because such operation is likely to endanger himself or another employee, the employee may refuse to use or operate the machine, device or thing, or continue to work in that situation.
(b)	The Company agrees that there shall be no discriminatory action taken against an employee who has made such a refusal.
(c)	When such a refusal is made by an employee, an investigation shall be performed by the immediate supervisor and the shift safety representative; and at least one (1) member of the JOHSC if necessary. The employee shall accompany any investigation. If the matter is not remedied to the employee’s satisfaction then an investigation shall be done by the JOHSC. If the results are still not satisfactory then the employee may call the Department of Labour for an investigation. Until the matter is resolved the employee shall be temporarily reassigned other work.
Reports of any and all investigations shall be given to the Human Resources Manager with copies going to the Union Safety Officer, Local Chairperson, JOHSC, and the employee.
(d)	The supervisor may instruct another employee to perform the task provided he is made aware of the first employee’s refusal and the reason for the refusal. The second employee may also exercise his right to refuse unsafe work..
(e)	The foregoing shall not be construed as to supersede or invalidate the provisions of the Nova Scotia Occupational Health and Safety Act. 1996, c.7.
40
16.05 UNION SAFETY EDUCATION
The Company may grant leave of absence without pay to employees identified by the Union Executive for the purpose of attending safety education courses sponsored by the Union. Such leave may be granted provided that the number of employees released at any one time does not exceed ten (10) and provided that reasonable notice is given, and also provided that there will be no adverse effect on operating requirements and the duration of requests and the frequency of requests are reasonable.
16.06	SAFETY SHOES
The Company agrees to reimburse employees, with valid receipts up to seventy-five dollars ($75.00) per pair, per employee, per year towards the purchase of safety shoes that meet Company specifications and that are purchased from a recognized industrial Safety Shoe supplier or manufacturer and which are regularly worn by such employee. The Union will cooperate with the Company in assuring that employees follow the policy regarding the wearing of safety shoes.
An employee must have been in the employ of the Company for at least six months before he qualifies for a safety shoe reimbursement.
The safety shoe reimbursement shall be $75.00 per year or $150.00 for two years time since the date of the last safety shoe purchase.
16.07	ENVIRONMENTAL MEASUREMENTS
The Joint Occupational Health & Safety Committee will be responsible for determining the need to take environmental measurements. The Company will designate three members and the Union will appoint or elect three members to form a committee to monitor such testing. Whenever a test or measurement is conducted, it will be done by at least one member of the Company Committee and one member of the Union Committee. Testing equipment acquired at a reasonable cost to the Company as well as any procedural methods or standards must be certified by either Canadian or United States Governmental authorities.
16.8	UNION SAFETY OFFICER
The Company agrees to guarantee that the Union Safety Co-Chair will receive a minimum of eight (8) hours per week, at his/her hourly rate to address health and safety issues. Further, should the Company decide to staff a full-time Occupational Health and Safety Co-ordinator position a panel of representatives from the JOHSC, from the Union and Company, will be appointed to oversee the selection process and make recommendations.
41
ARTICLE 17 - ALLOCATION OF WORK
17.01	CONTRACTING OUT
The Company has in the past and may continue at its discretion to allocate certain work to outside suppliers from time to time. These management decisions will only be taken after due consideration to the efficient operation of the business and the personal welfare and job security of any employee affected.
Except in the case of an emergency, the Company will give the Union advance notice in writing of any work within the plant performed under this Contracting Out clause.
17.02	ASSIGNMENT OF WORK
The Company agrees that members of Supervision and Staff shall not perform work which is assigned to members of the bargaining unit. Exceptions may be made in situations dealing with items such as emergencies, safety, training, and development work. Development work, shall be defined as experimental work which when completed will become part of the existing bargaining unit work.
ARTICLE 18 - STRIKES AND LOCKOUTS
18.01	NO WORK STOPPAGE
In view of the orderly procedures established by this Agreement for the settling of disputes and handling of grievances, the Union agrees that, during the life of this Agreement, there will be no strike, picketing, slow-down or stoppage of work, either complete or partial, and the Company agrees that there will be no lockout. In the event of an illegal strike, picketing, slowdown or stoppage of work, the Union will actively assist the Company in quickly ending such action.
18.02	STRIKE DISCIPLINE
The Company shall have the right to discipline employees who take part in or instigate any strike, picketing, stoppage or slow-down contrary to the provisions of the Trade Union Act or this Agreement.
ARTICLE 19 - WAGES
19.01	HOURLY WAGE RATES
All current wage rates listed in Appendix A were increased by thirty-six ($0.36) cents effective July 1, 2000 and payable retroactively from date of signing for actual earnings excluding
42
premiums during that period. Effective July 1, 2001, all current wage rates listed in Appendix
A were increased by forty ($0.40) cents. Effective July 1, 2002, all wages listed in Appendix A
were increased by forty-four ($0.44) cents.
19.02	WAGE PROGRESSION
(a)	An employee promoted from one job classification to another job classification within the same labour group will retain the same pay throughout the training period of the new job.
(b)	An employee promoted from one job classification to another job classification immediately above his present labour group will continue at the rate of pay of his former job for a period of four (4) weeks and then progress to the standard rate for his new job. However, an employee who has previously held the new job classification through the job posting procedure shall receive the standard rate for the new job upon transfer provided the employee is qualified to perform the job without training.
(c)	An employee promoted to a job classification which is in a labour group more than one labour group above his present job classification, will continue at his present rate for four (4) weeks, then progress to the rate of pay of the next labour group. He will then be paid at the rate of that group for a period of four (4) weeks and for any other subsequent group rate for a period of four (4) weeks until he reaches his new group rate. For an employee promoted from a group 1 to a group 3 job would, for example, be paid the group 1 rate for four (4) weeks, then the group 2 rate for four (4) weeks and then the standard rate of his new job. However, an employee who has previously held the new job classification through the job posting procedure shall receive the standard rate for the new job upon transfer provided the employee is qualified to perform the job without training.
(d)	An employee who, through the job posting procedure, takes a job classification that is in a labour group lower than his present labour group, will be paid the appropriate rate of the new job immediately upon commencing work in the position.
(e)	A probationary employee will be paid $0.25 below the group 1 rate for the length of his probationary period. Progression after that date will be the same as it would be for a permanent employee if the new employee holds a job above group 1. This will not be the case if the new employee holds a license that is required for his job.
Employees such as skilled trades who are newly hired will be paid $0.25 below their appropriate rate for the length of their probationary period.
19.03	TRAINING PREMIUM
43
(a)	A training premium of forty-five cents ($0.45) per hour for a minimum of four hours will be paid to any employee selected to train a new employee for all hours during which the employee is directly engaged in the initial training activity approved by supervision.
(b)	Training premiums are payable only to employees specifically requested to train and are not payable in cases where training is part of the normal job requirement.
19.04	WORKERS' COMPENSATION / WEEKLY INDEMNITY
For employees on Workers' Compensation or Weekly Indemnity, the Company agrees to advance if requested by the employee, and provided the administrative procedure is followed, benefits equivalent to those that would be received from the Workers' Compensation Board, or under the Weekly Indemnity Plan, until the benefits are received by the employee at which time the Company will be reimbursed by the employee. It is also understood that if the claim is not approved by the insurer the employee will reimburse the Company for any advances or overpayments.
In order to qualify for this benefit, an employee must have at least two (2) years of seniority.
19.05	STATIONARY ENGINEERS
It is understood that the operators of the Boilers and related equipment may work abnormal schedules.
For the "Winter Schedule" coverage is for the entire seven days in a week. Currently, operators work an average of 42 hours per week in a 4 week cycle. For this schedule, overtime will be paid at the rate of one and one half (1 E2) times the regular hourly rate for the hours worked over an average of 40 per week during the cycle.
For the "Summer Schedule" which is normally a five day 40 hour schedule, overtime will be as per Article 13.04 and 13.05.
44
19.06 SHIFT LEADERS
(a)	Employees designated by the Company to work as a Shift Leader in charge of a departmental shift, in the temporary absence of a supervisor, shall be paid a premium of two dollars ($2.00) per hour above his regular rate. The designated shift leaders will be treated as temporarily transferred under Article 10.15 (c).
(b)	It is understood that the Company shall have the right to make the selection based on ability giving due regard to seniority of employees who have expressed an interest. The Company may from time to time designate alternate Shift Leaders in order to give other interested employees an opportunity to demonstrate their ability.
(c)	Except for the first (initial) full shift the Shift Leader shall not do any bargaining unit work. For part shifts or part overtime shifts the Shift Leader will do his own work plus the Shift Leader work. At no time will the Shift Leader be involved in discipline.
(d)	All employees who are required to do shift leader work according to their job description will be trained in all aspects of the shift leaders job.
ARTICLE 20 - GENERAL
20.01	RECREATION COMMITTEE
The Union will elect or appoint and the Company will recognize two members to serve on the Recreation Committee.
20.02	PENSION / BENEFITS
The Company agrees to keep the pension and benefits in force for the life of this Agreement. Those programs are detailed in booklets which are available to all employees. Each employee will be advised of the annual pension contribution and the amount of pension contributions accumulated to date at the end of each year.
The weekly indemnity plan will be registered with the Employment Insurance Commission in accordance with the Unemployment Insurance Act and any reduction paid in accordance with this Act will belong entirely to the Company in view of the other advantages awarded.
45
20.03 TOOL ALLOWANCE
The Company agrees to provide a tool allowance for tradesmen and fixers on a prorated yearly bases provided such tools are purchased through the Company stores and are tools required for their job. Tools may be purchased as needed during the year and the value, at Company cost, will be deducted from the following allowances:
Mechanics	$160
Electricians	$110
Pipe Fitters	$110
Technicians/Technical Specialist	$160
Fixers/Textile Fixers/Fixer Lead hand	$ 90
Asst. Overhaulers/Mechanic II/Maintenance Helper	$ 90
Carpenters	$110
Overhaulers	$110
General Repairer	$ 75
It is understood that an employee in the above classifications will own his tools and if said employee ceases employment, then the tools are his to remove.
The unused portion of the tool allowance will be paid out at the end of each calendar year.
46
ARTICLE 21 - DURATION
21.01 EXPIRATION DATE
This Agreement comes into effect on July 1, 2000 and shall remain in effect until June 30, 2003 at which time it shall automatically be subject to renewal year to year thereafter unless either party requests the negotiations of a new Agreement by giving written notice to the other party not less than sixty (60) calendar days and not more than ninety (90) calendar days prior to the expiration date of this Agreement or any renewal date thereafter.
In Witness Whereof, the parties have caused this Agreement to be executed this day of March, 2001.
FOR THE COMPANY	FOR THE UNTON
D. Reid
G. Murray
E. Rowley
B. MacDonald
P. Shapleigh
T. Bennicke
K. Cochrane
D. Cock
D. McClellan
L. Turnbull
A.W. Burden
47
G. Ash
WAGE SCHEDULE APPENDIX "A"
DEPARTMENT: YARN MILL
Job Classification		Group Level	July 1/00	July 1/01	July 1/02
Cleaner		1	10.74	11.14	11.58
Reeler		1	10.74	11.14	11.58
Service Operator - Yarn Yarn Operator	1	3	10.74 11.14 11.15	11.58 11.55	11.99
Process Technician		4	11.38	11.78	12.22
Senior Reeler		5	11.62	12.02	12.46
Lift Truck Operator I		6	11.84	12.24	12.68
Q.C./Forklift Operator		6	11.84	12.24	12.68
Yarn Inventory Controller		6	11.84	12.24	12.68
Yarn Mill Leader		7	12.11	12.51	12.95
Fixer		7	12.11	12.51	12.95
Assistant Overhauler		8	12.99	13.39	13.83
Textile Fixer		8	13.71	14.11	14.55
Overhauler		8	14.13	14.53	14.97
Technician - Yarn		8	16.68	17.08	17.52
DEPARTMENT: CARPET MANUFACTURING
Job Classification	Group Level	July 1/00	July 1/01	July 1/02
Creeler	1	10.74	11.14	11.58
Winder	1	10.74	11.14	11.58
48
Service Operator	2	10.96	11.36	11.80
Burler	2	10.96	11.36	11.80
Loom Service Operator	2	10.96	11.36	11.80
Creeler - Weaving	2	10.96	11.36	11.80
Tufting Operator	3	11.15	11.55	11.99
Yarn Inspector	3	11.15	11.55	11.99
Winding Service Op. Examiner	3	11.15	11.55	11.99
Burling Leader	4	11.38	11.78	12.22
Senior Creeler - Tufting	5	11.62	12.02	12.46
Beamer/Tufter Operator	5	11.62	12.02	12.46
Weaver	5	11.62	12.02	12.46
Job Classification	Group Level	July 1/00	July 1/01	July1/02
Weaver - Velvet	5	11.62	12.02	12.46
Beamer Operator - Weaving	5	11.62	12.02	12.46
Beamer Operator - Velvet	5	11.62	12.02	12.46
Yarn Inventory Controller	6	11.84	12.24	12.68
Weaver I	6	11.84	12.24	12.68
Senior Weaver	6	11.84	12.24	12.68
Senior Beamer/Tufter Operator	6	11.84	12.24	12.68
Lift Truck Operator I	6	11.84	12.24	12.68
General Repairer	6	11.84	12.24	12.68
Sample Machine Operator	6	11.84	12.24	12.68
Operator I - Velvet	7	12.11	12.51	12.95
Fixer - Weaving	7	12.11	12.51	12.95
Fixer - Tufting	7	12.11	12.51	12.95
P.D. Sample Developer	7	12.11	12.51	12.95
Winding Leader	8	12.36	12.76	13.20
Off Loom Inspector	8	13.19	13.59	14.03
Assistant Overhauler	8	13.71	14.11	14.55
Textile Fixer - Tufting	8	13.71	14.11	14.55
Textile Fixer - Weaving	8	13.71	14.11	14.55
Overhauler	8	14.13	14.53	14.97
Trainer	8	14.42	14.82	15.26
Fixer - Lead hand	8	16.08	16.48	16.
Fixer - Lead Hand Velvet	8	16.08	16.48	16.92
Technician - Weaving	8	16.33	16.73	17.17
Technician - Tufting	8	16.33	16.73	17.17
Technical Specialist - Weaving	8	20.67	21.07	21.51
49
WAGE SCHEDULE APPENDIX "A"
DEPARTMENT: DYEHOUSE
Job Classification	Group Level	July 1/00	July 1/01	July 1/02
Service Operator - Dyehouse	1	10.74	11.14	11.58
Dye Machine Operator	4	11.38	11.78	12.22
Dye Weigher	6	11.84	12.24	12.68
Lab Tech. II - Dyehouse	6	11.84	12.24	12.68
Lift Truck Operator I	6	11.84	12.24	12.68
Senior Dye Weigher	7	12.11	12.51	12.95
Lab Tech I - Dyehouse	8	13.12	13.52	13.96
DEPARTMENT: FINISHING				
Service Operator - Finishing	2	10.96	11.36	11.80
Mat Finisher	2	10.96	11.36	11.80
Latex Floor Operator	3	11.15	11.55	11.99
Utility Operator	4	11.38	11.78	12.22
Mender	5	11.62	12.02	12.46
Lift/Wrap Operator	5	11.62	12.02	12.46
Relief Operator	5	11.62	12.02	12.46
Mender/Inspector	6	11.84	12.24	12.68
Shear Operator	6	11.84	12.24	12.68
Final Inspector	6	11.84	12.24	12.68
50
Latex Operator II	6	11.84	12.24	12.68
Dryer Operator I	6	11.84	12.24	12.68
Compound Operator	7	12.11	12.51	12.95
Backcoat Operator	7	12.11	12.51	12.95
Latex Operator I	7	12.11	12.51	12.95
Dryer Leader	8	13.12	13.52	13.96
51
WAGE SCHEDULE
APPENDIX "A"
DEPARTMENT: NATIONAL SERVICE CENTRE
Job Classification	Group Level	July 1/00	July 1/01	July 1/02
Service Operator	1	10.74	11.14	11.58
Wrapper Operator	2	10.96	11.36	11.80
Small Parcel Coordinator	4	11.38	11.78	12.22
Computer/Filing Clerk	5	11.62	12.02	12.46
Finish Cut Handler	6	11.84	12.24	12.68
Lift Truck Operator I	6	11.84	12.24	12.68
Receiver	7	12.11	12.51	12.95
Shipper/Receiver	8	13.33	13.73	14.17
DEPARTMENT: SAMPLE				
Sample Operator	3	11.15	11.55	11.99
Material Handler II	4	11.38	11.78	12.22
Iventory Operator/Rug Finisher	5	11.62	12.02	12.46
Computer/Filing Clerk	5	11.62	12.02	12.46
Sample Dept. Coordinator	7	12.11	12.51	12.95
DEPARTMENT: QUALITY ASSURANCE/PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT				
Yarn Waste Operator	2	10.96	11.36	11.80
Hand Sample Maker	3	11.15	11.55	11.99
Process Technician	5	11.62	12.02	12.46
Q.P.C. Tech. I	5	11.62	12.02	12.46
P.D. Technician	5	11.62	12.02	12.46
52
WAGE SCHEDULE
APPENDIX "A"
DEPARTMENT: MAINTENANCE
Group
Job Classification	Level
General Labourer	1
Janitor	1
Maintenance Helper	4
Fixer	7
Stores Attendant	8
Stationary Eng. IV	8
Textile Fixer	8
Stationary Eng. III	8
Steam/Pipefitter	8
Carpenter	8
Machinist	8
Industrial Mechanic	8
Electrician	8
Stationary Eng. II	8
Chief Stationary Eng. I	8
July 1/00	July 1/01	July 1/02
10.74	11.14	11.58
10.74	11.14	11.58
11.38	11.78	12.22
12.11	12.51	12.95
12.33	12.73	13.17
13.50	13.90	14.34
13.71	14.11	14.55
14.61	15.01	15.45
16.18	16.58	17.02
16.18	16.58	17.02
16.18	16.58	17.02
16.18	16.58	17.02
16.18	16.58	17.02
16.18	16.58	17.02
19.86	20.26	20.70
NOTE:	Stationary Engineer with 2nd Class Refrigeration - +$1.00.
53
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
LOA1
Local 4612 CAW
Date
Dear Sirs:
This will confirm the Agreement reached during negotiations that employees in the job classification of Fixer shall, upon obtaining and presenting a qualification certificate of second year Millwright, be reclassified to Textile Fixer job classification and paid the applicable job rate.
Yours very truly,
Crossley Carpet Mills Limited Director, Human Resources
54
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
LOA2
Local 4612	February 2, 2001
CAW
Dear Sirs
1.	Benefit Plan
During 2001, employees shall continue to pay the current premium rate of $48.10 for family coverage (or $18.38 for single coverage), even though the rate should have been readjusted to $59.16 (or $22.76) under the previous premium cost sharing arrangement. Future premium increases in subsequent years shall be cost shared 50/50 and shall be added to the current rate of $48.10 (or $18.38). Reductions in premium rates shall only be cost shared 50/50 if the premiums decrease below the level they were at when the $48.10 (or $18.38) premium rate was originally set.
2.	Paid Education Leave
The Company will remit to the national office of the National Automobile, Aerospace, Transportation and General Workers Union of Canada (CAW-Canada), by cheque, equal sums of $1,500 on April 1, 2001, March 1, 2002 and March 1, 2003.
3.	Collective Agreement Negotiations
This will confirm the agreement reached during negotiations that to avoid delay in reaching the next Collective Agreement, negotiations will commence 60 days before the present contract expires.
4.	Pension Committee
55
The Company and the Union agree to reactivate the Pension Committee during the duration of this agreement. The Pension Committee shall meet within sixty (60) days of ratification of the collective agreement. Members of this committee agree to serve on the committee for a term consistent with the duration of the collective agreement. Meetings shall be held at least once every six (6) months. Appropriate training and information shall be provided to the committee members.
5.	Benefits Program
This will confirm agreement reached in negotiations that the Benefits Programs are compulsory unless an employee already has health and dental insurance coverage.
6.	Wage Replacement for Union Leave
The Company shall continue the wages and benefits for employees on authorized Union leave and the Company shall invoice the Local Union once a month for repayment.
Representing the Company	Representing the Union
D. Reid	G. Murray
E. Rowley	B. MacDonald
P. Shapleigh	T. Bennicke
K. Cochrane	D. Cock
D. McClellan	A. W. Burden
	L. Turnbull
	G. Ash
56
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
LOA 3
Local 4612	January 4, 2001
CAW
Dear Sirs:
This will confirm the parties’ understanding that the existing CAW policies covering Lockout procedure and No Hand in Dyes Policy will be acknowledged and used during the term of this collective agreement. If you concur please sign in the space provided below
Yours very truly,
Crossley Carpet Mills Ltd. Director, Human Resources
57
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
LOA 4
Local 4612	February 2, 2001
CAW
Dear Sirs:
The Company agrees that during the term of this collective agreement there will be no part-time assignments established.
The present part-time janitorial position will be eliminated and a permanent full-time janitorial position will be posted in accordance with the collective agreement. This will be accomplished within 30 days of the signing of this agreement.
Yours truly,
Crossley Carpet Mills Ltd. Director, Human Resources
58
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
	LOA5
Local 4612 CAW Dear Sirs:	March 9, 2001
This will confirm the agreement reached during negotiations that employees who have, in the past, been selected to be trained for jobs, and/or trained and qualified for jobs, under the Cross Training arrangement in the previous collective agreement, will be awarded such jobs, if they become available, without the Company having recourse to the Job Posting procedure.
This letter applies to the following employees:
Leigh Turnbull - Shipper/Receiver	Dave Andrews - Assistant Inspector
Darrell Clyke - Lift/Wrap Operator	Valerie Watson - Small Parcel Co-ordinator
Irene McKay - Latex Operator II	Dave Johnstone - Latex Operator I
59
Bernie Totten - Backcoat Operator Gary McNutt - Final Inspector Wanda Hill - Shear Operator Mike Roode - Lift Truck Operator I
Yours truly,
Kevin Monk - P.D. Technician Robert MacLeod - Final Inspector Roger McClellan - Relief Operator
Crossley Carpet Mills Ltd. Director Human Resources
60