July 1,2012-June 30,2015
TANDUS FLOORING LIMITED Formerly Known As CROSSLEY CARPET MILLS LIMITED
(hereinafter called the "Company”)
and
NATIONAL AUTOMOBILE, AEROSPACE, TRANSPORTATION AND GENERAL WORKERS UNION OF CANADA (CAW-CANADA) LOCAL 4612
(hereinafter called the "Union")
Page left blank Page blanche
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Description	Article	Page
PREAMBLE		
Company - Union Relationship	1.01	7
Labour/Management Meetings	1.02	7
Workplace Rights	1.03	7
PURPOSE		
Purpose Defined	2.01	9
DEFINITIONS		
He/She	3.01	9
Employee(s)	3.02	9
Skilled Trades Job Classification	3.03	9
Baseline Numbers	3.04	10
Umbrella Job	3.05	10
Emergency	3.06	10
Layoff	3.07	10
RECOGNITION		
Members of Unit and Staff Exclusions	4.01	10
Other Members	4.02	10
MANAGEMENT RIGHTS		
Management Rights Defined	5.01	11
Continued Operation	5.02	12
UNION MEMBERSHIP		
Union Membership Defined	6.01	12
Union Activity	6.02	12
Union Check-off	6.03	12
Union Dues Recorded	6.04	13
Union Meetings	6.05	13
Union Member Orientation	6.06	13
Union Agent Visits	6.07	13
Union Bulletin Boards	6.08	13
Union Bargaining Committee	6.09	14
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE		
Grievance Committee Member	7.01	14
Member Leaves Work Station	7.02	14
Notice of Discipline	7.03	15
3
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE	
Purpose	8.01
Grievance Procedure	8.02
Arbitration Notification	8.03
Discharge and Suspension Grievances	8.04
Management Grievances	8.05
Policy Grievances	8.06
Time Limits	8.07
Grievances Defined	8.08
Grievance Resolution Binding	8.09
ARBITRATION	
Appointment	9.01
Limitations	9.02
Decision Binding	9.03
Expenses	9.04
SENIORITY	
Seniority Date	10.01
Seniority Zone	10.02
Probation Period	10.03
Loss of Seniority	10.04
Employee Address	10.05
Short Layoffs	10.06
Extended Layoffs & Bumping	10.07
Recall Procedure	10.08
Advance Applications for Postings	10.09
Promotion and Job Posting	10.10
Promotion Restrictions	10.11
Seniority Retention	10.12
Transfer Out of Unit	10.13
Temporary Transfers	10.14
Training Programs	10.15
Permanent Shift Transfers	10.16
Student Employees	10.17
LEAVE OF ABSENCE	
Request for Leave	11.01
Leave for Union Business	11.02
Bereavement Leave	11.03
Leave of Absence Jury Duty	11.04
Sick Leave	11.05
Compassionate Care Leave	11.06
15
15
16
17
17
17
17
17
18
18
18
18
18
19
19
19
20
20
20
21
23
23
24
25
25
26
26
28
29
29
30
30
30
31
31
31
4
TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGES, WORKLOADS AND CLASSIFICATIONS
Technological/Organizational Change	12.01	32
Competitive Position Workloads	12.02	33
Job Classifications	12.03	33
HOURS OF WORK, OVERTIME AND PREMIUMS		
Hours of Work	13.01	34
Maximum Hours of Work / Minimum Hours of Rest	13.02	34
Breaks	13.03	35
Shift Premiums	13.04	36
Overtime Rates	13.05	36
Overtime Rates for Prime Time	13.06	37
Overtime and Rescheduled Shifts	13.07	38
Overtime Distribution	13.08	38
Overtime Breaks	13.09	40
Overtime Lunch Allowance	13.10	41
Call-In	13.11	41
Reporting In	13.12	41
HOLIDAYS		
Designated Plant Holidays	14.01	42
Holiday Pay	14.02	42
Qualifying for Holiday Pay	14.03	42
Work on a Holiday	14.04	43
Holiday on Vacation/Day of Rest	14.05	43
VACATIONS		
Vacation Days	15.01	43
Vacation Pay Rates	15.02	43
Vacation Pay Base	15.03	44
Vacation Scheduling	15.04	44
Vacation Work Option	15.05	45
OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY		
Accident Prevention	16.01	45
Injury on Duty	16.02	46
Safety Committees	16.03	46
Safety Assurance	16.04	47
Right to Refuse Unsafe Work	16.05	47
Return to Work	16.06	48
Union Safety Education	16.07	49
Safety Shoes	16.08	49
Environmental Measurements	16.09	49
Union Safety Officer	16.10	49
Lockout Procedure/No Hand in Die	16.11	50
5
ALLOCATION OF WORK
Contracting Out	17.01	50
Assignment of Work	17.02	50
STRIKES AND LOCKOUTS		
No Work Stoppage	18.01	51
Strike Discipline	18.02	51
WAGES		
Hourly Wage Rates	19.01	51
Wage Progression	19.02	51
Training Premium	19.03	52
Workers' Compensation/Weekly Indemnity	19.04	52
Stationary Engineers	19.05	53
Shift Leaders	19.06	53
Matemity/Parental Leave	19.07	54
GENERAL		
Pension/Benefits	20.01	54
Tool Allowance	20.02	55
Clothing Allowance	20.03	55
License Renewals	20.04	55
DURATION		
Expiration Date	21.01	56
APPENDIX "A" WAGE SCHEDULE		57
APPENDIX “B” SPECIALIZED CLASSIFICATION TRAINING		60
APPENDIX “C” APPRENTICESHIP TRAINING		64
LETTERS OF UNDERSTANDING		
LOA 1		68
LOA 2		69
LOA 3		71
LOA 4		72
LOA 5		75
LOA 6		76
LOA 7		77
LOA 8		80
LOA 9		81
6
ARTICLE 1 - PREAMBLE
1.01	COMPANY - UNION RELATIONSHIP
Parties to this Agreement recognize the common dependence of the Company and its employees upon the welfare of the business, and the importance of maintaining the existing relationship of harmony and mutual respect between them.
1.02	LABOUR/MANAGEMENT MEETINGS
To promote the interest of the Company and to discuss matters of mutual interest which are not proper subjects to be dealt with under the Grievance Procedure, it is agreed to hold Labour/Management Meetings once monthly. The Company will give an update on projected capital plans including purchase and installation of new equipment, significant plant layout changes and building repairs at this meeting. The committee shall consist of three (3) representatives of the Union, the make-up of which will be the President, Local Chairperson and one other member and three (3) Management representatives selected by Management. Additional representatives may attend a Labour/Management Meeting by mutual agreement between the Company and the Union.
1.03	WORKPLACE RIGHTS
The Company recognizes and accepts its responsibility to prevent harassment and illegal discrimination it its workplace, as well as its obligations under the Human Rights Act of the Province of Nova Scotia.
The Company and the Union are committed to providing a harassment-free workplace and expect all employees to treat others with courtesy and consideration and to discourage harassment.
Harassment is defined as a "course of vexatious comment or conduct that is known or ought reasonably be known to be unwelcome".
Prevention and reporting of harassment situations is the responsibility of all employees. Any person who believes that an employee has experienced, or is experiencing, workplace harassment, or retaliation for having brought forward a complaint, is encouraged to notify a Workplace Rights Committee Member.
Harassment may take many forms: verbal, physical or visual. It may involve a threat or an implied threat or be perceived as a condition of employment. The following examples could be considered as harassment but are not meant to cover all potential incidents:
7
-	Unwelcome remarks, jokes, innuendos, gestures or taunting about a person's body, disability, attire or gender, racial or ethnic backgrounds, colour, place of birth, sexual orientation, citizenship or ancestry;
-	Practical jokes, pushing, shoving, etc., which cause awkwardness or embarrassment;
-	Posting or circulation of offensive photos or visual materials;
-	Refusal to work or converse with an employee because of their racial background or gender, etc;
-	Unwanted physical conduct such as touching, patting, pinching, etc;
-	Condescension or paternalism which undermines self-respect;
-	Backlash or retaliation for the lodging of a complaint or participation in an investigation
The Company and Union agree to maintain the established Workplace Rights Policy and Committee. The Committee will consist of equal number of members from the Company and Union, with there being two (2) co-chairs, one from Management and one from the Union. Training will be provided to all members within six (6) months of assuming a position on the Committee by the Committee. The Committee will be run by the terms of reference as set out in the policy and by the committee. A list of members and their contact information will be posted and maintained in each department. Employees are encouraged to seek out a member of the Committee if they feel they have a complaint.
Any harassment complaints shall first be addressed by the Workplace Rights Committee. At any point in the complaint procedures, the complainant has the right to make a complaint with the Nova Scotia Human Rights Commission. Such complaints are investigated by the Nova Scotia Human Rights Commission.
All time limits for filing a grievance shall be suspended until the outcome of the Workplace Rights Committee investigation. At the conclusion of the investigation, the complaint if unresolved may be considered as a grievance for the purposes of the grievance procedure for resolution.
In the event that an employee files a harassment complaint simultaneously with the Human Rights Commission, and the complaint to the Commission is based on the same subject matter as the complaint to the Committee, then the Committee will hold its complaint in abeyance pending the outcome of the other forum.
The Workplace Rights Policy will be reviewed with all new employees within the probationary period. The Workplace Rights Committee will make recommendations to Management when refresher training is deemed to be needed.
8
ARTICLE 2 - PURPOSE
2.01	PURPOSE DEFINED
The purpose of this Agreement is to provide for orderly collective bargaining relations between the Company and its employees covered by this Agreement, through the Union, to secure prompt disposition of grievances which may arise from time to time between the Company and the Union, to define wages and working conditions for the said employees, to eliminate interruption of work during the life of this Agreement and to promote efficient operation of the Company's business, all as set forth in this Agreement.
ARTICLE 3 - DEFINITIONS
3.01	He/She
For the purposes of understanding and clarity, where the masculine pronoun "he" is used in this Agreement, it shall mean and include the feminine pronoun "she". This shall be the case for the masculine form Tradesman in regards to the Skilled Trades.
3.02	EMPLOYEE(S)
"Employee" or "Employees" as used in this Agreement shall mean those persons described in the collective bargaining unit set forth in Clause 4.01.
3.03	SKILLED TRADES JOB CLASSIFICATION
The term "skilled trades job classification" as used in this Agreement shall mean those job classifications of Steam/Pipefitter, Carpenter, Machinist, Industrial Mechanic, Electrician, Stationary Engineer II, and Chief Stationary Engineer I, as set out in the Collective Agreement under Appendix "A" Maintenance Department. Also included will be future job classifications listed under Appendix "A" Maintenance Department which would require a journeyman status certified and registered with the Nova Scotia Department of Labour. Openings in the Skilled Trades Classification will be posted as stated in Article 10.11 (c).
The Company acknowledges that the CAW recognizes other classifications as Skilled Trades and that from time to time the Company and Union will meet and discuss expanding these classifications.
9
3.04 BASELINE NUMBERS
Total number of positions per job classification as established by the parties and set out under Letter of Understanding 4. This number will be used to determine the maximum number of recalls per classification before the job posting procedure is implemented.
3.05	UMBRELLA JOB
A lower Group level job included in a job description in which an employee must be able to perform all aspects of that job on a regular basis as stipulated in the job description.
3.06	EMERGENCY
An emergency is any sudden or unusual occurrence or condition that could not, by the exercise of reasonable judgment, have been foreseen by the employer, for example, extreme weather conditions, natural disaster, a breakdown of equipment that is critical to the operations of an entire department or the entire plant.
3.07	LAYOFF
When a layoff is less than one (1) regularly scheduled work week, employees will be laid off according to classification by departmental shift. When a layoff is one (1) regularly scheduled work week or more, employees will be laid off according to seniority within classification.
ARTICLE 4 - RECOGNITION
4.01	MEMBERS OF UNIT AND STAFF EXCLUSIONS
The Company recognizes the Union as the exclusive collective bargaining agent for all its employees employed at its plant at 435 Willow Street in Truro, Nova Scotia, save and except first line supervisors, supervision above rank of first line supervisor, office, technical (unless listed as a job classification in Appendix A), clerical and sales staff, security personnel and/or any other employees excluded by Paragraphs (a) and (b) of subsection (2) of Section 1 of the Trade Union Act.
4.02	OTHER MEMBERS
Any part-time or student employees hired by the Company for a period of more than five (5) working days, save those excluded in 4.01, shall be part of the bargaining unit unless excluded by mutual consent, in writing, of the Company and the Union.
However, all provisions of this Agreement shall be prorated in a ratio of hours scheduled compared to a regular 8-hour shift where applicable.
10
ARTICLE 5 - MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
5.01	MANAGEMENT RIGHTS DEFINED
The parties to this Agreement recognize and acknowledge that the management and control of the plant operations and all other Company operations and the direction of the working force are fixed exclusively in the Company and, without restricting the generality of or limiting, impairing or curtailing the foregoing, the Union acknowledges that it is the exclusive function of the Company except as limited by the express provisions of this Agreement to:
(a)	independently make and execute all plans and decisions deemed necessary, in its judgement, to the welfare, advancement, and best interests of the Company;
(b)	maintain order and efficiency;
(c)	employ, lay off, re-employ, evaluate performance, promote, demote, classify, transfer, suspend and retire employees, and to discipline or discharge any employee for just cause;
(d)	make, enforce and alter, from time to time, rules and regulations to be observed by the employees;
(e)	extend, limit, curtail or cease operations or any part thereof, or to remove any or all operations to another location as circumstances may require, or to close or liquidate any or all operations;
(f)	determine the nature and kind of business conducted by the Company, financial policies, accounting methods and procedures, the products to be manufactured, the quality standards of products, the price to be charged for each product, distribution and sales policies, the engineering and design of products and materials to be used in manufacture, the kinds and locations of plants and their layout, the equipment to be used, the location of new equipment and relocation of old equipment, the control of materials and parts, the methods and techniques of work, the content of jobs, the schedules of production, the size and character of inventories, the number of employees to be employed, those persons to be hired, qualifications to be required of new employees, and methods by which such qualifications are determined, the selection and assignment of staff and supervisory personnel, compensation for services paid to employees not within the unit for which the Union acts as the exclusive bargaining agent, appropriation and expenditures of funds in whatever amount and for whatever purpose, and to determine and exercise all other functions and prerogatives, these remaining solely with the Company.
11
5.02 CONTINUED OPERATION
In case the Company should determine that any operation be closed, removed or liquidated, the union agrees that operations shall continue without any slowing down or interruption until all stock in process has been completed and other assignments associated with this action have also been completed.
ARTICLE 6 - UNION MEMBERSHIP
6.01	UNION MEMBERSHIP DEFINED
The parties hereto mutually agree that all employees hired after the date of execution of this Agreement must, within one month of employment, become members of the Union for as long as he is employed with the Company.
6.02	UNION ACTIVITY
The Company and the Union agree that there will be no intimidation, discrimination, interference, restraint or coercion exercised or practice by either of them or by any of their representatives or members because of an employee's membership or nonmembership in the Union or because of his activity or lack of activity in the Union.
6.03	UNION CHECK-OFF
(a)	All new employees in the bargaining unit shall be required, as a condition of employment, to authorize the Company to begin, after their first full week of employment, deducting from their pay an amount equal to the regular Union dues assessed by the Union, and to remit these dues monthly to the Local Union Financial Secretary. The said sums shall be accepted as the regular contributions, of all employees, to the Union.
(b)	The Company agrees to deduct Canadian Skilled Trades Council dues of one-half hour pay per year from those employees designated by CAW as Skilled Trades. First deduction to be made from the employees’ first pay received after completion of the probation period. Future deductions to be made in January of succeeding years, or upon completion of one (1) month’s work in that calendar year. All sums deducted shall be remitted to the Financial Secretary of CAW 4612 local, to be allocated and distributed by them to the CAW Skilled Trades Council.
12
6.04 UNION DUES RECORDED
Once an employee has authorized the Company to deduct Union dues, such employee shall not be entitled to cancel the authorization so given while this Agreement is in effect.
The Company agrees to indicate on each employee's T4 earnings record the amount of Union dues deducted for the previous year. The Union agrees to advise the Company, each month, of any refund made to any employee.
6.05	UNION MEETINGS
It is agreed that the Union and the employees will not hold meetings at any time on the premises of the Company without permission of Management.
6.06	UNION MEMBER ORIENTATION
The Company agrees that each new employee will have the opportunity during the first week of employment to meet with his Committee Member for Union Orientation as defined in Article 7.01. The new employees’ supervisor will introduce him to his departmental Grievance Committee Member, so that the new member can receive Union orientation. The Company will provide the Union’s Local Chairperson after the end of each week with a list of employees who joined the Company during that week.
6.07	UNION AGENT VISITS
The Company agrees to permit visits by the agent of the Union to contact employee representatives or officers of the Union in connection with provisions of this Agreement, and further agrees that such person will be permitted on the Company property providing prior consent of Management is obtained.
6.08	UNION BULLETIN BOARDS
The Company will provide bulletin boards for the purpose of posting Union information, in each department as well as the two (2) locked bulletin boards currently in use. Use of these bulletin boards must be restricted to the following types of information:
(a)	Election notices, names of candidates, and results of Union elections.
(b)	Notices of Union meetings, schools and minutes from Union meetings.
(c)	Any other information authorized by the Company and the Union.
Each item will be provided with a removal date and will remain posted until that date.
13
6.09 UNION BARGAINING COMMITTEE
The Company agrees to pay the bargaining committee all regular straight time lost for time spent during actual bargaining during the renewal contract negotiations to a maximum of seven (7) days.
ARTICLE 7 - GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
7.01	GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE MEMBER
The Company acknowledges the right of the Union to have employees elected or otherwise appointed Committee Members and, in addition, one Local Chairperson.
All Committee Members and the Local Chairperson shall be regular employees of the Company who are paying union dues. The names and area of representation of each of the Committee Members and the Local Chairperson shall be given to the Company in writing and the Company shall not be required to recognize any such Committee Members or Local Chairperson until it has been so notified.
The number of Committee Members so elected or appointed shall be comprised of not more than three (3) Committee Members from each work area.
Tufting	National Service Centre
Beaming	Quality Assurance/Product Development
Dyehouse	Finishing
Yam Mill	Maintenance
7.02	MEMBER LEAVES WORK STATION
The right of Grievance Committee Members to leave their work without loss of pay to investigate or adjust grievances on behalf of an employee in any area they represent is granted on the following conditions:
(a)	The Committee Member shall obtain the permission of his Supervisor before leaving work. In cases where a Committee Member represents more than one area, or is required because of an absence or vacancy to represent another area, or to see the Local Chairperson, he shall, in addition, advise the Supervisor of the other area the purpose of his business. Should permission be denied for reasons unsatisfactory to the Committee Member, he may proceed to Step 3 of the Grievance Procedure.
(b)	The time off shall be devoted to the prompt handling of grievances and shall be limited to the time required for attending Grievance Step meetings.
14
(c)	The Unit Chair shall be allocated eight (8) hours per week at his/her regular hourly rate to administer the affairs of the workplace on behalf of the Union.
7.03	NOTICE OF DISCIPLINE
(a)	A copy of any recorded verbal warning, written reprimand, suspension or discharge which has been given to any employee will be given to the Steward designated by the Union for that employee's department and also a readable copy will be given to the Local Chairperson.
(b)	Employees will have the departmental Grievance Committee member or if the departmental Grievance Committee member is not available the Local Grievance Committee Chairperson present whenever disciplinary action is involved.
Prior to administering suspension or discharge, notification will be given to the Local Grievance Committee Chairperson and/or the Grievance Committee member having jurisdiction regarding the Company’s intention, unless the situation calls for immediate removal of the employee from Company premises.
(c)	Any notation of discipline shall be removed from an employee’s file after eighteen (18) months have passed since the infraction.
(d)	No disciplinary action shall be held against the record of any employee if it is not administered within five (5) working days after discovery of the incident. Extension to the five (5) working days may be accepted by mutual agreement between the parties.
ARTICLE 8 - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
8.01	PURPOSE
The parties to this Agreement acknowledge that it is of the utmost importance to deal
with complaints and grievances as quickly as possible.
8.02	GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
Step 1 An employee having a complaint should discuss it with his immediate
Supervisor, within five (5) employee working days of the event giving rise to the complaint, in order to provide the Supervisor with an opportunity to adjust the complaint. The employee shall be accompanied by his Grievance Committee Member or another Grievance Committee Member if his Member is unavailable. The Supervisor shall reply, in writing, to the employee's complaint within three (3) employee working days.
15
Step 2 Failing settlement of the complaint at Step I, a formal written grievance outlining the alleged violation of the Agreement and redress sought shall be presented to the employee's immediate Supervisor within five (5) employee working days of having presented the complaint to the Supervisor. The written grievance must be signed by the employee filing the grievance and must be presented by his Grievance Committee Member. Within five (5) employee working days of the receipt of the grievance, a meeting will be held. The employee's immediate Supervisor and the Business Unit Manager or their Nominee will meet to discuss the grievance with the employee, and his Grievance Committee Member or another Committee Member if his Member is unavailable. A written decision to the grievance will be provided within the same five (5) working day time limit.
A copy of the decision will be given to the employee, his Grievance Committee Member, and the Committee Local Chairperson. Receipt of the decision by the Committee Local Chairperson, or his designate, shall constitute fulfillment of the time limits of this Step. If no settlement is reached, then the grievance may proceed to Step 3.
Step 3 Within five (5) employee working days of the receipt of the decision at Step 2, the Grievance Committee Local Chairperson, or his designate, may submit the grievance to the Human Resources Manager. Step 3 grievances will be considered during a meeting that will be held on the third Thursday of the month or on a date mutually agreed upon by the Human Resources Manager and the Grievance Committee Local Chairperson, or his designate. The Step 3 meeting shall include the Human Resources Manager or his nominee, not more than four (4) Management Representatives, the President of the Union, the Grievance Committee Local Chairperson, not more than two (2) members of the Grievance Committee, the employee, and the Union Representative, if desired by the Company or the Union. A Step 3 meeting may be cancelled by mutual consent between the Company and the Union. The Human Resources Manager or his nominee shall provide a written decision within five (5) employee working days of the Step 3 meeting. A copy of the decision will be given to the employee, his Grievance Committee Member, and the Grievance Committee Local Chairperson. Receipt of the decision by the Grievance Committee Local Chairperson, or his designate, shall constitute fulfilment of the time limits of this Step.
8.03	ARBITRATION NOTIFICATION
If all required steps of the grievance procedure have been followed, and a final settlement of the grievance has not been reached at Step No. 3, then the Union may at any time within forty-five (45) calendar days after the decision is given under Step 3, give written notification of its intent to invoke arbitration, mediation/arbitration, or government mediation as provided in Article 9. The Union reserves the right to proceed to arbitration on any grievance.
16
8.04 DISCHARGE AND SUSPENSION GRIEVANCES
If an employee who has completed his probationary period is discharged or suspended without just cause and feels he has been unjustly dealt with, he shall, within seven (7) calendar days after the suspension or discharge, file a written grievance with the Company and the grievance shall be dealt with beginning at Step No. 3 of the grievance procedure.
8.05	MANAGEMENT GRIEVANCES
Any grievance instituted by Management may be referred to the Chairperson of the Grievance Committee within five (5) days of the occurrence of the circumstances giving rise to the grievance. The Union Representative and the Chairperson of the Grievance Committee and/or President of the Local shall meet within five (5) days thereafter with Management to consider the grievance. If final settlement of the grievance is not completed within five (5) days of such meeting, the grievance may be taken to Arbitration as provided in Article 9 at any time within 30 calendar days thereafter, but not later.
8.06	POLICY GRIEVANCES
Any difference arising directly between the Union and the Company as to the interpretation or alleged violation of the provisions of this Agreement may be submitted in writing at Step 3 of the grievance procedure.
8.07	TIME LIMITS
Any and all time limits fixed by the grievance procedure and for filing arbitrations may be extended by mutual agreement in writing between the Company and the Union. The matter in dispute shall be deemed to have been abandoned should the Company or the Union not proceed from one step to another within the time limits specified, or as mutually extended as set out herein.
A grievance will automatically advance from Step No. 1 to Step No. 2 of the Grievance procedure if the Company fails to respond within the time limits specified, or as mutually extended as set out herein.
A grievance will be deemed to have been judged valid if the Company fails to respond in Step No. 3 within the time limits specified, or as mutually extended as set out herein.
8.08	GRIEVANCES DEFINED
Only differences concerning the interpretation or alleged violation of the Agreement are proper subjects for utilization of the grievance and arbitration procedures.
17
8.09	GRIEVANCE RESOLUTION BINDING
All decisions reached by mutual agreement under this grievance procedure shall be final and binding on the Company, the Union, and the employee.
ARTICLE 9 - ARBITRATION
9.01	APPOINTMENT
“In the case of government mediation, the government will appoint a mediator.
In any case in which arbitration or mediation/arbitration shall be required under this Agreement, the Union and the Company shall first attempt to mutually agree upon a single Arbitrator within ten (10) days from the date of the receipt of the notice of Arbitration.
Should the Union and the Company fail to agree on the selection of an Arbitrator, then the appointment of an impartial Arbitrator shall be made by the Minister of Labour for the Province of Nova Scotia. The appointee will act as a single Arbitrator.
9.02	LIMITATIONS
The Arbitrator will not be authorized to make any decision which would alter, modify, or amend any part of this Agreement.
However, the Arbitrator may dispose of any discharge or discipline grievance in the manner which he considers just or equitable.
9.03	DECISION BINDING
The decision of the Arbitrator will be final and binding upon both parties and the employees concerned, and should, normally, be rendered within 30 calendar days from the time the matter was referred to him. This period may be extended by mutual agreement between the Union and the Company.
9.04	EXPENSES
When the Arbitrator deems it advisable to incur other expenses in connection with the grievance, the Arbitrator will obtain the consent of the parties before incurring such expenses.
Expenses which are incurred in connection with the services of the Arbitrator will be borne equally by both parties to this Agreement.
Witness fees and allowances shall be paid by the party calling such witnesses.
18
ARTICLE 10 - SENIORITY
10.01	SENIORITY DATE
After having served the probationary period, an employee will be given a seniority date coinciding with the most recent date such employee first commenced work with the Company under Article 10.03.
10.02	SENIORITY ZONE
(a)	Seniority shall be plant wide. An employee transferred to another department shall retain his original seniority date. Seniority lists, with the following information, Name, Employee #, Date of Hire, Current Job Classification, Status (Active, Lay-off, Other, or Probationary), will be revised after signing of this Agreement and every three (3) months thereafter. Copies of the lists will be posted on the corresponding departmental bulletin boards and copies will also be given to the Chairperson of the Grievance Committee. If an employee does not challenge his seniority as stated on the seniority list within ten (10) employee working days after the list is posted, then that statement shall be deemed correct. Protests with respect to alleged inaccuracies in the seniority lists shall be initiated at Step 3 of the grievance procedure.
(b)	An updated layoff/recall list shall be provided to the Chairperson of the Grievance Committee when changes occur.
10.03	PROBATION PERIOD
An employee will be deemed to be a probationary employee and he shall have no seniority rights until, he has acquired ninety (90) days of accumulated employment, within the preceding twelve (12) months, at which time he shall become entitled to Company seniority dating from his first most recent date of hire.
Any disciplinary action against a probationary employee including, without limitation, warnings, suspensions, demotions and discharge, shall be deemed absolutely to be for just cause. The Company, in its absolute discretion may terminate the employment of any probationary employee at any time with or without notice or pay in lieu of notice. The probationary period may be extended by the duration of any leave of absence granted during that period and may be extended by mutual agreement in writing between the Company and the Union.
A new employee, during his probationary period but no later than upon completion of his probationary period, will be assigned by the Company to a job classification which has not been filled through the job posting procedure. The Company will inform the Local Chairperson of any such assignments, in writing, within five (5) working days.
19
10.04 LOSS OF SENIORITY
An employee shall lose all seniority when he:
(a)	voluntarily quits his employment with the Company or retires.
(b)	is discharged and is not reinstated through the grievance procedure or arbitration.
(c)	is off work for a continuous period of twenty-four (24) months or the length of the employee's seniority, whichever is shorter, except when a leave of absence has been granted, or the employee is on Long Term Disability or WCB.
(d)	fails to accept recall when given notice of recall, or fails to report to work within five (5) days of accepting recall, unless a reason acceptable to the Company (such as a 2 week notice to a current employer) is given and a leave of absence procedure invoked.
(e)	fails to return to work upon termination of authorized leave of absence, unless a reason acceptable to the Company is given.
(f)	accepts gainful employment while on leave of absence without first obtaining the consent of the Company in writing.
(g)	fails to notify the Company of his absence for a period of three (3) consecutive working days unless his reason for such lack of notification is beyond his control.
10.05	EMPLOYEE ADDRESS
Employees are responsible to keep the Company informed of their current address and phone number. Notices shall be by phone and if the person cannot be contacted, then by registered mail. Notice required to be given by the company shall be deemed to be given if forwarded to the employee at the last address of which the Company had notice. The Local Chairperson will be notified when the Company has failed to contact an employee for recall or other seniority related items.
10.06	SHORT LAYOFFS
Short layoffs may be invoked as the result of a breakdown of equipment, accident, or other events outside the control of the Company.
Before reducing the workweek for an extended period of time the Company shall make every reasonable attempt to implement a work share program offered by the Federal Government.
20
Should a short layoff, where the plant or a portion of the plant is shut down, exceed more than twenty-four (24) consecutive hours, an employee affected by such a layoff may exercise his seniority as set out in the following order.
(a)	By taking the layoff or by displacing the most junior employee within his departmental shift, provided he is capable of performing the required work efficiently without additional training or,
(b)	If the employee is not able to exercise his seniority as stated above he shall;
(i)	Displace the most junior employee in another department on the same shift in a group level (4) job for which he has previously qualified and without the requirement of further training, or a group level (3) job for which he has previously qualified and without the requirement of further training or a group level (2) job for which he has previously qualified and without the requirement of further training, or;
(ii)	Displace the most junior employee in a group level I job, provided he is capable of performing the required work efficiently.
Once the layoff expires, the employee affected by the layoff must return to his prior job classification.
Additions to an employee’s bumping list will not occur as a result of a bump as per Article 10.06.
10.07	EXTENDED LAYOFFS AND BUMPING
(a)	The Company will give the Union one (1) week notice in writing of its intent to layoff if the layoff is to exceed one (1) regularly scheduled work week. The Company will provide the initial employee being laid off the same one (1) week notice of the layoff in his classification. This does not apply to an employee who is subsequently laid off as a result of having been bumped by a more senior employee.
(b)	Foremost, those employees with seniority who remain must be capable of performing the required work efficiently.
(c)	Employees with seniority shall not be required to leave the plant through the layoff procedure while employees without seniority remain in the plant except where such employee holds a skilled trades job classification.
21
(d)	(i) When a layoff occurs, an employee shall exercise his bumping rights as he
previously set out. The employee shall have the right to choose the order he will bump into jobs which he previously qualified in through job postings, previous bumps, temporary transfers (prior to January 2007), recalls, and umbrella jobs (see definition). If an employee gains any job to which he is entitled to bump the employee has the right to rearrange his list. The Company will notify employees in writing, copied to the Union, of their right to rearrange their bumping list after acquiring a new job. The employee will have fourteen (14) days to sign off and return his notification; otherwise any new jobs will become the first possible bumps.
(ii) If such employee, because of his seniority, cannot exercise his bumping rights as set out in (i) above, and where such employee is not the most junior employee in the plant, he shall bump the most junior employee working in a group level four (4) classification first. If there are no junior employees to be displaced in a group level four (4) job classification then the employee will bump the most junior employee in a group level three (3) classification. This bumping process will continue in sequential order until the employee has displaced a junior employee. An employee exercising this bumping right will not be permitted to select a bumping preference based on group level or job classification. The sequential bumping order will be strictly adhered to. An employee exercising this right must be able to show that he will be able to do the job within the qualifying time or be disqualified.
Qualifying for positions
To become qualified for a position an employee must satisfactorily complete the qualifying time as set out in job postings, training plans, or a qualifying time mutually agreed between the Union and the Company. Should an employee be displaced from a job by reason of layoff, bumping or recall, before completion of the qualifying time, the employee will be entitled to have recall to the position. Any remaining qualifying period, training, and wage progression movement shall resume upon recall to the position.
(e)	The right to bump shall be confined to those employees who have completed their probationary period.
(f)	The onus is on an employee to be aware of his bumping rights and it is agreed that the Company will not be liable to an employee or his Union for an employee failing to exercise his proper bumping rights. However, when requested, the Company will assist an employee in determining his bumping right.
22
(g)	In the case of a reduction, an employee affected by a layoff may elect to take the layoff if he is in a skilled trades classification or in the case where an employee has a bona fide medical reason and is unable to perform work which is available and such reason is acceptable to the Company.
10.08	RECALL PROCEDURE
Recall from a layoff or displacement shall be based on the following:
(a)	For a group five 5 or higher job, it is understood that, a vacancy shall be filled first by the most senior displaced or laid off employee who is qualified to do the job, until the baseline number (see definition) has been reached.
(b)	For a group four 4 or lower job, it is understood that, a vacancy shall be filled first by either the senior displaced employee from that job classification or the most senior employee on layoff from the plant, whoever is most senior, until the baseline number (see definition) has been reached.
(c)	A Skilled Trades employee shall remain on layoff and will be recalled only to his skilled trades job classification when it becomes available or will be placed on general recall status if advised in writing at the time of lay off.
(d)	An employee exercising this right must be able to show that he will be able to do the job within the qualifying time or be disqualified.
10.09	ADVANCE APPLICATIONS FOR POSTINGS
(a)	If an employee wishes to be considered for the next vacancy which may occur in any job classification, he may make written application to the Human Resource Department using the prescribed form. The Company will forward a copy to the Union President and will maintain the application on file until the end of each calendar year or until the employee is awarded the job or he asks, in writing, for this application to be removed, whichever occurs first. When a vacancy occurs in the job classification sought, he is assured of consideration along with any others who may have applied by that method or through the normal job posting procedure and will be required to take the job classification if awarded as in 10.10(a).
(b)	Employees who have such a request filed with the Human Resource Department and are awarded the position must return to work within four (4) months from the date of the posting. If the employee cannot return to work or does not return to work within the four month period the position will be awarded to the employee next in line who qualifies.
23
10.10	PROMOTION AND JOB POSTING
(a)	Posting of Permanent Job Vacancies
All present and newly created hourly-rated permanent vacancies within the bargaining unit shall be posted on the Company bulletin board, with an up-to-date job description, for six (6) calendar days, which shall exclude holidays and plant shutdowns, to give employees with qualifications and seniority ample time to apply in writing. Employees are required to submit separate applications when applying for more than one job posting and must indicate their preference (e.g. first, second, third, etc.). The successful applicant for a posted vacancy will be obliged to take the job when awarded a job posting.
The Company agrees to discuss, with the Union, the qualifications for all group level 7 or above job postings prior to their official posting. Qualifying experience or skill as stated in the job posting will be reasonable and consistent with requirements of the job classification.
(b)	Awarding of Job Postings
The Company shall fill all job vacancies based upon plant seniority only, when awarding job postings to current group level 6 jobs and lower with the exception of Lab Tech. II -Dyehouse and Q.P.C. Tech. I. However, tests may be required for reasons of safety and colour blindness. All tests written and passed within a twenty-four (24) month period shall not have to be rewritten.
(c)	Special Skill Job Vacancies	.
When requisite qualifications for permanent job vacancies, which require special skills, are not possessed by applicants, then:
(i)	A certified trade (as per Article 3.03) vacancy will be filled through the Apprenticeship Program (Appendix “C”) or through outside hiring.
(ii)	Positions recognized as Specialized Classifications will be filled as per Appendix “B”.”
24
(d)	Transfer to New Job
The Company will be able to temporarily transfer employees or hire new employees to fill a job vacancy that cannot be filled immediately by the successful applicant because of training requirements, leave of absence, medical leaves or vacations in the job classification of the successful applicant. This period shall not exceed twenty-one (21) calendar days, unless mutually agreed upon in writing by the Company and the Union. Wage progression (Article 19.02) shall start when the job is awarded.
(e)	Failing to Qualify
An employee failing to become qualified for the new job will be returned to the job from which he was promoted.
(f)	Accommodation of a Disability
Before awarding a job posting, the Company and Union will consider the accommodation of any employees who are off work as a result of an occupational disability.
(g)	Job Posting for Permanent (Non-Rotatingf Shifts
Job postings will be identified by shift vacancy, and posting will be open to all employees, including employees currently in the classification on other shifts. The job will be awarded in accordance with 10.10 (b). If the successful applicant is currently in the classification on another shift then the employee will be moved to fill the vacancy as per 10.10 (d) and the vacancy created by that move will be then posted and identified by shift vacancy.
10.11	PROMOTION RESTRICTIONS
The only restriction on employees being awarded a job posting within the plant shall be that an employee who has been awarded a job posting is prohibited from posting to another job for one (1) month plus the waiting time period stated in Article 10.10 (d), to a maximum of fifty-two (52) days. This restriction period shall not apply if the job posting has been identified by the employee as his first choice on a previously submitted Advance Application For Postings Form as prescribed under 10.09 (a).
10.12	SENIORITY RETENTION
(a)	An employee permanently promoted or transferred from one job classification to another shall retain his seniority in his former job classification until he is transferred and commences work in his new job classification.
25
(b)	An employee who is laid off or displaced from his job classification as a result of being bumped or as a result of a reduction of the work force and is out of his original job classification for a period of two (2) years, shall hold the job classification he is in at the time the two (2) years expire.
10.13	TRANSFER OUT OF UNIT
(a)	In the event that an employee within the bargaining unit has been promoted or transferred to a position beyond the scope of this Agreement and within one year is returned by Management to a position within the scope of this Agreement, he shall retain all seniority he had previously acquired and shall have added thereto the seniority accumulated while serving outside the bargaining unit. This one year period shall be accumulative. Such an employee shall retain his job rights for this one year period.
(b)	In the event that an employee within the bargaining unit has been promoted or transferred to a position beyond the scope of this Agreement for more than one year but less than two years is returned by Management to a position within the scope of this Agreement, he will be laid off and will be subject to recall based on the seniority accumulated prior to the promotion or transfer.
(c)	The Company shall advise the Union in writing of the name of any employee within the bargaining unit who is promoted or transferred by the Company to a position beyond the scope of this Agreement and the date in which the promotion or transfer occurred.
10.14	TEMPORARY TRANSFERS
(a) Where a temporary transfer of an employee to a job classification is necessary to effect proper and efficient operation of the plant, the Company will give preference by seniority to employees within the shift and department affected to fill the immediate job vacancy and subsequent job vacancies.
Temporary transfers will be made by giving the senior employee occupying a job classification within the departmental shift concerned preference provided he makes his desire known to his Supervisor and that he has the knowledge and ability to do the job without any further training. If a senior employee does not indicate preference to be temporarily transferred, the Company will temporarily transfer the least senior employee from within the departmental shift who has the knowledge and ability to do the job without any further training. The Company must use all available qualified employees within the department before making temporary transfers from outside of the department.
26
Should a situation arise where a temporary transfer for 4 hours or less is necessary to provide additional work or to meet isolated, short-term production requirements, such transfer will be made without regard to qualifications.
This clause will not be used to avoid the job posting provision of this agreement.
(b)	The employee transferred shall receive the higher of his current rate or the rate of the job to which he is transferred, as outlined in the wage schedule. He shall be considered to be in his regular job classification for the purpose of overtime distribution during such time as he fills the temporary job. The senior employee, who makes his intentions known and is denied the opportunity, will receive the higher of his current rate or the rate of the job he would have been transferred to. The temporary transferred employee shall be asked for overtime in the temporary transferred job after everyone in the classification is considered. Upon completion of such temporary transfer period, the transferred employee shall be returned to his previous job.
(c)	Temporary transfers shall be limited to a maximum of seven (7) calendar days except where such transfer is caused by a leave of absence, a medical leave, vacation or training, in which case the temporary transfer may continue for the duration of the absence.
Temporary transfers that are anticipated to last more than fourteen (14) calendar days shall result in a recall of an employee to the classification, where an employee has recall rights to that classification.
If production requirements do not allow for the entitled employee(s) to be released, a laid off employee from outside the plant, who is qualified for the position without further training will be temporarily recalled. The entitled employee(s) will have their recall date reset as per that date.
The temporarily recalled employee shall resume their layoff at the expiration of the temporary work.
(d)	The Company shall keep a record of, and provide the Union with notification of, all temporary transfers that exceed one (1) calendar day.
(e)	Any employee who is temporarily transferred for one (1) regularly scheduled work week or more to a job classification in which they have recall rights will have their recall rights updated to the last day of their temporary transfer. If the senior employee with recall rights is bypassed, they will have their recall rights reset after one (1) regularly scheduled work week.
27
(f)	Time spent in training as per Article 10.15 (a) or when assigned out of classification shall not be considered “qualifying time” for any position.
10.15	TRAINING PROGRAMS
(a)	Training for Temporary Transfers
When training programs for job classifications within the bargaining unit are implemented it is understood that employees may be trained under the following guidelines:
Opportunities for training shall be posted within the department and shall be awarded to the most senior applicant(s) in the department on the shift. If there is an insufficient number of employees to fill the opportunities, the Company may require the most junior employee(s) in the department on the shift to be trained.
When a permanent classification vacancy exists it shall be posted and filled in accordance with Article 10.10- Promotion and Job Posting.
Employees trained for temporary transfers may be assigned to positions as per Article 10.14 (a) and the duration of such assignments shall be in accordance with Article 10.14 (c).
Employees who are trained for temporary transfers shall retain ownership of their original classification.
Rates of pay and overtime for employees trained for temporary transfers assigned out of their classification shall be governed by Article 10.14 (b).
(b)	The Company and the Union agree to establish and maintain a Joint Training Committee. The purpose and mandate of the Joint Training Committee will be to identify the specific training required to develop the necessary skills, qualifications and competencies for employees in each classification. The Joint Training Committee will also be mandated to oversee the development of training programs and to review and assess the success of these programs.
The Joint Training Committee shall consist of an equal number of members from the Union and the Company. The Joint Training Committee shall meet once every month or more often as may be required.
1)
2)
3)
4)
5)
28
(c)	Training required to perform job duties or for health and safety purposes shall normally occur during an employee’s regular work schedule. If such training occurs outside an employee’s regular work schedule time spent will be paid at the applicable overtime rate. Training required for Specialized Classifications and Apprenticeship shall be governed by Appendix “B” and Appendix “C”, respectively.
10.16	PERMANENT SHIFT TRANSFERS
(a)	For all employees transferred from one shift to another the transfer shall be based on seniority within the classification affected. Forty-eight (48) hours notice shall be required before any shift transfer takes place.
(b)	Employees will be able to temporarily trade shifts for up to thirty (30) days providing they have permission from their immediate supervisor. Provisions of Article 10.16 (a) shall not apply.
(c)	If there is more than one shift rotation working (i.e. 12 and 8 hour rotating shifts) in any job classification, the senior employees in the job classification affected shall have the right to choose which shift rotation they will work on.
10.17	STUDENT EMPLOYEES
It is understood that the Company will first temporarily recall an employee who is laid off from the plant to fill in for temporary increases in production requirements, vacations and other absences before hiring a student employee. When the Company deems it necessary, it may hire and train student employees for Group Level five (5) or lower to fill in for temporary increases in production requirements, vacations or other absences. These employees will pay Union Dues and be under the rules and regulations that apply to all employees but will not have seniority rights or rights to grievance procedures that normally are given to employees who have completed their probationary periods.
Student employees will be limited to working in the period from April 1 to August 31.
The rate of pay for student employees will be twenty-five cents ($0.25) per hour below the rate for Group 1 jobs.
The Company will provide the Local Chairperson with a list, weekly, containing the names of all student employees and the jobs they have worked at during the previous week.
29
ARTICLE 11 - LEAVE OF ABSENCE
11.01	REQUEST FOR LEAVE
The Company may grant leave of absence without pay to employees for acceptable reasons and durations. The employee will endeavour to provide 7 calendar days notice to their immediate Supervisor.
The request will be considered jointly by the employee’s supervisor and the Director of Human Resources, giving due consideration to operational needs and to ensure fair and consistent consideration of all requests. A copy of the decision shall be provided to the Unit Chairperson.
11.02	LEAVE FOR UNION BUSINESS
The Company will allow leave of absence without pay to a maximum of one (1) representative from each department, as listed in Article 7.01, chosen by the Union, to participate in union activities. The Plant Manager will respond at least 48 hours before the event. Such request for leave will not be unreasonably withheld.
11.03	BEREAVEMENT LEAVE
(a)	An employee who suffers a death in his immediate family shall, upon request, be granted a leave of absence beginning at the time of the death five (5) consecutive working days to make arrangements for and to attend the funeral. The employee shall be compensated at his regular rate of pay for each day of his normal work schedule without premiums. Immediate family is defined as Spouse, Father, Mother, Sister, Brother, Child, Father-in-Law, and Mother-in-Law, or the Step family equivalent.
(b)	An employee who suffers a death in his extended family shall, upon request, be granted a leave of absence beginning at the time of the death three (3) consecutive working days to make arrangements for and to attend the funeral. The employee shall be compensated at his regular rate of pay for each day of his normal work schedule without premiums. Extended family is defined as Legal Guardian or Grandchild or Step family equivalent. Bereavement leave shall also be granted in the event of death of an individual not fitting the relationships outlined above, but being domicile in the same unit residence as the employee at the time of death.
(c)	Employees are ensured of two days without loss of pay to attend the funeral of a Grandparent, Grandparent of Spouse, Sister-in-Law, Brother-in-Law, or the Step family equivalent; and one day without loss of pay to attend the funeral of an Aunt, Uncle, Niece, or Nephew, or the Step family equivalent.
30
(d)	Application for Bereavement Leave under this provision of the Agreement must be completed in writing using the prescribed Company form.
(e)	Common-Law status of a Spouse or Same Sex Spouse will be recognized only if the employee has advised the Company in writing of such Common-Law status prior to bereavement.
(f)	If an employee is on vacation, bereavement leave will start on the day of the death, and remaining vacation will be re-scheduled without loss of pay to the employee. Bereavement leave will be extended as set out in (a) only.
11.04	LEAVE OF ABSENCE JURY DUTY
An employee who is summoned for jury duty and is required to lose time from work as a result, shall be paid for actual time lost with a maximum of one day's pay at the straight time rate of his position for each day lost, less the amount allowed him for jury duty for each such day excluding any allowances paid by the court for meals, lodging, transportation, etc. The Company may require the employee to provide notification of jury duty to be eligible for remuneration under this clause.
11.05	SICK LEAVE
If an employee leaves work to seek immediate medical attention and proof of that medical attention is provided to the Company, such absences shall be recorded as nonculpable.
Each employee will be granted three (3) days of paid sick leave during the calendar year. Unused sick leave entitlement will be paid out at the end of the calendar year. Sick leave will be paid at the regular rate of pay without premiums, times the hours of the shift scheduled at the time of illness. Employees must have completed their probationary period before qualifying for this leave. Employees who terminate employment will be credited for one paid sick day for each period of three months of employment completed within the calendar year and the final payment of wages of employees who terminate employment will be adjusted according to sick days already used.
11.06	COMPASSIONATE CARE LEAVE
An employee who has been employed for a period of at least three (3) months is entitled to unpaid leave of up to ten (10) weeks duration. Eligibility for such leave shall be in accordance with the Compassionate Care Leave regulations under the Nova Scotia Labour Standards Code.
31
ARTICLE 12 - TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGES, WORKLOADS AND CLASSIFICATIONS
12.01	TECHNOLOGICAL/ORGANIZATIONAL CHANGE
Where a technological or organizational, also covering operational, change will result in the termination of one or more permanent jobs, the Company will engage in meaningful discussion with the Union with the object of arriving at the best solution to the problem of worker displacement. The following principles will provide guidelines for such consultations:
(a)	Eight (8) weeks notice of proposed changes will be given to the Union.
(b)	Flexibility will be practice by both parties.
(c)	Placement of as many employees as practical within Company operations will be attempted.
(d)	Natural attrition will be utilized to minimize worker displacement to the maximum degree the Company finds practical.
(e)	If placement within the Company is not practical, government agencies will be consulted to assist in outside placement.
(f)	Final notice, if necessary, will be given as follows:
(i)	one week's notice in writing to the employee if his seniority is more than three months and less than two years;
(ii)	two weeks' notice in writing to the employee if his seniority is two years or more, but less than five years;
(iii)	four weeks' notice in writing to the employee if his seniority is five years or more, but less than ten years; and,
(iv)	eight weeks' notice in writing if the employee's seniority is ten years or more.
Alternatively, the Company may give notice in writing and pay the employee an amount equal to the pay to which he would have been entitled for work that would have been performed by him, at his regular rate, in a normal non-overtime work week for the appropriate period of notice as defined above.
32
(g)	Three (3) weeks notice must be given to affected employees of shift rotation changes that involves all or the majority of the department.
12.02	COMPETITIVE POSITION AND WORKLOADS
The parties hereto recognize that, for the purpose of providing more efficient operations of the plant and thereby keeping the Company in a competitive position in the industry, it is necessary from time to time to:
(a)	install new and modem machinery;
(b)	develop new machines;
(c)	develop improvements for machinery;
(d)	develop new methods, manufacturing processes and techniques;
(e)	make changes in materials processed or quality	or manufacturing	standards;
(f)	create new jobs and revise or combine existing	jobs	and establish	wage rates;
(g)	make time and motion studies and adjust workloads on jobs, and;
(h)	change from day rates to incentive rates, or vice versa.
Consistent with the principle of a fair day's work for a fair day's pay and consistent with the employee's welfare in regard to safety, health and the effect of sustained effort, the Company may establish and maintain, and the Union agrees to co-operate in establishing and maintaining full workloads.
12.03	JOB CLASSIFICATIONS
The Company will continue the established practice of determining relative wage rates. Before finalizing new or revised job descriptions covered by this Agreement, the Company agrees to discuss with the Union President or his nominee, the Local Chairperson and a Steward of the Department affected, the circumstances giving rise to the change.
The Union may request the Company to re-evaluate a job classification rate. Within ninety (90) days of a written request outlining reasons for the request, the Company will advise the Union of the result of the re-evaluation. This re-evaluation will be signed by the individual who performed the re-evaluation. A job classification rate will not be reduced during the term of the Agreement as a result of a re-evaluation of a job classification requested by the Union.
33
ARTICLE 13 - HOURS OF WORK, OVERTIME AND PREMIUMS
13.01	HOURS OF WORK
(a)	Eight (8) hours of work will constitute a work day and forty hours a work week for 5 day, 8 hour day work and 5 day, 8 hour shift work operations.
(b)	Twelve (12) hours of work will constitute a work day and 40 hours per week averaged over a one year period will constitute a work week for the 12 hour, 7 day work schedule.
(c)	Eight (8) hours of work will constitute a work day and 40 hours per week averaged over a one year period will constitute a work week for an 8 hour, 7 day work schedule. This 8 hour, 7 day work schedule will only be implemented during the term of this Agreement by mutual agreement between the Company and the Union.
(d)	12 hour weekend shifts will be paid an extra 4 hours pay at their regular rate if scheduled to work a Saturday or Sunday. The weekend shift workers will work one other day during the week as designated by the Company. Such day will than be considered as a fixed schedule. If there is more than one available option for work during the week, employees will be given the choice based on seniority.
(e)	Ten (10) hours of work will constitute a work day and forty (40) hours a work week, 10 hour day work and 4 days, 10 hour shift work operations. The 4 day, ten (10) hour work days will run consecutively, excluding weekends. The days of operation will be based on production needs, at the discretion of the Company.
Work week will be Monday to Thursday or Tuesday to Friday, unless otherwise mutually agreed.
Nothing herein, however, shall be interpreted to guarantee minimum hours of work or
limit the number of hours of work that the Company may require.
13.02	MAXIMUM HOURS OF WORK / MINIMUM HOURS OF REST
(a)	An employee may be required to work a maximum of twelve (12) consecutive
hours, consistent with the provisions of Article 13.08 followed by a minimum of eight (8) hours of rest.
The Company may require that the maximum consecutive hours worked be exceeded in case of an emergency (see definition) or other unforeseen
34
circumstance. If the Company has to exceed the twelve (12) hour daily cap for extraordinary production requirements the Union shall receive notice a minimum of twenty-four (24) hours in advance. In such cases the employee will still receive a minimum of eight (8) hours of rest and will not lose pay on his following shift.
(b)	An employee can be made to work a maximum of fifty six (56) hours in a week, a combination of regular hours plus voluntary and mandatory overtime. This would not prevent an employee from volunteering for more overtime hours should they choose to.
(c)	During scheduled production periods where the volume is 80,000 square yards or less, the maximum hours will be reduced to fifty two (52) hours in a week, a combination of regular hours plus voluntary and mandatory overtime. This would not prevent an employee from volunteering for more overtime hours should they choose to.
The Company may require that the maximum hours be 56 in case of an emergency (see definition).
When scheduled volumes result in the need to mandate a total of 56 hours of work (voluntary and mandatory). Employees will be notified by posting no later than the Friday preceding the week where the 56 hour maximum will come into effect.
13.03	BREAKS
Breaks will be provided as follows:
(a)	Eight (8) hour shift work - one paid thirty (30) minute lunch break and two paid fifteen (15) minute rest breaks.
(b)	Twelve (12) hour shift work - one paid thirty (30) minute lunch break and four (4) paid fifteen (15) minute rest breaks, or, one paid thirty (30) minute lunch break and two (2) paid thirty (30) minute rest breaks by mutual agreement between the Supervisor and an employee.
(c)	Ten (10) hour shift work - one paid thirty (30) minute lunch break, and 3 paid fifteen (15) minute rest breaks, by mutual agreement between the Supervisor and an employee.
35
(d)	If production requires prescheduled reduced shifts (less than 8 hours), the breaks
will be provided as follows;
Seven (7) hour shift - one fifteen (15) minute break and one thirty (30) minute break, by mutual agreement between the Supervisor and the employee.
Five (5) or Six (6) hour shift - two fifteen (15) minute breaks or one thirty (30) minute break, by mutual agreement between the Supervisor and an employee.
Four (4) hour shift or less - one fifteen (15) minute break, by mutual agreement between the Supervisor and an employee.
13.04	SHIFT PREMIUMS
(a)	8 HOUR SHIFTS
Eight (8) hour shift workers will be paid a forty cents ($0.40) per hour shift premium for the hours worked between 4:00 pm and 12:00 midnight and a fifty cents ($0.50) per hour shift premium for the hours worked between 12:00 midnight and 8:00 am.
(b)	12 HOUR SHIFTS
Twelve (12) hour shift workers will be paid a sixty cents ($0.60) per hour shift premium for the hours worked between 8:00 pm and 8:00 am.
(c)	10 HOUR SHIFTS
Ten (10) hour shift workers will be paid a sixty cents ($0.60) per hour shift premium for hours worked between 4:00 pm and 6:00 am.
13.05	OVERTIME RATES
(a)	For all authorized work in excess of the regularly scheduled eight hour shifts, an employee will be paid at the rate of one and one half (1 ¥2) times his regular hourly rate.
(b)	During scheduled production periods where the volume is 80,000 square yards or less, overtime will be paid at the rate of two (2) times an employee’s regular pay after twelve (12) hours of overtime has been worked in a week.
During scheduled production periods where the volume is more than 80,000 square yards, overtime will be paid at the rate of two (2) times an employee’s regular pay after sixteen (16) hours of overtime has been worked in a week.
36
(c)	For production employees on 12 hr. 7-day shift schedule who normally work 84 hours every two weeks, the extra 4 hours will be paid at overtime rate. On the week of 36 hours all hours will be paid at regular rate; on the week of 48 hours, 44 hours will be paid at regular rate and 4 hours at the rate of time and one half. It is agreed that absence during the 48 hour week will not eliminate the overtime hours so long as a minimum of 12 hours are worked in that week.
For the 4 day, 10 hour day, the employee will be paid overtime at a rate of 1 lA times the regular rate for any hours worked in excess of ten (10) hours, for a maximum of 2 hours. The employee will be paid at one and one half (1 Vi) times his regular rate for work performed on his designated Saturday and two (2) times his regular rate for work performed on his designated Sunday. A first day off will be considered Saturday. Second and subsequent days off the schedule will be considered to be Sunday.
(d)	If an employee who has worked less than forty (40) regular hours in a week due to an unexcused absence works the first full (as scheduled) subsequent shift in week of absence, he shall be paid on a straight time hourly basis for the equivalent number of hours of the unexcused absence except in the case of overtime worked in primetime as per Article 13.06.
13.06	OVERTIME RATES FOR PRIME TIME
(a)	For the 5-day, 8-hour day work and 5-day, 8-hour shift schedule, the employee will be paid at the rate of two (2) times his regular hourly rate for all authorized work between the hours of 4:00 p.m. Saturday and 4:00 p.m. Sunday.
(b)	For the 7-day, 8-hour or 12-hour day and the 7-day, 8-hour or 12-hour shift schedule, the employee will be paid at one and one half (1 Vi) times his regular hourly rate for work performed on his designated Saturday and two (2) times his regular hourly rate for work performed on his designated Sunday. A first day off will be considered a Saturday. Second and subsequent days off the schedule will be considered to be Sunday.
(c)	For the 4 day, 10 hour day, the employee will be paid overtime at a rate of 1 Vz times the regular rate for any hours worked in excess of ten (10) hours, for a maximum of 2 hours. The employee will be paid at one and one half (1 Vz) times his regular rate for work performed on his designated Saturday and two (2) times his regular rate for work performed on his designated Sunday. A first day off will be considered Saturday. Second and subsequent days off the schedule will be considered to be Sunday.
37
13.07 OVERTIME AND RESCHEDULED SHIFTS
Overtime rate will not be paid for make-up or re-scheduling of shifts to suit the convenience of an employee or group of employees.
13.08 OVERTIME DISTRIBUTION
Overtime work in excess of the shift schedule in effect at any one time is intended to be on a voluntary basis provided adequate response is received. Overtime will be allocated on an equal opportunity basis and will be distributed as evenly as possible to those employees in the job classification for which overtime work is required, who are willing to work overtime, and who are qualified for the work required. Overtime will be offered to employees outside of the job classification within the department only after all reasonable attempts to obtain sufficient response within the job classification have been exhausted. After all reasonable attempts to obtain sufficient response has been exhausted, the Company reserves the right to schedule the employee with the lowest number of mandatory overtime credits, assuming the employee has not reached the maximum hours of work defined in Article 13.02.
It is understood that the distribution of overtime does not assume that each employee sharing overtime will at any given time have received the same number of overtime credits, but merely expresses a fundamental practice to keep such overtime as nearly in balance from time to time as is fair and reasonable under the circumstances.
When the Company deems it necessary to have work performed on overtime the following procedure will be used:
(a)	Overtime opportunities will be first offered to employees in the job classification who normally perform the work, commencing with the employee who has on record the least amount of overtime credits. An employee shall be recorded on the overtime list within his job classification as having worked the overtime when he has worked the overtime; when he is absent from work on his shift when overtime would have been offered to him; when he has been offered voluntary overtime and declines; when he is absent and, as a result of his absence, overtime is required, except when he is on vacation including the weekend (or designated weekend) continuous to the vacation, unless availability is made known beforehand; and when the Company is unable to contact the employee after reasonable attempts to do so. Vacation as referred to above, shall include the preceding weekend to the vacation providing it does not result in an excess of the pre-determined vacation allotment per department as outlined in Article 15.04, unless operational requirements permit.
(b)	After all reasonable attempts to obtain sufficient response by employees from within the job classification are exhausted, overtime opportunities will be offered to employees outside the job classification, within the department. Overtime
38
worked by an employee outside his job classification shall be recorded with the overtime credits on the overtime list as having worked within his job classification. If such an employee declines an overtime opportunity outside his job classification, no overtime credits will be recorded.
(c)	If the balance of overtime hours among employees who normally share overtime work is not properly maintained because of an improper allocation and a grievance is filed, and as a result, an employee is found not to have had his fair share of overtime, the employee affected shall be compensated for the overtime lost at the applicable rate providing the difference in overtime credits exceeds twelve (12) hours. If the difference is less than twelve (12) hours, the affected employee shall receive the next available overtime opportunity.
If the improper allocation of overtime is found to be a result of an employee outside the classification working the overtime or a deliberate or wilful contravention of the provision, the employee(s) affected shall be compensated for the overtime lost at the applicable overtime rate.
(d)	The Company agrees to post separate overtime lists showing voluntary and mandatory credits of employees. Both of these lists will be revised each week and total credits on each list shall be carried forward from week to week. The hours will be reset to zero (0) on the main overtime list at the start of each calendar year, the mandatory overtime list will be reset to zero (0) every three (3) months starting at the beginning of each calendar year. Each department within the plant will be consistent in the manner for which overtime credits are recorded.
(e)	Overtime credits will be recorded on the overtime list as follows: For example, eight (8) hours worked at time and one half will be recorded as twelve (12) credits and eight (8) hours worked at double time will be recorded as sixteen (16) credits. Mandatory overtime credits will be recorded on a separate list following the same calculation of credits. If mandatory overtime is issued after employees volunteer, the volunteers will get mandatory credits for their overtime.
(f)	An employee who is transferred from one job classification to another job classification through a job posting, bumping or recall, will, upon transfer, be credited with the average of the overtime credits in the job classification within the departmental shift to which he is transferred, except when there is only one employee per shift in that classification in which case he will be averaged with those in the classification.
39
(g)	An employee who is absent from work for one week or more, except when he is on vacation, will upon return to work, be credited with the average of the overtime credits in the job classification within the departmental shift to which he returns except when there is only one employee per shift in that classification in which case he will be averaged with those in the classification.
(h)	An employee on temporary transfer under Article 10.15 (b) shall be considered in his regular job classification for the purpose of overtime distribution.
(i)	When overtime credits are equal for all employees in a job classification the most senior employee will be asked first. When mandatory overtime credits are equal for all employees in a job classification, the most junior employee will be scheduled first. These procedures will continue until all employees in the job classification have established credits, at which point overtime will be awarded/scheduled as per previous sections of this Article.
(j)	Probationary or Student employees will be asked for overtime only after all employees in the job classification with seniority have been asked.
(k)	If an employee is asked to change shifts, he shall be paid overtime if not off work for 24 hours before reporting for work on his new shift, unless mutually agreed. If a mandatory change is issued after employees volunteer, the volunteers will be paid the applicable overtime rate. This is not in effect if caused by a layoff as stated in Article 10.07.
(l)	The Company shall make every reasonable attempt to give a minimum of four (4) hour notice for mandatory overtime whenever the overtime is an extension of a regular shift.
The Company agrees that there will be no blanketing of overtime solely for the purposes of complying with this provision.
(m)	The Company is to provide the Union with a copy of the weekly volunteer overtime list and weekly mandatory overtime list on a weekly basis.
13.09 OVERTIME BREAKS
An employee who has worked an eight (8) hour shift and is required to work overtime shall be allowed a ten (10) minute break before the start of his overtime work. If he is scheduled to work two hours or more of overtime, he shall be allowed a twenty (20) minute break prior to beginning his overtime work.
Subsequent breaks will follow the pattern of the department in which he is working.
40
13.10 OVERTIME LUNCH ALLOWANCE
An employee who is required to work two (2) hours or more of overtime as an extension of his shift, provided he has not been given 24 hours advance notice, will be entitled to a seven dollar ($7.00) lunch voucher, redeemable for cash.
13.11	CALL IN
(a)	If a situation arises whereby an employee is recalled without prior notice to come to work after his scheduled shift, he will be paid a minimum of four (4) hours pay at his regular rate or for the actual time worked prior to the commencement of his next shift, at the applicable overtime rate, whichever is greater. At the time the employee is called, he will be advised of the nature of the problem and/or the approximate amount of time he will be required to work. The employee will only be required to perform the work for which he was called except when it is apparent and he is so advised, before he leaves the plant, that additional work is required.
(b)	An employee, while on call-in, will receive a seven dollar ($7.00) lunch voucher for each consecutive four (4) hours worked until the commencement of his next scheduled shift. An employee while on call-in, who works less than four (4) hours however is required to work past one (1) hour immediately prior to the commencement of his next scheduled shift will receive a seven dollar ($7.00) lunch voucher. Use of the lunch voucher shall be in accordance with Article 13.10.
(c)	If an employee is called in after midnight, the call in pay will be six (6) hours pay at his regular rate or for the actual time worked prior to the commencement of his next shift, at the applicable overtime rate, whichever is greater.
13.12	REPORTING IN
Any employee who comes to work for which he was scheduled without having been advised in advance that his services were not required shall receive four (4) hours pay at his regular rate for his scheduled eight (8) hour shift, five (5) hours pay at his regular rate for his scheduled ten (10) hour shift, or six (6) hours pay at his regular rate for his scheduled twelve (12) hour shift, whichever the case may be, provided he does any job available that the Company may request. This, however, does not apply in the case where lack of available work is due to causes beyond the control of the Company, as, for example, machinery breakdown, fire, flood, power failure or other like causes, or if the failure to receive notice was caused by the employee's absence on the previous day.
41
ARTICLE 14 - HOLIDAYS
14.01	DESIGNATED PLANT HOLIDAYS
The following will be paid plant holidays:
New Year's Day Victoria Day Labour Day Remembrance Day Boxing Day
Good Friday Canada Day Thanksgiving Day Christmas Day
In addition to the above holidays, one additional statutory holiday, if proclaimed by the Federal or Provincial Government will be treated as a paid holiday.
Unless mutually agreed otherwise between the parties herein, two additional paid holidays between Boxing Day and New Year's Day will be selected by the Company following a discussion with the Union.
If an employee has worked six months in the previous twelve (12) months he/she will receive one floater on their return from layoff. If the employee has worked ten or more months in the previous 12 months they will receive two floaters on their return from layoff.
14.02	HOLIDAY PAY
All regular employees shall receive holiday pay at their regular hourly rate for the number of hours in their normal work day.
For employees on a 12 hour, 7 day shift schedule, the holiday pay will be 12 hours when the holidays fall on a regularly scheduled day. For employees who are off on their regular days off, attempts will be made to allocate a day prior to or immediately after the holiday as a designated holiday. Employees working on their designated holiday will be paid according to the provisions in Article 14.04. Holidays will begin at 8:00 am on the day of the holiday and end at 8:00 am on the day after the holiday to accommodate the present 12 hour, 7 day shift schedule.
14.03	QUALIFYING FOR HOLIDAY PAY
In order to be entitled to payment for a plant holiday, an employee must have worked his scheduled full working day immediately preceding the holiday and his scheduled full working day immediately following the holiday unless a reason acceptable to the Human Resources Director is given. The use of a sick day, as per Article 11.05, before or after a plant holiday is a reasonable excuse.
42
14.04 WORK ON A HOLIDAY
If an employee is required to work on one of the above-mentioned plant holidays, he shall receive payment at the rate of time and one-half his regular hourly rate for the hours actually worked by him in addition to receiving his holiday pay. Stationary Engineers II who work on Christmas Day will receive payment at the rate of two times their regular hourly rate for the hours actually worked on this holiday.
14.05 HOLIDAY ON VACATION/DAY OF REST
When any of the said holidays falls on a day of an employee's vacation or on an employee's day off, the Company may pay the employee the holiday pay to which he may be entitled or give the employee a day off in lieu thereof, at a time mutually convenient to the Company and the employee or majority of employees when more than one employee is affected.
ARTICLE 15 - VACATIONS
15.01	VACATION DAYS
Length of employee vacation in a given year shall be in accordance with the following schedule:
(a)	Seniority of less than one (1) year as of May 31 = the equivalent of one 8-hour day per month of service, up to a maximum of two (2) weeks.
(b)	Seniority in excess	of one (1) year as of May 31= two (2) weeks.
(c)	Seniority in excess	of five (5) years as of May 31= three (3) weeks.
(d)	Seniority in excess	of twelve (12) years as of May 31 = four (4) weeks.
(e)	Seniority in excess	of twenty (20) years as of May 31= five (5) weeks.
15.02	VACATION PAY RATES
Annual vacation pay shall be in accordance with the following schedule:
(a)	Up to five years seniority at May 31= 4% of total earnings.
(b)	Five years seniority up to twelve years at May 31= 6% of total earnings.
(c)	Twelve years seniority up to twenty years at May 31 = 8% of total earnings.
(d)	Twenty years or more at May 31 = 10% of total earnings.
43
15.03	VACATION PAY BASE
(a)	Vacation pay shall be based on earned wages including vacation pay for the previous fifty-two (52) week period closest to May 31 provided the employee had worked during that fifty-two (52) week period.
(b)	An employee will receive vacation accrual for approved absence for reason of illness or accident or while absent on Apprenticeship Training, calculated at the appropriate percentage stated in Article 15.02 times the pay that the employee would have received during the period of absence at the straight time rate without premiums.
(c)	An employee absent for more than four (4) months between June 1 and May 31 will be entitled to his regular vacation pay in percentage of actual earnings only, except when the absence is due to Pregnancy Leave.
(d)	At minimum every employee shall receive eighty percent (80%) vacation accrual (based on a normal forty hour work week) provided the lost time was due to lack of work in their area.
15.04	VACATION SCHEDULING
Vacation scheduling will be based on a selection process that recognizes seniority as a pre-determining factor. Such application of seniority rights in choosing vacation dates will be exercised prior to April 1 st.
Employees will be given the opportunity, by order of seniority to schedule up to three (3) weeks of vacation at a time, with consideration to operational requirements. Once every employee has been given this opportunity the employees with more than three (3) weeks of vacation entitlement, by order of seniority, will be permitted to schedule the remaining weeks of vacation, with consideration to operational requirements.
This will confirm the discussion and understanding of the parties during negotiations regarding “bundling” of classifications and the normal sequence followed for vacation allocation within departments.
With respect to “bundling” of classifications it is understood that “bundling” is appropriate for related jobs. With respect to the normal sequence for vacation allocation within departments, the sequence shall be: by employee per classification per shift per department.
An adjustment period, from April 1st to April 30th will be used to resolve any conflicting vacation requests and to finalize the vacation schedule. Additional vacation requests will not be permitted during this adjustment period. Any requests after this
44
adjustment period will be on a first come first serve basis with consideration to operational requirements. Once the vacation schedule has been finalized trading of vacation time between employees shall not be permitted.
A joint Company and Union committee will meet at least sixty (60) days prior to April 1st to review operational requirements as they relate to vacation scheduling and to discuss and make recommendations on any issue that may facilitate the vacation scheduling process.
For employees with a fourth or fifth week of vacation, these weeks may be taken at a time mutually satisfactory to the Company and the employee. Employees with a fourth and fifth week of vacation, may be permitted to take any portion of their fourth or fifth weeks in periods of not less than one half day durations provided the vacation time is at a time mutually satisfactory to the Company and the Employee.
If a plant shutdown is scheduled employees will take their vacation during the plant shutdown. Employees with 2 weeks vacation or less will have the option of taking one week’s vacation at an alternate time. A notice of such a shutdown will be posted before April 1st. Exceptions will be made in the case of employees required for maintenance and those requested to work in other areas on a voluntary basis. In these cases, preference will be given to employees with the greatest seniority in scheduling vacations outside the shutdown period, provided the employee advised his intent at least one month before the requested vacation date.
15.05	VACATION/WORK OPTION
For employees having more than two weeks of vacation entitlement, the Company agrees to allow employees to work a third, fourth and/or fifth week of vacation at their regular rates of pay, including overtime and premiums. The employees must declare their intention to sell their full or partial third, fourth and/or fifth weeks of vacation and be paid on the pay period when the employee has his next vacation week scheduled.
All employees must take a minimum of 2 weeks from June 1st to May 31 st.
ARTICLE 16 - OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY
16.01 ACCIDENT PREVENTION
(a) Both parties hereto will co-operate to the fullest extent reasonably possible
toward the prevention of accidents and the promotion of safety and health of the employees of the Company. It is hereby agreed that it shall be the duty of the employees to make use of all reasonable protective devices and equipment made available by the Company.
45
(b) All new employees shall have a minimum of eight (8) hours of orientation and Health and Safety training before commencing work on the plant floor. All current employees shall receive health and safety training yearly. All education and training shall be given by employees, members of management or an outside contractor approved by the JOHSC. All education and training shall be coordinated by the Environmental Health and Safety Coordinator based on the needs determined within the Occupational Health and Safety Act and recommendations from JOHSC.
16.02	INJURY ON DUTY
An employee who is injured on duty, should such an injury necessitate the employee leaving the plant for medical treatment during his authorized work period, shall be paid the wages to which he would have been entitled, had he worked the entire authorized work period, provided the injury necessitates that the employee remain off work for the remainder of that shift. Should the injury result in the employee being off for more than one shift, the Company shall pay for any loss of wages incurred from the time of the injury until Worker’s Compensation payments begin.
It is also understood that if the claim is not approved by WCB, the employee will reimburse the Company for any advances or overpayments, beyond the day of injury.
The repayment schedule to be mutually agreed upon between the Union and the Company. Reimbursement through payroll deduction, will begin on the second pay following their return to work.
16.03	SAFETY COMMITTEE/MEETINGS
The Company and the Union agree to establish a Joint Occupational Health & Safety Committee (JOHSC), departmental safety meetings, and shift safety representatives.
The JOHSC shall consist of six (6) members elected or appointed by the Union and six (6) members elected or appointed by the Company. The Environmental Health & Safety Coordinator (in his/her absence the HR Director) and the Union Safety Chair shall be permanent members and Co-Chairs of the JOHSC. The JOHSC shall meet the first Wednesday of every month or more often if needed. The purpose of the JOHSC shall be to point out hazardous conditions and actions, recommend corrective action, and to monitor and regulate if necessary the speed with which such action is implemented.
Departmental Safety meetings shall be a 1/2 hour safety talk for each shift in each department in the plant. These departmental meetings shall take place each month and be run by the Environmental Health & Safety Coordinator. Departmental meetings will be attended by all employees in the plant.
46
Shift safety representatives will be appointed by the Union or elected by each shift in each department. Shift safety representatives are available for employees in their department to bring forward any safety concerns to their Supervisor.
16.04	SAFETY ASSURANCE
All employees shall identify unsafe conditions and work with supervision to have those unsafe conditions addressed. Those employees trained in lockout and tag-out are empowered to shut down, isolate, and/or lock out equipment when such equipment is deemed unsafe to operate and could create a safety hazard for themselves or their coworkers. Employees must also take the necessary steps, with the assistance of supervision, to have this unsafe equipment repaired. Any such equipment shall not be returned to service until repaired or otherwise made safe.
16.05	RIGHT TO REFUSE UNSAFE WORK
If an employee exercises their right to refuse work because they reasonably believe that the act is likely to endanger the employee’s health or safety or the health and safety of any other person:
1.	They must immediately inform their supervisor, or if their supervisor is not available, they must advise the covering supervisor or shift leader about their refusal and the reason they feel that the work is not healthy or safe.
2.	The supervisor and the shift safety representative or an employee member of the JOHSC shall conduct an investigation into the reason for the refusal.
3.	If the investigation provides corrective action to the employee’s satisfaction then the refusal has ended and the appropriate paperwork will be filled out and sent to the following persons: JOHSC Co-chairs (OH&S Manager and Union Safety Officer), Supervisor, Unit chair, JOHSC, and Employee.
4.	If the investigation does not result in corrective action to the employee’s satisfaction then the refusal will be written out and signed by the supervisor and the employee refusing work and the JOHSC co-chairs will be notified within 24 hours.
(a)	At this time the employee may be re-assigned to alternate work at their regular pay and benefits and the employee must accept re-assignment. If no alternate work is available the employee will be sent home with full pay and benefits.
(b)	The Company agrees that there shall be no discriminatory action taken against an employee who has made such a refusal.
47
(c)	If the supervisor asks another employee to do the work that was refused, they must inform that employee that someone else has refused the work, the reason they refused the work and that they also have the right to refuse the work.
5.	A subcommittee of the JOHSC consisting of at least one (1) management member and one (1) employee member shall investigate the refusal immediately, or ensure that a professional investigation is conducted. The subcommittee shall communicate their findings to the JOHSC.
6.	If the JOHSC unanimously agrees with the investigation findings of the subcommittee they will advise the employee of their decision.
7.	If the JOHSC unanimously agrees that the refusal is valid they will recommend corrective action to have the refusal resolved.
8.	If the subcommittee or the JOHSC cannot reach a unanimous decision on the refusal or the employee is not satisfied, the employee must contact a Health and Safety officer with the Department of Labour.
9.	The Health and Safety Officer with the Department of Labour will investigate the refusal and notify the employee and employer of their decision.
10.	When a resolution has been reached all appropriate paper work must be completed by the JOHSC co-chairs and distributed to the proper individuals. (Supervisor, Unit Chair, JOHSC, and employee)
11.	The employee that had the refusal may accompany all physical inspections.
12.	The foregoing shall not be construed as to supersede or invalidate the provisions of the Nova Scotia Occupational Health and Safety Act. 1996. c.7.
16.06	RETURN TO WORK
Both parties hereto will cooperate to the fullest extent toward the safe and early return to work of employees absent from work due to work related accidents, illnesses, and nonoccupational accidents. It is hereby agreed that it shall be the duty of the employees to willingly participate in the Company's Return to Work Program and initiatives. All employees have the right to have Union representation in the return to work process.
A list of employees who are on the Return to Work Program or who have modified duties will be provided to the Chairperson of the Grievance Committee.
48
16.07 UNION SAFETY EDUCATION
The Company may grant leave of absence without pay to employees identified by the Union Executive for the purpose of attending safety education courses sponsored by the Union. Such leave may be granted provided that the number of employees released at any one time does not exceed ten (10) and provided that reasonable notice is given, and also provided that there will be no adverse effect on operating requirements and the duration of requests and the frequency of requests are reasonable.
16.08	SAFETY SHOES
The Company agrees to reimburse employees, with valid receipts up to one hundred twenty five dollars ($125.00) per pair, per employee, per year towards the purchase of safety shoes that meet Company specifications and that are purchased from a recognized industrial Safety Shoe supplier or manufacturer and which are regularly worn by such employee. The Union will cooperate with the Company in assuring that employees follow the policy regarding the wearing of safety shoes.
An employee must have been in the employ of the Company for at least six months before he qualifies for a safety shoe reimbursement.
The safety shoe reimbursement shall be $125.00 per year or $250.00 for two years time since the date of the last safety shoe purchase.
The Company will post a listing in each department of the employees’ next reimbursement date every three (3) months.
16.09	ENVIRONMENTAL MEASUREMENTS
The Joint Occupational Health & Safety Committee will be responsible for determining the need to take environmental measurements. The Company will designate three members and the Union will appoint or elect three members to form a committee to monitor such testing. Whenever a test or measurement is conducted, it will be done by at least one member of the Company Committee and one member of the Union Committee. Testing equipment acquired at a reasonable cost to the Company as well as any procedural methods or standards must be certified by either Canadian or United States Governmental authorities.
16.10	UNION SAFETY OFFICER
The Union Safety Co-Chair shall be allocated a minimum of eight (8) hours per week at his/her regular hourly rate to address health and safety issues on behalf of the Union. The allocation of hours shall be increased in weeks in which the Occupational Health and Safety
49
Coordinator is absent due to vacation or illness or when the Occupational Health and Safety Coordinator has assigned projects or additional work to the Union Safety Co-Chair.
When the Occupational Health and Safety Coordinator position is being filled, a panel of representatives from the JOSHC, from the Union and the Company, will be appointed to oversee the selection process and make recommendations.
16.11	LOCKOUT PROCEDURE/NO HAND IN DIE
The Company and Union will jointly maintain a Lockout Policy and Program that conforms to CAW and Tandus policies and complies with provincial regulations.
ARTICLE 17 - ALLOCATION OF WORK
17.01	CONTRACTING OUT
The Company has in the past and may continue at its discretion to allocate certain work to outside suppliers from time to time. These management decisions will only be taken after due consideration to the efficient operation of the business and the personal welfare and job security of any employee affected.
Except in the case of an emergency, the Company will give the Union at least seven (7) days advance notice in writing of any work within the plant performed under this Contracting Out clause. This notice will include the nature and scope of the work to be done as well as the expected duration.
Contractors engaged by the Company shall be certified joumeypersons, however such contractors shall not be precluded from using non-joumeyperson status helpers.
Outside contractors are not intended to be used to replace full-time joumeypersons, however, they may be used to supplement staff while the Company is in the process of filling any joumeyperson vacancy. If after three (3) months, the Company is unable to fill the position through hiring, the position will be posted through the Apprenticeship Program (Appendix “C”).
17.02	ASSIGNMENT OF WORK
The Company agrees that members of Supervision and Staff shall not perform work which is assigned to members of the bargaining unit. Exceptions may be made in situations dealing with items such as emergencies, safety, training, and development work. Development work, shall be defined as experimental work which when completed will become part of the existing bargaining unit work.
50
ARTICLE 18 - STRIKES AND LOCKOUTS
18.01	NO WORK STOPPAGE
In view of the orderly procedures established by this Agreement for the settling of disputes and handling of grievances, the Union agrees that, during the life of this Agreement, there will be no strike, picketing, slow-down or stoppage of work, either complete or partial, and the Company agrees that there will be no lockout. In the event of an illegal strike, picketing, slow-down or stoppage of work, the Union will actively assist the Company in quickly ending such action.
18.02	STRIKE DISCIPLINE
The Company shall have the right to discipline employees who take part in or instigate any strike, picketing, stoppage or slow-down contrary to the provisions of the Trade Union Act or this Agreement.
ARTICLE 19 - WAGES
19.01	HOURLY WAGE RATES
Effective July 1, 2012, all current wage rates listed in Appendix A were increased by two percent (2.0%) and payable retroactively from date of signing. Effective July 1, 2013, all current wage rates listed in Appendix A were increased by two and one quarter percent (2.25%). Effective July 1,2014, all current wage rates listed in Appendix A were increased by two and one half percent (2.5%).
19.02	WAGE PROGRESSION
(a)	An employee promoted from one job classification to another job classification within the same labour group will retain the same pay throughout the training period of the new job.
(b)	An employee promoted from one job classification to another job classification immediately above his present labour group will continue at the rate of pay of his former job for a period of four (4) weeks and then progress to the standard rate for his new job. However, an employee who has previously held the new job classification through the job posting procedure or has completed the training program as per Article 10.16 (a) shall receive the standard rate for the new job upon transfer provided the employee is qualified to perform the job without training.
(c)	An employee promoted to a job classification which is in a labour group more than one labour group above his present job classification, will continue at his
51
present rate for four (4) weeks, then progress to the rate of pay of the next labour group. He will then be paid at the rate of that group for a period of four (4) weeks and for any other subsequent group rate for a period of four (4) weeks until he reaches his new group rate. For an employee promoted from a group 1 to a group 3 job would, for example, be paid the group 1 rate for four (4) weeks, then the group 2 rate for four (4) weeks and then the standard rate of his new job. However, an employee who has previously held the new job classification through the job posting procedure shall receive the standard rate for the new job upon transfer provided the employee is qualified to perform the job without training.
(d)	An employee who, through the job posting procedure, takes a job classification that is in a labour group lower than his present labour group, will be paid the appropriate rate of the new job immediately upon commencing work in the position.
(e)	A probationary employee will be paid $0.25 below the group 1 rate for the length of his probationary period. Progression after that date will be the same as it would be for a permanent employee if the new employee holds a job above group 1. This will not be the case if the new employee holds a license that is required for his job. Employees such as skilled trades who are newly hired will be paid $0.25 below their appropriate rate for the length of their probationary period.
19.03	TRAINING PREMIUM
(a)	A training premium of one dollar ($ 1.00) per hour for a minimum of four hours will be paid to any employee selected to train another employee for all hours during which the employee is directly engaged in the initial training activity approved by supervision.
(b)	Training premiums are payable only to employees specifically requested to train and are not payable in cases where training is part of the normal job requirement and is reflective in the wages.
19.04	WORKERS' COMPENSATION / WEEKLY INDEMNITY
For employees on Workers' Compensation or Weekly Indemnity, the Company agrees to advance if requested by the employee, and provided the administrative procedure is followed, benefits equivalent to those that would be received from the Workers' Compensation Board, or under the Weekly Indemnity Plan, until the benefits are received by the employee at which time the Company will be reimbursed by the employee. It is also understood that if the claim is not approved by the insurer the employee will reimburse the Company for any advances or overpayments.
52
The repayment schedule to be mutually agreed upon between the Union and the Company. Reimbursement through payroll deductions, will begin on the second pay following their return to work.
In order to qualify for this benefit, an employee must have at least two (2) years of seniority.
19.05	STATIONARY ENGINEERS
It is understood that the operators of the Boilers and related equipment may work abnormal schedules. For the "Winter Schedule" coverage is for the entire seven days in a week. Currently, operators work an average of 42 hours per week in a 4 week cycle. For this schedule, overtime will be paid at the rate of one and one half (1 'A) times the regular hourly rate for the hours worked over an average of 40 per week during the cycle. For the "Summer Schedule" which is normally a five day 40 hour schedule, overtime will be as per Article 13.04 and 13.05.
19.06	SHIFT LEADERS
(a)	Employees designated by the Company to work as a Shift Leader in charge of a departmental shift, in the temporary absence of a supervisor, shall be paid a premium of two dollars ($2.00) per hour above his regular rate. The designated shift leaders will be treated as temporarily transferred under Article 10.14 (c).
(b)	The Company will notify the departments of the intention to select a new shift leader. It is understood that the Company shall have the right to make the selection based on ability giving due regard to seniority of employees who have expressed an interest. The Company may from time to time designate alternate Shift Leaders in order to give other interested employees an opportunity to demonstrate their ability.
(c)	Except for the first (initial) full shift the Shift Leader shall not do any bargaining unit work. For part shifts or part overtime shifts the Shift Leader will do his own work plus the Shift Leader work. At no time will the Shift Leader be involved in discipline.
(d)	All employees who are required to do shift leader work according to their job description will be trained in all aspects of the shift leaders job.
53
19.07	MATERNITY / PARENTAL LEAVE
An employee who has been employed for a period of at least six (6) months is entitled to unpaid matemity/parental leave in accordance with the all Nova Scotia and Federal legislation with respect to maternity and parental leaves.
ARTICLE 20 - GENERAL
20.01	PENSION / BENEFITS
The Company agrees to keep the pension and benefits in force for the life of this Agreement. Those programs are detailed in booklets which are available to all employees. No changes to the employee benefit program will be made without consultation and participation of the Union during the entire process. Each employee will be advised of the annual pension contribution and the amount of pension contributions accumulated to date at the end of each year.
The Company agrees, subject to Pension Plan regulations, that no pension payout shall be made to a terminated employee pending the outcome of his dismissal grievance/arbitration.
Employees who retire at the age of 60 or over will be allowed to continue to participate in the group health insurance program until reaching the age of 65 in the same manner as other permanent employees, at the same premium cost-share arrangement that was in effect at the date of their retirement.
The weekly indemnity plan will be registered with the Employment Insurance Commission in accordance with the Unemployment Insurance Act and any reduction paid in accordance with this Act will belong entirely to the Company in view of the other advantages awarded.
The Company will pay the Union’s Advisory Pension Committee member’s wages for training, provided the training is mutually agreed to between the Company and the Union and that it takes place in Truro, Nova Scotia.
54
20.02	TOOL ALLOWANCE
The Company agrees to provide a tool allowance for tradesmen and fixers on a prorated yearly bases provided such tools are required for their job. Tools may be purchased as needed during the year and the value will be deducted from the following allowances:
Mechanics	$160
Electricians	$110
Pipe Fitters	$110
Technicians/Technical Specialist	$160
Fixers/Textile Fixers/Fixer Lead hand	$ 90
Asst. Overhaulers/Mechanic II/Maintenance Helper $ 90 Carpenters	$110
Overhaulers	$110
General Repairer	$ 75
It is understood that an employee in the above classifications will own his tools and if said employee ceases employment, then the tools are his to remove.
Employees are required to submit receipts for reimbursement.
20.03	CLOTHING ALLOWANCE
The Company will provide a clothing allowance of one hundred dollars ($100.00) per year in the following occupations:
Carpenter
Electrician
Fixer
General Repairer
Janitor
Overhauler
Industrial Mechanic Latex Floor Operator Latex Operator I Latex Operator II PD Latex Shear Operator PD Sample Developer
Stationary Engineer
Steam/Pipefitter
Storesman
Technical Specialist
Technician
Senior Dye Weigher
20.04	LICENSE RENEWALS
The Company will reimburse employees for the renewal fees of their trade certificate provided these certificates are required in the exercise of their occupation.
55
ARTICLE 21 - DURATION
21.01 EXPIRATION DATE
This Agreement comes into effect on July 1,2012 and shall remain in effect until June 30, 2015 at which time it shall automatically be subject to renewal year to year thereafter unless either party requests the negotiations of a new Agreement by giving written notice to the other party not less than sixty (60) calendar days and not more than ninety (90) calendar days prior to the expiration date of this Agreement or any renewal date thereafter.
In Witness Whereof, the parties have caused this Agreement to be executed this 29th day of August 2012.
FOR THE COMPANY
56
WAGE SCHEDULE
APPENDIX "A”
Group
Job Classification	Level	July 1/12	July 1/13	July 1/14
DEPARTMENT: YARN	MILL			
Service Operator - Yam	2	14.84	15.17	15.55
Winder Service Op.	3	15.09	15.43	15.81
PD Yam Operator	4	15.37	15.72	16.11
Yam Operator	5	15.66	16.01	16.41
Fixer	8	16.72	17.09	17.52
Yam Inventory Controller	8	16.72	17.09	17.52
Textile Fixer	8	18.29	18.70	19.17
Overhauler	8	18.81	19.23	19.71
Yam Mill Leader	8	20.07	20.53	21.04
Technician - Yam	8	24.31	24.85	25.47
DEPARTMENT: CARPET MANUFACTURING
Creeler - CMF	2
Service Operator	2
Burler	2
Weaver	5
Beamer Op. - CMF	5
Machine Op. - Tufting	5
Weaver I	6
General Repairer	6
Beamer/Tufter Op.	6
Fixer-CMF	8
Weekend Fixer - CMF	8
T extile F ixer — CMF	8
Off Loom Inspector	8
Technician - CMF	8
Tufting Specialist	8
DEPARTMENT: DYEHOUSE
Dye Machine Operator	5
Senior Dye Weigher	8
Lab Tech I - Dyehouse	8
14.84	15.17	15.55
14.84	15.17	15.55
14.84	15.17	15.55
15.66	16.01	16.41
15.66	16.01	16.41
15.66	16.01	16.41
15.94	16.30	16.71
15.94	16.30	16.71
15.94	16.30	16.71
16.72	17.09	17.52
16.72	17.09	17.52
18.29	18.70	19.17
17.64	18.03	18.48
21.58	22.07	22.62
23.75	24.28	24.89
15.66	16.01	16.41
16.72	17.09	17.52
17.54	17.94	18.39
57
WAGE SCHEDULE
APPENDIX "A”
Job Classification	Group Level	July 1/09	July 1/10	July 1/11
DEPARTMENT: FINISHING Carpet Repairer 2		14.84	15.17	15.55
Service Operator - Finishing	3	15.09	15.43	15.81
Latex Floor Operator	4	15.37	15.72	16.11
Utility Operator	4	15.37	15.72	16.11
Relief Operator	6	15.94	16.30	16.71
Lift/Wrap Operator	6	15.94	16.30	16.71
Mender/Inspector	6	15.94	16.30	16.71
Shear Operator	6	15.94	16.30	16.71
Final Inspector	6	15.94	16.30	16.71
Latex Operator II	6	15.94	16.30	16.71
Dryer Operator I	6	15.94	16.30	16.71
Compound Operator	7	16.28	16.65	17.06
Repair Inspector	7	16.28	16.65	17.06
Latex Operator I	8	17.54	17.94	18.39
Dryer/Woven Oven Leader	8	17.54	17.94	18.39
Repair Inspector/Mending	8	20.07	20.53	21.04
Leadhand DEPARTMENT: NATIONAL SERVICE CENTRE				
Service Operator	1	14.56	14.88	15.25
Utility Operator	2	14.84	15.17	15.55
Lift/Wrap Operator	5	15.66	16.01	16.41
Lift Truck Op./ Inventory	6	15.94	16.30	16.71
Computer/Filing Clerk	6	15.94	16.30	16.71
Lift Truck Operator I	6	15.94	16.30	16.71
Final Inspector	6	15.94	16.30	16.71
Repair Inspector	7	16.28	16.65	17.06
NSC Yam Inventory Controller	7	16.28	16.65	17.06
Shipper/Receiver	8	17.82	18.22	18.68
Forklift Leader	8	17.82	18.22	18.68
58
WAGE SCHEDULE
APPENDIX "A"
Group
Job Classification	Level July 1/09 July 1/10 July 1/11
DEPARTMENT: QUALITY ASSURANCE / PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT
P.D. Sample Support	1
P.	D. Yam Inventory Controller	5
Process Technician	5
Q.	P.C. Tech. I	5
P.D. Service Technician	5
P.D. Technician	6
P.D. Latex & Shear Operator	6
P.D. Sample Developer	7
14.56	14.88	15.25
15.66	16.01	16.41
15.66	16.01	16.41
15.66	16.01	16.41
15.66	16.01	16.41
15.94	16.30	16.71
15.94	16.30	16.71
16.28	16.65	17.06
DEPARTMENT: MAINTENANCE
Janitor	1
Maintenance Helper	4
Stores Attendant	8
Stationary Eng. Ill	8
Steam/Pipefitter	8
Carpenter	8
Industrial Mechanic	8
Electrician	8
Stationary Eng. II	8
14.56	14.88	15.25
15.37	15.72	16.11
16.55	16.93	17.35
23.38	23.90	24.50
24.67	25.42	26.26
24.67	25.42	26.26
24.67	25.42	26.26
24.67	25.42	26.26
25.69	26.27	26.93
NOTE:	Stationary Engineer with 2nd Class Refrigeration - +$ 1.00.
NOTE 2:	Effective July 1,2012, the Steam/Pipefitter, Carpenter, Machinist,
Industrial Mechanic, and Electrician classifications shall receive an additional $0.20 per hour per year for three (3) years after adding the general wage increase.
59
Specialized Classification Training Program Appendix “B”
A.	Purpose
The purpose of the Specialized Classification Training Program (“Training Program”) is to provide employees with the training and competencies required for specialized classifications at Crossley Carpet Mills in a consistent and effective manner.
B.	General Principles
-	The Joint Training Committee will define the period of training and the training content for each specialized classification.
-	It is understood that this Training Program is dynamic and can be modified to reflect new training requirements.
-	It is understood that while the Joint Training Committee can recommend Training Program content and changes to the Training Program, the final decision on these matters is the sole responsibility of the Company.
C.	Specialized Classifications Defined
Specialized classifications are jobs that require a specific skill set and/or training not readily available in the internal or external workforce. The following are considered specialized classifications:
-	Tufting Specialist
-	Technician - Yam Mill
-	Technical Specialist - CMF
-	Lab Tech I
-	Latex Operator I
-	Repair Inspector/Mending Leadhand
It is recognized that this list can be modified to reflect changing Company needs. It is agreed that this list may only be modified by recommendation from the Joint Training Committee (refer to Section D). The Company must approve any changes to the above list recommended by the Joint Training Committee before these changes will take effect.
60
D.	Joint Training Committee
The Joint Training Committee (“Committee”) will be comprised of an equal number of Company and Union representatives not to exceed four (4) from each group. The Committee will meet once every six (6) weeks unless otherwise agreed. The Committee’s responsibilities will be:
-	Recommend the training course period, content, curriculum, and syllabus for each classification listed in Section C.
-	Ensure each prospective candidate for the Training Program is given a full understanding of the candidate’s responsibilities, obligations, and benefits when entering the Training Program.
-	Accept or reject applicants for the Training Program subject to final approval by the Human Resources Department of the Company.
-	Hear and decide on questions involving employees that relate to their participation in the Training Program.
-	Offer constructive suggestions for the improvement of training on the job.
-	Review the supervisor’s monthly report on each employee in the Training Program.
E.	Application and Entry
Employees interested in enrolling in the Training Program will submit an application to the Human Resources Department.
i)	Testing
The Committee may determine that applicants must write and pass test(s) as part of the application process. These tests must be relevant to the classification and must be reviewed and recommended by the Committee before being used in the application process. The Committee will review all test results before making a recommendation concerning an applicant’s potential entry into the Training Program.
ii)	Training Agreement
Once an employee has been selected to enter the Training Program, he or she will sign a Training Agreement developed by the Committee and approved by the Company. The Agreement will include:
-	A statement of the employee’s duties and responsibilities in regards to participating in the Training Program.
-	A syllabus of the training, including courses, length of the Training Program, etc.
61
-	A list of related training costs (e.g. academic course fees) that will be paid for by the Company, provided that certain conditions are met.
-	A statement where the employee agrees to a commitment to remain in the classification he or she was trained in for a minimum period of time after the Training Program has concluded.
-	A statement outlining the implications if the conditions of the Training Agreement are not fulfilled (e.g. reimbursing the Company for course fees).
F.	Supervision of Trainees
Employees in the Training Program will be under the direction of the supervisor of the department to which they are assigned. The Chairperson, or an individual charged with this responsibility in consultation with the Committee, will prepare adequate record forms to be filled in by the supervisor under whom the trainee receives direction, instruction and experience. Supervisors will make a report at least every thirty (30) days to the Chairperson on the work and progress of the trainee under their supervision.
These reports will be submitted to the Committee for review.
G.	Academic Training
Trainees may be required as a condition of their training to receive and attend classroom instructions at a technical or similar school. The Company shall assume all costs for tuition, books, and other classroom-related costs.
H.	Hours of Work
Trainees will work the same hours and be subject to the same conditions regarding overtime rates as other hourly employees working for the Company. In the case a trainee is required to work overtime, he or she will receive credit on the term of training for only the actual hours of work.
I.	Wages
For all Specialized Classification the trainee will be paid as per the wage progression outlined in the Collective Agreement. Hours spent in classroom instruction shall not be considered hours of work in computing overtime.
62
J.	Completion of Training
At the conclusion of the trainee’s training, the Committee must be satisfied that the trainee has successfully completed all aspects of his or her curriculum and has obtained the skills and competencies required to perform in the classification trained for. If the Committee is satisfied, the trainee will then be awarded the position he or she trained for once a position becomes available in the classification.
63
APPRENTICESHIP PROGRAM Appendix “C”
APPLICATION
~ Application for Apprenticeship will be received by the Human Resources Department of the Company from applicants considering themselves eligible under the program of training. The Joint Apprenticeship Committee will review these applications of prospective apprentices; however it is understood that the final selection and hiring of the apprentices is the sole responsibility of the Company.
APPRENTICESHIP ELIGIBILITY REQUIREMENTS
~ In order to be eligible for apprenticeship under these standards the applicant must meet the following qualifications:
(1)	Must possess a high school diploma or equivalent.
(2)	Must have successfully completed the Company’s probationary period
Exceptions to these requirements may be made by the Company upon the recommendation of the Committee for applicants who have unusual qualifications.
It is understood that all applicants must successfully pass the Company’s regular employment requirements.
CREDIT FOR PREVIOUS EXPERIENCE
~ At the discretion of the Committee, credit for prior experience in the applicable Trade may be given after evaluation. Review will be made after the completion of the apprentice’s probationary period.
PROBATIONARY PERIOD
- The first 500 hours of employment for every apprentice shall be a probationary period. During this probationary period the Company may only cancel the apprenticeship agreement with an apprentice after advising the Committee. The registration agencies shall be advised of such cancellations.
The employee will only be permitted to post out of the apprenticeship agreement within this probationary period, provided that he or she has completed at least one (1) classroom session. If a classroom session has not been scheduled within the probationary period, the employee may post out of the apprenticeship agreement once he or she has attended one (1) classroom session.
HOURS OF WORK
~ Apprentices shall work the same hours and be subject to the same conditions regarding overtime rates as the joumeypeople employed by the Company. In case an apprentice is required to work overtime he shall receive credit on the term of apprenticeship for only the actual hours of work. Apprentices may work overtime hours providing that the proper ratio of apprentices to joumeypeople established by these standards is maintained.
64
DISCIPLINE
~ The Committee shall have the authority to recommend discipline and/or cancellation of the apprenticeship agreement of the apprentice to the Company at any time for cause such as:
(1)	Inability to learn
(2)	Unreliability
(3)	Unsatisfactory work
(4)	Lack of interest in his/her work or education
(5)	Improper conduct
(6)	Failure to attend classroom	instruction
WAGES
~ Apprentices in each of the Trades covered by these standards shall be paid a progressively increasing schedule of wages as follows:
1st 1,000 hours - not less than 75% of the joumeyperson’s wage rate.
2nd 1,000 hours - not less than 80% of the joumeyperson’s wage rate.
3rd 1,000 hours - not less than 85% of the joumeyperson’s wage rate.
4th 1,000 hours - not less than 85% of the joumeyperson’s wage rate.
5th 1,000 hours - not less than 90% of the joumeyperson’s wage rate.
6th 1,000 hours - not less than 90% of the joumeyperson’s wage rate.
7th 1,000 hours - not less than 95% of the joumeyperson’s wage rate.
8th 1,000 hours - not less than 95% of the joumeyperson’s wage rate.
~ The apprentice shall receive the same annual improvement factor and all cost of living increases that are accorded all other plant employees, where such contract provisions exist.
~ Hours spent in classroom instruction shall not be considered hours of work in computing overtime.
~ Apprentices who are given credit for previous experience shall be paid, upon receiving such credit, the wage rate for the period to which such credit advances them. This shall not be made retroactive.
~ When an apprentice has completed 8,000 hours of training and after recommendation for his joumeyperson’s certificate by the Committee, he is to receive not less than the minimum rate to skilled joumeyperson in the Trade to which he has served his apprenticeship provided an opening exists and he is selected for employment as a joumeyperson.
65
ACADEMIC TRAINING
~ Apprentices are required as a condition of apprenticeship to receive and attend classroom instructions at a technical or similar school. Credit for time spent in academic training is given in the calculation of the hours of apprenticeship served and shall be applied against the period total.
The Company shall assume all costs for tuition, books, and other classroom-related costs.
JOINT APPRENTICESHIP COMMITTEE
~ There is hereby established a Joint Apprenticeship Committee. This Committee shall be composed of four (4) members, two (2) representing the Company, and two (2) joumeyperson employees representing the Union.
~ The Chairperson shall be the Manager of Apprentices. The Committee shall meet once per month unless otherwise agreed. It shall be the duty of the Committee:
(1)	To see that each prospective apprentice is interviewed and impressed with the responsibilities he/she is about to accept as well as the benefits he/she will receive.
(2)	To accept or reject applicants for apprenticeship subject to final approval by the Human Resources Department of the Company.
(3)	To hear and decide on questions involving apprentices which relate to their apprenticeship.
(4)	To determine whether the apprentice’s scheduled wage increase shall be withheld in the event that he/she is delinquent in his/her progress.
(5)	To offer constructive suggestions for the improvement of training on the job.
(6)	To certify the names of graduate apprentices to the Registration Agencies and
recommend that a Certificate of Apprenticeship be awarded upon satisfactory completion	of the requirements of apprenticeship established herein. No
certificate will be issued by the Registration Agencies unless recommended by the Committee.
(7)	To review the Supervisor’s monthly report on each apprentice.
(8)	In general, to be responsible for the successful operation of the apprenticeship standards in the plant and the successful completion of the apprenticeship by the apprentices under these standards.
MANAGEMENT OF APPRENTICES
~ Apprentices shall be under the general direction of the Manager of Apprentices and under the immediate direction of the Supervisor of the department to which they are assigned. The Manager of Apprentices is authorized to move apprentices from one department to another, in accordance with the pre-determined schedule of work training. Where an apprentice is retained unavoidably on a scheduled work process for a period longer than the maximum time scheduled for such work processes, an explanation shall
66
be sent to the Manager of Apprentices who will place it before the Committee for their review at the next meeting.
~ The Manager of Apprentices or an individual charged with this responsibility in consultation with the Committee, shall prepare adequate record forms to be filled in by the Supervisor under whom the apprentice receives direction, instruction and experience. Supervisors shall make a report at least every thirty (30) days to the Manager of Apprentices on the work and progress of the apprentices under their supervision. These reports shall be submitted to the Committee for review.
APPRENTICESHIP AGREEMENT
~ “Apprenticeship Agreement” shall mean a written agreement between the Company and the person employed as an apprentice, which agreement shall be approved by the Manager of Apprentices and registered with the Registration Agencies.
~ The following shall receive copies of the apprenticeship agreement:
(1)	The Apprentice
(2)	The Company
(3)	The Committee
(4)	The Registration Agencies
(5)	The Skilled Trades Representative of the Local Union
(6)	The National Automobile, Aerospace, Transportation and General Workers Union of Canada (CAW-Canada)
CERTIFICATE OF COMPLETION OF APPRENTICESHIP
~ Upon completion of the apprenticeship under these Apprenticeship Standards, the Manager of Apprentices will recommend to the Industrial Training Branch, Nova Scotia Department of Labour, that a certificate, signifying completion of the apprenticeship, be issued to the apprentice. The Apprenticeship Branch, Nova Scotia Department of Labour, will issue no certificates unless recommended by the Committee.
67
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
LOA 1
Local 4612	January 5, 2007
CAW
Dear Sirs:
This will confirm the Agreement reached during negotiations that employees in the job classification of Fixer shall, upon successful completion of the second year of an Apprentice Millwright Program, be reclassified to the Textile Fixer job classification and paid the applicable job rate. To be eligible for this reclassification, the employee shall provide proof of successful completion of the second (2nd) year level of the Program.
Yours very truly,
Crossley Carpet Mills Limited Human Resources Manager
68
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
LOA 2
Local 4612	January 5,2007
CAW
Dear Sirs
1.	Benefit Plan
During 2001, employees shall continue to pay the current premium rate of $48.10 for family coverage (or $18.38 for single coverage), even though the rate should have been readjusted to $59.16 (or $22.76) under the previous premium cost sharing arrangement. Future premium increases in subsequent years shall be cost shared 50/50 and shall be added to the current rate of $48.10 (or $18.38). Reductions in premium rates shall only be cost shared 50/50 if the premiums decrease below the level they were at when the $48.10 (or $18.38) premium rate was originally set.
2.	Paid Education Leave
The Company will remit to the national office of the National Automobile, Aerospace, Transportation and General Workers Union of Canada (CAW-Canada), by cheque, equal sums of $1,750 on March 1, 2013, March 1,2014 and March 1, 2015.
3.	Social Justice Fund
The Company will remit to the national office of the National Automobile, Aerospace, Transportation and General Workers Union of Canada (CAW-Canada) $100 for the Social Justice Fund once a year, each year of the Collective Agreement.
4.	Collective Agreement Negotiations
The parties are committed to a timely and efficient handling of Collective Agreement renewal negotiations. In accordance with Article 21.01 renewal notice shall be given and negotiations shall commence no later than sixty (60) days prior to the contract expiry date.
69
5.
Pension Committee
The Company and the Union agree to reactivate the Pension Committee during the duration of this agreement. The Pension Committee shall meet within sixty (60) days of ratification of the collective agreement. Members of this committee agree to serve on the committee for a term consistent with the duration of the collective agreement. Meetings shall be held at least once every six (6) months. Appropriate training and information shall be provided to the committee members.
6.	Benefits Program
This will confirm agreement reached in negotiations that the Benefits Programs are compulsory unless an employee already has health and dental insurance coverage.
7.	Wage Replacement for Union Leave
The Company shall continue the wages and benefits for employees on authorized Union leave and the Company shall invoice the Local Union once a month for repayment.
70
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
LOA 3
Local 4612	January 5, 2007
CAW
Dear Sirs:
The Company agrees that during the term of this collective agreement there will be no part-time assignments established.
Yours truly,
Crossley Carpet Mills Ltd. Director, Human Resources
71
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
LOA 4
Local 4612
May 13,2009
CAW Dear Sirs:
Re:	Baseline Numbers
This will confirm the agreement reached during 2009 negotiations to establish baseline numbers for each classification. The Company agrees to accept the baseline numbers as presented by the Union and as set out below. Baseline numbers will be used to determine the maximum number of recalls per classification before the job posting procedure is implemented. The baseline number can only be changed upward due to job postings in excess of the baseline number. Human Resources shall maintain the baseline number list and shall inform the Unit Chairperson of any changes.
DEPARTMENT: YARN MILL
Job Description
Baseline Feb. 4/11
Service Op - Yam Winder Service Op Yam Operator
3 11 41
4 6 4 0 1 3 1
PD Yam Operator Fixer
Yam Inventory Contr.
Textile Fixer Overhauler
Yam Mill Leader Technician - Yam
DEPARTMENT: CARPET MANUFACTURING
Job Description
Baseline Feb. 4/11
Creeler CMF Service Operator Burler Weaver
22
6
2
7
DEPARTMENT: CARPET MANUFACTURING
Job Description	Baseline Feb. 4/11
Beamer Operator - CMF	33
Machine Operator- Tufting	32
Weaver I	2
General Repairer - CM	0
Beamer/T ufter Op.	17
Fixer-CMF	9
Textile Fixer - CMF	0
Off Loom Inspector	2
Technician - CM	2
Tufting Specialist	1
DEPARTMENT: DYEHOUSE
Job Description	Baseline Feb. 4/11
Dye Machine Operator	11
Senior Dye Weigher	6
PD Lab Tech. -1 - Dyehouse 5
DEPARTMENT: FINISHING
Job Description	Baseline Feb. 4/11
Carpet Repairer	1
Service Op. - Finishing	1
Latex Floor Op.	2
Utility Operator	1
Relief Operator	3
Lift / Wrap Op.	3
Mender / Inspector	4
Shear Operator	3
Final Inspector	2
Latex Op. II	3
Dryer Operator I	1
Compound Operator	1
Repair Inspector	2
Latex Op. I	3
Dryer/Woven Oven Leader	2
Repair / Inspector / Mending 1
73
DEPARTMENT: NATIONAL SERVICE CENTRE
Job Description	Baseline Feb. 4/11
Service Op.	1
Utility Operator	6
Lift / Wrap Operator	4
Lift Truck Op./Inv. Contr.	16
Computer / Filing Clerk	2
Lift Truck Op. I	4
Final Inspector	6
Repair Inspector	6
NSC Yam Inventory Contr.	1
Shipper / Receiver	4
Forklift Leader	4
DEPARTMENT: QUALITY ASSURANCE / PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT
Job Description	Baseline Feb. 4/11
PD Sample Support	3
PD Yam Inventory Contr.	1
Process Technician	3
Q.P.C. Tech. I	2
PD Service Technician	1
PD Technician	1
PD Latex & Shear Operator	1
PD Sample Developer	6
DEPARTMENT: MAINTENANCE
Job Description	Baseline Feb. 4/11
Janitor	3
Maintenance Helper	1
Stores Attendant	1
Stationary Eng. Ill	2
Steam / Pipefitter	0
Carpenter	1
Industrial Mechanic	5
Electrician	3
Stationary Eng. II - R	4
74
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
LOA 5
Local 4612	May 13,2009
CAW
Dear Sirs:
Re:	Umbrella Jobs
This will confirm the agreement reached during 2009 negotiations regarding umbrella jobs.
Using the definition for umbrella jobs as: a lower Group level job included in a job description in which an employee must be able to perform all aspects of that job on a regular basis as stipulated in the job description.
The parties undertake to conduct a joint review of each job classification for the purpose of establishing the umbrella jobs associated with each classification.
A list of jobs that fall under an umbrella will be clearly defined through mutual agreement between the Union and the Company and placed on all job descriptions.
Any job acquired under an umbrella job is automatically placed on an employee’s bumping list and as per Article 10.07 (d)(i) an employee will have fourteen days to sign off and return his notification; otherwise any new jobs will become the first possible bumps.
The joint review will take place within ninety (90) days following ratification of this agreement.
75
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
LOA 6
Local 4612	April 19, 2012
CAW
Dear Sirs:
Re:	Workplace Rights Committee Training
This will confirm the agreement reached during 2012 negotiations to establish Workplace Rights Committee training guidelines for existing members.
All current committee members will be provided with training within six (6) months of the signing of this agreement. If more than 50% of the Committee has no formal training, then the whole Committee will be trained. The Workplace Rights Committee will be consulted when determining training providers.
76
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
LOA 7
Local 4612	July 24, 2012
CAW
Dear Sirs:
Re:	Pension Plan
STAGE 1 - Transition of Existing Defined Benefit Plan to CWIPP
The parties agree, subject to the approval of the Nova Scotia and Ontario pension regulators, to transfer the Pension Plan for Hourly Paid Employees of Crossley Carpet Mills Limited ("the DB Plan"), to the Canada-Wide Industrial Pension Plan (“the CWIPP Plan”) in respect of active employees as at December 31,2012; and excluding those employees otherwise already terminated or entitled to retirement, disability or deferred pensions from the existing plan as at the transition date of December 31, 2012.
Both parties agree to continue their best efforts to realize a timely transfer of accrued benefits as well as the corresponding assets and liabilities under the DB plan to the CWIPP plan. The Company shall enter into a Participation Agreement consistent with this Letter to the satisfaction of the CWIPP Board of Trustees.
Subsequent to approval being granted by the relevant provincial regulators, and the associated transfer of assets and liabilities from the DB Plan to the CWIPP Plan being completed, the Company shall have no further liability for such pension deficits or plan administration beyond that set out in the CWIPP Participation Agreement for those employees affected.
The parties further agree to instruct CWIPP to design a receiving pension plan based on the CWIPP Quotation dated March 30, 2012 Option 2; including a benefit accrual rate of 1.4% of pensionable earnings (same as current DB) and allowing for an unreduced early retirement benefit (60/20) for future service.
The parties further agree that the existing employee contribution rate of 3.5% on earnings up to the YMPE, and 5.0% above the YMPE calculated and remitted weekly will be maintained, with the Company contributing the balance up to a rate of 5.5% of earnings. Any necessary funding beyond this level will be cost shared on a 50/50 split. The parties agree that such contribution rates shall remain constant for the remaining
77
duration of the contract term, unless otherwise amended by mutual agreement of the parties.
The parties further agree to jointly instruct CWIPP to convert past service benefits accrued under the DB Plan on an equitable basis under the CWIPP Plan. Future service benefits would be as provided under the CWIPP Plan consistent with the establishment of the benefit level under Article 4.03 of the CWIPP Plan.
The Company further agrees to transfer to the CWIPP plan such amount of assets as decided by the CWIPP Board commensurate with the liabilities associated with the recognition of past service accrued under the DB Plan as determined by the relevant actuarial valuation for the DB Plan. It is expressly agreed that the Company shall bear no greater risk than to transfer funds to CWIPP equal to the amount of funds necessary to make the DB Plan fully funded on a going concern basis in respect of transferred members only , subject to a minimum deficit top-up payment of $2.0 million in respect of funding any going concern deficit in the DB Plan. The DB Plan going concern basis for purposes of determining liabilities is that used in the most recent actuarial valuation of the DB Plan as at December 31,2010. The going concern asset valuation methodology for purposes of this valuation is straight market value of the Plan assets.
For clarity, recent actuarial projection estimates provided by the DB Plan actuary estimate an additional contribution of approximately $1.4 million dollars to be required to make the DB Plan fully funded on a going concern basis. In this case, the resulting deficit top-up contribution would be $2.0 million rather than $1.4 million dollars.
The parties shall request Eckler perform a calculation of the cost of recognizing all past service accrued under the DB plan as at the transition date, and should such calculation exceed the amounts agreed upon for transfer from the DB plan to the CWIPP plan, the Company and Union shall both be released from their respective obligations under Stage 1 of this Letter as set out above.
If the relevant approval by provincial regulators has not been rendered, including any amendment required to obtain such approval, by not later than one year from the transition date, the parties will proceed on the following alternative basis:
STAGE 2 - Defined Benefit Plan
Future benefit accrual under the Pension Plan for Hourly Paid Employees of Crossley Carpet Mills Limited ("the DB Plan") shall be frozen effective six (6) months from any notice of refusal by a provincial regulator or CWIPP Board decision to not approve the transfer; or at any point after one year from the transition date. All benefits earned until that date under the DB Plan shall be maintained within the DB pension plan but no further accrual of benefits or entry of new members shall occur.
78
Benefits accrued under the frozen DB Plan shall be paid to plan members in the normal manner upon each member's termination or retirement from the Company. All future service from the date the DB plan is frozen shall accrue with CWIPP; but shall be recognized and considered as credited service for purposes of entitlement under the DB plan.
New CWIPP Plan
The parties further agree to instruct CWIPP to design a receiving pension plan based on the CWIPP Quotation dated March 30, 2012 Option 2; including a benefit accrual rate of 1.4% of pensionable earnings (same as current DB) and allowing for an unreduced early retirement benefit (60/20) for future service.
The parties further agree that the existing employee contribution rate of 3.5% on earnings up to the YMPE, and 5.0% above the YMPE calculated and remitted weekly will be maintained, with the Company contributing the balance up to a rate of 5.5% of earnings. Any necessary funding beyond this level will be cost shared on a 50/50 split. The parties agree that such contribution rates shall remain constant for the remaining duration of the contract term, unless otherwise amended by mutual agreement of the parties.
Both the Company and Union agree to make their best efforts to ensure the feasibility and affordability of a transfer of accrued benefits as the corresponding assets and liabilities under the DB plan to the CWIPP plan on a go forward basis.
79
LETTER OF AGREEMENT
LOA 8
Local 4612	May 23,2012
CAW
Dear Sirs:
Re:	Vacation Scheduling
The Company agrees to make every reasonable effort to maximize the availability of vacation time to all employees.
80
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
LOA 9
Local 4612	May 23,2012
CAW
Dear Sirs:
Re:	Leaving Work Premises
The Company and the Union agree to a twelve (12) month trial period, from the date of ratification, where employees are able to leave the premises during their thirty (30) minute break.
Employees will be required to clock out when leaving the premises and clock in upon return.
During the trial period the Company and the Union will assess the effects on production and attendance.
If issues arise, we will revert back to previous practice.
81