COLLECTIVE
AGREEMENT
between
Collins & Aikman and
United Steelworkers of America AFL-CIO-CLC on behalf of its Local 889L Effective January 1, 2002 to December31, 2006
2002-2006
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT BETWEEN COLLINS& AI KM AN AND
UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA ON BEHALF OF ITS LOCAL 889L
INDEX
Soilage.........19
.....i0l2°
Article	Page
1	-	Scope and Recognition............................................ 4
2	-	Relationship..................................................... 5
3	-	Reservation of Management Rights................................. 5
4	-	Check-off of Union Dues.......................................... 7
5	-	No Strikes tr Lockouts........................................... 7
6	-	Representation................................................... 8
7	-	Grievance Procedure............................................. 10
8	-	Seniority......................................................  15
•	8.07 Lay-Off.......I*'* Ua» ,ve. ri 1	,
•	8.08 Layoff Due to Wji
•	8.09 Job Posting I
•	8.10 Loss of Seniority
9	-	Leave of Absence.,
•	9.04 Maternity...AHEjjjfc.'l.................................23
•	9.05 Sick Leave..............................................23
•	9.10 Bereavement............................................ 25
10	-	Overtime........................................................ 26
•	10.03 Reporting Pay..........................................28
•	10.07 Shift Bonus............................................30
11	-	Vacations........................................................31
12- Designated Holidays...............................................32
13	-	Safety and Health................................................34
14	-	General..........................................................37
•	14.07 Safety Committee...................................... 39
•	14.08 Pension Plan.......................................... 39
15	-	Wages............................................................41
16	-	Duration.........................................................42
1
Pay Rates and Labour Grades.....................................
Schedule of Statutory and Designated Holidays...................
Letters ofUnderstanding:
#1 GrievanceMeetings...............................
#2 Shift Changes...................................
#3 Disciplinary Notations..........................
#4 Wages and Inflation.............................
#5 Bidding on Postings Vacated as a
Result of a Personal Leave of Absence.........
#6 Mutually Agreed Items...........................
#7 Absentee p0ol Employees.........................
#8 Subcontractin';.................................
#9 Transfer Miry...................................
#10 PlantClosure...................................
#11 Union Leave of Absence.........................
#12 Temporary Job Postings.........................
#13 Maintenance Mechanic/Millwiight Transfer Policy #14 Filling Vacancies..............................
43
48
50
51
53
54
55
56
57
59
60 62
63
64 66 67
2
Wherever the singular and masculine are used in this Agreement they shall be construed as if the plural or feminine had been usad vhas the context so requires, and the rest of the sentence shall be construed as if the grammatical and terminological changes thereby rendered necessary have been made.
3
THIS AGREEMENT ENTERED INTO AS OF THE l* DAY OF JANUARY2002
BETWEEN
COLLINS& AIRMAN (hereinafter referred to as the "Company") OF THE FIRST PART
-and-
UNTTED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA ON BEHALF OF ns LOCAL 889L (hereinafter referred to as the "Union")
OF THE SECOND PART
ARTICLE 1 - SCOPE AND RECOGNITION
1.01	The Companyrecognizes the Union as (he sole and exclusive bargaining agent tin' all of its employees at Pott Ikpe, Ontario, save and except foremen, supervisors, persons above the rank of foreman or supervisor, cfELce staff clerical staff sales staff students, security guards, full-time first aid staff part-time temporary persons employed tin' not mans than twenty-four (24) hours per week.
1.02	The Companyagrees that in the event it decidesto transfer all o' a major part of its manufacturing operations from the Bart Hope plant to another plant vhkh results in the permanent lap££ of full-time employees it will meet wi1h the Urion wifhin fifteen (15) working days of that announcement Any permanent Bart ftps Collins & Aikman employee laid-off as a result of the transfer of weak to any other Collies & Aikman facility which might be established within the Durham er Northumberland Countieswill be offered work within that new facility. Any such job offer would be subject to qualifications for the. availablejob.
4
ARTICLE 2 - RELATIONSHIP
2.01	The Company and the Union agree that there will be no discrimination,
interference, restraint cr coercion exercised or practised by the Company or the Union, or by any of their representatives, with respect to membership or nonmembership in the Union. The Union agrees that no Union member will conduct Union activities on the premises of the Company except as specifically permitted by this Agreement.
ARTICLE 3 - RESERVATION OF MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
3.01	Except as, and to the extent specifically modified by this Agreement, all
rights and prerogatives which the Company had prior to the execution of this Agreement are retained by the Company and remain exclusively and without limitation within the rights of the Company and its management. Without limiting the generality ofthe foregoing, the Company's rights shall include:
a)	the right: to maintain order, discipline and efficiency; to make, alter, and enforce, from tine to time, reasonable rules and regulations, policies and practices, to be obeyed by its employees;to discipline and discharge employees forjust cause. In the event the Union disputes the reasonablenessof such bfas and regulations, the Union shall have the right to file a policy grievance in respect hereof pursuant to the provisions of Article 7.11 of this Agreement Such grievances shall specify the rule or dhs being disputed.
b)	the right: to select, hire and control the working farce and employees; to transfer, assign, promote, denote, classify, lay-off, recall, suspend and retire employees pursuant to the provisions of any pension plan; to plan, direct and control operations;to designate, establish, rs/iss or discontinue departments; to select and retain employees for positions excluded from the bargaining unit and to transfer erplqyees into the bargaining unit.
c)	the right to determine: the location and extent of its operations and their commencement, expansion, curtailment, or discontinuance,the direction of the working forces; the products to be manufactured, the standards of production; the subcontracting of woik; the schedules of wotk and of production; 1±e number of shifts; the methods; processes and means of performing work; job content and requirements; quality and quantity standards, the qualifications of employees;the use of improved methods, machinery and equipment; whether
5
there shell be overtime work and who shall perform such work, the number of employees needed by He Company at any time and hew many shall operate or wok on anyjob, operation, machine or production line; the administration of the Compares pay system; which jobs shall be incaitive jobs andwhichjobs shall not; the number of hours to be worked, starting and quitting the, and generally, the right to manage the enterprise and its business without irtafoerre are solely and exclusively the right of the Company.
d)	No bargaining unit employee shall be made redundant or suffer loss of earnings through supervisors or other excluded personnel performing work normally done by snplcyees in the bargaining unit. Supervisors and other excluded personnel may only perform bargaining unit tasks for purposes of instnctdoi, inspection or m cases of emergency.
e)	The Company may from time to time appoint an employee to act as a "Group Leader".
Group Leader is not a separate classificationas such and persons appointed as Group Leadersare expected to performtheirregularduties.
A Group Leader shall guide, aid and instruct a designated group of employees and will be responsible for coordinating the vrak of the pup.
Group Leader appointments shall not be subject to the provision of Article 8,09 of this Collective Agreement. An employee designated as a Group Leader, w i 11 be paid, while saving as a Group Leader, fifty cents fSOjper hour none thanthejob rate of the highest classification held by anyone in tie group he/she is leading. The fifty cents (.50) per hour premium willnotbesubjectto overtime or shiftprsniums.
Group Leaders do not have any disciplinary responsibilities and may not enter any dispute between the Company and any of its employees.
6
ARTICLE 4 - CHECK-OFF OFUNIONDUES
4.01	Hie Company and the Union agree that all present employees,
transferred employees, and new employees must as a condition of employment have their regularmonthly Union dues deductedin accordance wittt the Constitution of the Union and as determined by the Loea l Union No. 889L for the life of this Agreement Such deductions shall be in respect of regular weekly Union dues only including first week's dues, and shallnot applyto any levies or special assessments.
4.02	The amount to be deducted in accordance wittt the provisions of Article
4.01	hereof shall be in an amount provided bythe Union Constitution, The Company shall remit the dues as aforesaid not lata: than the tenth day of each month following the montii of such deduction to a designatedUnion office:. The Company will supply the Union wittt a list of the employees from whom deductions were made.
4.03	The Union agreesto indemnify and hold the Company harmless against all claims, demands and expenses, should any person at anytime contend or claim that the Company has acted wrongfully or illegally in making such deductions.
ARTICLE 5 ■ NO STRIKES OR LOCKOUTS
5.01	The Union undertakes and agrees that while this Agreement is in operationneither the Union nor any employee shall take part in or call or encourage or support or condone any strike, picketing, sitdown, slowdown, or any suspensionof or stoppage, of or impeding of cr curtailment of or interference wittt work or production, which shall in any way affect the operations of the Company, nor shall thwe be any sympathy strikes or secondary boycotts and the Company agrees that it will not engage in any lockout during lie term of this Agreement,
5.02	Any employee who participates m any of the foregoing conduct shall be subje± to distipliiE up to and including discharge. Such employee may have recourse to die grievanceprocedure and a board of arbitration shall havejurisdiction to determine if the grievor did, in fact, improperly participate in the foregoing ocrdrt. If the arbitration board determines that the grievor did, in fact improperly participate in the foregoing conduct the board of arbitration shall not have jurisdiction to interfere with such discipline or discharge.
7
ARTICLE 6 - REPRESENTATION 6.01	Bargaining Committee
The Company acknowledges the right of the Union to appoint or otherwise select from the Union membership in the Company's Rrt Hope, Ontario plant, a Bargaining Committee comprised of not more than four (4) seniority employees in good standing of the Company, The Local Union President shall be Chairman thereof. The Company will recognize (he Bargaining Committee for (he purpose of handling anygrievance or discussing a matter properly arising during the continuance of this Agreement. Wherever in this Agreement the term "committee" is used, it shallbe deemed to mean "BargainingCommittee."
The Company agrees Id reoognize eight (8) stewards, who shall be seniority
employees.
When there are fifty (50) or more employees on the night shift, the Union shall be entitled to an addition al steward on that shift.
When there are more than five hundred (500) employees ii the Bargaining lint, (he Union shall be entitled to two (2) additional stewards and when there are more than seven hundred and fifty (750) employeesin the BargainingUnit, the Union shall be entitled to one (1) additional steward.
The Company agrees to recognize one (1) additional steward as a Chief Steward.
The bargaining committee shall have the option cf being placed on day shift throughoutthe life of (he agreement providing:
a)	There is productive work to be done within theixqualifications and ability.
b)	Such option is exercised within two weeks of ratification or a new bargaining committee member taking office.
c)	That a bargaining committee member returns to their home shift upon leaving office.
6.02	Not more than two (2) International Representatives of (he Union may
be present and participate in any meeting of the Bargaining Committee and the
8
Company. The Company will not be required to meet a total of more than four (4) Union representatives at any time in addition to an International Representative of the Union. An additionalunicnrepresentative may be present by mutual agreement.
6.03	One (1) memberofthe Bargaining Committee will be permitted to leave his work and init when notified by his supervisor that he has been summoned for the purpose of handling grievances A member of the Bargaining Committee will be permitted to leave life work and unit when rotifisi by life supervisor that there will be a meeting with representatives of the Company. A Sift Steward may be permitted to leave his work when he has been rotifLsi by his supervisor for the purpose of handling a grievance at the first cr second step of the grievance procedure. Such employee shall report to his supervisor ipon his return to work Time away from work for the purpose herein specified shall not on the aggregate exceed three (3) hours per week for any one individual.
6.04	A Committeeman or Shift Steward required under the grievance procedure to enter another unit must inform the supervisor of that unit which he enters of the reason for his presence. Committeemen or Sift Stewards, as the case maybe, shall expeditiously attend to the grievanceso that no unnecessary loss of tine or interference with production will result therefrom.
6.05	The Union recognizes and agrees that members of the Bargaining
Committee and Shift Stewardshave their regular duties to perform in connection with their eiplqyrrent. The company will compensate such Committeemen and Shift Stewards for time spent at the plant dining tireir regular working hours in handling grievances of employees pursuant to the grievance procedure at their regular straight tine base, hourly rate of pay, provided this privilege is not abused by the Committeemen or Sift Stewards. Committeemen or Sift Stewards will not be compensated for time spent prior to or beyond their regular working hours on Union business unless at therequest of the Company.
6.06	Notwithstanding anything otherwise contained in this Agreement, the Company may delay or defer permission to a Steward, Committeeman, or other Union official who wishes to leave his work pursuant to the provisions hereof, if such leaving would interfere with the efficient operation of the Plant.
6.07	The Union agrees to supply the Company with the names of Committeemen and Shift Stewards and to keep such list up to chtc at all times and the Company shall not be obliged to recognize such personnel until it has been so informed.
9
6.08	The employees shall be represented by stewards upon their shift as set out in Article 6.01 hereof, not more then two (2) of whom shall be &om any single department with fewer than thirty (30) employees per drift.
For the purposes of this Article, areas of coverage, by stewards will be mutually agreed upon by the parties during January of each calaidaryear.
Exceptions to the above due to transfers, reassignments, shift changes and layoffs may be mutually agreed upon by the partiesas the need arises.
6.09	For the purpose of this Agreement the Bargaining Committee and the stewards, together wi1h the nffirprs of the Local Union, shall be deemed to be officials of the Union. The parties hereto agree that the Union officials occupy positions of leadership and responsibility to see that this Agreement is faithfully carried out.
6.10	The Company will recognize a bargaining unit employee, who has
received training in tine study methods, as an observer in cases where a work standard becomes the subject of a grievance. The observer shall have tits, right to be
present during a review of wok netted, time study and calculations necessary to check the general standard.
ARTICLE 7 • GRIEVANCEPROCEDURE
7.01	The grievance procedures herein provided for are among the most importantnatbas in the successful administration of this Agreement The Company and the Union therefore agree that the designated grievance procedure as hereinafter set forth shall serve as and constitute the sole and exclusive means to be utilized by the grievor for the prompt disposition, decision and final settlement of a grievance arising in respect of the interpretation, application, administration or alLegad violation of this Agreement, and the specifically designated grievance procedure shall be strictly followed. Wherever tie term "grievance procedure"is used in this Agreement it shall be considered as including the arbitrationprocedure.
7.02	"Grievance" shall mean a complaint or dadm concerning improper discipline or discharge, or a dispute with reference to the interpretation, application, administration or alleged violation of this Agreement,
10
7.03	The Company shall be uncfer no obligation to consider or process any grievance unless such grievance has been presented to the Company in writing at Step 1 of the grievance procedure within five (5) worldng days from the tune the circumstances upon which the grievance is based were known by the grievor, However, if the Company does consider or process a grievance which has been presented He, the Company shall not be estopped or precluded at any stage of the grievance procedure from teldrg the position that the grievance is late and not arbitrable unless the grievance is subjectto legaljurisdiction.
7.04	221 time limits referred to in the grievance procedure herein contained shall be deemed to mean "working days", ie,, exclusive of Saturday, Sunday or the holidays set out in Article 12 bereo f.
7.05	No employee or group of employees shall have a grievance until they have discussed their complaint wi1h their irmBdiabs supervisor. If the employee wishes, he/they m y be accompanied by their steward, If the immediate supervisor does not promptly settle the matter to the employees’ satisfaction an employees' proper grievance shallbe processed as follows:
STEP No. 1
If an(y) employee(s) have a grievanoethe grievance shall, within the five (5) worldng days referred to in Article 7.03, be reduced to writing and presented to the Sift Coordinator. The steward will present the written grievance to his Shift Coordinator. The Sift Coordinator shall give the grievor(s) a written reply as soon as possible but not later than five (5) days after such discussion. If the Shift Coordinator's reply is not satisfactory to the grievotfs), the next step must be taloi wittiin five (5) days o f the 9ift Coordinator's answar,but not thereafter.
The written grievance referred to above shall identify: the facts glvrg rise to the grievance; the section or sections of the Agreement claimed to be Violated the relief requested; and shall be signed by the employees) and countersigned by their steward.
STEP No. 2
At this step the written grievance shall be presented to the tfewcpr concerned within the aforesaid fLte (5) days of receipt of the Sift Coordinator's written reply, but not thereafter.
11
A meeting will be held weekly for each shift between a Member of the Bargaining Committee together with the steward involved, and the b&Tajr concerned together with other representatives of management This meeting will be held at a mutually agreeable time and location and shall address all grievances referred from Step 1 of the grievance procedure and shall provide responses to all grievances addressed in the previous weekly Step 2 meeting.
If such Manager’s reply is not satisfactory to the member of the bargaining committee Ihe next step shall be taken within five (5) days after the delivery of such Manager's reply to the member of the bargaining committee, but not thereafter.
STEP No.3
At this step, the Uukn shall, within the aforesaid five (5) days, notify the General Manager in writing of its desire to appeal the decision of the Manager concerned at SbqoNo. 2. Shortly thereafter, a meeting will take place between the Bargaining Committee (which may be accompanied by the International Representative ofthe thkn) andtheGeneral Manager and any other representatives of management The grievor shall be required to be present at the request of either party. The Conpany shall deliver its tfeisicn in writing to fire Chairman of the Bargaining Committee within ten (10) working days of such meeting.
STEP No. 4
In the event the grievance is not settled at Step No. 3, the party having carnage of the grievance shall request arbitration of the grievance by giving notice in writing to the other party within thirty-five (35) days from delivery of the dedsionat Step No. 3 to the Chairman of the BargainingCommittee, but not thereafter,
If a request for arbitration is net so given within such thirty-five (35) day period, the decision at Stq? 3 shall be final and binding upon both parties to this Agreement, and upon any employee involved. The notice to arbitrate shall contain the name and address of the moving party's nominee to the Beard and shall also specify all ofthe outstanding isaies of the written grievance to be dealt with by the Board and the remedy sought. The party giving such notice shall be bound by the same and shall be restricted at arbitration to the isssspresented by the notice.
The recipient of the notice shall within five (5) days advise the other party, in writing, ofthe name of its appainteeto the arbitration IimcI
12
The two appointeesso selected shall, within five (5) days of the appointmentof tte second of them, appoint a thud person who shall be chairman. If the recipient of tbs notice fails to appoint an arbitrator, or if the two appointees I ail to agree upon a chairman, within the tine limited, the Minister of Labour for Ontario shall, if requested within the five (5) days from expiry of the date upon which the two appointees are to appoint a chairman (but not hereafter), forthwith appoint a qualified person to be chairman.
7.06	The arbitration hard shall hear and determine the matter and shall issue a decision which shall be final and binding upon the parties and upon any employee affected by it The decision of the. majority shall be the decision cf the arbitration board, but if tiers is no majority decision, the decision of tte chairman shall govern,
7.07	The Board of Arbitration shall not be authorized to make any decision inconsistent wi1h provisions of this Agreement, nor to alter, modify or amend any part of this Agreement, nor to adjudicate any matter not specifically assigned to it by the notice to arbilrate. in Step. No. 4 of Article 7.05 hereof.
7.08	Each party hereto shall tear its own costs of and incidental to any such arbitration proceedings. The fees and charges of the chairman of the board of arbitration shall be home equally by tie two parties hereto,
7.09	The the limits and other procedural requirements set out in this Article 7 are mandatory and not merely directory, and no matter may be submitted to
arbitration which has not properly been carried though all specified previous steps of the grievance procedure within the times spezfied. The parties recognize that in some departments and on sane shifts 'bimediatsupervisor" and "Shift Coordinator" shall be the same parson, and the grievance shall be filed with such person after being discussedwith himas a complaint, pursuant to tte provisions hereof, In the eventthat the Com pany exceeds the time limits set out in the grievance procedure, the grievance will be considered to have been carried through the applicable step of the procedure and will be advanced to the next step. The provisions of this clause drill not be considered to have bean waived by the parties or either of them unless fiey expressly provide a waiver thereof in writing, signed by both parties.
7,tO	A decision or settlement reached at any stage of the grievance procedure
shall be final and binding upon all parties hereto, including the complaining employee, and shall not be subject to reopening by any party except by agreement in writing, if the grievance is settled at any step of the grievance procedure, both tte Company management and tte Union representatives who pass on the same as
13
provided herein shall sign the settlement as endorsed upon the Written grievance, so that no question or argument may arise as to what the settlement was. Either party shall have the right to require the attendance of Le grievor at any meeting held pursuantto Steps 1,2, or 3 of thegrievanceprocedure,
When an employee's grievance is settled by the parties or determined by the board of arbitration on the basis that the employee is entitled to be reimbursed for wages lost as a result of action on the part of the Company in violation of this Agreement, such reimbursement shallbe retroactive to the (fete of the presentation of the grievance to the Company in writing. Such reimbursement shall be at the employee's regular straight time earnings for such hours as the employee would have worked for Le Company if ths violation had not occurred, but there shall be subtracted therefrom any monies the employee received during such paricd and any Unemployment Insurance benefits received by the employee during such period.
7.11	LhimEdlirY Grievance cr Company Grievance
A Union policy grievance. or a Company grievance may be submitted to the Company orthe Uhim,as the case maybe, in writing, within seven (Vjdays from the time the circumstances upon which the grievance is basad were known or shouldhave been known by the grievor. A meeting between the Company and the Union shall be held within five (5) days of the presentation of the written grievance and shall take place within the framework of Step Nd. 3 of Article 7.05. The Company or the Uhictt, asthe casemaybe, shall give ita written decision within three (3) days of such meeting.
If the decision is unsatisfactory to the grieving party, the grievance may be submitted to arbitration within thirty-five (35) days of the delivery of such written decision and the arbitration sartimsof this Agreement shall be followed.
It is express ly understood that the provisions of this paragraph 7.11 may not be used by the Lhim to institute a grievance directly affecting an employee or employees which such employee or employees could themselves institute, and the provisions of Article 7.05 hereof shallnottherebybe bypassed.
7.12	(a) DISCHARGE CASES
A claim by a seniority employeethat he has been discharged without just cause shall be treated as a grievance and shall commence at Step No. 3 of Article 7.05 provided a written grievance signed by the employee and his Department Steward or
14
Bargaining Committee is presented to the General Manager within five (5) daysaftcr the discharge. The intemattinml Representative of the Union will be permitted to attend the meeting held pursuant thereto, with the Gaieral Manager. The Unicn will not question the discharge of any probationary employee nor shall such discharge be the subject of a grievance unless such dischargewas forunjust cause.
A seniority employee who is discharged while on the Company premises shall have therightto confer with his steward for up to thirty (30) minutes, ii a place designated by the Company, before Hearing the Plant.
7.12 (b) Should the parties agree or should the grievor satisfy the ahibafciai board that an employee has teen discharged without just cause, such employee shall be reinstated as an employee without loss of seniority and shall be compensated in accordance with the provisions of Article 7,10 hereof
ARTICLE 8 - SENIORITY
8.01	An employee will be considered a probationary employee until he has been employed by the Company for ninety (90) calendar days within a twelve (12) month consecutive period. During his probationary period he will have no seniority rights but when such rights are acquired, seniority will be regarded as having started from the (fete niMy (90) days immediately prior to acquiring such seniority. The employee shall carry such seniority in his unit.
8.02	The Company will post seniority lists once every sir (6) months and such list shall show the employee's seniority and unit in wtndi the employee holds such seniority. Subjeotto the provisions of tins Hgreanait, seniority shall be by unit and plant-wide. The Company shall furnish the Union with a copy of the seniority list.
8.03	For the purpose of applying the seniorityprovisions of this Hgrearmt, which seniorityprovisions shall be applied only to the extent expressly provided in this Agresnent, the present units are as follows:
UnitNo. 1 - Production operations including Labour Grade 99s,
Compounders, Shell/Foam/Injection/Brown Technicians, Paint Technicians and CO2 Mould Cleaner UnitNo. 2 - Warehouse and Production Drivers
15
Unit No. 3 ■ Maintenance Mechanic/Miliwright, Maintenance Fabricator, industrial. Instrument Electrician, Refrigeration/Air ConditioningMechanic, Tooling Ifedraiics,Modular Tooling l|BC3alists,Mould Repair, Mould Maker, Apprentices
UnitNo.4 - Colour, Physieal/Chemical, Development, Foam/Shel), Auditors, Process Verifier, QC Inspector
New product lines cr changes in existing product lines may require additions to or changes in the foregoingunit structure. The Company will notify the Union of any such additions or changes. Should the Union, after being so notified, wish to discuss any such additions or changes, the Company will meet with the Union and explain or otherwise discuss the additions or changes,
8.04	A seniority employee who is transferred to anotherunit by seniority on
an indefinite lay-off (ie, lay-off other than layoff due to work shortage as defined herein), or on recall therefrom, shall lose seniority in his former unit (ie, in which he held unit seniority) after ninety (90) days worked and attain sariarity in the new unit, after ninety (90) days worked in the new unit. During such ninety day period he shall continue to accumulate seniority in his former unit and when he attains seniority in the new unit he shall be credited with the seniority which he had in his former unit. However, if such employee's formerjob re-opens within such ninety (90) days in the new unit the employee shall return to his formerjob. An employee shall hold seniority in only one (1) unit ± any one time.
A seniorityemployee who has held a j ob classincation for a period of 30 days or longer, and who is reclassified due to a work shortage to a lower rated job classincation, shall have the right to return to the job from which he was displaced provided that suchj ob reopens within a period of 60 days.
in the event that the original job docs not become available within 60 days then the j ob will become the subject to the job posting procedure as described in Article 8.09.
8.05	The selection of employees for supervisory positions or for any position
not subject to the ccnditians of this Agreement is not covered by this Agreement, A non-bargaining unit person with less than one (1) year of service in a salaried position who is transferred to a position wilhin the bargaining unit shall be credited with seniority equal to his full accumulated service with the Company excluding the tine worked outside the bargaining unit. Upon such transfer into the bargaining unit, the employee shall exercise his seniority to bump the least saiior employee in the
16
bargaining unit Should suchjob not be available the employee shall exercise his seniorityunder the provision of Article 8,07, Employees with mere than one (1) year of sendee in a salaried position shall not be transferred back into the bargaining unit.
8.06	In filling permanent job vacancies (except those in respect of positions excluded from the bargaining unit) and in cases of decrease or increase of the working force, the following factors shall be considered.
a)	length of seniority,
b)	experience, efficiencyandqualifications;
c)	ability to perform the essential duties of ttejob and reliability.
Where the qualifications in factors (b) and (c) am relatively equal, factor (a) shall goYau The Company will advise the Union of the selected candidate and will discuss the deuisicn wi1h the Union prior to notifying the individual employee concerned.
Where educational requirements arc specified they shall be interpreted to mean either actual academic qualification or proven and demonstrated ability to perform work requiring similar qualifications.
8.07	When there is to be a layoff m a unit the junior employees in the
classification affected shall be subject to be laidoff proviefed the remaining employees are, in the judgement of the Company, of relatively equal skill, competency, efficiency and qualifications. The Company will furnish the Union with a list of those employees who are to be laid-off and will discuss the list with the Union prior to notifying the individual employees affected by die lay-off.
An employee so siiqject to lay-off will be assigned by the Company to work being performed by another employee wi1h less seniority in the plant, subjectalways to the provisions of Article 8,06 hereof,
i)	an employee shall have the option of being placed in a job within his own classification on his own shift, provided such a job exists and is held by another employee wi1h lessseoicrity, orif no suchjob exists,
ii)	the employee will be placed in a job within his own classification but on another shift, provided suchjob exists and is held by another employee with less seniority. If no suchj ob exists, then,
17
iii)	the employee will be placed in a lower-rated job, held by a less senior employee, which he formerly held for a period of at least ninety (90) days. Such assagnrsits will be made whenever possible to provide the employee with the least wage loss practicable. If no j ob exists,
iv)	the employee will be placed in a labour grade 99 position, held by a less senior employee.
v)	an employee transferred to labour grade 99 under the provision of Article 8.06 and 8,07 will transfer at the step achieved in his prior classification. Within one year from (fete of transfer, the employee must attain the skill level commensurate wi1h the step transferred to, or drop to the step that equates to the skill level achieved.
Notwithstanding anything contained herein, the employee shall not use his seniority to be assigned to a hi^ier labour grade than his current labour grade.
Whereverused in this Agreement, the word "qialified" or the like, shall mean presently possessed of the accomplishments which enable the person to perform the work required in accordance wi1h the Company’s quality and production standards so that the person performs such work after being given genera 1 information concerning it, but does not require a trial periodcr a training period.
In administering Article 8.06 and the foregoing paragraphs of Article 8,07 hereof, the following will apply
a)	"pranotion" shall be defined as a permanent transfer to a classification carrying a higher rate of pay than the employee's rate or a classification which carries a higher range of rates than tbs range of rates in the employee's classification.
b)	Tine spent on lay-off will not count towards qualifying for incremental wage increases,
c)	in the event that a vacancy exists at the t±K of reduction of force the Company shall have the right to assign an employee affected by such a reduction of force to such vacancy, provided he is qualified to perform the work in accordance wi1h the Company's qualify and production standards after having being trained to the those standards.
18
d)	in thecase of reduction in force involving a number of employas in one (I) week, employees affected may be laid olffora period of cne(l)week without regard to seniority to allrw tine to make reassignment on tbs basis of the
provisionsof Articles 8,0b and 8,07 hereof.
e)	When the company implements the provisions of paragraphs (c) or (e) of this Article 8,07 tie Company will advise the Bargaining Committee of the reasons (hereof,
f)	in all cases of lay-off otherthan layoff due to work shortage as defined in this Agreement under Article 8.08, the Company will give five (5) days notice to the employees affected of the impending lay-off
8.08 LAYOFF DUE TO WORK SHORTAGE
Work Shortage Layoff shall mean the discmtinuatim or reduction in hours of work due to a tarporaiy shortage of work.
a)	in c as a of work shortage layoff of less than one full week, seniority need not
be considered, No sonority employee may be laid off under this provision for mare than 64 working hours in any calendaryear,
b)	in cases of work shortage layoff of one full week tr more, an employe so subject to lay-off will be assigned by the Company to a labour Grade 99 position, provided such job exists and is held by the least senior Labour Grade 99 employee. Employees who hold bid jobs and are assigned to a Labour Grade 99 position under this article will be paid at thejob rate for their regular classification. Employees abject to layoff under this provision vil not accumulate hours under Article 8.08 (a). At the cad of the work shortage layoff, employees affected will return to their previous position and shift.
c)	No Absentee EbaL employees will be retained when seniority arplqyees,who are on work shortage layoff, are available, willing, and qualified to do the work.
Employees who would otherwise be sent hems on work shortage layoff but who have been given an opportunity to do alternate work on thair shift instead, then elect to voluntarily go heme, shall not accumulate hours pa: Article 8.08 (a).
19
Employas who would be subject to work shortage layoff! ureter the provisions of 8.08 (b), m y e]e± a layoff out of seniority.
8.09	JOB POSTING PROCEDURE
The Company agrees to advertise all permanent job vacancies for three (3)
days. AUjob postings shall state openings by shift. During the posting period the Company may temporarily fill the job as it deems proper. The Company will consider applications and apply the provisions of Article 8.06 hereof. AU employees interested mthejob vacancy must make application within three (3)workingdays.
Suchjob posting shall apply in respect of the original vacancy and the next two (2) vacancies resulting from the. filling of the original vacancy. If the bid of an
employee fix a particular job vacancy hereunder is accepted, such employee shall be ineligible to bid under this Article 8.09 for anyj ob vacancy for a period of at least six (6)calendar months from the date of such successful bid and relatedjob transfer. An employee transferred under the provisions of this Article 8.09 who is subsequently unable to meet the Company's standards of quality and production withh the first ninety (90) days of sich transfer, will be transferred back to his/her former position without loss of seniority or bidding rights.
An employee transferred under the provisions of this Article 8.09 who during the first ninety (90) days following such transfer makes request to return to his/her forma- position m y do so. An employee electingto return to his/her forma position unter this provision shall forfeit any right under thejob bidding procedure for six (6) ninths fro m the date of the bid closing.
The purpose of thejob posting procedure is to provide employees with the opportunity to bid on jobs in a higha labour grade, in certain circumstances an employee may wish to bid on a job at the same or Iowa labour grade than the employee's existingjob. in orda to be eligibleto bid on ajob at the same or lower labour grade than the employee's currentjob, the employee must have held the current position for a period of not less than six (6) months.
The foregoing provision shall not apply to employees exercising their bidding rights under Article 8.09 for the first time, nor employees making a bid to transfer from a position to which they were appointed.
What nevjobs are arsabaior ex/sffngjobs are open the Company shall be able to fill such jobs for a period of thirty (30) days during which such jobs shall be
20
posted Employees working during the first thirty (30) days shall not have such time taken irto considerationforqualifications.
When an employee is successful in obtaining a higher rated job through the bidding provisions of Article 8.09, he shall be placed in the job within forty-five (45) days of being awarded the position. In the event that the employee is not placed in the new job wittiin the thirty (30) day period, he shall be paid at the rate fra' the new job from the thirty-first (31st) until such time as the transfer is effective provided that the new job is still available.
8.10 LOSS OF SENIORITY
An employee shall lose all seniorityrights and service rights if:
a)	he quits his employment;
b)	he is dischargedfarjust cause not reversed through the grievance procedure;
c)	an employee with less than four (4) years seniority is laid off for a paid in excess of one(l) year, an employee with four (4) years ormore of seniority is laid off for a periodin excess oftwo(2)yeara.
d)	aperson on lay-offfailsto return tovcokwithin five (5) working days after the Company's notice of recall is sent by mgi stand mail or telegram to the last address of the person shown on Hunan Resources Office records, or, if the {tersest within three (3) working days after such notice of recall is so sent fails to rodfy the Hunan Resources CfEbsofhis irtHtim to return to work
The foregoing provision may be waived by the Hunan Resources Manager in writing if the person furnishes reasons satisfactory to the Human Resources Manager far such failure on his part In such cases of waiver, the person will not be permitted to displace another employee with less seniority who has been employed in the meantime, but will be rehired with seniority intact when employment £x which he is qualified and fra' which he has the necessary seniority is available.
e)	an employee fails to return to work promptly after the apimtim of any leave granted to him unless he is excused by the Hunan Resources Manager.
21
It shall be the duty of the employee or laid-off person to notify the Company office promptly, in writing, of any change of address or telephone number, if an employee or laid off person should fail to do this, the Company w i 11 not be responsible for the Mure of a notice to reach him and any notice sent by the Company by registered mail or telegram to the address which appears on the Company's personnel records, or telephoned to the telephone number which appears on the Company's records drill be conclusively deemed to have teen recei ved by the employee or laid off person.
8.11	PREFERENTIAL SENIORITY
The executive officers of the Union and Bargaining Committee, not to exceed eleven (11), will be retained by the Company in the event of a lay-off affecting their unit, so long as there is work in their respective units which they are qualified to perform, notwithstanding theirposition on the seniority list.
ARTICLE 9 - LEAVE OF ABSENCE
9.01	AU leaves of absence as referred to in this Agreement shall be without pay or any other form of compensation.
9.02	The Company may, in its own discretion, grant leave of absence, without pay, to any employafor legitimatepersonalmons, and any person who is absentwithsuc/lpermissionshallcontinuetoaccumulate seniority, for a period not to exceed three (3) months, during such absence.
9.03	(a) The Company wi 11 grant leave of absence to not more than seven (7) employees in good standing at the same time for legitimate Union business. This leave of absence shall not exceed fifteen (15) working days each year pgr employee, and in any event not to exceed a total of one hundred fifteen (115) working days per
yearinrespectofallsucheraployees, inaddition to the foregoing, the Company will grant an additional twenty (20) days per year leave of absence to the Resident of the Local Union, and fifteen (15) additional days per year leave for safety related Union business.
9.03	(b) An employee wittt seniority who is elected or selected as a full-time officer tr representative of Local 889L, the United Steelworkers of America, or the International Union, upon request in writing to the Company will be granted a leave of absence for whatever tine is necessary, Should he request reinstatement within
22
thirty (30) days after the termination of the Unim position, he will be reinstatedin his former job. if his former job has been eliminated, he will be offend a siailarjob. Senioritywill acomrlateduring suchabsence.
9.04	Any seniority employee in case of pregnancy or parental leave, certified by a qualified physician, and giving minimum notice of two (2) weeks to the Hunan Resources Department, will be granted a leave in the following manner
•	Regnancy leave-17 weeks
•	Parental leave - 18 weeks
If the employee is a mother p lanning to take both pregnancy and parental leave she must give notice to the Company’s Hunan Resources Department that she will be taking both leaves for atotal leavetime of 35 weeks. Thisnotice must be given at least two (2) weeks before her pregnancy leave ends, or it can be given at the same time as she gives notice for pregnancy leave,
For the purpose of this clause a parent is a man or woman who:
•	is the birth parent of a child
•	adopts a child
•	becomes a step-parent
•	is in a long-lasting relationshipwi1h the parent of a child and intends to treat the child as his or her own.
Seniority, benefits and pension will accumulate duringthe period of such leaves.
Before returning to work the employee must provide the Company with a physician’s certificate stating she is fit to perform her normal duties.
If the employee fails to r^ort to work promptly after the expiration of the leave, she shall be considered as having voluntarilyquit.
9.05	SICK LEAVE
Any employee who, because of illness or injuryrequiring an absence from his job for more than two (2) working days, shall, upon furnishing satisfactory evidence to the Company of such illness or injury, be granted a sick leave for the duration of the period of his disability due to such illness or injury, except that at the end of
23
twelve (12) norths m the case of an employee with less than four (4) years' seniority, or twenty-four (24Jmcnths in the case of an employee vifh four (4)years or nans seniority, of continuous absence because of such illness or injury the arpkyee's employment and seniority Shall be terminated. The employee Shall furnish supplementary medical evidence of disability, from tine to time, as required by the Company. Failure to furnish such evidence of disability will result in the termination of the employee’s employment and seniority. Before any employee on sick leave may return to work he must present a doctor's certificate stating that he has fully recovered both physically and mentally and is able to return to his regular job classification and perform suchjob m accordance with the Company's quality and production standards. The Company receives the right to have any employee examined by a Company physician m connection with a sickleave.
The Company reser/es therighi to refuse or terminate a leave of absence under this provision if the record ofthe employee indicates an excessive amount of time off or recurring or repetitive time off The determination as to what constitutes excessive, recurring or repetitive time off will be negotiated and mutually agreed upon between the Uin and the Company.
For Worker's Compensation cases the maximum allowable leave of absenoe for seniority employees shall be forty-eight (48) norths.
With respect to work-related injuries tr illnesses, the parties agree that fey will allow one anotherto review relevant fries upon request,
9.06	Employees returning firm authorized leave of absence will be returned
to the same job, providing suchjob exists, or a comparablejob with a comparable rate of pay providing such a comparablejob exists for which the anplqyee is qualified
An employa returning to work under the provision of this Article may be placed back in tie work force under the provisions of Article 8,07 if his formerjob does not exist
9.07	Application for leave of absence shall be made in Writing to the employee's immediate supervisor and it will then be referred for final approval in accordance with Company policy, however, no leave will be granted for a pericd greater than an employee's accumulated seniority and in no case, other than as specificallysef out in Article 9,05 hereof, in excess of two (2) years.
24
9,08	If an employa overstays his leave of absence he is presumed to have
severed employmentwith the Company unless he can give an explanation satisfactory to the Company for his inability to return to work on the expiry ckts of his leave of absence.
9.09	JURY DUTY
Each seniority employee who is summoned to and reports for jury duty, or is subpoenaed as a Crown witness, as prescribed by applicable law (subject to the pligihility requirements set out below), shall be paid by the Company the difference between the employee's regular base rate exclusive of premiums for the number of hours up to eight (8) that he otherwise would have been scheduled to work and the dailyjury duty or witness fee paid by the Court (not including travelling allowance or reimbursement for expenses). The Company's obligation to pay an employee for jury duty oraCrown witness urdsrthis section is limited toamaxinumofs/xty(60) days in a calaidar year, and in order to receive payment under this section, an employee must meet al I of the followingeligibilitytequirements:
a)	the employee shall have given twenty-four (24) hours notioa to the Company thathe has been summoned forjury duty or subpoenaed asaCrownwltnss.
b)	the employa shall furnish satisfactory evidence to the Hunan Resources Manager that he reported for and performedjury duty or appeared as a Crown wiimffis on the days far which he claims payment and shall furnish acceptable proof of the amount of jury pay or witness fesreceived by him;
c)	the employee would otherwise have been scheduled to work for the Company on the day or days for which he claims payment;
d)	when an employee is subpoenaed by the Company to testify as a witness in a grievance arbitration case the Company will reimburse the employee for lost wages at his straight time hourly rate of pay.
9.10	BEREAVEMENT
a) When death occurs in a seniority employee's immediate family (ie. current spouse, including common-law spouse, parent, parent of current spouse, stepparent, child, step-child, brother, step-brother, sister, step-sister, grandparent, spouse's grandparent or grandchild of the employee, son-in-law or daughter-inlaw) the employe on request, w i 11 be excused for a period not to exceed three
25
(3) working days, or such fewer days as the employee may be absent, immediately following the date of death and ending of the day of the funeral providing he attends die funeral.
b)	When death occurs to an employee's sister-in-law or brother-in-law, the employee, on request will be excused for the day of the funeral provided he attends the funeral,
c)	When cfeath occurs in a employee's imradintte family and the employee, for reasons of distance or personal hardship, is unable to attend the funeral, he shall be allowed a one (1) chy leave for personal grief immediately following the date of death.
d)	The employee shall not be entitled to receive any pay far any day upon which he would not otherwise be scheduled to work for the Company. Payment will be based upon the employee's straight time day work hourly rate exclusive of any premiums.
e)	in 11m event that the time allowed in 9.10 should not be sufficient to allow for extended travel or time involved in arranging for or attending the funeral, an unpaid leave of absence will be granted to cover a reasonable period of time, The Company will maintain all seniority and benefits including pension
9.11	A member of the Bargaining Committee who is temporarily assigned by
the Company to another operation because of his Sequent absence in connection vifh Bargaining Committee a±hities, will not undergo a reduction in his hourly rate because of such assignment, When his frequent absence is no longer required, he will be reinstated to his regularjob.
ARTICLE 10 -OVERTIME
10.01	For the purpose of computing overtime and premium pay, the regular work day is eight (8) hours and the regular work week is forty (40) hours, unless otherwisescheduled.
The work week shall be a calendar week beginning at 12:01 am. Mxrlay morning, exceptthat in the case of shifts beginning on Sunday evening the work week shall begin at the starting hour of the shift cn Sunday evening, A work day shall consist of the twenty-four (24) hours from midnight to midnight
26
The provisions of this Article 10 are for the purpose of computing overtime andshallnot be construed as a guarantee or limitation ofhours of work per day or per week nor as a guarantee ofworking schedules,
10.01	(a) - HOURS CF WORK
An employe whose scheduled shift starts on or after 5:00 a.m. but before 12:30 p.m. shall be deemed to be working on thefirst (day) shift; an employe whose scheduled shift starts on or after 12:30 p.m. but before 9:00 p.m. shall be deemed to be working on the second (afternoon) shift; and an employee whose scheduled shift starts on or after 9:00 p.m, but before 5:00 am. shall be deemed to be working on the third (midnight) shift.
The regular work week shall be one of forty (40) hours. For a three shift operation, the shifts are normally of eight (8) hours duration. Single shift cr two-shift
operations will be of eight (8) <r eight and one half (8%) hours duration. Eight and one half hour shifts are inclusive of e 30 minute unpaid lunch.
The Company will give the Urkn and the employees affected as mill notice
as reasonably possible of any change mnormal shift schedules.
Employes working on the second (afternoon) shift shall not be scheduled to
work overtime on weekends wi1h a starting tine less than eight (E) hours following the completion of their regular shift
10.02	In determining the hours worked by the employee for the purpose of entitlement to overtime pay, hours not worked because of a paid holiday, bereavementleave, jury duty, lay-ofif leave of absenceaeeessitated by an unavoidable problem provided written leave is requested and secured not later than the day prior to the date of the leave, shall be counted as if worked. When the company requires that additicral work be performed per day or per week, such additional work shall be compensatedfor at the rates set forth below:
a) Tine and one-half (1 1/2) will be paid for all tmworked in excess of eight (8) straight tinehours m any one (1) day, provided, however, that this rule will not apply when an employe is required to work mon than eight (E) hours in the day or forty (40) hours in the week because of:
27
j) a transfer resulting from the lay-off and recall procedure or permanent transfer procedure;
ii)	a change in drift or exchangeof shifts requested by the employee and consentedto by the supervisor;
iii)	the granting ofarequest fortransfer.
b)	Time and one-half (1 1/2) will be paid for a 11 time worked in excess of forty (40) straight time hours worked in any one (1) woik week, or, for work performed upon Saturday.
c)	Employees on the third shift (midnight drift) shall be paid time and one-half (1 1/2) for all hours worked in excess of eight (8) straight time hours in any one (1) woik day and shall be paid time and one-half for hours worked on Saturday.
d)	Tine and one-half (1 1/2) shall be paid for all tire worked on the following holidays: New Yads Day, Good Friday, Victoria Day, Canada Day, Civic Holiday, Labour Day, Thanksgiving Day, Christmas Day, Christmas Eve and Boxing Day. There shall be four (4) additional designated paid holidays, whenever any of the above enumerated holidays occur on a Saturday or Sunday, the holiday will be deserved on tte Monday after such holiday, exceptingany holiday that falls within a plant shutdown, whenever any of the above enumerated holidays occur within the period of an erpkyee's vacation, he shall substitute the first working day following the vacation period for the holiday, excepting when such holiday falls within a plant shutdown.
e)	Double (2) time will be paid for all time worked on Sunday.
10.03	REPORTING PAY
Any employee who properly reports for work ± the beginning of his regular shift, unless he has beennotified in advancenot to report, till receive at least four (4) hours' woik or shall be paid for four (4) hours at his regular straight tire earnings, except in cases of labour disputes, machinery, equipment, power or other utility breakdowns, fire, flood or any olher causes, without lirattatim,beyond the control of tbs Company, in cases where an employee properly reports for his regular shift and tbs equipment or irschinety breakdowns prevent him from completing at least four (4) hours of woik the employee shall be given four (4) hours of alternate work or shall
28
be paid sufficient to bring his earnings for the dayto the equivalent of four (4) hours at his regular straight tine rats. Whore an employee reports for work on his regular shift and is sent hone with instructions to report on a later shift, he shall be paid for two (2) hours subject to the same exceptions and conditions as s± forth m this section. An employe, other than an employee who reports for work on his regular shift and is sent home with instructions to report on a later shift, who does not accept availableworkwhenoffered shallnot be entitled to paymentfor reporting.
When an employee has not beenworking because of illness, leave of absence or any other cauas, it shall be his responsibility to arrange with the Company for his return to work at least one (1) but not more than two (2) regular working days prior to the tine of his intended return. It is the employee's duty to keep the Human Resources Office informed of his correct address and telephone number, and the Company will not be liable for any payment unless such arrangements have been made.
10.03 (a)	STAND-BY-PAY
An employee who is required by the Company to hold himself ready and availableto be called in to perform work on a Saturday, Sunday or designatedholiday will be paid four (4) hours' pay a1 his straight time rate of pay exclusive of premiums for each twenty-four (24) hour period he is required to stand-by subject to the following:
a)	Stand-bypay shall be paid in addition to any pay that the employee may be entitled to under the provisions of Article 10.04 hereof.
b)	Stand-by duty shall not be considered to be time worked.
10.04	An employee called in to do emergency work will be paid a minimum of four (4) hours' pay for such work at his regular rate. When an employee, after leaving the plant at the completion of his shift, is notified to report for work four (4) hours or less prior to his regular starting time and he is expected to work through and complete his regular shift, he will be paid for the hours worked outside his regular shift on an overtime basis if, due to a woik shortage layoff, his regular shift is less than eight hours in duration.
10.05	VUien overtime is scheduled to be performed by employees in a unit the Company will endeavour as far as practicable to equitably allocate the overtime among qualified employees of the unit who presently and normally perform the major
29
or dominant portion of the woik required. However, the Company shall not be required to interrupt prcductiai lines x group operations. An employee on an individualo p t i o n or assignment w i 11 not be displaced for overtime occurring at the end of a regular shift Employees who are absent from woik for any reason shall be considered not available for the aUocatim of overtime and shall not be entitled to be called in
10.06	It is not the intsiticnof the parties to this Agreement that the Company shall be held to an obligation of equal aUocatim of overtime but is only intended to be a general rule fix the guidance of the Company in allocating overtime. An employee who is justifiably aggrieved as a result of the Company's failure to follow this general nile shall not be entitled to money payment for overtime which has not been allocated to him in the past hut shall be entitled to be allocated future overtime to restore him to a raLatueLy equitable position with those other qualified employees in the department who presently and normally perform the o p t i o n upon which the aggrieved employee is involved
10.07	Employees working an the second (afternoon) shift shall receive fifty
five cents ($0.55) per hour as a shift barns, and employees working an the third (midnight) shift shall receive fifty five	per hour as a shift bonus. The shift
bonus will increase to sixty cents ($0.60) per hour effective January 1, 2004, and sixty-five cents (SO^SJeffective January 1,2006.
If an employee is working a regular shift he shall be paid (he shift bonus, if my, of the shift to which he assigned tin' all hours worked even though the hours woiked extended into another shift
10.08	(a) Single shift x two-shift operations which are scheduled for tight (8) hours or note shall have two (2) tm minute breaks as well as a thirty (30) rrriute unpaid lunch period.
10.08	(b) For shifts scheduled on an eight (8) hour continuous operation, there shall be two (2) ten mriutebreaks as well as a twenty mriute paid Inndi period
10.08	(c) When the Company requires more then two (2) consecutive hours of work immediately following the acnpleticn of a full tight (8) hour shift of woik, m employee shall be entitled to a rest period cf ten (10) minutes to be taken at the
beginning of the overtime hours.
30
10.08	(d) An employee who during his regular shift is requested to work four (4) or mon hours of overtime iimediately following his regular shift shall receive a meal allowance of five dollars and seventy- five cents ($5.75). The aforesaid allowancewill increase to six dollars ($6.00) effective January 1,2005.
10.09	In instance where an employee is notified prim: to his/her normal starting time that the shift will be delved and is requested to remain available for wcalc late: in the day and the shift is subsequently cancelled, the employee shall receive two (2) hours pay at his/her regular straight time rate.
ARTICLE 11 -VACATIONS
11.01	Wherever the tam "vacation year" is used in this Agreement it shall mean the year from July lstto the following Jute 30th.
11.02	The employee shall bo entitled to an annual racatim in accordance with the following schedule on the basis of his service (ie. seniority) at June 30th m each year.
-	Less thanone (1) year of service (seniority) - four percent (4%) - one (1) 4 vacation, to a maximum of nne (9) days, for each month of service in
excess of fttso (3) months;
-	One (1) year of service (seniority)but less thanfne (5) years as at June 30th -two (2) weeks;
• Five (5) years or more of service (seniority) as at June 30th-three (3) weeks;
-	Twelve (12) years or more of service (seniority) as at Jine 30th - four (4) weeks;
-	Twenty (20) or more years of service (seniority) as at June 30tfa • five (5) weeks.
11.03	The first three wedcs of the employee's vacation entitlement shall be taken in accordance with the line vacation schedule. Any additional vacation time may be taken at any tine of the year with the prior approval of the employee's supervisor.
31
In the eventthat the employee docs not have sufficient vacation entitlement for the period of the tine shutdown, or if He tine vacation schedule is greater than three weeks, the provisions of Article 8.08 (b) will apply.
11.04	Pay for the vacation to which the employee is entitled hereunder will be two percent (2%) cf wages earned in the vacation year for each week of vacation entitlement, 'Wages earned" as used in this Article 11.03 shall include tscstiai pay received by the employee during the vacation year.
Employees will have the option of receiving vacation pay in a lump sum payment on June 30s*, or by week in accordance with the line vacation schedule and any additional approved requested vacation time. Employees must make this election by January 31 of each calendaryear.
Employees will be issued with a semi-annual statement of their accrued vacation monies on request,
11.05	In cases where employees have less than 1,000 hours worked in the vacation year, and have received WS1B benefits during the vacation year, the vacation pay calculation shall include a credit for forty (40) hours for each full week during which such employee received WSIB benefits in addition to total earnings from the Company.
The vacation pay shall be reduced by the amount of WSIB benefits paid for the vacation days,
This section will only apply duringthe first year of the WSIB absence.
ARTICLE 12 -DESIGNATED HOLIDAYS
12.01 Employees shall be paid, as provided hereinafter, for New Tfeari Day, Good Friday, Victoria Day, Careda Day, Civic Holiday, Labour Day, Thanksgiving Day, Christmas Day. Christmas Eve, and Boxing Day, providing they meet all of the following eligibility rules unless otherwise provided herein:
a)	The employee has seniority as ofthe date ofthe holiday, and
32
b)	The employee must have worked the last full scheduled work day prior to and (he first full scheduled work day after the holiday.
The Company may, in its discretion, excuse an employee who provides a reason satisfactory to (he Company for his fining to comply with the provisions of this Article 12.01 (b).
c)	An employee on approved leave of absence or lay-off who would otherwise
qualify for holiday pay hereunder, shall receive holiday pay only if he has worked at least one (1) scheduled work day in die five (5) calendar days immediatelypreceding (he holiday and one (1) scheduled work day in the five (5) calendar days immediatelyfollowing the holiday.
12.02	There shall be four (4) additional designated paid holidays, making a total of fourteen (14) to be takai at a tine designated by the Company after discussion wifh the Union, It is understood that the additional holidays will be used first in conjunction wifh tie Christmas Shutdown period December 2-ldi to January 1st The Canada Day Holiday will be observed by the line and associated support groups on file work day ttri; the line's customer observes the holiday. The eligibility rules set out in Article 12.01 hereof shall also apply to the eleventh, twelfth, thirteenth, and fourteenth designated paid holidays. A schedule of holidays is contained in Appendix (b),
12.03	An cinpkftcc who qualifies under the provisions set forth in Article
12,01	hereof shall receive pay for his normal number of daily hours not exceeding right (8) for each of the holidays specified in Articles 12,01 and 12.02 hereof, computed at his straight tine base hourly rate of pay exclusiveof any premiums.
12.04	What a holiday falls during a seniority employee's vacation such holiday shall be observed on the first Monday following completion of the employee's vacation.
12.05	Employees who agree to work on a holiday and that tail to report for and perform such work, without a reason acceptable to the Company, shall not receive holiday pay under this Section.
33
ARTICLE 13 -SAFETYAND HEALTH
13.01	The Ontario BaTfti and Safety Act as it pertains to the activities of the company shallbe considered as a minimum standard for conditions in the plant.
An employee or group of employees who have good reason to believe they are being required to work under conditions likely to endanger himself/herself or fellow workers shall inform the employer a: supervisor of their refusal to perform said work The employer/supervisor shall complywith theprocedures as set out in Section 43 of the Occupational Health and Safety Act in effect at the time of the signing of this collective agreement
13.02	An employee who is injured during working hours while properly performing his duties of employment and who is sent home from work by the Company or by a physician, shall be paid for the time lost on (he day he was injured at his regular straight time rate of pay fir tee unexpired portion of his scheduled work day.
13.03	No employee shall be assigned to a j ob that has previously been refused by another employee on health and safety grounds until he/she has been thoroughly informed of the reasons in the presence of a union health and safety representative or designate.
13.04	For settee seniority employees who are eligible, and "eligible" shall mean:
i)	single employees;
ii)	employees who are married cr have dependants and whose spouse is not
receiving similar benefits at his or her place of employment, the following shall apply.
The Company agrees to obtain insurance to provide thefollowing benefits:
a)	A non-compensable Sickness and Accident Indemnity Hznto provide a benefit of sixty-six and two-thirds percent (66 2/3%) of the employee's basic wage for a fifteen (15) week period commencing upon the first day of accident or hospitalization due to illness or the fifth working day of sickness to a
34
maximum amount in accordance with the Unemployment Insurance Commission maximumpericd.
AU employees who have completed mole . three (3) years of continuous service with the Company will be provided with the aforementionedbenefits for up to twenty-six (26) weeks commencing upon the first day of accident or hospitalization due to illness or the fifth working day of sickness to a maximum amount in accordance with the Unemployment Insurance Commission maximum. The Company shall be entitled to retain one hundred percent (100%)of U.I.C. premium savings.
b)	IifeinsuranceandA,D.&D, - Taminsurance
■	Effective January 1, 2002
■	Effective January 1, 2003
■	Effective January 1,2004
• Effective January 1, 2005 - Effective January 1,2006
$31,000
$32,000
$33,000
$34,000
$35,000
c)	MajorIfeHcaLPlan with deductible$25,00 • no co-insurance.
d)	Dental Plan - the Company will provide a dental care plan. Details of the Plan are covered in the Group insurance booklet,
e)	The Company will provide a pay direct Prescription Drug Plan with a $2.00 per prescription fee.
13.05	a) For seniority employees the Company agrees to pay one hundred dollars ($100.00) toward the cost of one (1) pair of safety boots per calendar year, This amount will increase to one hundred and five dollars ($105,00) effective January 1, 2005 and one hundred and tei dollars ($110.00)effective January 1, 2006.
b) The Company will provide a subsidy for protective workwear for eligible employees. Eligible employees will be those who normally perform the jobs of general maintenance, tooling maintenance and project maintenance, lab, process, tool and machine technicians, compounding, quality and quality inspection, environmental service, and product verifier.
35
Employees who are eligible for laundry services under Occupational Health and Safety regulations shall not be entitled to the protective workwear subsidy.
The amount of the subsidy will be a maximum of $50 per calendar year. Reimbursement will be subject to the employee furnishing the Company with proof of purchase.
13.06	(a) The Company will pay the cost of prescription safety glasses at intervals of not less than twenty-four (24) months. The cost will be for lenses and frames only which comply to C.S.A, industrial StarfeiEds, purchased through the Company.
(b)	Family Eye Care
The Company will provide a Family Eye Care Plan providing a benefit of $250 once during a two year period. This includes prescription eye wear and prescription contact lenses.
(c)	RRSP/DPSP Savings Plan
The Company agrees to maintain a group Itegistered Retirement Savings Plan (RRSP) to which employees may contribute through payroll deduction, The Company will match employee contributions at a rate of 35 percent of employee contributions to a maximum employee contribution rate of 5 percent of base wage. The Company contribution will be paid into a Deferred Profit Sharing Plan (DPSP). The Company reserves the right to modify the plan or to merge the plan with any otherplan when and if these options become available.
13.07	Such benefits and plans are necessarily qualified in their entirety by reference to the underlying policies or contracts of insurance, The terms of any contract issued in respect hereof by an insurance agency or govemmentalagency shall be controlling in all mailers Pertaining to qualifications of employees for benefits thereunder and in all matters pertaining to the edstmce and extent of benefits and conditions. If the Company changes benefit canins during the life of this agreement, the Company wfll insure that the negotiated benefits are maintained.
13.08	No grievance may be processed in support of a claim or dispute with respect to the aforesaid plans, and the decision of the insurer or governmental agency involved will be final and binding upon the parties hereto and upon any employee
36
affected thereby. Nothing contained herein shall prevent the employee or the Union from taking the matter up with the Insurance company or governmental agency involved
13.09	The Company agrees to pay employees up to two (2) hours at their straighttime earnings rate for time taken to attend a medical examination required by theCompany. Thisprovisionshallapplyto seniorityemployees only.
13.10	The Company will ensure that any employee required to work alone in the plant or large area of the plant shall be protected by a patrol or check by supervisory or security personnel on at least an hourly basis.
13.11	In the event of a lay-offor plant closure, other than as a result of a strike or lockout, the Companyshall provide coverage under the benefit programs outlined in this Article 13 for a period of ninety (90) days following the lay-ofiF or plant closure. The foregoing provisions shall apply to all employees with tfirse (3) or more years of seniority at the date of the lay-off or plant closure.
ARTICLE 14 -GENERAL
14.01	The parties acknowledge that during the negotiations which resulted in this Agreement, each had the unlimited right and opportunity to make demands and proposals with respect to any subject or matter not removed by law from the area of collective bargaining, and that the understandings and agreements arrived at by the parties after the exercise of that right and opportunity are set forth in this Agreement. Therefore, the Company and the Union, for the life of this Agreement, each voluntarily and unqualifiedly waives the right, and each agrees that the other shall not be obligated to bargain collectively with respect to any subject or matter even though such subject or matter may not have been within the knowledge or contemplation of either or both of the parties at the tine that they negotiated or signed this Agreement.
14.02	BULLETIN BOARDS
The Company will provide a bulletin board for the convenience of the Union in posting notices of Union activity and Uhim educational material. All such notices must be signed by the proper officer of the Union and submitted to the hfenagsir or his authorizedrepresentative for approval before being posted. With the exception of notices limited strictlyto time, place and speaker, there shall be no posting of political
37
matter. Furthermore, there shall be no posting of matter adverse to the Company or its management.
14.03	If any provision of this Agreement is in conflict with any existing or future provincial or federal law, such provision shall become inoperative, but the validity of the remainder of this agreement shall not thereby be impaired and shall remain in full farce and effect.
14.04	NO DISCRIMINATION
The Company and the Union agree that they will not discriminate against, restrain or influence any employee solely because of race, religious affiliation or national origin.
14.05	The parties agree to maintain high standards of safety and health in the workplace and to cooperate in the continuing objective of developing a safe work environment, The parties agree to nmntamthe standards of safety, health, sanitation and work conditions in the Plant re<]uired by law. In addition, in the event that the Occupational Health and Safety Act of Ontario is modified during the life of this agreement, the parties agree to adhere to the following principles currently included in the act:
i)	The internal responsibilitysystem;
jj) The existence of, and powers of the Joint Health & Safety Committee; and
iii) The nequinementfor and mining of certified members.
14.06	When the Company d e s rules and regulations governing the operation of the Plant and posts same on the bulletin boards, violation of any of such tules and regulations by an employee will result in disciplinary action up to and including discharge. The Company will provide the Union with copies of such rules and regulations at the time they are posted, as vdl as provide the Union with copies of the polices, procedures and rules that form part of the orientation process for bargaining unit employees .The parties agree to meet to discuss any changes to such rules and regulations prior to implementation,The Company will give the Union notice of any major changes in the rules and regulations.
38
14.07	SAFETY COMMITTEE
The Company and the Union agree to establish a Safety Committee comprised of ten CLO) people, five (5) from the Ccrnpany and five (5) from the Union. It shall be the duty of this Conunitteeto meet onceamonth or more often if necessary i o discuss the safety of the plant. Ifrt-inrf-1 of the Safety Committee will be chaired on alternate norths by the Safety Coordinator and the Union Safety Chairperson. The Safety Committee will also make a safety inspection tour of the plant each ncnthL
The Company recognizes that it is beneficial for membo's of the Joint Health and Safety Committee to attend the annual USWA R/P1C Joint Labour/Management Health and Safety Symposium. The Company will grant leave to up to two (2) union members of the Joint Health and Satisfy Committee to attend the annual conference and will compensate the selected employees to a maximum of eight hours ± their straight time hourly rate for two days of training. The leave for the conference will not be accrued toward the annual leave allowance under Article 9.03 of the Collective Agreement.
14.08	PENSION PLAN
a)	The Pension Plan entitled "Textron Automotive Interiors, Hourly-Rated Employees' Pension Plan, Port Hope, Ontario", shall remain m e£fefc throughoutthe life of this Agreement.
b)	The Company will provide for credited service prior to January 1, 2002, to have pension taiefits of twenty-five dollars aid fifty cents ($25.50) per month/per year of service.
c)	The pension benefits will increase as follow s:
■ Effective January 1,2003 - $26.50 per month/per year of service
-	EffectiveJanuary 1,2004 - $27,50pamonth/peryearofservice.
-	EffectiveJanuary 1,2005 - $28.50 per month/per year of service.
-	Effective January 1,2006 - $32.50 per month/per year of service.
39
14.09	The Company's Trades Training Program shall remain effective during the life of this Agreement.
The Company and the Lhicn have agreed to mutually work toward continued airatiaBl development programs which will enhance employees' development personally and professionally.
Successful incumbents will meet the skill requirements established for skilled trades as set forth ixrferthe Ministry of Skills Development and Collins & Aikman.
Upon successful completion of the training program if a position is not available, the employee will return to the last position held in line wi1h his seniority,
a) Whenever the company installs new equipment or machinery or modernizes existing equipment or machinery, the company shall provide an adequate training program fir the operators and support staff of the craft or crafts involved. There will be no expenses incurred by the employee.
14.10	EMPLOYEE INVOLVEMENT
The parties to this Agreement recognize that employee involvement at all levels of the organization is critical to the long term id&e of the Company. While employee involvement will be encouraged it shall in no way affect the Collective Agreementand/or grievance procedure contained herein.
14.11	The company agrees that the Pension Plan, the Health Insurance Program and the letters of understanding referenced in this agreement shall form pact ofthis Agreement.
14.12	Skilled Trades employees will be paid two hundred ($200) dollars for tool allowance, Paymentto be made on February 01 (1st) of each year.
40
Skilled Trades shall mean:
1)	MaintenanceMechanic/Millwright
2)	Maintenance Fabricator
3)	indushial Instrument Electrician
4)	Refrigeration/Air ConditioningMechanic
5)	Tooling Mechanics
6)	Modular Tooling Specialists
7)	Mould Repair
8)	Mould Maker
9)	Apprentices
ARTICLE 15 -WAGES
15.01	The wages set forth in Schedule "A" hereto shall represent the miriinun rates to be in effect during the life of this Agreement.
15.02	in the event a grievance arises out of a new or changed standard, it shall be subject to the following grievanceprocedures:
1)	When Management establishes a ren standard or changes an existing standard on the job, the Union, if it does not agree with such standard after a period of not less than thu±y(30) days nor more than forty-five (45) days after suchnew standard or change is put into effect, may, within the foregoing period file written grievance. A meeting will be held between the Company and the Union within five (5) days of receipt of such written grievance. The Company will give its written decision within three (3) days of such meeting.
2)	if the Company's decision is not satisfactory to the Union, the Union shall, within five (5) days of receipt of the Company's decision, but not thereafter, file a request in writing that ajoint study be made by a representative selected by the Company and an indushial Engineer representative of the Union. The representative of the Company and the Union will jointly study the job and agree to a resolution of the grievance in writing. Each party shall tear the cost and expenses of the representativewhich it appoints.
41
SENIORITY BONUS
15.03
Employees shall be paid an additional five cents (.05) per hour for each fiv years of seniority.
ARTICLE 16 -DURATION
16.01	This Agreement shall become effective on the 1st day of January. 2002, and shall remain in full force and effect until the 31st day of December, 2006.
16.02	Notice that amendments are required shall only be given during the period of not more than ninety (90) days and not less than thirty (30) days prior t' the 31 st day of December, 2006.
DATED AT PORT HOPE, ONTARIO THIS 6th DAY CF NOVEMBER, 2001.
COLLINS& AIRMAN	UNITED STEELWORKERS CF
AMERICA AND ITS LOCAL 889L
FOR THE COMPANY:	FOR THE UNION:
Employees shall be paid an additional five cents (.05) per hour for each five years of seniority.
42
Labour
Grade
11
12
15
17
19
20 21 99
Skilled Trades: 15
17
19
20 21
PAY RATES AND LABOUR GRADES
EFFECTIVE JANUARY 1,2002
step 1 (Hire)	Step 2 (90 Days)	Step 3 (180 Days)	step 4 (270 Days)	Step 5 (Merit)
14.87	15.42	16.01	16.56	17.33
15.23	15.81	16.42	17.05	17.82
16.26	16.92	17.61	18.27	19.25
16.96	17.73	18.46	19.16	20.06
17.72	18.47	19.25	20.06	21.08
18.08	18.85	19.69	20.58	21.60
18.45	19.25	20.13	21.00	22.04
15.83	16.04	16.22	16.45	
17.40	18.06	18.75	19.44	20.44
18.10	18.85	19.63	20.35	21.26
20.92	21,72	22,52	23.33	24.35
21.60	22.41	23.26	24.14	25.16
22.60	23.41	24.30	25.16	26.20
Labour
Grade
11
12
15
17
19
20 21 99
Skilled Trades:
15
PAY RATES AND LABOUR GRADES
EFFECTIVE JANUARY 1,2003
Step 1 (Hire)	Step 2 (90 Davst	Step 3 (180 Days)	Step 4 (270 Days)	StepS (Merit)
15.32	15.88	16.49	17.06	17.85
15.69	16.28	16.91	17.56	18.35
16.75	17.43	18.14	18.82	19.83
17.47	18.26	19,01	19.73	20.66
18.25	19.02	19.83	20.66	21.71
18.62	19.42	20.28	21.20	22.25
19.00	19.83	20.73	21.63	22.70
16.30	16.52	16.71	16.94	
17.92	18.60	19.31	20.02	21.05
18.64	19.42	20.22	20.96	21.90
21.55	22,36	23.20	24.03	25.08
22.25	23.08	23.96	24.86	25.91
23.28	24.11	25.03	25.91	26.99
Labour
Grade
11
12
15
17
19
20 21 99
Skilled Trades: 15 17
19
20 21
PAY RATES AND LABOUR GRADES
EFFECTIVE JANUARY 1,2004
step 1 (Hire)	Step 2 (90 Days)	Step 3 (180 Days)	Step 4 (270 Days)	Step 5 (Ment)
15.78	16.36	16.98	17.57	18.39
16.16	16.77	17.42	18.09	18.90
17.25	17.95	18,68	19.38	20.42
17.99	18.81	19.58	20.32	21.28
18.80	19.59	20.42	21.28	22.36
19.18	20.00	20.89	21.84	22.92
19.57	20.42	21.35	22,28	23.38
16.79	17.02	17.21	17.45	
18.46	19,16	19.89	20.62	21.68
19.20	20.00	20.83	21.59	22.56
22.20	23.03	23.90	24.75	25.83
22.92	23.77	24.68	25.61	26.69
23.98	24.83	25.78	26.69	27.80
Labour
Grade
11
12
15
17
19
20 21 99
Skilled Trades:
15
PAY RATES AND LABOUR GRADES
EFFECTIVE JANUARY 1,2005
Step 1 (Hi ret	Step 2 (90 Davsl	Step 3 (180 Days)	step 4 (270 Days)	Step 5 (Merit)
16.25	16.85	17.49	18.10	18.94
16.64	17.27	17.94	18.63	19.47
17.77	18.49	19.24	19.96	21.03
18.53	19.37	20.17	20.93	21.92
19.36	20.18	21.03	21.92	23.03
19,76	20.60	21.52	22.50	23.61
20.16	21.03	21.99	22.95	24.08
17.29	17.53	17.73	17.97	
19.01	19.73	20.49	21.24	22.33
19.78	20.60	21.45	22.24	23.24
22.87	23.72	24.62	25.49	26.60
23.61	24.48	25.42	26.38	27.49
24.70	25,57	26.55	27.49	28.63
Labour
Grade
11
12
15
17
19
20 21 99
Skilled Trades:
15
17
19
20 21
PAY RATES AND LABOUR GRADES
EFFECTIVE JANUARY 1,2006
Stepl (Eire)	Step 2 (90 Days)	Step 3 (180 Days)	Step 4 (270 Days)	Step 5 (Merit)
16.74	17.36	18.01	18.64	19.51
17.14	17.79	18.48	19.19	20.05
18.30	19.04	19.82	20.56	21.66
19.09	19.95	20.78	21.56	22.58
19.94	20.79	21.66	22.58	23.72
20.35	21.22	22.17	23.18	24.32
20.76	21.66	22.65	23.64	24.80
17.81	18.06	18.26	18.51	
19,58	20,32	21.10	21.88	23.00
20.37	21.22	22.09	22.91	23.94
23.56	24.43	25.36	26.25	27.40
24.32	25.21	26.18	27.17	28.31
25.44	26.34	27.35	28,31	29.49
SCHEDULE OF STATUTORY AND DESIGNATED HOLIDAYS
6
New Y ear's Day Good Friday Designated Holiday Victoria Day Canada Day Civic Holiday Labour Day ThanksgivingDay Christmas Eve Christmas BoxingDay Designated Holiday Designated Holiday Designated Holiday
2002
January I - Tuesday March 29 - Friday April l ■ Monday May 20 - Monday *
August 5 - Monday Septarber2 - Monday October 14 -Monday December 24 - Tuesday December 25 -Wednesday December26 -Thursday December 27 - Friday December 30 • Monday December31 * Tuesday
2003
January I - Wednesday April 18 • Friday April 21 - Monday May 19 - Monday *
August 4 • Monday September I • Monday October 13 - Monday December 24 - Wednesday December25 -Thursday December 26 - Friday December 29 - Monday December 30 * Tuesday December 31 • Wednesday
IMA
January 1 - Thursday April 9 - Friday April 12 - Monday May 24 - Monday •
August 2 • Monday September 6 - Monday October 11 -Monday December 24 - Friday December 2 7 • Monday December 28 -Tuesday December 29 - Wednesday December 30 -Thursday December 31 - Friday
•aligned with customer vacation schedule

SCHEDULE OF STATUTORY AND DESIGNATED HOLIDAYS
New Year's Day Good Friday Designated Holiday Victoria Day Canada Day Civic Holiday Labour Day Thanksgiving Day Christmas Eve
2005
January 3 - Monday March 25 - Friday March 28 • Monday May 23 - Monday
August I - Monday Septembers - Monday October 10 - Monday
Decenber23 - Friday
January 2 - Monday April 14 -Friday April 17 - Monday May 22 - Monday •
August 7 * Monday September 4 - Monday
October 9 • Monday December 22 • Friday
Christmas Boxmg Day Designated Holiday Designated Holiday DesignatedHoliday
December 26 - Monday December 27 • Tuesday December28 - Wednesday December 29 - Thursday December 30 - Friday
Dacsrber25 -Monday December 26 - Tuesday December 27 -Wednesday December 28 * Thursday December 29 - Friday
•aligned viih customer vacation schedule
Collins & Alkman
North Am oil can Automotive Interior System* 128 Peter Street, P.0. Box 300 Port Hope, Ontario L1A 3W4 Phone: 905465-7231
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING#!
December 3,1981
United Steelworkers of America AFL-CIO-CLC, Local 889
Attention: Bargaining Omni-ttss
Dear Sirs and MSsdanes:
Re: GrievanceMeetings
The Company and the Union agree that from time to time, meetings between the parties, for reasons of resolution of a grievance, may extend beyond the normal working hours of the persons involved. The Company will, in attempting to schedulesuch meetings, endeavour to hold them at times most convenient to the employees involved and to minimize the amount of tine spent outside of regular working hours. However, in cases where a meeting extends beyond the normal working hours of the participants orisheldata time other than one which falls within the employees' regularshift, no compensation will be made to the employee for such time.
Yours very truly,
COIiLINS & AIKMAN
Dianne Huffinan
Hunan Resources Manager
50
Collins & Aikman
North American Automottv* inferior 8y*fem» 128 Potor Str»et. P.O. Box 300 Pat Hope, Ontario L1A 3W4 Phons: 905-885-7231
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDINGS
January27, 1998
United Steelworkersof America AFL-CIO-CLC, Local 889
Attention: BargainingCommittee
Dear Sirs and Mesdames:
Re: Shift Changes
1.	The Company and the Union agree that seniority employees who wish to change shift other than as a result of bidding pursuant to Article 8.09 shall place their name on the shift transferrequest list, indicating what shift they wish to transferto. When a vacancy occurs in the same classification on the desired shift, the transfer will be effected on the basis of the employee’s seniority. If no such vacancy exists, but a vacancy exists in LG 99 on the desired shift, the most senior employee will be assigned to the job providing he has so indicated on the shift transfer request list. This procedure shall take place prior to the posting of vacancies.
2.	Employees who exercise their right to transfer on to an alternative shift forfeit the right to bid under the provisions of Article 8.09 for a period of six months from the date of transfer.
3.	If honouring a shift transfer results in an opening on the day shift only, one additional shift transfer will be honoured.
4.	The shift transfer list will be reviewed once a month for compatible moves by seniority. A compatible move is one in which two seniority employees on the shift transfer list who desire transfers to each other’s shift, change positions. To be eligible, employees must hold the samejob classification
51
and be capableof psrfamingthe essential duties of the other’sjob. Up to three compatible moves may be effected during each month.
5.	Employees may turn down two offers to transfer before their name comes aEfthe transfer list and are not eligible to request anothertransfer for six months. Employees who accept a transfer may not make anothertransfer request for six months.
6.	Employees who transfer shifts will be given the training on the newjob specified by the QS 9000 on-the-job training schedule. Employees who fail to meet the Company’s standaids for production and quality in the time specifiedby the training schedule will be returned to their previous shiftand will have forfeitedoneoftheir offers to transfer ^panifiedin paragraph 5, If the employeewas transferred as part of a compatiblemove, both employees affected will be returnaito their previous shift.
Yours very truly,
COLLINS & AIKMAN
52
Colltns&Alkman
North Amtrtcan Automotlv* Inferior SyrtMits 128 Peter Street, P.O. Box 300 Port Hope, Ontario LIA 3W4 Phone: 905-885-7231
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #3
September?, 1984
United Steelworkers of America AFL-CIO-CLC, Local 889
Attention: Bargaining Committee
Dear Sirs and M£sdtnes:
Re: Disciplinary Notations
The Company agrees that when occasion arises to issue a disciplinaryletter of
notation to an employee, the followingguidelines will apply:
1.	The notation will be issued not more that three (3) working days following the infraction to which it refers.
2.	The notation will be issued to the employees) concerned with copiesto the Union Steward for the appropriatearea and to the employee'spersonnel file.
3.	Should a pericd of twelve (12) months lapse between the issuance of a notation and the issuance of any subsequent related notation, the original notation will not be used in a disciplinary manor against the employee.
Yours very truly,
COLLINS & AQCMAN
Dianne Huffman
Human Resources Manager
53
Collins & Alkman
North American Automotive Interior Syctema 128 Peter Street, P.O. Box 300 Port Hope, Ontario L1A 3W4 Phone: 905-685-7231
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDINGS
December 3,1984
United Steelworkersof Amrica AFL-CIO-CLC, Local 889
Attention: BargainingGrnmLttes
Dear Sirs and Mfesdames:
Re: Wages andlaflation (as agreed between parties)
Should the inflation rate exceed the total, wage increases granted duringthe first 2 years of this agreement.
The Company agrees to meet with the Union and this meeting will be for the purpose of adjustingthe 3rd year wage rates. This adjustment will provide for an increase which corresponds to the differaresbetween wage increases granted in the first 2 years of this agreement and the percent of increase in the inflation rate for the same period, as published by Statistics Canada in its Consumer Erdos index..
Yours very truly, COLLINS& AIRMAN
DianneHuffman
Hunan Rssonroes Manager
54
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #5
December 3,1981
United Steelworkersof America AFL-CIO-CLC, Local 889
Attention: BargainingCommittee
Dear Sirs and Mesdames:
Re: Bidding on postings vacated as a result of personal leaves of absence
In cases where an employee is granted a personal leave of absence, thej ob that he or she occupies at the time leave is granted shall be exemptedfor thirty (30) days fem the job posting procedure in Article 8,09 of the Collective Agreement. Should the leave continue beyond the thirty (30) day period, then the position will be filled through the normal procedure of job posting.
IfcursYery truly,
COLLINS & AIRMAN

A.
Dianne Huffman Human Resources Manager
55
M Collins & Aikman
North Awwten Automotive interior 8y terra 128 Peter Street P.O. Box 300 Port Hope, Ontario LIA 3W4 Phone: 906*885-7231
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING*.
July 1,1992
United Steelworkersof America
AFL-CIO-CLC, Local 889
Attention: BargainingCommittee
Dear Sirs and Mesdames:
In the course of negotiations,the Company has agreed to do the following:
1.	The Company will provide forpublicationofhighlightjob descriptionsto acccrapanyjob posting under Article 8.09 ofthis Agreement,
2.	The Company will implement a direct deposit systemfor employeepay. Employee pay statements will be distributed duringtheir regular shift on Thursday for day and aftemoonshift employees and Friday for thud shift employees. Employeepay statementswill be in a sealed envelope.
3.	The Company will notify the Union of any changes to anyjob classifications orjob descriptions prior to implementation,
4.	The Company will provide the Union with copies of ail hourlyjob descriptions.
5.	Duringthe 1998 negotiations, the parties agreed thatthe Union would be provided with a copy of ail tfaster Benefit Agreements.
6.	If overtime is needed on a line forthe purposes of 5S, employeeswho normally work in the designated acsawill be given the opportunity to volunteerforthe available overtime.
Yours very truly,
COLLINS & AIKMAN
Dianne Huffman Human Resources Manager
56
Collins&Aikman
North American Automottvt Interior Syttem* 128 Peter Street, P.0. Box 300 Port Hope, Ontario LIA 3W4 Phone: 905-885-7231
LETTER C(F UNDERSTANDING#?
January 1, 1999
United Steelworkersof America AFL-CIO-CLC, Local 889
Attention: BargainingCommittee
Dear Sin and Mesdames:
Re: Absentee Pool Employees
The Companymay utilize an Absentee Pool of temporary part-time personnel in the Labour Grade 99 classification. With the exception of the initial training/orientation period, Absentee Pool employees will be used to cover for the absences of full-time employees only.
The pool will have a maximum number of participants equal to 7 percent of the full-timeworkforce. Participants will consistof:
1,	Regular full-time employees on indefinite lay-off who elect to participate in the absentee pool;
2.	Part-time employees as defined in Article 1.01
In the event of a temporary layoff, full-time employees will be canvassed as to their availability for temporary work. Full-time employees who place their names on the temporary work list will be called in, as needed, on their requested shift providing they are qualifiedto perfcm the work available. Such employees are expected to be available for call-in during the following times: l1 2 shift (6-8:00 an); 2nd shift (2-4:00 pm); 3ri shift (10:00 pm - 12:00 am) and report to work promptly when called. An employee's name will be removed from the temporary work list if he/she is unavailableforwork on two occasions during the duration of the layoff. No Absentee Pool employees will be utilized when permanent
57
employees, who are on the temporary work list, are available,willing, and qualifiedto do the work.
For absentee coverage required on weekends, the Company will make a reasonable effort to contact full-time employees who are qualifiedto perform the work available. If this effort is not successful, absentee pool employees may be utilized.
Cti a weekly basis, the Union will receive an accurate list of Absentee Pool employees as well as records of hours worked each week.
Yours very truly,
COLLINS* AIRMAN
Dianne Huffman Hunan Resources Manager
58
Worth American Automotive Interior 6ytnw 128 Peter Street. P.O. Box 300 Port Hope. Ontario L1A 3W4 Phone: 905-685-7231
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDINGS
July 1, 1995
IMted Steelworkersof America AFL-CIO-CLC, Lxal889
Attention: Bargaining Committee
Dear Sirs andbferWnes:
Re: Subcontracting
The Company will not employ outside contractors when, in its judgement, existing Facilities employeesare available and capable ofperfarmingthe w o k The Company will not exencise its judgement in a biased or discriminatory manner.
Youcs very truly,
COLLINS & AIRMAN
Dianne Huffman Human Resources Manager
59
North Anwrtean Automotive Interior Systems 128 Peter Street. P.O. Box 300 Port Hope, Ontario L1A 3W4 Phone: 905-885-7231
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING#?
July l, 1995
United Steelworkers of America AFL-CIO-CLC, Local 889
Attention: BargainingCommittee
Dear Sirs and Mesdames:
Re: Transfer Poky
1.	The Company and the Union agree that seniority employees who wish to change lines shall place their name on the Line Transfer Request List, indicatingwhatlinetheywishtotransferto. When a vacancy occurs on the desired line, the transfers will be effected on the basis of seniority. To be eligible, employees must be actively working when a line transfer becomes available. Employee’s workperfamanceand absentee records will be taken into consideration when sdecticnsare made.
2.	The transfer list will be reviewed once a month for compatible moves by seniority, A compatible move is one in which two saimty employees on the line transfer list who desire transfers to each other’s line, change positions. To be eligible, employeesmust be on the same shift, hold the samejob classification,and be capable of performing the essential duties of the other’sjob. Up to three compatible moves may be effected during each month.
3.	Employees who transfer lines will be given the training on the newjob specifiedby the QS 9000 on-the-job training schedule. Employees who fail to meet the Company’s standards for production and quality in the time specifiedby the training schedulewill be returned to their previous line and will have forfei ted one of their offers to transfer specified in paragraph 2, If
60
the employee was transferred as part ofa compatible move, both employees affected will be returned to their previous line.
4.	Em ployees may turn down two offers to trarisfer before their name comes off the transfer list and are not eligible to request another transfer for six months. Employees who accept a line transfer may not make another line transfer request for six months.
Forms very truly,
COLLINS & AIRMAN
Dianne Huttman ' Human Resources Manager
61
Collins&Aikman
North American Automotive Interior Syetemi 128 Peter Street, P.O. Box 300 Port Hops. OntarioLIA 3W4 Phone: 905-885-7231
LETTER C(F UNDERSTANDING#!!)
July 1,1995
United Steelworkersof America AFL-CIO-CLC, Local 889
Attention: Bargaining Committee
Dear Sirs and Madams:
Re: Plant Closure
In the event of a full plant closure during the life of this agreement,the Company and the union will meet to discuss the impact of the company’sdecision.
Yours very truly,
COLLINS* AIKMAN
Dianne Huffman Human Resources Manager
62
Collins & Aikman
North American Automotive Interior Systems 128 Peter Street P O Box 300 Port Hope, Ontario L1A 3W4 Phone: 905-885-7231
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #11
July 1, 1995
United Steelworkersof America AFL-CtO-CLC, Local 889
Attention: BargainingCommittee
Dear Sirs and Mesdames:
Re: Union Leave of Absence
The company agrees to provide the union president or designate sixteen (16) hours per week paid union time, and union treasurer or designate thirty-two (32) hours per month unpaid union time for the purpose of conducting legitimate union business. During the allowed time, the company will maintain all seniority and benefits including pension.
Youcs very truly,
COLLINS & AIKMAN
Dianne Huffman Human Resources Manager
63
Collins&Alkman
North Aiwricwi Automotfv Iwtwlor Sy»twn» 128 Peter Street, P.O. Box 300 Port Hope, Ontario L1A 3W4 Phone: 905-885-7231
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING# 12
December5, 1996
United Steelworkersof America AFL-CIO-CLC, Local 889 Attention: Bargaining Committee Dear Sirs and MfeEdfenes:
Re: l&iparaiy Job Postings
This letter outlines the policy to be followed when posting a temporaryj ob vacancy arising from an approved leave of absence, other than a personal leave. The purpose of the policy is to provide a system that allows employees to return to the samejob classification and shift following an approved leave of absence, other than a personal leave.
This policy is applicable to all seniority employees in labour grades 11-21 and labour grade 99 inspectoratTextron Automotive Company, Etart Hope, Ontario who are granted a leave of absence, other than a personal leave.
Procedure:
1.	The Company shall be able to fill a temporaryj ob vacancy for a peri od of thirty (30) days during which time thejob shall be posted. Employees working duringthe first thirty (30) days shallnothave such time taken into consideration for qualifications.
2.	The temporaryj ob will be posted for three (3) days. The posting will state:
a)	the fact that thejob is tsnparary;
b)	the expected term of the position;
c)	theshift;
d)	the requirsioits; and
e)	labour grade.
3.	When filling a temporaryjob vacancy, shift and line transfer requests will not be considered.
64
4.	In filling atemporaryjob vacancy, Article 8.06 will apply.
5.	If the employee awarded the temporaryjob bid holds a bid position, thatj ob will be filled at the ocnpary'sdiscretion for the remainder of the leave. If the leave extends beyond six months, or if the company has knowledge that it will extend beyond six months prior to that cate, those positions filled at the company’s discretionwill be posted as temporary. Employeesplaced it the company’s discretion shall not have such time in thejob taken into considerationfor qualifications,
6.	All employeeson temporary assignment will retain their rights to apply for permanent positions and their rights to permanent shift transfers in their permanent classificationthat may become available during the term of the temporary assignment.
7.	If the employee awarded a temporaryjob vacancy is successful in bidding on a permanent position or accepts a permanent shift trans fer, the temporary job will then be filled ± the company’s discretion for the remainder ofthe leave.
8.	At the end ofthe approved leave, the incumbent on leave will be placed back in the vrak force following the provisions of Article 9.06, providing they are able to perform the essential duties of thejob. The employee awarded the temporaryj ob bid along with all employeestemporary assigned will be placed back in his/her previous classification, if the classification still exists; otherwise,the provisionsof Article 8.07 apply.
9.	If the incumbent on leave quits or loses seniority while on leave, the position will be rebid as a permanent] ob vacancy.
10.	Employees awarded a temporary bidjob shall have such time in thejob taken into considerationfor qualifications.
Yaucs very truly, COLLINS & AIRMAN
Dianne Huffman
Human Resources Manager
65
Collins &Alkman
North Amwfean Automottv* Interior System* 128 Peter Street. P.O. Box 300 Pori Hope, Ontario L1A 3W4 Phone: 905-885*7231
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING#^
January 1,1999
Tinted Steelworkers of America AFL-CIO-CLC, Local 889
Attention: Bargaining Committee
Dear Sirs and MEfdhnes:
Duringthe 1998 negotiations, the parties discussedhow Maintenance Mechanic/Millwrights transferwithin the classification^) the various jdbsthat may firm time to time exist.
Toclarifythe intention ofthe parties, it is agreed that when a vacancy arises within the aforementioned classification,existing Maintenance Mechanic/Millwrights will have the opportunity to move into the vacancy on the basis of seniority, providing they are able to satisfactorilyperform the work that is to be done. Employees’ attendanceand performance reoands will be taken into account in this selection.
The resulting opening created from the process described above will be bid in accordance with Article 8.09.
Y omvery truly,
COLLINS&AMMAN
Dianne Huffman HurranResources Manager
66
Collins & Alkman
North American Automotive Interior System* 128 Poter Street, P.0. Box 300 Port Hope, Ontario L1A 3W4 Phone: 905-885-7231
LETTER C(F UNDERSTAND ING#14
October 8, 2001
United Steelworkers of America AFL-CIO-CLC, Local 889
Attention: Bargaining Committee
Dear Sirs and MEsriaTEs::
In fillingpenransit j ob vacancies, unlessthe provisions of Article 8.07 (d) apply, the company will follow the following procedure:
1.	Honour a line transfer in accotdance with Letter of Understanding#*},
2.	Usethe leanpool to fill the resulting vacancy in accordance with the Lean Pool Policy.
3.	Iflhere. is no leanpool employeeonthe same shift, honour a shift transfer for the resulting vacancy in accordance with Letter of Understanding#2.
Followthejobpostingprocedure in accordance with Article 8.09 forbidjobs, use a lean pool employee, recall from layoff, or recruit as appropriate.
■Jours very truly,
COLLINS &AKMAN
Dianne Huffman Human Resources Manager