AGREE A ENT
betweei
CANADIAN FABRICA ED PRODUCTS A Division of Chrysl r Canada Ltd,
and the
National Automobil and Agricultural Workers Union c (CAW-Car^la)
Aerospace fiplement Canada,
December 16, it'92
00882 (04)
TABLE OF COI^TENTS
PURPOSE .
RECOGNITION NON DISCRIMINATION.
UNION SECURITY AND CHECK-OFF RESERVATIONS TO MANAGEMENT UNION REPRESENTATION .
UNION REPRESENTATION - OVERTIME ................
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE.............................
DISCIPLINARY ACTION ............................
Notices.....................................
DjscJrar.geand Suspension...................
Suspension..................................
Wstflrarge..................................
NO STRIKES OR LOCKOUTS..........................
SENIORITY ......................................
Probationary Employees......................
Loss ci Seniority...........................
Seniority Ust...............................
JOB POSTING ....................................
PermanentVacancy............................
Non-Eligibility................................
General Vacancies...........................
Day Shift Vacarrcrcs........................
Disqualifications...........................
TemporaryJob Posting........................
TemporaryTransfers..........................
Transfer ProcedureWithin Department/To Another Def Departments .
LAYOFFS
General Provision Layoff surplus Layoff
ARTICLE PAGE
1	1
2	1
3	1
4	2-3
5	3
6	4-6
7	7
8	7-11
9	11
9.1	11
9.2*9.3	11-12
9.4	12
9.5-9.7	12
10	13
11	13
11.2-	11.4	13*14
11.5	14
11.6	15
12	15
12.1	15
12.2	15
12.3-	12.6	15-16
12.7	16*17
12.8*12.13	17*20
12.14	20
12.15(a)	20
12.15{b)-12.18	20-22
12.19	22
13	22-23
13.4-	13.9	23-25
13.10	25
1
ARTICLE
PAGE
Notice of Layoff..................
Temporary Assignment of Sewers....
RECALLS .............................
MODEL CHANGE LAYOFF and RECALL. .
ANNUAL INVENTORY -CYCLECHECK INVENTORY
GENERAL....................... . .
FOR MATION/DISCONTI NUANCE of a MULTI-SHI
General..................................
Article....................... ...
SEWER TRAINING PROGRAMME....................
SALARIED RETURNTO THE BARGAINING UNIT
PRODUCTION STANDARDS........................
HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME..................
Normal Workweekand Shifts................
Change in Starting Time .................
Overtime.................................
Reponing Pay.................. . .
Stand-by Allowance.......................
Call-back Allowance......................
First3 Minutes Late in Any One Week - NoPaylDeduction
Multi-Shift Program......................
Specialized Training Movement/Rotatlon ,	.
PAID HOLIDAYS...............................
VACATION PAY.,..............................
LEAVE OFABSENCE.............................
General..................................
Personal.................................
Sick Leave........................
Pregnancy Leave,..................
Adoption Leave................... .
Bereavement Pay...................
Union Office Leave ...............
Conviction - Arising Out of the Operation of afv |>tor Vehicle
13.12	25-26
13.13	26
U	26-27
15	27
16417	27-28
18	28
19	28
19.1	28
19.2	29-31
20	32-33
21	33
22	35
23	35
23.1-	23,4	35-36
23,5	36
23,6-23,13	36-30
23.14	38
23.15	38
23.16-23,17	39
23.18	39
23.19	39
23.20	40
24	40-43
25	44-46
26	47
26.1-	26.3	47-48
26,4	48
26.$	48
26.6(a)	46-49
26.6(b)	49
26.7	49-50
26.8	50
26.9	51
it
ARTICLE
PAGE
Jury Duty Leave Elected Office HEALTH AND SAFETY
WASH-UP PERIOD AND REST PERIOD...............
Wash-up Period.............................
Rest Period when Overtime is more than one hour ...
BULLETIN BOARDS..............................
WAGES........................................
Scale of Wages Probationary Starting Rates.
Pay on Thursday............................
Night Premium..............................
Scheduled" Classifications ................
Overpayment d Wages........................
COST-OF-LIVING ALLOWANCE ....................
ENTRY OF PLANT PREMISES .....................
INTERPRETATION CLAUSE........................
SKILLED TRADES...............................
AUTOMATIC SHORT WEEK BENEFIT PLAN............
INJURY AT WORK...............................
GENERAL ARTICLE .............................
DURATION.....................................
GROUP INSURANCE AND GROUP HEALTH CARE BEN GENERAL PROVISIONS AND ADMINISTRATION . .
26.10
26,11
27
28 28.1 28.3
29
30
30.2
30.3
30.4
30.5
30.6
31
32
33
34
35
36
37
38
rs
in
51
51
52
53 53 53
53
53
53-55
55
56
57-	50 58
58-	60 60 61
61-67
68-69
70
70
71
72
LETTEF
SUBJECT
U FUNDING FOR EDUCATION PURPOSES. . . JOB MOVEMENT -SEWING DEPARTMENT .
HOLIDAY PAY -TEMPORARY LAYOFF......
OVERTIME 0N PARTIAL/SINGLE SHIFT OPERA' OVERTIME SCHEDULED ONE HOUR OR LESS . TRANSPORT DRIVER (U) HOUR PAID LUNCH . MULTI-SHIFT - HOURSOFWORK SCHEDULE.
DRUG AND ALCOHOL ABUSE.............
JOB ROTATION - DOORLINE. DIELECTRIC ANC
MANUAL BUTTON OPERATIONS.........
FAILURETO PUNCHTIME CARD ..........
UNION NOTIFICATION ON NEW EQUIPMENT ..
APPRENTICESHIP PROGRAMME...........
SKILLED TRADE'S TOOLS .............
COVERALLS/SMOCKS ..................
TRAINING - NEWTECHNOLOGY ..........
S&A AND WCB RETURN TO WORK PROGRAM
JOB OPPORTUNITY I N A NEW PLANT ...
PAY SHORTAGE GREATER THAN FOUR (4) HO
IN PLANT LIGHTING AND FANS.........
ACCESS ROAD........................
DISTRIBUTION OF LITERATURE.........
HEALTHS SAFETY.....................
WAREHOUSE (CITY OF STRATFORD)......
CONTRACTING -MAINTENANCEWORK.......
VACATION SCHEDULING................
SEXUAL HARASSMENT..................
NEW HIRE INTRODUCTION..............
U FUNDING -CHILD CARE..............
ENVIRONMENTAL COMMITTEE............
SAFETY SHOE ALLOWANCE .............
OVERTIME RECORDING PROCEDURES......
LETTER NO.	PAGE
1	73
2	74-75
3	76
4	77
5	78
6	79
7	80-81
a	82
9	83
10	srt
11	85
12	86
13	87
14	88
15	89
16	90-91
17	92
18	93
19	94
20	95
21	05
22	97*99
23	99
24	100
25	101
25	102
27	103
28	104
29	105
30	106
31	107-10B
SUBJECT
ERGONOMICS................ ......
COLATABLE ...........................
JOB ASSIGNMENT PRACTICES.............
UNION DUES DEDUCTIONSFORRETIRESS.....
WAGE RATE - PACKER/OPERATOR, FALES LEADE
FALES SET-UP LEADER................
QUALIFICATIONSAND TESTING FOR VACANCIES PNEUMATIC ATTACHMENTS TO SEWING MACHINl LEADER -EXERCISE SENIORITY	.	.
SHIFT CHANGES FOR PERSONAL REASONS...
LIFT TRUCK OPERATION -TRADES
PLANT ENTRANCE/EXIT * PLANT EXIT DOORS . . .
LOCKERS..............................
REINSTATED GRIEVANCES................
REDUNDANT DEPARTMENTS................
NEWHIRE SEWER........................
WAGE PROGRESSION/COLA................
TUITION REFUND.......................
CLASSIFICATION DELETIONS.............
SELF DIRECTED WORKFORCE..............
LETTER NO.
NO	PAGE
32	109
33	110
34	111
35	112
36	113
37	114
38	115
39	116
40	117
41	110
42	119
43	120
44	121-122
45	123
46	124
47	125
48	126-127
49	128
50	129
ARTICLE1 - PURPOSE
1.1	The general purpose of this agreement is to establish mutually satisfactory
relations between the Company and its Employee prompt and equitable disposition of grievances and working conditions, hours and wages for all employes who are subject to the provisions of this agreement.
, and to provide machinery for the o establish and maintain satisfactory
ARTICLE 2 - RECOGNITION
2.1	The Company recognizesthe Uniona; of all employees at its Stratford plants, save and exi rank of foreman, technical personnel and all offic< excluded from this agreement, as set-out above wil a supervisory capacity except in the cases of proy instructing employees and for experimental purpo: nature is required or in the cases of proven emergfi an operator, will notify the area committee membt experimental work or work in the cases of proven smerqencv.
tne sole collective bargainingagency ept for: foreman, persons above the and sales staff. Those employees not perform any work other than of n emergency, or for the purpose of es. When work of an experimental ricy, the foreman, in the absence of in writing prior to performing such
ARTICLE 3 - NON DISCRIMINATION
3.1	There shall be no discrimination, intertprenc©, restraint or coercion by or on behalf of the Company regarding any employee blcausa of membership in the Union.
The Union, its members and/or agents shall no intimidateany employee of the Company, and sha conduct Union activitiesexcept as hereinexpressl;
intimidate or coerce or attempt to not, on Companytime or premises, provided.
3.2	The Company and Union agree to observe the applicable provisions of the^ Ontario Human Rights Code.
ARTICLE 4 - UNION SECURITY AND (JtHECK-OFF
\	4.1 All present seniority employer p, who are members of the Union shall remain
members of the Union, as a condition of employment which membershipfor the purpose
of this Agreement shall be confined to the

of initiationfees and dues.
4.2	Present probationary er
completion of the probationary period shal become and remain members of the Union, as a condition of employment, Membershi 3 for the purpose of this Agreement shall be
confined to the payment of the initiation fee
applied to all employees. Probationary emp loyees as a condition of employment will pay monthly dues in conformity with the Consti ution of the Union.
4.3	The Company will deduct frorji and the monthly dues authorized by the 0 fee and monthly dues will not be deducted
4.4 All sums deducted as above,
and regular monthly dues which are equally
the pay ot each employee, the initiation fee dhstitution of the Union, except that, Initiation together from any one pay period.
together with a record of those from whose
pay deductions have been made and the amounts of such deductions, together with a list of employees whose employment is term hated, transferredout of the bargaining unit, or any employeewhere no deduction has b ten made shall be remitted by the Company to the Financial Secretary of the Local Union by the 15th of the month following the end of the month in which the deductions were made. The Company will indudeTotal Union Dues on the T-4 slips as authorized by the Jnion.
4.5 Deductions shall be made froi hours or receive forty (40) hours pay in outstanding dues owing. The Union shall hi of all such deductions made in accordance
ip all hourly employees who work forty (40) lieu of work In any one month or have icjld the Company fully Indemnified in respect With the Agreement.
If at some future date the Company committees deduction of Union dues on a weekly basis at other plants or locations, the ComtiJny will follow the same procedure at Canadian FabricatedProducts.
ARTICLES - RESERVATIONS TO MANAGEMENT
5.1	The Union acknowledgesthat it is thelexciusive function of the Company to hire, promote, demote, transfer, layoff, discipline, suspend or dischargeany employee for just cause, provided a claim by an employee, who las been employed for more than fifty (50) calendar days, that he has been discharged, dsciplined or suspended without just cause may be the subject of a grievance and dea with as hereinafter provided.
5.2	The Union further recognizes the ri |i t of the Company to operate and manage its business in all respects in acco tlance with its commitments and
responsibilities. The location of the plants, the
schedulesof production, the methods, processes e id means of manufacturingare solely and exclusively the responsibility of the Company The Company also has the right to make, alter and enforce, from time to time, rules a id regulations,to be observed by the employees, but which rules and regulations shall rpt be inconsistentwith the provisions of this Agreement.
products to be manufactured, the
Any newor revised rules or regulations to b| explainedindetailto the Union plant committee prior to implementation.
5.3	Nothing in this agreement shall be dbemed to restrictthe management in anyway in the performance of all functions of rrllanaaement except those specifically abridged or modified by this agreement.
5.4	The Company agreesthat it will not dxercise its management rightsfor the purpose of restricting or limitingthe rights of itsem iloyees hereingranted, and the above functions will be exercised in a mannerconsisterl with the terms of this agreement.
ARTICLE6 - UNION REPRESENTATION
6.1 The Company recognizes a coi by the Union consisting of five (5) committer a Chairperson and the local Union President Company as the grievance and negotiating ^^negotiating meetings, the committee will be ^ through Friday inclusive) at their regular rate committee member will represents specific t| by the Union. The plant chairperson, at his per week on Union business at his regular allowance.
irjimittee of eight (8) to be elected or selected members - one (1) from the skilled trades The Committee shall be recognized by the committee. When at Unlon/Company daid up to eight (8) hours per day (Monday
The Company further agrees to provid^ the Union with a desk, chair, filing cabinet, and enclosed office.
In addition to the present union office ■	the Company will provide a separate
enclosed office for the President and a separa :e enclosed office for the Union Health and Safety Committee with a telephone, desk, cha r and a filing cabinet in each. An extension telephone with additional extension button wil to that extension will be paid for by the Unior.
of
pay, plus Cost of LivingAllowance. Each eographic area in the plant as designated tjliscretion, will be permitted forty (40) hours hourly rate of pay, plus cost of living
6.2	The Union will supply the Compel members and Union representatives and the of supervisory staff. The Company will notify tHi for a period of one month or more, to another
6.3	Notwithstanding his seniority stai us, the plant chairperson of the committee shall be required to work only on the day shif: and shall have top plant seniority for the duration of his term of office. The chairperson upon completion of his tenure in office will return to his former department, and classificat bn which he held at the time of his election or selection, seniority permitting.
be Installed and all long distance charges
ny with an up-to-date list of all committee Company will supply the Union with a list e union if a supervisor is to be transferred, department or section.
A-
6.4	The Unioncommitteemembersshallniitberequiredtoworkonashiftother
than the day shift and shall have top plant wide sen Union shall have the right to appoint matching alt second shift activities where the second shift plant Should the second shift population drop below 300 committee members shall not exceed (2). One al appointed for any third shift. The Company furthe committee should the employment level on the third additional alternate committee personson that shift
ority during their term of office. The irnate committee members for any >opulation exceeds 300 employees, employees, the number of alternate ernate committee member shall be agrees it will meet with the Union hift increase significantly, to discuss
6.5	It is understood and agreed that co employees have regularduties to perform. Committ foreman of the department where they are respecf during their working hours, without loss of pay or c regular duties for a reasonable length of time to ai geographic area. Upon entering another departmeflit the supervisor concerned. Access by committee regular first shift hours must be restrictedto a reaso only when the personnel department representative been properly notified as to the purpose and prest such access is on Union time not paid by the Corr ji
nmittee members as well as other e members,with the approvalof the ively employed, shall be permitted, jst of living allowance, to leave their it just and present grievances in their the committee member shall notify members during hours other than table time period and will be allowed or night plant superintendent have nee by the committee person. Any any.
6.6	Committee Members shall not be transferred out of the geographic area in which they havejurisdiction in the plant so long as they are willing to perform the available work in the said area, except incases cf emergenc \ and then on a temporary basis so long as such emergency exists. Inthe event of a ayoff, Committee members shall be continued at work as long as work in their respectiv i areas and jurisdictions is available, regardless of their seniority, provided they are at>i j and willing to perform the normal requirements of the job in the normal time, with pro per iob instruction.
5
6.7	The Company will meet with arising during the time this agreement is in co-operate in the administration of this agri
the plant committee on all matters properly effect and the Company and Committee will Aement.
The Union will have the right to have of the Union present at all meetings of the meetings shall be held at the request of eithi tr submitted at least 48 hours before the meet agrees to provide a written response to the
6.8	A committee member who is regular hourly rate plus cost of living allow;:
6.9	Local Executive Officers
The Company agrees the President t at a rate of pay which is the regular rate President would be normally assigned.
National Representatives and the President Plant Committee and Management. Such party providing an agenda is prepared and :|ng except in an emergency. The Company Union Committee within 5 working days.
an hourly rated employee shall be paid his
;)nce.
the Union will be on the day shift and paid of pay for the classification to which the
During periods of production the assignments in his/her classification.
F resident will not be expected to perform
The President will conduct Local Unicn and perform the duties rf Benefits Represent ai tenure in office will return to his former depart|mi time cf his election, seniority permitting.
In the absence of the Presidentthe the local Union to assume responsibility of
business as it pertains to the Local Union itive. The President upon completion of his ient, and classificationwhich he held at the
C jmpany shall recognize a Vice-president of the President.
6.10	The Company agrees that the will be allowed a reasonable amount of time as it pertains to the collective agreement.
ecording secretary and financial secretary (durina their shift to conduct local business
ARTICLE 7 - UNION REPRESENTATION-OVERTIME
7.1	When overtime is scheduled In a committee person will be offered the opportunity! more employees are required, provided he is qual done.
7.2	If 10 or more employees are required
plant, rather than in any one specified geographic il area, the plant chairperson or his
designate will be given the opportunity to attend
employees, to a minimum of 5, are required on ovi dime for work throughout the plant,
the plant Chairperson or his designate will be given is qualified to perform one of the jobs to be done.
on overtime for work throughout the
o Union business If less than 10
the opportunity to work provided he f the majority of the production shift
is scheduled the President will perform the duties c f the function
ARTICLES - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
8.1	Should any misunderstandingor cont oversy arise between the Company and the Union as to the compliance of either party i ith any of its obligations hereunder, or should there be any grievance involving he terms of this Agreement by an employee, or a group of employees, or the Unior, the same shall be handled in the following manner, provided, however, that nogriev mce shall be considered, the alleged circumstances of which originated or occurred mo e than six (6) normal working days prior to its first presentation in accordance with ie procedure set out herein, except that this limit shall not apply where an alleged grii vance is of such a nature that the employee or the Union, as the case may be, coul< not have been aware of its alleged occurrence at the actual date of same, the griev; nee shall then be deemed to have occurred on the first date on which the employee) <
or the Union could have had such
awareness.
Committeeperson/aiternate Salaried person involvedfor
^ill present a 3 part complaint form to the
eceipt
2. One copy to be returned to c ommitteeperson/aiternate
Discussion of complaint to involved and the areacommi
Followingthe meeting, the sa working days, disposition Personnel, and one copy to
take place with employee, salaried person teeperson/alternate of the employee
aried person will acknowledge, within (2) two the complaint and return one copy to ie Committeeperson/aiternate involved
Committee received the complaint form.
A meeting between the Departmental Manager or his designate, the salaried person involved,the Committeepersonandfrievor involvedwill beset upwithin2 normal
working days to try to resolve such grievance. Folln Manager has two normal working days to rep Grievance answers will be left In the provided Unic i
wing such meeting the Departmental y to the Union Committeeperson. mail basket In Personnel.
Step No. 3
If the decision of the Departmental Manager
his designate is not acceptable, the trnit the grievance to the Personnel
Union plant chairperson or his designate may su j Manager or his designate within two working days i if receipt of the reply in writing by the Departmental Manager or his designate. A meetinc between the President of the Union, the Committee, the Personnel Manager or his dec involved or his designate, will be set up within 5 n armal working days to try to resolve such grievance; the grievor, and the National Repr asentative may attend at the Union's discretion. The Plant Manager or his designate a grievance meeting.
Following such meeting the Company shal normal working days of such meeting.
8.2	It is understood that the Manageme complaints with respect to the conduct of the Unic or employees of the Bargaining Unit, and that if si settled to the mutual satisfaction of the parties, it referred to arbitration in the same way as the grie\
8.3	It is understood that there could interpretation and/or application of the terms of th of this nature occur a grievance in writing at the chairperson or his designate and submitted to the P 2 days of the disagreement.
A meeting between the President ot the U
his option will attend the 3rd Stage
give its written disposition within 5
it may bring forward in writing any t, its officers or committee member, ch complaint by Management is not may be treated as a grievance and ance of any employee.
be differences of opinion on the > agreement. Should any difference 3rd Stage may be initiated by the irsonnel Manager by the Union within
non, the Committee, the Personnel
Manager or his designate and the department manpger or designate involved will be set
up within 3 normal working days to try Representativemayattend at the Union's disli at his option will attend the 3rd Stage grievs
Following such meeting the Compaq normal working days of such meeting.
to resolve such grievance; the National cretion. The Plant Manageror his designate nee meeting.
y shall give its written disposition within S
8.4	After exhaustingthe grievance requests that a grievance be submitted to ; writing, within 20 working days after the gri addressed to the other party to this Agree arbitratorwho shall be chosen by the parties such written request. If the parties canno period, either party may apply to the Mir|i arbitrator, and any arbitrator appointed by hi jurisdiction herein. The decision of the art Company and Union. Under no circumstance the date when a grievance occurred.
8.5	The arbitratorshall not be authcji the provisions of this Agreement, norto alter, except that the arbitrator may dispose of a mannerwhich he considers just or equitable
8.6	Arbitrationshall be heard at <
be agreed upon by the parties.
8-7 Each of the parties hereto shall
shares.
8.8 Grievances not appealed representatives^ any of the steps ofthegriey;
procedure hereinprovided,when eitherparty rbitration they shall make such request, in ;vance has been dealt with in Step No. 3, The arbitration shall be by a single by agreement within five working days after agree upon the arbitrator within the said ster of Labour for Ontario to appoint an shall be accepted by the parties and have trator shall be final and binding upon the esshall retroactive pay be awarded beyond
rized to make any decision inconsistentwith modify or amend any part of this Agreement iy discharge or discipline grievance in any within the law.
Straford, Ontario,or at such other place as may
sear the expenses of the arbitrator in equal
the written disposition of the Company's ance procedure within the times and inthe
manner specified herein shall be considered as he disposition last made and shall not be eligible for f Jrther appeal.
8.9 Timelimitsas outlined in this articlemlav be extended by mutual agreement at Union/Management level.
ARTICLE 9 - DISCIPLINARY ACTION
9.1	Warning Notice
A copy of all warning notices will be given td the employees and the Union within two (2) working days of the violation becoming known to the Company. Such notice shall become a part of the employee's personnelrec	warning notice will not remain in
effect for a period of more than twelve (12)	from the date of such warning.
e's record after (18) months. The plinary interviews. In any case of ), the employee will be interviewed by >ence of his committeeperson or his
Suspensions shall be removed from an employ committee person concerned will attend all disc discipline where suspension or discharge is involve the Personnel Manager or his designate,in the pre designate, prior to such suspension or discharge V iking place, providing always that the employee is available for prior interview. The com nittee person or his designate will be advised of the employee involved, the violation, ar violation immediately prior to this interview.
1 the circumstances surrounding the
9.2	Discharge and Suspension
Any employee employe	0) calendar days, who has been
discharged or suspended shall have an interviev with his committee member, Plant Chairpersonor designate inthe Union Office. Any i mployee employed for more than fifty (50)calendardays, who has beendischargedor s ispended on the 2nd or 3rd shift shall have an interviewwith his alternate in the Union 0 fic:e. On completion of this interview a discharged employeewill leave the plant. Under :ircumstances which mightendanger the safety of the employee concerned or other employees, or be of such a nature that it
would be inadvisableto retain the emplo1 required to leavethe premises immediatel
!e in the plant then such employee will be
9.3	At the request of the Union i hearing will be set up by the Company between the Personnel Manager or hi designate and the Chairperson and plant
ing will be set up within one normal working , and the foreman may be present at such O'. The Company will give a written answer
9.4	Suspension
If the Union is not satisfied with thq grievance maythen be filed at StepNo. 3 procedure shall therefore apply, All susp^i consecutiveworking days.
9.5	Discharge
disposition or the case at such hearing, a :he grievanceprocedureand suchgrievance nsions of more than one day shall be on
If the Union is not satisfied with the grievance maythen be filed at Step No.3 of procedure shall therealter apply.
disposition of the case at such hearing, a he grievanceprocedure and such grievance
9.6	Failingto file a grievancewith t 5 working days from date of the discipline is^i any right under this section.
9.7	The Company agreesthat inthr the three (3) minuteswill not bedocumentec
e Company under 9.4 and9.5 abovewithin uance, the disciplined employee shall forfeit
eventan employee is latethree (3) minutes, on the employee's record card for the first
ARTICLE 10 - NO STRIKES OR LOCKOUTS
10.1	In view of the orderly procedure established by this agreement for the settling of disputes and the handling of grievance >, the Union agrees that, during the lifetime of this agreement, there will be no strikes (a: either complete or partial, and the Company agre defined by the Labour RelationsAct).
defined by the Labour RelationsAct) 3S that there will be no lockouts (as
10.2	In the event the above occurs, the Unjon will make every effort to persuade employees from participating.
10.3	The Company agrees that in the evefit of a legal strike with the C.A.W., it will not participatein any way in strike breaking.
ARTICLE 11 - SENIORITY
11.1	Fundamentally the rules herein respect employees an equitable measure of security basec the Company. Seniority, except as hereinafter pro
11.2	Probationary Employees
mg seniority are designed to give on length of continuous service with /ided, shall be on a plant wide basis.
An employee shall be temporary and on prop: The retention of a probationary employee shall be there shall be no responsibility for the re-employr|e is laid off or discharged beyond the confines of Tt
11.3	Upon the completion i
consecutive months from date of hire, an employes rights from his original date of hire and his nam provision shall not apply to an employee who volu|
ation until he has acquired seniority it the discretion of the Company and li t of a probationary employee who e Ontario Labour RelationsAct
vd
within any period f twelve (12) shall be consideredto have seniority
placed on the seniority lists This itarily resigns
13
11.4	Employees’ names shall apbear on the seniority lists in order of their respective dates of hiring and alphabetically for those names appearing on the same date. The Company shall notify the Union in wri' ,ng as any employee attains seniority status, such notice to be given within one week. Ojnce seniority is established under this section it will not be changed.
11.5	Losstf Seniority
Seniority rights shall cease for any or|e of the following reasons:
(a)	— If the employee quits.
(b)	— If the employee is discharged ^nd such discharge be not reversedthrough the grievance procedure.
(c)	— If the employee is absent for 3 forking days without advising the Company giving satisfactory reasons.
(d)	— Ifthe employeefailsto returnt to his last known address on record with reasons for such failure
(e)	— The employee is absent due to
disability leave, for a period of five (5) years
lay-off, Workmen's Compensationclaim or equal to his seniority, as of the date of his continuous absence, whichever i|k the greater.
Any such employee having exhausters seniority underArticlel 1,5e will begiven preferentialconsiderationfor re-hire.
14
11.6 Seniority List
Seniority lists, master and departmental, shall be maintained by the Company and shall be posted each three (3) months with nine ™Dies to the bargaining committee.
ARTICLE 12 - JOB POSTING
12.1 Permanent Vacancy
A permanent vacancy shall be defined as d 8pen position created by: a needto increase the work force, the termination and/or pdr ^anent transfer of an employeefrom an existing position, Vacancies will not be posted wring the scheduled vacation period.
12.2	Non-Eligibility
Non-eligibility- An employee already in a cIe ssification is not eligible to post for a job in the same classification within the same depar ment except should a vacancy occur on a day shift, then employees on a multi-shift will iave the opportunity to post for a job and vice versa in the same classification within the same department.
12.3	General Vacancie:
Inthe event the Company requires
vacancies on the day shift) they will post such vacdicies in the following manner in each casefor a periodoffortyeight (48) hours, excludfig Saturdays, Sundays and holidays.
|	7 )
All eligible seniority employees inthe bargaininguW will beallowedto apply. Selection____
for the vacancy will be based on seniority providng the applicant has the necessary £*■ qualificationsand ability to satisfactorily
15
12.4	The Company shall post the v: all eligible seniority employees will be ailowi to Article 12.3 by plant wide seniority.
icancy on the two (2) Job Posting Boards and 'i?d to apply. Selection to be made according
12.5	All resultant vacancies will be Procedure.
12.6
(a)	— Should the resultant vacancy a classification, with a rate higher than the resultant vacancy will then be posted in acc posting procedure.
(b)	— Should the resultant vacancy a the Day Shift under this agreement, the accordance with 12.4 and follow through
vacancies (other than vacancies on the Day
posted in accordance with the Job Posting
set out above, be filled by an employee in lowest base rate under this agreement, the brdance with 12.4 and follow through the job
set out above, be filled by an employee on resultant vacancy will then be posted in tf)ie job posting procedure.
(c)	— This completes the cycle of transfer under the job posting procedure for
Shift), and the Company will take such steps
as may be required to fill the remaining va :ancy if any.
12.7	Day Shift Vacancies
In the event the Company requires to such vacancies inthe following manner in eai excluding Saturdays, Sundays and holidays, of which not more than 6 to be sewers) wi continue to be posted each month thereaft h posted. The Company shall post the vacai n Boards, and all eligible seniority employees
fill a vacancy on the day shift they will post case for a period of forty-eight (48) hours, Day shift vacancies (limitedto 12 per month be posted and any further vacancies will r until all day shift vacancies have been ey Plant Wide on the two (2) Job Posting vill be allowed to apply.
The resultant vacancies will be posted in accordance with 12.4 of the job posting procedure.
Selection for the vacancy will be based on Se liority providing the applicant has the necessary qualifications and ability to satisfactorily
A total of twelve (12) employees per month to be movedwithin one month of the job posting.
This completes the cycle of transfer underthl job posting procedure for vacancies on the Day Shift, and the Company will take suchlsteos as may be required to fill the remaining vacancy, if any.
Derform the work available.
c which not more than 8 to be sewers
12.8	Disqualification
Where an employee bids for and is accep appropriatejob instruction. If, however, he fails to work efficiently within ten (10)working days, or he working days from the job posting following his a< retumedto his former department from which hewi
1.	The employeewill fill a vacancy in the se from whence he came, should a vacancy exist at
2.	Failing the above, the employee will fill classification,should one exist.
iifed for a vacancy, he shall be given i lemonstrate his ability to perform the equeststo be disqualified within (10) :eptance of the position, he shall be > transferred in the following manner:
Ition, in the classification, on the shift t re time.
3 vacancy in the department, in the
3.	Failing the above, displace the junior errployee in the classification.
4.	Failing the above, the employee will disp ace the junior employee in the plant.
12.9	An employee requesting dii further job postings for a period of ninety
12.10	The Companywill then revie date of disqualification for the permanen bidder has the qualifications to satisfactor same ten (10) day period. This shall al extended.
12.11	A vacancy may be tempor vacancy through the job posting procec Workers' Compensation, Leave of Absen leave.
Should a new hire be placed on completion of the assignment, will apply hi plant, providing the employee has the abi
A temporary positionwill be posted on long term disability leave as of twelve I
Seniority providing, an employee r twelve months or greater, will return to declared surplus under the surplus langur
An employeewho hasbidsuccessf another temporary job posting for a pe acceptance unlessthe work to which her. bid is subsequently discontinued, then th temporary job posting.
alification will be ineligible to post on any i) calendar days from date of acceptance.
n order of seniority, all eligible bidders from imporary vacancy to determine if another >erform the work who will be subject to the apply when the training period has been
/ filled, pendingthe permanentfilling of the ror as a result of sickness or accident, Pregnancy Leave of Absence or vacation
temporary position, the employee, upon sniority to displace ajunior employee inthe to perform the function.
a permanent basis should an employee be nplete months of absence.
■ning to work after a disability absence of (ir classification in the department or be
on a temporary job posting cannot accept i of three (3) months from the date of transferred as a result of such successful mployea would be free to bid on another
i td
Upon completion ol a six (6) month peri employee will have the opportunity to return to the ■ request is made in writing and submitted to the F requesting off a temporary job posting will remain o temporary vacancy.
on a temporary job posting an former classification providing such srsonnel Department. An employee i the function pending the filling of the
An employee who has bid successfully on a another job posting for a period of six (6) months work to which he was transferred as a result of discontinued, then the employee would be free to
jermanent job posting cannot accept from date of acceptance unless the luch successful bid is subsequently oid on another job posting.
An employee will be considered to have bic the completion of 10 full working days following his period may be extended by mutual agreement bet\
successfully on a Job posting upon assignment to the position. Training 'een Company and Plant Committee.
12.12	The Company will give the Union a c apy of all job postings placed on the two (2) Job Posting Boards. A copy of the appiic tnts along with successful applicants will also be forwarded to the Union. He shall be pi d the regular rate of the classification and have his name posted on the two (2) Job Posti ig Boards within five (5) working days
from date of acceptance. An employee must permanent/temporary job posting, within five wort be removed from the board, and shall receive the the start of the Payroll Week following the date thi Company to identify to the Plant Committee, nam s of employees being replaced on a temporary job posting. Successful applicant(s) will pe moved within five (5) working days following acceptance of the position.
be available to be accepted on a ng days of the date the posting is to ate of the classification no later than posting is removed from the board.
12.13	Each posting notice will define the classification requirements including the department, the shift the vacancy is on (day shift cjr multi shift) rate of pay and the work normally performed. The acceptance form for jotj postings shall include date and time posting is accepted or refused. The Company willlindicate probable shift for information purposes only, prior to applicant signing acceptance fnrm. The notice shall also indicate
19
the probable section of the department for may be altered prior to filling the vacancy, prior to signing the acceptanceform.
nformation purposes only, as the vacancy i|he employee will be advised of the sectlor
12.14
Temporary Job Posting
Temporary Job Postings will be clearlj the procedure outlined under Article 12 Job
identified as plant wide and posted as per Costing.
12.15
(a)— Temporary Transfers A temporary transfer is limited to employee's vacation and beyond that the pi or permanent unless the ten (10) working betweenthe Company and the Union. an employee that he will be absent fror Company will post the position if necessary
tin (10) working days, or duration of an on must be posted as either temporary day limit is extended by mutual consent ei, where the Company is made aware by for more than ten (10) working days the i a temporary basis under Article 12.14.
When it becomes necessary to mi classification to another, the employees shall rate of the classification they are transferred their shift.
(b) — Transfer Procedure Within Dej artment/To Another Department
1. Effective the second Monday o classifications by Department and/or Section Board at the Main Entrance for five working employees will have a further opportunity Department for consideration on the temporal
2.	Employees wishing consideration to
their names on the posting for selection within department/to another department.
olve employees from one department or >e paid the rate of their classification or the to, whichever is greater, for the balance of
each year the Company will post all except Skilled Trades) on the Job Posting d jys. Effective the second week of August to make application in the Personnel y transfers.
transfer to a temporary position will place
20
3.	Selection will be made by seniority first shift, second from another department by shit disruption of production and the applicant has the satisfactorily perform the work available. Howeve employee(s), if qualified, is not transferred, paym
rom within department or section by providing there will be a minimal necessary qualifications and ability to , in the event the highest seniority nt will be made to the employee (s).
4.	Employees which were not available due or vacation at time of posting will have 5 working application on form provided by Personnel for cor
5.	Employees re-located to another departn 5 working days from their date of transfer to consideration to temporary transfer.
to disability, leave of absence, lay-off, ij ays from their date of return to make sideration to temporary transfer.
ent, section, or classification will have make application in Personnel for
6.	The Company will select and adjust am transfer changes within five working days of application and provide a copy to the Uni in Committee.
12.16	Once the selection process has been :ompleted refusal to transfer will make the employee ineligible to transfer for three mont is unless refusal was due to medical reasons and the employee had requested and s'n ined off the ineligible transfer form In Personnel. Any employee deemed ineligible fo a three month period must make application on form provided by Personnel for cons c 12.15(b) 6.
deration subject to the terms of Article
Medical clearance and request to return to Eligibility list will be made by employee at the Personnel Department.
12.17	Once an employee has been placed on a temporary transfer and/or a temporary posting the cycle must be complete befi ire the employee is eligible for another temporary transfer. An employee with higher sen ority upon completion of a temporary transfer and/or temporary posting will not bumD a lower seniority employee once the second transfer has commenced.
21
12.18	snouid a classification havq posting,the classificationwill befilled byth within the section by shift (if such applies) and third from within the plant by shift, p productionandthe employee hasthe necejsi perform the work available.
12.19	Departments
The plant shall be divided into the
no applicants, on tne temporary transfer lowestqualified seniority employeefirst from second from within the department by shift, oviding there will be a minimal disruption of sary qualifications and ability to satisfactorily
lowing departments:
2.	Door Assembly Department
3.	Fales Department
4.	Dielectric Department
5.	Sewing Department
6.	Quality Control Department
7.	Material HandlingDepartmer
8.	Maintenance Department
9.	Central Stores
10.	Skilled Trades
Shoulda newdepartmentarisedurindlthe lifeofthis agreementthe Companyshall notify the Unionand post allvacancies on a PlantWide Postingin accordance with the job posting procedure. Shoulda newsectioi arise,fromanalreadyexistingdepartment, the Company agrees to survey the plant ati d assess the manufacturing needs for the possible reallocation of manpower. Intha event there is a new classification or a reclassificationto be instituted, such classifipation and rate of pay will be negotiated by the Company and the Union.
ARTICLE13 - LAYOFFS
13.1	Layoffs of nor longer duratior than five (5) consecutive working days, excluding Saturdays and Sundays, shall not require an adjustmentof the work force by
seniority. It is understood that the Employee required will be from the pertinent shift required to work. A layoff of one (1) week will >e by department seniortity and the pertinent shift will not apply.
13.2	An employee may exercise his plant layoff of 4 non-consecutivedays in any calendar rfonth
seniority rights after an accumulative
13.3	Where it is known that a layoff wil Saturdays and Sundays, the manpower will be adj r
13.4 General Provision Layoff In the case of any reduction of the working force, in line with his seniority, to another job which ht efficiently in a reasonable period of time, except a
exceed 5 working days, excluding isted on a plant wide seniority basis.
i employee will be entitled to transfer is physically capable of performing outlined below.
13.5 A seniority employee may exerciset s seniority rights inthe classification^!
s or less providing he has previously
below at the time of a layoff of ten (10) 1 performed satisfactorily in the classification and f^s the present physical capability to perform the work:
Gerber Operator Shipping Receiving Leader Leader- Roll Goods Dielectric- Setup/leader Leader- Door Line Quality Control Inspector Transport Driver Receivinginspector
13.6	A seniority employee may exf below at the time cf a layoff <£ ten (10)working d r the ability and necessary qualifications to within ten (10) working days from the date 1^^^
is seniority rights in the classification ys or more providing he would have e requirements of the classification aloyee exercised his seniority:
23
Gerber Operator Shipping ReceivingLeajer Leader- RollGoods Dielectric- Setup/Leadir Leader- Door Line Quality Control Inspectil Transport Driver Receiving Inspector
13.7	A seniority employee shallexfi! of a sewer at the time of a layoff, providi classificationor has satisfactorily completed Article 20 and hasthe presentphysicaloapi
13.8	Probationary employeeswillbE than one day, exceptinthe case when an err Company may retain, in additionto a senior the job is secured and no disruption of prod
13,0	In the event of a reduction in calendardays, the listed officers are to beri below the number listed, it will reduce in the
:ise his seniority rights in the classification tg he has performed satisfactorily in the is Sewing Training Program as outlined in lilityto perform the work.
the first to be laid off in any layoff of more iloyee is on a keyjob requiringtraining, the imployee, the probationary employee until iction will occur.
he work force greater than fourteen (14) tained at work. Should the work force fall Allowing order:
In no event can an employee on indefinite lajfcfi utilizethis clause to affect a recall.
13.10	Surplus * Layoff
The following procedure shall apply in the i vent of a layoff, surplus or recall. Employees declared surplus will first exercist their seniority in the classificationthey
are employed.
Employees with insufficient seniority will department, Should there not be a junior employer their seniority to displace a junior employee in Article 13, Sections 13.4, 13.5, 13.6, 13 7, in boti result of the layoff and surplus procedure may be plant will be on layoff starting with the probationary of Article 13, Sections 13.4, 13.5,13.6, 13.7 in bo
lisplace a junior employee in their in the department then they will apply tijje plant, subject to the provisions of the department and the plant. The that the most junior employees in the employees, subject to the provisions h the department and the plant.
13.11	Employees declared surplus on a s
seniority in the classification on the steady day hift, secondly they will exercise their seniority in the classification they are employed.
eady day shift will first exercise their
7^
Employees with insufficient seniority will displace a junior employee in their department. Should there not be a junior employe! in the departmentthen they will apply their seniority to displace a junior employee in t ie plant, subject to the provisions of Article 13, Sections 13.4, 13.5, 13.6, 13.7, in bot i the department and the plant The
result of the layoff and surplus procedure will be plant will be on layoff starting with the probationat
hat the most junior employees in the employees, subject to the provisions
of Article 13, Sections 13.4, 13.5,13.6, 13.7 in be h the department and the plant
13.12	The Supervisor must give at least tv\ enty-four (24) hours notice of layoff tc
the committee member and the employee affected
than model chance, unless such layoffs affect individuals under the Employmen
by model change layoff, or layoff othei
25
t3
StandardsAct in which case the layoffs will four (24) hour notice shall be given on the worked. However, it is understood that th circumstances beyond the control of the Cc
within the confines of the Act. The twenty-previous work day on which the employee s provision does not apply with respect to mpany.
13.13 Due to schedule changes recognized that during short periods of time employees exercising plant seniority to the
ibsenteeism or leave of absences, it is of not greater than one week per occasion, sewer classification will be assigned to other
14.1 On Recallfrom a layoff under Article 15 all employees will return to their previous maintain recall rights to their jobs as provide) I
14.2 Should the Plant increase its wC 1 Section 13 3, surplus employees in the Plant! n classification on the Day Shift in their departn« in the meantime
Surplus employees in the Plant from classificationin their department, unless they
■t, .	14.3 Further vacancies will be pos
and employees placed on byofffri
cm
resultant vacancies providing such employ! i satisfactorily perform the work available, sub 3' 13 4, 13.5, 13 6, 13 7, this then will become tlli
13, Section 13.1,13.2,13.3 and Article jobs, or shall be declared surplus and below
k force following a layoff, under Article 13, om the Day Shift will return to their former ent, unless they have successfully posted
the Multi-Shift will return to their former nave successfully posted in the meantime.
ed in accordance with the job posting the Plant, inorder of seniority,willfillthe ;es have the necessary qualifications to ct to the provision of Article 13, Section is employees job classification
26
14.4	Surplus employees on the shift will before any temporary transfers or temporary pos minimal disruption of production. In the event th payment will be made to the employee from date
rfetum to their previous classification ng occur, providing there wiil be a surplus employee is not returned, complaint.
However, surplus employees returning from previous classification at the start of the following employees from the applicable transfer sheets able occur, no penalty will be assessed to the Compan
the opposite shift will return to their week providing there are available o perform their fundion. Should this
ARTICLE 15 - MODEL CHANGE LAYOFF ANDlRECALL
15.1	Layoff by department seniority will bl used, subject to the provisions of Article 13, Section 13.9, for a period of forty-five (4 i) calendar days from the time when the model change layoffs occur: this period inclu les the annual inventory period and vacation periods for some employees depending u[ on production requirements. Where layoffs under this system create problems of vacatio i scheduling, alternate arrangements
the model change, if to be used, will st each year. Recall to work during
may be made by mutual agreement. The timing of be posted on the bulletin boards on or before May this forty-five (45) calendar day period shall be by departmental seniority, subject to the provisions of Article 13, Section 13.9. If all exci pt probationary employees are still required in that department, the additional employee s shall be recalled in accordance with their plant wide seniority provided they have the ability to satisfactorily perform the availablework to be done.
ARTICLES 16-17 - ANNUAL INVENTORY - CY
fLE CHECK INVENTORY
16.1	-17.1 In the event of annual/short cycle cieck inventory (inventory for record purposes) employees shall be requested, by depar mental seniority providing he has the necessary qualifications and is immediately able! to satisfactorily perform the work
27
required. Should the Company be unabfi employees in the department will be requl Additional manpowerwill be requested by the ability to perform the function.
la to acquire sufficient employees, the junior led to work the annual-cycle check inventory, plrarf wide seniority, providing employeeshave
The annual inventory period shall t> i posted on the Company bulletin boards two (2) weeks prior to the actual inventory aijd when the selection process is completed, names will be posted.
ARTICLE18 - GENERAL
'^■^'18/1 Inthe event of an employee buffering a major disability, or djsabijity d ue to advancing age, exception may be made tci the seniority provisions of this agreement in favour of such employee but, in the event Df a layoff or recall after a layoff, he shall be subject to the seniority provisions of this a jreement which would have applied, had he not been disabled. Following recall after a i layoff, exception may again be made to the seniority provisions of this agreement in fav jur of such employee. Such exception to be made when agreed to mutually by the Conjtpany and the Plant Union Committee.
ARTICLE 19 - FORMATION/DISCONTIliJUANCE OF A MULTI-SHIFT
19.1	General Provision
The parties agree that this GeneralF rovlsion will apply during the formation of a section going onto a Multi-Shift operatior and its object is to give those seniority employees who have been moved onto a return to a day shift.
Vacancies orthe re-location of emplo; procedure, will be in accordancewith the Ji
>ees other than as specifically outlined in this lob Posting Procedure.
28
:o the Multi-Shiftsections(s) will have
19.2	Article
The numberof seniorityemployeesassigned the opportunity to return to a day shift sectio ' of the department in the same classification, in the following manner:
19.3	Uponthe formation(f the Multi-Shift requestingre-locationto a Day Shift section, ofthe their names on a noticewhichwill appear on the for five (5) consecutiveworking days.
J(
those seniority employees C epartment, will berequestedto place Posting Boards. The noticewill run
19.4	Upon completion of the five (5) day :ice, the names will be arranged in order tf seniority.
19.5	Seniority employees shall be placed o i a Multi-Shift inaccordancewith the attached schedule.
19.5	Once the seniority employees are p iced on a Multi-Shift, they shall be returned to the Day Shift jobs in the classification at a rate of no less than five (5) employeesfrom each shift, cf which not moretharj four (4) will be sewers, as outlined inthe attached schedule.
19.7	Those re-locatingto a Day Shift section will displace the junior employee in their classification.
19.8	This process will continue until the requested re-locationto the Day Shift, is insufficien Day Shift section.
19.9	Those employees who are being disp will be re-locatedto the Multi-Shiftsection(s) ofthe the process, if there should be a need to increas vacancies will be filled in accordance with the Job
seniority of an employee who has to displace an employeewho is in a
aced by the more senior employees, department. After the completion of the work force in the department. Procedure.
29
19.10 Inthe eventthe Multi-Shift is scontinued, the same procedureshall apply for discontinuance as for formation.
MAX. MO. OF UEEKS
**EKS__________IfftKS________MEEKS__________WEEKS_________WEEKS__________MEEKS_________UEEKS__________WEEKS___________CM MIGHTS
t
2	WIGHT	OAT	-OUI*
J	SHIFT	SHIFT	t
L
5______________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
6
1
e
9
10
DAY
SHIFT
WIGHT
SHIFT
DAY
SHIFT
•our*
2
It
12	WIGHT	DAY	NIGHT	DAY	"OUT1
G3	13	SHIFT	SHIFT	SHIFT	SHIFT	I
14
11
Ifl
19
oat' ' j~wTght ...........' TJY	ftGHt..........bhf=
SHIFT	SHIFT	SHIFT	SHIFT	SHIFT
22	NIGHT	DAT	NIGHT
?3	SHIFT	SHIFT	SHIFT
24 ?S
OAV	WIGHT	OAV
SHIFT	SHIFT	SHIFT
■our
6
16
27	DAY	FIGHT	DAY	NIGHT	DAT	WIGHT	DAY	WT
28	SHIFT	SHIFt	SHIFT	SHIFT	SHIFT	SHIFT	SHIFT
29
6
ARTICLE 20 - SEWER TRAINING PROGRAMME
20.1 The Company will provide b training programme (during periods o( f employment or during periods when the plant has employees on indefinite layoff) enable seniority employees in classification s other than sewing, an opportunity to becon qualified sewers in order to reduce the p ossibility of layoff due to inability to meet jc
requirements. This article will apply to thos< into the sewer training and with greater pi
;e employees actively at work at time ot ent jnt seniority than sewers already in the plar
20.2 The minimum training period be disqualified, should the employee fail to: at any time during the 30 day calendar pe of the Sewing Programme will be made wi
will be 30 calendar days, but an employee ms how satisfactory qualifications or performanc iod. Determination of successful completic ■thin 80 calendar days.
tii i'
20.3 An employee's seniority shall wide seniority will be accrued during the completion of the sewing programme an ei a further nine (9) month period as a sewer, will return to his own department or may posting procedure.
20.4 A posting will be placed on th second week of January each year. The
be retained in his own department and plat le spent in sewing. From date of successfi irrjployee (seniority providing) will then complet Upon completion of this period, the employe ansfer to a sewing vacancy through the |o
a Job Posting Board for one week during th (lompany will post, to a maximum of two (2
postings per year, should the initial posting be exhausted. Candidates that apply am qualify under the terms of this article must accept the posting or the employee will b ineligible for consideration of the posting. ' 'he candidates selected will enter training s a rate not to exceed two per month in ords r of plant wide seniority.
Should an employee not exercise f
s plant wide seniority to enter the sewinj
classification, during any twenty-four (24) n onth period after completion of the training he may have to requalify prior to exercising his plant wide seniority Into the sewint classification,for layoff purposes only,
32
Any employeedeclaredsurplus,followingSiiccessful completion of the Sewing Programme under Article 20.2, who returns to th i programmewithin twenty-four (24)

months of surplus date will completethe balanceo fothe Sewing Programmewithintwenty-four(24)rn' require the employee to re-post.
the training period. Failureto return knths from beingdeclaredsurpluswill
Should the Sewer Training Posting not be names will be carried forward and incorporated i seniority.
f xhausted by the end of the year the i i the new posting in line with their
ARTICLE 21 - SALARIED RETURN TO THE B. RGAINING UNIT
21.1 Shoulda salaried employee beretu entitled fo the seniority that he previously acquir seniority employee in his former department and i posting procedure for a period of six months.
ARTICLE 22 - PRODUCTION STANDARDS
22.1 It shall be the Company's responsib ity to establish production standards
that:
(a)	— are fair and equitable to workers; ant
(b)	— are based on working capacitiesof a (o) — give due considerationto quality of woi (d) — give due consideration to personaltii
22.2 Beforethe Company studiesanyjob rnd makesa record of such a job, the worker who works onthejob and hiscommittee member shallbe notitiedin advanceand shall be told of the purpose of the study.
to the bargaining unit he will be d in the unit, will bump the lowest will be ineligible to post on the job
normal worker; and rkmanship required; and e delays.
33
22.3 Any established production of a change, may be grieved on the grow of the Article. In accordance with the Grie|/i be referred to Step No. 2 and submitted
Standard, whether It be a new one or the resul ids that it does not conform to the provision! ance Procedure, complaints not resolved wil the Manager of Industrial Engineering.
n
22.4 During such grievance pro< grievance procedure, if they so desire, havfe Engineer present to examine all the dat; dispute, and may also examine and study also be made available to the Union in wri
22.5 An established production st; not be changed except for the following e:
itjedure the Union may at Step No. 3 of th< their international Representative Time Stud) which the Company has pertaining to tht the job. Standards information and data wil ;ing upon request.
.8 idard where no grievance has been filed shal
> tent:
(a)	— To correct an arithmetic error, be corrected.
In which case only the arithmetic error shal
(b) — When the Company makes a the worker to do the job in less effort. Ir standard shall reflect no more than the
change in the job which makes it possible foi which case, the change in the production ige in the job.
chs ni
(c)	— When the Company makes a cl use more time and/or effort. In which case reflect the change in the job.
ilpange in the job which requires the worker to the change in the production standard shall
22.6	Should a production standard be disputed by the Union, it is agreed that after normal investigative procedures have I teen followed, the final resolution will be by the slop watch method.
22.7	Prior to any job being studied fhe union committee member of the area in which the study is to be taken will be notrfie d verbally by the industrial engineer in the presence of the supervisor.
3-1
22.8	If for any reason the study is cancell bd or deferred the union committee member shall be notified of the cancellation or defer nent by the industrial engineer in the presence cf the supervisor. The reasons given.
22.9	Priorto a deferred study beingtaken
cf the area involved shall be renotified by the industrial engineer in the presence of the supervisor.
22,10	A record logofthe notificationsforea|h study, shallbe keptinthe industrial engineering department.
ARTICLE 23 - HOURS OF WORK AND OVERT) ME
t tir i
fi >r
23.1	The normal workweek shall consist c inclusive of 8 hours per day. Any time workec considered overtime and paid for at time and a hal day shall be considered overtime and paid for at any reason during the hours between the regular si respective shifts and who return to work during the as having worked the eight (8) consecutive hours payment herein.) Nothing herein shall be construed overtime pay twice in respect of the same overtimr for all work performed on a Saturday.
on Sunday.	’	'
23.2
(a) — Normal 8 hour shift will start between th: 1st Shift — Starting times will be between 2nd Shift— Starting times will be between 3rd Shift — Starting times will be between
5 days per week, Monday to Friday, over 40 hours per week shall be Any time worked over 8 hours per e and a half. (Employees absent for .tjrting and regular quitting time of their hours of such shift shall be credited the purpose of computing overtime as entitling the employee to receive work. Time and a half shall be paid shall be paid for all work
following hours:
5:00 A M. and 8:00 A.M. 2:30 P.M. and 4:30 P.M. hl:00 P.M.and 1:30 A.M.
35
(b)	— Butted Shift Operations-when operations are require on three equal shifts, the normal hours of work will be:
Days
11PM
Afternoon
Midnight
<1 p Ml 11 P.M. - 7 A.M

Employees working such operation: of the week for the third butted shift opera
23.3	Shift hours will be posted on quittingtimes: rest periods and lunch peidds.
will receive a 20 minute paid lunch. The stai tions will be 11 P.M. Sunday night,
the bulletin boards designating starting time
23.4	The Company will notify the Union of changes in such posted informatior in advance of implementation and inform them of the reasons for the change.
23.5	The Company will not change on the first standard work day of the rei becomes necessary for the Company to chab week, then all work performed before the quitting time shall be considered as overtime day only with the exception of the following
t le employee's starting time when establishec qulai scheduled workweek. If, however, t ;ge the employee's starting time during suet regular starting time and after the regulai and take the overtime rate of pay for the first
seniority.
id called back to work, ected and accepted a job posting which Is
i soli
(a)	— When an employee exercises
(b)	— When an employee is laid off a
(c)	— When an employee has been
exercised during the week.
(d)	— When an employee is recalled tjo his home department during the week.
23.6	When overtime is necessary, th 9 Company will give the employees twenty-four (24) hours notice except where prevente d from doing so because of circumstances
beyond the control of the Company. In sucf to notify employees prior to noon of the day
cases the Company will make every effort toncerned. in any event the Company will
3E
advise the committee chairperson and commflee person concerned before the employees are notified.
23.7	It is recognizedthat the Company’s at times require overtime work. Overtime will be c overtime over eight hours per
of such a naturewhich oligatory up to 8 hours a week. Any agreed upon
between the Union and the Company. Further, an overtime on a weekend immediately following a Friday holiday or a weekend immediately preceding a Monday holiday will be voluntary.
i
or sectional basis by shift. After exhausting thf Company will then canvass the other day shift! up to date by the Company and posted inthe are A copy cf the Master Overtime Recordwill be is
overtime during the week, the :lions. Overtime records will be kept department on a weekly basis. to the Union.
23.9 Overtime on a weekend will be equit who normally perform such work inthe classifies basis, by shift, giving preference to day shift err
employees
n on a departmentalbasis, or section first.
23.10	Equalization of overtime shall cor commencing with the senior employees, usingtl all overtimeworked or offered except in the folic
on January 1st of each year procedure of charging and recording situations:
(a)	-Overtime offeredto a classificationa departmentother than their own and refused.
(b)	— Overtimeofferedand refusedwithin 'enty-four (24) hoursof the scheduled
overtime shift.
(c)	- Inventory/cycle check inventory.
(d)	— Premium paymentsfor shirt change
37
tei
23.11 In the event overtime has not 23.8 or 23.9 and a complaint has been rr|i working days from the alleged violation the the next partial overtime or overtime on a wi complaint providing the complaint is legi employee can satisfactorily perform the reqi
ten equitably distributed as set out in Articl ad by an employee within six (6) normal employee will be given an opportunity to wor ie ekend within the 30 day period following th it mate, there is overtime available and th'
I jired function.
If a legitimate complaint has been file i overtime and not offered additional overtime will be made at the appropriate rate.
d by an employee who was by-passed to in accordance with Article 23.11, paymen
23.12	Probationary and Seniority Emaloyees transferred to other classifications departments or shifts shall be credited wth the highest hours (as established b; procedure agreement between Union/Comp iny) of the department in a day shift area o an applicable multi-shift area. Such procedure to exclude Plant Committee hours fo calculationof highest hours.
23.13	Excluding vacation, employees on lay-off (from their classification) leave o absence, sick leave, compensation, shall b t charged for overtime as it occur in the classification on the same basis as If they we re employees in the classification.
-V *
ay
ie to work for the Company for whom nc s time at the hourly rate he would have ion shall not apply when such lack of work
V 7 _
~&7cTo
awaiting notification to be called Into work, paid if the employee is not called in.
23.14	Reporting Pay An employee called or permittedto co
work is available shall be paid four (4) hou received# he had actuallyworked. This provi: is due to a fire, flood or other just cause.
23.15	Stand-By Allowance Should an employee agree to sfand-by
compensation of 4 hours straight time will be
38
23.16	Call-BackAllowance
When an employee has left the premises alter completion of his normal shift or after having discharged the special duties whict Company and is called upon to return to the plant f > regularly scheduled for him to resume his duties, t 4 hours at the appropriate rate as provided under
23.17	It is understood that stand-by allowam e will not be paid should an employee receive pay for call-back allowance.
he has agreed lo perform for the r emergency duties, prior to the time e shall receive pay for a minimum of Article 23, Section 23.1.
23.18	The Company agrees that in the even no deduction of pay will be made on the first sue!
23.19	Multi-Shift Program
(a)	— It is agreed that unless specified in between the Union and the Company, Shift RotatiJji in Multi-Shift departments.
tfus Agreement or by mutual consent in will be applicable to all employees
(b)	— Third shift rotation
Shift rotation (forthe Third shift) will not be necessary. The Company will consider voluntefei providing the employees have the ability to perfor
(c)	— Unbalanced shift rotation
Shift rotation by an employee may be waiv rotation in multi-shiftdepartments/sections, provid other and have the necessary ability to immedi should an employee select this option, he will rt period of his applicabledepartment/section unbal h specialized training deemed necessary which reqt shift, the Company will meet with the Union and
an employee is late three (3) minutes, occurrence in any one week.
rfquired should a third shift be deemed rs by department/section seniority, n the function.
d during periods of unbalanced shift ig employees can accommodateeach is :ely perform the funct.on. However, main on the second shift during the need shift (subject to Article 13). Any rtis the employee to move to the day Outline the specific training program.
39
Should any specialized training be req sired within any classification, movement/ rotation will not take place within that cias: itication group, until adequate training is provided to the employees affected.
It is further understood for employe^: receivingsimilartraining, shift rotationwill coi
s within a classification group, who are ■iktinue amonq those employees affected as
ARTICLE 24 - PAID HOLIDAYS
24.1	Eligibleseniority employeeswilllbe paideight (8) hours per day pluscostof living allowance provided he meets all of the following eligibility rules unless otherwise provided herein:
(a)	- The employee has seniority as o the date of tne holiday,
(b)	- The employee would otherwise have been scheduledto work on such day if it had not been observed as a holiday, and
(c)	—The employee must have worked the next scheduled working day after such he It employee excused by management from wor to or on the next scheduled working day workweek, but not both, shall be deemed to
last scheduledworking day prior to and day within the scheduled workweek. An on the last scheduled working day prior such holiday within the scheduled met the requirements of this Paragraph
hqve
(d)	- In the case of a series of Christmas fill), the employee must have \ the Holiday period inorder to qualify for
falling on consecutive work days 0.e. the last scheduledworking day prior to half of the Holiday period. An employee
40
must have worked the 1st scheduled working day to qualify for the balance of the Christmas Holiday on layoff on the first day following the Christmas f
following the Holiday period it order ieriod, unless the employee is placed oliday period.
(e)	— Employees Retiring on December <
An otherwise eligible employee who retires last scheduled working day prior to the Christmas pay to the end of the year.
24.2	If the employee had been scheduled o work on the day prior to or the day
an December 31 and who works the Holiday Period is eligible for Holiday
succeeding the holiday he must have worked thi employee will not be eligible for payment should more than 2 hours on either or both of the qualify
24.3	It isfurther agreed that there shall be rlo duplicationof payment for the same day or days arising out of the terms of this article
24.4	An employee who agreesto work on nedayof observance of a holiday and who, without reasonable cause, fails to report f >r and perform such work, shall be ineligible for holiday pay.
scheduled shift on each day. The e be late, without reasonable cause, ng shifts.
24.5	It is further providedthat, should an e or more of the above holidays and receives Compensationbenefitsforthatholiday(s), hisholidfr of Accident and Sickness or Workers' Compensa
24.6	Any employee who works on a pai I holiday shall be paid at the rate cf double his regular straight time hourly rate for sue h work, this is fo be in addition to the normal days pay for those employees with seniority	t ■
'c)
nployee qualify for holiday pay for one accident and Sickness or Workers' iy pay shall be reduced by the amount ion benefits paid for that day(s).
41
An eligibleemployeewho has beenlai on sick and pregnancy leave, grantedperso be eligible for holiday pay provided he wr fourteen (14) calendar day period before Christmas fill period holiday pay shall be lim
24.8 Employees Returning from Personal Leave or on Worker
An eligible employee on layoff, on si< leave or on Workers' Compensation who r< eligiblefor holiday pay provided he worked t (14) calendar day period after a holiday, e> period holiday pay shall be limitedto the las
off in a reduction of force or who has gone rl leave,or on Workers' Compensationwill <ed his last scheduled work shift in the holiday, except that as it relates to the rd to the first half of the holiday period.
.ayoff, Sick and Pregnancy Leave,
' Compensation
; and pregnancy leave, granted personal jrns to work following the holiday will be r first scheduledwork shift inthe fourteen ept that as it relates to the Christmas fill naif of the holiday period.
24.9 IMiere required to accomplisl filling the Christmas New Year period, additional holidays will be added to the hi y schedule. For the purpose of this agreement,the following days are holidays:
4:
1st Year 1992 • 1fc93
December24, 1992) December 25, 1992) December 28, 1992) December 29, 1992) December 30, 1992) December 31, 1992) January 1, 1993) April 9, 1993 April 12, 1993 May 24, 1993 July 2, 1993 August 2, 1993 Septembers, 1993 October 11, 1993
December24, 1993) December27, 1993)/ December 28, 1993)-/. December29, 1993)/^ December 30, 1993)/, December 31, 1993) / April 1, 1994^
April 4, 1994/
May 23, 1994 July 1,1994^-August 1, 1994 ' y Septembers, 1994 ' October 10, 1994	^
December26, 1994) December27, 1994) December 28, 1994) December 29, 1994) December30, 1994) January2, 1995) April 14, 1995 April 17, 1995 May 22, 1995 July 3, 1995 August 7, 1995 September4, 1995 October 9, 1995
Christmas Hoi flay Period
Good Friday Easter Monda; Victoria Day Canada Day Civic Holiday Labour Day Thanksgiving
Day
2nd Year 1993- 1394
Christmas Hoi
Good Friday Easter Monda' Victoria Day Canada Day Civic Holiday Labour Day Thanksgiving
lay Period
■ay
195
Christmas Ho cay Period
Good Friday EasterMondaJi Victoria Day Canada Day Civic Holiday Labour Day Thanksgiving pay
43
ARTICLE 25 - VACATION PAY
25.1	Every employee who has been in tne employment of the Company during
the following period will be entitled to Vacatic of June 30th, as follows:
Pay
% or Hiurs
ContinuousServlee
>n Pay based on their continuous service as
Time-Off
Up to Six Months		4%	❖	None
Six Months to One Year		4%		1 Week
One to Three O I - O	-z—	4% or 88	Hour% M	2 Weeks
Three to Six		5% or 88	Hours	2 Weeks
Six to Ten o & " a	>	6% or 128	Hours	3 Weeks
Ten to Fifteen	o Y	8% or 128	Hours	3 Weeks
Fifteen to Twenty / $•" *		^9% cr168	Hours	4 Weeks
Over Twenty -2. & ‘		10% or 20£	Hours	5 Weeks
VJi
In calculating the above, employees (1,000) hours, shall be entitled to receive earnings during such twelve (12) month peri have worked at least nine hundred (900) but be entitled to vacation pay equal to at least ei; on the number of hours ot pay applicable In
who I
have worked less than one thousand ication pay based on percentage of the sd of the vacation year. Employees who Isss than one thousand (1,000) hours shall (hty (80) percent of their entitlement based ■ he above schedule.
b<
25.2	The above percentages shall during the year ending May 28, 1993 - May vacation pay. In cases where employees vacation year and have received Sickness Compensation benefits (WCB) during the year a credit for 40 hours for each week during whic or WCB benefits, in addition to total earnings
calculated on their total annual earnings 27, 1994 - May 26, 1995 cf the year of have at least 1,000 hours worked in the nd Accident (S&A) benefits or Workers' the vacation pay calculation shall include h such employees received full week S&A rom the Company.
44
Employees who retire with greater than one receive vacation pay at the rate as outlined
schedule if less than one thousand (1,000) hours ai
thousand (1,000) hours worked, wit te 25.1 or the vacation percentage
3 worked.
Upon termination of employment, an employ* e will be eligible to receive vacation pay based on regulations as set out in the Employr rent Standards Act.
The vacation pay calculationas outlined abov i does not include previous vacation
25.3 For the purposes of Vacation entitlsme 1st until June 30th of the following year.
it the annual period will be from July
25.4 The annual vacation shutdown period such employees shall be paid on the basis set out
i /ill be selected by the Company and ibove.
iods will be posted on the noticB tion periods the following procedure
25.5 The dates of the annual vacation pe boards by May 1 st each year. In allotting choice vac. will apply: Those employees entitled to three c • more weeks vacation will make application on forms provided by The Company ii dicating whether or not they wish consideration for additional week(s) in conjunction period and/or for consideration for additional week
with the Plant Vacation Shutdown s) commencing August 1 st to June
30th. Employees requesting additional week(s) from August 1st to June 30th will indicate
three (3) choices but not more than one (1) choice
Twenty percent (20%) of those employees witl entitlement requesting vacation in conjunction with
approval by the Company. It is understood for the production departments the Company will be allowec number requesting vacation interfere with the Com >: which is qualified and able to do the necessary work approved week(s) vacation in conjunction with the
n any one montn.
three (3) or more weeks of vacation Plant Shutdown will be granted Period noted above that in the non-
to re-schedule vacations should the any maintaining an adequate staff during this period. Employees with cation Shutdown period witl not be
Vp
45
eligible to apply for a further three (3) year more vacation must indicate their vacation percentage figure noted above in any one yfear.
period. Employees entitled to 3 weeks t preference, as the Company may exceed tf
For employees reauestina vacations from August 1st to June 30th approval will t at the discretion of the Company.
It is further understood that in the event the vacation shutdown period Is great! than two weeks, vacations approved August 1st to June 30th will be considered a approved leaves of absence and the additional shutdown period designated as Vacatiot
tfe
In allotting choice vacation periods, those having the greatest seniority. Applies Department May 1st. In order to be given co Forms must be completed and returned to working days trom May 1st. Vacation appro’ 15th ot each year. In the event the Compaijr shutdown period, the Company will canvass department basis those employees with less those employees with three or more weeks
Company will give priority of choice t ;ion forms will be available in the Personni tsideration the Vacation Choice Appllcatio he Personnel Department within 3 norm!
will be announced by not later than Ma iy schedules production during a vacatioi by seniority in the production areas, on : if an three weeks vacation to work prior ti vacation entitlement.
ivals
Employees with three or more weekp Vacations prior to June 30th. Early vacation ri to vacation request date; upon vacation epp|n upon request, will be issued prior to commei
vacation entitlement may request Earl; •^quests must be submitted one month prio oval one early vacation payment chequi rlcement of early vacation.
An employee may request to deter a corresponding vacation pay in accordance previouslyin this article.
25.6 Vacation pay as above sha commencementof his annual vacation,
portion of their vacation entitlement an: vith the application time frame indicate:
be paid to the employee prior t:
46
ARTICLE 26 - LEAVE OF ABSENCE 26.1 General
(a)	— The provisions of this Article are for tne purpose of maintaining uninterruptec seniority rating during authorized period of leave ol absence and for no other purpose
(b)	— A leave of absence of one (1) day Immediate Supervisor, except in cases involving tht day following a statutory holiday, excluding Satin approved in advance in writing by the Personne application to be submitted at least five (5) non requested off.
nay be granted by the employee’s working day before, or the working day and Sunday, which must be Manager or his designate. Sucf tal working days prior to the day
(c)—The Personnel Manager or his designatt leave of absence providing it has been process A leave of absence must be applied for in writing anp one month. At the expiration of this period, should of the leave may be granted by the Personnel Marfei
may grant an employee a temporary rough the employee's Supervisor.
in no case be issued for more than tircumstances warrant, an extension iger or his designate.
26.2	— An employee requesting a leave of employee's supervisor on a five (5) part request forrji (5) part of this form will be retained by the employi' forward Leave of Absence request form to Personr
If the employee is not advised of the status c f his leave of absence request within
ten (10) working days from the date of applicatic Portion" of the leave of absence request form in the
is not processed within an additional two (2) worki ig day period, it shall be considered
to be granted. The advance notice shall not apply any year.
bsence will make application to the supplied by the Company. The fifth e for his record. The Supervisor to el for approval.
n he must sign the "No Response ersonnel Department. If the request
to the months of July and August of
26.3	An employee who engages in gainful employment while on such leave or renewal thereof, except for the purpose of rehabilitation, shall lose his seniority rights

unless specific provisions are made in advance to cover this circumstance. The Plant Chairperson will be given a copy of all leelves of absence whether approved or not.
/
26.4	Personal
Under certain private and pe'rsonkl conditions an employee may not wish to divulge his reasons to anyone other than the Personnel Manager. Under these circumstances an employee may apply diri ictly to the Personnel Manager who may grant
a leave of absence at his discretion. Such
leaves of absence will be subject to the same
limits and conditions in Article 26, Section !6.1 (c) of this Article. The Plant Chairperson will be notified, in writing, of the employt i absence.
e's name receiving such approved leave of
1y, <; “ '
26.5	Sick Leave
A seniority employeewho is unable o work becauseof an illness or non-industrial injury and who furnishes satisfactory ev dence thereof shall be granted a leave of absence while disabled for an indefinite per od subjectto paragraph 11.5(c) of Article 11. The employeewill returnto work in accordance with his seniority, provided hefurnishes to the Company, satisfactory medical evidence of recovery nolaterthanone (1)work day priorto the date of return. Inthe eventar employee is returningto work with medical restrictions,a "Physician ReferralForm"mu it besubmittedtothe Company no laterthan three working days prior to the proposed 'date of return for review by the Placement Committee. The employee shall contact the Company, for information on possible placement, one (1) work day priorto the proposed date of return.
26.6
(a)— Pregnancy Leave
Seniorityemployeeswhobecomepr ant shallbegrantedleaveof absencefrom employment.
to six (6) months from the date Of the a shorter duration upon request. Such
4
Ths leave of absence shall be, llmi commencement of such leave, but may be
1
leaves may be extended beyond six (6) mon.'.b; certificate stating the necessitythereof.
The employee, prior to returning to work m a written opinion by a medical doctor that the enn
ist submit to the Personnel Manager 'oyee is fit to return to work.
~~ Adoption Leave
Seniority employees shall be granted leave 3( absence from employment
The leave of absence shall be limited ti six (6) months from the date of commencement of such leave, but may be of a s lorter duration upon request. Such leaves may be extended beyond six (6) months di|e to extenuating circumstances.
26.7	Bereavement Pay
upon presentation a doctor's
■MLt.
(a) — When death occurs in the employ employee, on request, will be excused, and after receive payment for up to three (3) normally
Saturdays, Sundays and holidays, or, in the case of seven-day operations, excluding
regular off days and holidays) during the period cc ending with the second calendar day after the day attends the funeral. The employee's immediate fc Spouse,
Parent,
Stepparent or Grandparent,
Parent SteoDarent or Grandolrent of current SDOUSe. Child or stepchild.
Grandchild,
Brother or Stepbrother,
Sister or Stepsister,
Half-Brotheror Half-Sister,
Son-In-Law or Daughter-ln-Layv.
es's immediate family, a seniority making written application therefore cheduled days of work (excludes
■nmencing with the date of death and sf the funeral, provided the employee nily means the following persons:
49
(b)	— The employee shall receive Bereavement Pay for the first three (3) full working days on which the employee is absent during the period established in Subsection (a).
(c)	— Anemployee who returns to wcrk on or after the date of the funeral will not be eligible for Bereavement Pay for any sibsequent absence in connection with that bereavement.
(d)	— Paymentshallbe madeatthe en ployee's straight-time hourly rate anthe last day worked exclusive of shift andovertime p amums but includingseven-day operations premium and the amount of any cost-of-living allowance then in effect. Time thus paid will not be counted as hours worked for purposes tf overtime.
(a) — Any employee who is elected cj Union shall be granted a leave of absence privileges, and while on such leaveofabsenct enjoy accumulativeseniority.
selected for a full time position with the or a period of one year, with extension shall not lose hisseniority status, but shall
(b) — The Company will grant any mei the Union to do temporary work fcr the Conferencesor other Union business, aleavi three (3) months, providing the number of employees at the same time, and that the C whenever possible. The pay for such lea Company, on a weekly basis, who will bill employee's regular rate includingCost-Of-Livii the wages paid as a result cf the Union if reimburse the Company.
ber of the Union elected or appointed by 'nion or to attend Union Conventions, of absence for a period d not exceeding mployees does not exceed (20) twenty mpany is given at least four days notice s cf absence will be advanced by the he local Union once per month at the 3 and Shift Premiumwhereapplicable.for ive, and the Union agrees to promptly
50
26.9	Conviction - Arising Out ot the Op iratlon of a Motor Vehlcli
An employee shall be granted a leave of abst nee nc t exceeding 180 calendar days during which he is serving a sentence of imprisonment irr posed for a conviction arising out of the operation of a motor vehicle. If an extf nsion s required the employee may apply under the provision of Section 26.4 of this Article.
26.10 Jury Duty Leave

/
Any seniority employee who is called to I and reports for jury duty or as a subpoenaed witness shall be paid the difference between his jury duty payment or witness payment and his regular straight time pay in performing jury duty or as a subpoenaed witness
been scheduled to work for the Company and doe > not work. A further such leave may
be granted by the Personnel Manager or his des under this section an employee must give the Co summoned for duty and must furnish satisfactory t on the days for which he claims such payment
or each day partially or wholly spent if the employee would otherwise have
inate. In order to receive payment ipany prior notice that he has been 'idence that the duty was performed
26.11 Leave For Elected Or Appointed tfffflce

Leave of absence shall be	an elected office in the municipal,
provincial or federal government for a period of on|te m or an appointed position of the Provincial or Federal Government.	will be granted, if requested, in the
event of re-election.
A leave of absence shall be granted to till an appointed position in the municipal government where mutually agreed by the Company and the Union.
Where any such leave is for 3 hours or lesdmer dav anv elected union office will be left vacant for such period.
51
ARTICLE 27 - HEALTH AND SAFETY	Letter #22)
27.1	There shall be a Healthand S appointed by the Union, two (2)appointed
27.2	The Union Healthand Safety a month and meet with the Company
[t'y recommendationtothe Company, on the H
\
cf the recommendation shall be forwarded meeting will be posted on the Company Bill'
there shall be a member of the Union Safety of the Health and Safety Representative
fety Committeeoffour (4) members,two (2) by the Company
lommitteemembers will tour the plan; once Health and Safety CommTftee to make althand Safety of the employees, and copy to the Union Copies of the minutes of this letin Boards
27.3	Should the Safety Inspectorfom the Ontario Governmenttour the plant,
Committee in attendance, or in the absence he Plant Chairperson will accompany the
Inspector. Copies of any subsequent corres pondencefrom the Companytothe Ministry of Labourshall be supplied to the Union Health and Safety Committee
27.4	The Company agrees that thie members of the Safety Committee shall
27.5	It is further agreed that eac responsibility under the collective bargaining
Union committeeperson, as part of his jreement, cantake upany healthor safety
Inthe eventthe committeepersonis r satisfied with the supervisor's handlingof the matter, the committeepersonwill refer it rectly to the Safety Committee,
52I
ARTICLE 28 - REST PERIODS
28.1	Effective August 31, 1992 the the three (3) minute wash-ugjjbe two (2) eighte additionalone (1) minute within a schedule to provii in each half shift and a twenty (20) minute lunch p
Company and the Union agreed to combine in (18) minute rest periods and an lefor rest periods of ten (10) minutes
riod.
28.2	When overtime is scheduled for mors granted a ten (10) minute rest period at the conck
than one (1) hour employees will be sion of their normal scheduled shift.
ARTICLE29 - BULLETIN BOARDS
29.1 The Company will make available f Cafeteriaandtwo inthe Employeesentrancesfort^ all noticesto the PersonnelManageror hisdesigrY notices. A Trading Post Boardwill be made avail1
'fe [?) DUlletin boards, one in each e Union'suse. The Unionwill submit tb for approval priorto posting such l^leforthe Sales cf Articles.
ARTICLE30 - WAGES
30.1	The Company and the Union agree classifications in the Bargaining Unit shall be as se
30.2
(a) — Any new skilled trades employee hire Agreement shall be paid at a rate $.45 per hour employee's date of hire as set out in Section 30 of and shall be advanced by $.15 per hour on the 41 additional $.30 per hour on the 81st date after hire
that the scale of wages for the job
out in Section30.5 - Schedule A.
i on or after the effective date of the less than the rates in effect on the he Collective Bargaining Agreement, date after hire and by an
53
(b) — New employees hired on or atlte do not hold a seniority date in the bargaining of Subsection(d) below, shall be hired at a rate maximum base rate of the job classification employees shall receive an automaticincrer
(1) — Ninety percent (90%) classification at the expiration of one hundre
(2) — Ninety-five percent (95)' classificationat the expiration of three hund
r the effectivedate of this Agreement who unit and are not covered by the provisions equal to eighty-five percent (85%) of the , other than a skilled classification. Such se to:
of the maximum base rate of the job dand eighty (180) days.
%) of the maximum base rate of the Job
ed and sixty-five (365) days.
(3) —The maximumbaserateqf the job classificationat the expirationof five
VP'
Such an employee who is laid oft employed in the bargaining unit within one shall receive a rate upon re-employment v maximum base rate of the job classification to layoff. Upon such re-employment, employee's prior period of employment in i rate progression to the maximum base rate applying the provisions of Subsections (b), credit toward acquiring the maximum base ri first day worked and will include the subseqt
prior to acquiring seniority and who Is rear from the last day worked prior to layofl hich has the same relative position to the 3 had been attained by the employee prior credited rate progression period of the bargaining unit shall be applied toward his the job classification. For the purpose of |c), and (d) only, an employee will receive of the job classification effective with the ent days of that pay period.
Thereafter, such employee will receive during which the employee works except thi r employee is on layoff. Credit will not be reason, the employee did not work except in disease compensable under the Workers' Ci period in which the full week of the Christmas
tif
e.te
credit for seven days for each pay period it credit will not be given for any days the n for any pay period during which for any tases of disability for injury or occupational ipsnsation Act and in the case of the pay Holidays fall, provided the employee would
C Tl|
54
otherwise have been scheduled to work. Each increase shall be effective at the beginning of the first pay period following the completion cf the required number of days ol employment.
(c)	— A lald-off seniority employee hired in £ job classification other than skilled trades, shall receive a base rate upon re-employmen which hasthe same relative position to the maximum base rate cf the job classification as had been attained by the employee prior to layoff from the bargaining unit. Such emplc /ee shall continue to be covered by
the rate progression provisions in effect during hi: Upon such re-employment, the credited rate progre period of employment In the bargaining unit shall be to the maximum base rate of the job classification
prior bargaining unit employment, ssion period of the employee's prior applied toward his rate progression
(d)	— New employees hired on or after the effective date of this Agreement, who do not hold a seniority date in the bargaining unit t ut were formerly employed and had acquired seniority in the bargaining unit and who I ad broken such seniority due to being laid off for a continuous period equal to the s sniority he had acquired at the time of such layoff period or due to having retired for	other than total and permanent
disability shall receive a base rate upon re-emplo 'ment which has the same relative position to the maximum base rate of the job classi ication as had been attained by the employee In his prior bargaining unit employment. Such employee shall continue to be covered by the rate progression provisions in eff ict during his prior bargaining unit employment. Upon such re-employment, the crec ited rate progression period of the employee’s prior period of employment in the barga ning unit shall be applied toward his rate progression to the maximum base rate of the j >b classification.
(e)	— The foregoing Subsections (b) thro pi classifications covered by the skilled trades section
30.3 The Company agrees to pay employ ees on Thursday of each week on
Company time for the pay period ending the previi
igh (d) shall not apply to job of the Agreement.
itfl
s Saturday midnight.
55
30.4	Employees working on a n cents per hour. A night shift shalloon: hours fall between 5 P.M. and 7 A.M. N< day shift employee who works overtime addition to his overtime pay.
Iht shift shall receive an off shift premiumOf3! lute any regular shift in which the majority o ting herein shall be construed as entitling an] etween the said hours to off shift Premium ir
30.5
Classifications - Schedule "A Base hourly Wage Rates Effective
Classification
Assembler Gen. Maintenance Fales Operator Stock Picker Assemblerlnsp. Stock Chaser V\felt Fabricator Sewer
Stockperson Q.C, Inspector Rec, Inspector Tool CribAtt'cJt. Truck Driver Gerber Operator Transport Driver
Skilled Trades Lift Truck Repair Sewing Mach. Rep. Stl. Rule-DieMkr, Millwright T00I& Die Maker ElectricalTech.
Dec. 21, .1992.
$14.88
14.88
14.88
14.88 15.02
15.12 15.18
15.32
15.32
15.62
15.62
15.62
15.62 15.67
16.12
$18.41
18.41
18.41
18.41 18.61 18.62
Dec. 20, -1993-
$15.13
15.13
15.13
15.13 15.27
15.37 15.43
15.57
15.57
15.87
15.87
15.87
15.87 15.92
16.37
$18.96
18.96
18.96
18.96
19.16
19.17
3% overhighei oup they lead
Dec.19
-1994-
$15.38'
15.38
15.38
15.38 15.52
15.62 15.68
15.82
15.82 16.12 16.12 16.12 16.12 16,17
16.62
$19.51
19.51
19.51
19.51
19.71
19.72
57
Leader
The following classifications to be (Fed Circled):
Fales Leader Fales Set-Up Leader Packer/Operator (rateFled Circle)and presentclassificationto be reclassified as Assembler
Upon ratificationthe classificationLe> be paidata rate of 3% overhighestgroupth Room Leader has no jurisdiction over the G
J.l.T. Stockperson - itis recognize recognized as a separate section of the Mr
30.6 Should there be an overpa; employees, inwriting,ofwithdrawing adjusti of such overpayment. Failure on the Com|i null and void.
derto include all Leader Classifications and ey lead. It being understoodthat the Cutting erber Operator.
c| by the Company thatJ.l.T. Stockpersonare terial Handling Department.
yment of wages, the Company must notify a sixty (60) day period from date any's part will result in any claim becoming
ARTICLE 31 - COST-OF-LIVING ALLOW
ANCE
31.1 The Cost-ot-Living Allowance employee for each hour worked. The amour t any given time shall be included in computirji call-in pay, call back pay, bereavement pay,
31.2	The Cost-of-Living Allowance Price Index published by Statistics Canada specified In Article 31, Section 3 with one
provided herein shall be paid to each of the Cost-of-Living Allowance in effect at g vacation pay, holiday pay, stand-by pay, j jry duty pay, and subpoenaed witness pay.
V rill
continue to be based on the Consumer 1981 = 100) and adjusted up or down as ent ($.01) adjustment for each .125 point
5£
31.3	Adjustments during the following times:
Based Upon Three-Month Average of the Consumer Price Indexes for:
Effective Date of Adjustment
March 15, 1993

First pay period beginning on or after June 21, 1993 and at three calendar month intervals thereafterto September^, 1995.
December, 1992, January and February, 1993
March, calendar July, anr
t pril
il and May, 1993 and at three month intervals thereafter to June,
Annn^t 1995.
In determining the three-month average oi ine indexes for a specified period, the computed average shalt be rounded to the nearest .01 Index Point.
31.4	Effective the beginning of the pa> period commencing on or after The
effective date of this Agreement, fifty cents (S0.5C Living Allowance in effect immediately prior to th: base rate for each classification.
A |i
The amount of Cost of Living Allowance eft commencing on or after the effective date of the shall be the sum of the Cost of Living Allowance Cost of Living Allowance adjustments dated June 1 the Cost of Living Allowance folded-in to the base
31.5	Effective March 15, 1993 and for the provided in Article 31, Section 3, the Cost-of-Livirl
shall be deducted from the Cost of t date and shalt be added to the full
■clive the beginning of the pay period reement and ending March 15,1993 n effect on March 16, 1992 plus the i, 1992 and September21,1992, less hourly rates on December 21, 1992.
next ten (10)three-month periods as a Allowance shall be adjusted up or
59
down with a one cent ($0.01)adjustmentfor e&Ch .125 point change in the average index for the appropriate three months over the previous three month average as provided in Article 31, Section 3.
m
31.6	In the event that Statistics C Consumer Price Index on or before the beg in Article 31, Sections, any adjustmentinthe appropriate Index shall be effective at the beg. has been officially published.
anada does not issue the appropriate ing of one of the pay periods referred to ost-of-Living Allowance required by such ihning of the first pay period after the Index
31.7	No adjustment, retroactive, orotfn which may laterbe made inthe publishedfigu Consumer Price Index,for any month or mont Allowance has been determined.
erwise, shall be made due to any revision ies used inthe calculationof the Canadian i son the basis of which the Cost-of-Living
31.6 The continuance of the Cost-of the availability of the official monthly Indexe presentform and calculatedon the same ba otherwise agreed upon by the parties. If si calculatingitsConsumer Price Index,and suet Living Allowance pursuant to the provision: request such agency to make available, fc Consumer Price Index in its presentform and for October, 1992.
.iving Allowanceshall be contingent upon published by Statistics Canada in their is as the Indexfor October, 1992 unless :h agency changes the form or basis of Index is requiredto determine the Cost-of-of this Agreement, the parties agree to the life of this Agreement, a monthly :alculatedon the Same basis as the Index
ARTICLE 32 - ENTRY OF PLANT PREMIS
IS
32.1	It is specifically agreedthat inthd feventof a strike the Unionwill not refuse entry to the plant premisesto any salaried emblovee of Canadian Fabricated Products and/or the Corporation.
60
ARTICLE33 - INTERPRETATION CLAUSE
33.1	Wherever the feminine or singular h s been used throughout the above agreement, it shall be taken to Include the masclline or plural where the context so allows.
ARTICLE34 - SKILLED TRADES
34.1	Seniority In the skilled trades depanqpem trades. Seniority lists shall be by basic trade and member elected by the Skilled Trades.
34.2
(a)	—Employeesworking underskilledtrade ‘A’ of the Collective Working Agreementdated Ap Trades classificationas of April 3/72, have their totjki Future employees entering a Skilled Trades classifii i of entry seniority.
(b)	— It is understood that a productionornc i-production employeeshallbe given preferentialconsiderationfor transfer to the Skilledfrades department over that of a new hire.
snail oe by non-Interchangeable ill be represented by one committee
classificationcontained in Schedule 3/72, shall, if employedln a Skilled JI seniority in their trade classification. after April 3/72, shall have date
(o) —Should a production or non-productioni employee transfer fo a SkilledTrades department he shall be allowed a twenty (20) days worked period during which time his qualifications and performance shall be assessed Should the employee fail to show satisfactory qualification or performance he will t s returned to the department from which he came on the following basis:
1.	— The employee will fill an open v icancy should one exist.
2.	— Failing (1) the employee will dis 3lace a probationary employee.
3.	— Failing (2) the employee will dial
with lesser seniority.
lace the junior employee in the plant
61
the employee becapableof performing
the job.
34.3	Skilled Tradesmen affected permitting, first, a probationary, secondly the junior employee of another trade provi is necessary in order to exercise seniority
Should an employee elect not to employee with lesser seniority in the plant as work he is capable of performing is seniority. This provision shall not bedeenji and recall provisions.
by a layoff may elect to displace, seniority he junior employee of their trade, and thirdly idling he is qualified. If however, a shift change overtime will not be paid under Article 23.5.
exercise his seniority rights to displace an he shall be retained on layoff until such time Available in the plant in accordance with his to modify the specific Skilled Trades layoff
(c)	— Who has eight (8) years of practical classification In which he claims journeyman's d^: U.A.W./C.A.W. Journeyman's Card will be accept
:td
The Company agrees to make available Committee Member proof of qualifications of any Employees transferring into the skilled trades will filing his requester transfer.
on request to the Skilled Trades lewly hired skilled trades employee, irovide proof of qualification prior to
34.6 Any further employment in the skilled t Agreement shall be limited to journeymen and app
34.7	During any period when journeyn en/ journeywomen are unavailable,
it is agreed that non-journeymen employees whose
experience in the skilled trades signation and can prove same. A as proof.
ades occupations after signing of this entices.
duties shall be to assist journeymen
may be hired or re-classified on a temporary basi > to supplement the work force in a
skilled trades classification, and shall be known as
employees and new supplemental employees for r ew hires.
The opportunity to work as a Supplemental laid off Skilled Trades employee in order of seniority laid off employee with seniority who has the presen work. If there are no laid off employees eligible, temporary basis.
When a journeyman becomes available he ■
classification to which a supplemental employee f as been assigned and if hired such
Journeyman will replace the supplemental employee
to his original department. A supplemental employe 3 shall not accumulate seniority within
the skilled trades classification but shall accumulate such plant- wide seniority to return to his former job
as provided elsewhere in the Agreement
supplemental employees for present
employee shall be offered (1) to any (2) to seniority employees; (3) to any ability or an adaptable skill to do the new employees may be hired on a
vill be considered for hire in a skilled
who shall then be laid off or returned
alant-wide seniority and may exercise or to apply for vacancies in the plant
63
Should the need arise for Supplemdrii by employees other than those in Skilled Ma and 12.16 will apply.
Supplemental employees other thar j hour below the minimum journeyman's ra:
A journeyman Skilled Trades empkr trade shall be paid on the basis of his own trade to which he has been assigned, whi):l
ital help in the Skilled Trades area on overtime des the procedure as outlined in Article 12.15
purneymen shall receive five cents ($0.05) per e of the classification or trade.
yee who Is used to supplement into another rate of pay or the maximum rate of pay of the thever is the greater.
34.8 Notwithstanding the above pi any employee of production or nonproduckii in 34.5(b) or (c) used to supplement the si. of a journeyman in that trade in accordanc rate. Such employees shall not accumulate but shall accumulate plant-wide seniority ii
i^ragraph 34.7 during the model change period ion possessing the qualifications as outlined illed trades work force shall be paid the rate e with Schedule "A", starting at the minimum seniority within the skilled trades classification accordance with the provisions of 34.7.
34.9 Any overtime assignment sc teduled shall first be offered for purpose of supplementation, to skilled trades employ ees m other trades lowest in overtime Bnd
qualified to perform the work before being ofli
The provision of this paragraph shall not require that the Company call in skilled trades employees from layoff.
34.10	In the event of an increase classification except Sewing Machine Repair shall apply:
(a)	— First new hire supplement; il probationary journeymen will be laid off fronji
ered to employees outside the skilled trades.
or decrease in force in any skilled trades and Lift Truck Repair the following procedure
second plant supplemental and third their skilled trades classification.
(b)	- If any further employees are to be r
such employeeswill be laid off or transferred in order of their seniority from such skilled trades classification.
(c)	— Employees affected by a layoff or cut • bump other employees in another trades classil Recalls shall be made according to seniority within
bfick as stated in (a) or (b) above may cation for which they are qualified, the classification.
(d)	— Sewing Machine Repair and/or Lift Trufci-i Repair classification affected by a
layoff or cut back will exercise their plant seniority
plant, subject to the provisions of Article 13, Sectio is 13.4, 13.5, 13.6, 13.7,
Upon recall to Sewing Machine Repair and, employees affected by a layoff or cutback will returfi
o displace a junior employee in the
or Lift Truck Repair clalssifications, to their previous classification.
Test Results will be made available to the dilled Trades Committee person and the employee.
34.11	Should a skilled trades employee possessing journeyman's qualifications in another trade as listed under the skilled trades ai >pendices request a transfer and be transferred from his present classification into anothe ■ skilled trades classification, he shall retain seniority in his former classification for ninety (iCi) calendar days, after which he will
forfeit his seniority rights in his former skilled trades This transfer shall not apply to layoff or recall and i:
34.12	Any employee of skilled trades who by disability is unable to perform the work in their reg opportunity to:
classification from the date of entry, limited to once yearly.
reason of advanced age or physical Jlar classification shall be given the
(a)	— Displace an employee with less Seniority in another skilled trades classification which he is capable of performing.
65
(b)	— Failing (a) such employee seniority into a production or nonproductiofi job is available. If no such job is available job becomes available.
^hall be permitted to exercise his total plant job which he is capable of performing if such he shall remain on medical leave until such a
When the employee is physically classification he shall return with his total
34.13	The Company agrees that ii Supervision. In the absence of such supi may issue instructions, in an obvious employee.
if any employee of skilled trades cannot be
trades classification until such time as v/o
able to return to his previous skilled trades accumulated seniority.
ir structions will be given only by Maintenance it rvlsion it is agreed that any other Supervisor emergency instructions may be given by an
34.14	Work performed by the Company's Skilled Trades shall be done by employees who are covered by classifications and rates as outlined in Schedule ‘A" appended to this agreement between the C ompany and the Union. It is understood that
occupied at his trade for a period of 8 hours
per day it is agreed that such employee s lall be permitted to work in any other skilled
k in his own classification is available. It is
further understood that any emergency situation durinq production hours may be handled by any skilled tradesmen.
34.15	The Company will make avaif &le the necessary training for newtechnology including pneumatics in order to properly simce plant equipment and facilities maintained by the skilled trades employees.
34.16
(a)	— A roup Leader of skilled trades employees shall be defined as one who is a skilled trades employee, who leads or processes the work of
(b)	- Only a journeyman shall be considered as a Group Leader in his respective trade, on the understandingthatthis does not prohibit such Group Leaderfrom leading other skilled trades employees.
(c)	—Theratesfor Group Leadersare detailed on the schedule ofwages attached to this Agreement.
(d)	- A Group Leader shall be considered I remaining in his basic trade while acting as a Group Leader. A Group Leader may be retained in overtime outside the normal overtime distribution procedure where he b specifically required as a Group Leader.
34.17	If an emergency arises requiring skilltjd trades employees to work through
a rest or lunch period, these employees will rece earliest possible time.
34.18	All sections of this Agreement shall ap except to the extent that if an interpretative confli section and the rest of the Agreement, the specifi prevail.
/e the lost rest or lunch period the
ply to employees inthe SkilledTrades a: arises between the terms of this term or terms of this section shall
nnual Skilled Trades Council dues (forty) hours employment for new
34.19	The Company agrees to deduct the during the month of January each year, or after 4|
hires,or on the return to work, if not previously checked off,for SkilledTrades employees covered by the Agreement. Deduction of all dues mall be made in accordance with the provision of Article 4 - Union Security and Check.ol
67
ARTICLE 35 - AUTOMATIC SHORT WE |iK BENEFIT PLAN SECTION 1.
Continuation and Amendment of the Plat
maintainthe Automatic Short Week Benefit is attached as Exhibit C to this Collective 'he Planas amendedshallbecome effective e Company of any required rulings referred to the provisionsof Section4 of this Article, rit C Automatic Short Week Benefit Plan,"
(a)—TheCompany shallcontinuetc Plan (herein referred to as the 'Plan'?whic BargainingAgreement dated Dec.16/1992. as of Jan. 1/1993 subject to the receipt by tl to in Section 4 of this Article, so that, subject it shall read thereafter as set forth in "Exh
(b) - The Company shall maintaint e Plan for the duration of this Agreement, except as otherwise provided in, and subjer to the terms of the Plan.
SECTION 2.
Obligations During Term of the Collective Bargaining Agreement
Duringthe term of the CollectiveBarg the Unionshall request any change in,deleft or be required to bargainwith respecttoany Article; and during such period no change ir or interpretation, of the Plan or this Article st for any action or failure to act, including,wi stoppage, lockout, picketing or other exerc
Agreement, neither the Company nor n from or additionto the Plan or this Article, irovisiorl or interpretationof the Plan or this deletion from or addition to any provision, be an objective of, or a reason or cause limitation, any strike, slowdown, work of economic force, or threat thereof, by
6i
SECTION 3.
Effective of Termination of the Collective Bargaining Agreement
Anything hereinwhich might be construedlo the contrary notwithstanding,it is understood that termination of the CollectiveBargpining Agreement shall not have the effect of automatically terminating the Plan,
SECTION 4.
Governmental Rulings
(a)—The amendment of the Planwhichis pjbvided in Sectionl of this Article and incorporated in Exhibit C to the Collective Bargai ling Agreement shall be subject to receipt by the Company from the Ministerof Nation I Revenue of any ruling, satisfactory to the Company,that may be required holding that of National Revenue.
(b) — TheCompany shall apply promptlyformne rulingsdescribed/'n subsection A of this Section.
(c)	— Notwithstanding any other provision
Company, with the consent of the Union may, durir 3 the term of this Agreement, make
revisions in the Plan not inconsistent with the purpc thereof which shall be necessary to obtain or maintai Section or in the Plan Any such revisions shall a language and intent of the Plan
oi inis Article or of the Plan, the
ses, structure and basic provisions 1 any of the rulings referredto in this (here as closely as possible to the
ARTICLE 36 - INJURY AT WORK
36.1	An employee injured at work s shift (includingovertime)on which the inju employee requires medicaltreatment as de
ARTICLE 37 - GENERAL AR'!CLE
37.1	The Union recognize- the re: bargainingagent of the unit, and realizes th: for continuing employment, good working must be in a strong market position The U
all be paid for the balance of his scheduled occurred if, as a result of such injury the ied under the Workers' CompensationAct.
imposed upon it as the exclusive in order to provide maximum opportunities and good wages, the Company ion, therefore, agrees that it will co-operate
ARTICLE36 - DURATION
JtC
This agreement shall become effective-as ( in full force and effect until 11:59 P.M. Dec. automatically renewed from year to year unless ii writing to the other party of the desire to terminate notice to be given not earlierthan sixty days anc annual termination date. If such notice is given, begin within ten days following such notice.
scomber 16, 1992 and shall remain 1995-and thereafter. it shall be iy year, either party gives notice in ise or amendthis agreement, such t later than thirty days prior to the otiatipns between the parties shall
inwitness thereof the parties hereto have e 1992 at the City of Stratford in the County of Perl
uted this agreement as of June 18, i be effective Decembers, 1992,
National Automobile, Aerospace and Agricultural Implement Workers Union of Canada, (CAW-Canada)_______________
Fabricated Products A.d|lvlslon of Chrysler Canada 1
RonPellerin Don Major Larry Williams RobertWeyers LarryGettler Roxie Baker LindaHowie SharonLupton L. Allen Standen
C. A. Cooper
J.	I. Dunn
K.	J. Bovaird R. M. Robbins C. M. Horeempa G. H. Brown
P. K. Carswell
71
ARTICLE 39 - GROUP INSURANCE A1 GENERAL PROVISIO
D GROUP HEALTHCARE BENEFITS S AND ADMINISTRATION
Establishment of the Programs
Canadian Fabricated Products, her^i National Automobile, Aerospace and Agri (CAW) and its Local No. 1325, hereinafter Group Health Care Benefits Program, attacl Program, attached hereto as Exhibit B and of the Company through the purchase of c or by arrangement with group insurance ca be at the sole option of the Company unle| Law. The Company will be responsible include enrollment of employees, distributi accepting cash contributions where appr claims. Benefits provided by Govemmerjti Programs and in lieu of similar benefits
ic Jit
ted f
inafter referred lo as the Company, and the Itural Implement Workers Union of Canada
referred to as the Union, have agreed on a hereto as Exhibit A and a Group Insurance :o provide benefits to hourly rated employees roup insurance policies, self-insurance funds tiers. The method of providing benefits shall s such is mandated by Provincial or Federal f the administration of the Programs which on of certificates of insurance, if applicable, (priate, issuing claim forms and processing al Units or Agencies will be part of these prcjvided herein.
ftll
Financing
During the Term of this agreemer
expenses of providing the group insurance >nd health care benefits coverages contained
in the Programs and will receive and retair any other refunds from any insurance ca provider. In addition, the Company will con
of an employee eligible to continue certain c when due.
, the Company will pay the administration
any dividends, divisible surplus, interest or ■rier, governmental unit or agency or other inue certain group insurance and health care
benefits coverages as described elsewhere in these Programs,during periods of layoff or leave of absence and where applicable, receive cash contributions from applicable employees in advance of the month for vhich coverage is sought. The Company, however, will not assume any responsibility or liability which may result from the failure
jveraaes to make the required cash payment
72
Letter#!
Mr. R. Pellerin
National RepresentativeC.A.W. 205 PlacerCourt Willowdale. Ontario
2e Funding For Education Purposes
DearMr. Pellerin:
As a part of the 1992 negotiations the Combany agreed that effective December 21, 1992, itwould accrue two (2) cents for each ho jr (excluding anyvacation period)for which employees in the bargaining unit are comaensated, to be used for educational purposes. Such accrued amounts shall be paid a the end of each quarter into a trust fund established by the National l	Region at their headquarters.
Uponwritten applicationat leastfour weeks Union shall be granted a leave of absence without not to exceed, in any twelve (12) months, twenty where necessary. Such leave l from the educational program funded whojly,or ir
above and will be limited to four employees at anv
advance, employees selected by the pay from the Company for a period 20) days class time plus travel time ily to employees selected to benefit-''j'" part from the trust fund referred to one time in this particular program.
Employeesgranted such leavesof absenceilwill continue to accrue seniority and benefits during such leave.
Yol|s truly,
K. J| Bovaird
Hunlian Resources Manager
Accepted and approved:
National Union (CAW-Canada) R. Pellerin
National RepresentativeC.A.W,
73
Letter#?
Mr. R. Pellerln
National RepresentativeC.A.W. 205 Placer Court Willowdale. Ontario
DearMr. Pellerin:
Job Movement • Sewing Department
During the recent negotiations con! the Union's requestfor a system of job rd
iderable discussion was held with respecttc ation within the sewing department.

After a thorough evaluation of all variables of production requirements, schedule changes, changes in styling etc. It was found that it would not be practical tc establish a formal rotation program. Itwas Beed however, that inorderto address any potentialproblemaUnion/ManagementCo Bittee consistingof the Chairperson, Benefil Representative,Area Committeeperson,Pr Baton Managerand PersonnelManagerwill meet every sixty calendar days in order Beview any individual case, which merits considerationupon employee's request tot I Union and/or Personnel Manager with the view of finding a satisfactory resolutionof t Bindividualcase.
Itwas further agreedthat within 60 dtns ofthe date of ratification, a joint committee consisting cf 2 members from the union nd 2 members from the company will be established to determine, assess, and Impement the movement of sewers from light nature sewing operationsonto more ditficul (operations. The goal ofthis processwill be to obtain Immediate relief for those sewUs who are continuously on more difficult operations.
Itwas further agreedthat the movement of sewers in all sections Is a desired goal for the parties to achieve.
74
To this end a determined effort will be matje to promotejob movement among sewers, ineachsectionduringthe 18 monthperioafollowingratification,recognizingthat this programwill requireextensivetrainingof sewe| operators. The joint committeewill meet as requiredto evaluatethe progressthat is rising achieved.
Should the goals d this program not bo fnet, the parties agree to have the Corporation’sLabourRelationsExecutive,andthes Ilnion’sNationalPresidentinvolvedin determining that the failure of the programwas fol legitimate reasons.
Yoij-s truly.
K. J. Bovaird
Hiirfian Resources Manager
Accepted and agreed:
R. Pellerin
National RepresentativeC.A.W.
75
Letter #3
Mr. R, Pellerin
National Representative C,A, W.
205 PlacerCourt Willowdale, Ontario
Holiday Pay- Temporary Layoff
DearMr, Pellerin:
A seniority employee who is temp workweek prior fo a week in which oneoi period falls, and who worked the employ layoff, shall, if otherwise eligible, receive ps holidayperiod. A seniorityemployeewho week prior to a week in which one or more falls and who worked the employee's las shall, if otherwise eligible, receive pay fo Christmas holiday period. An employee holidays following the employee's retun indefinitely laid off shall receive Payfor sue Christmas Holiday period. Should any e following the Christmas Holidayperiod, he
or indefinitely laid off during the fourth of the holidays in the Christmasholiday last scheduled working day prior to such for the holidays falling during such Christmas I laid off during the fifth, sixth or seventhwork holidaysinthe Christmas holiday period scheduled working day prior to such layoff one-half of the holidays falling during such laid off shall receive pay for such to work from such layoff. An employee holidays on the second paydayfollowing the be placed on layoff on the first day ill quality for the series of holidays provided
Very truly yours,
K. J. Bovaird
Human ResourcesManager
7$
Letter#4
Mr. R. Pellerin
National RepresentativeC.A.W. 205 Placer Court Willowdale, Ontario
Overtime on Partial/Single Shift Operation
DearMr. Pellerin:
During the 1977 negotiations on a new considerable discussion ' overtime and formalized method of equalization of
collective bargaining agreement, request for a system of voluntary overtime.
Itisnecessaryto applythe overtime provisions of Article 23, Section23.7 aswritten when plantschedulescall for full departmentalovevirne or where necessary to meet the product requirements of our customer.
However, when time and circumstanceperrrlt, the Company is willing to consider individual requeststo decline overtime assignmenti offered with no notation made on the employee’s absentee record, where partial operai ons or a single shift of a multi-shift department are scheduled and there are qualified p sople who normally perform the work available and willing to work. Under these condi i overtime assignments will start with employees normally perform the work according i o the provisions of Article 23, Section 23.8 ■ 23.9 -23.10 - 23.11 -23.12.
Youf-s truly.
i ions the selection of employees for owest in hours among those who
K. J Bovaird
Murrain Resources Manager
Accepted and agreed:
R, Pellerin
National RepresentativeCAW
77
Letter #5
Mr. R, Pellerin
National RepresentativeC.A.W. Court Ontario
Overtime ScheduledOne Hour or Less
DearMr. Pellerin:
As agreed during our recentnegotiati fis, the Companywill continue its practice of allowing employees to bring a light refres Tient to their work station, when overtime is either scheduled for one (1) hour or lessor I hen it appearsthat unscheduled overtime will not exceed one (1) hour.
The Company expects that this ic:e will be carried out in an expeditious
fashion.
Yours truly,
K. J. Bovaird
Human ResourcesManager
Letter #6
Mr. R. Pellerin
National RepresentativeC.A.W, 205 Placer Court Willowdale, Ontario
Snsport Driver (1/2)
Hour Paid Lunch
Dear Mr. Pellerin:
As agreed upon during negotiations, in thi event the classification of transport driver has to perform the function of the job outsid > nhe city limits of Stratford during his normal lunch period, he will receive a half (1/2) h :ur paid lunch at straight time. Also abnormal expense incurred as a result of inclement weather or mechanical break down will be reimbursed upon receipts being presented fo the Company.
Yojrs truly.
K. JL Bovaird
Hum?in Rocnurres Manager
79
Letter#?
Mr, R. Pellerin
NationalRepresentativeC.A.W,
205 Placer Court WHIowdale, Ontario
Multi-Shift- Hours of Work Schedule
DearMr, Pellerin:
As agreed during our 1992 negotiations, considerable discussion was held regarding the desire of employees assignet I to multi-shift operations to have an early quitting time on Friday evenings when worki ig the afternoon shift. In order to address this situation the Company is willing to offer employees the right to work the following modified afternoon shift pattern:
Monday Through Thursday
An eight and one half f8%JhourshiftvJorked at straighttimerates including COLA plus shift premiumwith two tpn (10) minutes rest periods and a twenty (20) minute lunch period.
Friday
A six (6) hour shift worked at straight time rates including COLA plus shift premiumwith two twenty (20)
Minister of Labour under the
NOTE:
Ail hours worked beyond eight and ore and six (6) hours Friday will be consideredov time worked over forty hours per week shall I and a half.
8C
continued.. .
To the extentthat the above contemplated be effective notwithstandinginconsistentprovision Work and Overtime, and Article 28, Section 28.2. not effective,Article 23, Section23,1 andArticle2E
are put into effect, they shall of Article 23, Section23.1 — Hours of When and where such schedules are Section 28.2 shall continue to apply.
The provisions of Article 24 paid honaays snail be aoplied as follows:
Should a holiday fall on a Friday, -
of work shall consist of 8'A hours Monday-
Thursday, worked at straight time
with a rest period often (10) minutes for the
of the second half shift and a twenty (20) rr
regular work week, the hours Wednesday and 6’A hours on ding COLA plus shift premium first half shiftmen (10) minutes inute lunch period.
Should a holiday fall on a Monday-
shall be extended by one-half (’A) hour for jach holiday falling during the regularwork week and the provisions of Art cle 23, Section 23.1 relatedto the payment of overtime shall shift.
It is understood that to meetthe needsof oilr customers, it may be necessary for some employees to work an adjusted shift pattern)
Yolks truly,
K. 4 Bovaird
an Resources Manager
Accepted and Approved:
National Union, (CAW-Canada) R. Pellerin
National RepresentativeCAW
81
Letter#8
Mr. R. Pellerin
NationalRepresentativeB.A.W 205 Placer Court Willowdale, Ontario
Dear Mr, Pellerin:
Drug and Alcohol Abuse
The Company and Unionrecognlzr further agree to enlarge the program in ■ employees.
The presentcommitteecf oneappr Company will continue to work togetherto problem.
e problem of Drug and Alcohol abuse and areas of education and awareness to its
sd by the Unionand one appointed by the sist employees with a Drugand/or Alcohol
Yours truly,
K. J. Bovalrd
Human Resources Manager
Letter #9
Mr. R. Pellerin
NationalRepresentativeC.A.W. 205 PlacerCourt Willowdale, Ontario
Job Rotation- Doorline, Dielectric and Manual Button Operations
Dear Mr, Pellerin
It will be the intentof Managementto rotate and manual button pounding operations particularly it cannot be done on a scheduled basis because ot remanassigning, and the necessity to provide repl;
/Jssemblers on the Doorline, Dielectric on strenuous operations. However, itjproduct mix which requirescontinual cement-relief for on-line employees.
off-line and on-line, can d to temporarily perform n this case the Packer
Operator will continue to get his normal pay rate.
Youfs truly,
K, Bovaird
an ResourcesManager
83
Letter# 10
Mr. R. Pellerin
National RepresentativeC.A.W. 205 Placer Court Willowdale, Ontario
Failureto PunchTIme Card
DearMr. Pellerin
As agreed during negotiations if an have it initialled by his supervisor. A si concerned was on duty on time, will noti punch during a pay period. In all other ca time will be made.
r.ployee fails to punch his clock card he must ervisor, if he is satisfied that the employee thereon "No Penalty1'for one such failure to ss a deduction of six (6) minutes from regular
Should a timeclockmalfunctionthei nployee will notify their supervisor immediately in orderthat timekeeping may take appro hate CorrectiveAction.
Yours truly,
K. J. Bovalrd
Human ResourcesManager
Letter#! 1
Mr. R. Pellerln
National Representative^ A.W. 205 PlacerCourt Willowdale. Ontario
ion Notificationon New Equipment
DearMr. Pellerin
As agreeduponduring negotiations,the Cor any will notify the PlantChairperson, Skilled Trades Committeeperson, and areaCommi eporson of any newequipment (not replacement equipment of a similar technology).
Yo i truly,
K, Bovaird
Hu in Resources Manager
85
Letter #12
Mr. R. Pellerin
National RepresentativeC.A.W 205 PlacerCourt Willowdale. Ontario
Apprenticeship Programme
DearMr. Pellerin:
During negotiations for renewal of current Collective Agreement, there was discussion on the need to establish an apprenticeship programme.
The Company reviewed ( conditions, etc. and statedthat, not appropriate at the presenttime.
The Company does however anticipate tnat in the future there will be sufficient improvement in overall conditions, to justify the introduction of Apprenticeship Programme, as negotiatedwith the C.A.V\
Should our expectations materialize will meet with the Unionto negotiatethe introduction of such a programme.
Yours truly,
K. J. Bovaird
Human Resources Manager
Letter #13
Mr, R, Pellerin
NationalRepresentativeC.A.W,
205 Placercourt Willowdale, Ontario
Skilled Trade's Tools
Dear Mr, Pellerin:
As agreed during the 1989 negotiations the [ollowing Letter of Understanding:
MetricTools
Other than the tools a tradesman is person will maintainthe necessary tools inthe Crib forth,
y required to provide,the Company use of Tradesmen.
Theft of Tools
Inthe event of a theft of a Tradesman's per! ial tools, they will be replaced upon verification by the Maintenance Superintendent.
Broken or Worn Tools
Each tradesman must and replacement value a list
Reverificationof the tools may be made byth^j MaintenanceSuperintendentwher he deems it necessary.
provide to the Maintenance Superintendent for verification of current tools in his ,
YourJ truly.
K. J. bovaird
Human Resources Manager
Letter# 14
Mr. R. Pellerln
National RepresentativeC.A.W 205 PlacerCourt Willowdale, Ontario
Coveralls/Smocks
Dear Mr. Pellerin
During the 1989 negotiations, it wlps agreed that the Company will reviewthe method of issuing cf coveralls/smocks a endeavourto ensure that coveralls/smocks will be issued only to employees in a d Trades, Material Handling, and General Maintenanceand that they will bepropei maintained.
Yours truly,
K. J. Bovaird
Human ResourcesManager
Letter #15
Mr. R. Pellerin
National Representative C.A.W, 205 PlacerCourt Willowdale, Ontario
Training. NewTechnology
DearMr, Pellerin:
As agreed upon during negotiations employees where applicable shall be trained to service or operate any new '	or equipment being introduced to
the production process.
This training will be made available I	specializedprogrammes
deemed necessary to implementthis newtechnology where it is agreed that such work falls within the scope of the bargainingunit.
Yourd trulv.
K. J. jiovaird
HLmT Rliburces Manager
89
Letter# 16
Mr. R, Pellerin
National RepresentativeC.A.W. 205 PlacerCourt Willowdale, Ontario
S&A andWCB ReturntoWork Program
Dear Mr. Pellerin
During our recent negotiationsitW^s agreed by both the Union and Management that i was highly desirable that Employees absent due to Sickness & Accident or Workers’ Compensation, be returned to 'Tork as soon as possible.
It was further agreed that both parties would work to this end, recognizing physical and medical restrictions.
In order to assist the established present to the Personnel Office, medical c and medical restriction letters must be up-disability is established and accepted by
oint Placement Committee, employees must ocumentation outlining all medical restrictions dated on a monthly basis, unless a permanent the Company.
The Company will meet periodical y with the Union members cf the Placement Committee to review the status of employees on benefits with Medical Restrictions.
It may be necessaryfor the employee to attend such meeting.
Permanent/Long Term Dlsabl Hty
Shouldan errpioyee, with a permi ’ent or long term disability, return to work with MedcalRestricticrsard be required to v,brk in another department, the employee will retainSurplus/Recall ricjTts under the terns of the CollectiveAgreementfor a period of twelve (12) months. At any time during tfi3 twelve (12) month period should transfers to other departments be required due to additional medical problems, the employee will
90
e. An employee will be assigned which he is located at the end of the
twelve (12) month period.
Short Term Disability
Should an employee suffer a short term diSE oility. the Company will endeavour to place the employee in a Department/Classification t latwill meet their medical restrictions, provided the department is not in a surplus situate . Employees on short term disability will be ineligible for temporary transfers or partial c|/ertime assignments.
You^s truly.
K. j| Bovaird
Human Resources Manaaer
91
Letter# 17
Mr. H. Pellerln
National RepresentativeC.A.W. 205 PlacerCourt Willowdale, Ontario
Job Opportunity in a New Plant
Dear Mr. Pellerin:
Duringthe recently concluded 198S of job security. The Company has advise Company business require a decision i Fabricated Products plant and will resultl roll employees, the Company will meet discuss the impact of such decision consideration at other Chrysler Canada p
igotiations the partiesdiscussed the subject he Union that in the event circumstances of ch has a major impact on the Canadian he Permanentlayoff of a majority of the on h representatives of the National Union to id the opportunity for preferential hiring its in Ontario.
Yours truly,
K. J. Bovaird
Human Resources Manager
Letter# 18
Mr. R. Pellerin
National Representative C.A,W, 205 PlacerCourt Willowdale. Ontario
?ay Stjpri age Greater Than Four (4) Hours
Dear Mr. Pellerin:
During our recent negotiations it was agreed |h it should there be a pay shortage
greater than four (4) hours the Company will make
day, providing a complaint is made to the Compand r rior to T.00 P.M
a pay adjustment on the same pay
Your| truly,
K. J. |b ovaird
Humyr Resources Manager
93
Letter# 19
Mr. R. Pellerin
National RepresentativeC.A.W. 205 Placer Court Wllowdale. Ontario
In Plant Lightingand Fans
DearMr. Pellerin:
As agreed during negotiations, tl > Company Will ensure adequate lighting is provided in the plant and all fans Will be Sviewed and in working order by April 1st of each year.
The Company further agrees to in |'easethe number of Oscillating fans.
Yours truly,
K. J. Bovaird
Human Resources Manager
Letter#20
Mr. R. Pellerln
NationalRepresentativeC.A.W 205 PlacerCourt Willowdale, Ontario
Access Road
DearMr, Pellerin:
During our recent negotiations it was agreed (hat the Company and Unionwill make a joint submission to City Council For an additional access road from Packham Roadto Lome Avenue.
Youit truly,
K. J. Ibovaird
Hum|n Resources Manager
95
Letter#21
Mr. R. Pallerin
National Representative^ A, W. 205 Placer Court Willowdale, Ontario
Distributionof Literature
DearMr. Pellerin;
During the 1983 negotiationsthe allowingC.A.W. Locali325to distributen and will allow such distribution insidethe
Company agreed to continue its practice of ^-political literature at the Employeeentrance Employeeentranceduring inclementweather.
Yours truly,
K, J. Bovaird
Human Resources Manager
)6
Letter #22
Mr. R. Pellerln
NationalRepresentativeC.A.W, 205 Placer Court Willowdale. Ontario
Healthand Safety
DearMr, Pellerln
During negotiations of 1989 the Union a|d the Company had considerable discussionover matters pertainingto Health^ Safety
As a resultof those discussions :	ern of the Company and the Union,
both parties agree to participatefully in all Health an$ Safety programswhich aredirected by Chrysler Canada.
In addition, both parties agreed that the follbwing letters contained in the 1990 Chrysler Canada- CAW MasterAgreementwouldbf recognized and have applicationto this agreement.
Letter79 Letter 81 Letter 85 Letter 86 Letter 87 Letter88 Letter89 Letter92 Letter93 Letter94 Letter 95 Letter 96
Journeyman/Woman Ea sty Training CommitteepersonS
New Employee Health ar d Safety Training
Periodic Safety Talks
CPR and First Aid Tralnir g
Protective Clothing
Safety Glasses
Hands out of Point of Op nation Working alone Lockout/Tagout Program New or Relocated Equipment Ergonomics
97
Letter97 Letter98 Letter99 Letter 101 Letter 104 Letter 105 Letter 106 Letter 107 Letter 109 Letter 110 Letterm
Letter 113 Letterl 14
Heat
Heat Stress Indtex Medical Surveill ince Programs Confidential Me iical Information Noise Abateme it Program Chemical lnfom|iation Chemical Data Breathing Zone
Preventive Mair tenance
Health & Safety Contact Proceci for Work Refus »l Official Safety C omplalnt Form Minute of Silenipe
Jnk CCOHS Sample Results
Use of Camera
ure of Health & Safety Representative
Yours truly,
K. J. Bovaird
Human Resources Manager
Letter #23
Mr. R. Pellerin
National RepresentativeC.A.W. 205 Placer Court VMIIowdale, Ontario
Warehouse (City of Stratford)
DearMr. Pellerin:
The Company agreed during the 19B3 negongrionsthat should stock or production materialbelocatedand usedina regularwarehoi and/or productionfadlity inthe City of Stratfordthat the said work will be performed the bargaining unit members.
Y< ■ truly,
K. Bovaird
H' an Resources Manager
99
Letter#24
Mr. R. Pellerin
NationalRepresentativeC.A.W. 205 Placer Court Willowdale, Ontario
Contracting- MaintenanceWork
DearMr. Pellerin:
Duringthe 1983 negotiationsthe Ci is required the Company will not contrac permitsand employees have the necessai
pany agreedthat when maintenancework vork in or out of the plant providing time ability to perform the required work.
Shouldwork be contractedin or out ther than current accepted practice)the lm Plant Committeewill be notified.
Yours truly,
K, J. Bovaird
Human Resources Manager
Letter#25
Mr. R, Pellerin
National RepresentativeC.A.W 205 Placer Court Willowdale, Ontario
Vacation Scheduling
DearMr. Pellerin:
Dunng negotiations considerable discussions took place between the Union and the Company over the many problems resulting from learly vacation scheduling. In order to maximize the use of vacation time during periods more advantageous to employees it is the Company's intentionto schedule vacation shutdown periods after July 1 st of any vacation year.
Should assembly plant requirements i way cause a deviation from this schedule,the NationalC.A.W. and the Local l ill be so advised by the preceding April 1st along with reasons therefore.
This assurance should work towards accommodating employees in the preplanning of their vacation schedulesduring prime l________
Your| truly,
K. J. Bovaird
Huml'i Resources Manager
101
Letter#26
Mr. R. Pellerin
NationalRepresentativeC.A.W. 205 PlacerCourt Willowdale, Ontario
Sexual Harassment
DearMr. Pellerin:
During our recent negotiations, b agreedthat there is no place in the work e
Management and Union representatives onment for sexual harassmentin any form.
It was further agreed by both partis lat the offended party must make it known to the harasser, that the harasser's actions fcre not wanted and must cease immediately.
Should there be further harassmenf|a complaint may be raised with the Union and/or Company.
Followingsuch a complaint, ameeti will be heldatthe earliest possibletime with the Personnel Manager, PlantChairperso ctim and harasserto bringthe problemto an immediate resolution.
Yours truly,
K. J, Bovalrd
Human Resources Manager
Letter #27
Mr. R. Pellerin
National RepresentativeC.A.W. Court Ontario
New Hire introduction
DearMr. Pellerin:
During our recentdiscussionthemanagemeini agreedthatany newhirewould be allotted a period of time not to exceed 15 minute: | rthe purposed introductionto the Chairpersonor his designate.
The introduction is to take place on the employee's first day of employment at a location mutuallyagreeableto both Unionand M ligement, at the start of their shift.
Yc truly.
K. Bovaird
Hi in Resources Manager
103
Letter #28
Mr. R, Pellerin
National RepresentativeC.A.W. 205 PlacerCourt Willowdale, Ontario
2? Funding- Child Care
Dear Mr. Pellerin:
Duringthe 1983 Collective Bargainin length the need/oradequate child care fat
The Company advisedthe Uniontha such services, its limited financial resource such programmes. However,the Comps approaching the appropriate governmental established in Stratfordand to co-operate ft. as conditions precedent to the establishma
egotiations, the Union discussed at great ;s in Stratfordfor children of employees.
hile it recognizedthe employee's need for id not permit it to provide full funding for agreed to participate with the Union in dies to requestthat child care facilities be n any studies required by the government of such programme.
If in the future, a child care prog ime is established in Stratford, through governmentfunding or otherwise, and the U(tiion electsto participated such programme
the Company will, upon requestof the Natio hour, effective Decemberl6, 1984, to beu Fabricated Products employees inthat pro; child care programme,the $0.02 percompe mutually agree.
Union, contribute $0.02 per compensated I toward funding of servicesfor Canadian nme. If it is decided not to implementthe tied hour will be utilizedas the parties may
Yours truly,
K. J. Bovaird
Human Resources Manager
Letter#29
Mr. R. Pellerin
NationalRepresentativeC.A.W. 205 Placer Court Willowdale. Ontario
Environmental Committee
Dear Mr. Pellerin:
The Company agrees to establish a Joint fcrfl/ir'onmental Committee consisting of two (2) hourly employees and two (2) salaried employees. The parties agreed that environmental issues and statistics pertaining to Cfirysler Canada Ltd. are to be held confidential it so requested.
The Committeeshallmeetthree (3) times am place to review and discuss issues involving the Conservation which pertainto Canadian Fabricated
iilly at mutually agreeable times and tnvironment, recycling and energy Products employees.
Your) truly,
K. J. bovaird
Hum|n Resources Manager
105
Letter #30
Mr. R. Pellerin
National Representative C.A.W 205 PlacerCourt Willowdale, Ontario
Safety Shoe Allowance
Dear Mr. Pellerin:
During our recentnegotiationsit was shoe allowance, for all Skilled Trades, M employees, of $65.00 per year toward the |
greed that the Company will provide a safety iterial Handling and General Maintenance urchase price.
Where unusual wear and tear, but not abuse, requires an additional pair, an additional$65.00 authorizationwill be avail; ole.
If any of the above eligible employe| s purchase safety shoes, the safety shoes must be worn.
fours truly,
<, J. Bovaird
Human ResourcesManager
Letter#31
Mr. R. Pellerin
NationalRepresentativeC.A.W, 205 PlacerCourt Willowdale, Ontario
Overtime RecordingProcedures
DearMr. Pellerin:
During recent negotiationstheparties agreeq onthe following procedureto record overtime hours, as soon as programmingchangesjallow.
1.	O.T. Recording • NewHlres/Recall| From Lavott
the highest hours in
the classification (by shift) of the depqrtment/sectian.
2.	2/L Recording.- P_ermane_nt Placements
Upon entering a department/section/classification on a permanent
basis, an employee will be
classification (by shift) cf the departm§nt/section.
3.	O.T. Recording - Temporary Transrers
a) If an employee is on a temporal {transferof ten (10) working
days or less, any overtime he
employee’scriginaldepartment
will be recorded in the
b) An employee temporarily transferred to another department/section (for ten (10) working days or less)who is not required to work on a v eekend for the temporary department, will be ottered overtime in his original department/section should the fotal department be required to work.
107
C) If an employee is on a (10) working days the ei in the classification of th^ employee returning to temporary transfer (of be allocated the highes the original department,
temporary transfer of greater than ten rpployeewill assume the highest hours temporary department/section. An s former department/section after a ore than ten (10) working days) will i hours in the classification (by shift) of section.
d) Surplus/Recalled Employees
for ten (10) working days or recorded in the employees
original department.
When an employee is working days the emplo in the classification (by,Ihift)
surplused for more than ten (10) ee willbeallocatedthe highesthours of the newdepartment/section.
Yours truly,
K. J. Bovaird
Human Resources Manager
Letter #32
Mr. R. Pellerin
NationalRepresentativeCAW. 205 Placer Court Willowdale, Ontario
Ergonomics
Dear Mr. Pellerin:
During the 1988 Negotiations there was[ considerable discussion regarding Ergonomics
The Company agreesto meet ' for the purpose of selectingtwo (2) members fror company representativesreviewthe :
The Chairpersonmay attendthese meeting|| it his/her discretion
?eduring the term of the agreement Ihe committee who will jointly with s of Ergonomicsint he work place.
K. J.l lovaird
Resources Manager
109
Letter #3:
Mr. R. Pellerin
National RepresentativeC.A.W. 205 PlacerCourt Willowdale, Ontario
COLA Table
Dear Mr. Pellerin:
This will confirm the parties' unoersranoing rnat because the future three month average Consumer Price Index is unknown at this time due to the early signing of the 1992 agreement, COLA adjustments durin > the term tf the 1992 agreement will be calculated in a manner consistent with the table in Article 31, Section 5 cf the 1989 agreement.
Yours truly,
K. J. Bovaird
Human Resources Manager
Letter #34
Mr. R. Pellerin
NationalRepresentativeC.A.W. 205 Placer Court Willowdale, Ontario
Job Assignment Practices
DearMr. Pellerin:
Duringthe1989 negotiationstheUnionandC|cmpany hadconsiderablediscussion pertaining to job assignment practices.
The pattiesacknowledgedthe competitive! flexibilityto fully utilize the skills and experience c( i j levels of productquality and the efficiency of its op that under normal circumstances this desired r employees performing a regular assignment.
of Managementhaving the omployeesto maintain the highest and to that end acknowledge lit is best achieved by qualified
and right, becauseof absenteeism manpower within classification to efficiency. Should employees be the shift will be assignedfrom one has the necessary ability to
immediately performthe function.
The Company assured the Union that it doe assignmentof employees for retaliatory reasons, out or for purposes of harassment. The Company will re
not condone nor will it permit the of favouritism, as a punitive measure iffirm its position during supervisory
training sessions to be held after ratification of the Agreement.
Your$ truly,
K. J. feovaird
Humar Resources Manager
111
Letter U35
Mr. R. Pellerin
National RepresentativeC.A.W. 205 Placer Court Willowdale, Ontario
Union Dues Deductions For Retirees
DearMr. Pellerin:
During recent negotiationsthe Company agreed to deduct monthly Union dues from Retirees authorized by the constitutior the Union. Uniondues deductionswill be identifiedon RetireesT4 slips.
Very truly yours,
KennethJ. Bovaird Human Resources Manager
Letter#36
Mr. R, Pellerin
National RepresentativeC.A.W, 205 PlacerCourt Willowdale, Ontario
Wage Rate- Paoker/Operator, Fales Leader, Fates Set-up Leader
Dear Mr, Pellerin:
During the 1986 negotiationsthere. — . isiderable discussion regarding the classifications • Packer/Operator, Fales Leader, 1 Fales Set-Up Leader.
new hiresand employees placedinto sader will be paid inaccordancewith nt employeesunlesssuch employee
It is further understood effectivethe first S presently classified as Packer/Operator will be change not to affect current employees unles classification.
V( truly yours,
day following ratificationemployees -classified as Assemblers but rate such employees post to another
Effectivethefirst Sunday followingratificBtio the classificationof Fales Leaderand Fales Set-Up Article30,2 and3Q,5. Ratechangenotto affectcu posts to another classification.
Ke eth J. Bovaird
an Resources Manager
113
Letter #37
Mr. R. Retain
National RepresentativeC.A.W, 205 PlacerCourt Willowdale. Ontario
Qualificationsand Testing For Vacancies
Dear Mr, Peilerin:
During the 1989 negotiationsthere j considerable discussion regarding the qualifications and testing for vacancies ir	e plant. It was agreed that the Plant
Committee will be permitted to review alltes	isults. It was further agreed that tests will
be relevant to the classification in question.
Yours truly,
K. J. Bovalrd
Human ResourcesManager
11
Letter #38
Mr. R. Pellerin
National RepresentativeC.A.W, 205 Placer Court Ontario
Pneumalfc Attachments to Sewing Machines
DearMr. Pellerin:
Duringthe 1989 Negotiationsit was	pneumaticattachmentsfo sewing
machines will be installed by Millwrights	maintained by Sewing Machine
Repair.
It was further agreedthat the Skilled Trades Department will continuethe practice of changing the brushes on the power scrubber.
YoursJ truly
K. J. Bovaird
Human Resources Manager
115
Letter#39
Mr. R. Pellerin
National Representative C. A. W 205 PlacerCourt Willowdale, Ontario
Leader- Exercise Seniority
Dear Mr. Pellerin:
Duringthe 1989 negotiationsitwas reedthat the Companywill continue the past practice in which the classification of Le3oer will not be permittedto exercise seniority from one departmentto anotherdepartrr under Articles 13 and 14.
Yours truly,
K, J. Bovaird
Human Resources Manager
6
Lettered
Mr. R, Pellerin
National RepresentativeC.A-W.  rio
Shift Changes for PersonalReasons
Dear Mr. Pellerin:
During the 1989 Negotiations considerate aiscussion was held regarding employee requestsfo change shifts for personal reasons.
The Company agreesto consider requests tolchange shifts providing the request is madeto the Personnel Department and that minimal disruption of production will occur.
Yourfruly,
K. J. Bovaird
Human Resources Manager
B;
T
117
Letter#41
Mr. R, Pellerin
National Representatives.A.W. 205 Placercourt Willowdale. Ontario
Lift Truck Operation - Trades
Dear Mr. Pellerin:
Duringthe recent negotiationsdiscu^sion took place, betweenthe Companyand the Union, regarding the operation of Lift :ks by Skilled Trades,
It was agreed that, within trades wc a qualifiedtradesperson would operate lift trucks for the purpose of elevating the le trade during both normal hours and overtime. Should no employee from the trpcie be available, an employee from Material Handling will operate the lift truck.
Yours truly,
K, J. Bovaird
Human Resources Manager
Letter #4 2
Mr. R. Pellerin
National RepresentativeC.A.W. 205 PlacerCourt
Willowdale. Ontario
nan| tntrance/Exit and Plant Exit Doors
DearMr, Pellerin:
Duringthe 1992 Negotiationsit was agreedlthat employees will continue to be permitted to use the top/bottom doors of the) |main shipping dock ramp as an Entrance/Exit.
In addition louvred screens will be placed nuna emergency Exitdoors and the doors will remainclosed.
Yourf truly,
K. J.jBovaird
Human Resources Manager
119
Letter#43
Mr. P. Pellerin
National RepresentativeC.A.W, 205 PlacerCourt Willowdale. Ontario
Lockers
Dear Mr. Pellerin:
During the 1989 Negotiations thi Company agreed to provide lockers for employeesinSkilledTrades, GeneralMain ance, MaterialHandlingandCentralStores and for the Quality Control Inspectors.
Yours truly,
K. J. Bovaird
Human Resources Manager
Letter #44
Mr. R. Pellerin
National RepresentativeC.A.W. 205 Placer Court Ontario
Reinstated Grievances
Dear Mr. Pellerin;
Duringthe 1989 negotiations, the partiesacknbwiedged the desirability of ensuring prompt, fair and final resolution of employee grievanc ;s The parties also recognizedthat the maintenanceof a stable, effective and dependab to implement the foregoing principle to which they parties view any attempt to reinstate a grievance pro oerly disposed of as contrary to the purpose for which the grievance procedure was established and violative of the fundamental principles of collective bargaining.
e grievance procedure is necessary both subscribe. Accordingly, the
However, in those instances where the National Union (CAW-Canada), by either its (i) Executive Board, (ii) Public Review Board or (iii j Constitutional Convention Appeals Committee has reviewedthe disposition of a grievar ce and found that such disposition was improperly effected by the Union or a Union r< presentative involved, the National Union may inform the Manager Staff Labour Relatio is in writing that such grievance is reinstated in the grievance procedure at the step at f/hich the original disposition of the grievance occurred.
It is agreed, however, that the Corporation damages, Including back pay claims, arising out of th< barred under the provisions of the aforementiom reinstatement of the grievance or (ii) that relate to original disposition and the time of the reinstatemer agreed that the reinstatement of any such grievance agreement of the Union and the employee or emplo'
not be liable for any claims for grievance that either (i) are already |d Agreement at the time of the ie period between the time of the t as provided herein. It is further hall be conditioned upon the prior es involved that none of them will
121
thereafter pursue such claims for damages against the Corporation in the grievance procedure, or in any court or before any Federal, provincial, or municipal agency.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, a d$i Appeal Board or any other arbitrator on binding on the Union and its members, thfe Corporation and such grievance shall not 11
cision of the Impartial Chairperson of the ny grievance shall continue to be final and employee or employees involved and the e subject to reinstatement.
This letter is not to be construed a i modifying in any way either the rights or obligations of the parties under the terms of the aforementioned Agreement except as specifically limited herein, and does not affec t sections thereof that cancel financial liability or limit the payment or retroactivity of any cl aim, including claims for back wages, or that provide for the final and binding nature of any Appeal Board decisions or other grievance resolutions.
Corporation's obligations to by either party upon thirty (30)
days notice in writing to the other.
Yours truly,
K, J. Bovaird
Human Resources Manager
1$2
Letter #4 5
Mr. R. Pellerin
National Representative C, A, W. 205 Placer Court Willowdale. Ontario
Redundant Departments
DearMr. Pellerin:
Should the level of manpower decrease 10 a significant level to cause a redundancy situation, the Company will advise the u|ion as to the departmentsdeclared redundant; applicable employees will assume new qppartmental seniority.
Your} truly.
K. J. Bovalrd
Resources Manager
123
Letter#46
Mr, R. Pellerin
NationalRepresentativeC.A.W, 205 Placer Court Willowdale, Ontario
New Hire Sewer
DearMr. Pellerin;
Any new hire sewer, who posts out months following date of attainmentcf sent Training Programfor reconsiderationas a
rf the Sewer Classificationwithin the nine (9) ity will berequiredto completethefull Sewer lewer.
Yours truly,
K. J. Bovaird
Human Resources Manager
Letter #47
Mr. R. Pellerin
National Representative C, A. W. 205 Placer Court Willowdale. Ontario
Wage Progression/COLA Fold-In
DearMr. Pellerin:
Agreement, it was agreed that employees hired pr or to the effective date cf the new Agreement who are governed by the provisionsof A tide 30 shall have the calculation of their base rate determinedon the basis of 85%, 90% or 95%, as the case may be, of the maximum base rate under the 1992 Agreement, exempt that the cost-of-living allowance fold-in effective the beginning of the pay period comn endng on or after the effective date
of the Agreement will not be subject to the reductior
may be, but shall be transferred to base ratewithoifl reduction.
to 85%, 90%, or 95%, as the case
Yourf truly,
K. J. Bovaird
Hum|n Resources Manager
125
Letter#48
Mr, R. Pellerin
National RepresentativeC.A.W. 205 PlacerCourt Willowdale, Ontario
Dear Mr,
The Company offers and adminis employeeswill, under such terms and con establish, receive a tuition refund not to e calendar year for approved courses taken an approved job-related course at an appi non-working hours while on the active rc eligibleemployeewill relateto the calendar
Tuition Refund
a tuition refund program under which as the Company may from time to time a calendar year ($1,500 for the an accredited college) upon completion of educationalor training institution during of the Company. Any refund made to an ^ear of completion of the approved course or
Pellerin:
The following programsare considered job relatedandwill be approved when the needs cannot be met within the Company
the
a. — Courses which will improve present job. This includes courses technology of their trade or occupat on
employee’s skill on the employee's designed to update employees in the
b. - Courseswhich relateto the hext job inthe logical development of an employee's career.
c, — Courseswhich prepareane| to occur in the future and for w
^loyee for openingsthat areexpected fch a sufficient number of qualified
employees are not available.
continued, .
d. - Coursestaken to completetherequK’ements for a grammar school certificate or high school diploma.
a — Any literacy courses or courses mathematics. These indudecoursesusualf competency in reading, writing and numeric
n rundamental reading and M designed to teach sixth grade ic 0 skills.
f.	— Courses that are part tf the regulafl curriculum of an accredited educational institution taken for degree cr idit leading to an Associate Degree or Bachelor’s Degree in Labour Stuc ies.
g.	— Courses in industrial hygiene or sa ety related courses taken at approved educational institutions by the appointed Union members of the Local Committee on Healthand Safety.
h.	— Anyrequiredorpertinentelectivecour program in a field related to the employee employee’s career in Canadian Fabricated P
j£es taken in a degree-seeking s job or appropriate to the oducts.
127
K. J.IBovaird
Resources Manager
Letter# 49
Mr. R. Pellerin
National RepresentativeC.A.W. 205 PlacerCourt Willowdale, Ontario
Classification Deletions
Dear Mr. Pellerin:
Thefollowing classificationswill be dieted on the effective date ofthe Agreement:
—	Inspector Packer
—	Sewing Machine Repair- Learn
—	Shipping and Receiving
It is understood that employees currently classified as Shipping and Receivingwill be reclassified as Leader, and will have n> irisdiction over the Truck/Transport Driver Classification.
It is also understood that the Inspe r Packer classificationwill remain in effect untilthe Doorline/Dlelectric Departmentst :me redundant.
Yours truly,
K. J. Bovaird
Human Resources Manager
128
Letter #S0
Mr. R. Pellerin
National RepresentativeC.A.W. 205 PlacerCourt VWIIowdale, Ontario
Self DirectedWorkforce
DearMr. Pellerin:
In order to continually remain competitive jt is agreed that both Union and Managementwill continue to seek new and innovative approaches to manufacturing.
It is recognizedthat these approaches will cu IVl uut not necessarily be restricted to such items as, product redesign,
Awarenessand employee involvementwith the target t directed workforce, makingfull use of all the talents
being a totally participativeand self available to the company.
It is agreed that all steps taken in this directionkvill only be taken after consultation with the Union Committee and by mutual agreement!
Yours|truly,
K. J. fbvaird
Resources Manager

J.
-cSC_
/
f
r' r