AGREEMENT
between
CANADIAN FABRICATE^ PRODUCTS
and the
National Automobile Transportation and Ger Union of Can (CAW-CanaLi)
Aerospace,
Jral Workers aa,
Local I32.i
December 16, 995
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ARTICLE	PAGE
PURPOSE	.....
RECOGNITION
NONDISCRIMINATION	.. .
UNI ON SECURITY AND CHECK-OFF	.	. •
RESERVATIONSTO MANAGEMENT	.	• •	•
UNION REPRESENTATION	..	.	.
UNION REPRESENTATION. OVERTIME	....
GRIEVANCEPROCEDURE	. . .
DISCI PLINARYACTION	.....
Warning Notice	..	.
Dischargeand Suspension	....
Suspension	...	.
Discharge	....
NOSTRIKESOR LOCKOUTS	...	.
SENIORITY	•	•	•
ProbationaryEmployees	. ..
Loss d Seniority	...	.
Seniority List	....
JOB POSTING	.....
PermanentVacancy	.....
Non-Eligibility	....
GeneralVacancies	.	. .
Day/Midnight Shift Vacancies	....
Disqualifications	..	.	.
TemporaryJob Posting	.	.	.
Temporary Transfers
Transfer Procedure Within Seciion/Department Departments LAYOFFS
Surplus Layoff RECALLS
ANNUAL INVENTORY- CYCLE CHECK INVENTORY
1
2
3
4
5
e
7
a
9
9.1
9 2-9 3 9.4
9 5-9 7
10 11
11	2-11 4
11	5 116
12
12	1 12 2
123-126 12 7
128-12 13 12 14
12	15(a)
12.15(b)-12.18
1219
13
13	7-13.10
14
15
1
1
1
2
3
4-7
7-	8
8-	11 11-13 11-12
12
12
13
13
14
14
14-	15
15 15
15
15-	16
16 17
17-20
20
20
20-22
23
23
26
26-27
27
l
ARTICLE
PAGE
DISABILITY PLACEMENT
FORMATION/OISCONTINUANCE of a MULTI-SHIFT General Provisions Article
SEWER TRAINING PROGRAMME SALARIED RETURN TO THE BARGAINING UNIT PRODUCTION STANDARDS HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME Normal Workweek and Shifts Change in Starting Time Overtime Reporting Pay Stand-by Allowance Call back Allowance Multi-Shift Program
Specialized Training Movement/Rotefion PAID HOLIDAYS VACATION PAY LEAVE OF ABSENCE General Personal Sick Leave Pregnancy Leave Adoption Leave Bereavement Pay Union Office Leave
Conviction — Arising Out of the Operation of a Mol hide Jury Duty Leave
Leave for Elected or Appointed Office	.
HEALTHANDSAFETY Safety Shoe Allowance Minute of Silence Ergonomics
Prescription Safety Eye Wear Program
16
17
171
172
18
19
20 21
21 1-21 4 21 5
21 6-21 10 21 11 21 12
21 16-21 15 21 16 21 17 22
23
24
24 1-24 3 24 4 24 5 24 6(a)
24 6(b)
24 7 24 8 24 9 24 10
24	11
25
25	6 25 7 25 a 25 9
2$
28
28
20-29
29-31
31
31-33
33
33-34
34
35-39
39
39
39
40 40
40-43
44-47
47
47-48
48
48
49
49
49-50
50
51 51
51
52
53 53 53 53
11
ARTICLE
PAGE
Coveralls/Smooks	•	•
Safety Talks	■	.	•
Notification on New Equipment	.	.
First Aid and C P R Training	.
Safety Procedures	•
Worker's Right to Refuse Unsafe Work	.	.
REST PERIOD
Rest Period when Overtime is more than one hour . . BULLETIN BOARDS	.
WAGES
Scale of Wages Probationary Starting Rates	.	.	.
Pay on Thursday	•	•
Night Premium	•	•
Schedule "A" Classifications	.	.	•
Overpayment of Wages	.	•
COST-OF-LIVING ALLOWANCE	.	.
ENTRY OF PLANT PREMISES
INTERPRETATION CLAUSE	■
SKILLED TRADES	.
SkilledTrades Tools
Pneumatic Attachments to Sewing Machines	•	•
Apprenticeship Programme	.	.
SkilledTrades Council Dues	-	•
AUTOMATIC SHORT WEEK BENEFIT PLAN INJURY AT WORK	■
GENERAL ARTICLE DURATION
GROUP INSURANCE AND GROUP HEALTH CAREBf	:fTS
GENERAL PROVISIONS AND ADMINISTRATION
25 10 25 11 25 12 25 13 2514
25	15 26
26	2
27
28 28 2 28 3 28 4
28	5 28 6
29
30
31
32 1-32 26 32 27 32 28 32 29 32 30
33
34
35
36
37
53
54 54 54 54
55-56
56
56
56
56
57 59 59
59
60
61-62
62
62
62-72
73
73
73
74
74-75
75
76
76
77
ill
SUBJECT
LETTERS
LETTER
NO	PAGE
2t Fundingfor Education Purposes ••••*■
Job Movement............................
Holiday Pay — Temporary Layoff..........
Transport Driver {'A) Flour Paid Lunch..
Substance Abuse . . , . ................
Swipe Badge ............................
S&A andWCB Return to Work Program ., , Pay Shortage Greater Than Four (4) Hours
I n Plant Lighting and Fans.............
Distribution of Literature.................
Warehouse (City of Stratford) ..........
Contracting— MaintenanceWork............
Vacation Scheduling....................... .
Harassment............................... •
New Hire Introduction 2t Funding— Child Care Environ mentalCommittee Job Assignment Practices
Union Dues Deductionsfor Retiress.......
Qualifications and Testing for Vacancies . . .
Leader— Exercise Seniority .............
Shift Changesfor Personal Reasons.......
Lift Truck Operation — Trades...........
PiantEntrance/Exit & Plant Exit Doors • • • .
ReinstatedGrievances....................
Redundant Departments ..................
Tuition Refund........	. .
Self Directed Workforce.................
Dispute Resolution .....................
Contracting Out of Lift Truck Maintenance.. Saying Machine Connect / Disconnect . . . .
Compressor Start-up.................... • • •
Cleaning Work Area .....................
Measurements for Statistical Puproses , ..
i
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10 11 12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20 21 22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
78
79
80 81 82 83
84-85
86
87
88
89
90
91
92
93
94
95
93-97
98
99
100 101 102 103
104-105
106
107-108
109
110 111 112
113
114 116
ARTICLE1
PURPOSE
1.1	The general purpose of this AgreSjpent is to establish mutually satisfactory relations between the Company and its Employees, and to provide machinery for the prompt and equitable disposition of grievances afd to establish and maintain satisfactory working conditions, hours and wages for all employees who are subject to the provisions of this Agreement
ARTICLE 2
RECOGNITION
2.1	The Company recognizes the Ulhian as the sole collective bargaining agency of all employees at its Stratford plant, rave and except for: foreman, persons above the rank of foreman, technical personnr I and all office and sales staff. Those employees excluded from this agreement, as s e :-out above will not perform any work other than of a supervisory capacity except in the cases of proven emergency, or for the purpose of instructing employees and for exper mental purposes. When work of an experimental nature is required or in the cases of proven emergency, the Foreman, in the absence of an operator, will notify the are i Committee Member in writing prior to
performing such experimental work or work in
he cases of proven emergency.
ARTICLE 3 — NONDISCRIMINATION
3.1	There shall be no discrimination,
on behalf of the Company regarding any employ ee because of membership in the Union.
The Union, its members and/or agents shall
mierrerence, restraint or coercion by or
not intimidate or coerce or attempt to
intimidate any employee of the Company, and Shall not, on Company time or premises, conduct Union activities except as herein exprjpssly provided.
3,2	The Company and Union agree tcj ooserve the applicable provisions of the Ontario Human Rights Code
ARTICLE 4 — UMON SECURITY AND CHECK-OFF
*
4.1 All present seniority employee , remain members of the Union, as a condition jf employment which membership for th purpose of this Agreement shall be confined to the payment of initiation fees and due!
4.2 Present probationary employe^ completion of the probationary period shall be as a condition of employment. Membership fo confined to the payment cf the initiation fee ai applied to all employees. Probationary employ weekly dues in conformity with the Constituti
t id
%
4.3	The Company will deduct from th
and the weekly dues authorized by the Cons i1
4.4 All sums deducted as above, to
pay deductions have been made and the amounts of such deductions, together with / list of employees whose employment isterminr ed, transferred out of the bargaining unit or any employee where nodeduction hasbeei ma> e shall be remitted by the Company to the Financial Secretary of the Local Union blr the 15th of the month following the end of the month in which the deductions were mad a. The Company will include Total Unior Dues on the T-4 slips as authorized by the Ur ion.
who are members of the Union she
s and newly hired employees, upo i^ome and remain members of the Unior r the purpose of this Agreement shall b regular weekly dues which are equall ees as a condition of employment will pa sn of the Union.
e pay of each employee, the initiation fei itution of the Union
ether with a record of those from whosi
4.5 Deductions shall be made from hours or receive ten (10) hours pay in lieu of w dues owing. The Union shall hold the Compa deductions made in accordance with the Agre^,
ill hourly employees who work ten (10; ark in any one week or have outstanding fully indemnified in respect of all sucf ment.
iy
2
ARTICLE 5 — RESERVATIONS TO MANAGEMENT
5.1	The Union acknowledges that it is he exclusive function of the Company to hire, promote, demote, transfer, layoff, disciplin 3, suspend or discharge any employee for just cause, provided a claim by an employee, vho has been employed for more than eighty (80) calendar days, that he has been c scharged, disciplined or suspended without just cause may be the subject of a gr evance and dealt with as hereinaftei provided.
5.2	The Union further recognizes the 'ight of the Company to operate anc manage its business in all respects in accordance with its commitments anc responsibilities. The location of the plants, t|e products to be manufactured, the schedules of production, the methods, processesjand means of manufacturing are solely and exclusively the responsibility of the Company. The Company also has the right tc make, alter and enforce, from time to time, rulesland regulations, to be observed by the omimiost hut u/hirh rules and reaulations shal| not be inconsistent with the provisions of this Agreement.
Any new or revised rules or regulations to |>e explained in detail to the Union Plan Committee prior to implementation.
5.3	Nothing in this Agreement shall ba deemed to restrict the management ir any wav in the performance of all functions offmanagement except those specifically abridged or modified by this Agreement
5.4	The Company agrees that itwill nc 1 purpose of restricting or limiting the rights of * ahnuo functions will be exercised in a marl!1
exercise its management rights for thi S employees herein granted, and thi er consistent with the terms of thi
Agreement
3
ARTICLE 6 — UNION REPRESENTATION]
6.1	The Company recognizes a selected by the Union consisting of five (5) Skilled Trades, a Chairperson and the local recognized by the Company as the Grievan ^T^Union/Company. negotiating meetings, the Cc —■—up to eight (B) hours per day (Monday thmi ' Member will represent a specific geographic Union. The Plant Chairperson, at his discre ii week on Union business at his regular hourly
(fommittee of eight (8) to be elected o Committee Members - one (1) from th< Jnion President. The Committee shall b< ;e and Negotiating Committee. When a mmittee w ill be paid their regular earning: >ugh I riday inclusive). Each Committee area in I he plant as designated by the ion, will be permitted forty (40) hours pei earnings.
It is agreed that, as of May 1, ‘ 998 if the hourly onroll is greater than o equal to 945, the Company will recognize a Committee of eight (8) elected or selectee by the Union, consisting of five (5) Committee Members, one from Skilled Trades, t Chairperson and the Union President.
However, if the hourly onroll is le will recognize a Committee of six (6) eli three (3) Committee Members one from Union President. 1 is understood that on
s than 945 on May 1, 1998 the Company or selected by the Union, consisting o lied Trades, a Chairperson and the loca imber 15, 1995 the hourly onroll was 945
The Company further agrees to cabinet, computer with printer and enclosed
In addition to the present union separate enclosed office for the Preside Health and Safety Committee with a telephone An extension telephone with additional exten n distance charges to that extension will be Daic
provide the Union with a desk, chair, filing office.
cjffice facility, the Company will provide e a separate enclosed office for the Unior , e«sk, chair and a filing cabinet in each, ior button will be installed and all long for bv the Union.
4
6.2	The Union will supply the Companylwilh an up-to-date list of all Committee Members and Union representatives and the Cc
of Supervisory staff. The Company will notifj the Union if a Supervisor is to be transferred, for a period of one month or more.
6.3 Notwithstanding his seniority status, the Plant Chairperson of the Committee shall be required to work only on seniority for the duration of his term of office. T tenure in office will return to his former departm the time of his election or selection, seniority permitting
le day shift and shall have top plant re Chairperson upon completion of his nt, and classification which he held at
6.4	The Union Committee Members s lall not be required to work on a shift other than the day shift and shall have top plantt ride seniority during their term of office. The Union shall have the right to appoint matchin j alternate Committee Members for any second shift activities where the second shift pit nt population exceeds 300 employees. Should the second shift population drop below f 30 employees, the number of alternate Committee Members shall not exceed (2).
appointed for any third shift. The Company fu; iher agrees it will meet with the Union Committee should the employment level on t is third shift increase significantly, to discuss additional alternate Committee Persons on that shift.
6.5	It is understood and agreed that Committee Members as well as other employees have regular duties to perform. Co nmittee Members, with the approval of the Foreman of the department where they] are respectively employed, shall be permitted, during their normal working hours, without loss of earnings, to leave their regular duties for a reasonable length of time ten adjust and present grievances in their geographic area. It is further understood that during overtime, Committee Members will be provided a reasonable amount of time to adjust and present grievances which occurred during that overtime period. Upon enti ring another department the Committee Member shall notify the Supervisor concerned. Access by Committee Members during hours other than reoular first shift hours must bp restricted to a reasonable time period and wi/l be allowed
5
only when the Personnel Department Represejni been properly notified as to the purpose and such access is on Union time not paid by the
itative or Night Plant Superintendent have presence by the Committee Person. Any Company.
6.6	Committee Members shall not b which they have jurisdiction in the plant so available work in the said area, except in case basis so long as such emergency exists. In shall be continued at work as long as work in available, regardless of their seniority, provide i normal requirements of the job in the normal
6.7	The Company will meet with the arising during the time this agreement is in ef co-operate in the administration of this Agree
transferred out of the geographic area in long as they are willing to perform the of emergency, and then on a temporary tie event of a layoff, Committee Members their respective areas and jurisdictions is d they are able and willing to perform the time, with proper job instruction.
Plant Committee on all matters properly ect and the Company and Committee will nent
The Union will have the right to have National Representatives and the President of the Union present at all meetings of the P ant Committee and Management. Such meetings shall be held at the request of eithr r party providing an agenda is prepared and submitted at least 48 hours before the meeting except in an emergency. The Company agrees to provide a written responsd to the Union Committee within 5 working days.
6.8	A Committee Memberwho is ad hourly rated employee shall be paid his regular earnings.
6.9	Local Executive Officers
The Company agrees the President oftle Union will be on the day shift and paid at a rate of pay which is the regular rate of pay for the classification to which the President would be normally assigned.
During periods of production the Presifi assignments in his/her classification. The Pres:
/ Cycle Check Inventory on a weekend.
ent will not Oe expected to perform i lent will not be required during Annual
The President will conduct Local Union bi and perform the duties of Benefits Representat a his tenure in office will return to his former depa ti at the time of his election, seniority permitting.
In the absence of the President the Compja: the local Union to assume responsibility of the
ny shall recognize a Vice-President of 'resident.
6.10	The Company agrees that the Recc ri will be allowed a reasonable amount of time du#i as it pertains to the Collective Agreement.
ARTICLE 7
UNION REPRESENTATION -
7.1	When overtime is scheduled in Committee Person will be offered the opportunj' more employees are required, provided he is q done.
siness as it pertains to the Local Union e. The President upon completion of ment, and classification which he held
ding Secretary and Financial Secretary ng their shift to conduct local business
OVERTIME
geographical area of the plant, the y to work as part of the group, if 10 or lalified to perform one of the jobs to be
When the Company notifies the Union of scheduled overtime, the affected Committee Member(s) will be considered scheduled if thel aoorooriate number of employees are working in their area of jurisdiction.
7.2	If 10 or more employees are requi plant, rather than in any one specified geograp designate will be given the opportunity to atte employees, to a minimum of 5, are required on
ed on overtime for work throughout the lical area, the Plant Chairperson or his id to Union business. If less than 10 overtime for work throughout the plant,
b(
the Plant Chairperson or his designate will is qualified to perform one of the jobs to be is scheduled the President will perform the c
given the opportunity to work provided he c one. If the majority of the production shift uties of the function.
ARTICLE 8 — GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
8.1	Should any misunderstandingc and the Union as to the complianceof either or should there be any grievance invo employee, or a group of employees, or the following manner, provided, however, that no circumstances of which originated or occurri prior to its first presentation in accordance that this limit shall not apply where an allege: employee or the Union, as the case may be occurrence at the actual date of same, the occurred on the first date on which the em
controversy arise between the Company arty with any of its obligations hereunder, ving the terms of this Agreement by an Union, the same shall be handled in the grievance shall be considered, the alleged more than five (5) normal working days with the procedure set out herein, except d grievance is of such a nature that the could not have been aware of its alleged grievance shall then be deemed to have or the Union could have had such
ed
Step No. 1
It is the mutual desire of the Com )any and the Union that complaints of employees shall be adjusted as quickly a: possible, and it is understood that an employee has no grievance until he has first given the Salaried Employee involved an opportunity of adjusting his complaint. The employee, at his discretion may be accompanied by the Committeeperson/Alternate representing his area. The Complaint Form will be incorporated with the grievan(ce form provided by the Company and approved by the Union.
Complaints involving discipline for absentee related incidents will be presented to the Personnel Manager or his designate.
by the Salaried Person, within (2) two working days following presentation, shall basu mitted in writing on the grievance
Committeeperson and submitted
to the Salaried Person concerned.
A meeting between the Departmental Manager or his designate, the Salariei Person involved, the Committeeperson and Gri w r involved must be set up (unless mutually agreed upon for an extension) within 2 such grievance. Following such meeting the Dep normal working days to reply to the Union Comm*,“ left in the Union mail basket in Personnel.
normal working days to try to resolvi irtr ent Manager or designate has two Grievance answers will be
norcnn
Step No. 2
If the decision of the Departmental Mana; the Union Plant Chairperson or his designate ma; Manager or his designate within two working dayl Departmental Manager or his designate. the Committee, the Personnel Manager or his d| involved or his designate, must be set up within resolve such grievance; the Salaried Parson ii Representative may attend, The Plant M anager the 2nd Stage grievance meeting.
ier ur ms uesignate is not acceptable submit the grievance to the Personne of receipt of the reply in writing by the g between the President of the Union signate and the Department Manage hree (3) normal working days to try tc olved, the Grievor, and the Natlona r his designate at his option will attenc
Following such meeting the Company sh^ll give its written disposition within fou (4) normal working days of such meeting.
8.2	It is understood that the Manager n complaints with respect to the conduct of the Ur or employees of the Bargaining Unit, and that if settled to the mutual satisfaction of the parties referred to arbitration in the same way as the g
ent may bring forward in writing an^ on, its Officers or Committee Member such complaint by Management is no it may be treated as a grievance anc ievance of any employee.
8.3	It is understood that there interpretationand/or application of the tern of this nature occur a grievance in writing chairperson or his designate and submittr within 2 days of the disagreement.
A meeting between the President c Manageror his designate and the Departmi up within 3 normal working days to try Representative may attend at the Union designate at his option will attend the 2nd
Following such meeting the Compar (4) working days of such meeting.
ould be differences of opinion on the of this Agreement. Should any difference tt the 2nd Stage may be initiated by the to the Personnel Manager by the Union
the Union, the Committee. the Personnel [ Manager or designate involvedwill be set o resolve such grievance; the National discretion. The Plant Manager or his age grievance meeting.
shall give its written disposition within four
Step No, 3
8,4	After exhaustingthe grievance requests that a grievance be submitted to writing, within 20 working days after the gi addressed to the other party to this Agree arbitratorwho shall be chosen bythepartie: such written request. If the parties cannc period, either party may apply to the Mil arbitrator,and any arbitrator appointed by h jurisdiction herein. The decision of the AI Company and Union Under no circumstan the date when a grievance occurred.
ocedure herein provided, when either party bitration they shall make such request, in ranee has been dealt with in Step No. 2, ent. The arbitration shall be by a single y agreement within five working days after agree upon the Arbitrator within the said ter of Labour for Ontario to appoint an shall be accepted by the parties and have ;rator shall be final and binding upon the s shall retroactive pay be awarded beyond
The full Committee will be allowed t attend 3rd Stage Grievance meetings
8.5	The Arbitrator shall not be with the provisions of this Agreement, Agreement except that the Arbitrator grievance in any manner which he cons
8.6	Arbitration shall be heard _______________________________________________________
may be agreed upon by the patties.
8.7	Each of the parties hereto :___________________________________________________
J.
shares.
8.8	Grievances not appealed from the representatives in any of the steps of the grievi the manner specified herein shall beconsiderec of the disposition last made and shall not be tflii
written disposition of the Company's rice procedure within the times and in as having been adjusted on the basis iijible for further appeal.
8,9	Time limits as outlined inthis article! may be extended by mutual agreement at Union/Management level
ARTICLE 9 — DISCIPLINARY ACTION
9.1	Warning Notice
the employees and the Union within two (2) working days of the violation becoming known to the Company. Such notice shall become a part of the employee's personnel record. A warning notice will not
months from the date of such record after eighteen (18) tend all disciplinary interviews. In any is involved, the employee will be the presence of his
Committeeperson or his designate, prior to sucl# .'suspension or discharge taking
11
providing always that the employee is avail; ible for prior interview. The Committee
Person or his designate will be advised of the
circumstances surrounding the violation immediately prior to this interview, The
Personnel Department / designate will be res related disciplines.
employee involved, the violation, and the
tonsible, for the issuance of all absentee
Any employee employed for more than discharged or suspended shall have an inte Chairperson or designate in the Union Office eighty (80) calendar days, who has been dis shift shall have an interview with his alternate interview a discharged employee will leave the endanger the safety of the Employeeconcer nature that it would be inadvisable to retaih employee will be required to leave the premis;
eighty (80) calendar days, who has been view with his Committee Member, Plant Any employee employed for more than :harged or suspended on the 2nd or 3rd n the Union Office. On completion of this plant. Under circumstances which might ted or other employees, or be of such a the Employee in the plant then such es immediately.
9,3 At the request of the Union a tearing will be set up by the Company between the Personnel Manager or his designate and the Chairperson and Plant Committee Member concerned. Such meeting will be set up within one normal working day of the Union's request. Hearings to be helt on Company time, without additional cost penalty to the Company. The Employee, ard the Foreman may be present at such
hearing if deemed necessary by either party. within 24 hours of date of this meeting.
The Company will give a written answer
9.4	Suspension
sposition of the case at such hearing, a of the grievance procedure and such suspensions of more than one day shall
be on consecutive working days.
If the Union is not satisfied with the d grievance may then be filed at Step No. : grievance procedure shall therefore apply. A
9.5	Discharge
If the Union is not satisfied with the disposition of the case at such hearing, a grievance may then be filed at Step No. 2 offl the grievance procedure and such grievance procedure shall thereafter apply.
9,6	Failing to file a grievance with the Ccfnpany under 9 4 and 9 5 above within 5 working days from date of	the disciplined employee shall forfeit
any right under this section
9.7	The Company agrees that in the pvent an employee is late three (3) minutes, the three (3) minutes will not bedocumetted onthe employee's record cardfor the first such Occurrence in any one week.
ARTICLE i 0 — NO STRIKES OR LOCKOUT^
10.1	In view of the orderly procedure e settling of disputes and the handling of grievanc
.tablished by this Agreement for the s, the Union agrees that, during the
lifetime of this Agreement, there will be no strike; (as defined by the Labour Relations
Act) either complete or partial, and the Compani (as defined by the Labour RelationsAct).
agrees that there will be no lockouts
10.2	Inthe eventthe above occurs, theUlhionwill makeeverv effortto persuade employees from participating.
10.3	The Company agrees that inthe evfeiit of a legal strike with the C.A.W., it will not participate in any way in strike breaking.
13
ARTICLE 11 — SENIORITY
11.1	Fundamentally the rules herein employees an equitable measure of security the Company. Seniority, except as hereinafte'
respecting seniority are designed to give tjased on length of continuous service with provided, shall be on a plant wide basis,
11.2	Probationary Employees
An employee shall be temporary and orfi probation until he has acquired seniority.
The retention of a probationary employee sha
there shall be no responsibility for the re-emf loyment of a probationary employee who
is laid off or discharged beyond the confines
I be at the discretion of the Company and
of The Ontario Labour Relations Act.
<L
i o\
11.3 Upon the completion of 80 calendar days within any period of twelve (12)
consecutive months from date of hire, an empl
oyee shall be considered to have seniority
rights from his original date of hire and his lame placed on the seniority lists. This
provision shall not apply to an employee who
voluntarily resigns.
11.4	Employees’ names shall apperr on the seniority lists in order of their
for those names appearing on the same writing as any employee attains seniority
respective dates of hiring and alphabetically date. The Company shall notify the Union in i status, such notice to be given within oneweef. Once seniority is established under this section it will not be changed.
11.5	Loss of Seniority
Seniority rights shall cease for any on^ of the following reasons:
(a)	— Ifthe employee quits.
(b)	— If the employee is discharged and such discharge is not reversed through the grievance procedure.
(c)	— Ifthe employee is absent for 3 workinn davs without advisina the Company giving satisfactory reasons.
14
(d)	— If the employee fails to rei| n to work within 5 working days after
notification to his last known address on record satisfactory reasons for such failure.
(e)— The employee is absent due or a period equal to his seniority, as ofth i	of his continuous absence, whichever
is the greater.
vith the Company unless he furnishes
to lay-off, for a period of five (5) years
(f)	— The employee is absent ddu to Worker's Compensation claim or disability leave, (subject to reversal via the Gr ovance Procedure or Laws precluding such termination), for a period of five (5) years : r a period equal to his seniority, as of the date of his continuous absence, whichever s the greater	tP “7
~Tf
Any such employee having exhausted hlsUeniority under Article 11.5e and 11.5f will be given preferential consideration for re-hire
11.6	Seniority List
Seniority lists, master and dep^f mental, shall be maintained by the Company and shall be posted each three (3) rrtffliths with nine copies to the Bargaining Committee.
ARTICLE 12 — JOB POSTING
12.1	Permanent Vacancy
A permanent vacancy shall be deified as an open position created by: a need to increase the work force, the terminal on and/or permanent transfer of an employee from an existing position. Vacancieslvfill not be posted during the scheduled vacation period.
12.2 Non-Eligibility
Non-eligibility -An employee i	in a classification is noteligible to post
for (except as outlined in Article 12.3(b)). a jqp in the same classification within the
15
same department. Should a vacancy occur on a Day / Midnight shift, then employees on a Multi-Shift will have the opportunity to post for a job and vice versa in the same classification within the same department. Employees must have at least one year seniority to be eligible to post.
(a)	General Vacancies
In the event the Company re fles to fill a vacancy in any department [other than Sewer vacancies) they will post fci vacancies in the following manner in each case for a period of forty-eight (48) Birs, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and holidays. All eligible seniority employees intiP Bargaining Unitwill be allowed to apply. Selection for the vacancy will be based o Jniority providing the applicant has the 3"l®Jiecessary qualifications and ability to satisf otorily perform the work available.
(b)	Multi-Shift Sewer Vacancies
additional Sewers, selection from each section per shift
12.4	The Company shall post the	on the Job Posting Board and all
eligible seniority employees will be allowed	Selection to be made according
to Article 12.3 by plant wide seniority.
12.5	All resultant vacancies ( except: as outlined in 12.3(b) ) will be posted in accordance with the Job Posting Procedure
12.6	(a) — Should the resultant va|f employee on the Day / Midnight Shift under then be posted in accordance with 12.7 and
fancy as set out above, be filled by an this Agreement, the resultant vacancy will follow through the Job Posting Procedure.
(b) — This completes the S' Procedure for vacancies (other than vacan^i Company will take such steps as may be
: ole of transfer under the Job Posting :ies on the Day / Midnight :Shift), and the uired to fill the remaining vacancy if any.
re (|
ie
12,7	Day/Midnight Shift Vacancies
In the event the Company require to tin a vacancy on the Day/Midnight shift they will post such vacancies in the followi g manner in each case for a period ol
forty-eight (48) hours, excluding Saturdays, Su
idays and holidays, Day/Midnight shift
vacancies (limited to 12 per month of which not r lore than 8 to be sewers) will be posted
and any further vacancies will continue to be p Day shift /Midnight shift vacancies have been vacancy Plant Wide on the Job Posting Board, be allowed to apply. The resultant vacancies wi the Job Posting Procedure.
>sted each month thereafter until all oosted. The Company shall post the and all eligible seniority employees will I be posted in accordance with 12.4 of
Selection for the vacancy will be b has the necessary qualifications and ability to
sed on seniority providing the applicant satisfactorily perform the work available.
A total of twelve (12) employees pi sewers to be moved within one month of the Jcjb
month of which not more than 8 to be Posting.
This completes the cycle
vacancies on the Day/Midnight Shift, and the Company will take such steps as may be required to fill the remaining vacancy, if any.
Is accepted for a vacancy, he shall be he fails to demonstrate his ability to Working days, or he requests to be
12,8	Disqualification
Where an employee bids for and given appropriate job instruction. If, however perform the work efficiently within ten (10) disqualified within ten (10) working days from f 6 Job Posting following his acceptance of the position, he shall be returned to his fprmer department from which he was transferred in the following manner:
1.	The employee will fill a [vacancy in the section, in the classification, on the shift Irom whence he came, should a vacancy exist at the time
17
Failing the above, the Employee will fill a vacancy in the department, intheclassi
cation, should one exist.
Failing the above, dispjace the junior employee in the classification.
4. Failing the above, the employee in the plant.
12.9	An employee requesting disqu^ i further job postings for a period of six months
12.10	The Company will then review, ir date of disqualification for the permanent/ter bidder has the qualifications to satisfactory p| same ten (10) day period. This shall also ; extended
12.11	A vacancy may be temporari the vacancy through the Job Posting Procedu Workers' Compensation, and all Leaves of Ap
completion of the assignment, will apply his se
mployee will displace the junior
ification will be ineligible to post on any from date of acceptance.
order of seniority, all eligible bidders from vacancy to determine if another the work who will be subject to the pply when the training period has been
y filled, pending the permanent filling of e or as a result of Sickness and Accident,
sence.
Should a new hire be placed on ,j temporary position, the employee, upon
liority to displace a junior employee inthe
plant, providing the employee has the ability tb perform the function
A temporary position will be pj) employee be on long term disability leave as
Seniority providing, an employ absence will return to their classification in the surplus under the surplus language.
sted on a permanent basis should an )f twelve complete months of absence.
ie returning to work after any leave of jepartment/ section / shift or be declared
18
An employee who has bid success accept another temporary job posting for a peril acceptance unless the work to which he was tri bid is subsequently discontinued, then the emp temporaryjob posting.
ully on a temporary job posting cannot ic d of three (3) months from the data ol qpsferred as a result of such successful oyee would be free to bid on another
Upon completion of a six (6) mont i period on a temporary job posting an employee will have the opportunity to return to t eir former classification providing such request is made in writing and submitted to the Personnel Department. An employee requesting off a temporary job posting will remain on the function pending the filling ol the temporary vacancy,
An employee who has bid successfully on a permanent job posting cannot accept another job posting for a period of six (6) months from date of acceptance unless the work to which he was transferred as a result of such successful bid is subsequently discontinued, then the employee would be free to bid on another job posting.
An employee will be considered to have bid successfully on a Job posting upon the completion of 10 full working days fc lowing his assignment to the position. Training period may be extended by mutual ai reement between Company and Plant Committee.
12.12	The Company will give the Union i copy of all job postings placed on the Job Posting Board. A copy of the applicants a ang with successful applicants will also be forwarded to the Union. He shall be paid t ie regular rate of the classification and have his name posted on the Job Posting Boar I within five (5) working days from date
of acceptance. An employee must be availab e to accept and perform the work on a permanent/temporary job posting, within five w irking days of the date the posting is to be removed from the board, and shall receive t|e rate of the classification no later than the start of the Payroll Week following the datefthe posting is removed from the board.
19
Company to identify to the Plant Committee, temporary Job posting. Successful applicants following acceptance of the position.
lames of employees being replaced on a will be moved within five (5) working days
12.13	Each posting notice will define department, the shift and the section the vai normally performed. Employee will sign the
th e
classification requirements including the icjancy is on, the rate of pay and the work e cceptance form prior to movement.
12.14	Temporary Job Posting
Temporary Job Postings will be ilearly Identified as plant wide and posted
as per the procedure outlined under Article X
12.15	(a) — Temporary Transfers
A temporary transfer is limited employee's vacation, and beyond that the pos or permanent unless the 15 working day limit the Company and the Union. However, wh^i employee that he will be absent from work for will post the position if necessary on a temporlai
to 15 working days, or duration of an ition must be posted as either temporary is extended by mutual consent between re the Company is made aware by an ijnore than 15 working days, the Company ry basis under Article 12.14.
When it becomes necessary to r classification to another, the employees shall the rate of the classification they are transferreijl of their shift.
(b)	— Transfer Procedure Within Section/Department
A section/department seniority lisl will be posted bi-monthly, commencing in February in the section/department, for 4II hours, for employees to indicate any classification, at a higher rate of pay, in which they are interested in transferring to within their section/department. Selection will be ms de by seniority, by shift, from within the section/department, providing there will be a minimal disruption of production and the
Job Posting.
ove employees from one department or oe paid the rate of their classification or to, whichever is greater, for the balance
20
applicant has the necessary qualifications and ability to satisfactorily perform the work available. Employees selected must move to th| available vacancy.
Should a classification have no applicants, the vacancy will be filled by the lowest qualified seniority employee from within t|e section/department by shift with the exception of the classifications posted yearly as|listed below in 12.15(c). However, in the event the hiohest seniority emplovee(s), if qualified, is not transferred, payment wil. be made to th e employee(s)
(c)	— Transfer procedure To A lother Department
1.
Effective the seconc Monday of each March the
Company will post the following classifications on the Job Posting Board provided for five working days. A listing of successful applicants will b posted within ten (10) working days from the boar&
Stockperson Quality Control Auditor Receiving Insfector General Maintenance Assembler
2.	Employees wishing consideration to transfer to a temporary position in another department will place (heir names on the transfer shqet provided for the above listed classifications.
J.7 fc
3.	Selection will be mane by seniority by shift providing there will be a minimal cfsruption of production and the applicant has the necesspry qualifications and ability to satisfactorily perform the work available. However, in the event the highest seniority employee(s) if qualified is not transferred, payment will be made to the employee(s).
A. Employees who leave of absence, layofj, have 5 working days application in Personnel transfer under Article 12,
were not available due to disability, or vacation at time of posting will rom their date of return to make for consideration on temporary 15(c) 1.
5. The Company v) changes within 5 working copy to the Union Comnil
ill select and adjust any transfer days of application and provide a ittee.
12.16	Once the selection process ha: unless prevented from transferring for medic
Medical clearance and request by the employee inthe PersonnelDepartmei
12.17	Once an employee has been f temporary posting the cycle must be comp anothertemporarytransfer/posting. An empi of a temporary transfer and/or temporary employee once the second transfer has corn
12.18	Should a classification have r posting, the classification will be filled by th from within the section by shift (if such applir shift and third from within the plant by shift, | of production and the employee has the
been completed employees must transfer, reasons.
return to the eligibility list must be made
iced on a temporary transfer and / or a before the employee is eligible for with higher seniority upon completion will not bump a lower seniority
lenced
applicants, on the temporary transfer lowest qualified seniority employee first ■), second from within the department by oviding there will be a minimal disruption necessary qualifications and ability to
22
12.19	Departments
The plant shall be divided into the following departments:
1.	Cutting Department
2.	Sewing Department
3.	Quality Control Department
4.	Material Handling Oeiartment
5.	Maintenance Department
6.	Skilled Trades
Should a new department arise	life of this Agreement the
Company shall notify the Union and post all	on a Plant Wide Posting in
accordance with the Job Posting Procedure.
In the event there is a new
claL
instituted, such classification and rate of pay will Union.
4
isification or a reclassification to be re negotiated by the Company and the
ARTICLE13 — LAYOFFS
13.1	Layoffs of not longer duration thj excluding Saturdays and Sundays, shall not reqj seniority It is understood that the Employee required to work A layoff of one (1) week department seniority and the pertinent shift employees affected by a layoff of one (1) wi departmental seniority, will be eligible for reduci Week plan, but payable at the percentage leve
13.2	An employee may exercise his pk layoff of four (4) non-consecutive days in any
n five (5) consecutive working days, ife an adjustment of the work force by quired will be from the pertinent shift onday — Friday) will be by section / |will not apply. It is understood that ek (Monday — Friday) out of line of wages, paid outside of the Short Work of the plan, at the time of layoff.
nt seniority rights after an accumulative c jlendar month.
23
13.3	Where it is known that a laytff will exceed 5 working days, excluding Saturdays and Sundays, the manpower will he adjusted on a plant wide seniority basis
13.4	A seniority employee shall exa rlSR-hii 'seniority rights in any classification at the time of a layoff, providing he has the physical capability of performing the jot efficiently in a reasonable period of time or i l the event of exercising seniority into the sewer classification has satisfactorily complet id the SewingTraining Program as outlinec in Article 20 and has the present physical ce pability to perform the work.
13.5 Probationary employees will be than one day, except in the case when an e the Company may retain, in addition to a se until the job is secured and no disruption of
13.6 In the event of a reduction in calendar days, the listed officers are to be ri below the number listed, it will reduce in the
the first to be laid off in any layoff of more nployee is on a key job requiring training lior employee, the probationary employe* iroduction will occur.
he work force greater than fourteen (14 •e ained at work. Should the work force fal following order:
Guide
Sgt-at-Arms Trustees (by natu I 2nd Vice-Presiden Vice President Recording Secreta Financial Secreta President Bargaining Commi Plant Chairperson
seniority)
ie (by natural seniority)
In no event can an employee on indefinite layoff utilize this clause to affect a recall
24
13.7	Surplus - Layoff
The following procedure shall app
recall.
Employees declared surplus will classification they are employed.
I In the event of a layoff, surplus or first exercise their seniority in the
Employees with insufficient senioritr department. Should there not be a junior emp apply their seniority to displace a junior employe of Article 13, Sections 13.4, in both the departm layoff and surplus procedure may be that the mi on layoff starting with the probationary employee: Sections 13.4 in both the department and the p
will displace a junior employee in their oyee in the department then they will in the plant, subject to the provisions ient and the plant. The result of the junior employees in the plant will be subject to the provisions of Article 13, ant.
c st
13.8 Employees declared surplus on a steady Day / Midnight shift will first exercise their seniority in the classification on the steady Day / Midnight shift, secondly they will exercise their seniority in the classifies! on they are employed.
Employees with Insufficient senlorit > will displace a junior employee in their
, ---------------------------------------------------
department. Should there not be a junior emp oyee in the department then they will
apply their seniority to displace a junior emp!	the plant, subject to the provisions
of Article 13, Sections 13.4, in both the department and the plant. The result of the
layoff and surplus procedure will be that the mast junior employees in the plant will be
on layoff starting with the probationary employees, subject to the provisions of Article 13,
Sections 13.4, in both the department and the plant.
13.9 The Supervisor must give at least
the Committee Member and the employee affec 3d unless such layoffs affect individuals under the Employment Standards Act in which cjse the layoffs will be within the confines
25
of the Act. The twenty-four (24) hour notice which the employee worked. However, it is with respect to circumstances beyond the
shall be given on the previous work day or understood that this provision does not apply control of the Company.
recognized that during short periods of time
employees exercising plant seniority to t|he sewer classification will be assigned tc other classifications.
13.10 Due to schedule changes, absenteeism or leave of absences, it is
of not greater than one week per occasion
ARTICLE14 — RECALL
14.1 On Recall from a layoff under employees will return to their previous jobs, recall rights to their jobs as provided below
Article 13, Section 13.1, 13.2, and 13.3, al or shall be declared surplus and maintain
rork
14.2 Should the Plant increase its wi Section 13,3, surplus employees in the Plali return to their former classification on the Dsy unless they have successfully posted in the
force following a layoff, under Article 13. nt from the Day Shift / Midnight Shift wil Shift / Midnight Shift in their department,
meantime.
Surplus employees in the Pl former classification in their department, un meantime.
14.3 Further vacancies will be posted in accordance with the Job Posting Procedure and employees placed on layoff rom the Plant, in order of seniority, will fil
the resultant vacancies providing such empli
satisfactorily perform the work available, subject to the provision of Article 13, Section 13,4, this then will become the employees jjrb classification.
it from the Multi-Shift will return to their ess they have successfully posted in the
yees have the necessary qualifications tc
JF
14.4 Surplus employees on the shift will]return to their previous classification before any temporary transfers or temporary pc minimal disruption of production. In the event payment will be made to the employee from date of complaint.
However, surplus employees returning from the opposite shift will return tc
week providing there are available employees from the applicable transfer sheets able to perform theirfunction. Should this occur, no penalty will be assessed to the Comnplhv
ARTICLES 15 — ANNUAL INVENTORY - CY(JlE CHECK INVENTORY
In the event of annual/short cycle check inventory (inventory for recorc purposes) employees shall be requested, by def artmental / section seniority providing he has the necessary qualifications and is immec ately able to satisfactorily perform the work required. Sewer Leaders will be requestec by section seniority. Failure to mee the required manning levels will necessitate the Junior leaders in each section to work Should the Company be unable to acquire sufficient employees, the junior employees in the department / section will be required to v|ork the annual-cycle check inventory Additional manpower will be requested by plant wipe seniority, providing employees have the ability to perform the function,
Employees who work the annual / cycle cljeck inventory will be available througt tr> and including Sunday, regardless of shift Sunday.
Upon completion cf Inventory, work will bdset up for production by those workinj Inventory.
The annual inventory period shall be posted on the Company bulletin boards tw< (2) weeks prior to the actual inventory and whqn the selection process is completed names will be posted.
27
ARTICLE 16 — DISABILITYPLACEME
In the event of an employee to advancing age, exception may be made in favour of such employee but, in the ever; be subject to the seniority provisions of this he not been disabled. Following recall afte the seniority provisions of this Agreement ir to be made when agreed to mutually by the
buffering a major disability, or disability due 3 the seniority provisions of this Agreement of a layoff or recall after a layoff, he shall Agreement which would have applied, had a layoff, exception may again be made to favour of such employee. Such exception Company and the Plant Union Committee.
ARTICLE 17 — FORMATION/DISCONI lljlUANCb Uh A MULTI-SHIFT
The parties agree that this General hji section going onto a Multi-Shift operation employees who have been moved onto a return to a Day I Midnight shift.
rovision will apply during the formation of a and its object is to give those seniority Multi-Shift of the section the opportunity to
Vacancies or the re-location of empl this procedure, will be in accordance with tH
other than as specifically outlined in p Job Posting Procedure.
17.2	The number of seniority employ have the opportunity to return to a Day / Mic i same classification, in the following manner
17.3	Upon the formation of the Mult requesting re-location to a Day Shift / Midni requested to place their names on a notice The notice will run for forty-eight (48) hours
ees assigned to the Multi-Shift sections will [night Shift section of the department in the
Shiftsection(s), those seniority employees ht Shift section, of the Department, will be vjlrhich will appear on the Job Posting Board.

17.4	Once the seniority employees are returned to the Day / Midnight Shift jobs in the cIe (5) employees from each shift, of which not more weeks.
placed on a Multi-Shift they shall be ssification at a rate of no less than five han four (4) will be sewers, every two
17.5	Those re-locating to a Day / Midnight Shift section will displace the junior employee in their classification.
17.6	This process will continue until th requested re-location to the Day / Midnight shift, who is in a Day / Midnight Shift section,
3 seniority of an employee who has is insufficient to displace an employee
17.7	Those employees who are being di placed by the more senior employees, will be re-located to the Multi-Shift section(s) of t e department. After the completion ol the process, if there should be a need to incre ise the work force in the department, vacancies will be filled in accordance with the Job Posting Procedure.
17.8	In the event the Multi-Shift Is discontinued, the same procedure shall apply for discontinuance as for formation.
ARTICLE 13 - SEWER TRAINING PROGRAt
18.1	The Company will provide a training program (during periods of full employment or during periods when the plant las employees on indefinite layoff) to enable seniority employees in classifications ither than sewing, an opportunity to become qualified sewers in order to reduce th possibility of layoff due to inability to meet job requirements This article will apply 3 those employees actively at work at time of entry into the sewer training and with greater Dlant senioritv than sewers alreadv in the plant
29
18.2	The minimum training period vhll be 30 calendar days, but an employee may be disqualified, should the employee fail to show satisfactory qualifications or performance at anytime during the 30 dayca endar period. Determination of successful completion of the Sewing Program will be m de within 80 calendar days.
18.3	An employee's seniority shall be wide seniority will be accrued during the time completion of the Sewing Program an emplo| a further nine (9) month period as a sew employee will return to his own department or the Job Posting Procedure.
retained in his own department and plant spent in sewing. From date of successful ee (seniority providing) will then complete ir. Upon completion of this period, the may transfer to a sewing vacancy through
18.4	A posting will be placed on the second week of January each year. The Co postings per year, should the initial posting t qualify under the terms of this article must a ineligible for consideration of the posting. Th a rate not to exceed two per month in order
Should an employee not exerci sewing classification, during any twenty-four training, he may have to requalify prior to e sewing classification, for layoff purposes only.
Any employee declared surplus, following successful completion of the Sewing Program under Article 18.2, who returns to the program within twenty-four (24) months of surplus date will complete the balar ce of the training period. Failure to return to the Sewing Program within twenty-four (24) months from beinq declared surplus will require the employee to re-post.
ob Posting Board for one week during the mpany will post, to a maximum of two (2) e exhausted. Candidates that apply and tcept the posting or the employee will be candidates selected will enter training at of plant wide seniority.
ise his plant wide seniority to enter the (24) month period after completion of the his plant wide seniority into the
30
Should the Sewer Training Posting the names will be carried forward and incorporat seniority.
ot be exhausted by the end of the yeai d into the new posting in line with theii
Any active employee disqualified t / the Company or themselves, prior tc the date of this agreement, will not be permitted to re-apply for the Sewer Training Program for a period of eighteen (18) months frj>m the date of this Agreement.
Any active employee disqualified by the Company or themselves, after the date of this Agreement, will not be permitted td r t-apply for the Sewer Training Program for a period of eighteen months from the date ■ d^quahficahon.
ARTICLE 19 — SALARIED RETURN TO Ttff BARGAINING UNIT
19.1	Should a salaried employee berejturned to the Bargaining Unit he will be entitled to the seniority that he previously aaq|iii ed in the Unit, will bump the lowest seniority employee in his former department ai he wHI be ineligible to post on the job posting procedure for a period of one (1) yeaf-
ARTICLE 20 — PRODUCTION STANDARD
20,1	It shall be the Company's respoir
that:
(a)	— are fair and equitable to *f
(b)	— are based on working cap
(c)	— give due consideration to i
(d)	— give due consideration to i
ibility to establish production standards
rkers; and
;it ies of a normal worker; and jality of workmanship required: and nsonal time delays.
31
20.2	Before the Company studies ai worker who works on the job and his Comnliii and shall be told of the purpose of the studi
ir y job and makes a record of such a job, the ittee Member shall be notified in advance
20.3 Any established production staii< of a change, may be grieved on the ground; of the Article. In accordance with the Grievau be referred to Step No. 1 and submitted to
idard, whether it be a new one or the result that it does not conform to the provisions ce Procedure, complaints not resolved will t|ie Manager of Industrial Engineering.
20.4 During such Grievance Procec Grievance Procedure, if they so desire, havr Engineer present to examine all the data dispute, and may also examine and study also be made available to the Union in
th a
20.5	An established production st where no grievance has been filed shall not be changed except for the following _______
(a)	— To correct an arithmetic error shall be corrected.
possible for the worker to do the job in less
ure the Union may at Step No. 2 of the their National Representative Time Study ij/hich the Company has pertaining to the job. Standards information and data will writinlg upon request.
error. In which case only the arithmetic
(b)	— When the Company makes a change in the job which makes it
effort. In which case, the change in the
production standard shall reflect no more tha i the change in the job.
(c)	— When the Company mak worker to use more time and/or effort. In standard shall reflect the change in the job.
20.6	Should a production standard b 2 disputed by the Union, it Is agreed that after normal investigative procedures have been followed, the final resolution will be bv the stop watch method.
is a change in the job which requires the which case the change in the production
32
20.7	Prior to any job being studied the which the study is to be taken will be notified ve presence of the Supervisor.
ion Committee Member of the area in
bally by the Industrial Engineer in the
lied or deferred the Union Committee
20.8	If for any reason the study is canc Member shall be notified of the cancellation or c eferment by the Industrial Engineer in the presence of the Supervisor. The reasons for tancellation or deferment shall also be given.
20.9	Priorto a deferred study beingtake 1st a later datethe Committee Member of the area involved shall be renotified by the Industrial Engineer in the presence of the Supervisor.
20.10	A record log of the notifications [for each study, shall be kept in the Industrial Engineering Department.
ARTICLE 21 — HOURS OF WORK AND OV1 RTIME	U c-<rO
21.1 The normal workweek shall consist of 5 Jays per week, Monday to Friday, inclusive of 8 hours per day. Any time wort ed over 40 hours per week shall be considered overtime and paid for at time and a lalf. Any time worked over 8 hours per day shall be considered overtime and paid for t time and a half. (Employees absent for any reason during the hours between the rr gular starting and regular quitting time of their respective shifts and who return to wori during the hours of such shift shall be credited as having worked the eight (8) consecu ive hours for the purpose of computing overtime payment herein.) Nothing herein shall be construed as entitling the employee to receive overtime pay twice in respect of thejsame overtime work. Time and a half shall be paid for all work performed on a Satu|day. Double time shall be paid for all work performed on Sunday.
33
21.2 (a) — Normal 8 hour shift will 1st Shift — Starting timi: 2nd Shift — Starting tim 3rd Shift — Starting tim< :
(b) — Butted Shift Operations equal shifts, the normal hours of work will b 3:
Days	7 AM. — 3 P.M.
Afternoons	3F.M. — 11 P.M.
3b.	Midnights 11 fj'.M. — 7 A.M.
Employees working such oper The start of the week for the third butted shi
start between the following hours: s will be between 6:00 A.M. and 8:00 A.M s w II be between 2:30 P.M. and 4:30 P.M is will be between 11:00 FI M and 1:30 A.M
- when operations are required on three
21.3	Shift hours will be posted on th quitting times; rest periods and lunch period:
J
ttions will receive a 20 minute paid lunch it operations will be 11 P.M. Sunday night
3 bulletin boards designating starting time;
21.4 The Company will notify the Ur in advance of implementation and inform the
ion of changes in such posted information m of the reasons for the change.
21.5 The Company will not chanje the employee's starting time when
o' the regular scheduled workweek. If, any to change the employee's starting time
established on the first standard work day however, it becomes necessary for the Comp during such week, then all work performed before the regular starting time and after the regular quitting time shall be considered as c vertime and take the overtime rate of pay for the first day only with the exception of thu following:
(a)	— When an employe: s exercises seniority.
is laid off and called back to work. has been selected and accepts a jot during the week.
(d)	— When an employee is recalled to his home department durinc
the week.
21.6	When overtime is necessary, the Ct four (24) hours notice except where prevented fr >i beyond the control of the Company. In such cas to notify employees prior to noon of the day com advise the Committee Chairperson and Com employees are notified
mpany will give the employees twenty-mi doing so because of circumstances 3S the Company will make every effort erned. In any event the Company will nittee Person concerned before the
21.7	It is recognized that the Company's at times require overtime work. Overtime will be overtime over eight hours per week will be vj between the Union Bnd the Company. Further, following a Friday holiday or a weekend
H- O
""a-
operations are of such a nature which obligatory up to 8 hours a week. Any luntary unless mutually agreed upon y overtime on a weekend immediately
voluntary.
21,8	(a) Daily Overtime — Unscho |iled (One Hour or Less)
(Production Areas Including l(
g Cutting)
Unscheduled overtime will be offered to the em Department who normally perform such work ir
jloyees in the Cell / Module / Section I the classification on the same shift.
(b)	Daily Overtime — Sched Jled
(Production Areas Including Cutting)
Overtime will first be offered to employees v. no normally perform such work in the classification within the Module / Section / Dei artment. Supplementation overtime to a Module, will then be offered to the same shift c lassification in the Section / Department on a rotating basis. When overtime is requirec, employees will be scheduled from the seniority listing (each Wednesday), on a senioritv rotating basis from the required Module / Section / Department. It is understood that changes to daily overtime will necessitate employees changing their scheduled overtime. Employees who are not available for the date overtime is scheduled, will be recorded as offered for the purpose of balancing
35
overtime. These overtime records will be av; upon request by Employees or Plant Comnji Section I Department I Plant is scheduled
tillable at the Supervisor’s station forreviev ittee, No records will be kept when tota
Whenever one shift of an unb4lanced-shift section is scheduled to work records will be maintained.
21.9	Weekend Overtime (Product
(a)	Overtime on a woeken normally perform such work in the clas i Department, giving preference to the appli is required, employees will be scheduled fro on a seniority rotating basis from the r Supplementation will be offered to same cla
Whenever one shift of an unba records will be maintained.
Further supplementation will bd opposite shift Module / Section / Department work if the required manpower is not attain Department on the pertinent shift. Emploj overtime is scheduled, will be recorded asoffe
reas Including Cutting)
first be offered to employees wh( ion within the Module /Section hift employees first. When overtims seniority listing (each Wednesday) d Module / Section /Department tion from the pertinent shift section.
d-shift section is scheduled to work
offered to the same classification on the is outlined above. Junior employees wil ■ id from the required Module / Section ;ees who are not available for the dati ed for the purpose of balancing overtime.
These overtime records will be
review upon request by Employees or Plant total Section / Department/ Plant isscheduleb
(b) Overtime On Partial I Si When time and circumstance pi
available at the Supervisor’s station fo Committee, No records will be kept wher
gle Shift Operation
e^rmit, the Company is willing to consider
36
individual requests to decline overtime assignments offered with no notation made or
the employee's absentee record, where partial operations or a single shift of multi-shif department are scheduled, and there are qualified people who normally perform the work available and willing to work.
(c)	Afternoon / Midnight Shift Supplementation
When employees request to be excused from overtime assignments, anc time and circumstance permits, employees to supplement on Day Shift overtime will firs be requested from the Afternoon Shift and employees to supplement on Afternoon Shlf will first be requested from the Midnight Shift.
(d)	Overtime — Support Areas!
As far as reasonably possible, overtime will be equitably distributed amonc those employees who normally perform such worl in the classification on a departments basis hv shift Overtime records will be keDt uo 1) date by the Company and posted ir the Department on a weekly basis.
Overtime on a weekend will b employees who normally perform such work in tl by shift, giving preference to day shift employee;
Equalization of overtime shall coi commencing with the senior employees, using tl all overtime worked or offered except in the folic
equitably distributed among those classification on a department basis first.
'mence on January 1st of each yeai procedure of charging and recording ring situations:
Overtime offered to a and Henartment Oth€ ' own and refused.
lassification than their
Overtime offered aid refused within twenty-four (24jhours of the scheduled overtime sjiift.
3?
3. Inventory / cycle Check inventory.
4.	Premium paymer Is for shift changes.
(e)	Overtime On Partial /
When time and circumstance individual requests to decline overtime assi the employees absentee record, where parti department are scheduled and there are qur available and willing to work.
! ingle Shift Operation
oermlt, the Company is willing to conside i jnments offered with no notation made or »l operations or a single shift of a multi shif lalified people who normally perform the wort
(f)	Afternoon / Midnight Shift Supplementation
When employees request to bn excused from overtime assignments, anc time and circumstance permit, employees to supplement on Day Shift overtime will firs be requested from the Afternoon Shift and e nployees to supplement on Afternoon Shif will first be requested from the Midnight Shill.
ale
21.10	In the event overtime has not bqi 21.8 or 21.9 and a complaint has been m; working days from the alleged violation the work the next partial overtime or overtime following the complaint providing the eompla|li and the employee can satisfactorily perform
If a legitimate complaint has bee i for overtime and not offered additional ov payment will be made at the appropriate re
Probationary and Seniority Emf)l' departments or shifts shall be credited wi procedure agreement between Union/Compa
en equitably distributed as set out in Article by an employee within five (5) normal employee will be given an opportunity tc on a weekend within the 30 day perioc nt is legitimate, there is overtime available [he required function.
n filed by an employee who was by-passec dime in accordance with Adicle 23.10
oyees transferred to other classifications h tie highest hours (as established by iy) of the depadment in a day shift area oi
38
an applicable multi-shift area. Such procedure 13 exclude Plant Committee hours for calculation of highest hours.
Excluding vacation, employees on of absence, sick leave, compensation, shall be c: classification on the same basis as if they were
if they wer
ly-off (from their classification), leave arged for overtime as it occurs in the mployees in the classification.
21.11	Reporting Pay
An employee called or permitted tjb come to work for the Company for whom no work is available shall be paid four (4) hours time at the hourly rate he would have received if he had actually worked. This pr ivision shall not apply when such lack cf work is due to a fire, flood or otherjust cause
21.12	Stand-By Allowance —
Should anemployee agree to standby awaiting notification to be called into work, compensation of 4 hours straight time will Je paid ifthe employee is not called in
ui
21.13	Call-Back Allowance
When an employee has left the pr
shift or after having dischargedthe special duties which he hasagreedto perform for the
Company and is called uponto returnto the plan’ regularly scheduled for him to resume his duties
4 hours at the appropriate rate as provided und< r Article 21 Section 21 1
21.14	It is understood that stand-by ai employee receive pay for call-back allowance.
after completion of his normal
for emergency duties, Prior to the time he shall receive payfor a minimum of
owance will not be paid should an
21.15	The Company agrees that	event an employee is late three (3)
minutes, no deduction of pay will be made i	first such occurrence in any one week.
39
Multi-Shift Program
(a) — It is agreed that unles i specified in this Agreement or by mutual consent between the Union and the Company, Shift Rotation will be applicable to all
employees in Multi-Shift departments.
(b)	— Third shift rotation Shift rotation (forthe Third shi
deemed necessary.
(c)	— Unbalanced shift rota: Shift rotation by an employee r
shift rotation inmulti-shiftdepartments/sectic each other and have the necessary ab However, should an employee select this during the period of his applicabledepartme training deemed necessary which requires Company will meet with the Union and outl
21.17 — Specialized Trainin Should any specialized traini classification, rotation may take place withir
) will not be required should a third shift be ion
iay be waived during periods of unbalanced ns, providing employees can accommodate ity to immediately perform the function. option, he will remain on the second shift it/section unbalanced shift. Any specialized !he employee to move to the day shift, the oe the specific training program.
Movoment/Rotatlon
g be required within any non production that classification group.
22.1 Eligible seniority employees wi provided he meets all of the following eligibi
be paid eight (8) hours of regular earnings ity rules unless otherwise provided herein:
(b) — The employee would o such day if it had not been observed as a
(a) — The employee has senit irity as of the date of the holiday,
herwise have been scheduled to work on hblidav. and

(c) — The employee must have Worked the last scheduled working day prior to and the next scheduled working day a ter such holiday within the scheduled
workweek. An employee excused by managei working day prior to or on the next scheduled w scheduled workweek, but not both, shall be deen Paragraph (c).
tent from work on the last scheduled irking day after such holiday within the ed to have met the requirements of this
r: ed
t ib
(d) — In the case of a series of he (i.e. Christmas fill), the employee must have woi to the Holiday period in order to qualify for employee must have worked the 1st scheduled in order to qualify for the balance of the Christm n is placed on layoff on the first day following the
(e) — Employees Retiring on D( An otherwise eligible employee wh i the last scheduled working day prior to the CJh: Holiday pay to the end of the year.
22.2 If the employee had been scheduled to work on the day prior to or the day succeeding the holiday he must have worked he scheduled shift on each day. The employee will not be eligible for payment should he be late, without reasonable cause more than 2 hours on either or both of the qualifying shifts.
idays falling on consecutive work days the last scheduled working day prioi 1st half of the Holiday period. Ar forking day following the Holiday perioc is Holiday period, unless the employee Christmas Holiday period.
cember 31
retires on December 31 and who works ristmas Holiday Period is eligible foi
22.3 It is further agreed that there sh, same day or days arising out of the terms of tf
II be no duplication of payment for the
is article.
22.4 An employee who agrees to worl and who. without reasonable cause, fails to rei ineligible for holiday pay.
on the day of observance of a holidai ort for and perform such work, shall b<
41
22.5	It is further provided that, shoi one or more of the above holidays and re Compensation benefits for that holiday(s), amount of Accident and Sickness or Work
iild an employee qualify for holiday pay for :eives Accident and Sickness or Workers' his holiday pay shall be reduced by the ers' Compensation benefits paid for that
day(s).
Any employee who works on double his-regular straight time hourly rate normal days pay for those employees with
a paid holiday shall be paid-at-the rate of Apr such work, this is to be in addition to the
eniority.
22.7
Employees Laid Off, Going Leave or on Workers' Compii
in Sick and Pregnancy Leave, Personal nsation
An eligible employee who has has gone on sick and pregnancy leave Compensation will be eligible for holiday pay shift in the fourteen (14) calendar day periol to the Christmas fill period holiday pay she li
22.8
Employees Returning from Personal Leave or on Worke
layo [f
An eligible employee on personal leave or on Workers' Compensation will be eligible for holiday pay provided he fourteen (14) calendar day period after a Christmas fill period holiday pay shall be lirr
22.9 Where required to accomplis additional holidays will be added to the hql agreement, the following days are holidays
been laid offin a reduction of force or who granted personal leave, or on Workers' provided heworked his last scheduled work before a holiday, except that as it relates I be limited to the first half of the holiday
Layoff, Sick and is' Compensation
Pregnancy Leave,
on sick and pregnancy leave, granted who returns to work following the holiday 'worked his first scheduled work shift in the holiday, except that as it relates to the ted to the last half of the holiday period.
filling the Christmas New Year period, liday schedule. For the purpose of this
/-bO
mas Holiday Period
1st Year 1995 -H996
Monday, December25, 1995)
Tuesday, December26, 1995)
Wednesday, December27, 1995)
Thursday, December28, 1995)
Friday, December 29, 1995)
Monday, January 1, 1996)
Friday, April 5, 1996	Giod Friday
Monday,April 8,1996	Erster Monday
Monday, May 20, 1996	Vi toria Day
Monday, July 1 1996	C; nada Day
Monday, August 5, 1996	Ci'ic Holiday
Monday, September 2, 1996	U oour Day
Monday, October 14, 1996	T1 anksgiving Day
2nd Year 1996-
Tuesday, December 24, 1996)-Wednesday, December25, 1996) i Thursday, December26, 1996)	Ci
Friday, December27, 1996)
Monday, December30, 1996)
Tuesday, December31, 1996)
Wednesday, January 1, 1997)
Friday, March28, 1997 Monday, March31, 1997 Monday, May 19, 1997 Monday, June 30, 1997 Monday, August 4, 1997 Monday, September 1, 1997 Monday, October 13, 1997	T
1997 <£-
ristmas Holiday Period
iod Friday ster Monday toria Day
C nada Day /ic Holiday Li bour Day
3rd Year 1997 fydfifiar 1997
anksgiving Day 1998	,-v
1998 4-
ristmas Holiday Period
Wednesday. December 24, 1997)- ';//
Thursday, December25, 1997)
Friday, December 26, 1997)
Monday, December29, 1997)
Tuesday, December 30, 1997)
Wednesday, December 31, 1997)
Thursday, January 1, 1998)
Friday, April 10, 1998	Gjbod Friday
Monday, April 13, 1998	E ister Monday
Monday, May 18, 1998	Vporia Day
Friday, July 3, 1998	Canada Day
Monday, August 3, 1998	Cvic Holiday
Monday, September7, 1998	L ibour Day
Monday, October 12, 1998	T lanksgiving Day

ARTICLE 23 — VACATION PAY
23.1 Every employee who has beei the following period will be entitled to Vaca as of June 30th. as follows:
Pa % or b Whlchovt
jrv-
Continuous Service
Up to Six Months ■	"
Six Months to One Year One to Three <DI - 0 "3. Three to Six
rea
Six to Ten
D(o - o ?>
Ten to Fifteen
Fifteen to Twenty / b" - o iF
Over Twenty Q-b - b^
4%
4%
4% or 88 5% or 88 6% or 12 8% or 12E Hours 9% or 16E Hours
in the employment of the Company during ion Pay based on their continuous service
Time-Off
None
1	Week
2	Weeks
2	Weeks
3	Weeks
3	Weeks
4	Weeks
5	Weeks
Hours
Hours
Hours
5fT du
In calculating the above, em| thousand (1,000) hours, shalt be entitled to of the earnings during such twelve (12) mon who have worked at least nine hundred (900, shall be entitled to vacation pay equal to at le based on the number of hours of pay applicai
iployees who have worked less than one receive vacation pay based on percentage h period of the vacation year. Employees but less than one thousand (1,000) hours ast eighty (80) percent of their entitlement ble in the above schedule.
23.2 The above percentages shall b during the year ending May 25, 1996 - Maj vacation pay. In cases where employees vacation year and have received Sickness Compensation benefits (WCB) during the ye: a credit For 40 hours for each week during whi or WCB benefits, in addition to total earning:
3 calculated on their total annual earnings 31, 1997 - May 30, 1998 of the year of rave at least 1,000 hours worked in the and Accident (S&A) benefits or Workers' r the vacation pay calculation shall include ch such employees received full week S&A from the Company.
M
Employees who retire with greater t will receive vacation pay at the rate as outlined in schedule if less than one thousand (1,000) hours
:h|pn one thousand (1,000) hours worked, article 25.1 or the vacation percentage are worked.
Upon termination of employment, a vacation pay based on regulations as set out in
i employee will be eligible to receive 1 le Employment Standards Act.
The vacation pay calculation as out|ined above does not include previous
vacation pay.
23.3	For the purposes of Vacation entitterfient the annual period will be from July 1st until June 30th of the following year.
l peric i
23.4 The annual vacation shutdown such employees shall be paid on the basis set o
will be selected by the Company and it above.
23.5	The dates of the Annual Vacation [Periods will be posled on the notice boards by May 1st each year. In allotting choice vacation periods the following procedure will apply: Those employees entitled! to three or more weeks vacation will make application on forms provided by The Company indicating whether or not they wish consideration for additional week(s) in conjunctfcn with the Plant Vacation Shutdown
period and/or for consideration for additional we
30th. Employees requesting additional week(<) from August 1st to June 30th will
indicate three (3) choices but not more than one
Twenty percent (20%) of those em; vacation entitlement requesting vacation in conj granted approval by the Company. It is understlbt the non-production departments the Company w should the number requesting vacation interfe adequate staff which is qualified and able to do
k(s) commencing August 1st to June
(1) choice in any one month.
if oyees with three (3) or more weeks of ijpction with the Plant Shutdown will be od for the period noted above that in be allowed to re-schedule vacations e with the Company maintaining an he necessary work during this period.
45
Employees with approved week(s) vacation period will not be eligible to apply for a furthe ■ to 3 weeks or more vacation must indicate may exceed the percentage figure noted abb'
1 conjunction with the Vacation Shutdown three (3) year period. Employees entitled i heir vacation preference, as the Company ive in any one year.
For employees requesting vaca will be at the discretion of the Company.
It is further understood that in greater than two weeks, vacations approved as approved leaves of absence and the a Vacation.
ions from August 1 st to June 30th approval
he event the vacation shutdown period is August 1st to June 30th will be considered dditional shutdown period designated as
In allotting choice vacation pe choice to those having the greatest seniority Personnel Department May 1st. In order to te Application Forms must be completed and re 3 normal working days from May 1st. Vacatic than May 15th of each year. In the event th<b vacation shutdown period, the Company wll areas, on a department basis those employee: work prior to those employees with three or
Employees with three or more Early Vacations prior to June 30th. Early \ month prior to vacation request date; upon va cheque upon request, will be issued prior to
An employee may request to defer a portion of their vacation entitlement and corresponding vacation pay in accordancs with the application time frame indicated previously in this article.
iods, the Company will give priority of Application forms will be available in the given consideration the Vacation Choice urned to the Personnel Department within n approvals will be announced by not later Company schedules production during a canvass by seniority in the production is with less than three weeks vacation to nore weeks of vacation entitlement.
weeks vacation entitlement may request acation requests must be submitted one t ation approval one early vacation payment ommencement of early vacation.
46
23.6	Vacation pay as above shall paid to the employee prior to commencement of his annual vacation.
ARTICLE 24 — LEAVE OF ABSENCE
24.1	General
(a)	— The provisions of this Articje are for the purpose of maintaining uninterrupted seniority rating during authorized other purpose.
reriod of leave of absence and for no
Sfer
(b)	— A leave of absence of one (f Immediate Supervisor, except in cases involving day following a statutory holiday, excluding approved in advance in writing by the Personfi application to be submitted at least five (5) requested off.
day may be granted by the employee's theworking day before, or the working turday and Sunday, which must be el Manager or his designate. Such rjormal working days prior to the day
(c)	— The Personnel Manager or t temporary leave of absence providing it has be Supervisor. A leave of absence must be appliet for more than one month. At the expiration of thi an extension of the leave may be granted by th
24.2	An employee requesting a leave < f absence will make application to the employee's supervisor on a five (5) part reques t form supplied by the Company. The
is designate may grant an employee a n processed through the employee's for in writing and in no case be issued period, should circumstances warrant, r Personnel Manager or his designate
fifth (5) part of this form will be retained by the e to forward Leave of Absence request form to P
nployee for his record. The Supervisor rsonnel for approval.
If the employee is not advised of th within ten (10) working days from the date of api
i status of his leave of absence request i| lication he must sign the "No Response
47
Portion" of the leave of absence request request is not processed within an addition considered to be granted. The advance not August of any year.
arm in the Personnel Department. If the at two (2) working day period, it shall be not apply to the months cf July and
24.3	An employee who engages in renewal thereof, except for the purpose of unless specific provisions are made in adva Chairperson will be given a copy of all leavi:
gainful employment while on such leave or ehabilitation, shall lose his seniority rights nee to cover this circumstance. The Planl s of absence whether approved or not.
24.4 Personal
t/"	Under certain private and peri
to divulge his reasons to anyone other circumstances an employee may apply direct I a leave of absence at his discretion. Such li limits and conditions in Article 24, Section will be notified, in writing, of the employee1 absence.
th; i
24.
's(onal conditions an employee may not wish n the Personnel Manager. Under these y to the Personnel Manager who may grant ves of absence will be subject to the same 1 (c) cf this Article. The Plant Chairperson name receiving such approved leave of
24.5	Sick Leave
A seniority employee who is ur able to work because of an illness or nonindustrial injury and who furnishes satisfactor / evidence thereof shall be granted a leave of absence while disabled for an indefinite pe riod subject to paragraph 11.5(e) of Article 11. The employee will return to work in axordance with his seniority, provided he furnishes to the Company, satisfactory medi ;al evidence cf recovery no later than one
(1) work day prior to the date of return. In t with medical restrictions, a "Physician Referrc no later than three working days prior to the Placement Committee. The employee shal possible placement, one (1) work day prior t
re event an employee is returning to work Form" must be submitted to the Company proposed date of return for review by the contact the Company, for information on 3 the proposed date cf return.
48
24.6	(a) — Pregnancy Leave
Seniority employees who become bregnant shall be granted a leave of absence from employment, in accordance with prc vinciat/federal legislation to a minimum of 6 months from the date of commencement o such leave, but may be of a shorter duration upon request. Such leaves may be e tended beyond six (6) months, upon presentation of a doctor's certificate stating the r ecessity thereof.
(b)	—Adoption Leave Seniority employees shall be grant
o
ant d leave
eave of absence from employment.
The leave of absence shall be limi commencement of such leave, but may be of a leaves may be extended beyond six (6) months
:ed to six (6) months from the date of shorter duration upon request. Such due to extenuating circumstances.
24,7	Bereavement Pay
(a) _ when death occurs in the erjiployee's immediate family, a seniority employee, on request, will be excused, and aft< r making written application therefore, receive payment for up to three (3) normally scheduled days of work (excluding Saturdays, Sundays and holidays, or, in the ce regular off days and holidays) during the period ending with the second calendar day after the d; y of the funeral, provided the employee attends the funeral. The employee’s immediate family means the following persons:
se of seven-day operations, excluding ommencing with the date of death and
Spouse,
Parent,
Stepparent or Grandparent,
Parent, Stepparent or Granf parent of current spouse, Child or stepchild,
Grandchild,
Brother or Stepbrother,
Sister or Stepsister,
Half—Brother or Half—sister.
Son-In-Law or Daughter-In-
49
(b) — The employee shall recpi full working days on which the employee Subsection (a)
ive Bereavement Pay for the first three (3 s absent during the period established ii
(c) — Anemployee who refurr will not be eligible for Bereavement Pay for that bereavement
9 to work on or after the date of the funera any subsequent absence in connection witt
(d) — Payment shall be made on the last day worked exclusive of shift and operations premium and the amount of any thus paid will not be counted as hours worl
4.8 Union Office Leave
at the employee's straight-time hourly rati bvertime premiums but Including seven-da? ■iost-of-living allowance then in effect. Timi for purposes of overtime.
W"	(a) — Any employee who is elected or selected for a full time position witt
the Union shall be granted a leave of absenhe for a period of one year, with exlensior privileges, and while on such leave of absence shall not lose his seniority status, bu shall enjoy accumulative seniority
(b) — The Company will gra appointed by the Union to do temporary Conventions, Conferences or other Union bU not exceeding three (3) months, providing tf (20) twenty employees at the same time, employees per department I section I shift and that the Company is given at least fourl-for such leave of absence will be advanced by bill the local Union once per month at the e paid as a result of the Union leave, and the
it any member of the Union elected oi work for the Union or to attend Unior siness, a leave of absence for a period o e number of employees does not exceec and that there are no more than two (2 employees are Union Officers. days mtice whenever possible The pay the Company, on a weekly basis, who wil regular hourly entitled earning: Union agrees to promptly reimburse the
50
24.9 Conviction - Arising Out ot the O leration of a Motor Vehicle
An employee shall be granted a I ave of absence not exceeding 180 calendar days during which he is serving a sen snce of imprisonment imposed for a conviction arising out of the operation of a motor \ ehicle. If an extension is required the employee may apply under the provision of Secti in 24.4 of this Article.
{,3 Jo
24.10	Jury Duty Leave
Any seniority employee who is calldd to and reports for jury duty or as a subpoenaed witness shall be paid the differenc e between his jury duty payment or witness payment and his regular straight time pa for each day partially or wholly spent in performing jury duty or as a subpoenaed	if the employee would otherwise
have been scheduled to work for the Company arid does not work. A further such leave may be granted by the Personnel Manager or his lesignate. In order to receive payment under this section an employee must give the C rmpany prior notice that he has been summoned for duty and must furnish satisfactory evidence that the duty was performed on the days for which he claims such payment
I
24.11 Leave For Elected Or Appolntei Leave of absence shall
o fill an elected office in the municipal, provincial or federal government for a period of t ne term or an appointed position of the Provincial or Federal Government. Additional le event of re-election
Office
ive will be granted, if requested, in the
A leave of absence shall be grar municipal government where mutually agreed b
hoi
ed to fill an appointed position in the • the Company and the Union.
Where any such leave is for 3 hojirs or less per day, any elected union office will be left vacant for such period.
51
ARTICLE 25 — HEALTHAND SAFEY
25.1	There shall be a Health and Sa appointed by the Union, two (2) appointed
ety Committeeot four (4)members, two (2) y the Company.

25,2 The Union Health and Safety Committee memberswill tour the plant once 'a month and meet with the Company Health and Safety Committee to make recommendation to the Company, on the Het Ith and Safety of the employees, and copy of the recommendation shall be forwarded tc the Union. Copies of the minutes of this meeting will be posted on the Company Bulletin Boards.

the Ontario Governmenttour the plant,
25.3 Should the Safety Inspector frd there shall be a member of the Union Safety Committee in attendance, or in the absence of the Health and Safety Representative tt
Plant Chairperson will accompany the Inspector. Copies of any subsequent corresp ondencefrom the Companytothe Ministry
of Labour shall be supplied to the Union He:
25.4 The Company agrees that the , attend all Safety seminars as directed by normal wages plus expanses. It is undere.' person from the Company Safety Committee only one person from the Union Safety Com
25.5 It is further agreed that each responsibility under the Collective Bargainin safety problem with the appropriate Supervi
In the event the Committeepe handling of the matter, the Committeepersonwill
Ith and Safety Committee.
members of the Safety Committee shall ia Corporation and shall be paid at their should the Company send only one the Union would be entitled to payment for under this provision,
Union Committeeperson, as part of his g Agreement, can take up any health or or for review and resolution.
son is not satisfied with the Supervisor's refer itdireotly to the Safety Committee,
25.6	Safety Shoe Allowance:
The Company will provide a safety Material Handling,General Maintenanceanddesii
of $100.00 peryear toward the purchase price. Vhere unusual wear and tear, but not abuse, requires an additional pair, an additional !
If any of the above eligible employees purchase : worn
25.7	Minute of Silence:
A minute of silence will be observed each year on April 28th at 11:00 a.m
in memory of those persons who have died in Industrial Accidents.
25.8	Ergonomics:
Two members from the Committi
review the practical problems of Ergonomics in t re work place.
• Pri»
25.9	Prescription Safety Eye Wear
The Company will provide prescriptfoi to wear eye protection as part of their normal job safety eye wear from a distributor designated voucher from the Personnel Department prior to
25.10	Coveralls / Smocks:
Coveralls / Smocks will be issuec
e and Company representatives will
gram:
n eye wear for any employee required function. Employees must obtain their oy the Company, and must obtain a obtaining the eye wear.
only to employees in Skilled Trades,
Material Handling and General Maintenance an I they will be properly maintained.
A system will be put into place wh to the designated supplier to a maximum of two, be insulated)
reby the employee will take a voucher (2) pair per year (one (1) of which may
25.11	Safety Talks:
The Company will continue j to provide periodic Safety Talks for all
employees.
As agreed upon during negol Chairperson, Skilled Trades Committeepers; and Safety Committee of any newequipme
25.13	First Aid and C.P R, Training The Company will continue its
C.P.R. Training.
25.14	Safety Procedures:
The following is a list of Safety I
Products:
ions, the Company will notify the Plant Area Committeeperson and Joint Health (not replacement equipment of a similar
irrnnt practice of providing First Aid and
cedures in place at Canadian Fabricated
Electrical Safe Work Practice Emergency Response and E'
•	Forklifts— Powered Industrie
•	Ground Faults/ Assured Gro
•	Hazard Communications
•	Ladder Safety
•	Lockout/Tagoul — Control of Working Alone
Noise Exposure— Hearing C Respiratory Protection Welding, Cutting Brazing for Personal ProtectiveEquipmei
ation Plans
rucks
ing
zardous Energy rervation
intenance Repair
5/
The above procedures, will remain
!Ct during the term of the Agreement
25.15 Worker’s Right to Refuse Unsafe pork:
25.15 Worker’s Right to Refuse Unsafe ItVork:
Should the "Worker’s Right to [Refuse Unsafe Work", under the Occupational Health and Safety Act, be revoked by future legislative changes, (he following procedure will be applicable;
• Upon refusing to work or do p: rticular work, the worker shall promptly report the circumstances of his / her refusal to hi / her Supervisor who shall forthwith investigate the report in the presence of the# worker and, a Health and Safety rQr.rficanratiVe, who shall be made available, ant who shall attend without delay.
• i intii tho inuostination is completed, the worker shall remain in a safe place near his work station.
Where, following the circumstances that caused the worker to has reasonable grounds to believe that , physical condition of the work place that ■
to be likely io endanger himself or another worker, the worker may continue to refust to work
Since Johnson Controls Inc. is committed that no employee be subjectec to working in an environment that presents imminent danger to their safe well being anytime an employee is placed in a position as described above and believes tht company is not living up to this commitment, ha / she may lodge a written Health an<
Safety concern that will be reviewed by the He Plant Manager or his designate within twenty-fo
In the meantime, the employee m job. If a re-assignment is not feasible, the em
Ith & Safety Committee along with thi r hours.
y request to be re-assigned to anothe oyee will be sent home with pay. In
55
such a case, however, it will be with the u> by the Plant Manager, subject to the appro Resource Department, he may not be paid fi
n ferstanding that once a final ruling is made /al of Johnson Controls Inc., Group Human 'or the time not worked.
The Company agrees that all of the above is subject to the Grievance
Procedure.
26.1	The Company will provide for ilbst periods shift and a twenty (20) minute paid lunch ps|riod.
26.2 When overtime is scheduled granted a ten (10) minute rest period at the
more than conclusion
of ten (10) minutes in each half
one (1) hour employees will be of their normal scheduled shift.
ARTICLE 27 — BULLETIN BOARDS
27.1	The Company will make avail Cafeteria and two in the Employees entraiji submit all notices to the Personnel Manager^ such notices. A Trading Post Board will be
liable five (5) bulletin boards, one in each ices for the Union's use. The Union will r his designate for approval prior to posting nade available for the Sales of Articles.
28.1	The Company and the Union igree that the scale of wages for the job classifications in the Bargaining Unit shall be as set out in Section 28.5 - Schedule A.
56
28.2	(a) — Any new Skilled Trades employee hired on or after ihe effective date of the Agreement shall be paid at a rate $.45 pe hour less than the rates in effect on
the employee's date of hire as set out in Se< Agreement, and shall be advanced by $.15 per hi
ion 28 of the Collective Bargaining lur on the 41st calendar date after hire
and by an additional $.30 per hour on the 81st date after hire.
(b) — New employees hired on or afjer the effective date of this Agreement who do not hold a seniority date in the Bar	Unit and are not covered by the
provisions of Subsection (d) below, shall be hires at a rate equal to eighty-five percent (85%) of the maximum base rate of the /oil classification, other than a skilled
classification. Such employees shall receive an
(1) — Ninety percent (90%) classification at the expiration of one hundred ai
automatic increase to:
of the maximum base rate of the job r d eighty (180) days.
(2) — Ninety-five percent (95 classification at the expiration of three hundred
(3) — The maximum bas' expiration of five hundred and forty-five (545) d
i) of the maximum base rate of the job nd sixty-five (365) days.
ei It y:
rate of the job classification at the
Such an employee who is laid off p jior to acquiring seniority and who is reemployed in the Bargaining Unit within one yearlfrom the last day worked prior to layoff shall receive a rate upon re-employment whicl has the same relative position to the maximum base rate of the job classification as h id been attained by the employee prior to layoff. Upon such re-employment, the cr edited rate progression period of the employee's prior period of employment in the Ba gainir g Unit shall be applied toward his rate progression to the maximum base rate of tt e job c lassification. For the purpose of
applying the provisions of Subsections (b). (c),
job classification effective with the
first day worked and will include the subsequen
and (d) only, an employee will receive
days of that pay period.
57
w II
Thereafter, such employee period during which the employee works e: the employee is on layoff. Credit will not any reason, the employee did not work occupational disease compensable under case of the pay period in which the full wee c employee would otherwise have been s< effective at the beginning of the first pay p< number of days of employment.
(c) ■— A laid-off seniority emp Skilled Trades, shall receive a base rate relative position to the maximum base rate
receive credit for seven days for each pay incept that credit will not be given for any days he given for any pay period during which for except in cases of disability for injury or the Workers' Compensation Act and in the of the Christmas Holidays fall, provided the xtheduled to work. Each increase shall be ie|riod following the completion of the required
oyee hired in a job classification other than upon re-employment which has the same of the job classification as had been attained
by the employee prior to layoff from the Bar gaining Unit. Such employee shall continue
to be covered by the rate progression provis
ons in effect during his prior Bargaining Unit
employment. Upon such re-employment, he credited rate progression period of the
employee's prior period of employment in th i rate progression to the maximum base rate
i dat3
(d) — New employees hire)! Agreement, who do not hold a seniority employed and had acquired seniority in the seniority due to being laid off for a contin acquired at the time of such layoff period or total and permanent disability shall receive the same relative position to the maximum been attained by the employee in his prior shall continue to be covered by the rate proi Bargaining Unit employment. Upon such ri period of the employee's prior period of ei applied toward his rate progression to the
Bargaining Unit shall be applied toward his of the job classification.
on or after the effective date of this in the Bargaining Unit but were formerly 3argaining Unit and who had broken such tous period equal to the seniority he had due to having retired for reasons other than base rate upon re-employment which has base rate of the job classification as had gaining Unit employment. Such employee dression provisions in effect during his prior e employment, the credited rate progression ment in the Bargaining Unit shall be aximum base rate of the job classification.
Be r(

(e) — The foregoing Subsectionsfbl classifications covered by the Skilled Trades seen)
through (d) shall not apply to job n <f the Agreement.
28.3	The Company agrees to pay empl Company time for the pay period ending the prev
on Thursday of each week on Us Saturday midnight.
28.4	Employees working on a night shift cents per hour. A night shift shall constitute any hours fall between 5 P,M. and 7 A.M. Nothing heil
all receive an offehift premium of 35 regular shift in which the majority of n shall be construed as entitling any
day shift employee who works overtime betweenjthe said hours to off shift premium in
I	n lL '• ‘I
addition to his overtime pay	|	—1 ___
/ o-erfe 3
28.5	Classifications • Schedule "A" Bsljse Hourly Wage Rates Effective
Classification Assembler
General Maintenance Assembler — Cutting Sewer Stockperson Quality Control Auditor Receiving Inspector Tool Crib Attendant Truck Driver Gerber Operator Transport Driver
Skilled Trades Lift Truck RepairSewing Machine Repair Steel Rule-Die Maker Millwright Tool & Die Maker Electrical Technician Sewing Machine Repair Learner
Leader
59
Assembler Inspectorclassifica Sewer classification. Assembler Inspector Quality Control Auditor classification, paid a
on to be deleted and become pari of the classification duties to be pari of the Quality Control Auditor rate.
be deleted and reclassified as Leader-
The following classifications to Material Handling:
•	Purchased Parts jlardware Leader
•	Rolled GoodsLed ter
•	Stockperson Leac er (Shipper/Receiver)
efficient.
Classifications that are combined
will receive adequate time to become
Employees affected by the pen be given the opportunity to immediately enro I
Upon ratification the classif c Classifications and be paid at a rate of 3“/ understood that the Cutting Room Leader hap
28.6	Should there be an overpayrr (int of wages, the Company must notify employees, in writing, of withdrawing adjust nents within a sixty (60) day period from date of such overpayment. Failure on the becoming null and void.
elimination of non sewing jobs will into the Sewer Training Program.
:ation Leader to include all Leader over highest group they lead. It being no jurisdiction over the Gerber Operator.
Company's part will result in any claim
60
employee for each hour worked. The amount of
at any given time shall be included in computing v ication pay, holiday pay, stand-by pay.
call-in pay, call back pay, bereavement pay, jury c
29.2	The Cost-of-Living Allowance will c Price Index published by Statistics Canada (198 specified in Article 29, Section 3 with one cent change in the Average Index.
ARTICLE 29 — COST-OF-LIVING ALLOWANCE
29.1	The Cost-of-Living Allowance pro 'ided herein shall be paid to each
the Cost-of-Living Allowance in effect
jty pay, and subpoenaed witness pay.
:$ntinue to be based on the Consumer = 100} and adjusted up or down as $.01) adjustment for each .125 point
29.3	Adjustments during the period of t lis Agreement shall be made at the following times:
Effective Date of Adjustment March 17, 1996
First pay period beginning on or after June21, 1996 and at three calendar month intervals thereafter to September 18, 1998.
Basqd Upon Three-Month Average of the Consumer Price Indexes for:
. A[ 1
March, month inti r 1998.
In determining the three month av period, the computed average shall be rounded
29.4	Effective March 17,1996 and for the next ten (10) three-month periods as provided in Article 29, Section 3, the Cost-of-Livi lg Allowance shall be adjusted up or down with a one cent ($0.01) adjustment for ea :h .125 point change in the average index for the appropriate three months over tf 3 provided in Article 29, Section 3.
Decembe 1995, January and February, 1996
and May, 1995 and at three calendar rvals thereafter to June, July and August
srage of the Indexes for a specified the nearest .01 Index Point.
t)
3 previous three month average as
61
29.5 In the event that Statistics Consumer Price Index on or before the begi in Article 29, Section 3, any adjustment in the appropriate Index shall be effective at the begi has been officially published.
Canada does not issue the appropriate ining of one of the pay periods referred to Cost-of-Living Allowance required by such nning of the first pay period after the Index
29,6 No adjustment, retroactive, ore which may later be made in the published fig Consumer Price Index, for any month ormoi Allowance has been determined.
herwise, shall be made due to any revision res used in the calculation of the Canadian ir|)hs on the basis of which the Cost-of-Living
ARTICLE 30 — ENTRY OF PLANT PREIt ISES
30.1 It is specifically agreed that in entry to the plant premises to any Salaried and/or the Corporation.
ARTICLE 31 — INTERPRETATION CLAl SE
31.1 Wherever the feminine or sine Agreement, it shall be taken to include the allows
t e event of a strike the Union will not refuse mployee of Canadian Fabricated Products
(jlar has been used throughout the above masculine or plural where the context so
ARTICLE 32 — SKILLED TRADES
32.1	Seniority inthe skilled trades d trades. Seniority lists shall be by basic trad member elected by the Skilled Trades.
Apartment shall be by non-interchangeable and will be represented by one committee
6d
s i
32.2	(a) — Employees working under Schedule "A" of the Collective Working Agreem in a Skilled Trades classification as of April 3/72 classification. Future employees entering a Skillt shall have date of entry seniority.
lied trades classification contained In <|nt dated April 3/72, shall, if employed have their total seniority in their trade d Trades classification after April 3/72,
(b)	— It is understood that a produflti be given preferential consideration for transfer to of a new hire.
;ion or non-production employee shall ne Skilled Trades department over that
(c)	— Should a production or non-p Trades department he shall be allowed up to which time his qualifications and performance sh fail to show satisfactory qualification or perform; department from which he came on the following
1.	The employee will fill
2.	Failing (1) the em employee.
3.	Failing (2) the employfe' the plant with lesser s
In all the above cases it is neces; performing the job.
32.3	Skilled Tradesmen affected by a permitting, first, a probationary, secondly, the jur the junior employee of another trade providing he is necessary in order to exercise seniority, overt
Should an employee elect not to exi rcise his seniority rights to displace an employee with lesser seniority in the plant, he shall be retained on layoff until such time
r rduction employee transfer to a Skilled £ ghty (80) days worked period during ill be assessed. Should the employee ance he will be returned to the basis:
rn open vacancy should one exist.
[ loyee will displace a probationary
re will displace the junior employee in jniority.
ary that the employee be capable of
syoff may elect to displace, seniority ;or employee of their trade, and thirdly is qualified. If however, a shift change ne will not be paid under Article 21.5.
63
as work he is capable of performing is a seniority. This provision shall not be deeme|f and recall provisions.
iy
32.4 Productionworkers will not ca will skilled trades workers exercise seniority except where a skilled trade classificati employees will then exercise their total pi junior employee in a classification for whict plant seniority in the general production. or affect the status of any employee for the p
seniority into the trades classifications nor into production or non-production groups ^n is discontinued or eliminated. Such it seniority for the purpose of displacing a he is qualified, or shall exercise all of his non-production group. This will in no way rpose of "fringe benefits."
(b) — Whohas served a bonu which substantiates his claim of such servio
(c) — Whohas eight (8) yeai trades classification in which he claims joui A U.A.W./C.A.W. Journeyman's Card will
bo
Employees transferring into the skilled trad filing his request for transfer.
lilable in the plant in accordance with his to modify the specific Skilled Trades layoff
32.5 The term "journeyman/journe^ woman" as used in this Article shall mean any person:
(a) — Whopresently holds jot|r
occupation or
rneyman's classification in a skilled trades
fide apprenticeship and holds a certificate e, or
i s of practical experience in the skilled rieyman's designation and can prove same, accepted as proof
The Company agrees to make available on request to the Skilled Trades Committee Member proof of qualifications of any newly hired skilled trades employee.
!S will provide proof of qualification prior to
6|>
32.6	Any further employment in the skilled trades occupations after signing ol this Agreement shall be limited to journeymenjourneywomen, apprentices and Learner classification.
32.7	During any period when jourrfeymen/ journeywomen are unavailable, it is agreed that non-journeymen employees wt Dse duties shall be to assist journeymen may be hired or re-classified on a temporary I asis to supplement the work force in a skilled trades classification, and shall be known is supplemental employees for present employees and new supplemental employees t >r new hires.
The opportunity to work as a Sup: to other active Skilled Trades personnel if de: seniority employees in Maintenance if deemed a] off Skilled trades employee in order of seniority, present ability or adaptable skills to do the wi seniority who has the present ability or adaptabl be supplemented when that trade has employe: fhe laidoff employees.
|emental Employee shall be offered (1) ted available by the Company, (2) to ailable by the Company, (3) to any laid ) to a seniority employee who has the rk, (5) to any laid off employee with skills to do the work, A trade will not on layoff without offering the work to
In the event of an excessive amount of Supplementation being required, the Company will meet with the Skilled Trades Cnmmitteeperson and outline the need.
When a journeyman / journeywoma considered for hire in a skilled classification to whi: assigned and if hired such journeyman will replace then be laid off or returned to his original depart: not accumulate seniority within the skilled trade: plant-wide seniority and may exercise such plant-job, or to apply for vacancies in the plant as provi
becomes available he / or she will be a supplemental employee has been he supplemental employee who shall nt. A supplemental employee shall classification but shall accumulate ide seniority to return to his former ed elsewhere in the Agreement.
65
Should the need arise for Supjol overtime by employees other than those in Article 12.15 and 12.16 will apply.
ilemental help in the Skilled Trades area on S tilled Trades the procedure as outlined in
Supplemental employees, oth< i ($2.00) per hour below the minimum journ
A journeyman Skilled Trades another trade shall be paid on the basis of pay cf the trade to which he has been assi
Employee who is used to supplement into l s own rate of pay or the maximum rate of i ihed, whichever is the greater.
32.8 Notwithstanding the above pai any employee of production or nonproducti in 32.5(b) or (c) used to supplement the ski of a journeyman in that trade in accordance rate. Such employees shall not accun classification but shall accumulate plant-wid of 32.7.
32.9 Any overtime assignment set supplementation, to skilled trades employdi qualified to perform the work before being ofl|ei in accordance with 32.9(a). The provisiorj Company call in skilled trades employees f <
32.9 (a) — As far as reasonably po among those employees who normally fje
departmental or sectional basis by shift A ter exhausting the section overtime during
the week, the Company will then canvass :h
■r than journeymen, shall receive two dollars j man's rate of the classification or trade.
rpgraph 32.7 during the model change period n possessing the qualifications as outlined ed trades work force shall be paid the rate with Schedule "A1, starting at the minimum lulate seniority within the skilled trades seniority in accordance with the provisions
duled shall first be offered for purpose of es in other trades lowest in overtime and red to employees outside the skilled trades his paragraph shall not require that the
om layoff.
ssible, overtime will be equitably distributed ■form such work in the classification on a
other day shift sections. Overtime records
will be kept up to date by the Company anq posted in the area and / or department on a weekly basis.
66
Overtime on a weekend will be employees who normally perform such work in the or section basis, by shift, giving preference to d
Equalization of overtime shall con-commencing with the senior employees, using thp all overtime worked or offered except in the folic
1.	Overtime offered to other than their own
2.	Overtime offered and hours of the schedule|1
3.	Inventory / cycle chec
4	Premium payments fc	-
mence on January 1st, of each yea 3 procedure of charging and recordinj ving situations:
classification and department nd refused,
refused within twenty-four (24) overtime shift.
< inventory, shift changes.
32.9	(b) — Overtime On Partial I Singl; Shift Operation
When time and circumstance pern individual requests to decline overtime assignm the employees absentee record, where partial o department are scheduled and there are qualified available and willing to work.
(c)	— Afternoon / Midnight Shift
When employees request to be exc time and circumstance permit, employees to su| be requested from the Afternoon Shift, and emplt}yi will Hist be requested from the Midnight Shift.
nc t
(d)	— In the event overtime has in Article 32.9(a), and a complaint has been mad' working days from the alleged violation, the err work the next Dartial overtime or overtime on a w
equitably distributed among thosi classification on a departmental basis y shift employees first.
it, the Company is willing to considei lints offered with no notation made or lerations or single shift of a multi-shif people who normally perform the worl
Supplementation
used from overtime assignments, anc ipjjlement on Day Shift overtime will firs ees to supplement on Afternoon Shif
been equitably distributed as set ou by an employee within five (5) norma jloyee will be given an opportunity tc ;ekend within the thirtv f301 dav Derioc
67
following the complaint providing the complai and the employee can satisfactorily perfoi complaint has been filed by an employee offered additional overtime in accordance wi the appropriate rate.
i(it is legitimate, there is overtime available, the required function. If a legitimate was-by-passed for overtime and not h Article 32.0(d), payment will be made at
32,10	In the event of an increase 0' classification except Sewing Machine Refji procedure shall apply:
(a)	— First new hire supplemejn* probationary journeymen will be laid off from
decrease in force in any skilled trades air and Lift Truck Repair the following
ital, second plant supplemental and third their skilled trades classification.
(b)	— If any further employe classification. such employees will be laid off from such skilled trades classification.
are to be reduced from any skilled f or transferred in order of their seniority
(c)	— Employees affected by above may - bump other employees in anot qualified. Recalls shall be made according
(d)	— Sewing Machine Repa affected by a layoff or cut back will exercis employee inthe plant, subjecttothe provisr
Upon recall to Sewing Maul classifications, employees affected by a la; classification.
layoff or cut back as stated in (a) or (b) trades classification for which they are tp seniority within the classification.
r and/or Lift Truck Repair classification 3 their plant seniority to displace a junior idns of Article 13,
hine Repair and/or Lift Truck Repair or cutback will return to their previous
'Y off
Test Resultswill be madeavaila
bleto the Skilled Tfades Committee person
68
and the employee.
32.11	Should a skilled trades employee in another trade as listed under the skilled trade: transferred from his present classification into ; shall retain seniority in his former classification fo he will forfeit his seniority rights in his former of entry. This transfer shall not apply to layoff c
[Jossessing journeyman's qualifications appendices request a transfer and be lother skilled trades classification, he ninety (90) calendar days, after which led trades classification from the date recall and is limited to once yearly.
32.12	Any employee of skilled trades who by reason of advanced age or physical disability is unable to perform the work in their 13gular classification shall be given the opportunity to:
(a)	— Displace an employee with classification which he is capable of performing
ess seniority in another skilled trades
(b)	— Failing (a) such employee t hall be permitted to exercise his total plant seniority into a production or nonproductior job which he is capable of performing if such job is available. If no such job is available he shall remain on medical leave until such a job becomes available.
When the employee is physically trades classification he shall return with his tota
32.13	The Company agrees that instruct Supervision. In the absence of such supervisioi may issue instructions. In an obvious emergr employee.
32.14	Work performed by the Compar employees who are covered by classifications appended to this agreement between the Comp if any employee of skilled trades cannot be occi
able to return to his previous skilled accumulated seniority.
jns will be given only by Maintenance it is agreed that any other Supervisor ncy instructions may be given by an
/'s Skilled Trades shall be done by and rates as outlined in Schedule "A" ny and the Union. It is understood that ied at his trade for a period of 8 hours
69
per day it is agreed that such employee sha trades classification until such time as work further understood that any emergency situati by any skilled tradesperson. provided he / s safely and competently
32.15	The Company will make availabl including pneumatics and hydraulics inorde facilities maintained by the skilled trades em
I and II, for electricians will be provided.
32.16	If an emergency anses requirini a rest or lunch period, these employees wil earliest possible time.
32.17	All sections of this Agreemer Trades except to the extent that if an interpre this section and the rest of the Agreement, th prevail.
32.18	The Learner Program inthe Sewing Machine Repair classification shall be subject lo the following:
(a) — The classification shall be
(b) — The Learner program sh
(c)	— The classification of Learner will be posted in accordance with the job posting procedure Article 12, Section12.1 and Section 12.2 and Section 12.3(a) with the exception that the resultant vacancies w| II be posted on a temporary basis for the first eighty (80) working days.
I be permitted to work in any other skilled in his own classification is available. It is in during productionhours may be handled e is able to perform the required function
e the necessary training for newtechnology ■ to properly service plant equipment and loyees. In addition PLC's training, Levels
skilled trades employees to work through receive the lost rest or lunch period the
shall apply to employees in the Skilled tative conflict anses between the terms of o specific term or terms of this section shall
known as Sewing Machine Repair Learner,
ill be a period of twenty four (24) months.
70
Should a learner fail performance at any t days, he will return from which he came
Should a learner fail performance at any t he will displace the j seniority
When a learnercomp the resultant vacancie basis.
to show satisfactory qualifications or ne during the first eighty (80) working the classification in the department
to show satisfactory qualifications or ne after the eighty (80) working days ilnor employee in the plant with lesser
tes the eighty (80) working day period swill then be posted on a permanent
32.19	Employees transferred into the L sarner classification shall retain and accumulate seniority in the classification from v hich they were transferred. Seniority shall not be established in the Learner classifies ion for a period of eighty (80) working days. Providing employees acquire at least ei jhty (80) working days service in the classification within eighteen (18) months from reduced and recalled to the classification based
32.20	No employee classified Sewing M Learner is retained at work.
32.21	Upon completing the required tw classification, an employee shall be reclassifiec classification assigned.
32.22	Employees hired or transferred into credit for the twenty-four (24) month period
the date first assigned; they shall be on the date they were first assigned.
jehine repair shall be laid off while a
nty-four (24) months in the Learner and his rate shall be the rate of the
the Learner classification shall be given
71
32.23	An employee hired or transfer! receive a rate of two dollars ($2.00) p^r classification.
.dv.
32.24	An employees’ rate shall be ai months through the twenty-four (24) month Section 32.21 above he will receive the rate
32.25	In applying the applicable provi i ions of Section 32,21 and32.24 above, the
any intervening complete payroll periods during which the employee performed now rk in the classification.
rred into the Learner classification shall hour below the minimum rate of the
anced fifteen cents per hour every two (2) ijieriod and when reclassified as provided in of the classification.
32.26	A committee of five (5), three f will be set up to review the progress of Lear meet within the first forty (40) working days just prior to the completion of the first eighty being made and make recommendations program or should be removed, with m necessary.
om the Company and two from the Union, rers on the program. The Committee shall of an employee entering the program and (80) working days to assess the progress to whether the employee remains on the making the final decision, if
The Committee shall be made one sewing machine repair, who will be representativesshall be the Manager of the and the MaintenanceSupervisor or their des eighty (80) day period, thereafter the Commi time as the employees complete the progra attend all meetings. A written report will t
of the Skilled Trades Committeeperson, appointed by the Union, the Company department, a Maintenance Superintendent gnates. After the initial meetings in the first tee will meet on a quarterly basis until such m. It is understood that the Learner shall e given to the Plant Chairperson, Skilled

32.27 Skilled Trades Tools
(a)	— Metric Tools
Other than the tools a tradesman Is personally required to provide, the Company will maintain the necessary tools in thi Crib tor the use of Tradesmen.
(b)	— Theft of Tools
In the event of a theft of a Tradesman’s personal tools, they will be
replaced upon verification by the Maintenance S
jperintendent.
tradesman's personal tools which are
(c)	— Broken or Worn Tools
The Company agrees to replace a I broken or worn during the course of employmer t. Such broken or worn tool must be presented for exchange.
Each tradesman must provide to
verification and replacement value a list of curre it tools in his possession
Reverification of the tools may be m when he deems it necessary.
32.28 Pneumatic Attachments to Sewii g
Pneumatic attachments to sewing r lachines will be installed by Millwrights initially and maintained by Sewing Machine Rep ir.
Skilled Trades Department will c mtinue the practice of changing the brushes on the power scrubber.
the Maintenance Superintendent for
future conditions change whereby the
32.29 Apprenticeship Programme
The Company acknowledges that_i need for an Apprenticeship program anses.the ffcnmnanv and the t ininn would mppt tn
negotiate introduction of such a program.
de by the Maintenance Superintendent
g Machines
t/
73
32.30 The Company agrees to ded	the annual Skilled Trades Council dues
during the month of January each year, 01 hires, or on the return to work, if not | employees covered by the Agreement.	(forty) hours employment for new checked off, for Skilled Trades of all dues shall be made in
accordancewith the provision of Article 4 ■	nion Security and Check-off.
ARTICLE 33 — AUTOMATIC SHORT W	:K BENEFITPLAN
SECTION 1. Continuation and Amendment cf the Pli (a) — The Company shall cor	to maintain the Automatic Short Week
Benefit Plan (herein referred to as the "PI	which is attached as Exhibit C to this
Collective BargainingAgreement dated Deo	The Plan as amended shall
becomeeffective as of January 14, 1998 si required rulings referred to in Section4 of I of Section 4 of this Article, it shall read the Short Wfeek Benefit Plan," attached hereto.	to the receipt by the Company of any 3 Article, so that, subject to the provisions as set forth in "Exhibit C Automatic
(b) — The Company shall i	the Plan for the duration of this
Agreement, except as otherwise provided i	and subject to the terms of the Plan.
SECTION 2. Obligations During Term of the Collective Bargaining Agreement During the term of the Coll Company nor the Union shall request any Plan or this Article, or be required to I interpretation of the Plan or this Article; an	Bargaining Agreement, neither the in, deletion from or addition to the with respect to any provision or juring such period no change in, deletion
from or addition to any provision, or interpri objective of, or a reason or cause for an] limitation, any strike, slowdown, work stopp economic force, or threat thereof, by the U	of the Plan or this Article shall be an or failure to act, including, without lock-out, picketing or other exercise of in or the ComDanv.
SECTION 3.
Effective of Termination of the Collective Bargaining Agreement
Anything herein which might be cohltrued to the contrary notwithstanding, it is understood that termination of the Collective the effect of automatically terminating the Plan,
SECTION 4,
Governmental Rulings
(a)	— The amendment of the Plan Article and incorporated in Exhibit C to the Col subject to receipt by the Company from the Min^|t satisfactory to the Company, that may be requin to the Minister of National Revenue
(b)	— The Company shall apply prc section A of this Section.
Bargaining Agreement shall not have
which is provided in Section 1 of this III ctive Bargaining Agreement shall be er of National Revenue of any ruling, <fd holding that the Plan is acceptable
nptly for the rulings described in sub-
(c)	— Notwithstanding any other prc vision of this Article or of the Plan, the
ing the term of this Agreement, make poses, structure and basic provisions
Company, with the consent of the Union may, du i revisions in the Plan not inconsistent with the pu | thereof which shall be necessary to obtain or me ntain any of the rulings referred to in this Section or in the Plan Any such revisions sh ill adhere as closely as possible to the language and intent of the Plan
ARTICLE 34 — INJURY AT WORK
bn
34.1 An employee injured at work shall shift (including overtime) on which the injury occ employee requires medical treatment as defined
paid for the balance of his scheduled if. as a result of such injury the the Workers' Compensation Act.
75
ARTICLE 35 - GENERAL ARTICLE
The Union recognizes the resf BargainingAgentofthe Unit,and realizesths for continuing employment, good working i must be in a strong market position. The Ur with the Company and support its efforts to of its members and to strengthen good-will t and the public
.	__This Agreement shall becomei
in full force and effect until 11:59 Pf automatically renewed from year to year uni writing to the other party of the desire to te such notice to be given not earlier than sixty the annual termination date If such notice shall begin within ten days following such ni
In witness thereof, the parties I January 14, 1996 at the City of Stratford int
National Automobile, Aerospace and Agricultural Implement Workers Union of Canada, [CAW-Canada)________________
Hemi Mitic Craig Grant Don Major Larry Williams Robert Weyers Barbara Tigani Susan Danner Linda Howie Sharon Lupion Rod Lovell
isibility imposed upon it as the exclusive n order to provide maximum opportunities iditions and good wages, the Company n, therefore, agrees that it will co-operate sure a reasonable day's work on the part :weenemployer, employee, the customer
ective as or December 16,1995 and shall Dec 15, 199B_ and thereafter, itshall be s i n any year, either party gives notice in ninate, revise or amend this Agreement, ays and not later than thirty days prior to given, negotiations between the parties ce
reto have executed this Agreement as of i County of Perth, to be effective January
Johnson Controls, Inc.
Automotive Systems Group Canadian Fabricated Products Ltd.
Bill Powers Jim Mallon Marshall Crinklaw Ken Bovaird Glen Brown Cathy Horzempa
ARTICLE 37 — GROUP INSURANCE
AND GROUP HEALTH CARE I
GENERAL PROVISIONS AND I____________
Establishment of the Programs
Canadian Fabricated Products, hereinafter referred to as the Company, and the National Automobile, Aerospace and Agrici Itural Implement Workers Union of Canada (CAW) and its Local No. 1325, hereinafter referred to as the Union, have agreed on a Group Health Care Benefits Program, at hereto as Exhibit A and a Group Insurance Program, attached hereto as Exhibit B; nd to provide benefits to hourly rated employees of the Company through the purcha re of group insurance policies, self-
insurance funds or by arrangement with group
insurance carriers, The method of
providing benefits shall be at the sole option of th i Company unless such is mandated by Provincial or Federal Law. The Company will be responsible for the administration of the Programs which include enrollment of em Moyees, distribution of certificates of insurance, if applicable, accepting cash contributpns where appropriate, issuing claim forms and processing claims. Benefits provided b ' Governmental Units or Agencies will be part of these Programs and in lieu of similar b jnefits provided herein.
Company will pay the administration ilth care benefits coverages contained
Financing
During the Term of this Agreement, the expenses of providing the group insurance and hea in the Programs and will receive and retain any dividends, divisible surplus, interest or any other refunds from any insurance carrier, governmental unit or agency or other provider. In addition, the Company will continue certain group insurance and health care benefits coverages as described elsewhere in these Programs, during periods of layoff or leave of absence and where applicable, receive cash contributions from applicable employees in advance of the month for which toverage is sought. The Company, however, will not assume any responsibility or lia jility which may result from the failure of an employee eligible to continue certain cqyerages to make the required cash paymentwhen due.
77
Letter #1
Bargaining Committee:
2(4 Funding For Education Purposes
As a part of the 1992 nego December21, 1992, itwould accrue two (2 period) for which employees in the barga educational purposes. Such accrued amo1 into a trust fund established by the Natic headquarters.
ions the Company agreed that effective >nts for each hour (excluding any vacation g unit are compensated, to be used for > shall be paid at the end of each quarter Union CAW, Canadian Region at their
Upon written application at selected by the Union shall be granted Company for a period not to exceed, in an time plus travel time where necessary. Sui selected to benefit from the educational pri fund referred to above and will be limitec particular program.
rst four weeks in advance, employees eave of absence without pay from the reive (12) months, twenty (20) days class save shall be available only to employees im funded wholly or in part from the trust four employees at any one time in this
Employees granted such leavi and benefits during such leave.
f absence will continue to accrue seniority
Yours truly,
K. J. Bovaird Personnel Manager
Letter #2
Bargaining Committee:
Job Movement
)
It was agreed that job rotation is a A joint Committee will meet to review any case The goal of this process will be to obtain immed on more difficult operations
isired goal for both parties to achieve hich particularly merits consideration e relief for those who are continuouslv
iurs truly,
J. Bovaird irsonnel Manager
79
Letter#3
Bargaining Committee:
Holiday Pay- Temporary Layoff
A seniority employee wno is fourth work week prior to a week in which holiday period falls, and who worked the to such layoff, shall, if otherwise eligible, re Christmas holiday period. A seniority emp o' seventh work week prior to a week in which holiday period falls and who worked the enr such layoff shall, if otherwise eligible, reci during such Christmas holiday period. An ei for such holidays following the employee's indefinitely laid off shall receive pay for so the Christmas holiday period. Should any following the Christmas holiday period, he i he worked the last scheduled shift Prior to
:emporarily or indefinitely laid off during the me or more of the holidays in the Christmas employee's last scheduled working day prior reive pay for the holidays falling during such iyee who is laid off during the fifth, sixth or one or more of the holidays in the Christmas ployee's last scheduled working day prior to (live pay for one-half of the holidays falling mployee temporarily laid off shall receive pay n iturn to work from such layoff. An employee holidays on the second payday following e mployee be placed on layoff on the first day v ill quality for the series of holidays provided the Christmas holiday period.
Very truly yours,
K. J. Bovaird Personnel Manager
fid
Letter #4
Bargaining Committee:
Transport Driver(1/2) Hour Paid Lunch
As agreed upon during negotiate ns, in the event the classification of transport driver has to perform the function of th 3 job < utside the city limits of Stratford during his normal lunch period, he will receive 1 half IQ) hour paid lunch at straight time. Also abnormal expense incurred as a reSPlt of ii clement weather or mechanical break down will be reimbursed upon receipts being pn sented to the Company.
lours truly,
. J. Bovaird ersonnel Manager
81
Letter #5
Bargaining Committee:
Substance Abuse
The Company and Unionrecoc and further agree to enlarge the program in employees
ize the problem of SubstanceAbuse abuse e areas of education and awareness to its
The present committee of one appoir Company will continue ta work together to problem.
the Union and one appointed by the employees with a Substance Abuse
Yours truly,
K. J. Bovaird Personnel Manager
Letter #6
Bargaining Committee
Swipe Badge
As agreed during negotiations emp yees will be docked six (6) minutes for each failure to swipe their card. Employeeswill be docked for the first calendar day occurrence in any week.
urs truly,
J.	Bovaird
man Resources Manager
83
Letter #7
Bargaining Committee
During our recent negotiation Management that it was highly desirable Accident or Workers' Compensation, be reti
: it was agreed by both the Union and at Employees absent due to Sickness & ilmed to work as soon as possible.
It was further agreed that both physical and medical restrictions.
parties would work to this end, recognizing
In order to assist the established must present to the Personnel Office, m restrictions and medical restriction letters mi a permanent disability is established and ai
joint Placement Committee, employees ^dical documentation outlining all medical st be up-dated on a monthly basis, unless cfcepted by the Company.
The Company will meet peri Placement Committee to review the statu: Restrictions
jdically with the Union members of the of employees on benefits with Medical
It may be necessary for the ertplovee to attend such meeting
Permanent/Lona Term Disability:
Should an employee, with a permanent or long term disability, return to work with Medical Restrictions and be rec jired to work in another department, the
employee will retain Surplus/Recall rights u for a period of twelve (12) months. At an\
should transfers to other departments be required due to additional medical problems
the employee will exercise his seniority und be assigned permanently to the department the end of the twelve (12) month period
der the terms of the Collective Agreement time during the twelve (12) month period
Ir the surplus language. An employee will and classification in which he is located at
Shnrt Term Disability
■rt term disability, the Company will ient/Classification that will meet their en (15)working days and the disabled department. The Plant Chairperson, should this situation anse. Employees nporary transfers or partial overtime
assignments.
Should an employee suffer a ; endeavour to place the employee in a Depa medical restrictions for a period not to exceed f ft worker will not displace an employee in th; President, and Committeeperson will be notifie c on short term disability will be ineligible for :i
urs truly,
J. Bovaird rsonnel Manager
85
Letter# 8
Bargaining Committee
Fjay
During our recent negotiations shortage greater than four (4) hours the Coi same pay day, providing a complaint is ma^
it was agreed that should there be a pay npany will make a pay adjustment on the sto the Company prior to 1:00 P.M.
Yours truly,
K.	J. Bovaird Personnel Manager
Letter #9
Bargaining Committee
In Plant Lighting and Fans
As agreed during negotiations, thi ompany will ensure adequate lighting is provided in the plant and all fans will be revit d and in working order by April 1st of each year.
jrs truly,
. Bovaird lonnel Manager
87
Letter #10
Bargaining Committee
Distribution of Literature
During the 1983 negotiations^ e Company agreed to continue its practice of allowing CAW. Local 1325 to distribut3 non-political literature at the Employee entrance and will allow such distribution insit e the Employee entrance during inclement weather.
Yours truly,
K. J, Bovaird Personnel Manager
Letter #11
Bargaining Committee
Warehouse (City of Stratford)
The Company agreed during production material be located and used in a i in the City of Stratford that the said work members
Y|urs truly
£
J Bovaird rr.onnel Manager
89
Letter#12
Bargaining Committee
Duringthe 1983 Negotiations work is requiredthe Companywill notcont permits and employees have the necessai
Should work be contracted in i the In-Plant Committee will be notified.
Contracting- MaintenanceVWork
! Company agreed that when Maintenance :t work in or out of the plant providingtime ability to perform the required work.
out (otherthan current accepted practice), Yours truly,
K. J. Bovaird Personnel Manager
Letter #13
Bargaining Committee
Vacation Scheduling
During negotiations considerableais and the Company over the many problems resul1 order to maximize the use of vacation time d1 employees it is the Company's intention to sche
took place betweenthe Union g from early vacation scheduling. In ring periods more advantageous to ule vacation shutdown periods after
Should assembly plant requirements schedule, the National C.A.W. and the Local Unid
in any way cause a deviation from this will be so advised by the Company.
The Company will advise employees f Assembly Plant Vacation Schedules when they become aware of them. It should be u Iderstood, however, that these are not necessarily final and are subject to change
This assurance should work towards planning of their vacation schedules during prime
Yc
accommodating employees inthe pretime.
jrs truly.
K.IU. Bovaird
Human Resources Manager
91
Letter #14
Bargaining Committee:
Harassment
During our recent representatives agreed that there is in any form.
It was further agreed by both parties that the offended party must make it known to the harasser, that the harasser's actions are not wanted and must cease immediately.
Management and Union no plao! in the work environment for harassment
Should there be further harassment a complaint may be raised with the Union and/or Company.
Following such a complaint, a time with the Personnel Manager / Designate harasser to bring the problem to an immod
eeting must be held at the earliest possible Plant Chairperson / Designate, victim and te resolution.
Yours truly,
K. J. Bovaird Personnel Manager
Lette r # 15
Bargaining Committee
New Hire Introduction
During our recent discussion the rr would be allotted a period cf time not to exi introductionto the Chairperson or his designate.
inagement agreed that any new hire tfeed 15 minutes for the purpose oi
The introductionis to take place ( at a location mutually agreeable to both Unic shift.
Y
truly,
93
Letter #16
Bargaining Committee
20 Funding-Child Care
Duringthe 1983 Collective Bargaining negotiations, the Union discussed at great length the need for adequate care facilities in Strafford for children of employees.
the
The Company advised the Unic need for such services, its limited financial funding for such programmes. However, Union in approaching the appropriate govei facilities be establishedin Stratford and to co' government as conditions precedent to the
n that, while it recognizedthe employee's esources did not permit it to provide full Company agreed to participatewith the bodies to request that child care -operatefully inany studies requiredby the establishmentof such programme.
If. in the future, a child care progi government funding cr otherwise, and the Un the Company will, upon request of the Nation; hour, effective December16, 1984, to be us; Fabricated Products employees in that progrdi child care programme, the $0.02 percompen;
ramme is established in Strafford, through on electsto participatein such programme idil Union, contribute $0.02 per compensated ed toward funding of services for Canadian mime. If it is decided not to implement the isated hour will be utilized as the parties
Yours truly,
K. J. Bovaird Personnel Manager
94
Letter #17
Bargaining Committee
Environmental Committee
The Company agrees to estab consisting of two (2) hourly employees and tv agreed that environmental issues and statis Products are to be held confidential if SO reque
a Joint Environmental Committee .2) salaried employees. The parties pertaining to Canadian Fabricated ■d.
The Committee shall meet three times annually at mutually agreeable times and place to review and discuss Issues i living the environment, recycling and energy conservation which pertain to Canadiar rbricated Products employees.
trs truly,
I. Bovaird
nan Resources Manager
95
Letter #18
Bargaining Committee:
Job Assignment Practices
During the 1995 negotiation: discussion pertaining to job assignment pr
The parties acknowledged the comp flexibility to fully utilize the skills and expert levels of product quality and the efficiency I that under normal circumstances this di employees performing a regular assignme
the Union and Company had considerable dices.
importance of Managementhaving the ice of its employees to maintainthe highest its operations and to that end acknowledge result is best achieved by qualified
The Union recognizes the Company and other production requirements, to r maintain desired levels of quality and Opel
Section Movement:
Should employees be required in a from the surplus dassification(s) fro be given the opportunity, in line ol section providing the employe! immediately perform the function junior employees from the surplus section
need for and right, becauseof absenteeism manpower within classification to efficiency.
other section, the senior employees the section on the required shift will to transfer to the required have the necessary ability to no senior employees transfer, must relocate to the required
Module Movement Within A Section:
Should employees be required in same sefction, the senior employees from the surplus classification(s) from a moduli within a section on the required shift will be given the opportunity, in lim of seniority, to transfer to the required module, providing the employe|s have the necessary ability to
immediately perform the function. Shoul junior employees from the surplus modult
shift, must relocate to the required modul s, within the section.
The Company assured the Union that it doe assignment of employees for retaliatory reasc measure or for purposes of harassment. The supervisory training sessions to be held after ra*
K
no senior employees transfer, within a section on the required
not condone nor will it permit the n's, out of favouritism, as a punitive mpany will reaffirm its position during ifification of the Agreement.
C 31
truly,
J. Bovaird
Bh-sonnel Manager
97
Letter#19
Bargaining Committee
Union Dues Deductions For Retirees
During recent negotiations the Tompany agreed to deduct monthly Union dues from Retirees authorized by the constiUion cf the Union. Union dues deductions will be identified on Retirees T4 slips
Very truly yours,
K. J. Bovaird
Personnel Manager
Letter #20
Bargaining Committe
lifications and Testing For Vacancies
Duringthe 1989 negotiationsthen as considerable discussion regarding the qualifications and testing for vacancies in plant. It was agreed that the Plant Committee will be permittedto reviewalltest ib ts. Itwas further agreedthat tests will be relevant to the classification in question.
jrs truly,
J. Bovaird sonnel Manager
99
Letter#21
Bargaining Committee
Leader • Exercise Seniority
During the 1989 negotiations it the past practice in which the classification seniority from one departmentto another d<
ras agreed that the Companywill continue f Leader will not be permitted to exercise tartment under Articles 13 and 14.
Yours truly,
K. J. Bovaird
Personnel Manager
Letter #22
Bargaining Committee
Shift Changes for Personal Reasons
During the 1989 Negotiations con employee requests to change shifts for personal
iderable discussion was held regarding reasons.
The Company agrees to consider request is made to the Personnel Department a will occur.
requests to change shifts providing the id that minimal disruption of production
ours truly,
H. J. Bovaird
Manager
101
Letter #23
Bargaining Committee
Lift Truck Operation — Trades
Within trades work, a qualified ■ purpose of elevating the same trade during no employee from the trade be available, operate the Lift Truck In the event there is with General Maintenance duties when on
esperson will operate Lift Trucks for the both normal hours and overtime Should n employee from Material Handling will me available, Material Handlingwill assist time
'ours truly,
L J. Bovaird ’ersonnel Manager
Letter #24
Bargaining Committee
and Plant Exit Doors
During the 1992 Negotiations it w; to be permitted to use the top/bottom doo s o Entrance/Exit,
s agreed that employees will continue the main shipping dock ramp as an
Inaddition louvred screens will	e Emergency Exit doors and
the doors will remain closed.
Yburs truly,
J. Bovaird Personnel Manager
103
Letter #25
Bargaining Committee
Reinstated Grievances
During the 1989 negotiations, t ■ e parties acknowledged the desirability of ensuring prompt, fair and final resolution o: employee grievances. The parties also recognized that the maintenance of a sta )le, effective and dependable grievance procedure is necessary to implement the foregoing principle to which they both
subscribe. Accordingly, the parties view an disposed of as contrary to the purpose
attempt to reinstate a grievance properly or which the grievance procedure was
established and violative of the fundamental principles of collective bargaining.
However, in those instances wl either its (i) Executive Board, (ii) Public Rev Appeals Committee has reviewed the dispcsi disposition was improperly effected by the Ui ii National Union may inform the Manager S grievance is reinstated in the grievance p disposition of the grievance occurred.
here the National Union (CAW-Canada), by ew Board or (iii) Constitutional Convention ition of a grievance and found that such ion or a Union representative involved, the Staff Labour Relations in writing that such r jcedure at the step at which the original
af oi
It is agreed, however, that the for damages, including back pay claims, ari already barred underthe provisions of the reinstatement of the grievance or (ii) that ri original disposition and the time of the rein’ agreed that the reinstatement of any such gr agreement of the Union and the employee oi thereafter pursue such claims for damage^ procedure, or in any court or before any Feqi
orporation will not be liable for any claims iing out of the grievance that either (i) are rementioned Agreement at the time of the elate to the period between the time of the tatement as provided herein. It is further evance shall be conditioned uponthe prior employees involved that none of them will against the Corporation in the grievance eral, provincial, or municipal agency.
1(l4
Notwithstanding the foregoing, a d the Appeal Board or any other arbitrator on any c binding on the Union and its members, the etni Corporation and such grievance shall not be sub
^cision of the Impartial Chairperson of ievance shall continue to be final and pjoyee or employees involved and the ect to reinstatement.
This letter is not to be construed as or obligations of the parties under the terms of as specifically limited herein, and does not affec liability or limit the payment or retroactivity of any or that provide for the final and binding nature o grievance resolutions.
modifying in any way either the rights tjie aforementioned Agreement except sections thereof that cancel financial :laim, including claims for back wages, any Appeal Board decisions or other
It is understood this letter of agreei to reinstate grievances as provided herein can bi (30) days notice in writing to the other.
rfient and the Corporation's obligations terminated by either party upon thirty
Y< iurs truly,
J. Bovaird Personnel Manager
105
Letter#26
Bargaining Committee
Redundant Departments
Should the level of manpowei redundancy situation, the Company will advi; i redundant; applicable employees will assunj'
decrease to a significant level to cause a e the Union as to the departments declared e new departmental seniority.
Yours truly,
K. J. Bovaird
Personnel Manager
Letter #27
Bargaining Committee
Tuition Refund
The Company offers and administer! a tuition refund program under which employees will, under such terms and conditions as the Company may from time to time establish, receive a tuition refund not to exceed an ,000 a calendar year ($1,500 for the calendar year for approved courses taken at an Epcredited college) upon completion of an approved job-related course at an approved e lucational or training institution during non-working hours while on the active roll of thi Company, Any refund made to an eligible employee will relate to the calendar year or courses.
nf completion of the approved course
The following programs are considi when the needs cannot be met within the Comp;
a.	— Courses which will improvt employee's present job. This indue employees in the technology of the ■
b.	— Courses which relate to development of an employee's can
c.	— Courses which prepare an expected to occur in the future and qualified employees are not available
red job related and will be approved ny:
the employee's skill on the es courses designed to update trade or occupation.
the next job in the logical er.
i mployee for openings that are for which a sufficient number of
107
d. — Courses taken to complete the requirements for a grammar school certificate or high schot I diploma.
e. — Any literacy courses or mathematics, These include sixth grade competency in rearjli
:oursos in fundamental reading and courses usually designed to teach ing, writing and numerical skills.
f. — Courses that are part accredited educational instituticji an Associate Degree or Bachei
at approved educational insi
of the regular curriculum of an n taken for degree credit leading to or's Degree in Labour Studies.
g. — Courses in industrial hyg'ene or safety related courses taken
; itutions by the appointed Union
members of the Local Committ se on Health and Safety.
h. — Any required or pertinenl seeking program in a field appropriate to the employee' Products.
t elective courses taken in a degree-to the employee's job or career in Canadian Fabricated
Any Arbitrator shall have no j jrisdiction over any matter involving the establishment, administration or term? and provisions of such a tuition refum
program.
Yours truly,
K. J. Bovaird Personnel Manager
108
Letter #28
Bargaining Committee
Self Directed Workforce
In order to continually remain comp Management will continue to seek new and Ini
It is recognized that these approach restricted to such items as, product redesign, cellu Awareness and employee involvement with th self directed workforce, making full use of all the
It is agreed that all steps taken consultation with the Union Committee and by
titive it is agreed that both Union and tive approaches to manufacturing.
es will cover but not necessarily be ar manufacturing concepts, Employee get being a totally participative and alents available to the company.
lis direction will only be taken after ual agreement.
Yours truly,
K. J. Bovaird Personnel Manager
109
Letter #29
BargainingCommittee:
DISDUte Resolution
the term of this agreement, as part of the Continuous
ImprovementProcess.
Yours truly,
K. J. Bovaird
PersonnelManager
Letter #30
Bargaining Committee
acting Out of Lift Truck Maintenance
Once the incumbents vacate this ssification it is understood that ifthe Company deems it necessary, all Lift Truck nfiE ;nance will be performed by outside contractors.
Yours truly,
K. J, Bovaird Personnel Manager
111
Letter #31
Bargaining Committee:
Sewing Machine Connect / Disconnect
During the recent negotiations and the Union regarding floor level connect
tiscussion took place between the Company / disconnect of electrical cords and air hoses.
It was agreed that within the t responsible for the connection / disconnect hoses, providing no new installations perforpied.
ades, any qualified tradesperson would be ;tion of floor level electrical cords and air
K. J. Bovaird Personnel Manager
Letter #32
Bargaining Committee
Compressor Start-up
Duringthe recent negotiations dis siontook place between the Company and the Union regarding starting the Compres
Itwas agreed that, within trades v < any qualified tradesperson would be responsible for starting the Compressor, when*	r the work load demands only a select
number of trades persons.
Yours truly,
K. J. Bovaird Personnel Manager
113
Letter #3 3
Bargaining Committee:
Cleaning Work Area
All Main Sew employees will t isponsible for cleaning i ntheir Sew Cells.
Yours truly,
K. J. Bovaird Personnel Manager
Letter #34
Bargaining Committee:
Measurements For Statistical Purposes
Yours truly,
K. J. Bovaird Personnel Manager
115